I
FUTURE INSIDE
BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2018SHARED 
VALUE  
12 Our Role 14 CEO Interview
16 Locations & Business Units  
17 Results 18 EHS 19 Governance
BUSINESS  
VALUE
24 Business Highlights 26 Automotive
28 Aerospace 30 Packaging 32 Defense
33 Transportation 34 Industry
SUSTAINABLE  
VALUE
36 Sustainability Targets 37 UN SDGs  
38 Materiality Assessment 40 Sustainability Highlights  
42 Recycling Rates 43 Customer Satisfaction 
44 Safety Records 45 People 46 Communities  
47 Landfill Waste 48 Energy Efficiency  
49 Aluminium Stewardship Initiative  
50 Sustainable Purchasing  
51 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
PERFORMANCE
53 Financial Statements
57 Sustainability Performance  65 GRI2
Our role is to create value throughout the life cycle of 
aluminium. We are committed to improving the overall 
footprint of aluminium’s life cycle and to creating value 
for customers, employees, suppliers, and society. 
1  
EXTRACTING, REFINING, 
SMELTING
With our suppliers, we have 
developed our own responsible 
purchasing policyLIFE CYCLE
OF ALUMINIUM2  
CASTING, ROLLING,  
AND EXTRUSION
We work hard 
to mitigate the 
potential impact  
of our operations3  
MANUFACTURING  
AND PRODUCT DESIGN
Our R&D and production 
teams work with our clients 
to leverage aluminium’s 
inherent advantages, 
including lightness, 
flexibility, durability,  
and recyclability
4 
PRODUCT USE
For end users, we 
provide a large range 
of applications that 
enhance products 
and improve lifestyles 5  
COLLECTING AND SORTING
With our clients, we have rigorous 
processes in place to collect and sort 
production scrap to retain its value6  
RECYCLING
We recycle both 
process and 
end-of-life scrap3
Aluminium is valuable at every stage of its life cycle, from production to end of use. It can be endlessly recycled 
and keeps its material properties. Using recycled aluminium reduces the need for primary aluminium and therefore 
minimizes waste, avoids resource depletion, and lowers greenhouse gas emissions across a product’s life cycle.
Constellium is an industry leader in the sustainable production and recycling of aluminium products. We embrace 
sustainability and work with our suppliers and partners to improve the footprint of the aluminium life cycle 
throughout the value chain.Inside  
Aluminium
5% 
Recycling aluminium 
requires only about 5% 
of the energy needed to 
produce it from bauxite75% 
of the aluminium produced 
since its discovery is still 
in use today
100% 
Aluminium  
is 100% 
recyclable  
with no 
deterioration  
in quality4 5
Aluminium is the material of choice to address one of the key challenges of the automotive industry,  
lightweighting. Our solutions help global automotive manufacturers to produce lighter, safer, and more  
fuel-efficient vehicles, as well as electric vehicles with greater range. Material lightweighting reduces  
CO2 emissions over the life cycle of the car, ensuring a more sustainable future for the industry.Green in  
the Hood
* Source: Constellium Aluminium for Auto Body Sheet – Life Cycle Assessment – based on a third-party critical review led by Quantis.90% 
of aluminium contained  
in a scrapped vehicle  
is recycled40% 
A hood produced with 
Constellium aluminium 
is 40% lighter than  
a steel hood
-37% 
Over the life  
cycle of a car,  
a hood produced 
with Constellium 
aluminium 
generates 37% less 
greenhouse gas 
emissions than  
a steel hood*5
Airware®   
in Space
The result of more than 30 years of R&D, Airware®, Constellium’s aluminium-lithium alloys, first  
ventured into space in 1998, providing for the launch of approximately 40 space shuttles. Over the past  
10 years, Airware® 2050 has joined Airware® 2195 as a preferred plate material for pressurized  
and non-pressurized structural components of space launchers and crew modules.
* Compared with current solutions.5% 
lower density*30% 
more strength*5% 
higher 
compressive  
and tensile 
modulus*
5-15% 
total component  
weight savings*7
Lighter  
Safer 
Greener
For automakers, enhancing the safety of drivers, passengers, and pedestrians is a top priority.  
Constellium’s superior design capabilities mean we can offer the most innovative Crash Management Systems (CMS)  
to our customers. Aluminium is the ideal material for CMS components due to its superior energy absorption  
and crash behavior. Thanks to our Constellium HSA6™ family of high-strength 6xxx alloys, we can reduce the  
system’s weight by 15-30% compared with traditional aluminium solutions, and by over 50% compared with steel.
* Constellium estimate based on 10 g/km CO2 saved for every 100 kg, and a useful life of 160,000 km per vehicle.560 
million  
metric tons of CO2 saved  
in emissions over a vehicle’s 
lifetime*7 million 
We supply 7 million Crash 
Management Systems a year
5 kg 
saved on each aluminium  
Crash Management 
System compared with  
a traditional system7
AlplanTM  
Beyond  
Precision
As we focus on offering sustainable growth solutions to our customers, Alplan™ Beyond Precision,  
the result of a long-standing proprietary process optimized over the last 20 years, is an unrivaled  
solution for high performance aluminium plates. An integrated solution, Alplan™ allows for increased  
productivity and reduced production costs.Up to 90% 
reduction in part rework 
compared with a mill 
finish plateUp to 15 times 
better flatness compared  
with industry standardsUp to 50% 
savings in  
manufacturing time
Up to 40% 
reduction in materials 
required vs. mill finish 
plate8 9
High  
Speed and  
On Track
Economic development and environmental concerns are leading to a huge global expansion and modernization 
of rail networks and rolling stock. By using our lightweight solutions, rail vehicle manufacturers can increase 
passenger capacity and save energy, leading to significant CO2 reductions.
Constellium is a market leader in rail solutions, covering the complete range of rolling stock material  
with our large extrusions product portfolio, for trams and subways, regional trains, and high-speed trains. 
Constellium’s aluminium-steel co-extruded power rails also help guarantee electricity supply to underground  
and suburban train systems around the world.
Source: US High Speed Rail Association.20x
High-speed rails have  
20 times the capacity  
of highways
76% 
fewer carbon dioxide 
emissions by train, 
compared with air 
travel for the same  
distance300 km/h  
(200 mph)
Some high-speed rail  
services can reach speeds  
of over 300 km per hour20,000  
people/hour
A single high-speed rail 
line transports up to 
20,000 people per hour9
We must ensure that sustainability is practiced at every step of our business, including the supply chain.  
That’s why Constellium seeks to work exclusively with suppliers who comply with applicable laws  
and adhere to sustainable practices in governance, the environment, and society. 
Supplier assessment is not simply a perfunctory exercise for us. We see it as an opportunity to work  
together for continuous improvement, and believe it helps to build strong, long-term relationships  
with our suppliers.More  
Sustainable  
Supplies50+%   
of our annual supplier 
spending has been 
through independent 
third-party sustainability 
assessment
45%  
of our suppliers 
have improved 
their sustainability 
performance since 201183%  
of evaluated  
suppliers’ 
performances 
meet or surpass 
our standards10 11
of
Reducing our carbon footprint and the negative impact of our operations is high on our sustainability agenda.  
We saw significant improvement in all business units in 2018, and we continue to focus our efforts and resources  
on all potential energy-saving opportunities to reach our 2020 energy efficiency goal. Energy 
Efficient4.7%
improvement in Constellium’s 
energy efficiency compared  
with 2015 baseline
6 million 
automotive Crash 
Management Systems 
can be produced using 
270 GWh of energy  
saved since 2015 10% 
our 2020 target 
for energy 
efficiency 
improvement  
vs. 201511SHARED   
VALUE
Strong, versatile, and renewable, aluminium is an integral 
part of our daily lives. At Constellium, we are experts  
at turning it into value-added products and solutions.  
From beverage cans to electric vehicles to space shuttles,  
we are constantly innovating for a lighter, safer,  
and more sustainable tomorrow.12 13Aluminium is the world’s third most abundant element and a vital material  
for the 21st century. Here, we explain the various stages of production and  
outline our role in the process. OUR ROLE  
CREATING VALUE  
THROUGHOUT THE LIFE  
CYCLE OF ALUMINIUM
1 2
6EXTRACTING, 
REFINING AND 
SMEL TINGCASTING, ROLLING 
AND EXTRUSION
RECYCLINGExtracting, refining,  
and smelting
Aluminium is produced from bauxite 
ore, predominantly from open-cast 
mines. Refineries use the Bayer 
process to convert bauxite into pure 
aluminium oxide (alumina), and 
strictly manage residue according to 
industry standards. Pure aluminium 
is extracted in smelters, using the 
Hall-Héroult electrolysis process. 
Aluminium output is 13 times greater 
now than in 1950, making it the most 
widely used non-ferrous metal. Casting, rolling, and extrusion
Other metals are added to molten aluminium to create 
customized alloys. These are cleaned of oxides and gases,  
then cast into molded products, ingots, billets, or slabs.  
Billets are transformed into extruded products, for use in 
products such as Crash Management Systems. Slabs are  
rolled to produce plates, sheets, or coils, for use in cans,  
car hoods, airplane wings, and more.
Recycling
Aluminium can be endlessly recycled to deliver new products with 
the same properties as those made from primary material. We obtain 
aluminium scrap for recycling from three sources: our processes, our 
customers’ processes (such as stamping and milling), and at the end 
of a product’s life. We recycle all three categories, and also work to 
improve recycling through partnerships with relevant stakeholders.
 Constellium’s contribution to the value chain133
4
5PRODUCT  
DESIGN AND 
MANUFACTURING
COLLECTING  
AND SORTINGPRODUCT USEProduct design  
and manufacturing
Engineers and researchers from our world-
class C-TEC Technology Center, our Plymouth 
hub, and our Brunel University Technology 
Center work closely with our customers to 
develop, produce, and deliver innovative and 
sustainable aluminium solutions that improve 
the world around us. We also offer product 
design capabilities, particularly for automotive 
component fabrication.Product use
We have longstanding relationships with 
customers in diverse industries, primarily 
the aerospace, packaging, and automotive 
sectors. The products and solutions we 
provide improve strength, durability, 
lightness, and fuel consumption in a large 
range of applications.
Collecting and sorting
Aluminium recycling within the manufacturing process makes sense 
economically and environmentally. Efficient collection and sorting 
systems are critical for the effective recycling of end-of-life scrap. We have 
established stringent procedures at our facilities and offer similar services  
to customers, creating value by reducing costs and recycling more products. 
 Constellium’s contribution to the value chain14 15How did Constellium perform in 2018? 
I’m proud to say that 2018 was another year of growth 
and improvement. Once again we saw double-digit 
Adjusted EBITDA growth, with each of our business 
units delivering record annual Adjusted EBITDA. In 
July, we completed the sale of the North Building at 
Sierre to Novelis, which contributed to our 
deleveraging. In December, we announced the 
acquisition of our partner’s 49% stake in Bowling 
Green, giving us full access to the attractive North 
American Auto Body Sheet market. 
As for EHS, we had positive results overall and a 
significant decrease in our recordable case rate, even 
beyond our target. Tragically, we experienced one 
fatality, at Neuf-Brisach. It was a terrible reminder of 
why safety must always be our number one priority. 
Were your results impacted  
by trade issues and global tariffs? 
It was indeed a very eventful year, marked by 
uncertainty in the global aluminium supply chain, 
largely as a result of the U.S. 232 tariffs on aluminium 
and temporary sanctions on Rusal. As a result of our 
pass-through model, the impact of these actions on 
our business has been limited. In addition, most of 
our production is made for consumption in the same 
geographic area (i.e. produced in North America for 
North America, or in Europe for Europe), which also 
helps mitigate the impact of tariffs. That said, the 
global trade environment is still unstable, and we will 
continue to monitor potential developments closely 
in 2019. 
“ We have a strong 
and balanced 
portfolio to support 
our attractive  
long-term  
growth plan.  ”Jean-Marc Germain, Chief Executive OfficerINTERVIEW
FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
ADJUSTED   
EBITDA GROWTHADJUSTED   
EBITDANET DEBT/  
ADJUSTED EBITDA
2.5x €700+ €50+ 8-10%FREE CASH   
FLOW
million million2019  TARGETS 2022  TARGETS15Is the automotive market still  
a growth driver for you? 
Yes, and we are confident that increased aluminium 
use is a secular trend for this market, due to the 
material’s lightweighting properties and superior 
energy absorption. The electrification of vehicles has 
great potential for us, and we have good exposure in 
the growing markets for light trucks, SUVs, and luxury 
cars. We are well-positioned to take advantage of the 
automotive industry’s shift to aluminium with the 
ramp-up of our two new 100  kt CALP lines in Neuf-
Brisach and Bowling Green, as well as the expansion 
of our Automotive Structures business. 
Our growth does not rely on the automotive market 
alone. Aerospace provides a steady stream of 
opportunities for growth and higher value-added 
products. Packaging is another strong, stable 
component of our portfolio. As recycling becomes a 
priority for our customers and society at large, we 
expect aluminium to stand out as a preferred material 
for beverages, since it can be recycled indefinitely. We 
have attractive growth opportunities in other niches, 
too. Overall, I believe we have a strong and balanced 
portfolio to support our long-term growth plan. 
How are you doing on the execution  
of your strategy?
We are pleased with the progress we have made and 
will continue to execute our strategy in 2019. To 
ensure that the entire company is aligned with 
stakeholders’ expectations, we have shared our 
strategy, mission, and values with our employees 
through a dedicated, company-wide initiative called 
MOMENTUM. After years of significant investments 
in our business, 2019 is also the year we targeted to 
generate positive free cash flow. We are confident 
of reaching this goal, thanks to robust growth, 
continuous operational improvement, and a strong 
focus on trade working capital. 
What are your priorities  
in terms of sustainability? 
They are clearly set out in our 2020 sustainability 
targets (see page 36). Safety remains number one; 
we are determined to further improve our record and 
prevent serious injuries. 
We have made progress on most of our targets and 
will keep working towards them. As one of the 
founding members of the Aluminium Stewardship 
Initiative (ASI), we are working to obtain ASI 
certification for our biggest plant in Germany, and 
to have our packaging and automotive plant in 
Neuf-Brisach, France, certified as well. Meanwhile, 
we are doing our best to ensure that our suppliers COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS 
GLOBAL COMPACT
For the seventh consecutive year we support the Ten Principles 
of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of 
human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In this 
report we communicate on our progress in the Sustainability 
Performance section on page 57 . comply with the ASI standard. Recycling remains 
another key focus, and we continue to promote 
end-of-life recycling.
What are your priorities for 2019? 
From a safety standpoint, we always aim for zero 
accidents. We will continue to focus on our Serious 
Injury and Fatality (SIF) program, and on promoting 
behavioral changes. 
Financially, we are committed to becoming free cash 
flow positive in 2019 and beyond, significantly 
reducing our debt and achieving our targets. 
We remain committed to our sustainability goals, 
minimizing our ecological impact while maximizing 
the social and environmental benefits of our products. 
We empower our employees, providing them with 
career development opportunities and practicing 
shared values. These engagements are an important 
part of our efforts to make Constellium the most 
exciting company to work for in the aluminium 
industry.
I am very optimistic about our prospects for the 
future, and am looking forward to delivering another 
strong year in 2019. STRATEGY
  Focus on high-value products
  Grow customer connectivity 
  Optimize asset utilization through 
portfolio management 
  Harvest returns from past investments 
  Strict cost control and continuous 
improvement
  Increase financial flexibility 16 17A GLOBAL SECTOR  
 LEADERSHARED VALUE   
Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products
Provides aluminium sheets and coils for packaging applications  
(beverage and food cans, closures, foilstock, cosmetics), specialty 
products (functional surfaces and industry products), as well as 
automotive solutions, including Auto Body Sheet. In addition, the  
business unit recycles end-of-life products, such as used beverage cans.RECYCLING ROLLED 
PRODUCTS
Automotive Structures and Industry 
Provides advanced solutions for the global automotive industry, including 
Crash Management Systems (CMS), structural components, battery 
enclosures, and other safety parts and extrusions. This business unit  
also manufactures a wide range of hard and soft alloy extrusions,  
as well as large pro files for road and rail transportation, energy, and  
other industrial applications.EXTRUDED 
PRODUCTSAUTOMOTIVE 
COMPONENTSAerospace and Transportation 
Provides technologically advanced aluminium alloys with wide 
applications across the global aerospace, transportation, industry,  
and defense sectors. The business unit offers a wide range of products 
including plates, sheets, and extrusions. Aerospace and Transportation  
also provides tailored solutions and value-added services to its 
customers, such as pre-machining and customer scrap recycling.PLATES EXTRUDED 
PRODUCTSROLLED 
PRODUCTS17REVENUE EMPLOYEES ADJUSTED EBITDA*
* Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure. ” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income, ” see the 20-F .
** In 2018, we changed the presentation of our pension and other benefit expense. Comparative financial information for prior years has been reclassified accordingly to conform 
to the current year’s presentation.UNLOCKING VALUE
€5. 7BN €498M ~  13,000
4.7
20165.2
20175.7
2018398**
2016448**
2017498
2018
■   PACKAGING AND AUTOMOTIVE 
ROLLED PRODUCTS
■   AEROSPACE AND TRANSPORTATION
■    AUTOMOTIVE STRUCTURES  
AND INDUSTRY■   FRANCE
■   NORTH AMERICA
■   GERMANY
■   EASTERN EUROPE
■   SWITZERLAND
■   ASIA■   PACKAGING AND AUTOMOTIVE  
ROLLED PRODUCTS
■   AEROSPACE AND TRANSPORTATION
■    AUTOMOTIVE STRUCTURES  
AND INDUSTRY54% 23%
23%49% 25%
31%8%
21%35%
27%6%3%+9% +11%18 19Why such a focus on behavior? 
While we made significant progress on our safety 
results, we cannot be proud as we tragically lost one 
of our colleagues in a workplace incident in Neuf-
Brisach, France, in 2018. This fatality is a strong 
reminder that behavior is as critical as policies and 
procedures when it comes to safety, and that our 
Safety Golden Rules must be respected at all times. 
We lost one of our most experienced workers, who 
was trained in EHS requirements. It was and still is a 
shock for all of us. 
How were Constellium’s environmental 
results in 2018? 
Very encouraging. There were no major incidents in 
2018, and our reporting improved significantly. Our 
2019 priority will be to comply with upcoming 
environmental regulations in the European Union. We 
will also continue to focus on reducing energy 
consumption and reducing landfill waste to meet our 
2020 sustainability goals. 
 
How are you working to promote better 
health among your employees? 
Our objective is to prevent work-related diseases and 
to promote employee health. Many of our sites are 
offering health programs including flu vaccinations, 
fitness classes, eye testing, and other benefits. Most 
of our locations also have an Employee Assistance 
Program to support our employees and their families 
with personal concerns ranging from significant life 
events to everyday challenges. 
What will be your key priorities in 2019? 
Our focus remains on safety and continuing to reduce 
recordable and serious injuries. We are focusing on 
peer-to-peer interaction, and specifically, how to get 
more employees to correct their co-workers’ unsafe 
actions. We will also keep working to ensure that 
Constellium is an environmentally responsible 
neighbor in the communities in which we operate. What were Constellium’s greatest safety 
achievements in 2018? 
The launch of our Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) program 
was certainly a highlight. Through this program we were able 
to reduce the number of serious injuries from 14 in 2017 to 3 
in 2018. Its major components include the formation of a 
plant-wide SIF team, engaging the workforce to identify risks 
on the shop floor, and addressing these risks. With a renewed 
emphasis on the importance of leadership and streamlining 
the EHS Management system, we were able to set an all-
time low for our recordable rate. We continued our efforts to 
improve safety in our recycling and casting operations units, 
with good progress on our hands-free casting initiative. Our 
focus remains on promoting safe behavior for all. 
“ Environment, Health and 
Safety (EHS) is not just  
a matter of policies and 
processes, but also of 
behavior and engagement – 
an overall culture of 
commitment to one another.  ”Interview with Jack Clark, Senior Vice President,  
Manufacturing Excellence and Chief Technical OfficerENVIRONMENT,  
HEAL TH AND SAFETY19GOVERNANCE
Director independence 
We maintain a one-tier Board of Directors consisting of 
an Executive Director and Non-Executive Directors (each 
a “ Director”). Under Dutch law, the Board of Directors is 
responsible for the policy-making and management of the 
Company. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide 
guidance to the Executive Director. 
As a foreign private issuer under the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) rules, we are not required to have Independent 
Directors on our Board of Directors (but it is required that our 
Audit Committee consist of Independent Directors). 
However, our Board of Directors has determined that, under 
current NYSE listing standards regarding independence 
(which we are not currently subject to), and taking into account 
any applicable committee standards, as of December 31, 
2018, Messrs. Evans, Brandjes, Guillemot, Hartman, Maugis, 
Ormerod, and Paschke and Ms. Brooks, Ms. Walker, and 
Ms. Frachet are Independent Directors.
Board meetings in 2018
The Board of Directors held six meetings and reviewed a 
number of matters, including: committee reports; reports from 
the CEO (including environmental, health & safety, markets 
and competition) and from the CFO and the Group’s General 
Counsel; conversion and relocation of the Group’s corporate 
headquarters; review and approval of the 2017 Annual Accounts 
and Form 20-F filing with the SEC;  approval of the agenda items 
for the Annual General Meeting 2018; approval of executive 
remuneration and remuneration policy for Non-Executive 
Directors; reports from business units; review of Company 
strategy and strategic opportunities; review of 2019 budget; 
finance reports; presentation on investor perception, and Board 
and Directors’ third-party evaluation results.
Our committees 
Audit Committee
As of December 31, 2018, the Audit Committee held eight 
meetings and consisted of four Independent Directors: 
• Werner P. Paschke (Chairman)
• Martha Brooks 
• John Ormerod 
• Lori A. WalkerHuman Resources and Remuneration  
Committee
As of December 31, 2018, the Remuneration Committee  
held five meetings and consisted of four Directors: 
• Peter F. Hartman (Chairman)
• Martha Brooks 
• Richard B. Evans 
• Guy Maugis
Nominating/Corporate Governance  
Committee
As of December 31, 2018, the Nominating/Corporate Governance 
Committee held five meetings and consisted of three Directors: 
• Richard B. Evans (Chairman) 
• Michiel Brandjes 
• John Ormerod
Policies 
Code of Conduct
Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets 
out the standard of behavior we expect from our employees. 
The Code governs the way Constellium acts in business, and 
how we expect our business partners, customers, and suppliers 
to behave. It was renewed in 2018, reinforcing the standard of 
anti-corruption and Human Rights and Labor Practices. It applies 
to all Constellium employees, subject to applicable local law. 
Compliance with the Code is essential to preserving and 
enhancing the Company’s reputation as a responsible corporate 
citizen and, ultimately, to maximizing shareholder value. For 
suppliers, we have developed a specific Code of Conduct. 
Whistleblower policy 
Our whistleblower policy fosters an environment where 
our employees can act without fear of retaliation and 
report wrongdoing or suspected wrongdoing, corruption, or 
irregularities in finance, accounting, or banking as concerns 
Constellium to a reporting official. To facilitate this reporting, 
we have established an external hotline in all the countries in 
which we have operations and in various languages. 
Insider Trading policy 
We have an Insider Trading policy which sets out the restrictions 
on trading in Constellium securities and the use of inside 
information.20 21Jean-Marc Germain
Executive Director 
Executive Director of the Board 
of Directors since June 2016 
and Chief Executive Officer 
since July 2016
Philippe Guillemot
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since May 2013
Lori A. Walker
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board  
of Directors since June 2014Richard B. Evans  
Chairman 
Chairman of our Board  
since December 2012 and  
a member of our Board of  
Directors since January 2011Michiel Brandjes
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2014
Peter F . Hartman
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of   
Directors since June 2014BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the management of the 
Company, the general conduct of the Company’s business, and its corporate 
governance structure. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide  
guidance to the Executive Director, who is entrusted with the day-to-day 
management of the Company.GOVERNANCE  
Werner P . Paschke
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board  
of Directors since May 2013
Martha Brooks 
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2016
Guy Maugis 
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board  
of Directors since January 2011 
John Ormerod 
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board  
of Directors since June 2014
Stéphanie Frachet
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of  
Directors since May 2018
21Peter R. Matt
Executive Vice President  
and Chief Financial Officer
Jean-Marc Germain
Chief Executive OfficerEXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Our Executive Committee focuses on strategy, financial management, commercial 
developments, program execution, organizational evolution, and Group-wide policies. 
Together, they combine close to 200 years of experience in the aluminium industry. 
Vittorio Rossetti
Vice President and Chief  
Information Officer
Paul Warton 
President, Automotive  
Structures and Industry  
business unit
Ingrid Joerg
President, Aerospace and 
Transportation business unit
Ryan Jurkovic
Senior Vice President  
and Chief Human Resources 
Officer
Jeremy Leach
Senior Vice President  
and Group General Counsel
GOVERNANCE  
Peter Basten
President, Packaging and 
Automotive Rolled Products 
business unit
Nicolas Brun 
Senior Vice President, Public 
Affairs, Communications,  
and Sustainability
Jack Clark
Senior Vice President,  
Manufacturing Excellence  
and Chief Technical Officer
22 23SUSTAINABILITY   
COUNCIL  
Making sustainability an integral part of everything we do
Founded in 2012, the Sustainability Council is the driving force helping  
Constellium to achieve our sustainability targets. GOVERNANCE  
“We were very excited  
to host the Council at 
Ravenswood. We now better 
understand the Group’s 
sustainability agenda and 
policies. It’s also important 
to see how Ravenswood’s 
initiatives can contribute  
to achieving our targets. ”
Buddy Stemple,
CEO Constellium Rolled Products RavenswoodThe Sustainability Council is a formal body whose 
members are responsible for guiding Constellium 
towards our 2020 sustainability goals. The Council 
meets four times a year, including once with 
Constellium’s Executive Committee. In July 2018, it 
presented the Executive Committee with a progress 
report on our 2020 Sustainability Roadmap. 
In 2018, the Sustainability Council spent time at 
two of our sites, Singen, Germany and Ravenswood, 
U.S. The Council shared information about our 
sustainability projects and progress with each 
plant’s management team, and also learned about 
the plants’ own actions on site.
Embedding sustainability  
throughout the company
Some of our sustainability targets are related to 
our man ufac turing operations. That’s why our 
Manufacturing Council, chaired by our Senior Vice 
President of Manufacturing Excellence and Chief 
Technical Officer, and consisting of the presidents 
of our business units as well as senior managers of 
Strategy, Finance, and EHS, interacts regularly with 
the Sustainability Council. Together, they review 
and discuss specific issues related to our energy 
efficiency and landfill waste objectives.
In 2018, we introduced a face-to-face presentation 
and sustainability discussion as part of the 
onboarding program for new hires. During these 
sessions, we presented the company’s sustainability 
program and various initiatives, thereby engaging 
newcomers in helping us achieve our 2020 targets. 
It has become increasingly important for our sales and 
purchasing teams to be able to respond to customers’ 
requests and society’s expectations regarding 
sustainability, so we conducted customized training 
sessions in 2018. The sessions familiarized the 
teams with tools and policies to help them address 
sustainability challenges and requests.  Sustainability Council meeting at our Ravenswood plant in November 2018
23Our business is making the future lighter and brighter.  
We create value throughout aluminium’s life cycle, thanks to  
our ~13,000 employees, 25+ manufacturing sites, and  
state-of-the-art research centers. Our revolutionary products  
and top-notch services meet the most challenging requirements  
of our customers and society.BUSINESS   
VALUE24 25Hello, Düsseldorf! 
Constellium exhibited its extensive range of advanced 
solutions at Aluminium 2018, the world’s largest  
trade fair dedicated to aluminium and its applications,  
in October. With a booth built around the concept  
of “Aluminium in the city, ” Constellium highlighted how 
its innovative and sustainable solutions contribute to 
modern cities – from building architecture to automobiles, 
planes, and packaging.
SEARCH ENGINES
Customers can now search for aluminium 
plates, coils, and sheets via our new 
product search tool. It is an online 
catalogue of products available in different 
markets, organized by criteria such as 
alloy family or thickness. The Product 
Finder boosts the visibility of our range  
 and provides customers with a quick and 
easy way to find the information they need. 
www.constellium.com/product-finderBUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS  BUSINESS VALUE
Lighter Cans?  
No Sweat!
Moravia Cans, a Czech 
aerosol can producer, 
is using our Aeral™ 
aluminium solution 
for Unilever’s Dove 
antiperspirant.  
Normally used for 
beverage cans, the 
breakthrough technology 
behind Aeral™ allows  
up to 30% weight savings  
while maintaining ductility  
and pressure resistance. 
Tailor-made 
Tests
As Constellium advances 
technologies (materials, 
shapes, joining methods, etc.) 
for the battery enclosures 
of electric vehicles, we have 
also developed new testing 
equipment and methods where 
standards do not yet exist. One 
example is a test for intrusion 
on the bottom plate of a battery 
enclosure, which is susceptible 
to undercarriage impacts  
from debris in the road. Thanks 
to these new testing methods, 
which reduce development 
time and save on costs,  
we can design bottom plate 
systems that help minimize 
intrusion risks and optimize 
the dimensions and weight  
of battery enclosure packages.
Architectural 
Aluminium 
Laminium OAB® is Constellium’s solution for best-in-class anodized 
aluminium architectural applications. Laminium OAB® was developed  
by our R&D Center in Voreppe, France, to comply with the highest 
standards in terms of appearance, color consistency between batches, 
formability, and long-term resistance. Laminium OAB® allows architects  
to create complex styles and designs with a unique aspect.
25Automotive in High Gear 
Constellium continued to expand our longstanding partnership with 
many of our automotive customers. We’re supplying Crash Management 
Systems, front rails, and Auto Body Sheet for the new BMW X Series 
Sports Activity Vehicles. For the new Mercedes-Benz Front Wheel Drive 
Platform (A-Class, B-Class, CLA, GLA, GLB), we’re providing front Crash 
Management Systems and other structural components. And we are the 
primary supplier of automotive body sheets for closures and inner parts 
of the new Audi A6.
Believing in   
Bowling Green
We strengthened our position as an aluminium supplier to automotive 
customers by deciding to acquire UACJ’s 49% stake in our Bowling 
Green,  Kentucky, auto body sheet joint venture. The decision gives  
us greater scale and control over Auto Body Sheet development  
in North America, an attractive and growing market.
Cruising Speed 
with Boeing 
We signed a multi-year contract with our 
multi-decade partner Boeing to supply 
its commercial airplane programs with 
advanced aluminium rolled products, 
mostly from our plant in Ravenswood, 
West Virginia. The agreement confirms 
our position as a world leader in 
aluminium products and solutions for 
the aerospace industry. 
FACTORIES  
OF THE FUTURE 
Constellium launched 
10 pilot projects to study how 
Industry 4.0 can revolutionize 
our factories, making them 
safer and more efficient. 
Digital technology helps us 
reduce energy consumption, 
optimize scrap use, and predict 
when a machine might fail. 
Collaborative robots can 
perform physically demanding 
or potentially dangerous tasks, 
while smart devices warn of 
risk. Our Digital@Constellium 
pilot program is due to be 
completed by late 2019.
BEST IN CLASS 
Constellium’s University Technology 
Center (UTC) at Brunel University, 
London, is adding new research 
capabilities. In addition to full scale 
casting and extrusion, the UTC now 
prototypes and tests aluminium 
automotive components such  
as Crash Management Systems, 
body structure components, and 
battery enclosures for electric  
and hybrid vehicles. This means 
we can help automakers further 
reduce their development phase 
and time-to-market. 26 27Constellium is one of the few companies 
able to produce both flat rolled products and 
automotive structures that meet the quality 
and quantity required by car manufacturers. 
An accelerating market
Automotive is expected to remain an at-
tractive growth market for aluminium in 
Europe and North America, due to:  
• Secular growth driven by lightweighting 
• Greater adoption of aluminium Auto 
Body Sheet and structural components 
in luxury cars, light trucks, and SUVs 
• Higher aluminium intensity per vehicle. 
According to CRU, annual consumption 
of Auto Body Sheet between 2018 and 
2023 will grow 10% in Europe, 11% in 
North America, and 27% in China.  Strong 
growth is also expected for structural 
components and Crash Management 
Systems. Protecting passengers 
and pedestrians  
Beyond lightweighting, aluminium’s 
superior energy absorption properties 
make it an excellent material for safety. 
We design rolled products and structural 
components to be lighter and safer. AUTOMOTIVE
A unique partner for automakers  
We do it all: material science, component prototyping and production,  
simulation and testing, product development.BUSINESS VALUE   
ELECTRIC VEHICLES DRIVING DEMAND
27• As part of our Auto Body Sheet offer, 
Securalex®, our portfolio of high-tech 
crash absorption alloys, fulfills the 
most demanding safety requirements. 
Securalex® HS can absorb as much energy 
as the most crash-resistant steel with 30% 
less weight. Highly formable Securalex® P6 
is used for hood inners (for instance on the 
new Audi A6) to enhance pedestrian safety. 
• As part of our structural components 
offer in addition to Crash Management 
Systems, in 2018 Constellium began 
producing aluminium engine rails for 
the new BMW X5 Sports Activity Vehicle. 
Part of the vehicle architecture, the rails 
help support engines and absorb energy in 
a high-speed collision. They are 5 kg lighter 
than the prior model’s steel version and 
manufactured at our White, Georgia plant, 
honored as the “Innovator of the Year” at 
the 2018 Georgia Automotive Awards. 
  Bloomberg NEF 2018 Electric Vehicle Outlook is expecting sales 
of electric vehicles (EVs) to increase from a record 1. 1 million 
worldwide in 2017 to 11 million in 2025 and then surge to up  
to 30 million in 2030, with China leading the transition. 
  According to Constellium’s in-house studies, electric vehicles 
can have 3-5 times the aluminium rolled and extruded product 
weight as compared with an internal combustion engine vehicle.
  Aluminium is the ideal material for battery enclosures since it is 
light, crash and intrusion resistant, and manages thermal energy . 
As a result, the battery enclosure market could become the 
largest automotive application for aluminium extrusions by 2025. 
Engine railInnovating for safer roads
27
12
34
56
7
Our automotive plants A GLOBAL LEADER IN AUTOMOTIVE
EXPANDING OUR CAPABILITIES AND OUR FOOTPRINT 
  Bowling Green, Kentucky – now a fully owned plant,  
with a capacity of 100 kt
  Muscle Shoals, Alabama – ramp-up of Auto Body  
Sheet cold coils
  Neuf-Brisach, France – ramp-up of a 100 kt  
CALP line
  In 2019, we are opening a plant in Nanjing, China,  
for the electric vehicle market and in Žilina, Slovakia,  
for the Eastern European market
  A new casthouse and extrusion line in Dˇ eˇ cin, Czech Republic,  
and a second press in Levice, Slovakia
  Our plants in Dahenfeld and Gotmadingen, Germany, and Nuits-Saint-
Georges, France, have been expanded to supply new automotive platforms  RoW   China
  Europe   North America
Constellium is uniquely positioned to develop aluminium alloys 
and produce both flat rolled products and automotive extruded 
structures that meet the demanding quality and volume 
requirements of global automakers.
1   Car body closures
2   Body-in-White
3   Crash Management Systems
4   Battery Enclosures
5   Chassis and Mechanical Parts
6   Decorative Parts and Equipment
7   Heat Exchangers23%
of our 2018 revenue came  
from the automotive market
Some of 
our clients
   Audi, BMW Group, Daimler, 
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, 
Ford, General Motors, 
Jaguar Land Rover, 
Porsche, PSA Group, 
Toyota, VolkswagenMarket trends
AUTO BODY SHEET FLAT ROLLED PRODUCTS  
Consumption (kt)
Source: Republished under license from CRU International Ltd., 
Aluminium Rolled Products Market Outlook November 2018.Source: Constellium analysis based on CRU, 
IHS, Ducker and Bloomberg data.ALUMINIUM EXTRUSION DEMAND IN 
SELECTED AUTOMOTIVE APPLICATIONS
Consumption (kt)
27  Battery Enclosures
  CMS, Body Structures, ChassisCAGR
+12.8%
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 20231,000
02,000
13
2015 2020e2025e1,000
50028 29As a major provider of pre-machining 
operations and custom-designed 
aerospace components, and a producer 
of many advanced proprietary alloys and 
technologies, we offer value-added and 
innovative solutions to our customers. 
We create value by vertically integrating 
the aerospace supply chain, from closed 
loop recycling to pre-machining parts:
• Simplifying the supply chain and 
shortening lead times
• Preserving metal value through closed 
loop recycling of aerospace-grade alloys
A market gaining altitude 
Demand for aerospace plates is primarily 
driven by the build rate of aircraft, 
which we believe will be supported 
for the foreseeable future by (i) the 
necessary replacement of aging fleets 
by airline operators, particularly in the United States and Western Europe, and 
(ii) increasing global passenger air traffic. 
The aerospace industry publication The 
Airline Monitor  estimates that global 
revenue passenger miles will grow at a 
compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 
approximately 5% from 2018 to 2024.  
Demand for aluminium for the North 
American and European aerospace 
rolled products markets is expected to 
grow by 2% per year between 2017 and 
2025.  
Pipeline to the sky
Our aerospace teams are focused on 
developing new products for our long-
term, sustainable future as innovation 
leaders in aerospace. Our product and 
customer leadership strategy requires a 
constant flow of high-value products and 
applications.AEROSPACE
Helping a growing industry fly high
Our materials and technologies keep the world’s aircraft and rocket 
manufacturers soaring.BUSINESS VALUE   
IN ORBIT
29• Tailored performance: The aerospace 
industry is continually evolving, so we 
work in partnership with industry leaders 
to develop customized aluminium-
lithium alloy solutions that deliver top 
performance while promoting efficient 
design and clean production processes. 
Constellium’s unique tailor-made 
technology unlocks the potential of 
aluminium to deliver top quality and 
unparalleled performance, lifting our 
customers’ engineering projects to new 
heights. Airware® is a performance 
launchpad for the aerospace projects of 
the future. 
• Brushed Airware® 2198 fuselage  
sheets have arrived on the market with a 
robust, corrosion-resistant surface and 
an appealing look. Airware sheets offer 
a lower-weight, higher-performance 
alternative to other materials.
Space launch systems and travel require materials 
that push the envelope. About 25 years ago we started 
developing ultra high-performance aluminium-lithium 
alloys that were quickly adopted by the NASA Space 
Shuttle. With their unique combination of strength and 
light weight, our Airware® 2195 and 2050 alloys allow 
for dramatically more payload and higher orbits. Both 
have become preferred plate material for structural 
components of space launchers and crew modules.  
They are serving major space programs such as SpaceX’s 
Falcon Launchers, NASA Orion Crew Modules, Boeing’s 
Space Launch System, and Blue Origin.
29
1
2
3
45
6
789101112
Our aerospace plantsA GLOBAL LEADER IN AEROSPACE
AN INTEGRATED PLATFORM
  Issoire, France; Ravenswood, West Virginia, U .S.;  
and Montreuil Juigné, France form an integrated 
industrial platform with unique capabilities
  Ussel, France, is a sole provider of sand casting high 
performance aerospace components
  Valais, Switzerland, manufactures high value-added 
aluminium plates
  Two casting units produce Airware® at the Issoire plant 
and our Technology Center in Voreppe, France  Freighters   Medium/Large Widebody
  Single Aisle   Regional
1   Upper wing skin panels
2   Lower wing skin panels
3   Fuselage skin panels
4   Fuselage stiffeners
5   Landing gear
6   Wing spars7   Wing stringers
8   Wing ribs
9   Center wing box
10   Floor beams
11   Seat tracks
12   Fuselage frames14%
of our 2018 revenue came  
from the aerospace market
Some of  
our clients
   Airbus, Boeing, Bombardier, Dassault 
Aviation, Embraer, Lockheed Martin, 
NASA, Pilatus, SpaceX, Blue OriginMarket trends
WORLD ’S COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT FLEET  
(Thousands)
2017 2037CAGR
+3.5%
24.448.5
Source: Boeing 2018 current market outlook.GLOBAL AEROSPACE DEMAND  
Consumption (kt)
CAGR
+2%
29
2017 2021e2025e500
250
Source: Constellium internal  analysis. 30 31
PACKAGINGBUSINESS VALUE   
We address every facet of the market, 
from recycling to aluminium coils and 
sheets:
•  Beverage cans
•  Food cans
•  Bottle closures
•  Flexible packaging
•  Personal care aerosols
•  Cosmetics packaging
•  Luxury packaging for the perfume 
industryA steady market 
In Europe, the market is expanding 
by 2.4% per annum, according to CRU. 
Two factors are driving this growth. 
First, aluminium is replacing steel as the 
standard for beverage cans – between 
2002 and 2016, aluminium’s penetration 
of the European canstock market 
increased from 58% to 85%. Second, with 
purchasing power on the rise in Eastern 
Europe, more people are drinking canned 
beverages.
North America has contrasting trends, 
resulting in a flat growth rate. There is a 
decline in consumption of carbonated soft 
drinks, due to better health awareness in 
general. This decrease is counterbalanced 
by growth in Mexico, along with the use of 
cans in niche markets such as sparkling 
water, energy drinks, and craft beers. 
31   An increased focus on sustainability is expected to boost demand for aluminium 
cans as a sustainable alternative to plastics in beverage packaging.  
- infinitely recyclable  
- keeps same properties after recycling  
- aluminium’s value makes recycling costs worthwhile, compared with other materials  
-  recycling used beverage cans saves 95% energy compared with using primary metals
   This is reinforced by an increase in environmental scrutiny and plastics 
regulations.  
- European ban on single-use plastics by 2021  
- company announcements on the reduction of plastic packaging and single-use 
plastics
   As an aluminium recycling leader, Constellium is well placed to benefit  
from these trends. ALUMINIUM IS BORN TO RECYCLEInnovation is part  
of the package
We have made great progress in using the 
drawing and ironing process to develop 
down gauged aerosols and bottles, 
thanks to our new prototyping capability 
at C-TEC and ongoing collaboration with 
customers. 
Our Constellium Technology Center in 
Voreppe, France, regularly works with 
customers on innovation. We provide 
products for the cosmetic packaging 
industry, from lipstick to perfume caps, 
where appearance is key. To respond to 
customers’ demands for iridescent parts, 
Constellium recently developed and 
patented a new anodizing process. The 
resulting product changes color from blue 
to pink to yellow depending on the light, a 
trait that is highly appreciated by OEMs.
A world-leading integrated supplier for the aluminium market  
Aluminium is a preferred material for all kinds of packaging. It keeps beverages 
cold, is flexible and lightweight, can be densely stacked, and is efficient to recycle. 
Constellium’s high-value products range from screw tops to perfume bottles,  
and we are a major recycler.31TOTAL EUROPEAN ROLLED PRODUCTS 
Consumption Can Stock (Kt)
TOTAL NORTH AMERICAN ROLLED PRODUCTS
Consumption Can Stock (Kt)
Mexico and Canada
United StatesCAGR
0.2%
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023Source: Republished under license 
from CRU International Ltd., 
Aluminium Rolled Products Market 
Outlook November 2018.Eastern Europe
Western EuropeCAGR
+2.4%
20181,200
800
400
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023Source: Republished under license  
from CRU International Ltd.,  
Aluminium Products Market Outlook 
November 2018.Market trendsA GLOBAL LEADER IN PACKAGING
WORLD-CLASS CAPABILITIES
  Muscle Shoals, Alabama – one of our largest sites 
with the widest strip mill in the U.S. and a world-class 
beverage can recycling center
  Neuf-Brisach, France – with key positions in beverage 
can stock (body, end, and tab) and food can stock  
in Europe, along with a world-class recycling center 
  Singen, Germany – supplies closure stock to a global 
customer base. Unique expertise in functional surfaces, 
particularly appreciated by the luxury cosmetic 
packaging sectorOur plants
31The numbers 
tell the story
  Aluminium is the material of choice 
for 90% of the world’s beverage cans
  It takes as little as 60 days   
for an aluminium can to return  
as a new can after recycling
  We have the capacity to recycle the 
equivalent of 32 billion cans at our 
facilities in Muscle Shoals, Alabama, 
and Neuf-Brisach, France
  Our plant in Muscle Shoals, Alabama, 
has the capacity to recycle the 
equivalent of about 1/5  of the 
beverage cans sold in the U.S.
Some of  
our clients
  AB InBev, Amcor, Ardagh Group,  
Ball, Can-Pack, Crown, Coca-Cola, 
Moravia Cans40%
of our 2018 revenue came  
from the packaging market
32 33DEFENSEBUSINESS VALUE   
Partnering for better protection
Constellium forms partnerships with global defense companies  
to develop next-generation solutions. 
broadest global offering of specialized 
aluminium alloys. With superior 
performance, aluminium is a highly 
effective solution for the battlefield, and 
is the best choice for armored vehicles 
when superior protection and mobility 
matter most. 
Military aircraft
With our portfolio of advanced alloys 
(including Airware®) and our collaborative 
approach, Constellium is a strong partner 
for the world’s military aircraft makers. 
Our high-performance materials are 
found in aircraft such as the F-35 
Joint Strike Fighter, F-22, F-16, A-10, 
Eurofighter Typhoon, and Hawk. 
Mobile military bridges
Military bridges need to be easily 
transportable and quickly deployed to 
enable the movement of vehicles and people in various terrains and climates, 
whether for military operations or 
disaster relief. We work closely with 
leading customers in the field, and 
our offering encompasses a complete 
product portfolio for military bridges, 
with both flat rolled products (sheet and 
plate) and extrusions. 
SOME OF OUR CLIENTS 
 
    BAE Systems, Boeing, CMI Defence, 
CNIM, Dassault Aviation, Embraer, 
FNSS, General Dynamics, KMW, 
Lockheed Martin, MBDA, Nexter 
Systems, Northrop Grumman, 
Sikorsky, WFEL
Defense solutions not only need to 
be effective, they need to improve 
survivability of personnel. This means 
producing military aircraft and armored 
vehicles that are faster, lighter, safer, and 
more durable.
To help achieve this goal, defense 
manufacturers place their trust in 
Constellium as a dependable and 
innovative technology partner with a 
proven track record in R&D collaboration 
and state-of-the-art material solutions. 
Military land vehicles
Our lightweight aluminium alloys offer 
outstanding impact resistance and 
advanced stiffness properties. They can 
provide standalone armor protection 
or serve as part of a multi-material 
solution, giving manufacturers the 
flexibility to optimize levels of protection. 
Constellium’s armor product suite is the 33TRANSPORTATION
Superior products for road and rail
Constellium supports transportation manufacturers beyond a traditional supplier role, 
producing value-added products and solutions and managing complex supply chains.
and produce the aluminium body shell for 
a new high-speed train, bringing it from 
concept to delivery in less than two years.
Aluminium casting has been used 
successfully for decades in powertrain 
applications, including engine boxes and 
structural parts such as support beams 
and bogies. Our Ussel, France, plant 
specializes in precision casting – one of the 
fastest, simplest, and most cost-effective 
ways of shaping complex aluminium parts.
Power rails
Constellium’s aluminium-steel co-
extruded power rails help guarantee 
electrical supply to underground and 
suburban train systems around the planet. 
Together with our joint venture partner, 
Pandrol, we design, manufacture, test, 
and supply conductor rail systems.
Our facility in Singen is the only plant in 
the world to produce aluminium-steel co-extrusions that supply power to metro 
rail systems.
Leisure vehicles 
Constellium provides a range of products for 
camping cars and caravans. Wide painted 
aluminium coils are the material of choice for 
top-quality leisure vehicles, and our ability to 
produce very wide painted coils allows for a 
product range unequalled in the industry, 
with widths of up to 2,600 mm (102") or 
more, and thicknesses of up to 2 mm (0.08").
SOME OF OUR CLIENTS  
 
    Benalu, CAF , Gillig, Hitachi Rail, 
Hyundai, Kögel, Krone, Schmitz 
Cargobull, Stadler, WabashIn the transportation industry, every 
kilogram saved through lightweighting 
contributes to our customers’ bottom 
lines. We have built upon aluminium alloys’ 
light weight and other intrinsic properties 
to develop a range of dedicated extrusions, 
sheets, plates, castings, and semi-finished 
components for tanker trucks, trailers, 
trains, tramways, and other modes of 
transportation.
In addition to aluminium semi-finished 
products of exceptional quality, we provide 
our customers with a wide variety of ready-
made solutions, components, and tailored 
services that reduce manufacturing costs 
and production throughput time.
Commercial trucks  
and trailers
Constellium’s extra-large wide coil offering 
from our Ravenswood, West Virginia, plant 
is unique in North America. Our wide coils 
are ideal for roofs and side panels, since 
they make it possible to build trailers with 
single sheets of aluminium, providing 
greater strength and preventing water 
leakage into cargo areas. 
Rail vehicles
We have a comprehensive railway-spe -
cific extrusions offer, developed over 40+ 
years and with references worldwide. We 
adhere to the latest quality standards in 
the aluminium and rail industries, includ -
ing the International Railway Industry 
Standard (IRIS).
Our lightweight aluminium solutions give 
rail vehicle manufacturers a competitive 
advantage when producing light and 
energy-efficient railcars. Recently, we 
helped a European customer develop 34 35INDUSTRYBUSINESS VALUE   
Our applications cover a wide range of products, from building facades  
to industrial robots. With 100 years in the industry field, we combine experience 
with world-class manufacturing capabilities to offer our customers the right 
solutions for their individual requirements. 
standards and require up to 40% less 
material. Their stability is higher than 
that of mill finish plates, reducing part 
rework by as much as 90%. They have 
excellent anodizing results, even for 
typically difficult products. With Alplan™, 
our customers accelerate the output of 
production lines; some are able to halve 
their manufacturing time.
Serious about  
series production
Building upon Constellium’s decades 
of experience and knowledge of the 
molding industry value chain, we have 
developed Alumold®, an excellent 
alternative to steel molds. These 
aluminium mold products reduce overall 
costs and offer significant productivity 
gains. Alumold® tools allow for shorter 
cycle times and faster machining, 
polishing, and engraving times, and are 
also easy to modify. 
Transitioning to Alumold® is seamless, 
enabling molders and mold makers 
to operate differently and set a new standard. Alumold® products are 
suitable for everything from large series 
programs to prototyping of all kinds, 
such as injection tooling, blow molding, 
and injection molds. 
Innovative architecture 
With Constellium's extensive knowledge 
of the building and construction sector, 
we can deliver the most technologically 
advanced solutions to our customers.
Our solutions meet aesthetic requirements 
and technical challenges for applications 
such as facades and interiors, mold 
construction, doors and windows, ceiling 
systems, composite applications, high-
quality light fittings, solar technologies, 
and specialty thermal breaks.
A sophisticated surface
Inoxal® offers the sophisticated brushed 
aspect of stainless steel without 
its inconvenience. Its durability and 
corrosion resistance make it ideal for 
architectural applications while ensuring 
low lifetime costs. After anodization, 
the homogeneous surface is abrasion-
resistant and can be easily cleaned using 
a suitable product.
SOME OF OUR CLIENTS 
 
    Air Torque, Drager, Festo, Metso, 
Siemens, ThyssenkruppAluminium affords excellent machinabil -
ity, weldability, and formability, and has 
 superior thermal and electrical conduc -
tivity. Constellium’s aluminium sheets, 
plates, bars, and extrusions serve a 
 variety of  industrial applications:
• Premium semi-products for building 
and architecture
• Components for machinery and indus -
trial robots
• Equipment for processing semicon -
ductors and flat panels
• Molds for shaping plastic objects
In addition to our extensive offer of 
semi-products, we provide ready-to-
use solutions for industrial applications, 
such as design planks for industrial 
floors or high-dissipation heat sinks.
Plates that perform
In response to customer demand for 
high-performance aluminium plates, 
we launched our new Alplan™ Beyond 
Precision product line. These specially 
rolled plates feature up to 15 times 
better flatness compared with industry 35SUSTAINABLE  
VALUE
We strive to keep our footprint light, like the material our business 
is based upon. We celebrate the inherent sustainability of aluminium, 
which not only increases efficiency by reducing weight, but can be 
recycled without losing its properties. We prioritize  
the safety and well-being of our employees and communities,  
and we embrace a circular economy for the health of our planet.36 37 
SUSTAINABLE VALUE   
By keeping a progress report of our performance on commitments, we know  
where we are most likely to succeed and where we must increase our efforts.OUR SUSTAINABILITY  
TARGETS FOR 2020
* Recordable Case Rate measures 
the number of fatalities, serious 
injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted 
work injuries or medical treatments 
per one million hours worked.
** We did have 3 serious injuries, 
which is in line with our target, but  
one was a fatality. We cannot consider 
this as a target achievement.
 Target achieved
 Significant progress made; on track to achieve the target
 More effort required to achieve the target• Have at least one  
site Aluminium  
Stewardship Initiative  
(ASI) certified
• Evaluate the sustainability 
performance of all key 
suppliers
  
• Undertake on-site 
sustainability audits  
of suppliers working in 
locations and sectors  
with greater risk of  
divergent practices
• Ensure that all suppliers  
sign on to our Code  
of Conduct
  BUILD A STANDARD  
FOR ALUMINIUM
ENSURE  
SUSTAINABLE 
PURCHASING
RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS
We will manage our  
business in an ethical  
and responsible way
• Reduce production waste  
going to landfill by 10%  
(vs. 2015)
REDUCE  
PRODUCTION WASTE 
SENT TO LANDFILL
• 10% energy efficiency 
improvement by 2020
IMPROVE ENERGY  
EFFICIENCY
OPERATIONS
We will minimize  
the impact  
of our operations• 80% beverage can recycling 
rate in Europe
• Work with the industry  
and with our stakeholders  
to increase the beverage  
can recycling rate  
in the U.S.  
BOOST  
BEVERAGE  
CAN RECYCLING
PRODUCTS
We will enhance the 
environmental benefits of 
our products and improve 
customer satisfaction
• Conduct a customer 
satisfaction survey  
every two years for all  
business units
INCREASE  
CUSTOMER  
SATISFACTION• Reduce our Recordable  
Case Rate* every year  
by 10%
• A maximum of four  
serious injuries a year  
by 2020**
• Be in the industry’s  
top quartile in terms  
of safety results 
FURTHER IMPROVE  
OUR SAFETY  
RECORD
• Six-point increase in  
overall employee  
satisfaction from  
a 2014 baseline
ENGAGE OUR   
PEOPLE
PEOPLE
We will ensure our people  
are safe, skilled, motivated,  
and engaged
• At least one community  
activity per site  
every year
STRENGTHEN OUR 
COMMUNITIES
3737 
ALIGNING OUR INDUSTRY WITH THE  
UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
European Aluminium has linked its Sustainability Roadmap  
to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),  
giving Constellium a framework to work on our own. 
Connecting the Roadmap to the SDGs
As a member of European Aluminium, 
80-plus companies and organizations 
representing the entire aluminium value 
chain, Constellium supports the associ -
ation’s Sustainability Roadmap Towards 
2025 and we have aligned our sustaina -
bility targets with it. 
In 2018 our industry decided to link 
the Roadmap to the SDGs, which we 
consider a key standard for sustainabil -
ity. European Aluminium turned to CSR 
Europe, a business network dedicated 
to corporate social responsibility, for 
help in evaluating the Roadmap and 
identifying goals and actions for 2025 
and beyond. 
The final report determined that 
there are clear connections between 
 European  Aluminium’s  sustainability 
goals and a number of SDGs. It found 
that we could maximize our industry’s 
 positive  impact and business oppor -
tunities by focusing on eight SDGs in 
 particular: quality education;  gender 
“By linking our 
Sustainability Roadmap 
to the SDGs, European 
Aluminium is striving  
to make the Roadmap 
as effective as it can be. 
Constellium is a valuable 
partner in this effort. ”
Coline Lavorel, 
Director Public Affairs and Communications, 
European AluminiumWe are taking our c ommitm ent to the next level  Combining alu minium  
and the S DGs towards  
a sustainable future
8 SDGs w ith the bigg est impact for change  
Our 4 foc us areas
Follow us 
www .european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability
       @ EU_Aluminium    # aluminium2025 Decarbonisation 
through energy 
efﬁciency and 
clean energyFuture of  
skills and 
educationCircularity and 
new business 
model sCollaboration 
for innovation
We are taking our c ommitm ent to the next level  Combining alu minium  
and the S DGs towards  
a sustainable future
8 SDGs w ith the bigg est impact for change  
Our 4 foc us areas
Follow us 
www .european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability
       @ EU_Aluminium    # aluminium2025 Decarbonisation 
through energy 
efﬁciency and 
clean energyFuture of  
skills and 
educationCircularity and 
new business 
model sCollaboration 
for innovation
We are taking our c ommitm ent to the next level  Combining alu minium  
and the S DGs towards  
a sustainable future
8 SDGs w ith the bigg est impact for change  
Our 4 foc us areas
Follow us 
www .european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability
       @ EU_Aluminium    # aluminium2025 Decarbonisation 
through energy 
efﬁciency and 
clean energyFuture of  
skills and 
educationCircularity and 
new business 
model sCollaboration 
for innovation
We are taking our c ommitm ent to the next level  Combining alu minium  
and the S DGs towards  
a sustainable future
8 SDGs w ith the bigg est impact for change  
Our 4 foc us areas
Follow us 
www .european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability
       @ EU_Aluminium    # aluminium2025 Decarbonisation 
through energy 
efﬁciency and 
clean energyFuture of  
skills and 
educationCircularity and 
new business 
model sCollaboration 
for innovation We are taking our c ommitm ent to the next level  Combining alu minium  
and the S DGs towards  
a sustainable future
8 SDGs w ith the bigg est impact for change  
Our 4 foc us areas
Follow us 
www .european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability
       @ EU_Aluminium    # aluminium2025 Decarbonisation 
through energy 
efﬁciency and 
clean energyFuture of  
skills and 
educationCircularity and 
new business 
model sCollaboration 
for innovation
We are taking our c ommitm ent to the next level  Combining alu minium  
and the S DGs towards  
a sustainable future
8 SDGs w ith the bigg est impact for change  
Our 4 foc us areas
Follow us 
www .european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability
       @ EU_Aluminium    # aluminium2025 Decarbonisation 
through energy 
efﬁciency and 
clean energyFuture of  
skills and 
educationCircularity and 
new business 
model sCollaboration 
for innovation
We are taking our c ommitm ent to the next level  Combining alu minium  
and the S DGs towards  
a sustainable future
8 SDGs w ith the bigg est impact for change  
Our 4 foc us areas
Follow us 
www .european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability
       @ EU_Aluminium    # aluminium2025 Decarbonisation 
through energy 
efﬁciency and 
clean energyFuture of  
skills and 
educationCircularity and 
new business 
model sCollaboration 
for innovation
We are taking our c ommitm ent to the next level  Combining alu minium  
and the S DGs towards  
a sustainable future
8 SDGs w ith the bigg est impact for change  
Our 4 foc us areas
Follow us 
www .european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability
       @ EU_Aluminium    # aluminium2025 Decarbonisation 
through energy 
efﬁciency and 
clean energyFuture of  
skills and 
educationCircularity and 
new business 
model sCollaboration 
for innovationWe are taking our c ommitm ent to the next level  Combining alu minium  
and the S DGs towards  
a sustainable future
8 SDGs w ith the bigg est impact for change  
Our 4 foc us areas
Follow us 
www .european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability
       @ EU_Aluminium    # aluminium2025 Decarbonisation 
through energy 
efﬁciency and 
clean energyFuture of  
skills and 
educationCircularity and 
new business 
model sCollaboration 
for innovation
 equality; affordable and clean ener -
gy; decent work and economic growth;  
industry, innovation, and infrastructure; 
responsible consumption and produc -
tion; climate action; and partnerships 
for the goals. 
Areas of Greatest Impact
These SDGs intersect with four areas 
where our sector has significant 
economic, environmental, and social 
impact: decarbonization through 
energy efficiency and clean energy, 
the future of skills and education, 
circularity and new business models, 
and collaboration for innovation. 
In practice, we can reduce CO2 emissions 
by enhancing energy efficiency and in -
creasing our use of renewables. We can boost our socio-economic contribution 
by doing more for our employees and the 
communities where we operate.
As for collaborative innovation,   
European Aluminium has an Innova -
tion Hub, a community of companies 
conducting research for a more sus -
tainable future. One of its actions is 
finding ways to make products more 
sustainable and durable. To drive this, 
the Hub is part of the EU “Factories of 
the Future” platform.
3738 39SUSTAINABLE VALUE   
Constellium conducted its second Materiality Assessment in 2017-2018.  
By asking internal and external stakeholders, we developed a series of actions  
to align our sustainability efforts with their priorities. RESPONDING TO OUR   
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
“Shift is pleased to support Constellium as the 
company starts identifying potential human rights 
risks across its value chain, and exploring ways to 
mitigate them. ”
Susannah McLaren, 
Advisor, Shiftoperations, its development phase, size, 
local culture, applicable regulations,  
and/or social situation. 
In April 2019, we organized a global 
 workshop with leadership from dif -
ferent key functions to discuss these 
risks. It produced a Constellium human 
rights heat map which was present-
ed to the Executive Committee. Now 
that we have a global understanding 
of the risks, we are working on an ac-
tion plan to mitigate them. Some of our 
next steps are to provide more extensive 
training on our Code of Conduct and 
to work on increasing gender diversity.  
We are also  developing an e-learning 
course, expected to be available in 2019.
Business Ethics
We reworked our Supplier Code of 
Conduct to take into account our 
human rights and labor practices 
policies, as well as new legislation 
against corruption. As a result, com-
pliance and sustainability now go 
hand in hand. Our anti-corruption 
due diligence process now contains 
both legal and sustainability require-
ments, especially in our supply chain.Communication  
and Training
We have made progress on both topics. 
We created onsite sustainability training 
sessions for Sales, Purchasing, and R&D 
functions, and an e-learning module is 
under development. We also increased 
the frequency of internal communica-
tions about our achievements. We com-
municate regularly with our customers on 
our sustainability targets and meet with 
industry associations and NGOs, particu-
larly through our engagement with the 
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative and 
multi-stakeholder awareness programs 
such as Every Can Counts.
Reducing the Impact  
of Operations
This topic is high on our sustainabil -
ity agenda, especially the two most  
material items: reducing landfill waste  
and increasing energy efficiency.   
Both are part of our 2020 sustainabil -
ity targets. We work to ensure that our  
employees fully undestand these  
concepts and make them part of their 
daily work routines at all our sites.  
(See pp.  47-48 for more information.)
Our GHG Target
Reducing our carbon footprint is still a 
work in progress. We have defined targets 
for certain sites, but a global approach 
has proven to be more challenging, due 
to the evolution of both our production 
volumes and product mix. We expect to 
establish an overall target and will com-
municate it at that time.Human Rights
We strengthened Constellium’s hu -
man rights and labor practices policies, 
so that they are aligned with the UN  
Guiding Principles on Business and  
Human Rights and other internationally 
recognized standards. We established 
these principles not only for our own 
operations and employees, but for our 
business partners and suppliers, too. 
The policy appears in our new Code of 
Conduct, published in several languages. 
We also incorporated the topic of human 
rights into our Responsible Supply Chain 
Management Policy, implemented via our 
supply chain due diligence process.
In the fourth quarter of 2018, we launched 
a human rights due diligence process with 
the help of Shift, a non-profit organization, 
to assess existing or potential risks 
across our operations. Our Sustainability 
team conduc  ted workshops with the 
management teams of several of our 
plants in different business units and 
geographic locations. At this early stage 
of the process, we could see that our own 
operations do not generate major risks of 
human rights violations, but we identified 
areas of risk and areas that could be 
improved, related to the nature of a plant’s 39*We included this topic in the matrix because of its high rating despite the small number of external stakeholders who rated it (10).1.  l Recycling
2.    l Being innovative
3.  l  Improving customer satisfaction
4.   l  Developing products with  
environmental benefits
5.   l Ensuring gender equity*
6.  l  Improving safety at work
7.  l Preventing pollution 8.   l Reducing use of harmful substances
9.   l Reducing GHG emissions
10.   l Energy efficiency
11.   l Increasing economic performance
12.   l Reducing landfill waste
13.   l Preventing forced/compulsory labor
14.   l Enforcing the respect of human rights15.   l Business ethics
16.   l Complying with public policies
1 7.    l Enforcing freedom of association
18.   l Preventing child labor
19.   l Responsible purchasing
20.   l  Transparency and respect of 
confidentialityTHE PRIORITIES OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
Note: This graph shows only the scores that received a minimum  
of 8 out of 10 in terms of importance to stakeholders.
External stakeholders
PRODUCTS
PEOPLE
OPERATIONS
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS5
13
61
2
4314
16
17
910
11
128
7
19
2015
Internal stakeholdersVERY IMPORTANT
VERY IMPORTANTIMPORTANT
IMPORTANT1840 41SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABLE VALUE  
Communication Station
Our Muscle Shoals factory is a huge site with 
1,200+ employees, around one-third of whom 
lack a business email address. Seeking to bring 
managers closer to employees, especially those 
on the shop floor, the Communications team 
interviewed employees about their needs, then 
created and manufactured 27 “Communication 
Stations. ” Located in break rooms, these stations 
display announcements about everything 
from EHS to financial performance, human 
resources, and employee events such as the 
Family Fun Day picnic or Walk for Alzheimer’s. 
Each Station includes a drop box for donations to 
the Constellium Cares community engagement 
program. In 2019 we will add interactive tablets 
so that employees can register for training, 
look for internal job postings, access EHS 
information, or simply browse our intranet.
Airbus  
approves 
Airbus created the SQIP 
(Supply Chain & Quality 
Improvement Program) 
challenge in 2015 to track 
its suppliers’ performances, 
product quality, and ability  
to meet deadlines. 
Since then, our 
Ravenswood, Montreuil-
Juigné, and Issoire plants 
have greatly improved their 
production, supply chain, 
and quality performances. 
As a result of these efforts, Constellium 
received a 2018 award for “Best Improver” at 
Airbus’ headquarters in Toulouse.
“It is the first thing we turn  
to when we come in the break  
room. It is vital to how we  
know what goes on in the plant. ”
Kenny Greenhill,
Casthouse Production Operator, Muscle Shoals   Muscle Shoals operators signing up for events at the Communication Station.
Transparency Collaboration Empowerment
Safety Trust Respect
Mom entum
In 2018, we saw the full roll-out of 
MOMENTUM, a company-wide program  
to communicate our mission, strategy, 
and values to employees.41THE ABILITIES  
OF ALL
Constellium Ussel reached the 
legal requirement of 6 percent 
of disabled employees in 2018, 
and went even further by working 
with Cap Emploi 19 and Agefish 
Limousin to adapt jobs to 
different abilities. In 2019, Ussel 
is pursuing its commitment to 
open its doors to all workers and 
accommodate diversity within the 
plant with a program called RQTH 
– Reconnaissance de la qualité de 
travailleur handicapé  (Recognizing 
the qualities of disabled workers).
Closing the gender gap
French law now requires all companies with at least 
1,000 employees to measure salary differences between 
women and men through a gender equality index.  
Our sites at Issoire and Neuf-Brisach both performed 
well for the 2018 reporting period, with an overall score  
of 86/100 and 84/100 respectively, both comfortably 
above the required minimum. Each plant scored 
particularly well on promotions and salary increases of 
women. We are now looking at proactively increasing the 
number of women on the shop floor and in engineering 
and management positions at both plants, and more 
generally throughout the group.
BEFORE
AFTER
(Environmentally) Friendly competition  
Our Decín plant discovered that a spirit of competition can be a great 
boost to sustainability efforts. Since 2008, the plant has hosted an 
employee contest to spark enthusiasm for environmentally friendly 
measures while encouraging better business practices. 
The contest is organized into categories, encouraging workers to 
prevent environmental incidents or unnecessary pollution, use fewer 
hazardous chemicals, produce less waste, and reuse and recycle.  
(The categories can be modified according to the plant’s needs.) 
Results are published quarterly and the competition lasts one calendar 
year, at the end of which winners receive awards in each category. Best 
of all, the contest has produced serious results – for example, Decín’s 
employees now recycle more than 90% of the plant’s waste.ˇˇ
ˇˇ  Left to right: Jiˇ rí Palma, Plant Manager, Ondˇ rej Pech, Central Maintenance 
EHS Coordinator – representative winner team 2018, Ondˇ rej Lahodný, 
Environmental Specialist Carole Peltre, Supply Chain and Quality Improvement Program leader, Issoire42 43PRODUCTS
INCREASING   
RECYCLING RATES
We participate in the European 
Aluminium Packaging Group’s efforts to 
increase aluminium recycling rates, and 
are pleased to see that this collective 
undertaking is paying off. Throughout the 
continent (EU 28 + EFTA), there is an 
upward trend in beverage can recycling 
rates, which vary from one country to 
another. In 2015, it reached a record level 
of 73.6%, just shy of European 
Aluminium’s voluntary 75% target, and on 
track to reach the 2020 target of 80%. 
Our industry’s efforts take place on two 
fronts. One is legislative: the European 
Aluminium Packaging Group, supported 
by the association, lobbies European 
Union legislators to ensure that the law 
helps boost aluminium packaging 
recycling rates, particularly for beverage 
cans. A recycling roadmap for aluminium 
cans is expected to be published in 2019. 
The member states are now working on 
implementation of the Circular Economy 
Package. We also reach consumers 
through education and communication.  
For example, the Every Can Counts (ECC) 
program, now present in 15 countries, encourages beverage can recycling on 
the go. Thanks to recycling at festivals 
and events, a women’s cycling team 
partnership, and social media 
campaigns, beverage can recycling 
continues to increase. 
While aluminum beverage cans remain 
the most recycled beverage packaging 
2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSConstellium works to improve aluminium beverage can recycling rates in Europe 
and North America in a variety of ways: by supporting education and promotion, 
creating partnerships with organizations, conducting studies, gathering data,  
and influencing legislation.
2020 TARGET  
• 80% beverage can recycling rate in Europe
• Increase beverage can recycling rate in U .S. 
“In 2019, Every Can 
Counts celebrates its 
10th birthday and reaffirms 
the industry’s voluntary 
commitment to recycle 
every beverage can  
across Europe. ”
Ramon Arratia,
Public Affairs and Sustainability Director, Ball 
Beverage Packaging Europe, and Chair, Every 
Can Counts
• Published in 2018, the average aluminium  
can recycling rate in Europe reached  
73.6% in 2015• Further support European  
and U .S. Industry programs  
to increase aluminium  
packaging recyclingtype in the United States, recycling  
rates are lower than in Europe. Together 
with the Aluminum Association and  
the Can Manufacturers Institute, and  
in collaboration with canmakers and  
can sheet producers, we are working  
to improve data collection and  
shape legislation.“Pixelata, ” a wall image created from 2,000 beverage 
cans for Every Can Counts 43PRODUCTS
ENSURING   
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION  
Aerospace and Transportation received 
very high marks in 2018, with 88% of 
customers saying they are satisfied with  
our products and services – notably 
sustainability, sales, products, and 
technical support. Packaging and 
Automotive Rolled Products also saw  
a rise in satisfaction, especially for 
technical support/claims management 
and supply chain. 
Automotive Structures and Industry 
continues to serve customers’ needs by 
reducing time-to-market and developing 
new lightweighting solutions for all types of vehicles. In 2018 we added 
prototyping and testing aluminium 
automotive components to our services 
at the University Technology Center in 
Brunel. We were especially pleased by  
Constellium’s Net Promoter Score (NPS), 
which asks customers if they would rec -
ommend a company as a supplier. All of 
our business units performed signifi -
cantly above the industry benchmark. 
Focus on customers
Constellium is deepening our relationship 
with Daimler by supplying the new 
2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSConstellium is constantly looking for ways in which our products and services can 
better anticipate and respond to our customers’ needs. In 2018, our three business 
units conducted their latest customer satisfaction surveys. Positive results 
reflected our efforts and showed we are on the right path.
2020 TARGET  
• Conduct a customer  
satisfaction survey every two years  
for all business units 
“Your average on-time 
delivery score over the 
last three months was 
100 points. This is an 
excellent score, and we 
know it is well deserved. ”
Marc Ploeg,
Purchaser, Voestalpine Automotive  
Components Bunschoten B.V. 
• All business units  
conducted customer surveys  
and implemented actions  
based on the results• Sustain the same  
high level of satisfaction  
and close collaboration  
with customers Mercedes-Benz A-Class with Crash 
Management Systems and structural 
components. For Audi, another long-
time customer, we are the primary 
supplier of automotive body sheets for 
closures and inner parts of the new A6. 
We also expanded our Dahenfeld, 
Germany, plant to supply a new premium 
sports car with advanced aluminium 
structural assemblies. 
We have been flying high ever since  
the Airbus Supply Chain and Quality 
Improvement Program (SQIP) recognized 
Constellium with its “Best Improver” award.We supply the Airbus A35044 45FOCUSING OUR EFFORTS  
ON SAFETY
Our 2018 safety record gave us  
many reasons to be proud.  
Our 2.28% recordable case rate was  
an improvement over 2017 and 21% 
better than our target. Two of our 
plants, Singen Extrusions and Dˇ eˇ cín, 
reached 1.5 million working hours 
without a recordable case, while three 
others reached a one-million-hour 
milestone. Six plants finished the year 
without a single recordable injury case.
Serious injury cases decreased from 
14 in 2017 to three in 2018. Tragically, 
one was a fatality, at our Neuf-Brisach 
plant. This terrible incident proved that  
we must keep working to enhance our 
SIF program, the observance of Golden 
Rules, and peer-to-peer interaction 
(“see something, say something”).
Our 14th annual EHS FIRST Day was held 
on September 18, and focused on our 
ongoing efforts to prevent serious 
injuries and fatalities. A new video with 
messages from the CEO and the plant 
manager of Neuf-Brisach highlighted 
the importance of SIF. We launched the 
EHS FIRST leadership training program in September, training 52 managers  
in key leadership positions at our  
plants in Singen, Van Buren, Issoire,  
and Neuf-Brisach. 
Videos and testimonials are a great tool 
for safety awareness and for changing 
behaviors by reaching people at an 
emotional level. We have been using 
videos to train operators in subjects 
2020 TARGET  
• Reduce Recordable Case Rate* by 10% annually
• No more than 4 serious injuries a year 
• Be in the industry’s top quartile  
for safety results
2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSSafety is at the heart of everything we do. We are constantly looking for ways to 
improve upon EHS, and rolled out our Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) P revention 
program, a top priority, in 2018. At the same time, we highlighted the importance  
of our Golden Rules and employee peer-to-peer interaction.
such as SIF risks and line-of-fire hazards. 
The EHS network also learned to make 
their own videos with a smartphone app. 
In addition, we held two EHS networking 
meetings, at Dˇ eˇ cín and Muscle Shoals, 
attended by site management and 
staff. Both meetings featured site visits 
and shop floor exercises as well as 
shared practice competitions.PEOPLE
A team leader explains the Golden Rules to his colleagues on our annual EHS FIRST Day
* Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities,  
serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries,  
or medical treatments per one million hours worked.• A drop in our recordable  
case rate to 2.28%
• The number of serious  
injury cases decreased from  
14 in 2017 to 3 in 2018• Keep reducing our recordable case rate 
• Higher maturity of SIF prevention process 
• Better employee  
peer-to-peer interaction 45ENGAGING   
OUR PEOPLE
More than 9,000 employees responded to 
our 2018 survey, for a record participation 
rate of 78%. We noted progress in all 
categories and statistically significant 
improvement overall compared with prior 
surveys in 2014 and 2016. 
We even outperformed our 2020 target 
with a 10-point increase in employee 
satisfaction, compared with the 2014 
baseline. With a nine-point gain for the 
“Leadership” related questions, the survey 
showed that our employees better 
understand how the company plans to 
move forward and the role they play in our 
goals. We took particular pride in the 
number of employees who would recom -
mend Constellium as a good place to work, 
a score that rose by nine points. All sites 
shared their results with management 
and employees. They defined local action 
plans linked to training and development, 
EHS, leadership, and company culture; 
more than half of the actions are al  ready 
being implemented. Our MOMENTUM 
program also gained traction. In the U.S., 
Ravenswood, WV has trained its 
leadership team and is now training 
employees. Automotive Structures North America provided training sessions to 
salaried and hourly employees. Van Bu -
ren, MI, and White, GA, created safety 
helmet stickers with MOMENTUM values 
to raise awareness. In Europe, C-TEC and 
Issoire organized focus groups to discuss 
2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSWe accomplished two major employee engagement goals in 2018. Our Global 
Employee Survey was a success, showing that our people are increasingly satisfied 
at work. The year also saw the full roll-out of MOMENTUM, a company-wide program  
to communicate our mission, strategy, and values to employees.
2020 TARGET  
• A six-point increase in employee  
satisfaction vs. 2014
PEOPLE
MOMENTUM’s values, and Issoire created 
an in-house contest. The Neuf-Brisach 
plant is using MOMENTUM’s video as 
briefing material for recruitment 
agencies. At Singen, MOMENTUM is part 
of the onboarding process for new hires. 
• A 10-point increase in employee  
satisfaction in the Global  
Employee Survey
• Full roll-out of MOMENTUM• Continue to implement  
local action plans based  
on the survey results
For casthouse employees at Issoire, “collaboration is 
team work promoting mutual assistance, listening, 
communication, and solidarity”“MOMENTUM is a way 
for Ravenswood to walk 
the walk. Actions speak 
louder than words. ”
Hannah Bolyard,
HR Business Partner, Ravenswood
“Respect is the most 
important value to me. 
Treat others as you 
would like to be treated, 
plain and simple. ”
Brianna Montgomery,
Purchasing Analyst, Van Buren46 47PEOPLE
STRENGTHENING  
COMMUNITIES
In 2018, Ravenswood once again organized 
the “Paint the Plant Pink” initiative, hosting 
a 5 km run to support the American 
Cancer Society. Ravenswood employees 
volunteered for Habitat for Humanity, 
permitting underprivileged families to 
obtain safe, suitable housing, and they 
helped retirees to maintain their yards.  
Van Buren participated in a run  
for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital.  
The plant also supports Toys for Tots, 
Gleaners Community Food Bank, and  
the Ronald McDonald House of Ann Arbor, 
which houses the families of children 
receiving medical treatment. 
In White, Georgia, plant managers played 
games and conducted team-building 
exercises with adults with intellectual 
and developmental disabilities at Hickory 
Log Vocational School.
Our employees in Mexico spent a day 
with orphaned children, collected 
Christmas toys for children with cancer, 
and helped with upkeep at the local 
orphanage. 
Constellium Paris ordered Christmas 
baskets from a company that employs 
mostly handicapped people, and donated 80 to underprivileged people 
through another association. 
At Issoire, employees raced for 
hospitalized children and to fight breast 
cancer. Issoire signed an agreement to 
accommodate its employees in the 
military reserve, and many employees 
turned out to support the local Ailes & 
Volcans aeronautic event. Singen and 
Gottmadingen employees participated in 
the Stadtradeln event,  leaving  their cars 
2020 TARGET  
• At least one community activity  
per site every year
2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSOur sites support their local communities in a variety of different ways.  
Constellium employees around the world proudly volunteer their time  
and effort to improve the lives of others.
at home for 21 days and cycling to work to 
build climate awareness. They also ran in  
a charity event for the disabled in BeTreff 
Lauf. Constellium partnered with 
American Corporate Partners (ACP) to 
help veterans transition to the private 
sector. Volunteers from Ravenswood, 
Muscle Shoals, Van Buren, White, Bowling 
Green, and Baltimore serve as mentors, 
providing advice on their long-term career 
development.San Luis Potosí plant Open Day
• Most of our sites 
conducted a community 
program or event• Continue to develop 
community programs 
at all sites
47MINIMIZING   
LANDFILL WASTE  
In 2018 we maintained a recycling rate  
of 80% and an incineration rate of 4%, 
while sending 16% of waste to landfill. 
The landfill waste we create is 
technically difficult to recycle and 
mostly concentrated at large sites  
that lack proper measures for dealing 
with municipal waste. To reduce it, 
Ravenswood is considering recycling 
baghouse dust, while Muscle Shoals  
is appointing a specialized contractor  
to manage waste and recycling of 
refractory bricks, wood, and baghouse 
dust. Muscle Shoals also hopes to 
improve municipal waste sorting and to 
recycle the less reactive types of sludge. 
Many sites have made good progress. 
Ravenswood initiated a program  
to address most of the flue gas dust  
it produces. Ussel started evacuating 
sand that cannot be recycled, and 
should remove the last of it in 2019.  
At Issoire, the salt slag is being recycled 
again after a year-long break. 
However, it will be challenging to 
achieve the target at Issoire and 
Neuf-Brisach if we are unable to find a sustainable solution for recycling flue 
gas dust, sludge, and bricks from 
furnaces. Another challenge is to reduce 
the amount of waste sent to landfill at 
U.S. sites. We have seen that a 
competitive spirit can help motivate 
2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSAlthough we increased our production in 2018 and produced 3,000 metric tons 
more waste than in 2017 , our landfill waste decreased by 2%. And yet we must 
reduce it by 20% more to reach our 2020 target. To do so, we are pursuing action 
plans and finding ways to get everyone involved.
2020 TARGET  
• Reduce production waste going  
to landfill by 10% vs. 2015  
“Through better 
tracking and waste 
mapping, Muscle 
Shoals reduced its 2018 
landfill by over 3 million 
pounds. By partnering 
with a waste contractor 
and educating our 
employees on this 
culture change, we are 
confident of achieving 
our goals. ”
Benjamin Yancey,
Director Environmental Services,  
Muscle Shoals
• The quantity of waste sent to landfill  
decreased by 2% vs. 2017  
(but was still above 2015 levels)• New waste management contract  
at Muscle Shoals
• Find technical solutions  
for specific production waste such as sludge, 
flue-gas dust, and refractory bricksOPERATIONS
people. Some years ago, we started a 
recycling contest at D ěčín, challenging 
workers to separate recyclable 
components of mixed municipal waste.  
As a result, the site’s waste recycling  
has risen to over 90%.  Ussel started evacuating sand that cannot be 
recycled, and should remove the last of it in 201948 49BOOSTING   
OUR ENERGY EFFICIENCY
A general improvement in energy 
efficiency resulted from the actions 
undertaken at all our plants, including 
equipment efficiency, recovery increase, 
process monitoring, and better use  
of furnaces.
As for individual sites, our efforts 
produced the best results at 
Ravenswood, Issoire, Singen, and  
Valais. Muscle Shoals, whose energy 
consumption accounts for a significant 
portion of the Group total, started  
to make progress, especially in the 
second half of 2018. We expect this  
trend to continue with the site’s recent 
decision to join the U.S. Department  
of Energy “50001 Ready” program  
for energy management.
Aerospace and Transportation  
was ahead of target at most plants.  
Some success stories really stood out, 
such as superior performance at Issoire 
resulting from several major projects: 
state-of-the-art high capacity holding  
and melting furnaces, electromagnetic 
stirring for melting furnaces, optimized production routes, LED lighting, 
improved management of heating and air 
conditioning, and more. At Ravenswood, 
the end of the ramp-up period for the new 
pusher furnace and better production 
efficiency contributed to strong global 
improvement as well.
Going forward, we expect every plant  
to put the necessary resources into 
managing energy efficiently, and  
to ensure that its energy action plan  
is in line with our 2020 target.
2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSWe saw excellent performance in 2018 and reached the year’s target for energy 
efficiency, improving it significantly at all business units and partially offsetting two 
years of underperformance. We must continue to seize all potential energy-saving 
opportunities in order to reach our 2020 goal. 
2020 TARGET  
• 10% energy efficiency  
improvement vs. 2015
“Energy efficiency is not 
only investment related. 
Improving everything 
we do – equipment 
performance, recovery, 
process control – has 
a significant impact on 
energy consumption. ”
Philippe Hoffmann,
Vice President Aerospace and Transportation 
Rolled Products Europe
• Improved energy efficiency  
by 4.7% over 2015, the equivalent  
of 270 GWh in energy savings• Focus on the less-performing sites 
• Identify and share more energy  
efficient solutions
• Continue to look for new opportunities  
to save energy in all areas of activity Issoire’s state-of-the-art holding and casting furnaces, equipped with electromagnetic stirring for better energy efficiency.OPERATIONS49“The efficient use  
of resources is key to 
our business, and ASI’s 
principles are in line  
with what we do. We were 
very interested when 
Constellium suggested 
we join ASI, and Singen 
has been quite helpful 
with the process. ”
Markus Wild,   
Managing Director, Stockach Aluminium GmbHWORKING TO ACHIEVE   
ASI CERTIFICATION
Constellium has been an active 
member of ASI since its beginning, 
helping the organization to achieve  
its goal of maximizing aluminium’s 
contribution to a sustainable society. 
In December 2017 , ASI successfully 
launched its certification program, 
which comprises a Performance 
Standard and a Chain of Custody 
Standard.
In 2018, ASI issued 10 certifications  
to companies representing different 
parts of the aluminium value chain. 
They also accredited seven more 
auditor firms. These independent 
auditors are responsible for 
administering ASI certifications,  
and now cover nearly every region 
where there is aluminium activity.
ASI had other positive new 
developments in 2018. Eighteen new 
members joined the organization, for  
a total of 76 members and counting.  
By demonstrating commitment to  
its Code of Good Practice, ASI became 
an associate member of the ISEAL Alliance, the global association  
for sustainability standards. 
Constellium was equally busy in 2018. 
We established a project team 
consisting of corporate and local 
members to work on certification  
for our Singen site. We set up a  
steering committee to ensure internal 
synergy and coherence so that  
we can get a head start on certifying 
our Neuf-Brisach plant as well.
An independent auditor performed  
a pre-audit of the Singen plant, and  
we used the results to work on closing 
any gaps in certification criteria. We 
continued to improve implementation 
of our Human Rights and Labor Practice 
Policy, including due diligence at Group 
level. We are making progress in 
applying our responsible purchasing 
policy to our supply chain, an important 
criteria for ASI certification.
To ensure our position as sellers of ASI 
metal, we collaborated with our key 
suppliers, encouraging and helping 
• A Performance  
Standard pre-audit of  
the Singen site was conducted
• The first full year of ASI certification  
implementation following  
its launch in 2017NEXT STEPS2018 marked the first full year of certification implementation for the Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative (ASI), a global, non-profit, multi-stakeholder organization  
for aluminium standards and certification. A founding ASI member, Constellium  
is working to have our first site certified in 2019. 
them to join ASI. Among these, the 
Stockach Aluminium recycling plant 
became an ASI member at the end of 
2018, and will now aim for certification. 
We also started discussions with 
several key metal suppliers and hope 
to work together for their certification 
in the near future.
2020 TARGET  
• Have at least one site  
ASI certified
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
• Have at least one plant certified  
for the Performance Standard
• Receive certification for  
the Chain of Custody Standard
• Ensure we are well positioned  
to sell ASI certified metal50 51“Through the workplace 
condition assessment 
we learned about 
sustainability trends  
in the industry, which  
will help us to keep 
improving and working 
better with customers. ”
Sue Fu,   
Deputy General Manager, Tianqi Lithium
“We worked hard to 
convince our key metal 
suppliers to participate  
in improving our  
business’ sustainability . 
We are proud of what  
we achieved. ”
Thierry Chiarami,   
Senior Sourcing Manager, Rolling Slabs  
and Extrusion Billets, ConstelliumCOMMITTING TO   
RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING
Constellium published its responsible 
supply chain management policy  
in 2017 , clearly stating our approach 
and setting out rules for the Group  
and our suppliers. 
Among its requirements, all contracted 
suppliers are to sign on to our Supplier 
Code of Conduct, which outlines our 
expectations of supplier behavior 
regarding the environment, society, 
business ethics, human rights, and 
labor practices. We updated this 
document in 2018 based on the latest 
supply chain laws and internationally 
recognized standards. Notably, the 
sections on human rights and business 
ethics are now more comprehensive.
We ask key suppliers to perform a 
self-assessment every three years 
using the EcoVadis platform. As for 
those whose locations or sectors  
put them at greater risk of divergent 
practices, we perform an onsite 
workplace audit every three years.  
We organize webinars to make sure  
our suppliers understand the reasons for these actions and the processes  
to follow. And we train our purchasing 
teams, giving them the tools and 
knowledge to bring suppliers on board 
and accompany them throughout  
the process.
In 2018, we made substantial progress  
in conducting these evaluations  
with our metal and energy suppliers, 
and expanded our scope to include  
key suppliers to our main sites.  
We asked 44 suppliers to go through  
the EcoVadis assessment, and carried  
out one onsite audit. We also helped 
suppliers take corrective actions 
recommended by the assessment  
or audit when necessary. 
Constellium’s own EcoVadis rating has 
continuously improved since 2013, 
thanks to our responsible purchasing 
practices. Supplier assessment is not 
simply a perfunctory exercise for us.  
We see it as an opportunity to work 
together for continuous improvement, 
and we believe it helps to build strong, 
long-term relationships.
• Updated our Supplier Code of Conduct,  
asked more suppliers to sign off
• Performed 44 new EcoVadis evaluations
• Conducted one onsite Workplace Condition 
Assessment and worked with previously  
audited suppliers on corrective actionsNEXT STEPSWe must ensure that sustainability is practiced at every step of our business,  
including the supply chain. That’s why Constellium seeks to work exlusively with 
suppliers who comply with applicable laws and adhere to sustainable practices in 
governance, the environment, and society. 
2020 TARGET  
• Evaluate key supplier sustainability  
performance 
• Undertake onsite audits of at-risk suppliers 
• Ensure contracted suppliers sign  
our Code of Conduct 
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
• Continue to implement our responsible  
supply chain management policy, including 
asking for sign-offs on our new Supplier Code  
of Conduct and conducting due diligence 51Our Singen, Gottmadingen,  
and Dahenfeld sites have jointly 
committed to a 10% GHG 
emissions intensity reduction 
from 2015 to 2020. We expect this 
target to be met thanks to our 
energy efficiency improvement 
program at each site. Improved energy efficiency is how  
we work to decrease our scope 1* and 
scope 2* emissions, since most are related 
to energy use. We saved over 60,000 metric 
tons of CO2-equivalent emissions in 2018 
versus 2015, thanks to our energy 
efficiency program. 
We also aim to reduce emissions indirectly 
by improving the life cycle performance  
of products. First, we work on better 
product design – for example, lighter  
parts for automobiles and other trans -
portation to reduce fuel consumption.  
Second, we recycle pre- and post-
consumer aluminium scrap, since recycling 
produces much lower emissions than 
primary metal production.  
Life cycle analyses demonstrate the 
benefits of both approaches. 
Beyond these key actions, we also offer 
services to optimize the value chain  
in other areas. For instance, thanks to  
our machining facilities at our aero  space ADDRESSING GREENHOUSE   
GAS EMISSIONS
At Constellium, we monitor and disclose our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
and have been doing so for years. In 2018, our GHG emissions remained globally 
stable or decreased slightly, even though our production volumes rose  
and our product mix evolved towards more energy-intensive products.
NEXT STEPS 
  Continue to work on energy 
efficiency, as this is the core  
of our activity
  Define an emissions reduction  
target for Constellium 
  Ensure that Singen, 
Gottmadingen, and Dahenfeld 
reach their target by 2020
SCOPE DEFINITIONS*:
SCOPE 1:   
Direct emissions from sources  
we own or control  
 
 SCOPE 2:   
Indirect emissions from  
production of the energy  
we purchase (electricity)GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (k T CO2eq)
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
 2015    2016    2017    2018
752 751759
SCOPE 1756
SCOPE 2434 455 456 441
SCOPE 1+21, 1861,206 1,2151, 194plants, we are able to provide pre-
machined parts, allowing our customers to 
generate less scrap. The off-cuts and chips 
generated by pre-machining are then  
recycled at our plants, thus limiting CO2 
emissions linked to transportation.  
It must be noted that all the aforementioned 
life cycle gains come at the price of higher 
GHG emissions in our company (scope 1 and 
2), while reductions of emissions associated 
with our activity occur mostly outside our 
plants. This largely explains why our energy 
use and GHG emissions are not decreasing 
as fast as our energy efficiency is 
improving. GHG target frameworks 
recommend that avoided emissions not be 
counted, and we acknowledge the 
potential issue of double counting. 
However, we find that disregarding certain 
avoided emissions is problematic for 
companies engaged in recycling and other 
positive actions that come at the price of 
higher emissions in their own purview. 52 53PERFORMANCE   
REPORT
Consolidated income statement  Consolidated statement  
of financial position  Consolidated statement of cash flows 
 Share information  United Nations Global Compact  
Communication on Progress  GRI content index 53(in millions of euros)Year ended 
December 31, 2018Year ended 
December 31, 2017 Year ended 
December 31, 2016
Revenue 5,686 5,237 4,743
Cost of sales (5, 148) (4,682) (4,208)
Gross profit 538 555 535
Selling and administrative expenses (247) (247) (253)
Research and development expenses (40) (36) (31)
Restructuring costs (1) (4) (5)
Other gains / (losses) - net 154 70 21
Income from operations 404 338 267
Finance costs - net (149) (260) (188)
Share of loss of joint-ventures (33) (29) (14)
Income before income tax 222 49 65
Income tax expense (32) (80) (69)
Net income / (loss) 190 (31) (4)
Net income / (loss) attributable to:
Equity holders of Constellium 188 (31) (4)
Non-controlling interests 2 - -
Net income / (loss) 190 (31) (4)
(in euros per share)Year ended 
December 31, 2018Year ended 
December 31, 2017Year ended 
December 31, 2016
Basic 1.40 (0.28) (0.04)
Diluted 1.37 (0.28) (0.04)Consolidated income statement
Earnings per share attributable 
to the equity holders of Constellium
Note: More detailed information on our financial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at:  
 https:/ /www.constellium.com/investors/sec-filingsPERFORMANCE REPORT 2018  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS54 55(in millions of euros)At December 31, 
2018At December 31, 
2017
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 164 269
Trade receivables and other 587 419
Inventories 660 643
Other financial assets 30 69
1,441 1,400
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 1,666 1,517
Goodwill 422 403
Intangible assets 70 68
Investments accounted for under the equity method 1 1
Deferred income tax assets 163 164
Trade receivables and other 64 48
Other financial assets 74 110
2,460 2,311
Total Assets 3,901 3,711
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade payables and other 968 930
Borrowings 57 106
Other financial liabilities 60 23
Income tax payable 8 11
Provisions 46 40
1, 139 1, 110
Non-current liabilities
Trade payables and other 27 54
Borrowings 2,094 2,021
Other financial liabilities 29 43
Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 610 664
Provisions 94 113
Deferred income tax liabilities 22 25
2,876 2,920
Total Liabilities 4,015 4,030
Equity
Share capital 3 3
Share premium 420 420
Retained deficit and other reserves (545) (750)
Equity attributable to equity holders of Constellium (122) (327)
Non-controlling interests 8 8
Total Equity (114) (319)
Total Equity and Liabilities 3,901 3,711Consolidated statement of financial position55(in millions of euros)Year ended 
December 31, 2018Year ended 
December 31, 2017Year ended 
December 31, 2016
Net income / (loss) 190 (31) (4)
Adjustments
Depreciation and amortization 197 171 155
Finance costs - net 149 260 188
Income tax expense 32 80 69
Share of loss of joint-ventures 33 29 14
Unrealized losses / (gains) on derivatives - net and from  
remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities - net 86 (54) (74)
(Gains) / losses on disposal (186) 3 10
Other – net 14 7 (14)
Interest paid (129) (185) (174)
Income tax paid (23) (18) (14)
Change in trade working capital
Inventories (9) (99) (42)
Trade receivables (145) (91) 28
Trade payables (27) 124 (18)
Margin calls (5) — —
Change in provisions and pension obligations (58) (24) (26)
Other working capital (53) (12) (10)
Net cash flows from operating activities 66 160 88
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (277) (276) (355)
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired — — 21
Proceeds from disposals net of cash 200 2 (5)
Equity contribution and loan to joint-ventures (24) (41) (37)
Other investing activities 10 23 11
Net cash flows used in investing activities (91) (292) (365)
Net proceeds received from issuance of shares — 259 —
Proceeds from issuance of Senior Notes — 1,440 375
Repayment of Senior Notes — (1,559) (148)
(Repayments) / proceeds from revolving credit facilities and other loans (68) 29 (69)
Payment of deferred financing costs and exit fees — (118) (19)
Transactions with non-controlling interests — — (2)
Other financing activities (14) 10 8
Net cash flows (used in) / from financing activities (82) 61 145
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (107) (71) (132)
Cash and cash equivalents - beginning of year 269 347 472
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale - beginning of year — — 4
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 2 (7) 3
Cash and cash equivalents - end of year 164 269 347Consolidated statement of cash flows56 57
1. 1 MILLION(as of December 31, 2018)AVERAGE NUMBER 
OF DAILY SHARES 
TRADED IN 2018SHAREHOLDING 
STRUCTURE 
1. Bpifrance 12. 1%
2. Free float 87 .9%SHARE PRICE EVOLUTION IN US$
(FROM APRIL 2018)
 
15
12
9
6
3
APR 2018 MAY  2018 JUNE 2018 JULY  2018 AUG 2018 SEPT 2018 OCT 2018 NOV 2018 DEC 2018 JAN 2019 FEB 2019 MAR 2019 APR 2019
1
257PERFORMANCE REPORT 2018  
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
page Cross reference / additional information
CEO COMMITMENT OF UNGC 14-15 Interview
HUMAN RIGHTS
Principle 1: Businesses should support  
and respect the protection of internationally 
proclaimed human rights; 22, 36, 
38-39,
44, 49
50In 2018, we published our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices, which is aligned with 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The principles in the Policy have 
been integrated into our new Employee Code of Conduct, and we have launched a human 
rights due diligence process, to assess existing or potential risks across our operations.
Governance-Sustainability Council, Our Sustainability Target for 2020,  
Responding to our materiality assessment, Focusing our efforts on safety, Working to 
achieve ASI certification, Committing to responsible purchasing, and our Code of Conduct:  
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conductPrinciple 2: make sure that they are not  
complicit in human rights abuses.
LABOUR
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold  
the freedom of association and the effective 
recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
22, 36, 
38-39,
49, 50In 2018, we published our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices, which is aligned with 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The principles in the Policy have 
been integrated into our new Employee Code of Conduct, and we have launched a human 
rights due diligence process, to assess existing or potential risks across our operations.
Governance-Sustainability Council, Our Sustainability Target for 2020,  
Responding to our materiality assessment, Working to achieve ASI certification, 
Committing to responsible purchasing, and our Code of Conduct:  
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conductPrinciple 4: the elimination of all forms  
of forced and compulsory labour;
Principle 5: the effective abolition  
of child labour
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination  
in respect of employment and occupation.
ENVIRONMENT
Principle 7: Businesses should support  
a precautionary approach to  
environmental challenges;22, 36Our EHS Policy:
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/Sustainability/ehspolicy2016-eng_1.pdf  
Our Code of Conduct:  
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote 
greater environmental responsibility;41, 47 , 48, 
51Minimizing landfill waste, and Boosting our energy efficiency 
Principle 9: encourage the development and 
diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.24-26,  
30, 42Packaging, and Increasing recycling rates
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Principle 10: Businesses should work against 
corruption in all its forms, including extortion  
and bribery.38-39, 50Responding to our materiality assessment, Committing to responsible purchasing,  
Our Code of Conduct:  
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conductUnited Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 
Communication on Progress (CoP) - GC Active
In 2018, we published our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices, which is aligned with the  
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The principles in the Policy have been 
integrated into our new Employee Code of Conduct, and we have launched a human rights  
due diligence process, to assess existing or potential risks across our operations.58 59PRODUCTS Pages 42-43 for more information on Products
* This is the most recent data for Europe. Figures for this data-point take a long time to process and 2015 data was made available only by 2018.  
Since 2000, the beverage can recycling rate has seen tremendous improvement, from 43% (in 2000) to 73.6% (in 2015).ALUMINIUM BEVERAGE CAN RECYCLING RATES
80
70
60
50
40
 Europe*      U.S.75% target for 2015
54.5%
200043.0%48.4%
200246.0%49.2%
200145.0%56.7%
201472.9%
201554.5%
201649.4%
44.3%
200348.0%
45. 1%
200448.0%
45%
200552.0%
45.3%
200658.0%
48.5%
200761.8%
48.2%
200863. 1%
50.9%
200964.0%
49.7%
201066.7%
54. 1%
201168.3%
54.2%
201269.5%
54.9%
201371.3%
*  Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments 
per one million hours worked. Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in these statistics since 2008. Before that, 
only extended contractors such as canteen and security staff were included.RECORDABLE CASE RATE*
 Constellium     European Aluminium    U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics – AluminumPages 18 and 44 for more information about serious injuries
25
20
15
10
5
201711.5
200526.0
10.7
200619.0
8.4
200718.5
7. 2
200817 .5
6.2
200918.5
6.3
201015
6.9
201114
7. 8
201214
7. 8
201313.5
9.2
201416
7. 3
201510
7.1
20169
10.5
8.4
6.7
4.9
3.8 3.5 3.22.6 2.7 2.8 2.9
20183.3 3.22.38.2
6.373.6%59Apprentice Inactive Permanent Fixed-term Temporary (agency, excluding contractors)
ALL CONSTELLIUM
Number of employees  
with specific employment typeMale 231 21 54
Female 42 8 16 1
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - - 9,682 645
848
Female - - 1,317 134
Number of employees 
working full/part-timeFull-time 273 27 10,859 743
849
Part-time 0 2 210 36
Total 12,999
Total permanent and fixed terms 11,848
EUROPE   
Number of employees  
with specific employment typeMale 228 4
Female 41 6
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale 7 ,043 305
786
Female 868 62
Number of employees 
working full/part-timeFull-time 269 10 7 ,701 362
786
Part-time 0 0 210 5
Total 9,343
Total permanent and fixed terms 8,278
ASIA   
Number of employees  
with specific employment typeMale - 0
Female -
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - 10 315
1
Female - 12 49
Number of employees 
working full/part-timeFull-time - 0 22 333
1
Part-time - 31
Total 387
Total permanent and fixed terms 386
NORTH AMERICA (UNITED STATES, CANADA & MEXICO)  
Number of employees  
with specific employment typeMale 3 17 54
Female 1 2 16 1
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - 2,629 25
61
Female - 437 23
Number of employees 
working full/part-timeFull-time 4 19 3, 136 48
62
Part-time -
Total 3,269
Total permanent and fixed terms 3, 184GRI 102-8 INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERSPEOPLE Pages 44-46 for more information on People60 61GRI 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER
Apprentices and temporary fixed-term contract employees have been excluded, for accuracy in turnover rate calculation
Employee categoryNumber of  
new employees hired in 
2018Number of  
employees who left the 
Company in 2018Number of  
employees on  
December 31, 2018 Turnover rate
ALL CONSTELLIUM Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male
Under 30 years old 116 499 92 319 252 1,569 36.51% 20.33%
30-50 years old 186 664 142 394 849 5,449 16.73% 7 .23%
Over 50 years old 38 117 58 322 374 3,384 15.51% 9.52%
Total 340 1,280 292 1,035 1,475 10,402 19.80% 9.95%
EUROPE Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male
Under 30 years old 51 259 10 104 147 1,061 6.80% 9.80%
30-50 years old 73 297 29 162 551 3,866 5.26% 4. 19%
Over 50 years old 3 41 21 193 238 2,425 8.82% 7 .96%
Total 127 597 60 459 936 7 ,352 6.41% 6.24%
NORTH AMERICA Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male
Under 30 years old 62 165 80 145 95 387 84.21% 37 .47%
30-50 years old 99 244 109 182 251 1,385 43.43% 13. 14%
Over 50 years old 35 75 37 128 132 953 28.03% 13.43%
Total 196 484 226 455 478 2,725 47 .28% 16.70%
ASIA Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male
Under 30 years old 3 75 2 70 10 121 20.00% 57 .85%
30-50 years old 14 123 4 50 47 198 8.51% 25.25%
Over 50 years old 0 1 0 1 4 6 0.00% 16.67%
Total 17 199 6 121 61 325 9.84% 37 .23%
GRI 404-1 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE
Female Male Managers*Operators*Total employees
Average training hours/year/employee 23. 1 20.6 22.7 20.5 20.9
GRI 405-1 DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES
BOARD MEMBERS Female Male Total Age %
Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0%
30-50 years old 1 0 1 9%
Over 50 years old 2 8 10 91%
Total 3 8 11 100%
Gender % 27% 73% 100%* “Operators” refers to employees working on the shop floors; “managers” refers to employees with administrative or managerial roles.61ALL CONSTELLIUM Age ranges Female Male Total Age % % Female % Male
Executive Committee  
MembersUnder 30 years old 0 0 0 0%
30 - 50 years old 1 2 3 33%
Over 50 years old 0 6 6 67%
Subtotal 1 8 9 11% 89%
Vice Presidents & DirectorsUnder 30 years old 0 0 0 0%
30 - 50 years old 11 56 67 53%
Over 50 years old 6 53 59 47%
Subtotal 17 109 126 13% 87%
Senior Managers /  
Senior Experts /  
Individual Contributors /  
Technical Master ExpertsUnder 30 years old 91 195 286 14%
30 - 50 years old 292 923 1,215 57%
Over 50 years old 79 534 613 29%
Subtotal 462 1,652 2, 114 22% 78%
Technicians & OperatorsUnder 30 years old 161 1,369 1,530 16%
30 - 50 years old 546 4,474 5,020 52%
Over 50 years old 289 2,791 3,080 32%
Subtotal 965 8,333 9,298 10% 90%
Total 1,476 10,403 11,479 12% 88%
GRI 405-2 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN AND MEN
GLOBAL CONSTELLIUM Ratio Women to Men
Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 93%
Senior Managers / Senior Experts / Individual Contributors / Technical Master Experts 82%
Technicians & Operators 86%
EUROPE Ratio Women to Men
Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 89%
Senior Managers / Senior Experts / Individual Contributors / Technical Master Experts 83%
Technicians & Operators 87%
NORTH AMERICA Ratio Women to Men
Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 102%
Senior Managers / Senior Experts / Individual Contributors / Technical Master Experts 80%
Technicians & Operators 79%
ASIA Ratio Women to Men
Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 150%
Senior Managers / Senior Experts / Individual Contributors / Technical Master Experts 84%
Technicians & Operators 95%62 63OPERATIONS Pages 47-48 for more information on Operations
2015 2016 2017 2018
Direct energy consumption (TJ)
Non-renewable sourcesAnthracite 500 522 389 408
LPG 15 15 15 14
Nat. Gas 13,274 13, 198 13,512 13,495
Diesel 120 118 116 115
Heavy fuel 163 154 152 155
Renewable sources 0 0 0 0
Total 14,071 14,008 14, 185 14, 187
Indirect energy (TJ)
Electricity Purchased 5,583 5,777 5,938 5,870
Sold 0 0 0 0
Steam Purchased 0 0 0 0
Sold 112 194 104 120
Total Direct + Indirect energy consumption 19,543 19,591 20,019 19,937GRI 302-1 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION IN TERAJOULE (TJ)
FROM ENERGY CONSUMPTION TO ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Raw energy consumption per metric 
ton is not necessarily the most relevant 
indicator of energy efficiency, because 
we need to take into account the effect 
of different product mixes. For instance, 
the manufacture of automotive sheet 
requires significantly more energy during 
rolling and finishing operations than 
beverage can body sheet. Therefore, 
increasing the share of one product over another will affect the overall energy per 
metric ton, independently of any other 
change. For this reason, we correct our 
energy efficiency indicator to avoid any 
bias. We have identified the relative 
energy consumption per metric ton of 
different product lines and use this to 
transpose raw data on energy per metric 
ton into an energy efficiency index. 
This index thus reflects the intrinsic manufacturing performance of our 
operations, regardless of any changes in 
our product mix. 
At the same time, we also rely on life 
cycle assessments to make sure that 
we manufacture environmentally sound 
products. We are particularly keen to 
ensure that products requiring greater 
energy during production deliver greater 
energy savings during their lifetime.63GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS See page 51
30
20
10GRI 303-3 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL IN MILLION CUBIC METERS
 2015     2016     2017     2018    Surface water
5.77.17. 9
5.5
Groundwater
22.522.221.4
24.6
Water from public net
0.70.40.3
0.3
Total water
28.929.729.6
30.5
GRI 305- 7 AIR EMISSIONS IN METRIC TONS
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
 2015     2016     2017     2018    NOx
9091,059900
865
Particulate materials
557625617
492
SO2
244262284
255
VOC
1, 1131,2251, 111
1, 134
GRI 306-1 WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION IN METRIC TONS
200,000
150,000
100,000
50,000
 2015     2016     2017     2018    COD127 , 1
145,2
197 ,4
188,9
BOD5
39,325,52 7,7
40,0
Total Suspended 
Solids
10,34 ,12,5
10,7
Total  
Fluorides  Dissolved  
AluminiumTotal  
Hydrocarbon
3,24,64,5
6,396,6104, 1126,4
111,2
3,02,72 ,1
4 ,164 65RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Pages 49-50 for more information on Responsible Business
  Number of people targeted     Number of people achieved      
* In 2018 we had 40 exceptional cases, the reasons including maternity and sick leave, retirement, and long-term disability.CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING
1,600
1,200
800
400
2016
99.8%
Achieved
1,301
1,298
2015
99.3%
Achieved
1,1 4 4
1, 136
2014
99.8%
Achieved
1, 118
1, 116
2017100%
Achieved
1,362
1,362
201897 .6%
Achieved*1,554
1,477GRI 306-2 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD IN METRIC TONS
200,000
150,000
100,000
50,000
 2015     2016     2017     2018     
* Compared with previously reported data, the balance between production and construction landfill waste since 2015 was amended following improved 
monitoring of landfill waste. Additionally, 2017 landfill waste data had to be reassessed to account for missing contributions identified since then.Recycling127 , 109
139,974
152, 165
156,753
Incineration
7 ,9429,3496,850
7 ,220
Landfill: production
28,402*29,958*24,722*
27 ,876
Landfill: construction
3,404*4,266*3,206*
3,623
Total metric 
tons/year
192,455*183,546161,886
195,473
200,000
150,000
100,000
50,000
 2015     2016     2017     2018     
Hazardous/non-hazardous definition based on EU regulations.Hazardous120,383
133,773
144,639
151,077
Non Hazardous
47 ,81649,77341,503
44,239
Total161,886
183,546
192,455
195,47365Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURE
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organization Constellium N.V. (Constellium)
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services A global sector leader
Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium
Our main brands are: Airware®, Sealium, Alumold®, Unidal, Herkal, HK34, Xtral 728, 
Diamal R, Diamal S, Alplan, Certal, Fortal, Alcast, Fibral, Surfalex®, Formalex®, 
Strongalex®, Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, Longlinefinish®, 
Securalex®, Constellium HSA6™, Constellium HCA6™, Modalex™, Butlerfinish®, 
Staybright™, Keikor®, Aeral™, Dokima®, Kool X™, @bright™ and Gripster2-9
 12-13 
16, 
24-34
102-3 Location of headquarters Schiphol-Rijk, The Netherlands
102-4 Location of operations A global sector leader 16, 27 , 
29, 31
102-5 Ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the highest ethical 
standards and best practices, to be responsive to our shareholders and other 
stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide Code of Conduct. We are listed 
on NYSE under the ticker symbol ’CSTM’ . Shareholders as of March 8, 2019 – 
free float: 87 .9%; Bpifrance: 12. 1%
102-6 Markets served A global sector leader 16, 27 , 
29, 31
24-34
102- 7 Scale of the organization A global sector leader
Unlocking value16  
17
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainability performance 59-61
102-9 Supply chain Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 12-13
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chainNo significant changes  Flap
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our 2020 sustainability targets: overview
Constellium Code of Conduct:  
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct36
102-12 External initiatives We are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact.
CEO Interview
European Aluminium; Every Can Counts; Aluminium Stewardship Initiative; GRI15, 57
14-15  
37 , 42,  
49
102-13 Membership in associations Memberships 71
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Interview 14-15
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance-Sustainability Council 
Our Sustainability Targets for 2020 
Responding to our materiality assessment22 
36 
38-39
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY    
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms  
of behaviorGovernance,
Engaging our people (MOMENTUM)
Working to achieve ASI certification
Committing to responsible purchasing
UNGC membership
We have developed a new Code of Conduct integrating the principles  
of our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices.19-22
45
49
50
15, 57PERFORMANCE REPORT 2018  
GRI CONTENT INDEX
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option66 67Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structure Governance 19-22
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT    
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Governance, 
Responding to our materiality assessment
Memberships19-22
38-39
71
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements A vast majority of non-U.S. employees and approximately 50% of U.S. 
employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Governance
Responding to our materiality assessment19-22
38-39
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Governance
Responding to our materiality assessment 
Ensuring customer satisfaction
Working to achieve ASI certification22
38-39
43
49
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Governance
Our Sustainability Target for 2020 
Responding to our materiality assessment19-22 
36 
38-39
REPORTING PRACTICE   
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statementsAll entities owned by Constellium and all operating joint ventures
controlled by Constellium during reporting year 2018.
This includes all sites mentioned on pages 16, 27 , 29 and 31.16, 27 , 
29, 31
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Responding to our materiality assessment 
In 2017 , we renewed and broadened our previous materiality assessment 
performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium  
and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are aligned with this vision.
See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance 
Report for more information, available at https:/ /www.constellium.
com/sites/default/files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_re-
port_2017-200718.pdf 38-39
102-47 List of material topics Responding to our materiality assessment 38-39
102-48 Restatements of information GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method in metric tons.
Compared to previously reported data, the balance between production and 
construction landfill waste since 2015 was amended following improved 
monitoring of landfill waste. Additionally, 2017 landfill waste data had to be 
reassessed to account for missing contributions identified since then.64
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period About this report Flap
102-51 Date of most recent report Issued in 2018. Available on our website’s sustainability section at  
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/constellium_business_
and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf
102-52 Reporting cycle About this report Flap
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report Flap
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option
102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 65-70
102-56 External assurance This report is not externally assured
GRI 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundaryResponding to our materiality assessment 
In 2017 , we renewed and broadened our previous materiality assessment 
performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium  
and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are aligned with this vision.
See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance 
Report for more information, available at https:/ /www.constellium.
com/sites/default/files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_
report_2017-200718.pdf 38-3967Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
103-2 The management approach and its components Governance
Our Sustainability Target for 202019-22
36
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance
Responding to our materiality assessment19
38-39
GRI 205 ANTI-CORRUPTION
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related  
to corruptionResponding to our materiality assessment
Our Internal Control and Legal Department carried out a fraud and 
corruption risk assessment in 2018 using an in-house questionnaire 
administered at key sites as well as cases reported via the Integrity 
hotline and Internal Control Reporting network.38
205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresResponding to our materiality assessment
We communicate and train our Executive Committee and employees 
on anti-corruption through our Code of Conduct (CoC) training. Please 
refer to “sustainability performance” for our CoC training rate. A special 
session on anti-corruption with the Executive Committee was conducted 
in April 2019. Training sessions were conducted with our sales and 
purchasing departments at the sites in France, China, Japan, Singapore 
and China. The finance teams in China, Switzerland, France, Germany, 
and the U.S. were also trained. Our internal audit and site-level SOx 
champions have been trained as well.
We have included anti-corruption principles in our Supplier Code of 
Conduct for our business partners, and clauses in contracts with 
our customers. We have also put a due diligence process in place for 
business partners.38
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption  
and actions takenNone recorded during the reporting year.
GRI 301 MATERIALS
301-2 Recycled input materials used We do not consider the recycled content of aluminium in our products as 
a relevant metric for measuring the sustainability of performance.
GRI 302 ENERGY
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability performance 62
302-3 Energy intensity Energy efficiency metrics are disclosed on page 48 and in the Energy 
Efficiency section of the Sustainability Performance section.
The principle of metrics is explained in the Energy Performance section.48, 62  
 
62
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption a.  Total energy savings: 967 TJ since 2015
b.  Savings by energy source: fossil fuels 550 TJ; Electricity 417 TJ
c.  Baseline year is 2015
d.  An internal calculation tool is used to assess the energy that would 
have been used in the corresponding year by applying the 2015 
energy/t ratio of each production unit and, where necessary, applying a 
correction factor to account for changes in the product mix. 
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 
and servicesIn automotive and aerospace applications, we account for the reduction in 
the energy requirement of our products through the mass savings afforded 
by our aluminium products compared with reference material, such as steel 
in automotive or previous generations of aluminium alloys in aerospace. 
An estimate based on life cycle assessment calculations led to savings of 
over 26,000 TJ for products delivered in 2018, during their lifetime.
We based our assumption on an estimate of mass saved in automotive and 
aerospace applications, and used data from our Life Cycle Assessment 
tool, following the ISO 14040-44 standard. 
We plan to complete this assessment in the future with a more 
comprehensive coverage of our product range. 68 69Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
GRI 303 WATER AND EFFLUENTS
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource a.  Use of water is mainly concentrated on cooling operations during metal 
casting (mostly) and rolling activity. Use of water is needed across the value 
chain (upstream for alumina refining, aluminium casting after smelting,  
and electricity production, and downstream for finishing operations). 
b.  Use of water is handled within the scope of our ISO 14001 certifications.  
We also check the status of water risks every year using the online Aqueduct 
tool. 
c.  We request our key suppliers to be assessed regarding their sustainability 
performance, including water-related issues. Water is also included  
in the scope of audits performed of suppliers considered at higher-risk.  
Our aim is for all our key and higher-risk suppliers to be assessed by 2020. 
Along with other partners of the aluminium value chain, we committed  
to the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), which created a standard  
for responsible aluminium that explicitly includes water management.  
We are working to have our sites certified.
d.  There is currently no specific water-related goal. We rely on local 
environmental management to handle water-related topics as a function 
of local conditions (water availability and quality). We work with local 
stakeholders and comply with local regulations.
303-2 Management of water  
discharge-related impactsWater discharge management is done according to local regulations 
and our own water management policy, and included in the ISO 14001 
certification scope of our plants. 
303-3 Water withdrawal a.  Sustainability performance
b.  Water withdrawal from areas with water stress was 15.9 megaliters
c.  All displayed numbers relate to fresh water. No “other water” source used.
d.  No assumptions used, data collected from sites’ environmental 
management and consolidated in central database. 63
303-4 Water discharge Sustainability performance 63
GRI 305 EMISSIONS
305-6 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Addressing greenhouse gas emissions 51
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Addressing greenhouse gas emissions 51
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Addressing greenhouse gas emissions 51
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded during the reporting year 63
305- 7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and 
other significant air emissionsSustainability performance 63
GRI 306 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Sustainability performance 63
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability performance 63
306-3 Significant spills No significant spills recorded in the reporting year
GRI 307 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulationsSignificant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 
environmental laws and/or regulations: none recorded during the reporting year.
GRI 308 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaCommitting to responsible purchasing 50
GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability performance 60
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 
are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employeesPart-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; 
temporary workers are not eligible for the same benefits. Some selected 
benefits related to health insurance are granted depending on seniority.69Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
GRI 402 LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 
changesThe minimum notice period varies according to the country of operation and is 
based on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question.
GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEAL TH AND SAFETY
403-1 Occupational health and safety management 
systemEnvironment, health and safety
Focusing our efforts on safety18
44
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment,  
and incident investigationEnvironment, health and safety
Focusing our efforts on safety18
44
403-3 Occupational health services Environment, health and safety 18
403-4 Worker participation, consultation,  
and communication on occupational health  
and safety100% of our sites have workforce representation in health  
and safety committees
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and 
safetyEnvironment, health and safety
Focusing our efforts on safety18
44
403-6 Promotion of worker health Environment, health and safety 18
403- 7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationshipsEnvironment, health and safety
Focusing our efforts on safety18
44
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management systemEnvironment, health and safety
Focusing our efforts on safety18
44
403-9 Work-related injuries Environment, health and safety
Focusing our efforts on safety18
44
GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Sustainability performance 60
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviewsOur professional grade employees receive annual performance and career 
development through the global HR platform, SuccessFactors. This has been 
extended to some supervisory levels in France. All other employees receive 
an annual performance review but this is done on a site-by-site basis and 
tracked centrally for all managers.
GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Sustainability performance 60-61
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration  
of women to menSustainability performance 61
GRI 406 NON-DISCRIMINATION
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenNo discrimination cases recorded by our integrity hotline during  
the reporting period
GRI 407 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining 
may be at riskOur Human Rights & Labor Practices policy includes  
this essential right and is implemented through our Code of Conduct. 
Committing to responsible purchasing38
50
GRI 408 CHILD LABOR
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of child laborOur Human Rights & Labor Practices policy includes  
this essential right and is implemented through our Code of Conduct. 
Committing to responsible purchasing38
50
GRI 409 FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory laborOur Human Rights & Labor Practices policy includes  
this essential right and is implemented through our Code of Conduct. 
Committing to responsible purchasing38
5070 70Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
GRI 412 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessmentsResponding to our materiality assessment
Committing to responsible purchasing.  38
50
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 
proceduresResponding to our materiality assessment
We published Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices in 2018:   
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/external_-_human_rights_
policy_and_labor_practices_final_0.pdf 
The principles of our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices have been 
incorporated into our Code of Conduct. Employees are thus trained on 
human rights during Code of Conduct training.38
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts 
that include human rights clauses or that 
underwent human rights screeningCommitting to responsible purchasing
Human Rights Principles are explicitly mentioned in our Supplier Code of 
Conduct, available at www.constellium.com50
GRI 413 LOCAL COMMUNITIES
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programsStrengthening Communities 46
GRI 414 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 
criteriaCommitting to responsible purchasing 50
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 
actions takenCommitting to responsible purchasing 50
GRI 415 PUBLIC POLICY
415-1 Political contributions None – it is our policy not to make any political contributions.
GRI 416 CUSTOMER HEAL TH AND SAFETY
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 
health and safety impacts of products and servicesNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 417 MARKETING AND LABELING
417-1 Requirements for product and service 
information and labeling• Sourcing of raw material: 100% of our products comply with conflict-
minerals regulations and Constellium communicates the corresponding 
information on our website (https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/
downloads/disclosure-and-certifications).
• Content with substances that might produce an environmental or social 
impact and safe use of the products and services: 100% of our semi-products 
(cast, rolled or extruded) are covered by corresponding Manufacturer Safety 
Data Sheets, available on our website (https:/ /www.constellium.com/
sustainability/downloads/material-safety-data-sheets). Constellium also 
complies with REACH regulation, which covers the majority of our production. 
• Disposal of products and environmental and social impacts: we 
communicate, advocate and engage to promote even higher recycling rates 
for aluminium in all products. See in particular section on products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 
and service information and labelingNone recorded during the reporting year
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 418 CUSTOMER PRIVACY
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 
of customer privacy and losses of customer dataNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 419 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations  
in the social and economic areaSignificant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 
laws and regulations: none recorded during the reporting year.71Memberships
Forward-looking statementsMembership Has positions in governanceParticipates  
in projects and 
committees
Aluminium Association (AA) MemberBoard of Directors, Executive  
Committee MemberYes
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member of the Standards Committee Yes
ARPAL, Spain Member of the Board No
Aluminium France Member of the Board Yes
Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) No Yes
France Industrie No No
European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) No Yes
European AluminiumExecutive Committee Member, Member of  
the Packaging Group Board and Member  
of the Automotive & Transportation  
Group BoardYes
France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) President Yes
Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of the Board Yes
Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques  
et Spatiales (GIFAS)No No
La Boîte Boisson (BCME) No No
Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) No No
Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes,  
emballages et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM)No Yes
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No
Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of the Board Yes
Alupro Member of the Board Yes
Metal Packaging Europe (MPE) No Yes
This report contains statements that relate 
to future events and expectations and as 
such constitute forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include those 
statements containing such words as 
’expects’ , ’intends’ , ’plans’ , ’scheduled’ , ’should’ , 
’could’ , ’will’ , or other words of similar 
meaning. All statements that reflect 
Constellium’s expectations, assumptions  
or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-
looking statements. 
The forward-looking statements contained 
in this report are subject to a number of 
known and unknown risks, uncertainties 
and other factors and are not guarantees
of future performance.
These risks and uncertainties include, but 
are not limited to, those set forth under the 
heading ’Risk Factors’ in our Annual Report 
on Form 20-F , and described from time to time in subsequent reports, filed with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Constellium disclaims any obligation to 
update publicly any forward-looking 
statements, whether in response to new 
information, future events or otherwise, 
except as required by applicable law.Reporting period
Financial year 2018
(January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018)
Date of publication  
June 2019
Report scope  
The data or financials relate to Constellium
worldwide falling within the scope of
consolidation at December 31, 2018.
Report content  
The content of this report is based on our  
business data and the results of our dialogue  
with stakeholders, the Global Reporting  
Initiative Standards: Core option and other  
sustainability ratings and rankings.
Global Reporting Initiative  
GRI Standards: Core option
Assurance  
This report has been prepared in accordance  
with the GRI Standards: Core option and  
maintains code of reporting as advised by GRI.  
It is not externally assured.
Contact  
communications@constellium.com or
sustainability@constellium.comABOUT THIS REPORT
Coordination: Corporate Communications Department  
and Sustainability Council.
Design and production: Angie
Credits: ©iStockphoto.com/3DSculptor, ©iStockphoto.com/
den-belitsky, ©Hubert Raguet-Constellium, ©iStockphoto.
com/nycshooter, ©Constellium/Numix/Le-LoKal, 
©iStockphoto.com/Rockfinder, ©shutterstock,  
©photoAlquimia, ©Dominique Sarraute, ©AIRBUS 2018 
– photo by C.SANTANA, ©Greg Courdier pour Constellium, 
©iStock/NiseriN, ©iStock/Mlenny, ©iStock/JohnnyGreig, 
©Getty/Emanuel M Schwermer, ©Shutterstock/Ekaterina 
Kondratova.
Print: Printed on paper from sustainably managed forests.IV Iwww.constellium.comBUSINESS  
VALUE
24 Business Highlights 26 Automotive
28 Aerospace 30 Packaging 32 Defense
33 Transportation 34 Industry
36 Sustainability Targets 37 UN SDGs  
38 Materiality Assessment 40 Sustainability Highlights  
42 Recycling Rates 43 Customer Satisfaction 
44 Safety Records 45 People 46 Communities  
47 Landfill Waste 48 Energy Efficiency  
49 Aluminium Stewardship Initiative  
50 Sustainable Purchasing  
51 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
53 Financial Statements
57 Sustainability Performance  65 GRI