Ideas. Materialized.Business   
and sustainability   
performance  report 2016 Inﬁnite   valueOverview
Chief Executive Officer’s insights
 0
2
Key figures
 0
4
Chief Financial Officer’s insights
 0
5
Highlights of the year
 0
6
Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium
 0
8
Our network worldwide
 1
0
Governance in focusBoard of Directors
 1
3
Executive Committee
 1
5
Business in focusInnovation – Our driving force
 1
8
Business unit perspectives:
 
P
ackaging and Automotive Rolled Products  2
0
Aerospace and Transportation  2
2
Automotive Structures and Industry
 2
4
Manufacturing Excellence – A new approach to production
 2
6
EHS – Our top priority
 2
7
Operational excellence – Driving improvement through 
Manufacturing Excellence
 
28
Sustainability in focus
Refining the way we manage sustainability
 3
1
Our sustainability targets: overview
 3
2
Sustainability highlights
 3
4
Our sustainability targets:Products
 
36
People
 
38
Operations  4
1
Responsible business  4
3
Performance in focusConsolidated income statement
 4
7
Consolidated statement of financial position
 4
8
Consolidated statement of cash flows
 4
9
Share information  5
0
Sustainability performance  5
1
GRI content index
 5
6
Memberships  
61
Forward-looking statements
 6
1Inside this reportIntroduction
We are Constellium
We are a global leader in 
aluminium solutions whose business  
is to materialize today’s and  
tomorrow’s ideas.
For us, aluminium is more than a metal. 
It is part of the solution for tomorrow’s 
lighter, faster economy.
Abundant, endlessly recyclable and 
reusable, aluminium’s unique properties 
mean that, together with our partners, 
we can shape a future of inﬁnite 
possibilities and inﬁnite opportunities, 
and create inﬁnite value for our 
customers and beyond.01 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focus Performance in focusChief Executive Ofﬁcer’s insights
Improved performance,  
excellent prospects
Key points
  Marked improvement in ﬁnancial 
performance, with Adjusted EBITDA up by 10%.
  Well-positioned to reap rewards 
of past investments in markets rich with potential.
  Committed to be free cash ﬂow  
positive in 2019, to generate over €500 million Adjusted EBITDA in 2020.
How do you see Constellium, 
after your ﬁrst year as CEO?
This is a very exciting time for everybody 
at Constellium, and I’m honored and pleased to lead the company into what is shaping up to be a dynamic future. As a former executive in the aluminium industry, I already knew that Constellium had exceptional assets. But the last 12 months have shown me that Constellium’s strengths run even  deeper than I thought – our industrial roots and expertise, longstanding relationships with our customers, outstanding R&T capabilities, and dedicated employees give us unique advantages. We have leading positions in growing markets that are rich with potential – and we’re well-positioned to achieve further success.From a ﬁnancial perspective, 
how did the business perform 
in 2016?
Financially, this has been a year of 
marked improvement. Our Adjusted EBITDA grew 10% during the year to €377 million, while volumes were stable. This performance was achieved on the back of many major operational improvements, but I would like to make special mention of the good progress made by our Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products business unit, particularly at our Muscle Shoals site. We also saw strong momentum and higher proﬁtability at Automotive Structures and Industry, which has more than doubled its Adjusted EBITDA in ﬁve years to €102 million and recorded nominations of over €1.2 billion in value in 2016. Finally, we enjoyed solid results at Aerospace and Transportation  thanks to higher shipments, improved operational performance, and focused commercial efforts.How did the strategy  
unfold during the year?
We advanced several strategic initiatives 
in 2016, laying the foundations for future 
success while also starting to reap  the rewards of investments made in previous years. 
We opened new facilities to meet  
the growing demand for automotive aluminium sheet in both North America and Europe, supporting our worldwide automotive growth strategy. At Neuf-Brisach in France, the new ﬁnishing line which was inaugurated in October is expected to increase our total annual production capacity by 100kt. Meanwhile, in Bowling Green, Kentucky, we started to ramp-up the 100kt Auto Body Sheet ﬁnishing line with our partner UACJ. These new lines are critical milestones in our goal to  become a global leader in Auto Body Sheet solutions.
We have also taken signiﬁcant steps to support the outstanding growth of our Automotive Structures and Industry business unit. We announced plans to build a new greenﬁeld plant at San Luis Potosí, Mexico, to meet fast-growing demand from the expanding auto industry in Mexico. With production expected to start in 2018, this facility is our second recent major commitment to the industry in North America, following the announcement last year of our plans to build a new automotive structures plant  
in Bartow County, Georgia. In Europe, 
we invested to increase capacity in our plant at Decin, Czech Republic.
As we reap the rewards of 
our past investments, we are 
focusing on executing our 
strategy and on strengthening 
our ﬁnancial situation.”
02 Constellium  Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016In aerospace, we are focusing our  
growth potential on high value-added products and supply chain integration. 
The undisputed leader in aluminium 
lithium technology, Airware
® is giving 
us unique development opportunities.
Finally, we are targeting high 
value-added product niches in our 
Transportation, Industry and Defense (TID) markets where we expect to signiﬁcantly increase our presence.
How has the strategy translated 
into customer relationships?
Customer connectivity and intimacy are 
key to our business. We are reinforcing  
our capacity to co-design, develop and 
engineer the best solutions for our clients’ needs, through our best-in-class innovation centers in Europe and in the US. Our renewed long-term partnership with Airbus is one example of this winning strategy. We share the same approach with our automotive customers.
Customers greatly appreciate our 
outstanding innovation capacity. We offer best-in-class research centers in France and more recently in the US, where we opened a new hub in Plymouth, Michigan to be closer to our North American customers. In addition, with Constellium’s University Technology Center at Brunel University London, we have the unique capacity to prototype extruded alloys on full-scale equipment with unprecedented speed and time to market.
We also go where our customers are, especially in the automotive sector. As automakers expand their global manufacturing footprint, we are playing our part by expanding our own industrial base and technical support capabilities, servicing them from our plants in Europe, North America and China – the latest examples being our new Automotive Structures plants in Georgia and Mexico.Can we expect to see  
changes to the strategy?
We will continue to focus on our three 
main engines: aerospace, automotive and packaging. In all these markets, we will strive to provide our customers with high-end materials and solutions that meet their evolving needs. We will continue to focus on the highest value-added products, such as body sheet, structures, battery enclosures and Crash Management Systems for the automotive industry, Airware
® technology 
for aerospace, and bottle cans and closures for the packaging market. In addition, we will be more aggressively developing our TID business.
What are the key challenges 
that lie ahead?
Our main challenge is our debt, which 
is too high, and we therefore need to be rigorous and disciplined in how we use our resources, capital and people. To this end, we committed to limit our investments to €275 million in 2017 (€80 million less than 2016). We took some ﬁrst steps to simplify our corporate structure, reduce our debt and improve 
our ﬁnancial ﬂexibility. Today, all our 
bonds are held at Constellium’s level and we do not have a bond maturity before 2021. We also launched Project 2019, a cash improvement initiative focused on three core areas – reducing costs, lowering trade working capital and reducing capital spending – and I am conﬁdent this will help us achieve our goal of positive free cash ﬂow in 2019. All these initiatives are critical to creating shareholder value, another key focus 
for the year to come.
What progress did you  
make on sustainability?
Sustainability is at the heart of 
everything we do. Aluminium, being inﬁnitely recyclable, is an inherently sustainable material, and we aim to ensure that Constellium itself operates to the highest standards across the key areas of products, people, operations and responsibility. I am proud to report that we made good progress in several areas, including recycling, community initiatives and employee engagement. However, although our safety results 
remain among the best in the industry, we have seen a degradation in our 2016 recordable case rate, which is a major downside for all of us. Environment, Health and Safety remains our utmost priority and we approach the months ahead with a renewed commitment  to improvement.
What are your hopes  
and ambitions for 2017?
2016 was a pivotal year for Constellium. 
We have passed the peak of capital spending and our focus now switches to realizing the beneﬁts of our investments. The key aspects of our business – our markets, products, plants and people – are closely aligned. We have the right team in place to address the challenges ahead and achieve our strategy, and we can rely on the dedication and talent of our employees worldwide. All this fuels real conﬁdence for the year ahead.
Looking forward, we expect to record 
high single digit Adjusted EBITDA growth 
in 2017 as we execute our strategy, 
continuously improve our operational performance, and take advantage of attractive and stable fundamentals.  Our commitment is to be free cash ﬂow positive in 2019, and to generate over  €500 million of Adjusted EBITDA in  2020. As we build on our strong relationships with customers and continue to deliver high-quality products, solutions and services that meet their needs, I am conﬁdent we are on the right path.
Jean-Marc Germain
Chief Executive OfﬁcerWe are in the right markets and 
have leading positions with 
signiﬁcant growth potential.”03 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focus
   Our commitment to the United Nations 
Global Compact
“ For the ﬁfth consecutive year we support the 
Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. These principles lie at the heart of our commitment to sustainability. In this report we communicate on our progress and have referenced the UNGC Communication on Progress logo where applicable.”
Key ﬁgures
Unlocking  
value
Group sales
€4.7bn
2014 2015 20163,6665,153*
4,743
1
23Adjusted
EBITDA by 
business 
unit†
1 Packaging and  
Automotive Rolled Products 
€201m
2 Aerospace and Transportation 
€103m
3 Automotive Structures and Industry 
€102m
†  The difference between the sum of reported 
business unit’s Adjusted EBITDA and the Group Adjusted EBITDA is related to Holdings and Corporate.1
23Revenue by
business 
unit
1 Packaging and  
Automotive Rolled Products 
52%
2 Aerospace and Transportation 
27%
3 Automotive Structures and Industry 
21%Adjusted EBITDA**
€377m
2014 2015 2016275343*377
**  Adjusted EBITDA is a ‘Non-GAAP measure’. 
For a reconciliation of this measure to ‘Net Income’, see the reconciliation in our publicly ﬁled earnings press release for Q4 2016.Full-time employees (FTE)
~11,000
*  Includes Wise Metals’ sales from the date of 
acquisition, which occurred on January 5, 2015.~ Approximate
1
23456
FTE by
geographic
region
1 France  
38%4 Switzerland  
7%
2 USA  
25%5 Eastern Europe 
7%
3 Germany  
21%6 Asia 
2%04 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s insights
A disciplined use  
of our resources
From a ﬁnancial perspective, how 
did Constellium perform in 2016?
2016 was a solid year for Constellium. 
We increased Adjusted EBITDA by 
10%, reaching €377 million for the year.  
Our Packaging and Automotive Rolled 
Products business unit grew Adjusted 
EBITDA by 10% on the back of a notable 
turnaround at Muscle Shoals. The 
Aerospace and Transportation business 
unit offset headwinds with signiﬁcant 
cost reductions and maintained 
Adjusted EBITDA equal to the prior year. 
Our Automotive Structures and Industry 
business unit increased Adjusted EBITDA 
by 27%, reaching €102 million – a record 
performance. So overall, we are very 
pleased with our 2016 results.
What are your ﬁnance priorities?
Our ﬁnance priorities are three-fold:
First, a sharp focus on cash and free  cash ﬂow. This will include a particular 
emphasis on reducing costs, trade 
working capital, and capital spending. 
To this end, we have launched a cash 
enhancement initiative, entitled 
‘Project 2019’ to help us achieve our  
target of positive free cash ﬂow in 2019.
Second, rigorous capital discipline.  
This will include a combination of 
optimizing existing assets – doing more 
with what we have – and increasing our 
visibility on the outcomes of future 
expenditures. And overall, we will spend 
less. 2016 represented the peak of our 
capital spending.
Third, strengthening our balance sheet. 
This will come through solid operating 
performance and harvesting the beneﬁts of our recent capital investments, which 
include two new automotive ﬁnishing lines, 
a new pusher furnace in Ravenswood,  
and new automotive structures plants  in Georgia and Mexico. We expect these 
investments to drive signiﬁcant Adjusted 
EBITDA growth and, together with our  
cash improvement initiatives, to allow us  to strengthen our liquidity and deleverage 
the balance sheet.
Was the recent reﬁnancing  
a ﬁrst step in that direction?
Deﬁnitely yes. Early in 2017, we successfully 
completed an offering of $650 million, 
6.625% senior unsecured notes due 2025. 
Constellium used the net proceeds of this 
offering to repurchase and redeem all of 
the Wise 8.75% senior secured notes due 
2018 held at our Muscle Shoals’ facility. 
This reﬁnancing had an immediate 
positive impact on our operations, 
ﬁnancial ﬂexibility and capital structure. It allowed us to fully integrate Wise into the 
Constellium family, which reduces costs and increases our ﬂexibility in managing 
cash. It also reduces our interest cost. Together with the repayment of the Wise 
PIK/Toggle notes in December 2016, 
our interest cost will be approximately 
€27 million lower annually. And it extends 
the 2018 debt maturity to 2025. As a result 
of this transaction, our nearest bond 
maturity is not until 2021.
Can you tell us more about 
Project 2019?
Project 2019 aims to achieve positive free 
cash ﬂow in 2019 or earlier. Project 2019 
will target reductions in three areas: costs, 
working capital and capital expenditures. The project will look across the entire 
organization for opportunities. We see  
real potential in areas like metal recovery, 
equipment optimization, purchasing,  
and working capital and have already 
begun working on a number of projects. 
With respect to capital expenditures, 
Constellium has invested heavily over  
the past several years to ensure a strong 
future. After investing approximately  
€350 million in each of 2015 and 2016, 
capital spending in 2017 is expected to  
decrease by €80 million to €275 million.
What can investors expect  
over the next few years?
We are committed to regular and 
transparent communication on our 
strategic direction and ﬁnancial 
performance.
We remain highly conﬁdent in the 
Company’s future. We expect to deliver 
high single digit growth in Adjusted 
EBITDA annually over the next three years, 
culminating in over €500 million in 2020. We are also committed to generating 
positive free cash ﬂow in 2019. We are 
100% focused on delivering on these 
commitments and on increasing shareholder value.
Peter R. Matt
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
05 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusServing Mexico’s growing auto industry 
By 2019, Mexico’s auto industry is expected to produce nearly  
ﬁve million cars a year, making it one of the largest in the world. We have announced plans to invest approximately $10 million in a new and readily-expandable manufacturing facility in  San Luis Potosí to supply automotive structural components. The new plant will enable us to respond to increasing demand for lightweight, high-strength aluminium Crash Management Systems and automotive structures in Mexico. Highlights of the year
Adding value across  
the business
62kg
Thanks to the use of lightweight materials  
such as aluminium, the new BMW 5 Series is 
137lbs (62kg) lighter than the previous model.A lighter BMW 5 Series… 
The new BMW 5 Series, including 
its hybrid and touring models,  is 137lbs (62kg) lighter than the previous model, thanks to the use  of lightweight materials such as aluminium. We are the primary supplier of aluminium body sheets, providing the coils used for the inner and outer applications such as doors, roofs, fenders, deck lids and structural parts. We also designed and produce the  rear Crash Management System. 
…and Peugeot SUV
Peugeot’s new 3008 SUV features  an aluminium Crash Management  System and body sheets provided  
by Constellium. This compact SUV is 
winning praise for its inspired design, 
optimized efﬁciency and a range of 
high-tech equipment features.Adding capacity to meet  
the needs of automotive customers in Europe…
In France, we inaugurated a new 
Auto Body Sheet ﬁnishing line at Neuf-Brisach. With a production capacity of 100kt, this facility is  designed to meet the growing demand from European OEM customers.
…and in the US
We opened a new 225,000 sq ft manufacturing plant in Bowling Green, Kentucky with our joint venture partner, UACJ Corporation of Japan. This strategically located facility has an initial capacity of 100kt and represents  a signiﬁcant step towards securing our position as a major player in the fast-growing North American Auto Body Sheet market.
200kt
Our investment in our plants at Neuf-Brisach  
in France and at Bowling Green in the  
US will increase our production capacity  
by up to 200kt, and will help us meet  
the needs of the automotive industry  
around the world.
06 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Opening our new technology 
center of excellence
The new Constellium University 
Technology Center (UTC) at Brunel University London is a dedicated center  
of excellence for the design, development 
and prototyping of aluminium alloys  and automotive structural components. Featuring industrial-sized aluminium casting and extrusion equipment,  the UTC is expected to reduce development times by at least 50%, closing the gap between fundamental R&T and series production. 
Demonstrating our strengths in 3D
Thanks to new advanced software, automakers can now explore our portfolio of aluminium sheet and extrusion-based products in 3D. These vivid, interactive visuals offer a unique view of our automotive products and are downloadable as  an app from the Apple App store and Google Play, and are available on our website.Boosting our total recycling capacity 
We installed a new recycling furnace at our Muscle Shoals, Alabama facility in order to expand our recycling capabilities in North America.  With this new furnace, Muscle Shoals will have the capacity to recycle the equivalent of nearly 20 billion cans per year – almost one-ﬁfth of the cans sold in the US. This capacity, which enables the plant 
to recycle products at their end-of-life as well as scrap from customers’ recycling, is a key element in our commitment to ‘close the loop’ in beverage can recycling. See page 21 for more about our new Constellium Metal Procurement business.
y 
enter
pment
s 
ents.
um 
%, 
ntal 
 www.constellium.com20bn
Muscle Shoals will have the capacity  
to recycle the equivalent of nearly 20 billion  
cans per year.New long-term aerospace  
partnership with Airbus
We have worked with Airbus for many years – a collaboration that has 
cemented our position as the leading partner for aerospace aluminium products and solutions. In March 2016, this long-term partnership  took another step forward, with the signing of a new contract to supply  a broad range of advanced aluminium rolled products for airframes.  These include wing skin panels, aero sheets for fuselage panels, as well as rectangular and pre-machined plates for structural components.
De
Th
ex
pr
vie
an
av
cans  sold  in the US. 
07 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focus08 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Creating value throughout  
the life-cycle of aluminium
Our role
Aluminium is the world’s third most abundant element and a vital 
material in 21st century manufacturing. Here, we explain the various 
stages of production and outline our role in the process. We are 
committed to improving the overall footprint of aluminium’s life-cycle  
and to creating value for customers, suppliers and society.
1. Extraction, reﬁning and smelting
Extraction, reﬁning and smelting are 
production steps which create value for raw material suppliers and local communities.
Extraction, reﬁning and smelting can also have 
impacts related to biodiversity and human rights in bauxite mining, waste management in alumina reﬁning and greenhouse gas emissions in aluminium smelting. 
As a buyer of slabs, billets and ingots, we have 
developed our own responsible purchasing policy. However, we recognize that this is not enough to cover the whole value chain. This is why we became a founding member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative. 2. Casting, rolling, extrusion and 
component fabrication 
Casting:  Other metals are added to the molten 
aluminium to create customized alloys, and then cast into billets or slabs.
Rolling:  Slabs are rolled to produce plates, 
sheets or coils which are then used to produce cans, car hoods or aircraft wings.
Extrusion:  Billets are transformed into extruded 
products which can be then used in products such as Crash Management Systems.
Components fabrication:  In some of our plants, 
we go beyond semi-fabrication and machining, and assemble complete components such as Crash Management Systems.
In our plants, we work hard to mitigate the 
potential impact of our operations.3. Product design and manufacturing
R&T and production teams work to leverage aluminium’s inherent advantages which include lightness, ﬂexibility, durability and recyclability.
C-TEC, our world-class technology center,  
is at the heart of our commitment to continuous innovation. Through C-TEC, we work closely with our customers to develop, produce and deliver innovative and sustainable aluminium solutions. We also offer product design capabilities, particularly for component fabrication in our automotive structures business.Extraction,
reﬁning and
smelting1 Recycling 6 
Casting,  
rolling and  
extrusion2 
Extract ion,
reﬁning and
sme lting
Constellium inﬂuences Constellium directly controls Constellium indirectly controls
rint of aluminium s  life cycle  
 suppliers and society.
cycling09 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focus4. Product use
Our products are used extensively in the 
aerospace, packaging and automotive sectors – reducing weight and improving fuel consumption in a large range of 
applications 
that enhance products and improve lives.
We have developed stable, diversiﬁed and longstanding customer relationships  through which we deliver products that offer improved strength, lightness and durability.  Of particular relevance to the transportation sector, our material reduces weight,  thus leading to a signiﬁcant reduction  in CO
2 emissions during use.5. Collecting and sorting
Recycling aluminium within the manufacturing process loop makes sense both economically and environmentally.
We have rigorous processes in place to collect 
and sort scrap produced at our own facilities and also offer these services to customers, creating value by reducing costs and enhancing the recycling of products into new ones.
Efﬁcient collection and sorting systems are 
critical for the effective recycling of end-of-life scrap and also help retain the value of the alloy in the loop.6. Recycling
Aluminium can be endlessly recycled to deliver new products with the same properties as the original products.
There are three sources of recycled aluminium:
Scrap produced during our processesScrap produced during our customers’ 
processes
Scrap recovered at the end of a product’s life
We recycle all of these categories, with a focus 
on end-of-life recycling. We believe we can further improve recycling through collaboration and partnership with all relevant stakeholders including customers, associations and research centers. Product 
use4 Collecting 
and sorting5 
Product design  
and manufacturing3 
Prod
us
Constellium inﬂuences Constellium directly controlsUnderstanding our role in the value chain:
Constellium inﬂuences
Constellium directly controls
Constellium indirectly controls
Constellium indirectly controls
t 
Our network worldwide
A global  
sector leader
Constellium operates a global network of production 
facilities, state-of-the-art technology centers, and ofﬁces 
around the world to serve our customers where they are. 
Our main plants around the world
North America
Van Buren, MI
 –P r o d u c e s  a d v a n c e d  
automotive structures 
and Crash Management 
Systems (CMS)
 – Features advanced 
prototyping and 
development capabilities
Plymouth, MI
 –A u t o m o t i v e  h u b
 – R&T center to support 
automotive OEMs
 – Sales ofﬁce and 
technical support for 
the joint venture with 
UACJ Corporation
Bowling Green, KY
 – Joint venture with 
UACJ Corporation
 – Auto Body Sheet 
ﬁnishing lineRavenswood, WV
 – Recognized supplier to 
the highly demanding 
defense industry
 – Wide coil capabilities 
and largest stretcher 
worldwide enabling 
unique product creation
Muscle Shoals, AL
 – Widest strip mill in the US
 –W o r l d - c l a s s  
recycling center
San Luis Potosí, 
Mexico
 – Advanced automotive 
structures manufacturing
 – Expected to start 
production in 2018
White, GA
 – Advanced automotive 
structures manufacturing
 – Started production in 2017Europe
Singen, Germany
 –I n t e g r a t e d  h o t /  
cold-rolling line
 – Recognized for closure 
stock and functional 
surfaces
 – One of the largest extrusion 
presses in the world
 – Advanced and highly 
productive integrated 
CMS manufacturing line
 – Our largest Automotive 
Structures plant
Issoire, France
 – One of the world’s two 
leading aerospace plate 
mills, with wing skin 
capabilities
 – Airware® casthouse 
for low-density alloys
 – Recycling facility
Voreppe, France
 – C-TEC, world-class 
technology centerNeuf-Brisach, France
 –F u l l y  i n t e g r a t e d ,  
highly advanced 
rolling capabilities
 – Dedicated primarily to can 
stock and Auto Body Sheet
 –W o r l d - c l a s s  r e c y c l i n g  
center
Valais, Switzerland
 – Precision plate shop 
for general engineering 
products
 – Leading large proﬁle 
supplier for high-speed 
train manufacturers
 – Casthouses in Steg 
and Chippis
 – Plate shop and casthouse 
qualiﬁed for aerospace
Decin, Czech Republic
 – Europe’s largest hard 
alloys extrusion plant
 – Recycling facility
 – Casthouse unit
Soft alloys extrusions, 
Europe
 – Five plants supplying 
proﬁles internally (for 
Automotive Structures) 
and to third partiesAsia
Changchun, China
 – Joint venture with Engley
 – Provides global customers 
with CMS and other 
structural components
Key
 Plant
 Ofﬁce
 Technolog y center
 Joint venture10 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Packaging and Automotive  
Rolled Products
Develops, provides and recycles 
aluminium sheets and coils for packaging applications (beverage  and food cans, closures, foils) as well as automotive solutions, including high-performance products for Auto Body Sheet and heat exchangers.  In addition, the business unit recycles end-of-life products, such as used beverage cans.
 Pages 20–21
Revenue  €m
2014 2015**20161,5762,748
2,498
Adjusted EBITDA* €m
2014 2015**2016118183201
Key clients
 –A m c o r
 –A n h e u s e r - B u s c h  
InBev
 –A r d a g h  G r o u p
 –A u d i
 –B a l l – BMW Group
 – Can-Pack
 –C r o w n
 –D a i m l e r  
 – General Motors
 –V a l e oAerospace and 
Transportation
Provides technologically advanced 
aluminium alloys with wide 
applications across the global 
aerospace, defense, transportation and industrial sectors. The business unit offers a wide range of products including plates, sheets and extrusions which allow Constellium  to provide tailored solutions, pre-machining and other added  value services to its customers.
 Pages 22–23
Revenue  €m
2014 2015 20161,1971,355
1,302
Adjusted EBITDA* €m
2014 2015 201691103 103
Key clients
 – Airbus
 – Boeing
 –B o m b a r d i e r
 – Dassault Aviation
 –L o c k h e e d  M a r t i n –P i l a t u s  
 – Ryerson
 –S p a c e X
 –E m b r a e r
 –T h y s s e n K r u p pAutomotive Structures 
and Industry
Produces advanced solutions for the 
global automotive industry, including Crash Management Systems and other structural and safety parts 
and extrusions. This business unit also manufactures large proﬁles mainly for 
road and rail transportation, energy and other industrial applications. 
Constellium complements this product range with a comprehensive offering of 
downstream technology and services, including pre-machining, surface 
treatment and logistic support services.
 Pages 24–25
Revenue  €m
2014 2015 20169211,0471,002
Adjusted EBITDA* €m
2014 2015 20167380102
Key clients
 –A u d i
 – BMW Group
 –D a i m l e r  
 –F i a t  C h r y s l e r  
Automobiles
 –F o r d
 – General Motors –J a g u a r  L a n d  R o v e r
 –P S A  P e u g e o t  C i t r o ë n
 –R o b e r t  B o s c h
 –S t a d l e r  R a i l  
 –V a l e o
 –V o l k s w a g e n
*  Adjusted EBITDA is a ‘Non-GAAP measure’. For a reconciliation of this measure to ‘Net Income’, see the reconciliation  
in our publicly ﬁled earnings press release for Q4 2016.
**  Includes Wise Metals’ sales from the date of acquisition, which occurred on January 5, 2015.Three core business units11  Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusGovernance 
in focus12 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Board of Directors
A strong 
leadership team
The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the 
management of the Company, the general conduct of the 
Company’s business and its corporate governance structure. 
The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance 
to the Executive Director, who is entrusted with the day-to-day 
management of the Company.
Richard B. Evans
Chairman
Mr. Evans has served as 
Chairman of our Board 
since December 2012  
and as a member of our 
Board of Directors since 
January 2011.
 Jean-Marc Germain 
Executive Director
Mr. Germain has served  
as an Executive Director  
of the Board of Directors 
since June 2016 and as 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  
since July 2016. Michiel Brandjes 
Non-Executive Director 
Mr. Brandjes has served as 
a member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2014.Martha Brooks 
Non-Executive Director 
Ms. Brooks was appointed 
Director in June 2016.Philippe Guillemot 
Non-Executive Director 
Mr. Guillemot has served as 
a member of our Board of 
Directors since May 2013.
Peter F. Hartman 
Non-Executive Director 
Mr. Hartman has served as 
a member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2014.Guy Maugis 
Non-Executive Director 
Mr. Maugis has served  
as a member of our  
Board of Directors since  
January 2011.John Ormerod 
Non-Executive Director 
Mr. Ormerod has served as 
a member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2014.Werner P. Paschke 
Non-Executive Director 
Mr. Paschke has served as 
a member of our Board of 
Directors since May 2013.Lori A. Walker 
Non-Executive Director 
Ms. Walker has served as 
a member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2014.
Illustrations by Marie-Ange Barbet13 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusDirector independence
We maintain a one-tier Board of 
Directors consisting of Non-Executive Directors and an Executive Director (each a ‘Director’). Under Dutch law,  the Board of Directors is responsible  for the policy-making and management of the Company. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director.
As a foreign private issuer under the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules, we are not required to  have independent Directors on our  Board of Directors, (but it is required  that our Audit Committee consist of independent Directors).
Our Committees
Audit Committee
Members:
On December 31, 2016, the Audit Committee 
consisted of ﬁve Independent Directors (according to the NYSE requirements):
 – Werner P. Paschke (Chairman)
 – Martha Brooks
 – Philippe Guillemot
 – John Ormerod
 –L o r i  A .  W a l k e r
Function:
Our Board of Directors has determined that  
at least one member is an ‘audit committee ﬁnancial expert’ as deﬁned by the SEC and also meets the additional criteria for independence of audit committee members set forth in Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the 1934 Securities Exchange Act.
Some of the principal duties and responsibilities  
of the Audit Committee include overseeing and monitoring the following:
 – our ﬁnancial reporting process and 
internal control system;
 – the integrity of our consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements;
 – the independence, qualiﬁcations and 
performance of our independently registered public accounting ﬁrm;
 – the performance of our internal 
audit function;
 – our related party transactions;
 – review of our risk assessment and related 
processes; and
 – our compliance with legal, ethical and 
regulatory matters.However, our Board of Directors  
has determined that, under current NYSE listing standards regarding independence (which we are not currently subject to), and taking into account any applicable committee standards, as of December 31, 2016, Messrs. Evans, Brandjes, Guillemot, Hartman, Maugis, Ormerod, Paschke and Ms. Brooks and Ms. Walker  are independent Directors.
Board meetings in 2016
In 2016 the Board of Directors held 
10 meetings and reviewed a number of matters including:
 – reports from the Board’s Committees;
 – reports from the Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer – including Environment, Health and Safety; – approval of the 2015 Annual Accounts;
 – approval of ﬁling of Form 20-F with  
the SEC;
 – approval of the draft agenda  
for the 2016 Constellium Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, including nomination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors;
 – ﬁnance reports and items;
 – list of restricted countries;
 – strategy of the Company; 
 – reports from the business units;  
and
 – review of 2017 budget.
Human Resources and  
Remuneration Committee
Members:
On December 31, 2016, the Remuneration 
Committee consisted of four Directors:
 – Peter F. Hartman (Chairman)
 – Martha Brooks
 – Richard B. Evans
 – Guy Maugis
Function:
Some of the principal duties and responsibilities 
of the Remuneration Committee include:
 – review, evaluate and make recommendations 
to the Board regarding compensation policies and establish performance-based incentives that support our long-term goals, objectives and interests;
 – review, set and approve corporate goals and 
objectives relevant to the compensation of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer;
 – review and approve the compensation of 
all employees who report directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; 
 – review and make recommendations to the 
Board with respect to incentive and equity-based compensation plans;
 – provide oversight concerning selection of 
ofﬁcers, management succession planning, expense accounts, indemniﬁcation and insurance matters, and separation packages; and assist the Board in reviewing succession planning and the talent development process;
 – assess compensation philosophy and policies 
to monitor risk management; and
 – prepare responses to any shareholder 
proposals relating to remuneration policies of the Company
. Nominating/Corporate  
Governance Committee
On December 31, 2016, the Nominating/
Corporate Governance Committee consisted  of three Directors:
Members:
 – Richard B. Evans (Chairman)
 –M i c h i e l  B r a n d j e s  
 – John Ormerod
Function:
Some of the principal duties and 
responsibilities of the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee include: 
 – identify and recommend to the Board 
candidates to be elected or appointed to the Board;
 – draw up selection criteria and appointment 
procedures for Board members;
 – recommend Committee Chairman 
and membership appointments and reappointments for consideration by the Board;
 – periodically assess the size and composition 
of the Board, and make a proposal for a composition proﬁle of the Board;
 – make recommendations to the Board 
with respect to determinations of Director independence;
 – conduct the Board’s annual governance 
review with respect to the Company;
 – establish an appropriate process for 
and oversee the self-assessment of the Board (including Board self-assessment, Committee self-assessments and Director assessments), and oversee the evaluation of management;
 – conduct timely succession planning for 
the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer;
 – supervise the policy of the Board on 
the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior management; and
 – consider questions of possible conﬂicts 
of interest of Board members and of senior executives.14 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Executive Committee
Diverse 
expertise
Our Executive Committee focuses on strategy, 
commercial developments, program execution, ﬁnancial 
and competitive program, organizational development 
and Group-wide policies.
Arnaud Jouron
President, Packaging and 
Automotive Rolled Products 
business unit
Jack Clark
Senior Vice President, 
Manufacturing Excellence 
and Chief Technical Ofﬁcer
Vittorio Rossetti
Vice President and 
Chief Information OfﬁcerPaul Warton
President, Automotive 
Structures and Industry 
business unit
Corinne Fornara
Vice President and 
Group ControllerIngrid Joerg
President, Aerospace  
and Transportation 
business unit
Béatrice Charon
Vice President,  
Business Planning
Jeremy Leach
Vice President and Group 
General CounselPeter R. Matt
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Nicolas Brun 
Vice President, 
Communications
Ryan Jurkovic
Senior Vice President and 
Chief Human Resources 
OfﬁcerJean-Marc Germain
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Peter Basten
Executive Vice President, 
Strategy, Business  
Development, Research  
and Technology
Illustrations by Marie-Ange Barbet
15 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusBusiness Governance
Executive Committee
Our Executive Committee focuses on strategy, commercial developments, 
program execution, ﬁnancial and competitive program, organizational development and Group-wide policies.
Members:
 – Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
 – Business Unit Presidents
 – Executive Vice President  
and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
 – Executive Vice President, Strategy, 
Business Development and R&T
 – Senior Vice President and 
Chief Human Resources Ofﬁcer
 – Senior Vice President, 
Manufacturing Excellence  and Chief Technical Ofﬁcer 
 – Vice President and Group  
General Counsel
 – Vice President, Communications
 – Vice President, Business Planning
 – Vice President and Group Controller 
 – Vice President and Chief Information 
OfﬁcerFunction:
 – reviews all strategic issues and 
evaluates all signiﬁcant proposed acquisitions or divestments, ﬁnancial restructuring, alliances and strategic partnerships;
 – develops and monitors 
implementation of key strategic, ﬁnancial, investment and organizational decisions;
 – controls the execution of the 
strategic plan and of the budget; and
 – as and when required, submits 
reports, proposals and recommendations on all matters within its scope of responsibility  to the Board of Directors.Code of Conduct
Our worldwide Code of Employee  
and Business Conduct sets out the standard of behavior we expect from  our employees. The Code governs  
the way Constellium acts in business,  
and how we expect our business partners, customers and suppliers  to behave. It applies to all Constellium employees, subject to applicable  local law.
Compliance with the Code is essential  
to preserving and enhancing the Company’s reputation as a responsible corporate citizen and, ultimately,  to maximizing shareholder value.  For suppliers, we have developed  a speciﬁc Code of Conduct. 
Whistleblower policy
We implemented a whistleblower  
policy to foster an environment where our employees can act without fear  of retaliation and report wrongdoing or suspected wrongdoing or irregularities  of a ﬁnancial, accounting, banking  or corruption nature in Constellium  to a reporting ofﬁcial. To facilitate  this reporting, we have established  an external hotline in all the countries  and languages we have operations in.
Insider Trading policy
We have an Insider Trading policy which 
sets out the restrictions on trading in Constellium securities and the use of inside information.16 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Business 
in focus
Business in focus Overview Governance in focus Sustainability in focus Performance in focus17 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Innovation
Our driving force
Abundant, endlessly recyclable and reusable, aluminium 
is a key part of the solution for tomorrow’s lighter, faster 
and sustainable economy. Fulﬁlling this rich potential 
demands the brightest experts, the greatest commitment 
and signiﬁcant investment – all of which are key elements 
of Constellium’s innovation capability. 
Investing in innovation
With well over 200 talented and highly 
qualiﬁed employees, our C-TEC technology center is the driving force for Constellium’s innovation and long-term growth. Based at Voreppe in France, this experienced team has been responsible for many of the innovations that are opening up new opportunities for customers across the automotive, aerospace, packaging, transportation, defense and industrial markets. 
In 2016, we added greater depth to our 
innovation resources, with the opening  of a new R&T hub in the US. This facility is now supporting our growth in North America, expanding our connections with academia and ensuring that we continue to meet the increasing needs  of the automotive industry on this continent. Located in the auto industry’s heartland around Detroit, the hub is a key element in our strategy to stay close to our key customers. 
Helping customers seize 
opportunities at speed
Time to market is a critical success 
factor for our industry. This means helping customers incorporate new solutions in their ﬁnished products at speed in order to seize competitive advantage.
The opening of Constellium’s University 
Technology Center at Brunel University London is a step towards this objective. By allowing us to prototype alloys and 
components on full-scale equipment with unprecedented speed, we reduce development times by at least 50%  and enable our automotive customers to take products to market in record time.
 At the same time, we have identiﬁed  
and addressed a number of initiatives  to make R&T even more efﬁcient and  to accelerate the development cycle.  For example, at C-TEC we have successfully introduced a new agile methodology, ensuring quicker decision-making and faster time to market through improved project management. With this new process, we have reduced trial lead-time by approximately 50%,  an increase in prototyping productivity  of 40%. This is translating into signiﬁcant new product development opportunities for our customers.
Highlights of the year
Our innovation teams have continued to be responsible for the development of a 
number of critical products and solutions. 
The year saw several patents granted on new alloys for aerospace and automotive applications, as well as innovations in the casting and ﬁnishing processes.
In the auto industry, we launched 
Securalex
®HS, part of our new 
generation of advanced alloys for rolled structural parts. Combining increased strength and crash resistance to improve passenger safety, the alloy is manufactured on the new continuous annealing line at Neuf-Brisach. Summary
  One state-of-the-art research 
center, with two locations (Voreppe, France and Plymouth, Michigan)
  22 nationalities
  89 engineers including 57 PhDs
  170 active patent families  
and trademarks
  Opening of Constellium’s University 
Technology Center at Brunel University London
  International Scientiﬁc Council, 
gathering some of the world’s top materials scientists to strengthen the Company’s technical leadership  and innovation performance 
  Rapidly bringing innovations to market
  Helping customers seize competitive 
advantage
  Monitoring trends, shaping the future
  Partnerships with approximately  
50 universities and laboratories including:
USA:  University of Michigan, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology (MIT), Northwestern 
University, University of South Carolina, Worcester Polytechnic Institute
UK:  Brunel University London, University  
of Manchester, University of Oxford
France:  CNRS/University laboratories  
in Paris, Grenoble, Nancy, Saint-Etienne, Toulouse, IRT M2P (Metz), IRT Jules  Verne (Nantes)
Germany:  RWTH Aachen,  
German Aerospace Center DLR
Switzerland:  EPFL Lausanne
Netherlands:  TU Delft18 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016For extruded structural parts, we have  
developed 6xxx alloys that are as strong 
as 7xxx yet compatible with other alloys  used on the vehicle for closed loop  recycling. We have also introduced  our Constellium HSA6
™ high-strength 
alloys on 2017 models, which are 15–30% lighter than conventional alloys.
In aerospace, we are building on the 
success of Airware
® Al-Cu-Li alloys, 
which are now ﬂying on many aircraft and spacecraft including Bombardier’s C Series. During the year, the Airware
® 
family welcomed two new additions. Airware
®2074 is a high-performance 
option that offers an excellent balance between strength and uniformity (known as isotropy) across all its physical properties. Airware
®2074 
targets new designs. We have also developed a new Airware® 
‘drop-in’ solution that delivers the lowest density in the aerospace industry, and enables customers to reduce the weight of derivative aircraft. This Airware
® 
‘drop-in’ solution can easily replace existing solutions, and offers limited qualiﬁcation costs because all its properties will meet or exceed the speciﬁcations of the incumbent material.
In the packaging sector, we developed  
a new solution to improve metal recovery at customers’ sites. Now patented and  
in use at one of our major customers,  
this solution reduces the amount  of metal lost during manufacture by optimizing its usage during the drawing and ironing process. 
The defense sector is another area  
that has great potential for innovative products. In 2016, we were proud to see Keikor
®, our advanced solution 
for aluminium armored vehicles, be selected by TARDEC, the US Army Tank Automotive Research Development and Engineering Center, for its new Combat Vehicle Prototype platform (see page 23). Eyes on the future 
Our innovation teams at C-TEC and  the Plymouth hub work closely with the International Scientiﬁc Council of Constellium to identify trends and upcoming opportunities. 
The major megatrend of recent years  
has been the ‘aluminization’ of the automotive market – and this trend continued through 2016 as more  automakers sought to access the beneﬁts of lightweighting, driven to a signiﬁcant degree by the marked increase in demand for electric and hybrid vehicles.
The trend towards 3D printing and 
additive manufacturing has continued  to gather pace, particularly in the aerospace industry where we are currently partnering with several major manufacturers, tier one suppliers and printing equipment suppliers. Similarly, Industry 4.0 has moved from hype to reality, and several solutions have reached a sufﬁcient level of maturity to be considered real opportunities for Constellium. For example, developments around big data, the Internet of Things and autonomous robots could help us  to maximize the performance of our assets and increase efﬁciency. A number of projects have already progressed beyond the proof of concept stage,  and will continue to be the focus for  our teams during 2017 .
A Constellium research fellow examines  
the microstructure of an aluminium alloy.Researchers at C-TEC, Voreppe, France.
A log is removed from the DC Caster at the 
Constellium University Technology Center at Brunel University London.
19 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusNew Auto Body Sheet ﬁnishing line in 
Bowling Green, KY.Excellent progress
Improved operational results at Muscle 
Shoals in the US and a solid performance at Neuf-Brisach, France, were the  
primary drivers for the business unit’s 
performance in 2016. In total, shipments of automotive rolled products grew by 28% to 113kt, and this growth is expected to continue as our two new ﬁnishing lines in Bowling Green, Kentucky, and Neuf-Brisach, France, ramp up. 
We retained our leadership position in can stock, and are targeting high 
value-added niche markets in packaging. 
Automotive
Aluminium is increasingly the material  of choice for auto manufacturers,  
driven by its lightweighting properties and consumer demand for safety and design features. Improved fuel efﬁciency delivers 
lower emissions, thereby enabling the industry to address growing national and international concerns over air quality – and help the auto industry satisfy the growing consumer appetite for SUVs.The market for Auto Body Sheet 
continues to grow, and we expect to see annual double digit growth in both Europe and the US from 2016 to 2021. 
Although still impressive, growth in 
Europe is lower than in the US because aluminium has signiﬁcant penetration  in Europe historically, particularly in the high-end car sector.
The turnaround at our Muscle Shoals 
plant was one of the major highlights  of the year, with the implementation  of a rigorous cost and productivity improvement plan. The plant is also undergoing a major revamping of  its hot and cold rolling capabilities.  The objective is that in addition to end and can body stock, the plant will start supplying Auto Body Sheet substrate to our Bowling Green, Kentucky, joint venture by the end of 2017 to support our Auto Body Sheet growth. 
We remain at the forefront of innovation, 
with the additional support of our new R&T center in Plymouth, Michigan. Securalex
®HS, our latest and most 
innovative product for the Auto Body Sheet market, is a major breakthrough and is already being used on the new BMW 5 Series. Used for speciﬁc parts in the vehicle’s sensitive areas such as seating, fuel tank and front parts, this new solution is designed to provide energy absorption and high strength. Business unit 
perspectives
Packaging and 
Automotive 
Rolled 
Products 
#2 in Europe and #3 in North 
America for can body stock 
#1 worldwide in closure stock
Joint #2 in Europe for Auto  
Body Sheet 
Other specialties include 
decorative, cosmetics and  paint stock
2016 at a glance
 – Automotive rolled product 
shipments increased by 28%  to 113kt 
 – Adjusted EBITDA up by 10% to  
€201 million
 – Adjusted EBITDA per ton of €199, 
up by 13% 
 – Strong momentum generated by 
improving operational results at Muscle Shoals, AL, in the US
 – Ramping up production on the 
new Auto Body Sheet lines at Neuf-Brisach in France and Bowling Green, KY, in the US
Strategy
 – Grow Auto Body Sheet business  
in the US and Europe; complete ramp-up of new ﬁnishing lines
 – Optimize capacity utilization 
between can stock and Auto  Body Sheet; debottleneck  rolling capacity in Europe
 – Continue rigorous cost and  
capital discipline
2012 2016 2021 2012 2016 20211,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
01 000
750
500
250
0Auto Body Sheet: growth forecast in North America and Europe
North America kt Europe kt
CAGR
+19%CAGR
+12%
Source: Constellium Internal Analysis, CRU20 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Bright quality surface being checked in 
Singen, Germany.New lines, new capabilities
Towards the end of 2016, we announced 
the ofﬁcial openings of two new lines that will enable us to exploit the growing demand for Auto Body Sheet in both North America and Europe. 
Together, these lines will have the 
capability to produce 200kt per year.
At Bowling Green in Kentucky, 
we opened a strategically-located 225,000 sq ft facility, with our joint venture partner, UACJ Corporation. Production started on schedule in 2016 and ramp-up is on track. With a capacity of 100kt and incorporating cutting-edge equipment and technologies, the facility provides a ﬂat rolled product portfolio for a wide range of applications, including closure panels and body components.
Meanwhile, at Neuf-Brisach in France 
we opened our ﬁnishing line featuring high-speed thermal treatment, precise temperature control and a highly efﬁcient quenching process, as well as greater ﬂexibility regarding the thickness of processed alloys. 
The diverse range of innovative 
technologies will enable us to manufacture high-quality aluminium products for automotive closure inners, outers and Body-in-White. The line will signiﬁcantly boost our 
Auto Body Sheet production capacity, enabling us to meet the growing demand from European automakers generated by tighter regulation of vehicle emissions in Europe. 
In addition to these new lines, we have 
also invested in Auto Body Sheet at Singen in Germany, where we launched a new project to upgrade the cold 
rolling capabilities. This new initiative 
will supply Auto Body Sheet substrate to Neuf-Brisach and is expected to be completed in 2018.
Packaging
The global can market is stable, with demand highly resilient across economic cycles. 
We continued to see steady growth 
through 2016 in Europe, as customers moved from steel to aluminium, while  the US market remained broadly ﬂat.However, the domestic packaging 
sector continues to enjoy signiﬁcant advantages, including ready access to recycled Used Beverage Containers, increasingly efﬁcient operations and proven logistics capabilities. 
In addition to this large volume of can 
stock, we continue targeting high-value markets with high potential, such as closures, cosmetics and decorative parts for the automotive industry. 
We are the world’s #1 provider  
of aluminium sheets for closure applications, as well as the preferred aluminium supplier for complex aluminium screw caps – a growing market as wine producers are increasingly transitioning from cork bottles to screw caps. Aluminium is  also becoming the material of choice  for decorative display and design purposes for the automotive segment. Our Singen plant has become a  key supplier for these decorative applications, which require perfect surface quality and a high degree  of shine. Singen is also renowned  for producing the special aluminium surfaces sought by the cosmetics industry, from high-luster to matte ﬁnishes.
Securing supplies,  building relationships 
During 2016, we took responsibility for 
the Anheuser-Busch Recycling Corporation procurement functions and now run the full process – from recycled cans to new can  sheets. Under the umbrella of Constellium  Metal Procurement, we now purchase  Used Beverage Containers directly  from suppliers to our Muscle Shoals  plant, ensuring we have greater control  of this essential metal supply.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011110%
100%
90%
80%
70%110%
100%
90%
80%
70%North America EuropeResilience of can stock since last downturn
  Total North American ﬂat rolled 
products volumes
 North American can stock volumes  Total European ﬂat rolled  
products volumes
  European can stock volumes
Source: CRU21 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusA year of stability
During 2016, Aerospace and 
Transportation reported solid and stable ﬁnancial results, offsetting aerospace headwinds with increased shipments. Total shipments rose by 5% to 243kt, with shipments to Aerospace customers up by 2% and to Transportation, Industry and Defense customers by 9%. 
Cost reduction, productivity measures 
and operational improvements all contributed to the growth in earnings. We reduced metal costs by working with customers to increase recycling, and through furnace revamps. At our plants, we have reduced equipment downtime by 25% over two years, and also achieved improved labor productivity. Aerospace
Strong, stable and offering great potential for future growth, the aerospace market is driven by the  steady increase in air trafﬁc as well  as by the increasing demand for more fuel-efﬁcient aircraft. While aircraft manufacturers report a strong backlog, excess inventory in the supply chain  can temporarily impact orders.
With over 300 patents, Aerospace and Transportation is growing its share of high value-added aerospace 
products through 
its unique manufacturing capabilities and 
portfolio of leading-edge alloys. The 
focus is on high value-added products (Airware
®), fuselage sheets, wing skins 
and supply chain integration (pre-machined parts, closed loop recycling). 
Our pre-machining services in particular 
offer considerable advantages for  our customers – during a typical manufacturing process, from plate  to ﬁnished part, around 90% of the  metal is removed as scrap, either as large pieces or chips. Our machining operations reduce customer costs and optimize sourcing by minimizing the buy-to-ﬂy ratio of aluminium products. Receiving pre-machined components also simpliﬁes our customers’ manufacturing operations.Business unit 
perspectives
Aerospace 
and 
Transportation
Global leader in the aerospace 
aluminium market
#1 in aero plates worldwide
#1 in aero sheets in Europe
Solid positions in selected niches  
in transportation and industry
#1 in wide coils in North America
2016 at a glance
 – Total shipments for the year of 
243kt – an increase of 5% 
 – Adjusted EBITDA of €103 million – 
in line with 2015
 – Adjusted EBITDA ﬁgure per ton 
of €425 – a decrease of 4%, with higher volumes and improved costs being offset by a weaker mix
 – Innovative Airware
® aluminium-
lithium alloys continue to set industry standards and win new customers
 – New pusher furnace at 
Ravenswood operational 
Strategy
 – Maintain aerospace shipments while 
increasing value-added content
 – Grow shipments in Transportation, 
Industry and Defense markets
 – Maximize use of current capacities, 
improve throughput and yields; continue focus on reducing costs
Airware®
Under the Airware® name, our aluminium-
lithium alloys are the undisputed market leaders. The materials of choice for military and space applications, no fewer than seven different Airware
® alloys are ﬂying today. 
Current applications include fuselage skins, stringers, ﬂoor structures and seat tracks, window frames, and large internal wing and fuselage components. Airware
® technology is 
incorporated in several key projects currently ramping up at major customers, such as those for the Airbus A350 and Bombardier C Series. Airware
® is now fully industrialized with one  
pilot casting facility at C-TEC and two fully operational cast houses in Issoire, France.
+8%
Strength
+6%
Toughness+25%
Fatigue 
resistance+46%
Corrosion resistance
+7%
Stiffness
-4%
Density
 Airware® 2050
 Conventional alloy22 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Maintaining strong customer relationships
Customer intimacy is important across 
all our markets, but nowhere more so than in the aerospace sector, where trust and close collaboration are the keys  to customer satisfaction and long-term business. Our aerospace teams work closely with our customers, delivering  a range of products, solutions and know-how that meet their needs and form the foundations for strong and deep customer relationships.
 We have a very diversiﬁed customer 
portfolio, with customers such as Airbus, Boeing, Bombardier, Dassault Aviation, Embraer and SpaceX. Around 90% of our aerospace sales are delivered under long-term contracts with blue-chip customers.
Transportation,  
industry and defense
We supply a broad portfolio of 
differentiated, tailor-made and  value-added solutions to a wide range  of customers in the transportation, industry and defense markets.  These areas offer great potential  for growth – and we are currently developing and marketing a new range  of high-value products to address a multitude of opportunities, particularly in North America.
For example, Herkal HK34
® and Xtral 
728® alloys offer important advantages 
to transportation customers, such as lightweighting, formability and impact resistance, while our Gripster
™ solution 
offers a unique combination of durability, grip and silence for truck ﬂoors. In the industry sector, we tailor specialized  and branded alloys such as Alumold
® 
and Unidal® to meet speciﬁc customer 
needs including improved machining efﬁciency and cost savings. We also  have a proud track record in the defense sector, where alloys such as Sealium
® 
and Keikor® deliver beneﬁts including 
corrosion resistance and blast protection to seagoing craft and land-based ﬁghting vehicles respectively.
Winning the battle with our defense offer
Best-in-class blast performance together 
with superior armor piercing capabilities have resulted in a Constellium solution being chosen for one of the world’s most advanced ﬁghting vehicles.
Our leading solution for integral hull 
applications, Keikor
® 2139, will play a key role 
in the new Combat Vehicle Prototype (CVP) platform being developed by TARDEC, the US Army Tank Automotive Research Development and Engineering Center. Under the agreement, Keikor
® 2139 from our Ravenswood plant will 
be supplied to TARDEC for its entire CVP integrated hull capsule. Keikor
® 2139 was 
previously selected for the successful CAMEL (Concept for Advanced Military Explosion-mitigating Land) program.This pivotal contract builds on our proven track 
record and conﬁrms our growing reputation  as a leading partner for aluminium armored vehicle solutions. We have partnered with defense customers for many years, continuously developing new solutions for armored vehicles and upgrading in-service equipment. New multi-year contract with Airbus 
In 2016, we were pleased to sign a new  multi-year contract with Airbus for the provision of advanced aerospace aluminium products and solutions. This contract builds on the partnership agreement signed with Airbus in 2010 that marked the introduction of our Airware
® 
technology on the A350 XWB. Under the new agreement, our plants at Issoire in France and Ravenswood in the US will supply Airbus with a broad range of advanced aluminium rolled products for airframes including wing skin  panels and aerospace sheets for fuselage panels, as well as rectangular and pre-machined  plates for structural components. In addition,  we will collaborate with Airbus to improve  supply chain and recycling solutions in order  to reduce inventories along the value chain – these initiatives will support the ramp-up of key Airbus programs such as the A320neo and the A350 XWB. To help Airbus achieve its continuous improvement targets, we are committed to improving the buy-to-ﬂy ratio – for example,  by developing and implementing near-net shaped and pre-machined products.
2014 2015 2016 2017
C Series entry 
into service 
with Airware®A350 entry 
into service 
with Airware®Airware®
ﬂyingCustomer 
contractsSeveral regional and 
business aircraft 
manufacturers 
contractsMulti-year  
contract 
with BoeingMulti-year 
contract 
with Airbus
2014 2015 2016 2017
90% of Constellium’s aerospace sales are covered under long-term contracts23 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusA record year
2016 was another record year for our 
Automotive Structures and Industry business unit, with Adjusted EBITDA increasing by 27% to €102 million, and Adjusted EBITDA per ton growing by 24% to €471. In the last ﬁve years, we have more than doubled our Adjusted EBITDA. From an operational perspective, we continued to achieve solid execution across all products and facilities, with our key greenﬁeld expansion projects on schedule in White, Georgia, USA, San Luis Potosí, Mexico and our Astrex extrusion JV in Windsor, Ontario, Canada. The trust placed in us by top-tier automotive manufacturers resulted in nominations worth €1.2 billion in lifetime sales.
Automotive Structures
We remain the supplier of choice for the automotive industry across three continents with our capacity for innovation supported by a fully integrated supply chain. From alloy development to ﬁnal component design and production, we work closely with our customers every step of the way, helping them beneﬁt from the latest innovation 
and technology in addition to industry-
leading expertise and experience.High growth markets
The business unit operates in highly attractive growth markets. North American demand for extruded aluminium Crash Management Systems, body structures, chassis components and battery enclosures is expected to increase from 140kt in 2015 to 250kt in 2025, while in Europe demand is expected to increase from 190kt in 2015 to 420kt in 2025.
In addition, as OEMs transition from 
traditional internal combustion engines to electric vehicles, further opportunities for growth are expected. Electric vehicles are typically aluminium-intensive as vehicle lightweighting will substantially increase range. 
Partnering with our customers
We continue to expand our Automotive Structures footprint, partnering with our customers to support development and production activities for global programs, with 15 plants strategically located across three continents. 
Following the doubling of our 
manufacturing capacity in Van Buren, Michigan, we are now opening two new plants to meet growing demand in North America. Our new facility in Georgia started production in 2017 , and our new plant at San Luis Potosí in Mexico comes on stream in 2018. To meet growing demand in Europe, we are expanding  our German plants at Gottmadingen  and Dahenfeld.Business unit 
perspectives
Automotive 
Structures 
and Industry
Global leader in Crash 
Management Systems and body structures
European leader in hard alloy 
extrusions and large proﬁles
#2 in the soft alloy extrusion 
sector in Europe
2016 at a glance
 – Total shipments for the year  
of 217kt, up by 3%
 – Record Adjusted EBITDA of  
€102 million, an increase of 27% 
 – Record Adjusted EBITDA per ton  
of €471, an increase of 24%
 – €1.2 billion of new business booked 
with OEMs
 – Continuing solid execution across 
all products and facilities, with all growth projects on schedule 
 Strategy
 – Design, manufacture and supply 
innovative extrusion-based solutions to satisfy our demanding customers 
 – Follow our customers and invest  
to maintain our leadership position in automotive structures across three continents
 – Continue rigorous cost disciplineProudly supplying blue-chip customers across the world
While most nominations remain conﬁdential, we are a proud supplier to the following customers, 
who trust us to deliver innovative and value-added solutions to reduce vehicle weight, improve fuel efﬁciency and increase safety for drivers and pedestrians. 
Ford F-150:  Constellium is the largest  
supplier of high-strength extruded aluminium structural components for the groundbreaking Ford F-150.
BMW 5 Series:  This new model features our 
most advanced rear Crash Management System, with extrusions made of Constellium’s patented high-strength 6000 series  crushable alloys. Peugeot 3008:  We supply aluminium  
Crash Management Systems for the new Peugeot 3008, which features a lower  beam for enhanced pedestrian safety.
Bosch:  In May 2017, our Decin plant –  
the largest integrated hard alloy facility in Europe (see opposite) – signed a multi-year contract with Robert Bosch to supply  Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) proﬁles for  the automotive industry. With a ramping up volume of several million pieces per year in 2016, additional long-term solutions will be supplied to several Bosch plants worldwide. The expected overall volume per year is targeted to double, subject to auto market demand and ramp-up of future ABS solutions.
24 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016€1.2 billion of nominations 
awarded in 2016
In 2016, we again won a wide range  
of nominations (life-time contracts)  in key product groups with the largest European and North American car manufacturers, for €1.2 billion in lifetime sales.
 –C r a s h  M a n a g e m e n t  S y s t e m s ,   
where we have a market share  of approximately 35%
 – Body structures, with new products 
including longitudinals and mixed material solutions 
 – Chassis and battery crash protection, 
driven in particular by the increased popularity of electric vehicles
Unique innovation capabilities
Our technology centers ensure  that we are at the forefront of alloy development, process design and product solutions. Partnering with  our customers at the initial design phase, we produce bespoke solutions which ensure vehicles are safer,  lighter and more fuel-efﬁcient. Opened in April 2016, the Constellium 
University Technology Center (UTC)  at Brunel University London is our dedicated center of excellence for  the design, development and rapid prototyping of aluminium alloys and automotive structural components. 
Featuring industrial size aluminium 
casting and extrusion equipment in  the ﬁrst phase, Constellium UTC provides rapid prototyping capability.This reduces development times for advanced aluminium alloys required  for the continued lightweighting of automotive structural components  by at least 50%. The newly-developed alloy and process technologies are being transferred to Constellium’s extrusion and automotive structures plants worldwide, thereby closing the gap between fundamental R&T and series production. 
Our innovation capabilities enable us  
to continuously improve our product offering. The new generation Crash Management Systems combine the properties of the 6xxx aluminium alloy family – offering formability, corrosion resistance, energy absorption and 
recyclability together with high-strength 
mechanical performance.Industry
As a leader in the hard alloy extrusion 
sector in Europe, with the largest hard alloy 
extrusion plant in Europe (Decin, see below),  
our products target the engineering, building and construction, and the rail,  
bus and marine transportation markets. 
Our industry segment plays a critical role in supporting the growth of automotive structures. One of our key strengths is our ability to be a true material development partner for our 
automotive customers, not just a tier one 
fabricator or an extrusion company. 
Our soft alloys extrusion plants in 
Germany, France, Switzerland, Slovakia and Canada give us greater control of the supply chain and ultimately improve speed to market for customers by 
bringing prototyping, serial extrusion and component production closer together. 
To ensure that our extrusion capabilities are able to match the automotive demand and satisfy our industry customers, we have upgraded our wholly-owned European soft alloys extrusion plants. Our joint venture in Canada is operational, and enables us to secure our supply source and protect our intellectual property for our North American customers. 
The largest hard alloy extrusion  plant in Europe
Our Decin, Czech Republic, plant is expanding 
with a new site to meet growing demand from European customers. A short distance from our existing facility, the plant will feature a new casthouse with a hard alloy billet capacity of 40kt and an extrusion line with variable power. The new facility will offer forging stock applications for the automotive sector,  battery enclosures for hybrid and all-electric vehicles, and machined parts for chassis and other structural applications. Production is expected to begin in 2019. An operator performs a quality check on an 
aluminium bumper beam.
Crash boxes are made on a fully automated production line to ensure precision.25 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusManufacturing Excellence
A new approach  
to production
Manufacturing Excellence has long been a core objective  
for our management teams. Appointed in October 2016,  
Jack Clark, Senior Vice President of Manufacturing 
Excellence and Chief Technical Ofﬁcer, discusses 
how our approach is evolving.
Why does Constellium  
need a new approach to Manufacturing Excellence?
When I took up my position at 
Constellium, I quickly grasped the fact that huge steps have been taken in recent years. After three years of our Lean Transformation, quality complaints have fallen by nearly two-thirds and missed deliveries have more than halved. Signiﬁcant investments have been made – new Auto Body Sheet lines, new plants for extruded automotive parts, to name  a few, and they are all ramping up  on schedule. Now it’s time to harvest  these investments. What will be your priorities?
Safety remains my ﬁrst priority.  We want people to come to work,  do their jobs and go home safely at the end of the day. Safety is the primary objective of Manufacturing Excellence and we will continue our efforts to achieve our objectives in 2017 . 
Quality is also a high priority. Providing  
our customers with quality products,  on time, is fundamental to our  business – and Lean projects are  critical to address this key objective. 
Protecting and optimizing our assets  
is another area of focus. The time  for signiﬁcant investments is behind  us and we now need to optimize the output of our assets, using them as  a coherent system.
Finally, cash preservation is a priority, 
because Manufacturing Excellence  will play a great role in Project 2019  (see page 05). From reducing inventory  to reviewing maintenance expenditures, I’ll be spending time at the plants to identify potential savings. What impact will  
Manufacturing Excellence  have on the Lean program?
Over the past years, Lean has been  
the platform for a signiﬁcant 
improvement in the service we provide  
to customers, in terms of quality as  
well as delivery performance, and this helped us build leadership positions. 
As such, Lean remains a critical 
component of Manufacturing Excellence, and will continue to be deployed in the Company. In recent years, we implemented phase 1 and 2; we built Lean tools, and trained our employees and management on  how to use them, primarily through a 
top-down approach. We are now entering 
phase 3: a bottom-up approach to empower people and plants in setting targets and deciding how best to  achieve them. 
Jack Clark
Senior Vice President, Manufacturing Excellence and Chief Technical OfﬁcerManufacturing Excellence 
is about being efﬁcient, 
minimizing waste and 
above all, doing it in 
a safe environment.”
26 Constellium  Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Environment, Health and Safety
Our top priority
During 2016, we continued to make progress on delivering our 
commitment to Environment, Health and Safety (EHS). We are working 
hard to deliver the performance that our people and communities 
deserve. For us, EHS excellence is about developing a mindset where 
each of us makes EHS the top priority at all times.
Renewed commitment
Protecting the health and safety  
of our employees, contractors and visitors and minimizing our impact  on the environment will always be  the #1 priorities for Constellium. During the year, this commitment  was reafﬁrmed by our new EHS policy. The new policy document  sets out eight key steps for achieving excellence, from avoiding accidents by assessing the risks involved in  our daily work, to collaborating with customers and suppliers in the creation of new products. The EHS network collaborates closely 
with colleagues across the organization – including those in the Innovation function on issues such as molten metal safety and with the Lean team on areas including the reduction of risks through 8D problem-solving methodology. 
Environment
We experienced no major or signiﬁcant environmental incidents for the second year running. While this is cause for satisfaction, we remain committed to continuously improving our environmental performance, particularly in the areas of the amount of waste we send to landﬁll and energy consumption.  
During the year, our main focus was on waste management in the US, and we launched targeted recycling initiatives at both our Muscle Shoals and Ravenswood plants (see page 36). In 2017 , we will focus on clearly identifying all waste, and on identifying partners and technical solutions to recycle waste that is currently not recyclable by traditional means. 
Health
In addition to our work on Substances of Very High Concern, we launched a global health initiative in 2016. This raised awareness among our employees of the importance of physical activity, healthy food, sleep and mental well-being. We also recorded our lowest ever number of newly-
recognized work-related diseases, 
which fell to eight from 20 in the previous 
year. The reduction in conditions such as hearing loss is attributable to investment in new equipment and changes in working practices.Safety
While our Recordable Case Rate* has consistently been among the best in the industry, it increased during the year, from 2.86 to 3.31. This is a call to action for us and we have already taken strong measures across all sites to improve safety for all our employees. More encouraging was the fact that no 
recordable cases were experienced at 
seven sites and that we achieved our target of not more than four serious injuries across the Group. Looking ahead, we will focus on behavior-based measures and will ask each plant to develop a program based on employee involvement. We will continue our efforts to eliminate hand contact. Initiatives include our hands-free casting program and the launch of a plan to eliminate hand contact with suspended loads (see page 38).
Looking ahead
We face the future with the same  strong determination to deliver an  EHS performance that reﬂects our commitment to our people. 
Key initiatives for 2017 include a 
continuing focus on operator behavior, supported by supervisor training and the further roll-out of Standard Operating Procedures. We will also concentrate  on speciﬁc risk prevention programs, health management, waste management and energy.At Constellium, we actively 
demonstrate our commitment  
to EHS. Through the theme  
‘Take care of yourself, take care of  
others’, we empower our people to 
implement our new EHS policy  
in every moment of every day.”
Jean-Marc Germain  CEO0
recordable cases 
at seven sites 
(Gottmadingen, 
Levice, Nuits-
Saint-Georges, 
both plants at 
Valais, Bowling 
Green and our 
corporate ofﬁces) 60%
reduction in  
newly-recognized  
work-related 
diseases
0
major or  
signiﬁcant 
environmental 
incidents
*  Constellium’s Recordable Case Rate 
measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments per one million hours worked.EHS forms one of the key pillars  
of the Manufacturing Excellenc program, for more see page 38.
27 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusOperational excellence
Driving improvement  
through Manufacturing  
Excellence
Our Manufacturing Excellence program is about 
becoming the very best manufacturer in our business by 
focusing on being safe, doing our jobs and manufacturing 
our products efﬁciently and without waste. 
2016, the Year of Flexibility
After the Year of Quality in 2014 and the 
Year of Just-in-Time in 2015, 2016 was the Year of Flexibility. The main focus 
was on equipment changeovers, to make 
them safer, quicker and more efﬁcient. Speciﬁcally, we aimed to halve the  time needed to complete a changeover,  
while doing everything right the ﬁrst time. 
We also worked to have more frequent changeovers, so that we can produce smaller batches. This means shorter lead times for customers, improved on-time delivery and higher quality. 
Away from the production line,  
ofﬁce paperwork was another target. The aim was to respond more quickly  
to internal and external customers 
regarding tasks such as order 
processing, purchasing, ﬁnancial 
reporting and employee recruitment. Summary
  Constellium is taking a new approach 
to the pursuit of excellence at its production sites. While the objectives (working in a safe environment,  being efﬁcient, minimizing waste)  remain the same, we are changing our approach and organization to reﬂect recent progress.
  Manufacturing Excellence now  
brings several departments already involved in production under a single umbrella: Environment, Health and Safety, Reliability, Technology and Lean. A new Manufacturing Council comprised of Jack Clark, Senior  Vice President of Manufacturing Excellence and Chief Technical Ofﬁcer, and the three Business Unit Presidents (Ingrid Joerg, Arnaud Jouron and Paul Warton) will meet monthly to discuss production issues.  Lean is undergoing change as it  
enters phase 3 of its development, which focuses on empowering site management. Plants will now decide on the appropriate Lean tools to achieve their business priorities. 
  Manufacturing Excellence will  
greatly contribute to Project 2019  (see page 05) by optimizing the use  of our assets worldwide.
  Safety remains the #1 priority for all 
Manufacturing Excellence programs.
Manufacturing Excellence is 
about continuous improvement, 
about how we become the very 
best manufacturer we can be. 
It’s about taking full advantage 
of the talent of our people, our 
assets and our technology.”A poster campaign in multiple languages  
ensured that employees in all our facilities  were able to engage with the Year of Flexibility.
28 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016The evolution of Lean
Lean plays a key part in our vision of 
Manufacturing Excellence. Our Lean journey started in November 2012  
with an improved focus on people, 
customers and operations through a series of KPIs at the plant level. Phase 2, which was launched in 2015, built on that success – driving it deeper by involving production unit managers and extending Lean to our support functions.
Lean has already had a great impact 
on our performance and demanded the commitment and involvement of  all our people. Today, the vast majority  of plants and production unit managers now understand Lean principles and are using the tools in their everyday working lives.
We are now moving Lean to the next 
level, which shifts responsibilities for performance from senior management to the individual plants and ofﬁce functions. Production units and function managers will be tasked with delivering business results – including safety, proﬁtable growth and cash generation – and are empowered to decide which tools are most appropriate. The Central team will focus on providing 
support for tools and techniques,  and promoting best practice across  
our network of plants. Acting as a bridge 
between different production unit managers around the world that are carrying out similar processes, the team can share the approach taken by Constellium’s top performer in any given area. 
Optimizing the use of our assets
After a period of strong investment in the Company to build its future growth, all major investments are now up and running. These include new Auto Body Sheet lines in Bowling Green and Neuf-Brisach, new plants for the automotive structural parts business,  a pusher furnace at Ravenswood  and the expansion of our Decin plant.  Now is the time to beneﬁt from these investments and to deliver quality products, while strengthening our ﬁnancial position. Our Manufacturing Excellence programs will make a critical contribution to these objectives. 
Rather than investing in a new asset,  
we will be focusing on our existing assets, 
using all our plants as a global system 
and constantly looking to optimize the whole system, rather than optimizing individual plants. As part of our Manufacturing Excellence 
program, we will be strengthening this process, which is already implemented between Neuf-Brisach and Singen –  we use the existing capacity at Singen  to respond to the saturation of most of our equipment in Neuf-Brisach. 
Manufacturing Excellence will also 
enable us to identify potential savings. For example, a study on engineered inventory is already underway. Involving an analysis of the amount of inventory required in front of a piece of equipment, this study will help us target where we can reduce in-process inventory. As we look at reducing our capital spending in 2017 , Manufacturing Excellence projects will also review our maintenance capital to ensure that we protect our assets in the most efﬁcient way. 
Manufacturing Excellence  
is about optimizing the 
use of our assets, allowing 
Constellium to fully realize 
the beneﬁts of past 
investments.”
Our central Lean team shares best practice 
across Constellium.
Total Productive Maintenance Day  
in Singen, GermanyThe team at Muscle Shoals celebrates the  
award of their Lean ﬂag.
29 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusSustainability 
in focus30 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Reﬁning the way we manage sustainability
Representing all areas of our business, the Sustainability Council 
ensures that sustainability is fully integrated into everything we  do at Constellium. During 2016, we reorganized the Council in order to sharpen our focus on achieving our 2020 targets.
Tightening our focus to  
reach our targets
Sustainability is integral to everything 
we do. It inﬂuences every business decision we make and shapes how we work with customers, employees, communities and other stakeholders. The Sustainability Council sits at the heart of our commitment to sustainability. This formal body, founded in 2012, is responsible for deﬁning and updating Constellium’s sustainability policy.
During 2016, we reﬁned the Council’s 
structure and scope so that individual Council members are part of the taskforce that delivers our sustainability vision and targets. The objective is to create a more focused, responsive organization that can ensure that Constellium is on track to meet its 2020 sustainability objectives. Each Council member owns at least one of the following speciﬁc action areas:
 – Increasing the beverage can recycling 
rate in Europe and the US;
 – Ensuring that customer satisfaction 
is measured and shows regular improvement;
 – Making progress in safety;
 – Increasing employee satisfaction;
 – Ensuring that all sites have a 
community program;
 – Improving energy efﬁciency;
 – Reducing production waste sent 
to landﬁll;
 – Evaluating the sustainability 
performance of all key direct and indirect suppliers;
 – Gaining certiﬁcation for at least one 
plant to the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative standard; and
 – Establishing a greenhouse gas 
emissions reduction target.
 Sustainability is at the  
heart of everything we do
The Council meets four times a year, 
including one meeting with the Executive Committee of Constellium.
The Council’s members represent 
every area of our business, reﬂecting our view that sustainability is everyone’s responsibility. After serving on the Sustainability Council since 2012, ﬁve members stood down in 2016. We would like to place on record our thanks for the huge contributions made by Béatrice Charon, Sophia Elasri, Frédéric Dunod, Rovertos Gross and Guy-Michel Raynaud. Together, they have helped advance our sustainability agenda.  New members were appointed during the year, including Arnaud Jouron, President, Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products, who became Chairman of the Council. He replaced Ingrid Joerg, President, Aerospace and Transportation, who remains an Advisor to the Council. Catherine Athènes, General Secretary of the Council, works with the Chairman to ensure a clear roadmap is developed to achieve the Company’s sustainability targets and measure progress towards these targets.
  For more information on how Constellium 
is managed, please see the Governance 
section on pages 12–16
  For information on materiality and 
engagement, please see the GRI  content index on pages 56–60Members of the 
Sustainability Council
Arnaud Jouron   
President, Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products (Chairman)
Philippe Abeillon   
Director of Engineering, Aerospace and Transportation
Christel des Royeries   
Director, Communication  Europe and Digital Global
Susanne Dock   
Human Resources Business Partner,  Core Executive Team
Christian Keidel  
Group Director, Strategic Purchasing, Metal and Energy
Stéphanie Massambi   
Group Environment Manager
Olivier Néel   
Group Sustainability Manager
Mike Tanchuk   
CEO, Muscle Shoals plant
Philippe Tchen   
Group Director, Indirect Purchasing
Catherine Athènes   
Marketing Director, Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products and General Secretary of the Council31 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusOur sustainability targets: overview
Products
We will enhance the environmental beneﬁts of 
our products and improve customer satisfaction.
Increase beverage can recycling
Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance:
80% beverage can 
recycling rate by 2020 in EuropeRecycling rates from large countries in 
Europe indicate that we are on track.
Status: On track
Work with the 
industry and with our stakeholders to increase the beverage can recycling rate in the USThe beverage can recycling rate 
actually decreased in 2016, from 54.4% to 49.5%. 
Status: Off track
Increase customer satisfaction
Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance:
Each business unit to 
carry out a customer satisfaction survey every two yearsFollowing an extensive customer 
satisfaction survey across the Company, we have launched speciﬁc action plans at business unit, plant and market segment levels. 
Status: 
On trackPeople
We will ensure our people are safe,  
skilled, motivated and engaged.
Further improve our safety record
Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance:
Reduce our Recordable 
Case Rate* every year by 10%Our performance deteriorated 
in 2016, from 2.86 to 3.31.
Status: Off track
A maximum of four 
serious injuries a year by 2020In 2016 we experienced four  
serious injuries.
Status: On track
Be in the industry’s  
top quartile in terms  of safety resultsThe industry has made progress both 
in Europe and the US but we remain ahead in terms of performance.
Status: 
On track
Engage our people
Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance:
Six point increase  
in overall employee satisfaction by 2020, from a 2014 baselineThe 2016 survey showed a 2% 
improvement versus the 2014 survey,  
with a stable participation rate.
Status: On track
Strengthen our communities
Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance:
At least one  
community activity  per site every yearMore than half of our plants 
organized a community program in 2016, with our US sites being particularly active. 
Status: 
On track
*  Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious 
injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments per one million hours worked. Continue to innovate
We constantly innovate to offer lighter, safer and 
inﬁnitely recyclable solutions to our customers.  All our major new innovation projects undergo  
Life Cycle Assessments and we are working to increase the percentage of our sales from innovative products.
 More information on pages 18–19More information on pages 36–37
 More information on pages 38–40
32 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Operations
We will minimize the impact  
of our operations.
Reduce production waste  
sent to landﬁll
Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance:
Reduce production 
waste going to landﬁll by 10%, including Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015)Due mainly to temporary and 
non-recurrent issues, the amount of production waste going to landﬁll increased in 2016. Improved data collection process have led to an updated 2015 data baseline.
Status: Off track
Improve energy efﬁciency
Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance:
10% energy efﬁciency 
improvement by 2020, including Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015)Our energy efﬁciency only improved 
by 0.3%, which is lower than the average annual improvement of 2% required to achieve our target.
Status: Off trackResponsible business
We will manage our business  
in an ethical and responsible way.
Build a standard for aluminium
Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance:
Have at least one  
site ASI certiﬁed by  2020 (based on the assumption that there will be a certiﬁcation scheme in place)We have actively participated in 
ﬁnalizing the ASI certiﬁcation program, which will be available early 2018.
Status: 
On track
Ensure sustainable purchasing
Our new 2020 target: 2016 performance:
100% of key suppliers 
and those suppliers initially assessed as high risk evaluated  or audited according  to United Nations Global Compact  principles by 2020At the end of 2016, we had evaluated 
key suppliers which represent 20% of the key suppliers’ spending. We also conducted on-site audits at 10 out of 11 suppliers identiﬁed as carrying high risks. 
Status: 
On track
Deﬁne a GHG emissions target
Continue to monitor and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) across our value chain
We have a long track record of monitoring our GHG emissions. This data allows us to understand emissions, 
and complements our environmental initiatives around energy management. We are now working on 
deﬁning an emissions reduction target and developing a suitable plan to achieve it.
More information on page 45
More information on pages 41–42
 More information on pages 43–44
33 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusSustainability highlights
Reducing energy consumption
Although aluminium has extensive 
beneﬁts across the life-cycle of products, its production is a relatively energy-intensive activity. 
First established towards the end of 
2015, our energy network is tasked with reducing energy consumption in order to reduce our environmental footprint and also cut costs. In February 2016, the network came 
together at our Singen plant in Germany for its ﬁrst ofﬁcial meeting. 
Energy managers from all Constellium 
plants shared their plans on how they would contribute to meeting our 2020 target of a 10% reduction in energy efﬁciency improvement from a 2015 baseline. The outcome of the meeting included a clear roadmap for each plant,  which is reviewed quarterly by our  business units.Identifying the future 
of recycling
Our teams work hard to understand and 
plan for the ﬂow of recycled material –  not just for this year or next, but for the decades to come.
For example, we have developed a 
Material Flow Analysis model which maps the anticipated ﬂow of recycled material in Europe by market as well  as by alloy family. We presented the model to the industry at the Aluminium Fair in Düsseldorf in December 2016. 
We will use the model to guide our  
future decisions related to recycling initiatives and investments.2016 was another year of progress, as we launched or extended 
a number of important sustainability projects and programs.  Here we focus on several examples that demonstrate the innovative nature and diversity of our efforts to embed sustainability as a way of life across Constellium.
Recycling Nespresso capsules
A cup of Nespresso coffee may often 
mark the end of a meal, but it does not mean the end of the used capsule. 
Our Singen plant is at the center of 
a new initiative which has seen us work closely with Nespresso to transform end-of-life coffee capsules into iconic Victorinox knives and Zena peelers, as well as new capsules. 
Once the capsules have been sorted  
by waste management companies,  they are recycled and delivered to Singen where we process the slabs  into high-quality aluminium which is then shipped to the appropriate manufacturers. 
The launch of the knives and peelers 
made from recycled capsules was celebrated at a special event in Zürich  
in July 2016, in the presence of the CEOs 
of both Nespresso and Victorinox.
34 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Simple recycling for new alloy
Launched in 2016, our new Constellium 
HSA6™ product is a 6xxx high-strength 
alloy that enables us to reduce the weight of automotive structural  
parts while at the same time providing 
greater strength.
A key objective in the development of 
HSA6 was to ensure simple recycling.  As most current automotive alloys are either 5xxx or 6xxx, HSA6 does not add a new alloy family and can therefore  be recycled using existing solutions, unlike our competitors’ 7xxx alloys. 
Constellium HSA6™ is now in production 
on several vehicle programs across  the globe.Rolling out a bright idea  
across the United States
An idea that began life as an employee 
initiative at Ravenswood in the US has now been taken up at all our sites  across the country. Under the CARES banner, our people have helped local communities in a wide variety of ways.  At Muscle Shoals, American Heart Month saw our people raising awareness of heart disease as well as funds  for The American Heart Association. Our Ravenswood team organized a community clean-up and ‘painted the plant in pink’ to raise awareness of breast cancer, while at Van Buren this year’s highlights included a food drive and a home renovation project. 
Improving safety in our casthouses 
The ﬁrst stage in the casting process is the time when molten metal is at its most 
hazardous. In addition to introducing a number of actions that will protect casthouse 
operators with immediate effect, we also launched a more fundamental project which aimed to reduce the exposure of the operators to such risk. This was based on automating the process, with remote monitoring via video and sensors, and optimizing the casting start-up procedures. After carrying out a successful pilot project at C-TEC, this new way of working has been deployed on several casting lines and we now plan to extend it to all casting lines across 
Constellium. The success 
of this project was acknowledged by a THANK YOU AWARD in 2016, an internal award 
which recognizes top contributing projects.Stressing the importance of working safely
Representing 20 Constellium  sites, more than 300 of our  employees’ children participated  in an art competition, illustrating  ‘Why we work safely’. Their artworks were showcased  
in a company-wide poster campaign  to help strengthen our safety culture  
and improve our safety performance. 
35 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusProducts
Increase 
beverage can 
recycling
As a major player in the 
beverage can stock market, 
we are committed to working 
with all relevant stakeholders 
to increase the percentage of 
aluminium cans that undergo 
end-of-life recycling in 
Europe and the US. 
2020 target
80% beverage can recycling rate 
by 2020 in Europe 
2016 status
On track
2020 target
Work with the industry and with 
our stakeholders to increase the 
beverage can recycling rate 
in the US 
2016 status
Off trackContinuous improvement in Europe
Aluminium beverage can recycling rate 
ﬁgures for 2014, from large countries in Europe, show that the 75% target for 2015 is within reach. In a representative panel of beverage can consuming countries, the recycling rate from 2013 to 2014 has either increased (Italy from 
67% to 74%, France from 63% to 67%, 
Poland from 79% to 80%) or stayed the same (Germany with 99%, UK with 65%).
A major factor in this success story, 
the European Aluminium Association, in cooperation with packaging manufacturers, continued to work closely with the European Parliament and member states as well as other materials industry associations. The aim is to build a constructive dialog for the circular economy. This initiative includes positioning aluminium as a permanent material and identifying the right point of measurement for recycling. It also seeks to establish recycling targets which are both realistic and ambitious, and which recognize sustainable practices that have already been established by the aluminium industry.Slow overall progress in the US…
Unfortunately, 2016 saw no improvement 
in the recycling rate in the US. In fact, 
the recycling rate went down. The situation  
is complicated by different legislations 
and behaviors in different states. Although some areas provide efﬁcient collection and sorting services, others provide none.
…but positive moves at Constellium
While the industry needs to work 
together to improve the end-of-life recycling rate in the US, we succeeded in increasing our own recycling activities during 2016. Our new furnace will increase the recycling capacity of our Element 13 facility in Muscle Shoals from 14 billion to nearly 20 billion cans per year – almost one ﬁfth of the cans sold in the US.
Looking ahead 
  Continue to support European 
Aluminium and the Every Can Counts program. 
  Work with The Aluminum Association 
and Can Manufacturers Institute to intensify US recycling efforts. 
Environment
“With already high and still 
improving recycling rates, 
aluminium packaging is well 
prepared for the European 
Circular Economy.”
Maarten G. Labberton
Director Packaging Group, 
European AluminiumOur sustainability targets
New recycling furnace  
at Muscle Shoals
Using advanced technologies, 
the new furnace meets the Best Available Control Technology  environmental requirements. It is expected to improve the safety, energy efﬁciency and environmental footprint of the plant, while signiﬁcantly increasing our recycling capacity.
36 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Products
Increase 
customer 
satisfaction
Satisﬁed customers are 
the key to a sustainable 
future. Every two years, each 
business unit carries out an 
extensive survey in order to 
measure and understand what 
customers think of us. In 2016, 
this survey was organized 
company-wide in a centralized 
and standardized way for 
the ﬁrst time.
2020 target
Each business unit to carry out 
a customer satisfaction survey 
every two years 
2016 status
On trackAn extensive survey
The 2016 survey was conducted with over 
300 customers, representing more than half of our customer base. It measured 
satisfaction across a number of different 
areas: product range and quality; the service provided by our sales team; technical support; claim management; 
supply chain; innovation; communication; 
and sustainability performance.
The survey was conducted via 20-minute 
phone interviews. The customer sample reﬂected a broad cross-section of the customer base of our three business units and included a representative variety of functions and hierarchical levels within our customers’ businesses.
Pleasing results – but still room 
for improvement
Overall, customers are satisﬁed with 
our products and services. However, the degree of satisfaction varies by business unit and, to a greater extent, by market segment (packaging, aerospace or automotive) and even by sub-segment (functional surface, heat exchangers, transportation industry or defense).Developing our response
While the survey highlighted a few areas, 
such as supply chain, which require addressing at Group level, the speciﬁc 
nature of the results shows that action 
plans are best developed by speciﬁc sales and production teams.
For example, feedback from one particular group of customers was that we should work more closely with them on innovation. We are therefore organizing meetings where we present our R&T capabilities 
and collaborate on relevant innovations. 
Other customers reported unsatisfactory levels of on-time deliveries. Our response has been to develop a system to ﬂag potential delays and enable us to make a timely intervention.
Looking ahead 
  Monitor the effectiveness of our 
action plans. 
  Conduct another customer survey 
in 2018. 
Recognizing performance
During the year, we were delighted 
to win a major honor for supplier performance, awarded by our customer Valeo Group. We have a 
long track record of co-development with Valeo and this award is a tribute 
to the hard work and customer focus of our heat exchanger team.
Left to right: 
Marc Guédon Purchasing Director, Valeo Group 
Kevin Gatenby  Project and Site Manager (R&T Hub Plymouth), Constellium 
Lionel Gerber  Segment Manager – Heat Exchanger and Foilstock, Constellium 
Yann Delarocheaulion Segment Director – Rolled Aluminum, Valeo Group 
Vincent Louyot Non-Ferrous and Transformation Group Commodity Director, 
Valeo Group
Innovation partnership 
with Can-Pack
Since June 2014, we have been 
working closely with Can-Pack to develop innovative solutions that save metal, reduce weight and improve production efﬁciency.  We provided support in several  
areas including numerical modeling, 
data analysis and aluminium metallurgy as well as innovative patented solutions such as  convolute blank design. The close relationship between our team  and Can-Pack has opened up an opportunity to work together  on new product development, underlining our reputation as  the leading and most innovative aluminium metal supplier.37 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusPeople
Further 
improve our 
safety record
Nothing is more important 
to us than the safety of our 
employees and contractors. 
Sadly, our 2016 safety 
performance fell short of 
our high expectations – 
and we therefore approach 
the years ahead with 
renewed commitment.
2020 target
Be in the industry’s top quartile 
in terms of safety results
2016 status
On track2020 target
A maximum of four serious 
injuries a year by 2020  
2016 status
On track2020 target
Reduce our Recordable Case 
Rate* every year by 10%  
2016 status
Off trackOur sustainability targets (continued)
Recordable Case Rate*
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 201613.3
10.8
8.6
7.2
5.13.8 3.5 3.22.6 2.7 2.7 2.8510152025
24.5
13.3
Legacy Constellium
Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green and ChangchunEuropean Aluminium
US Bureau of Labor Statistics Aluminium11.510.7
8.47.26.2 6.36.97.8 7.8
9.27.3
2.863.313.726.0
19.018.517.518.5
15.014.0 14.0 13.516.0
10.0Safety ambassadors  
in Gottmadingen
Safety ambassadors are volunteers 
on each shift whose role is to promote safety practices among their colleagues. Feedback from shift supervisors ensures that safety ambassadors stay engaged and motivated in their role.
*  Constellium’s Recordable Case Rate 
measures 
the number of fatalities, serious 
injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work 
injuries or medical treatments per one million hours worked.Increase in recordable case rate
We are disappointed to report that our 
recordable case rate increased during the year, from 2.86 to 3.31. This trend occurred across most sites and means that we must develop and implement improved safety initiatives Company-wide.
Decrease in serious injuries
We believe that one serious injury is one 
too many – and although we achieved 
our target of no more than four serious injuries in 2016, we will never be satisﬁed or complacent. In fact, incidents in the ﬁrst months of 2017 served as stark reminders of the need to be relentless in our pursuit of safety excellence.
Safety initiatives deliver success
Despite relatively disappointing results, 
our activities did deliver a number of successes during the year. For example, our Muscle Shoals and Singen sites reduced their recordable case rates,  with Singen achieving a historic low level of 1.47 per one million hours worked.We continued to roll out our safety 
policy in 2016, reviewing the Standard Operating Procedures in all our plants. We also made further progress on standardizing our Hazard Identiﬁcation Risk Assessment and Risk Control  processes, with 69% now complete.
As safety is closely aligned with  
behavior, we continued to provide  
regular coaching to our shift supervisors, 
with one supervisor coached every month on safety leadership.
Looking ahead 
  Each plant to develop a program 
focused on employee involvement, safe behavior and hazard identiﬁcation. 
  Continue the hands-free casting 
program; commence a program to eliminate hand contact with suspended loads; and implement the environmental assessment. 
  Roll out the ‘Take 5’ program to 
encourage people to spend ﬁve minutes assessing the risk of non-routine activities.
  Establish behavior-based measures 
such as the Ambassador program in all plants (see case study on the left). 
Labor Rights
38 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016People
Engage 
our people
An engaged workforce is 
the foundation for a strong 
and productive business. 
Every two years, we carry 
out a comprehensive survey 
in order to measure the 
satisfaction of our employees 
and track our progress 
towards our 2020 target.
2020 target
Six point increase  
in overall employee satisfaction 
by 2020, from a 2014 baseline
2016 status
On track   Improved communication 
spaces at Neuf-Brisach
We reorganized our communication 
spaces at Neuf-Brisach in order  to improve employee awareness  of important information regarding the site, the business unit and  the Company. 
Strong progress in US
At Ravenswood, a range of activities have helped achieve an uplift in employee satisfaction. These include more training, more presentations on the Company strategy and speciﬁc initiatives around recognition and reward.
On track to meet our target
During 2016, we carried out our most 
recent global employee survey. With a 75% response rate (identical to the 2014 survey), the survey showed a two point increase in satisfaction, conﬁrming that we are on track to achieve our 2020 target of a six point increase.
Highlights included strong progress in the US, driven by initiatives at our Ravenswood site (see below) as well as improved scores in several key areas These included interactions with management, our Environment, Health and Safety policy and practices, empowerment and general job satisfaction.
Aiming for further improvements
At the same time, the survey revealed 
opportunities where we can make further improvements, particularly  in leadership, communication and culture. Global action plans have  already been launched to better explain our strategy, to improve management communication and to strengthen  the sense of belonging. 
In addition, we are sharing best practice 
across Constellium in order to address a number of site-speciﬁc issues, with each plant and ofﬁce tasked with developing an appropriate action plan. Workshops have been organized, and progress is monitored monthly by our HR team and quarterly by business unit management.Looking ahead 
  Roll out all activities related to 
communication, leadership and 
Company culture.
  Follow up activities at each site. 
  Carry out the next survey in 2018.
Labor Rights
Gottmadingen scored 
particularly well on 
satisfaction with our 
leadership. This is due 
to open and transparent 
communication on matters 
such as investment  
and nominations as  
well as regular dialog  
between management  
and employees.”
Adalbert Maier
Plant Manager, Gottmadingen 39 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusPeople
Strengthen 
our 
communities
We are committed to 
supporting the communities 
close to our operations, 
playing a part in their 
successes and being a good 
neighbor. Our target is for 
each site to identify where our 
involvement can make a real 
difference, and to introduce 
at least one community action 
per site per year.
2020 target
At least one  
community activity  
per site every year
2016 status
On track   Ravenswood in pink
October is breast cancer month in 
the US. Everyone is invited to wear pink, including all Ravenswood employees. The aim is to educate people about the disease and how early detection can improve outcomes.
Supporting employment
Employees in our Paris ofﬁce donated unworn business clothes to La Cravate Solidaire, an organization dedicated to helping unemployed people prepare for interviews. Constellium donated 10 euros per kilo of clothing given by employees.Our sustainability targets (continued)
Laying the foundations
We have provided every site with 
guidelines and examples of relevant programs such as those focusing on environmental awareness, educational and social issues, community outreach, and sports and healthcare. However, we know that local sites are best-placed 
to identify local needs – and the ﬁnal 
decision on which programs to implement is taken at a local level.
Early successes
Some sites already have a track record 
of implementing extensive community programs. For example, at our plant in Ravenswood, West Virginia, employees are regularly involved in events ranging from supporting health campaigns to encouraging children to read.
At the same time, other sites remain 
in the early stages of establishing their community involvement. A number  of projects are planned for 2017 ,  with the highlights including the  50th anniversaries of our Neuf-Brisach and C-TEC sites. These events will  focus on community participation  and educating local people about  our operations and our customers.
A Company-wide program
Keen to play their part, our ofﬁces have 
also organized a range of community events. While many of these involved sporting or charity events – such as our Zurich employees competing in a race – others have focused on 
supporting employment opportunities 
(see below).Looking ahead 
  Support all sites as they work to 
identify and implement a relevant 
program. Use quarterly management meetings to share best practice and enable teams to learn from the experiences of others. 
  Strengthen guidelines and 
recommendations based on 
feedback and the outcome of events. 
  Follow up twice a year across 
each business unit.
“As a large company, 
we believe we have a 
responsibility to support our  
community. Our diverse and  
extensive program has 
increased the engagement  
of our employees. They feel  
prouder to belong to a  
company which cares.”
Buddy Stemple
CEO, Ravenswood plant40 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Operations
Reduce 
production 
waste sent  
to landﬁll
We have implemented 
several programs to recycle 
production waste at key 
sites and expect a signiﬁcant 
reduction in the amount 
we send to landﬁll over 
the next ﬁve years. 
2020 target
Reduce production waste going 
to landﬁll by 10%, including 
Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015)
2016 status
Off trackGreater focus and better measurement
The increased focus on production waste 
has enabled us to improve the ways in which we measure waste. It has also helped us identify waste streams of which we were previously unaware. 
The reporting of this 
‘new’ waste has 
inevitably led to an increase  in the total 
amount of waste produced.
Good progress
During the year, we placed particular 
emphasis on waste management in the US. For example, at Muscle Shoals we installed recycling dumpsters to separate plastic, cardboard and paper for recycling. This initiative has already reduced the amount of mixed waste sent to landﬁll by 400 tons, a decrease of 8%. At Ravenswood, a similar approach has seen the installation of new sorting bins, and discussions are ongoing with a local recycler to further improve our performance.
Challenges remain
One of our most important goals is 
to clearly identify all waste. Another key challenge is to recycle waste that is currently not recyclable by traditional means. For example, we are continuing to work with partners such as Strasbourg University in order to ﬁnd ways to process ﬂue-gas dust.
For our US operations, a major  
challenge is to identify local facilities able to recycle our sorted waste.Looking ahead 
  Ensure that data is gathered 
accurately.
  Identify partners for all mixed 
scrap and ensure waste is sorted 
at plant level . 
  Find technical solutions for 
speciﬁc production waste such 
as ﬂue-gas dust.
Environment 
150,000
120,000
90,000
60,000
30,000Production waste  Metric tons  
120,229
129,44527,928
34,2236,850
6,95685,451
88,266
2015 2016Recycling Incineration Landﬁll Total tons/year
Better sorting
New sorting containers at Muscle 
Shoals are ensuring that mixed scrap is not sent to landﬁll.
“We have put in place a speciﬁc 
Sustainability Committee in 
our plant to push and review 
all actions related to the 
Group sustainability target.” 
Mike Tanchuk 
CEO, Muscle Shoals plant41  Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusOperations
Improve 
energy 
efﬁciency
By sharing best practice 
across Constellium, our well-
established energy network is 
the driving force for efﬁciency 
improvements. Progress is 
reported to the business units 
on a regular basis.
2020 target
10% energy efﬁciency 
improvement by 2020, including 
Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015)
2016 status
Off trackDisappointing progress
Our target is to increase energy 
efﬁciency by 10% by 2020, from a 2015 baseline. This translates into an average improvement of 2.1% per year. During  the last 12 months we recorded only  a 0.3% improvement, largely due to the temporary effects of ramp-ups and 
operational changes.
Ramping up new investments leads 
to additional consumption
The proven success and sound 
prospects of our business units have been the foundations for signiﬁcant investments in new production equipment at many of our plants. While such investments are excellent indicators of the Company’s strength, they have the unavoidable effect of temporarily impacting our energy performance. During the ramp-up period, energy consumption rises while output remains low. This is particularly true at four of our sites: Decin, where we built a new casting unit; Muscle Shoals, where we upgraded casting units and invested in new pit furnaces; and at Neuf-Brisach and Singen where we  have invested to meet the growing demand of the automotive segment.On track with our projects
However, we have continued to target 
improvements and all our energy-related projects remain on schedule. For example, new furnaces at Muscle Shoals, Neuf-Brisach, Issoire and Ravenswood are coming on stream, and will start to deliver results in 2017 . Other improvements will be delivered by upgrades to our rolling mills and changes in slab dimensions as well as the installation of LED lighting. In addition to equipment upgrades and new energy efﬁcient equipment, signiﬁcant energy efﬁciency improvements should be delivered by improving process control, sharing best practice and increasing metal yields.
Looking ahead 
  Deliver current projects in order 
to achieve the expected energy savings.
  Make further improvements to 
our metal recovery. 
  Identify and launch new projects 
to ensure we achieve our goals.
Environment
Changing the way we work
At Issoire, our production, quality, 
sales and engineering teams worked together to develop a new wide slab format that has removed the need for two energy-intensive stages of production, thereby reducing our energy consumption.Our sustainability targets (continued)
Through the energy network, 
we share best practice  
and ensure that all plants  
fully embrace our energy  
efﬁciency goals.” 
Philippe Abeillon 
A&T Director of Engineering,  
Energy Network leader 42 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Responsible business
Build a 
standard for 
aluminium
Supported by Constellium, 
the Aluminium Stewardship 
Initiative (ASI) is building a 
standard for the responsible 
production and usage of 
aluminium. We expect a 
certiﬁcation process to be 
in place at the end of 2017 
and aim to have at least one 
of our plants certiﬁed by 2020.
2020 target
Have at least one  
site ASI certiﬁed by 2020 
(based on the assumption that 
there will be a certiﬁcation 
scheme in place)
2016 status
On trackSigniﬁcant expansion
When we joined the ASI, membership 
comprised just six companies. Later, as one of 14 members, we were one of the main instigators of the ASI’s performance standard. We are pleased that the organization now has over 40 members, including companies at both 
ends of the value chain – from Alcoa  
and Rusal to Coca-Cola and Apple.
Developing a certiﬁcation process
In April 2016, we were elected to 
the Standards Committee, the body responsible for developing the standard’s certiﬁcation process. The Committee, strongly supported  by ASI Secretariat, meets regularly  and has already made good progress:  a pilot project during the summer of  2017 is expected to be followed by the full launch of the certiﬁcation program by the end of the year.
Working to achieve our target
Although we have not made our ﬁnal 
choice of which Constellium plant(s) will be the ﬁrst to apply for certiﬁcation, the most likely candidate should be from the Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products business unit.Looking ahead: for the 
ASI organization
  Following public consultation 
regarding the Chain of Custody 
standard, take feedback on-board  and enter a second round of consultation before summer 2017 .
  Issue the assurance manual, the 
revised performance standard and 
the guidance documents for public consultation before summer 2017 . 
  Ensure all documentation is ﬁnalized 
by the end of 2017 , and that auditors are selected and accredited.
Looking ahead: for Constellium
  Launch a pilot project in 2017 .
“The launch of the ASI 
certiﬁcation scheme in 
2018 has the potential to 
drive signiﬁcant change in 
the aluminium value chain. 
While we continue to discuss 
related opportunities with our 
customers, we are also looking 
at our own manufacturing 
operations and our supplier 
partners to determine areas 
we need to improve upon  
in order to comply with  
the ASI standards.  
At Ball, we see ASI as one 
piece of the puzzle to make 
the can the most sustainable 
packaging solution.” 
Björn Kulmann 
Director Global Sustainability, 
Ball Corporation Anti-Corruption, Human Rights,  Labor Rights and Environment
43 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusResponsible business
Ensure 
sustainable 
purchasing
We want to work with suppliers 
who are as committed to 
sustainability as we are. 
All suppliers are required to 
commit to our Code of Conduct 
– and our evaluation processes 
include on-site audits in 
speciﬁc markets and regions. 
2020 target
100% of key suppliers and those 
suppliers initially assessed 
as high risk evaluated  
or audited according to 
United Nations Global Compact 
principles by 2020
2016 status
On trackEvaluating more suppliers
In 2016 we continued to use Ecovadis  
to evaluate the sustainability performance of our key suppliers,  which account for more than 65% of  our total expenditure. To date, we have evaluated suppliers representing 20% 
of the total key suppliers’ spending. 
We also identiﬁed 11 suppliers that potentially carried greater sustainability related risks due to their location and activities, conducting on-site audits of 10 of them.
Improving performance
Overall, our suppliers performed well. 
There was one exception and we are working with this particular supplier in order to help them achieve a better rating in 2017 . The on-site audits continued to deliver valuable information, speciﬁcally on labor and safety issues.
Encouraging Aluminium Stewardship 
Initiative (ASI) membership
We are pleased that more of our metal 
suppliers have joined the ASI. This will support us in our drive to provide ASI metal to our customers in the future.
Training our purchasing teams
Our purchasing teams are key  
to improving supplier sustainability.  We aim to empower these teams,  giving them the skills and the tools  they need to make a real difference.  For example, during 2016 we introduced a four-hour training program for our purchasing managers. These sessions cover our global 
sustainability policy, the challenges  of sustainable purchasing practices  and the methodologies to deliver them. More than 40 purchasing managers  were trained during 2016 and in the  ﬁrst months of 2017.
Looking ahead 
  Expand Ecovadis evaluation to cover 
key suppliers by site, as well as our aluminium scrap suppliers.
  Ensure that all suppliers have signed 
up to our Code of Conduct. 
  Following evaluation, deﬁne action 
plans where relevant and follow up 
those plans.
“RHI is a key partner for us, 
delivering refractory material 
to our sites in Europe.  
We asked for their 
sustainability performance 
to be evaluated by Ecovadis 
and they scored high marks. 
For Constellium, evaluation  
is not about ticking a box  
but about making progress.” 
Ramon Lorente 
Manager, Strategic Purchasing
Compliance in action
One of our most important aluminium suppliers, Emirates Global Aluminium (EGA), has made good progress in complying with  our sustainable purchasing policy. The company achieved a very  good silver rating in the Ecovadis sustainability evaluation and has also recently joined the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative. Our sustainability targets (continued)
Anti-Corruption, Human Rights, Labor Rights and Environment
44 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Across our value chain
Deﬁne  
a GHG 
emissions 
target
We have a long track 
record of monitoring our 
greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions. This data allows 
us to understand emissions, 
and complements our 
environmental initiatives 
around energy management. 
We are now working on 
deﬁning an emissions 
reduction target and 
developing a suitable plan 
to achieve it.Stable emissions intensity
During 2016, our own GHG emissions 
(Scope 1 and Scope 2)1 increased  
at a similar rate as our production volumes, leading to a globally stable emission intensity across Constellium (see graphs below).
Deﬁning our GHG emission target 
across the full life-cycle of our products
Measuring our own emissions, however, 
is not sufﬁcient to describe the impact of our activities. There are two reasons for this.
 – Firstly, our product mix is moving 
towards more energy-intensive products such as automotive body sheet. These products help to decrease GHG emissions during their use, due to savings in mass (see pages 08–09 for more details).
 – Secondly, we are increasing our 
recycling capacity. Using recycled aluminium reduces the need for primary aluminium, and signiﬁcantly reduces GHG emissions. However, it also increases our own emissions for the same quantity of products shipped because the impacts associated with recycling and casting operations become incorporated in our own ﬁgures. Therefore, we are currently working to 
deﬁne a target that takes into account the full life-cycle of our products. 
To achieve this, we developed and  
are currently ﬁne-tuning a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) model. Before it can become fully auditable, this model will need to be veriﬁed by a third party. 
In addition, our LCA model will support 
local EHS management, as it is aligned with the updated ISO14001:2015 standard, which speciﬁes the introduction of a life-cycle approach into environmental management.
Looking ahead 
  Complete the LCA model and run 
appropriate scenarios for the 
next 5–10 years.
  Proceed to the third party 
veriﬁcation of our model. 
  Deﬁne and communicate a suitable 
GHG reduction target. 
Scope 2 Scope 1 (Scope 1+2)Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity   t of CO 2 per t of aluminium
0.50 0.49
0.29 0.300.79 0.79
2015 2016
Scope 2 Scope 1 (Scope 1+2)Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions   kt CO 2e
Figures have been rounded to the nearest kt CO 2e.1,600
1,200
800400752 759
434 4561,185 1,215
2015 2016Our next step is to deﬁne 
an ambitious but realistic 
GHG emissions reduction 
target which is consistent 
with our position in the 
aluminium value chain.” 
Béatrice Charon  
Vice President, Business Planning1  Scope 1 or ‘direct’ emissions refer to emissions 
occurring within our plants, while Scope 2 or 
‘indirect’ emissions refer to emissions associated 
with the production of the electricity we use.
Stable emissions intensity45 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusPerformance 
in focus46 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Consolidated income statement
(in millions of euros)Year ended  
December 31, 2016Year ended  
December 31, 2015Year ended  
December 31, 2014
Revenue 4,743 5,153 3,666
Cost of sales (4,227) (4,703) (3,183)
Gross proﬁt 516 450 483
Selling and administrative expenses (254) (245) (200)
Research and development expenses (32) (35) (38)
Restructuring costs (5) (8) (12)
Impairment – (457) –
Other gains/(losses) – net 21 (131) (83)
Income/(loss) from operations 246 (426) 150
Finance costs – net (167) (155) (58)
Share of loss of joint ventures (14) (3) (1)
Income/(loss) before income tax 65 (584) 91
Income tax (expense)/beneﬁt (69) 32 (37)
Net (loss)/income (4) (552) 54
Net (loss)/income attributable to:
Equity holders of Constellium (4) (554) 51
Non-controlling interests – 23
Net (loss)/income (4) (552) 54
Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of Constellium
(in euros per share)Year ended  
December 31, 2016Year ended  
December 31, 2015Year ended  
December 31, 2014
Basic (0.04) (5.27) 0.48
Diluted (0.04) (5.27) 0.48
Note: More detailed information on our ﬁnancial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at:  
www.constellium.com/aluminium-company/ﬁnance/regulatory-ﬁlings47 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusConsolidated statement of ﬁnancial position
(in millions of euros) At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2015
Assets
Current assetsCash and cash equivalents
347 472
Trade receivables and other 355 365
Inventories 591 542
Other ﬁnancial assets 117 70
1,410 1,449
Non-current assetsProperty, plant and equipment
1,477 1,255
Goodwill 457 443
Intangible assets 79 78
Investments accounted for under equity method 16 30
Deferred income tax assets 252 270
Trade receivables and other 47 53
Other ﬁnancial assets 49 37
2,377 2,166
Assets classiﬁed as held for sale – 13
Total assets 3,787 3,628
LiabilitiesCurrent liabilitiesTrade payables and other
839 867
Borrowings 107 169
Other ﬁnancial liabilities 34 107
Income tax payable 13 6
Provisions 42 44
1,035 1,193
Non-current liabilitiesTrade payables and other
59 54
Borrowings 2,361 2,064
Other ﬁnancial liabilities 30 14
Pension and other post-employment beneﬁt obligations 735 701
Provisions 107 119
Deferred income tax liabilities 30 10
3,322 2,962
Liabilities classiﬁed as held for sale – 13
Total liabilities 4,357 4,168
EquityShare capital
2 2
Share premium 162 162
Retained deﬁcit and other reserves (743) (715)
Equity attributable to equity holders of Constellium (579) (551)
Non-controlling interests 9 11
Total equity (570) (540)
Total equity and liabilities 3,787 3,62848 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
(in millions of euros)Year ended 
December 31, 2016Year ended 
December 31, 2015Year ended 
December 31, 2014
Net (loss)/income (4) (552) 54
Adjustments Depreciation and amortization 
155 140 49
 Finance costs – net 167 155 58
 Income tax expense/(beneﬁt) 69 (32) 37
 Share of loss of joint-ventures 14 3–
  Unrealized (gains)/losses on derivatives – net and from 
remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities – net (74) 23 52
 Losses on disposal and assets classiﬁed as held for sale 10 55
 Impairment – 457 –
 Other – net (14) 55
Interest paid (174) (143) (39)
Income tax paid (14) (9) (27)
Change in trade working capital Inventories (42) 149 (95)
 Trade receivables 
28 343 (48)
 Margin calls – 11 1
 Trade payables (18) (161) 170
Change in provisions and pension obligations (5) (20) (26)
Other working capital (10) 4( 3 3 )
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 88 368 173
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (355) (350) (199)
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired 21 (348) –
Proceeds from disposals net of cash (5) 4( 2 )
Equity contribution and loan to joint ventures (37) (34) (21)
Other investing activities 11 66
Net cash ﬂows used in investing activities (365) (722) (216)
Net proceeds from issuance of Senior Notes 375 –1 , 1 5 3
Repayment of Senior Notes/term loan (148) –( 3 3 1 )
(Repayments)/proceeds from revolving Credit Facility and other loans (69) (211) 13
Payment of deferred ﬁnancing costs and exit costs (19) (2) (27)
Withholding tax reimbursed – –2 0
Transactions with non-controlling interests (2) 3( 2 )
Other ﬁnancing activities 8 45 (34)
Net cash ﬂows from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities 145 (165) 792
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (132) (519) 749
Cash and cash equivalents – beginning of period 472 991 236
Cash and cash equivalents classiﬁed as held for sale – 
beginning of period 4 ––
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 3 46
Cash and cash equivalents – end of period 347 476 991
Less: cash and cash equivalents classiﬁed as held for sale – (4) –
Cash and cash equivalents as reported  
in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 347 472 99149 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusShare information
Average number of daily shares traded in 2016
 0.9 million 
shares10
8
6
4
2 April 16
2016May 16
2016June 15
2016July 15
2016Aug 15
2016Sept 16
2016Oct 16
2016Nov 15
2016Dec 15
2016Jan 15
2017Feb 15
2017Mar 15
2017April 15
2017Share price evolution in US$  (from April 16, 2016)
Shareholding structure  
(as of December 31, 2016)
1
2
1 Bpifrance 
12.2%
2 Free ﬂoat 
87.8%50 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Sustainability performance
In this section (pages 51–60), we provide our performance across  
the four pillars of Constellium’s sustainability strategy:
ProductsPeopleOperationsResponsible business
Products
 Pages 36–37  for more information on Products
Europe US54.5%
49.2%48.4%
44.3% 45.1% 45.0%48.5%
45.3%48.2%50.9% 49.7%54.1% 54.2%54.9% 56.7%54.5%
49.4%80
70
60
5040
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2007 2006 200843.0%
45.0% 46.0%48.0% 48.0%52.0%58.0%75% target for 2015
* This is the most recent data available for Europe. Figures for this data take a long time to process and the aggregate 2014 dat a is not yet available. Initial ﬁgures from large countries
indicate a continued increase in recycling rates for 2014. The beverage can recycling rate has seen a tremendous improvement fr om 43% (in 2000) to 71.3% (in 2013).2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014 2016 201561.8%63.1%64.0%66.7%68.3%69.5%
71.3%Aluminium beverage can recycling rates
People
 Pages 38–40  for more information on People
Recordable Case Rate*
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 201613.3
10.8
8.6
7.2
5.13.8 3.5 3.22.6 2.7 2.7 2.8510152025
24.5
13.3
Legacy Constellium11.510.7
8.47.26.2 6.36.97.8 7.89.2
7.3
2.93.33.726.0
19.018.517.518.5
15.014.0 14.0 13.516.0
10.0
Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green and ChangchunEuropean Aluminium US Bureau of Labor Statistics Aluminium
* Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries or med ical treatments per one million hours worked. 
Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in these statistics since 2008. Before that only extended co ntractors such as canteen and security staff 
were included.51 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusSustainability performance (continued)
People (continued)
GRI G4–10: Total workforce
ApprenticeInactive 
restructuringInactive 
without pay Permanent Fixed-termTemporary 
(agency, 
excluding 
contractors)
All Constellium
Number of employees with speciﬁc employment typeM a l e 2 5 25 4 3–––
F e m a l e 3 81 1 5–––
Number of employees  
per employment contractM a l e ––– 9 , 1 1 6 4 3 5
837
F e m a l e ––– 1 , 0 7 5 7 5
Number of employees  
working full/part-timeFull-time 290 6 51 9,980 507
837
P a r t - t i m e 007 2 1 13
Total 11,892
Total permanent and ﬁxed terms 11,055
Europe
Number of employees with 
speciﬁc employment typeM a l e 2 5 25 1 7–––
F e m a l e 3 81 1 2–––
Number of employees  
per employment contractM a l e ––– 6 , 7 5 1 2 4 5
800
F e m a l e ––– 7 6 3 3 7
Number of employees  
working full/part-timeFull-time 290 6 22 7,303 279
800
P a r t - t i m e 007 2 1 13
Total permanent and ﬁxed terms 8,121
Asia
Number of employees with 
speciﬁc employment typeM a l e ––––––
F e m a l e ––––––
Number of employees  
per employment contractM a l e ––– 1 1 1 9 0
–
F e m a l e ––– 1 2 3 8
Number of employees  
working full/part-timeF u l l - t i m e ––– 2 3 2 2 8–
P a r t - t i m e ––––––
Total permanent and ﬁxed terms 251
North America
Number of employees with 
speciﬁc employment typeM a l e –– 2 6–––
F e m a l e ––3–––
Number of employees  
per employment contractM a l e ––– 2 , 3 5 4–
37
F e m a l e ––– 3 0 0–
Number of employees  
working full/part-timeFull-time – – 29 2,654 – 37
P a r t - t i m e ––––––
Total permanent and ﬁxed terms 2,683
 Pages 38–40  for more information on People52 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016GRI G4–LA1: Employee turnover
Apprentices and temporary ﬁxed-term contract employees have been excluded, for accuracy in turnover rate calculation
Under  
26Between  
26 and 45Between  
46 and 55Above  
56 Total
E u r o p e         
Number of new employees hired in 2016 Male 251 302 53 7 613
F e m a l e 1 0 0 5 393 165
Number of employees who left the  
Company in 2016Male 155 162 84 201 602
Female 65 47 14 19 145
Number of employees on  
December 31, 2016Male 296 3,073 2,354 1,295 7,018
Female 43 403 235 132 813
Turnover rate Male 52.4% 5.3% 3.6% 15.5% 8.6%
Female 151.2% 11.7% 6.0% 14.4% 17.8%
North America
Number of new employees hired in 2016 Male 21 65 15 8 109
F e m a l e 4 1 432 23
Number of employees who left the  
Company in 2016Male 15 57 33 44 149
F e m a l e 3 1 199 32
Number of employees on  
December 31, 2016Male 82 896 791 611 2,380
Female 16 132 96 59 303
Turnover rate Male 18.3% 6.4% 4.1% 7 .2% 6.3%
Female 18.6% 8.3% 9.4% 15.3% 10.6%
Asia
Number of new employees hired in 2016 Male 42 64 9 0 115
F e m a l e 8 2 130 32
Number of employees who left the  
Company in 2016M a l e 3 4 2 820 64
F e m a l e 4 1 540 23
Number of employees on  
December 31, 2016Male 40 149 10 2 201
F e m a l e 5 3 960 50
Turnover rate Male 85.0% 18.8% 20.0% 0.0% 31.8%
Female 80.0% 38.5% 66.7% 0.0% 46.0%People53 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusSustainability performance (continued)
Operations
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions kt CO 2e 
Scope 2 Scope 1 (Scope 1+2)752
759
434
456
1,185
1,215
Figures have been rounded to the nearest kt CO 2e.1,600
1,200
800
400
2015 2016
Water consumption 106 m3
Water from public net Surface water Groundwater Total water
0.3
0.4
8.9
7.1
21.4
22.2
29.6
29.730
20
10
2015 2016
Production waste Metric tons  
Recycling Incineration Landﬁll Total tons/year 85,451
88,266
6,850
6,956
27,928
34,223
120,229
129,445160,000
120,000
80,000
40,000
2015 2016
899.7
1,059.4
617.4
624.7
283.7
261.5
1,111.0
1,225.2Air emissions  Metric tons  
NOx Particulate materials SO 2 VOC1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
2015 2016
 Pages 41–42  for more information on Operations54 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Operations
Responsible business2015 2016
Indirect energy consumption (TJ)*
Electricity TJ 5,482 5,847
Direct energy sources*
Anthracite 500 522
Liqueﬁed Petroleum Gas (LPG) 15 15
Natural gas 13,243 13,224
Diesel 119 119
Heavy fuel 159 152
Total 14,036 14,032
Total Direct + Indirect 19,222 19,569
* As we locally produce part of our energy, total energy consumption does not exactly match the sum of direct and indirect ener gy consumption.
From energy consumption to energy efﬁciency
Raw energy consumption per ton is not necessarily the most relevant indicator of energy efﬁciency, because we need to take 
into account the effect of different product mixes. For instance, the manufacture of automotive sheet requires signiﬁcantly mor e 
energy during rolling and ﬁnishing operations than beverage can body sheet. Therefore, increasing the share of one product over  
another will affect the overall energy per ton, independently of any other change. For this reason, we correct our energy efﬁci ency 
indicator to avoid any bias.
We have identiﬁed the relative energy consumption per ton of different product lines and use this to transpose raw energy per 
ton data into an energy efﬁciency index. This index therefore reﬂects the intrinsic manufacturing performance of our operations , 
regardless of any changes in our product mix.
At the same time, we also rely on Life Cycle Assessments  to make sure that we manufacture environmentally sound products. 
We are particularly keen to ensure that products requiring greater energy during manufacture deliver greater energy savings during their lifetime.
Code of Conduct training
2013 20149741,1361,298 1,301
1,144
9351,118 1,116
2015 201696.0%
Achieved99.8%
Achieved99.3%
Achieved99.8%
Achieved
1,600
1,200
800
400
Number of people targeted Number of people achieved
 Pages 43–44  for more information on Responsible business55 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusGRI content index
GRI G4 disclosure
We have achieved full disclosure against the general standard disclosures and speciﬁc standard disclosures listed below, and reported against the mining and mineral sector guidelines  (which are marked with an *).
General standard disclosures
DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
Strategy and analysis
G4-1 Statement from the most senior  
decision-maker of the organizationChief Executive Ofﬁcer’s insights 02-03
Organizational proﬁle
G4-3 Name of the organization Constellium N.V. (Constellium)
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Innovation, Business units perspective
Our main brands are: Airware®, Sealium, Alumold®, Unidal, HerkalHK34, 
Xtral 728, Diamal R, Diamal S, Alplan, Certal, Fortal, Alcast, Fibral, Surfalex®, 
Formalex®, Strongalex®, Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, 
Longlineﬁnish®, Securalex®, HSA6™, Modalex™, Butlerﬁnish®, Staybright™, 
Keikor®, Aeral™, Dokima®, Kool X™, Plan, Ox and Gripster18-25
G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Amsterdam, The Netherlands Back cover
G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Our network worldwide 10
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the highest ethical 
standards and best practices, to be responsive to our shareholders and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide Code of Conduct. We are listed on NYSE and on Euronext under the ticker symbol ‘CSTM’. Shareholders as of December 31, 2016 – free ﬂoat: 87.8%; Bpifrance: 12.2%
G4-8 Markets served Three core business units
Business unit perspectivesBusiness and sustainability highlights of the year11
20-25
06-07, 34-35
G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Key ﬁgures
Our network worldwideFor capitalization data, see our Annual Report 2016, section F-5  
http://www.constellium.com/content/download/8887/128529/version/1/ﬁle/2016+Dutch+Annual+Report.pdf
For quantity of product: see our Annual Report 2016 on page 0804
10
G4-10 Workforce characteristic Sustainability performance 52-53
G4-11 Employees covered by collective 
bargaining agreementsA vast majority of non-US employees and approximately 50% of  
US employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements
G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium 08-09
G4-13 Changes in organization’s size,  
structure, ownership or its supply chainStart of operation of a new facility operated by our joint venture with 
UACJ Corporation in Bowling Green, Kentucky, USA (Sept. 2016)
G4-14 Precautionary principle Our sustainability targets 
See Constellium Code of Conduct on page 09http://www.constellium.com/content/download/2640/58091/version/5/ﬁle/
D16196-Code-of-Conduct-UK-US-interactif.pdf41-42, 45
G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or 
initiatives to which the organization subscribesBuild a standard for aluminium
Memberships43 
61
G4-16 Membership of associations or organizations Build a standard for aluminium
Memberships43
6156 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016General standard disclosures
DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
Organizational proﬁle (continued)
G4-17 Entities included in the organization reports All entities owned by Constellium and all operating joint ventures during 
reporting year 2016
Our network worldwide 10
G4-18 Reporting principles for deﬁning report content About this report IFC
Identiﬁed material aspects and boundaries
G4-19 Process for deﬁning content  
and aspect boundariesSustainability in focus 
During 2014, we undertook a materiality assessment to identify the issues that 
matter most to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are aligned with this vision
See pages 36-39 of our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report for 
more, available at www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/
version/2/ﬁle/Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf31-33
G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Our sustainability targets 32-33, 36-45
G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Our sustainability targets 32-33, 36-45
G4-22 Restatements of information provided  
in earlier reportsOur waste production data had to be corrected  
See ‘Greater focus and better management’ on page 4141
G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous  
reporting periods in scope and aspect boundariesAbout this report IFC
Stakeholder engagement
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged  
by the organizationBuild a standard for aluminium
Ensure sustainable purchasingStrengthen our communitiesMemberships43
44
40
61
G4-25 Identiﬁcation and selection  
of stakeholders to engageBuild a standard for aluminium
See also our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at 
www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/  
on pages 30 and 39-4143
G4-26 Organization’s approach to 
stakeholder engagementBuild a standard for aluminium
Strengthen our communitiesSee also our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at 
www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/version/2/ﬁle/Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf  on page 3043
40
G4-27 Key topics collected through 
stakeholder engagementOur sustainability targets: overview
Our targets were deﬁned to address key topics emerging from our materiality 
assessment
See also our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at 
www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/version/2/ﬁle/ Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf  on page 3032-33
Report proﬁle
G4-28 Reporting period About this report IFC
G4-29 Date of the last report Issued in 2016. Available on our website’s sustainability section at 
http://www.constellium.com/content/download/8339/123901/version/1/ﬁle/
Business+and+sustainability+performance+report+2015.pdf 
G4-30 Reporting cycle About this report IFC
G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report IFC
G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI G4 disclosure index 56-60
G4-33 External assurance About this report IFC57 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusGeneral standard disclosures (continued)
DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
Governance
G4-34 Governance structure Governance in focus 13-16
Ethics and integrity
G4-56 Organization’s values, principles,  
standards and norms of behaviorGovernance in focus
Our sustainability targets: responsible business13-16
43-44
Speciﬁc standard disclosures
Category: economic
Increase economic performance  
Material aspect: economic performance
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s insights
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s insights02-03
05
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Key ﬁgures
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s insights04
05
Increase economic performance
G4-EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities 
for the organization’s activities due to climate changeDue to the uncertainty of the effects of climate change it is difﬁcult to quantify its impact. Possible scenarios that could create ﬁnancial risks for our business include availability of water, additional regulation to mitigate climate change, serious weather events causing damage to 
operations and supply chain, and climate warming/cooling trends in different regions positively 
or negatively affecting the sales of ﬁnished products in particular beverage cans. As a participant since 2013 in the European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS), changes to this system and a higher price of carbon could have an impact
There are, however, opportunities related to climate change and associated legislative changes. 
New technology and products which are lightweight and recyclable and are being used to lower 
fuel emissions in vehicles present an opportunity for aluminium, including: increased sales and 
opening of new markets as well as increasing aluminium share in existing markets, promotion of aluminium for new markets, providing innovative solution for customer needs, R&T investment, and expansion of manufacturing facilities. Opportunities from the EU ETS include being able to trade excess emissions certiﬁcates, which would provide an additional income, and no costs except those to reduce emissions to the required level to have excess certiﬁcates
Category: environmental
Increase recycling activities  
Material aspect: materials*
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium
Increase beverage can recyclingSee also our recycling brochure: 
http://www.constellium.com/content/download/7813/120379/version/3/ﬁle/Constellium+-+recycling+brochure+-+october+2015.pdf08-09
36
G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that  
are recycled input materialsWe do not consider recycled content as a relevant metrics for environmental 
performance. For more detail, see our recycling brochure, available online at the following address: http://www.constellium.com/content/download/7813/120379/version/3/ﬁle/Constellium+-+recycling+brochure+-+october+2015.pdf
Improve energy efﬁciency of operations 
Material aspect: energy
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Improve energy efﬁciency 42
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability performance 55
G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Deﬁne a GHG emissions target
The use of our products often saves energy through mass saving, especially 
in transportation, and recycling. See this report on pages 06-09 and 34-35 for illustration45GRI content index (continued)58 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Speciﬁc standard disclosures
Category: environmental (continued)
G4-EN5 Energy intensity Improve energy efﬁciency  
At Constellium, ‘energy efﬁciency’ is the way we deﬁne ‘energy intensity’42
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Improve energy efﬁciency 42
G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements  
of products and servicesImprove energy efﬁciency 42
Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
Material aspect: emissions
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Deﬁne a GHG emissions target
Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium (4. Product use)45
09
G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Deﬁne a GHG emissions target 45
G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Deﬁne a GHG emissions target 45
G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Deﬁne a GHG emissions target 45
G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded in the reporting year
G4-EN21 NO X, SO 2, and other signiﬁcant air emissions Sustainability performance 54
Reduce waste from operations
Prevent pollution from operations 
Material aspect: efﬂuents and waste
G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Reduce production waste sent to landﬁll 41
G4-EN22 Water discharge Sustainability performance 54
G4-EN23 Waste disposal Reduce production waste sent to landﬁll
Sustainability performance41
54
G4-EN24 Signiﬁcant spills No major spills recorded in the reporting year
Develop products with environmental beneﬁts 
Material aspect: products and services
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Creating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminium 08-09
G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products 
and servicesSee ‘Deﬁne a GHG emissions target’ for more information on how we manage 
the Life Cycle Assessment of our products 
See also our website:  
http://www.constellium.com/sustainability/life-cycle-of-aluminium45
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Build a standard for aluminium
Ensure sustainable purchasing43
44
G4-EN29 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total 
number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulationsNone recorded in the reporting year
Engage suppliers in sustainability performance 
Material aspect: supplier sustainability
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ensure sustainable purchasing 44
G4-EN32 Suppliers screened using environmental criteria Ensure sustainable purchasing 44
Category: social
Sub-category: labor practices and decent work
Improve employee satisfaction 
Material aspect: employment
G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engage our people 39
G4-LA1 Number and rates of new employee hires and 
employee turnoverSustainability performance 53
G4-LA2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or  part-time employeesPart-time workers have pro-rata beneﬁts of full-time employees; temporary 
workers are not eligible for the same beneﬁts. Some selected beneﬁts related to health insurance are granted depending on seniority59 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
Performance in focus Overview Governance in focus Business in focus Sustainability in focusSpeciﬁc standard disclosures (continued)
Material aspect: labor/management relations
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our sustainability targets: people 38-39
G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding  
operational changesThe minimum notice period changes depending on the country of operation and is based 
on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question
G4-MM4* Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding 
one week’s durationNone recorded in the reporting year
DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
Ensure safety at work
Reduce psycho-social risksReduce use of harmful substances  
Material aspect: safety
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach EHS – Our top priority 27
G4-LA5 Workforce represented in health and 
safety committees100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and safety committees
G4-LA6* Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, 
absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalitiesEHS – Our top priority 
Further improve our safety record27
38
G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal 
agreements with trade unionsEHS – Our top priority 
Further improve our safety record Health and safety topics are covered not only in agreements with trade unions 
but also in our procedures and directives 27
38
Develop training and empowerment 
Material aspect: training and education
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Explanations from pages 46-48 of our 2015 report remain valid. 
http://www.constellium.com/content/download/8339/123901/version/1/ﬁle/Business+and+sustainability+performance+report+2015.pdf
G4-LA11 Employees receiving regular performance and 
career development reviewsOur professional grade employees receive annual performance and career 
development through the new global HR platform, Success Factors. This has been extended to some supervisory levels in France
All other employees receive an annual performance review but this is done on  
a site-by-site basis and tracked centrally for all managers
Sub-category: human rights
Promote and enforce ethical business practices 
Material aspect: non-discrimination
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our sustainability targets: responsible business 43-44
G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenNo discrimination incidents or non-compliances in this respect have been reported 
to the Group level through the formal compliance process in the course of the year. In case of incidents on site level or allegations of discrimination on grounds of race, age, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, they have been reviewed and dealt with in line with the applicable legal and management review processes. Where appropriate, the necessary corrective actions have been deﬁned and put in place by the local management in charge
Material aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engage our people 39 
G4-HR4 Risks to the right to exercise freedom  
of association and collective bargainingNone identiﬁed
Sub-category: product responsibility
Innovation
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Innovation
Highlights of the yearCreating value throughout the life-cycle of aluminiumSustainability highlights 18-19
06-07
08-09
34-35
Customer satisfaction
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Increase customer satisfaction 37GRI content index (continued)60 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016Memberships
This report contains statements  
that relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Forward-looking statements include 
those statements containing such words as ‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘scheduled’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘will’,  or other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statementsMembership Has positions in governanceParticipates in  
projects and  
committees
Aluminum Association (AA) Member Yes
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member of Standards Committee,  
Catherine AthènesYes
ARPAL, Spain Member No
Aluminium France President,  
Béatrice CharonYes
Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) Member No
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No
Cercle de l’Industrie Member No
European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member YesEuropean Aluminium Member of the Executive Committee,  
Arnaud JouronYes
France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) President,  
Raphaël TheveninYes
Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of the Board,  
Dieter HöllYes
Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques et Spatiales (GIFAS) Member No
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) No No
International Aluminium Institute (IAI) No Yes
La Boîte Boisson (BCME) Member Yes
Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) Member No
Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes, 
emballages et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM)Member Yes
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No
Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of the Board,  
Dieter HöllYes61 Constellium  
Business  and sustainability  performance report 2016
All statements that reﬂect Constellium’s 
expectations, assumptions or projections about the future other  than statements of historical fact  are forward-looking statements. 
The forward-looking statements 
contained in this report are subject  to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other  factors and are not guarantees of future performance. These risks and uncertainties include,  
but are not limited to, those set forth  under the heading ‘Risk Factors’  in our Annual Report on Form 20-F,  and described from time to time in  subsequent reports, ﬁled with the US  Securities and Exchange Commission.
Constellium disclaims any obligation  
to update publicly any forward-looking  
statements, whether in response to new  
information, future events or otherwise,  except as required by applicable law.Full contents are listed 
under this flap.
About this report
Reporting period Financial year 2016  
(January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016)
Reporting cycle Annual
Date of publication June 2017
Report scope  T
he data or financials relate to Constellium 
worldwide falling within the scope of 
consolidation at December 31, 2016. 
Report content The content of this report is based on our business data and the results of our dialog  
with stakeholders, the Global Reporting Initiative G4 requirements and other sustainability ratings and rankings.
Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidelines – Core 
Assurance The report is in compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines and maintains code of reporting  
as advised by GRI. It is not externally assured.
Contact For further information please contact:  
communications@constellium.com or  
sustainability@constellium.com
www.constellium.comwww.constellium.com
This report was released in June  2017
Coordination: 
Corporate Communications Department  and Sustainability Council.
Design and production: 
Radley Yeldar | www.ry.com
Print: 
Printed by Geoff Neal on FSC
® certiﬁed paper.
Geoff Neal Group is a UKAS certiﬁed company 
and its Environmental Management System is certiﬁed ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 
95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. 
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk 100; 
process chlorine free (PCF) paper containing 100% recycled ﬁbre approved by the FSC
®.