2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
ELEVATING LIFE
RESPONSIBLY
EVERY DAYCOMPANY  OVERVIEW
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B), a Fortune 500® company, is a leading international 
producer and marketer of beer, wine, and spirits with operations in the U.S., Mexico, New Zealand, 
Italy, and Canada. Constellation is the No. 3 beer company in the U.S., with high-end, iconic imported 
brands such as Corona Extra, Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Modelo Negra, and Pacifico.  
The company’s beer portfolio also includes Ballast Point, one of the most awarded craft brewers 
in the U.S. In addition, Constellation is the world leader in premium wine, selling great brands that 
people love, including Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Kim Crawford, Meiomi, Mark West, Franciscan 
Estate, Ruffino, and The Prisoner. The company’s premium spirits brands include SVEDKA Vodka, 
Casa Noble Tequila, and High West Whiskey.
Based in Victor, N.Y., the company believes that industry leadership involves a commitment to brand 
building, our trade partners, the environment, our investors, and to consumers around the world 
who choose our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. Founded in 1945, 
Constellation has grown to become a significant player in the beverage alcohol industry with more 
than 100 brands in its portfolio, about 40 facilities, and approximately 9,000 talented employees.  
We express our company vision: to elevate life with every glass raised. 100+ 
brands in our  portfolioAbout 
40 
facilities
Approximately
9,000
talented employees
$7 .3 billion  
FY17 Net  Sales
2
TO OUR  STAKEHOLDERS,
I am proud to say that in our 2017 ﬁ  scal year we continued to make great progress in all of our corporate social responsibility focus areas. 
From an environmental standpoint, our production facilities around the world have remained focused on reducing our impact on the land. 
In addition to our many carbon, solar, and waste initiatives, we continue to focus on improving our efﬁ  ciency when it comes to our most 
important resource, water. In fact, our largest facility by production volume, our brewery in Nava, Mexico, is one of the most water-efﬁ  cient 
breweries in the world, and our team there continues to ﬁ  nd new ways to improve. 
From a giving back perspective, our employees joined together for a record-breaking year for two of our cornerstone global initiatives. 
Year-over-year, we increased our employee volunteer participation in our Nourishing Neighbors program by 42%, and increased funds 
donated through our Employee Match Program by 83%. Momentum for these programs, and our many local and regional efforts, continues 
to grow.
We also strengthened our commitment to alcohol responsibility. We built upon existing programs and partnerships and created new ones, 
like our ﬁ  rst global employee alcohol responsibility training, to continue to ensure our company, and our industry, promotes responsible 
drinking practices and reduces underage drinking and drunk driving. 
Above all, last year reinforced my admiration for our employees. They all are committed to doing business the right way, and continue 
to innovate when it comes to enhancing lives in the communities we call home. We all believe that our shared commitment to operating 
responsibly will help us remain a successful business, and a good neighbor, for the long term.
As we continue to grow as a total alcohol beverage category leader, we will remain committed to growing responsibly. Our business is 
the strongest it has been in our 70-year history, as is our commitment to elevating life responsibly every day.
Sincerely,
Rob Sands
President and Chief Executive Ofﬁ  cerA letter  FROM OUR CEO
3
2017 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportINTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY AWARD  F ranciscan Estate won our 
third-annual award for its water stewardship, energy efficiency, and 
environmental team initiatives. This award recognizes our facilities’ 
accomplishments and encourages employee involvement in making 
progress towards meeting our overall sustainability goals.
BEVERAGE INDUSTRY ENVIRONMENTAL ROUNDTABLE (BIER)
  
W
e are a proud member of BIER, a coalition of leading global 
beverage companies working to advance environmental 
sustainability. We’re also signatories of BIER’s Joint Commitment 
on Climate Change, which states that as a sector we will continue  
to reduce energy consumption, help fulfill national commitments  
on greenhouse gas (GHG) reductions, and develop tools and know-
how to best evaluate and manage water risk.
TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURE
 W
e emphasize transparency 
and have made our annual submission to the CDP (formerly the 
Carbon Disclosure Project) public since 2010. In 2016, we received  
a score of B for both climate change and water responses. A COLLABORATIVE APPROACH  
AT RUFFINO
 R
uffino Estate in Italy works with 
suppliers to encourage sustainable practices 
all along the supply chain. All agreements 
require adherence to Ruffino’s dedication to preserve and enhance the environment. Half 
of their main suppliers of glass, caps, cork, labels, and cardboard 
have obtained ISO14001 or FSC certifications. The winery  
also collaborates with the University of Milan’s Department of 
Agricultural and Environmental Science to develop precision 
farming methods to improve crop yields, reduce chemical pollution, 
and provide better information for management decisions.
VINEYARD TEAM PARTNERS ON ENVIRONMENTAL STUDY
  
O
ur RH Phillips Vineyard Operations team worked with a University 
of California at Davis researcher to develop better ways to naturally 
control pests in our vineyards.
ENVIRONMENTAL VOLUNTEERING  E
mployees from our Mexico 
City office proudly participated in a reforestation volunteer day in 
the Sierra de Guadalupe mountains.sustainability
At our core, we’re an agricultural company. Land and other natural resources are essential to making our  
wine, beer, and spirits. We recognize that it’s our responsibility to reduce our impact on the environment,  
not only because it’s the right thing to do, but because the long-term success of our company depends on it.
CARBON FOOTPRINT
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions*
Carbon Intensity Metric Scope 1 and 2 (Metric Tonnes C0 2e/Million Liters of Product Sold)
METRIC  
TONNES  
C0 2ELITERS  
PRODUCT  
SOLDYEAR
230,842 1,659M FY16◊
207,354 1,536M FY15
194,518†1,423M†FY14
122,018 694M FY13
114,063 690M FY12
102,275 648M FY11
186,926 1,075M FY10 174158165176137135139
GHG  REDUCTIONS  
IN MEXICO
 O
ur brewery in 
Nava, Mexico switched its 
boilers from oil to natural 
gas, reducing nitrous oxide 
emissions by 83% . The 
brewery’s zero-emission 
warehouse forklifts  save 
more than 100,000 liters of 
diesel, equivalent to 263 tons of CO
2 emissions, per day.
*  I n preparing data for this report, we made non-material updates to prior year data to ensure we are reporting the most current and 
accurate data available. 
◊
  O
ur global greenhouse gas emissions data collection is completed in June each year, making FY16 our latest available data.
†
  S
ignificant increase in Liters of Product Sold and Metric Tonnes CO 2e due to FY14 acquisition of Nava Brewery.4
WATER STEWARDSHIP AT ROBERT MONDAVI WINERY 
In fi  scal year 2016, the winery’s Operations team installed a 
glycol heat exchanger, completed a landscape irrigation project, 
and implemented a recovery and reuse line, saving close to 
50% of the water used to wash their 35,000 barrels each year.
850,000
gallons of water saved per year, thanks 
to our new glycol heat exchanger140,000
fewer gallons of city water 
withdrawals per monthWATER
3.19BEER
Industry Average:
3.53*
Water W
ithdrawals: 5,340,000,000L • Beer Produced: 1,673,000,000L22.48SPIRITS
Industry Average:
39.04*
Water W
ithdrawals: 318,000,000L◊ • Spirits Produced: 14,143,045L4.34WINE
Industry Average:
2.78*
Water W
ithdrawals: 2,235,000,000L† • Wine Produced: 515,465,955L
*Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable’s 2016 Water and Energy Use Benchmarking Study  
†Only winery water withdrawals used; no vineyard irrigation water data included  ◊Only represents spirits facilities under our operational control
Water Intensity Reductions | FY17 vs. FY16
17%
Dunnewood	Winery18%
Turner	Road	Vintners30%
Wild	Horse	Winery11%
Woodbridge	Winery5%
Nava	BreweryFY17 Water IntensityRIVER RESTORATION  PROJECT 
Our Napa Valley Vineyard Operations 
team collaborated with the EPA 
and other partners to design and 
implement a Napa River restoration 
project which benefi  ts wildlife and 
promotes biodiversity, increases 
water quality within the restoration 
zone, and improves ﬂ  ood control.
CONNECT THE DROPS CAMPAIGN 
We joined Ceres’ Connect the Drops 
campaign to show our commitment 
to working with other California 
companies on responsible water use.
5
2017	Corporate	Social	Responsibility	Report107%
of Ravenswood’s FY17 total 
energy needs were  generated  
by on-site solarSOLAR
WASTE 150/500
TOP GREEN COMPANIES IN THE U.S.  Ne wsweek  ranks the world’s 
largest companies on environmental impact and sustainability.  
In 2016, we ranked 150 of 500 in the U.S., up from 173 in 2015.
“ It’ s important to work for a company that truly 
cares about more than just the bottom line. ”
 T om Kane
	Chief
	
Human
	
Resources
	
Officer5.5M+
kWh of Solar Energy 
Generated in FY17
91%
Total FY16 Diversion Rate for 
Production Facilities Globally*
245,583
metric tons of landfill 
material  generated223,299
metric tons of material recycled, 
composted, or  divertedSOLAR FOOTPRINT  O ur solar 
footprint spans four of our 
facilities in California—  
Clos du Bois Winery (pictured), 
Estancia Winery, Gonzales 
Winery, and Ravenswood  Winery.
CERTIFICATIONS
Many of our individual 
production facilities 
hold a wide range 
of certifications.  
Here are just a few:
*  O ur waste emissions data collection is completed in June each year, 
making FY16 our latest available data.
6
giving  BACK
We’re committed to giving back to the communities we call home. We’re proud of our employees’ passion 
and honored to support them as they give back to the causes we all care about most. Our three main global initiatives—Nourishing Neighbors, Community Giving, and our Employee Match Program—are complemented by the many activities our employees champion at the local, regional, and brand level.
NOURISHING  NEIGHBORS   
Since 2014 this program has uniﬁed employees worldwide to 
help fight hunger in their communities . During our annual week 
of giving back, employees have paid time off to volunteer at 
local food banks. Employees and the company also donate food 
and money. Our global employee ambassadors help coordinate 
the initiative at the local level, ensuring the needs of each 
community are met.1,000+
employees  volunteered  
(+42% over prior  year)
$100,000+
in employee and company donations to Blessings in a Backpack and 
other food banks in our communities providing vital food assistance to 
those in need80,000+
pounds of food collected at 
company  locations
COMMUNITY  GIVING   
Our Giving Back team includes employees worldwide who 
truly understand the needs of their communities. They help  
us maximize our efforts, which are focused in arts and 
culture, health care, and education.EMPLOYEE  MATCH   
This program doubles the impact employees have on the causes 
that matter most to them. In FY17, the program donated nearly $780,000 to 350 not-for-profits, +83% from FY16, and more than tripled participation. It’s donated more than $2.5 million  
since  2011.
nearly
$780,000
in donations from  employees  
and Constellation  Brands,  
+83% from prior year
$2.5M
donated by the program since 2011 
to the causes our employees care most  aboutEmployee Match Day resulted in a one-day employee donation total  of
$346,902
+113% from prior year$5M*
in FY17 donations through 
our corporate community 
giving  program100,000+
bottles of wine, beer, and spirits 
donated to charitable events in  FY17
2,500
not-for-profit organizations 
supported worldwide in  FY17* Total includes monetary, in-kind, and 
pro-bono donations made through our 
corporate community giving program, 
and not donations made by our 
divisions or brands.
7
2017 Corporate Social Responsibility  ReportTHE V FOUNDATION FOR 
CANCER  RESEARCH
  
S
upported by record 
participation from our Gold 
Network distributors, retailers, 
and consumers, last year we 
raised $1.23 million for The  
V Foundation , a leading cancer 
research funding organization 
in the U.S. Since 2010, our beer 
division has raised more than 
$4 million for research and 
$10 million overall for the fight 
against cancer. [A]
THE UNITED WAY
 E
mployees 
across the U.S. participated in 
the 2016 United Way campaign, 
donating $123,668.EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS 
IN COAHUILA
 W
e donated 
$180,000  to help the fire 
department in Coahuila, Mexico, 
purchase equipment to support 
the city and surrounding towns.
SUPPORTING MISSION-
ORIENTED ENTREPRENEURS   
A 
$400,000 donation  from 
Constellation Brands and CEO 
Rob Sands will fund a two-
year pilot at Pace University’s 
Food and Beverage Law Clinic, 
providing legal services to 
farmers, community and 
grassroots groups, and 
mission-oriented food and 
beverage entrepreneurs.SERVICE IN CHICAGO   
M
ore than 250 employees 
volunteered at an elementary 
school in Chicago during 
our seventh-annual summer 
service event, in partnership 
with Chicago Cares, Chicago’s 
leading connector of people, 
communities, and causes 
through volunteerism. [B]
LOUISIANA FLOOD  RELIEF   
W
e donated $25,000  to a relief 
fund set up by Republic National 
Distributing Company (RNDC), 
which helped the families of 
RNDC  employees.CORONA CARES  W ith our Gold 
Network distributors in North 
Carolina, we raised more than $200,000  for the N.C. Cancer 
Hospital. Corona Cares has 
raised more than $1,000,000 in 
eight  years.
GIVING AT BALLAST 
POINT
 B
allast Point is 
committed to supporting its 
hometown, San Diego. During 
one week in 2016, employees 
packed 1,694 “backpack” meals  at a local food bank 
and raised $50,500  between 
employee donations and a 
special company match. [C]
BA
C
8
ITALIAN EARTHQUAKE 
SUPPORT Ruffi  no and 
its employees donated 
nearly $40,000 in food and 
money  to feed 300+ people 
for one month after last 
summer’s  earthquakes.
SKYRISE CHICAGO The 90+ 
Team Corona Light members 
were the top performers at 
SkyRise Chicago 2016, a charity 
race up the Willis Tower. They 
raised $200,000  via corporate 
sponsorship and individual 
fundraising, +11% over last year, for the Rehabilitation Institute 
of Chicago.TOUR DE CURE Eighty 
“Smooth Finishers” riders 
raised $42,000+ for the 
American Diabetes Association 
in California, Illinois, New York, 
San Antonio, and Washington.
WINE BRANDS MAKE A 
DIFFERENCE At this year’s 
Sonoma Wine Country 
Weekend, hosted by Sonoma 
County Vintners, special 
tastings and auction lots 
from SIMI, Ravenswood, and 
Clos du Bois, and a donation 
from Constellation Brands 
contributed to the record-
breaking charity auction total.$20 MILLION HEALTH CARE 
DONATION The Sands Family 
Foundation and Constellation Brands donated $20 million to 
Rochester Regional Health for 
construction of a new critical-care center. [D]
DYNAMO CAMP IN 
TUSCANY Since 2015, Ruffi  no 
and its employees have donated 
more than $43,000 to the fi  rst 
therapeutic recreation camp in 
Italy. The camp is free of charge 
and designed for children with 
serious illnesses undergoing 
therapy or post-hospitalization.DESARROLLO  INTEGRAL 
DE LA FAMILIA (DIF) 
More than 60 Nava Brewery 
employees supported DIF, 
a public institution in Mexico 
focused on helping families in 
extreme social and economic 
situations, by contributing to the 
cost of scholarships for young 
women. The brewery matched 
each  contribution.
D
“ Elevating life 
means being more 
compassionate 
to people in our 
community.”
 Joanna Pernick
	 Analyst,	Quality	Control
9
2017	Corporate	Social	Responsibility	ReportSAFE RIDES ON 
NEW YEAR’S EVE Our sales team helped revelers ring in the new year responsibly during the Chi-Town Rising New Year’s Eve celebration in Chicago.FOUNDATION FOR 
ADVANCING ALCOHOL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
(FAAR) We are a proud 
member of FAAR (responsibility.org), a 
leader in the fi  ght to 
eliminate drunk driving 
and underage drinking. 
Last year, FAAR launched 
the #SummerResponsibly 
campaign, encouraging 
responsible summer 
drinking  practices. 
We also support FAAR’s 
“No Excuses” campaign, 
aimed at curbing underage  drinking.
3,331
free transit vouchers 
circulated to  revelers
WE DON’T SERVE TEENS Each year we support the U.S. 
Federal Trade Commission’s We Don’t Serve Teens campaign. 
Our in-kind marketing donation included English- and Spanish-language billboards, digital bulletins, and radio spots.
60 MILLION
impressions generated (+13% over last  year) 
SOCIAL responsibility
As a total beverage alcohol leader, we believe we should produce, advertise, and sell our brands in a responsible 
manner. Our social responsibility efforts are focused in three areas: our own practices, community outreach, 
and advocating for our beliefs.
10NEW EMPLOYEE ALCOHOL TRAINING In FY17 we launched 
“Alcohol Responsibility: Our Shared Commitment, ”  our fi  rst global 
employee alcohol responsibility training. It gives all employees 
a common base of knowledge regarding alcohol and its effects, 
which helps us be more responsible when enjoying and selling 
the great brands we make. It also explains how we can support 
colleagues, family, and friends in the responsible, safe enjoyment 
of our products.
RESPONSIBLE ADVERTISING Compliance with our Global Code 
of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and 
Marketing is mandatory across all our brands and companies, 
and by others involved with the promotion of our brands. 
The code, which follows industry best practices, provides a 
fundamental framework for ensuring that our brands are 
marketed responsibly, and our messages are directed at 
drinking-age  consumers.
TEAM COALITION We are part of the Techniques for Effective 
Alcohol Management (TEAM) Coalition, an alliance that 
promotes responsible drinking and positive fan behavior 
at sports and entertainment facilities. In 2016, Corona 
Extra and TEAM collaborated to promote responsible 
drinking at Maná concerts, L.A. Rams games, and 
boxing events as part of the Responsibility Has Its 
Rewards  program.
RAISE YOUR ARMS AGAINST DRUNK DRIVING 
In April, we internally promoted TEAM’s Raise One 
Million Arms campaign. Hundreds of employees 
signed a pledge to never drive drunk.
SAFE RIDE HOME PROGRAM We are committed to 
the well-being and safety of our employees, and to 
promoting responsible drinking practices. Our Safe 
Ride Home program reimburses taxi or public transit 
fare for employees’ personal, non-company use.
SHARING BEST PRACTICES We work with 
counterparts in the industry to get feedback on 
our responsible drinking efforts from lawmakers. 
With the Beer Institute, we also invited members of 
the U.S. Congress to create responsible drinking 
messages for their home districts through a 
collaboration with the National Association 
of Broadcasters.
SOCIAL CAMPAIGN IN ITALY For the second year, 
Ruffi  no joined alcohol producers, retailers, and others 
for Conoscere l’alcol (Do You Know Alcohol?), a fi  ve-
week campaign reaching over three million people. 
It was part of a broader program promoting a healthy 
lifestyle, the program is endorsed by Italy’s Ministry 
of Health. 
ROCK ON RESPONSIBLY At the Constellation Brands-
Marvin Sands Performing Arts Center (CMAC), we host 
activities and promotions to encourage responsible drinking 
practices among concert-goers.“ We are committed 
to operating 
responsibly in 
all aspects of our 
business. ”
 Edgar Guillaumin
	VP,	External	Affairs
11
2017	Corporate	Social	Responsibility	ReportConstellation Brands, Inc. 
207 High Point Drive, Building 100
Victor, New York 14564 
1.888.724.2169
www.cbrands.com
Please enjoy our products responsibly. © 2017 Constellation Brands Inc., Victor, NYPrinted on ENVIRONMENT® premium 100% Post Consumer Recycled fi  ber from Neenah Paper, which is made with 100% Certifi  ed Renewable Energy, Green Seal™ 
certifi  ed (ensuring that mill processes, including packaging, are environmentally preferable), and processed without the use of chlorine or chlorine compounds. ABOUT THIS REPORT This report highlights many of the key initiatives of our Corporate Social Responsibility program during 
our 2017 fi  scal year (March 1, 2016 through February 28, 2017). It is intended to provide an overview of our commitment to our 
CSR program for our investors, customers, employees, and other stakeholder groups. 
More information on our CSR efforts can be found on our CSR website, www.constellationcsr.com, and on our corporate website, 
www.cbrands.com. More detailed information about the risks, management, and performance relating to our greenhouse gas emissions and water use is available to the public through our submission to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). 
More information on Constellation Brands, Inc. can be found on www.cbrands.com and in our fi  scal 2017 Annual Report.
