Altogether more sustainable2013
 SUSTAINABILITY
 PERFORMANCE
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   1 09/06/2014   14:57   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 2013Contents
1. INTRODU CTION
1. Altogether more sustainable | 2. Our approach to sustainability |  
3. Targets and performance | 4.  Interview with Pierre Vareille 
and Laurent Musy
8. PRODUCTS
9. A portfolio of sustainable products | 10. Recycling | 
14. Innovation | 17. Customer satisfaction
18. PEOPLE
19. Safety | 22.  Skill development | 
23. Motivation and engagement | 24. Ethical behavior | 
25. Community engagement
26. OPERATIONS
27. Energy | 30. Waste | 31.  Water and emissions to air 
32. GOVERNANCE
33. A culture of transparency
36. GRI INDEX
Global Reporting Initiative Disclosure Index
KEY PICTOGRAM
Through its Sustainability Roadmap, Constellium indentiﬁ  ed 12 main targets. 
You can ﬁ  nd them through this report thanks to this symbol.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   2 09/06/2014   14:57Altogether
more sustainable
WE ARE COMMITTED TO DEVELOPING, PRODUCING AND SELLING SUSTAINABLE 
PRODUCTS  THAT MEET OUR CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS NOW AND IN THE FUTURE.
 WE WILL 
1. Maximize recycling rates of our products, including after end of use life
2. Continuously innovate and offer lighter, safer and inﬁ  nitely recyclable solutions
WE ARE COMMITTED TO ENSURING OUR PEOPLE  ARE SAFE, SKILLED, MOTIVATED AND ENGAGED.
 WE WILL 
1. Protect the safety and health of our employees, contractors and visitors as a top priority
2. Strive to enhance employee engagement and development
WE ARE COMMITTED TO MINIMIZING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF ALL OUR OPERATIONS  
IN TERMS OF ENERGY, WASTE AND WATER.
 WE WILL 
1. Further develop recycling
2. Optimize the use of natural resources, especially energy
3. Prevent and minimize environmental impacts
WE ARE COMMITTED TO UNDERTAKING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF 
GOVERNANCE  OF OUR ACTIVITIES IN LINE WITH CONSTELLIUM’S VALUES.
 WE WILL 
1. Subscribe to the highest levels of transparency and accountability and commit 
to develop company and industry sustainability programs
2. Promote the adoption and implementation of sustainability policies 
by our suppliers and contractors
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   1 09/06/2014   14:57   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 20132
GRI: a reporting 
framework
Recognized internationally, 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) provides a voluntary framework for the drawing up of companies’ sustainability reports. In 2013, Constellium’s Sustainability Report 2012 (‘Altogether more sustainable’) received a check level A for its level of disclosure.ASI: an industry initiative
Constellium is a founding member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), which aims to produce a global standard of sustainability for the aluminium industry by the end of 2014. The standard will deﬁ  ne principles and performance 
criteria for the supply chain – from bauxite mining through to recycling – in terms of governance, environmental and social practices. The standard-setting group features 14 companies and 15 non-industry bodies with expertise in sustainability and governance.
EcoVadis: performance monitoring
A rating agency that specializes in sustainable development and ethics, EcoVadis offers a collaborative platform that allows companies to assess the environmental and social performance of their suppliers worldwide. In 2013, EcoVadis awarded Constellium the Silver Recognition Level rating for its sustainability performance.
UN Global Compact: 
key principles 
The world’s largest voluntary CSR initiative 
allows enlightened companies to become 
partners of the UN for a sustainable 
and inclusive global economy. As a signatory, 
Constellium undertakes to align its strategies 
with 10 universally accepted principles 
in the areas of human rights, labor, 
environment and anti-corruption.
CDP: a forum for sustainability
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) offers companies a forum for disclosing information and metrics regarding their sustainability. Constellium participated in the CDP for a second time in 2013 – disclosing its greenhouse gas emissions and actions against climate change, providing more detailed information than in its 2012 submission.
Constellium’s key objective is to improve the sustainability 
of its operations and of the whole industry, while being fully transparent about the progress it achieves. These activities involve working closely with the following international organizations. SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS 
Our approach 
to sustainability
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   2 09/06/2014   14:57   CONSTELLIUM3
TARGETS 
100% of key suppliers joining the UNGC by 201510% decrease in energy consumption per processed unit by 2015
Major European sites reaching ISO 50001 certiﬁ  cation by 2015
75% total landﬁ  ll reduction by 202075% beverage can recycling rate in Europe by 2015All major new innovation projects through LCA by 201510% of sales from innovative products by 2015
60% improvement in recordable cases by 2014
No serious injuries in 201550% improvement in employee contributions by 201475% participation rate in the employee survey in 20146-point improvement in the employee satisfaction rate in 2014OBJECTIVES 
SUBSCRIBING 
TO THE HIGHEST 
LEVELS OF 
TRANSPARENCY 
AND ENSURING 
A RESPONSIBLE 
SUPPLY CHAINGOVERNANCEMINIMIZING 
THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT OF ALL OUR 
OPERATIONS IN THE 
FOLLOWING KEY AREAS: 
ENERGY, WATER AND 
WASTEOPERATIONSDEVELOPING, 
PRODUCING AND 
SELLING SUSTAINABLE 
PRODUCTS: MEETING 
NEEDS AND REDUCING 
THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT OF OUR 
CUSTOMERS NOW AND 
IN THE FUTUREPRODUCTS
ENSURING OUR 
EMPLOYEES ARE SAFE, 
SKILLED AND 
MOTIVATED WITH 
ETHICAL BEHAVIORS 
AND REGULATORY 
COMPLIANCEPEOPLEPROGRESS 
NA
NA
NA No t available       Needs improvement       On trackTARGETS AND PERFORMANCE
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   3 09/06/2014   14:57   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 20134
 INTERVIEW 
The road
to a sustainable future
Constellium’s Chief Executive Officer Pierre Vareille and Laurent 
Musy, Chairman of the Constellium Sustainability Council, discuss the company’s sustainability agenda and performance over the past year, and the challenges it faces in the years ahead.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   4 09/06/2014   14:57   CONSTELLIUM5
How would you deﬁ  ne Constellium’s approach 
to sustainability?
Pierre Vareille:  S ustainability means a license to 
operate, at least in some markets, and is clearly 
growing in importance. Our portfolio of products 
helps sustainability worldwide particularly through 
lightweighting of cars and airplanes for instance, 
thereby reducing both energy consumption and CO 2 
emissions. In addition, all aluminium products can 
be recycled, whether it is after a useful life of a few 
weeks for a beverage can or after more than 20 years 
for an aircraft. When you combine the savings made 
during the use phase and at the time of recycling, you offer a solution to sustainability challenges. Yet sustainability doesn’t stop at CO
2 emissions as 
it encompasses many more topics that Constellium 
must address. These range from customer satis-
faction to community engagement and responsible 
purchasing. Having not only sustainable products but also sustainable activities is key for our core markets.
What were the key events of 2013 
f
or Constellium in terms of sustainability?
Laurent Musy:  C onstellium’s engagement goes 
beyond its products. Indeed, we have been witness-
ing a great deal of progress at our plants, thanks 
largely to the LEAN transformation. In terms of sus-
tainability KPIs, we continued to improve energy efﬁ ciency and we remain on course for ISO 50001 
certification at all our main European sites. The Constellium Sustainability Council is meeting on a 
regular basis, the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 
(ASI) is making good progress on a standard of gov-
ernance for the industry, and our reports to the Carbon Disclosure Project and Global Reporting Initiative both show improvements. Sales of inno-vative solutions like AIRWARE
® and Body-in-White 
products, which both have very positive life cycle impacts, are increasing at a spectacular rate.
However, we faced a major disappointment in 2013: 
safety. We experienced two fatalities (in Levice, Slovakia and Ravenswood, USA) and ﬁ  ve addition-
al serious injuries. The safety of our employees and 
contractors is our ﬁ  rst priority – and we failed last year. We are doing everything we can in 2014 to ensure that our safety record, which had seen a decade of annual improvement, returns to its previous level before improving again. In our 2012 Sustainability Report, we set out a 12-point agenda with each a clear target for im-provement over the year ahead. Our performance on safety was clearly unacceptable. More work is 
also needed in two other targets – supplier engage-
ment and landﬁ  ll. All the other ones – from employee 
contributions to energy efﬁ  ciency, and ISO certiﬁ  -
cation to can recycling – showed progress.
To what extent is sustainability being driven 
by c
ustomers?
PV: I think it’s a signiﬁ  cant factor and reﬂ  ects a trend 
in society in general. People want to buy products 
that are “responsible” because so much is at stake 
for the future of the planet. The feedback we get 
from our customers – and also their customers – is 
an ever-greater demand for “responsible aluminium” 
solutions. That means we have to create products that are not just acceptable but are actually re-quested by the end consumer. It’s why we helped to found the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative. 
We wanted to engage with downstream customers 
and non-governmental organizations (NGOs); in 
other words, with people from outside our industry.
Carmakers are increasingly turning to aluminium. How can that demand be met while still maintaining sustainability?
LM: B
y looking beyond just the production stage 
and assessing the entire life cycle. Aluminium is 
excellent for cars and the improvement in fuel con-
sumption and CO 2 emissions over a car’s lifetime 
will more than offset its production footprint. What’s 
more, the aluminium in cars is fully recycled – 
because it’s simply too valuable to go to landﬁ  ll. It’s 
true that there is a phenomenon of “downcycling” – where alloys of different value are mixed in recy-cling furnaces, typically to make engine blocks. In 
the long run, this problem will need to be addressed 
by the industry as increased volumes from end-of-
life vehicles will call for better alloy sorting in order 
to allow for their recycling in wrought products. 
Today, better alloy segregation is already needed to 
extract most of the value from car manufacturing scrap, for instance.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   5 09/06/2014   14:576
   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 2013In terms of sustainability, what are the priorities 
for 2014?
LM: A t plant level, there are three of them – with 
safety undoubtedly being top of the list, followed 
by energy efﬁ  ciency and effective recycling. Safety 
has always been an absolute priority, and there 
are comprehensive policies and measures already 
in place to deliver that. I think the challenge is one 
of focusing our employees on the need for safe behaviors on a day-to-day basis. We’ve done a lot 
in terms of implementing new safety systems, but 
the bulk of the injuries that are still occurring are linked to people’s behavior. That said, it’s also a management issue; we have to ensure that the 
rules are clear and simple, that they can be applied 
and that the rigor and discipline are there to make 
sure they are followed.PV: We have been working hard at our plants for 
many years to improve Environment, Health and 
Safety (EHS), along with energy consumption. But 
putting it all together in a single sustainability framework is more recent. It is a long journey and we are still not where we want to be. The publica-tion of our first Sustainability Report last year, along with sustainability targets showed to our employees that individual actions are consistent and part of a global sustainability policy. It is also important to realize that we are part of a value chain and that what we do internally is essential – but cannot be enough. We need to work closely 
with our suppliers and customers to provide solu-
tions that benefit all stakeholders. That means making sure we buy aluminium in a responsible way, that we recycle as much as possible, and that our products help to meet the CO
2 challenge. 
We are certainly a very important link in the chain 
– but ultimately we are only one link. Otherwise we 
will miss the big picture. At company level, we have deﬁ  ned four key sus-
tainability themes in our objectives and roadmaps. 
The ﬁ  rst of these is safety. More than an indicator 
of good management, it is our ﬁ  rst ethical respon-
sibility to make sure that our people are safe at 
work. The second is to provide products that meet CONSTELLIUM AND THE UN GLOBAL 
COMPACT
“I am pleased to conﬁ  rm that Constellium 
reafﬁ  rms its support of the Ten Principles of 
the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We have embedded these principles in our sustainability roadmap including key commitments and action plans, which we share in this report.”Pierre Vareille, Chief Executive Ofﬁ  cer
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   6 09/06/2014   14:577
   CONSTELLIUMour customers’ needs and bring the beneﬁ  ts I men-
tioned earlier. Even though our own activity is by 
far not the most energy intensive in the value chain, 
efﬁ cient operations are another key theme, as our 
plants have energy-consuming processes and 
produce both emissions and waste. All of these need to be minimized and I think we are doing a good job on that front. We can’t ask our suppliers to be more efficient if we are not efficient our-selves. Finally, governance is also an important theme in our approach to sustainability.
What are the plans for energy efﬁ  ciency 
and
 recycling?
LM: En ergy efﬁ  ciency is a mixture of straightfor-
ward capital projects and technical improvements 
on the one hand, but also people’s behavior on the 
other. For example, simply closing a furnace door 
as soon as possible save s energy, as does switch-
ing off lights. People really can make a difference. 
To encourage that, we have put a lot of effort into 
communication at shop ﬂ  oor level – which is also 
an important part of our LEAN transformation program. LEAN is partly about making sure that supervisors and managers are spending most of 
their time on the shop ﬂ  oor with operators – com-
municating, motivating and instilling the right rigor and discipline. They need to make sure that 
people understand and have the right behavior. As 
for recycling, we’re doing a good job on internal 
aluminium scrap – none of which is wasted. Where 
we still have room for improvement is to minimize the generation of scrap not only in our plants but also in downstream activities. 2014 is the Year of 
Quality and that will help reduce internal scrap and 
improve the quality of products we ship to our cus-
tomers. Innovative products and solutions will also 
save metal. But we also keep increasing our recyc-
ling capacities. Finally, Constellium is a partner in 
a wide variety of national and international recy-
cling initiatives – from R&D and sorting projects to 
scrap collection programs.
How do those objectives ﬁ  t with the business 
imperative?
PV: Y ou can’t have one without the other. We want 
to remain the most proﬁ  table company in our in-
dustry and to do that we need both excellence and 
sustainability in customer relations, operations and innovation. We cannot have commercial success 
without satisﬁ  ed customers, without plants that are 
working well and without new products. In the long 
run, financial performance and sustainability 
performance are linked. It’s just good management. 
What are the main challenges facing Constellium in terms of sustainability?
LM: T
he main challenge is the engagement of our 
people, which is also a key element of the LEAN 
transformation and its KPIs. We have communica-
tion tools, well-deﬁ  ned processes for employee 
suggestions, participation in improvement work-shops and other activities. It’s about getting peo-
ple actively involved in what the company is doing 
– making people more aware of what customers want and how we provide our solutions. Sustain-
ability clearly has a great deal to do with our prod-
ucts and processes. But ultimately, it all comes down to people.
PV: Five years ago, we had individual sustainabil-
ity practices, but there was no overall framework. 
That’s what we have now, although it remains a 
“work in progress” and we still need to bring those 
individual threads closer together. Five years from 
now, I would like us to have an agenda that is 
widely shared across the company, so that people 
are conscious of sustainability in the work they 
do, whatever their activity, be it designing a new product or operating machinery.
Finally, would you like your relationship 
w
ith the wider community to change?
PV: I wo uld like our company to engage more with external stakeholders. For example, we have a dialogue with non-governmental organizations 
through the ASI, but we don’t have NGOs or anyone 
else directly challenging us on what we are doing 
on sustainability. Today, the Constellium Sustain-
ability Council is purely internal, but one of my 
goals is to introduce people from outside. Similar-ly, I think we should look for opportunities to invite 
a broader range of stakeholders into our plants. It may sound counter-intuitive, but being chal-lenged on our sustainability will actually help the business – as it will help us to address an issue that I believe will be a key factor in being compet-itive in the future.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   7 09/06/2014   14:57   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 20138
PRO
DU
CTSMAKING
ALUMINIUMCOUNT
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   8 09/06/2014   14:57   CONSTELLIUM9
Whether it’s the aerospace, automotive or packaging 
markets, Constellium has developed products that highlight the unique properties of aluminium. With their strong focus on recyclability, innovation and lightweighting, these products were created with our customers’ needs in mind. PRODUCTS AND SUSTAINABILITY 
A portfolio of 
sustainable products
Far from being an abstract 
idea, sustainability can actu-
ally be seen as Constellium’s 
core product. Its strong, 
lightweight aluminium alloys help to cut fuel consumption and CO
2 
emissions in aircraft and automo-biles, while its recycling operations contribute to saving CO
2 emissions. 
Innovation in all three areas focuses 
on exploiting aluminium’s intrinsic properties: mechanical strength, low density, formability, thermal and electrical conductivity, corrosion resistance, and inﬁ  nite recyclability. 
LIGHTER, STRONGER AND SAFER 
From Crash Management Systems 
that make cars safer and lighter to 
AIRWARE® technology that cuts weight 
up to 25% compared with convention-
al aircraft materials, sustainability is clearly a key driver for innovation. Lightweighting also has widespread applications in transportation and industry. Along with innovative ideas, however, recycling also has a major role to play. Recycling aluminium re-quires only 5% of the energy needed 
to produce primary metal. As a result, 
Constellium invests in its own recy-cling circuits and is also involved in programs to recycle aluminium-intensive products with industry and the general public. These include no-tably the Clean Sky initiative in aero-space, Every Can Counts in beverage can packaging and the Technological Research Institute for Materials, Metallurgy and Processes (IRT M2P). 
Along with its physical properties, the 
other true test of a product’s sustain-
ability is customer satisfaction. For this 
reason, Constellium has developed training and visit programs which en-
sure that all its employees – including 
production staff – understand the key 
needs of customers.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   9 09/06/2014   14:57   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201310
The importance of recycling to Constellium’s 
activities cannot be overestimated. 
Producing primary aluminium frombauxite ore requires around 20 times 
more energy than creating new metal from recycled 
aluminium. No other major material exhibits such 
a huge difference in the environmental impacts of 
its two potential sources. As a result, recycling is 
both a major driver of sustainability and a business 
imperative. Its importance is reﬂ  ected in the fact 
that recycling is carried out at all three stages of Recycling is an integral part of Constellium’s business 
model. The fact that aluminium can be endlessly melted down and recast without any loss of its mechanical properties is the key to its sustainability.
 RECYCLING 
An inﬁ  nite
life cycle
SCRAP PROCESSING IN DECIN
A new recycling furnace opened in Decin 
in September 2013 to treat two types of scrap: “closed loop” process scrap from customers in Germany and the Czech Republic, plus a variety of end-of-life products including coated aluminium sheets from building demolition. The furnace, which has an annual capacity of 5,000 tons of molten metal, also introduces a new technology to the Constellium group. Complementary to the existing rotary furnaces, the new unit will broaden both the recycling skills and the industrial capacity to deal with various types of scrap.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   10 09/06/2014   14:57   CONSTELLIUM11
75% 
BEVERAGE 
CAN RECYCLING RATE IN EUROPE BY 2015
the life cycle – using the internal process scrap 
created during transformation; customers’ scrap produced by stamping, milling and other pro-cesses; and the recovery of end-of-life products. Although progress can still be made in alloy seg-regation, the ﬁ  rst two stages are generally dealt 
with efﬁ  ciently. The main challenge in this area is 
to increase the recycling of end-of-life products. Constellium is engaged in numerous short and long-term initiatives to increase the amount of recycling (see insets) . A combination of internal 
programs and projects with partners, these initia-
tives concentrate on three priority areas for im-provement: collection rate, sorting and recycling processes. Every Can Counts, a campaign to increase beverage can collection, is one example 
of a project with immediate beneﬁ  ts. The IRT M2P 
program, of which Constellium is a co-founder, is a French government R&D initiative for the 
Recycling is both 
a major driver of sustainability and a business imperative.Every Can Counts: can recycling made easy
Every Can Counts was launched in 2009 to encourage 
consumers to recycle beverage cans. Caroline Archer, Marketing and Key Account Director for Crown’s beverage can business in Europe and Middle East and Chairwoman of Every Can Counts, explains.
What is Every Can Counts?
Around 30% of beverage cans 
are consumed in workplaces or 
by people “on the go”. Every 
Can Counts is a communication 
program that spurs consumers 
to recycle their cans when 
away from home. The message 
is simple, credible and fun: 
put your can in a collection bin 
and it will be recycled.  
Launched in the United King-dom, today the program oper-ates seven licensed country programs (France, Austria, Hungary, Romania, Ireland, 
United Kingdom, and Montene-
gro), and will soon launch in Greece.
How is Constellium involved 
with
 the program?
Constellium has been in-v
olved as a funding partner 
and supportive of Every Can Counts from the start. The Constellium plant in Colmar (Neuf-Brisach) has been a 
great ambassador for the pro-
gram in the Alsace region. 
What progress has been 
m
ade and what challenges 
lie ahead?
More than 3,000 workplaces 
h
ave now implemented Every 
Can Counts messaging, and 
there are over 11,500 branded 
collection points in place across Europe. Together the country programs have taken part in a total of 590 outdoor events. Today recycling rates for beverage cans across Europe are close to 70%. Industry’s target is to reach 80% by 2020, and I think through cooperation in infra-
structure and communication 
we can help make this happen.WATCH CAROLINE ARCHER’S 
FULL INTERVIEW ONLINE
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   11 09/06/2014   14:57   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201312
longer term. Designed to promote technology 
transfer from university to industry, part of its re-
mit is to develop measurement and separation 
techniques for recycling. Constellium’s Research and Technology agenda addresses this issue through a series of projects dealing with re-melting process optimization in rotary furnaces or oxy-fuel technology to enhance both metal recovery and energy efﬁ  ciency. Other 
projects focus on new methods of scrap sorting and preparation, along with the development of enhanced computer-modeling techniques for 
assessing the thermal and ﬂ  ow properties of molten 
material. Constellium is active in all these areas, and is a ﬁ rm advocate of better scrap separation at every 
level of collection. Effective separation is the key 
to avoiding unnecessary scrap mixing and unwant-
ed contamination – thereby preserving both the performance and value of the alloys involved. Another contribution should come from product designs that take future recycling into account. 
Preventing an accumulation of mixed alloys is also 
important since unsorted metal is expected to lose 
value in the long term as demand decreases. The ability to keep more of the valuable wrought 
alloys in a closed production loop is therefore vital 
for the future and is a key reason for Constellium’s 
involvement in the IRT M2P recycling taskforce. Constellium’s aim is not to increase the recycled content of a specific product, as the limited availability of secondary aluminium means the 
EVERY CAN COUNTS IN FRANCE
In 2012, Constellium’s Neuf-Brisach site helped to launch Chaque Canette Compte (CCC), the French counterpart of Every Can Counts (see page 11) , with 
the support of the Beverage Can Makers Europe (BCME). The site hosts two business students in charge of prospecting new collection sites, and promotion, through events, public relations, and communication. They help joining members, such as Eiffage or the University of Upper Alsace, to ﬁ  nd existing collection 
systems or offer them tailor-made collection solutions. CCC is also present at such events as the motorcycle “Dark Dog Tour” or the WRC French round “Rallye de France-Alsace”, deploying ad hoc collection systems. Thanks to CCC, 7 million cans were collected in two years, saving more than 1,000 tons of CO
2 emissions.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   12 09/06/2014   14:57   CONSTELLIUM13
RECYCLING INITIATIVE
Constellium has joined the Center for 
Resource Recovery and Recycling (CR3), 
an initiative that brings together universities and industrial partners in Europe and the US. CR
3 deploys 
projects with a common aim of using new technology to achieve “zero waste” 100% recycling. Projects such as automated scrap sorting, the conditioning of machining chips and molten metal composition measurement are of direct interest to Constellium, which is represented by the Constellium Techology Center.
company would be simply diverting recycled 
metal from elsewhere. Clearly, there is no environ-
mental beneﬁ  t in increasing the recycled content 
of one product to the detriment of another. The goal 
is instead to increase the efﬁ  ciency of the entire 
lifecycle.IRT M2P: preparing 
the future of recycling
How can aluminium recovery be improved? Constellium 
and Derichebourg Environment are sharing ideas as part of the IRT M2P industry research program, says Derichebourg’s R&D Director Manuel Burnand.
How are Derichebourg and Constellium involved in the IRT M2P?
Derichebourg is a longstand-
in
g major player in aluminum 
recycling; active in sorting, 
improvement of scrap quality 
and refining. Constellium is 
also involved in aluminum re-
cycling.IRT M2P provides a collab-orative platform to work on sorting technologies for alu-minium scrap. For instance, 
together with the car industry 
we analyze the composition of 
end-of-life vehicles and the 
efﬁ ciency of the various sort-
ing steps. There is also a need 
to provide more information to 
feed Life Cycle Analysis data-
bases and IRT M2P aims to address this.
The program also provides an 
opportunity to check the com-
patibility of both strategies and think about ways to im-prove the cooperation be-tween our companies.
What are the key areas o
f progress for both 
companies?
One key improvement area 
is
 the recovery of the added 
value of aluminum alloys produced by the aluminum 
industries for various markets: 
automotive, aerospace, pack-
aging, etc.New products will arrive on 
the recycling market, such as 
aluminium alloys from air-plane recycling. Aluminium parts in cars have also in-creased in recent years and will create both issues and opportunities for aluminium 
recycling. The two companies 
will have to pool their exper-tise to address these emerg-ing issues.
WATCH MANUEL BURNAND’S 
FULL INTERVIEW ONLINE
The LCA and Recycling working group of the IRT M2P, which comprises 
representatives from French institutes (UTT, IRT M2P, Mines Nancy) and industry (ArcelorMittal, Constellium, Derichebourg, Renault and Safran).
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   13 09/06/2014   14:57   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201314
As a technology company, 
innovation is key to  Constellium’s future  growth. To ensure that 
innovation plays a vital role in our 
activities, the company has set itself 
an ambitious target of achieving 10% 
of its annual sales by 2015 from prod-
ucts or processes created within the 
previous five years. Constellium is 
now very close to meeting that target, 
having earned 9.3% of its sales from 
these products in 2013, and is conﬁ  -
dent that this percentage will contin-
ue to increase. In a complex technological environ-ment, delivering innovation has 
to rely on effective project manage-
ment. To manage its projects, 
Constellium uses a gate process that 
takes a product from the idea stage through to development, industrial-
ization and delivery to the customer. 
Gate reviews are carried out cross- Constellium’s research programs and 
innovation have delivered a wide array of new products, all of which include sustainability as a key component. INNOVATION 
Embedding sustainabilityinto innovation
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   14 09/06/2014   14:57   CONSTELLIUM15
functionally to ensure that all 
requirements are met before the product moves to the next stage.
LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT 
Since the end of 2013, Constellium 
introduced the use of Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) to analyze the potential environmental impact of a 
new product or process. The starting 
point for any innovative new product 
is an assessment of how it performs 
against a sustainability checklist that 
covers not only the environmental 
aspects, but also the possible health, 
safety, and social implications.
The results then lead to a decision as 
to whether an LCA is required or not. 
If one is needed, an assessment will be conducted using standard LCA tools and calculations. All of these assessments and checklists will be used when “Go-No go” decisions need to be taken at various mile-stones during a project. The check-
lists and the assessments have been 
designed as practical tools to help with decision-making. Their use will also help to raise a more general awareness of sustainability issues within the company.
ALL 
MAJOR NEW 
INNOVATION PROJECTS THROUGH LCA BY 2015
10% 
OF SALES FROM INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS BY 2015
What is Dassault’s role 
in Clean Sky?
We are working on several 
In
tegrated Technology Dem-
onstrator (ITD) and are co-lead-
ers of the Eco-Design ITD, which has two parts: Eco-Design Airframe (EDA), which 
looks mainly at manufacturing 
with lower environmental im-pacts, and Eco-Design Sys-tems (EDS), which aims to 
replace certain hydraulics with 
electrical systems – e.g. for actuators – so as to reduce fuel consumption and the use of hydraulic ﬂ  uids.
How does Constellium ﬁ 
t into this?
In EDA, we’re cooperating on a 
project to develop a new alu-minium-lithium-magnesium alloy – with lower density and better intrinsic resistance to corrosion – for fuselage panels. 
In parallel, we are devel oping 
new surface treatments with-
out Chromium VI and are able to mill panels by mechan ical rather than chemical means. Our Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) show there are signiﬁ  -
cant beneﬁ  ts from this. 
What does Constellium b
ring to Clean Sky?
It brings the perspective of a r
aw material supplier, and 
that’s important because LCA studies on parts of our 
aircraft show that raw mater-
ials have a very big impact at 
the production stage. So if we, 
as Dassault, want to reduce our environmental impact we need to work with our  
suppliers, both of metals and 
composites.Protecting the environment 
with Clean Sky 
Dassault and Constellium are part of Clean Sky, 
a European Commission program with the aerospace industry to improve the environmental impact of aviation. Jérôme Lery, Senior Project Manager at Dassault, explains the project and the involvement of the two companies.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   15 09/06/2014   14:57   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201316
A variety of new aluminium products were launched 
in 2013, offering enhanced performance for the 
automotive, transportation and industry sectors. INNOVATION 
New products and programs
HYBRID MONORAIL
A hybrid aluminium-composite mono-
rail has been jointly developed by 
Constellium and its partner Scomi for 
more sustainable urban transport. 
Introduced in Mumbai, India, the hybrid 
offers a mass improvement of 5-10% 
and reduced energy consumption.
BPA NON-INTENT LACQUERS
A project to produce a metallic pack-
aging lacquer with no intentional 
traces of Bisphenol A (BPA) has en-abled Constellium’s Neuf-Brisach 
plant to become one of Europe’s ﬁ  rst 
suppliers of BPA non-intent lacquer for coated aluminium, used for bev-erage can ends and food cans.STAYBRIGHT™
A product for car trims, STAYBRIGHT™ 
combines the brilliance of aluminium 
with a surface treatment that is highly resistant to regular washing 
with high pH products; the trim stays 
bright for the car’s lifetime and there 
is no need for recoating.
NEW SOLAR ABSORBER SURFACE
This new solution is a new generation 
of surfaces for solar thermal energy 
collectors that make solar absorbers 
more affordable and effective. With 
its unique surface treatment technol-
ogy, this solution offers an efﬁ  cient 
manufacturing process for solar ab-
sorbers and makes it possible to use 
aluminium instead of copper.
(1) “BPA non-intent” refers to the fact that Bisphenol A (BPA) is ubiquitous in the natural environment, and very small amounts  may be 
detected in “non-BPA” substances, as current technology measures in parts per billion. We refer to “BPA non-intent,” rather tha n “BPA-still 
free” as a more accurate term for these circumstances. Moreover, current food contact materials have been in use for over 40 ye ars, and 
are considered safe by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulatory authorities around the world. Our industr y-leading 
conversion to BPA non-intent can linings is strictly to remove any consumer concerns that may arise from health-related allegat ions about 
the use of BPA epoxy linings, rather than from any speciﬁ  c knowledge or concern on Constellium’s part regarding their safety.
FORMALEX® PLUS
A highly formable alloy for car doors, 
FORMALEX® PLUS allows automotive 
manufacturers to use their existing 
steel stamping tool with only minimal 
changes – enabling them to produce 
a door that is 40% lighter.NEW HIGH-STRENGTH ALLOY FOR 
CRASH MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Constellium has launched a new 
ultra-high strength 6xxx alloy to make car bumpers even safer and lighter. This alloy reduces the intru-
sion distance by 14% and the bumper 
mass by 15% compared with existing 
solutions – weight savings that also lowers CO
2 emissions.
GRIPSTER™
A new design pattern for aluminium 
tread plates, GRIPSTER™ has main-ly been developed for use on com-
mercial trucks to improve safety and 
delivery efﬁ  ciency, while also reduc-
ing noise levels. It is also signiﬁ  cant-
ly more resistant to wear (compared 
to plastic or wood), enabling truck 
manufacturers to build more durable 
vehicles.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   16 09/06/2014   14:57   CONSTELLIUM17
Constellium believes in making its production teams 
aware our customers’ needs by bringing the two sides together during plant visits. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
Working closely with 
our customers
Satisfying the needs of 
customers is fundamental 
for any company. At  
Constellium, an important 
way of delivering that satisfaction is 
to make our production teams fully 
aware of our customers’ needs, particularly in terms of quality. As a result, Constellium takes the initia-tive of visiting the facilities of major 
customers and inviting clients to the 
company’s plants. Working in part-nership with customers is one of Constellium’s basic principles: by bringing the two sets of production teams together, the partnership takes on a human scale. Further-more, we systematically introduce our collaborators to the proﬁ  les of 
our key accounts in order to raise their awareness of their needs.
PRESTIGIOUS VISITORSThe value of this approach was 
highlighted in numerous exchanges 
throughout 2013. The process team of 
Neuf-Brisach’s Automotive Production 
Unit visited the Audi plant at Neckar-sulm, Germany, where the automak-er’s technical experts explained the surface quality checks and expecta-tions they apply at every stage of the 
production process – from aluminium 
coil to ﬁ  nished assembly. For its part, 
Constellium’s Decin plant was visited 
by a team from major automotive cus-
tomer Bosch, while the Ravenswood 
facility hosted Lockheed Martin’s F-35 
Lightning II ﬂ  ight simulator as part of 
a site visit by the US defense company.
LASTING PARTNERSHIPS
Constellium aims to build long-term 
relationships with its customers and to support their development. It has been successful on both counts. Herti JSC was producing aluminium closures as a small family-run busi-ness in Bulgaria when Constellium made its ﬁ  rst delivery of a dozen kilos 
of metal some 20 years ago. Today, 
thousands of tons later, Herti has sub-
sidiaries across Europe and exports to 
35 countries. Constellium also helps customers by supporting their cam-
paigns. For example, the company has 
joined the “Turn 360°” campaign by manufacturers of aluminium wine closures to promote their product’s 
beneﬁ  ts compared with cork or plastic.
Constellium employees visit the Audi Neckarsulm plant in Germany.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   17 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201318
WHERE SKILLS
AND SAFETY MEET
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   18 09/06/2014   14:58   CONSTELLIUM19
By its own admission, Constellium’s safety record 
in 2013 was unacceptable. Two fatal accidents tragically underlined the need for constant vigilance at the company’s plants, even though many safety measures are in place. SAFETY 
Facing up to 
the safety challenge
The safety of employees, subcontractors 
and visitors is of paramount importance 
to Constellium and a concerted Environ-
ment, Health and Safety (EHS) program 
– EHS FIRST – has helped the company to signiﬁ  -
cantly improve its safety record in recent years. 
However, this only serves to highlight the contrast 
between recent progress and an unacceptable 
record in 2013 of two fatalities – at the company’s 
Levice and Ravenswood plants respectively – and 
a further ﬁ  ve accidents involving serious injury. The 
Recordable Case Rate, which had been declining 
year on year since 2004, remained largely un-changed in 2013.Constellium has stepped up its safety improvement program at the company’s plants over the course of 
2013. A self-assessment process devoted to serious 
injury risks has been carried out at each site, leading 
to action plans, implementation and subsequent auditing by Environment, Health and Safety teams. 
Five key areas were covered by the self-assessment: 
cranes and lifting devices, mobile equipment-pedestrian safety, stacking, working at height and man-machine interface. In addition, each individual Autonomous Production Unit at every plant uses a 
LEAN manufacturing tool known as 8D1 to determine 
and address the root causes of a minimum of one 
potential hazard or near miss every quarter. Dedicat-
ed auditors are assessing the quality of 8Ds carried out at plants on a quarterly basis. In addition, to underline the need for our safety rules to be strictly applied, coaching is being provided at sites to make the recently- introduced Compliance To Rules Tours fully effective. Furthermore, EHS FIRST leadership 
training is being provided to new plant managers and 
existing line management, and communication tools 
including safety videos are being produced with in-
creased frequency. Finally, to further improve safety 
when dealing with hazardous chemicals, a speciﬁ  c 
audit program is focusing on the risks associated with 
the transport and use of hydroﬂ  uoric acid.
(1) 8D is a team-based, structured, step-by-step problem-solving 
methodology used to analyse the root causes of a safety or environmental incident, based on an eight-step roadmap. The EHS 8D is designed to avoid recurrence of the incident as well as similar incidents caused by the same root causes elsewhere in the plant.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   19 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201320
MONITORING PROGRESS
These measures, all of which are monitored at 
regular intervals throughout the year, are part of a drive towards zero accidents – a target that is already being achieved at various company sites. At the end of 2013, Constellium’s plant at Decin, 
Czech Republic, had not had a recordable accident 
since April 2010 – representing more than 4.5 million working hours. Decin was one of nine Constellium plants not to experience a single recordable accident over the course of last year 
– with ﬁ  ve of those plants operating accident-free 
for more than 1 million working hours.Progress in improving safety risk awareness was also tracked during 2013 with the reporting of high-potential first aid cases, near misses and hazards. Constellium has strongly encouraged employees to flag-up all such situations – as a 
means of preventing serious injuries – and 72 were 
reported in 2013, up from 18 in 2011. An 8D exercise 
to determine the root causes and remedial actions 
is carried out in every case.SUBCONTRACTORS: A WIDER SAFETY NET
Safety at Constellium plants is not just a matter for the company’s employees. It also needs to be a priority for the many subcontractors who work at its facilities and who are included in the safety process. At Issoire, for example, several hundred audits are carried out a year on some 150 subcontractors – who are responsible for more than 10% of the total hours worked at the plant. Issoire subcontractors also have their own EHS awards competition, with separate categories for best results, best progress and best achievement. An annual forum is held with Issoire’s subcontractors, providing an opportunity to underline safety regulations and requirements, and also to assess the past year’s performance and areas for improvement.
0 
SERIOUS INJURIES 
IN 2015
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   20 09/06/2014   14:58   CONSTELLIUM21
SHARING BEST PRACTICES
Recognition for the EHS efforts being made by 
teams and individuals at site level is clearly im-portant. That recognition is provided in a number of ways, notably in the “EHS FIRST and Sustain-ability” category of the company’s annual Thank You Awards for its employees. In 2013, the Gold Award was presented by Constellium CEO Pierre 
Vareille to a team from Issoire for their work on the 
identiﬁ  cation and storage of casting tools, there-
by reducing molten metal risk. The Silver Award 
went to employees from Neuf-Brisach for a project 
that avoids the need for casting operators to assist in the drop start-up of the casting system. 
A fall- arrest system introduced at Landau for truck 
loading took the Bronze Award.Similar recognition is given in Shared Practice 
Competitions organized during EHS Network Meet-
ings held at plants during the year. Teams from several plants are brought together to learn from each other and to vote for the best new safety meas ures to have been introduced. 
INDUSTRY RECOGNITIONA “Safety solutions competition” held during the 
European Aluminium Association (EAA) Safety Workshop in June saw Constellium take the top three places out of 39 entrants, selected by some 
50 participants from EAA member companies at the 
session. Winning entries have included new low- energy LED lighting at the casthouse in Singen and 
a fall-arrest system introduced at the Landau plant 
for the repair of skylights on roofs. These two 
meas ures, along with the casting tool identiﬁ  cation 
initiative at Issoire, helped Constellium to earn ex-
ternal recognition for its work to improve site safety.HEALTH AND SAFETY
Constellium supports a variety of projects to promote employee safety and wellbeing. Singen made 2013 the “Year of the Healthy Back,” providing presentations and shop-ﬂ  oor 
training on ergonomics in the workplace, along with back-related gymnastics exercises. At Voreppe, a working group was set up to ﬁ nd ways of measuring and dealing with 
stress. One of the actions implemented was to have every employee attend a training session devoted to raising awareness of psychosocial risks in the workplace.60% 
IMPROVEMENT 
IN RECORDABLE CASES BY 2014RECORDABLE CASE RATE
Recordable case rate is the number of recordable 
cases per 1,000,000 working hours.
200415
912
6
3
0
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
NUMBER OF SERIOUS INJURIES (SI) 
INCLUDING FATALITIES
Project contractors and visitors have been 
systematically included in these statistics since 2008. Before that, only “extended” contractors, such as canteen and security staff, were included.
20048
7
5
46
3
2
1
2005 2010 2013 2006 2007 2008 2009 2011 2012
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   21 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201322
To develop the skills it needs, Constellium has 
turned to a combination of apprentice programs and management training. SKILL DEVELOPMENT 
Where training
and apprenticeships count
In a rapidly changing environment, Constellium’s 
future depends on having the right people 
with the rights skills – whatever their role in the 
company. Over the past year, Constellium has 
focused on two areas for its development and 
transformation as a company: apprenticeships and 
training for front line managers. Apprenticeships not only provide specific skills 
that are not taught at school or college, they also provide a talent pool for the wider range of com-
petences needed in Constellium’s activities. Since 
recruitment is localized, they are also a way of bringing the company closer to the communities where its facilities are based, providing employ-
ment and training. Following successful programs 
at Constellium plants in Germany and Switzerland, 
a group of 15 young men and women were hired at 
the Neuf-Brisach plant in France last September 
for a two-year apprenticeship to become produc-
tion line operators. The plant plans to repeat the exercise in 2014.
MORE TRAINING
Across the company, training for front line managers is a key driver of the transformation program underway at the company and signiﬁ  cant resources were invested over the 
course of 2013. More than 50 trainers achieved certiﬁ  cation in 4 leadership modules, and went 
on to deliver more than 6,300 hours of courses – training more than 300 front line managers.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   22 09/06/2014   14:58   CONSTELLIUM23
Constellium carried out an extensive employee survey 
in 2012, which led to a number of improvement programs. A new survey in 2014 will assess their effectiveness. MOTIVATION AND ENGAGEMENT 
Listening 
to our people
Job satisfaction is clearly important to all 
employees. The survey carried out in 2012 
indicated a number of areas where 
employee satisfaction could be improved. 
Among the needs expressed were better commun-
ication about the company’s strategy and results, 
a greater sense of belonging within the organization 
and more visibility for the challenges and results 
at plant level.
CONCRETE ACTIONS
A series of action plans have been carried out based 
on the expressed needs. Constellium’s plant in 
Montreuil-Juigné has revived and updated its quarterly employee/management meetings along LEAN principles to inform people about plant and company strategy, and to provide a Q&A session. Such initiatives are similar in scope to those for making employees more aware of customer needs 
through plant visits (see p. 17).  A weekly plant news-
paper that focuses on success stories in production 
improvement is now published at Issoire, while 
Neuf-Brisach has introduced screens in production 
areas showing company and customer videos. At Singen, management addressed the question of a sense of belonging by organizing a workshop on Constellium’s vision and values. The event, which brought together 80 people from all areas of the plant, saw employees work together to describe 
their mission at Singen. Their text has since become 
a brochure for managers to use with their teams. Along with these measures, Constellium also 
invested in a ﬁ  nancial recognition of its employees’ 
contribution and commitment in 2013. The compa-
ny offered each employee 25 shares (worth $370 or €285 each at the time) at no cost, subject to certain conditions.
6 POINT 
IMPROVEMENT 
IN THE EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION RATE IN 201450% 
IMPROVEMENT IN EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONSBY 2014 
75% 
PARTICIPATION RATE IN THE EMPLOYEE SURVEY IN 2014
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   23 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201324
Constellium has set out in writing what it expects from 
its employees in terms of ethical behavior. The Constellium Code of Conduct set rules such as – among others – the fight against corruption and respect of human rights, in consonance with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). ETHICAL BEHAVIOR 
Ensuring an effective 
code of conduct
In many ways, people’s conscious awareness 
of a code of conduct is as important as the 
policies themselves. Constellium has therefore 
developed an e-learning tool to make its 
employees aware of the company’s rules on ethical 
behavior. The interactive program creates a series 
of practical scenarios involving ethical dilemmas which the respondent then has to resolve, if 
necessary with the help of summaries of the code. 
All new managers are expected to complete a training session on the Constellium Code of 
Conduct using this tool, while existing management 
is expected to undergo a refresher course every 
year. In 2013, more than 95% managers completed 
these training sessions. The objective is to reach 100% in 2014.
THE IMPORTANCE OF ETHICS
Constellium’s policy on ethical behavior and its stand on anti-corruption are an integral part of the way it conducts business. To remove any doubt and to promote best practices for people at all levels of the organization, the Code of Conduct sets out the company’s expectations of its employees. Available in six languages on the company intranet and website
* so as to be accessible 
to all employees, it covers areas such as respect for human rights and equality in the workplace, and conforming to EHS policies and practices. The ethical conduct expected in business dealings – including policies on gifts and entertainment, integrity and competition issues – is also explained. The Code of Conduct is an essential tool in the ﬁ  ght against corruption and to make 
sure that human rights are respected within the company. Both are key principles of the UNGC.
* http://www.constellium.com/media/literature
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   24 09/06/2014   14:58   CONSTELLIUM25
Constellium plants have a role to play in their 
local communities that goes beyond economics and employment. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
Being part 
of the community
Constellium is a willing 
participant in community 
engagement, either direct-
ly or through the voluntary 
efforts of its employees. Typically, 
these involve supporting a local char-
ity event or opening the doors of our plants to employees’ families and friends for a special occasion.For example, nearly 50 Constellium Singen employees and family mem-bers took part in the 2013 edition of 
a sponsored walk, jog and wheelchair 
event. Together they covered more than 800 kilometers, earning a €2,500 check from Constellium for 
BeTreff, a social institution for people 
with mental disabilities, partly funded 
by charitable donations. 
FAMILY ACTIVITIESPlant management at Ravenswood 
arranged a series of events for the 
beneﬁ  t of staff and their families over 
the course of 2013. More than 800 em-
ployees and family members came together to watch an evening base-
ball game in nearby Charleston, West 
Virginia, with the sporting entertain-
ment accompanied by a picnic dinner. 
Ravenswood also organized pool par-ties, with dinner provided and prizes 
for the youngsters. In December 2013, 
more than 600 employees and their families enjoyed a “Breakfast with Santa.” Similarly, Constellium’s joint venture plant in Changchun, China, organizes an annual “Show Me Your Company Day” for the families and 
friends of its employees. For half a day, guests get to visit the plant and listen 
to presentations about EHS and the 
company, while operators show people 
how their particular machines work. 
Along with raising the company’s pro-
ﬁ le locally, a key aim is to make people 
aware of the importance of workplace 
health and safety and protecting the environment.
The Singen team at the BeTreff event.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   25 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201326
OPE
RA
TIONSIMPROVING
RESOURCESEFFICIENCY
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   26 09/06/2014   14:58   CONSTELLIUM27
Energy is required for transforming aluminium into 
products that subsequently save CO 2 emissions in 
planes, cars and other weight-saving applications. Through investment, Constellium is consistently improving its energy efficiency. ENERGY 
The drive 
for efﬁ  ciency
Energy, and its efficient use, is a daily 
priority for Constellium’s plants. Turning 
ingots, billets or scrap into plates, sheets 
and extrusions requires energy and has 
long been a focus of efficiency improvements. 
Though energy consumption and greenhouse gas 
emissions contribute to global warming at the start 
of the product cycle, fossil fuel consumption and CO
2 emissions are then reduced throughout the 
life of the end product, notably by lightweighting 
(see Products, p. 9) . In addition, recycling aluminium 
allows for the substitution of primary aluminium 
production at a dramatically reduced energy cost 
(see Recycling, pp. 10-13) . 
GROWING DEMAND
In 2013, Constellium’s product mix for the aero-
space and automotive sectors switched to new 
alloys that offer better environmental performance 
over the life of the end product. However, the new alloys required more energy to produce, leading 
to an increase in consumption in 2013. Other con-
tributions to the increase of energy consumption come from increase of recycling activity in 
Neuf-Brisach, or the ramp-up phase of Decin’s new 
recycling oven (see Recycling, pp. 10-13) . Reﬂ  ecting 
the increase in energy, greenhouse gas emissions 
(GHG) also rose in 2013. However, a key aspect of the energy question is the efﬁ  ciency with which it is consumed. A series of projects at Constellium plants in 2013 supported further progress in the 
company’s energy efﬁ  ciency index. The index, which 
is calculated on the basis of energy consumption per 
processed metric ton – corrected from the effect of 
product mix change – consistently improved in 2013, 
for the third year in a row. Constellium is still on track 
for its 2015 objective of 10% improvement of the ratio compared with the 2010 baseline. Further 
investment in more energy-efﬁ  cient production tools 
is expected to help reaching this target.
AIMING FOR THE ISO 50001 STANDARD
Introduced by the International Organization for Standardization in 2011, ISO 50001 is a standard for implementing and maintaining an energy management system. Constellium’s plants in Germany have all been ISO 50001 certiﬁ  ed 2012. Issoire is the most advanced 
elsewhere, having completed the ﬁ  rst 
evaluation stage in September 2013, while Neuf-Brisach, Valais and Decin are at an earlier stage of the process. All the major European plants – accounting for two thirds of Constellium’s total energy consumption – are due to be certiﬁ  ed by the end of 2015.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   27 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201328
The energy-saving projects cover a wide range of 
activities. Some involve improvements in process 
recovery, such as the reduction of the scrap ratio in 
Levice, Slovakia, for instance. Others take the op-portunity of tools revamping or investment in new 
tools to bring better energy efﬁ  ciency due to state-
of-the-art equipment. This was in particular the case 
for the new furnace in Burg, Germany, or the new 
electric oven in Ravenswood, West Virginia, US. Last 
but not least, some projects aimed at reducing en-ergy consumption bring other beneﬁ  ts at the same 
time, like investment in LED lighting at Issoire and Singen (see below) . Technology and EHS networks 
also play a role to accelerate the diffusion of best 
practices within Constellium regarding energy consumption reduction. 
SINGEN’S EXAMPLE
As part of the energy-saving initiatives carried out 
in 2013 for ISO 50001 certiﬁ  cation, the Singen plant 
has begun replacing its high-pressure mercury-
ENERGY EFFICIENCY VS. ENERGY 
CONSUMPTION INDICATORS 
Increasing the share of high performance 
products that enable energy savings during their use more than compensates for the extra energy spent during production. Similarly, increasing recycling activity at Constellium sites enables to recycle more aluminium scrap, on the sites where they are going to be transformed into new products and substituted for primary metal. Yet in both cases this leads to an increase of Constellium’s energy consumption (as well as direct and indirect GHG emissions), as the resulting environmental beneﬁ  ts occur outside 
Constellium. Consequently, Constellium did not set absolute targets for energy consumption or reduction of GHG emissions but instead decided to use an energy-efﬁ  ciency performance 
indicator. The basis of this indicator is the amount of energy per metric ton needed to manufacture products. It is corrected from the effect of product mix changes to reﬂ  ect inherent 
production process performance.ISO 50001
MAJOR EUROPEAN 
SITES REACHING CERTIFICATION BY 2015
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   28 09/06/2014   14:58   CONSTELLIUM29
vapor (HQL) lamps with low-energy LED lighting. 
The new lamps are three times brighter than HQLs 
– thereby providing a better, safer workplace – 
while electricity savings of around 70-80% mean that the installation costs of the new equipment 
should be recovered in less than 2.5 years. The ﬁ  rst 
phase of the project saw a third of all the casthouse 
lamps replaced.The brighter environment has been particularly 
appreciated by night-shift workers and also makes 
it easier to identify potential product quality issues 
in the sharper, higher-contrast light. Shop ﬂ  oor 
employees are also able to contribute to further energy savings by switching to power-save mode where appropriate. However, improved cost 
competitiveness, sustainability and safety are not the only beneﬁ  ts of the new equipment. With the 
service life of an LED lamp being in excess of 50,000 hours – around six years – there is also a clear beneﬁ  t for the plant’s maintenance depart-
ment, especially as the bulbs in the casthouse are 
suspended at heights of 12 to 15 meters.REVISED FIGURES
In 2013, two French plants in Ham and Saint-Florentin were divested. As their environmental impacts (emissions and consumption of resources) occurred while part of Constellium until their divestment, their contribution has been included in the 2013 ﬁ  gures. 
However, since these plants are no longer under Constellium control, their contribution has been excluded from the company’s environmental performance indicators that are based on relative data (energy efﬁ  ciency and the target of reducing landﬁ  ll 
waste by 75%). Moreover, from this year onward, the waste production indicators also exclude recycled aluminium scrap that had previously been accounted for as recycled waste by a number of plants. While this negatively contributes to the share of recycled waste, it is more accurate from a methodological point of view as aluminium scrap should not be considered as waste.
2010 2011 2012 2013
Total energy consumption (TJ) 10,890 10,810 10,936 11,677
Energy efﬁ  ciency index 1,000 0,957 0,934 0,926
Greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions (kt CO 2 eq.)694 686 701 74310% 
DECREASE 
IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER PROCESSED UNIT BY 2015
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   29 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201330
Constellium is working to reduce the amount 
of waste created during production, setting ambitious goals for the years ahead. WASTE 
Action plans 
to reduce waste
Though waste is an inevitable 
by-product of the manufac-
turing process, Constellium 
has long used recycling 
as a way of reducing the amount of production waste it sends to landﬁ  ll. In 2013, a total of 83.6% of 
Constellium’s waste was recycled, with only 11.4% going to landfill 
facilities. However, production waste 
tends to increase with aluminium casting and recycling activities – as indicated in the company’s 2013 
results compared to 2012 – and it has 
not yet been possible to improve the 
situation regarding landfill waste. 
We acknowledge the challenge ahead 
and have for this reason set an ambitious target of reducing landﬁ  ll 
waste by 75% by 2020.
NEW TARGETConstellium is committed to ad-
dressing the upward trend in waste 
volumes, not only to further improve 
its sustainability but also to reﬂ  ect 
its view that landﬁ  ll availability will 
become increasingly restricted in the 
years ahead. As a result, Constellium 
is taking a proactive approach by setting a target that would reduce its landﬁ  ll waste in weight terms by 
around 8,000 metric tons a year.
With just three plants – Neuf-Brisach, 
Issoire and Ravenswood – accounting 
for 95% of this waste, the company’s 
initial focus for improvement has been on the two plants in France. 
Testing is underway at Neuf-Brisach 
on process to recycle flue gas filtration dust. At Issoire, trials are 
being carried out to improve the sort-
ing of bricks and concrete to allow for their recycling, while permission has been obtained to incinerate the “mixed municipal waste” produced. These actions cover around 50% of the 2020 target and are expected to start delivering their ﬁ  rst results in 
2014. Althought these will be signif-icant milestones, further action will obviously be needed in the future to meet the 2020 target. 75%
TOTAL 
LANDFILL REDUCTION BY 2020
PRODUCTION WASTE (IN METRIC TONS)
 TOTAL
 RECYCLING INCINERATION
 LANDFILL2010100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
0
2011 2012 20138,224
8,840
9,683
10,858
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   30 09/06/2014   14:58   CONSTELLIUM31
A major project carried out in 2013 has led to a marked 
improvement in water treatment, while emissions to air showed no significant trend. WATER AND EMISSIONS TO AIR 
Working towards
higher standards 
Constellium’s water policy is guided by the 
results of a consumption assessment 
carried out at its major sites using the Global Water Tool. Since the results 
showed there to be no significant risk of water scarcity in the decades ahead, the company’s main focus has been on improving the quality of its water discharges – particularly in the light of increasing regulation. 
STABLE EMISSIONS
Constellium’s emissions to air are both stable and 
on a limited scale. Because of this limited impact, 
which is mainly linked to Constellium’s energy mix, 
the company does not currently consider this 
subject to be a high priority – beyond the respect of current and anticipated future legislation.
2010500
400
300
200
100
0
2011 2012 2013
 NOx
 PARTICULATE MATERIALS SO 2
 VOCEMISSIONS (IN METRIC TONS)A NEW PROCESS AT NEUF-BRISACH
70% of Constellium’s water is consumed at its Neuf-Brisach plant, which draws on local groundwater, primarily for cooling in the casting shop and rolling mill. To meet new regulations as part of its operating license renewal by the local authorities, Neuf-Brisach has delivered a remarkable improvement in water discharges from rolling mill – reducing the chemical oxygen demand (COD)
1 from 2,000 mg/l to 300 mg/l. 
The plant invested in a new process for treating rolling emulsions, involving cross ﬁ  ltration and reverse osmosis. 
The process was the result of a two-year project that brought together production, environmental management and research and development teams. 
(1) COD is used to measure the amount of organic components 
(pollutants) in water. 
WATER CONSUMPTION (IN 106 m3)
201030
25
20
15
10
5
0
2011 2012 2013
 TOTAL WATER
 GROUND WATER WATER FROM PUBLIC NET
 SURFACE WATER
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   31 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201332
GOV
ER
NANCESETTING  
INDUSTRY  STANDARDS
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   32 09/06/2014   14:58   CONSTELLIUM33
Constellium is committed to effective governance, 
transparency in its activities and improving the sustainability performance of the sector with industry associations. GOVERNANCE 
A culture
of transparency
Transparency is the key to 
effective governance. In 
2013, Constellium continued 
a policy of improving trans-
parency by providing the highest level of disclosure to the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Car-
bon Disclosure Project. The aim is a simple one : to provide data that will 
enable people to draw their own con-
clusions about Constellium’s environ-
mental performance. Constellium also has similar ambitions for its supply chain.An important goal is for as many of its key suppliers as possible to become fellow signatories of the UN Global Compact – a plan still in 
its early stages. The company is cur-
rently working on the methodology 
for embedding sustainability into its 
purchasing policy, while also develop-ing the future process for auditing the 
supply chain. The need to comply with Dodd-Frank Act regarding the 
Conﬂ  ict Minerals1 reporting require-
ment was a good opportunity to check the traceability of our raw 
materials, all along the supply chain. GOVERNANCE AT INDUSTRY LEVEL
Traceability is also important, as it 
will figure in the industry standard being developed by the Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative (ASI), of which 
Constellium is a co-founder. An early draft of the ASI standard – which will define principles and performance criteria in the areas of governance, the environment and social practice – was drawn up in 2013. The ﬁ  rst full version is due to 
be published in November 201 4, 
following two separate public consul-
tations and three review meetings by the standard-setting group over 
the course of this year. Constellium’s 
involvement in industry-wide gover-
nance is not limited to the work of the 
ASI, however. 
Through its membership of the Euro-
pean Aluminium Association (EAA), the company favors the dialog with governments and supranational authorities, such as European com-mission. One key topic of this dialog 
(1) Conflict minerals involve ores mined in the 
Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries that are used to produce tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   33 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201334
and Automotive Rolled Products 
(see interview, pp. 4-7),  underlined 
the challenge facing the industry in 
September 2013. “Efﬁ  cient collection 
and sorting systems are essential steps in the ﬁ  ght for higher recycling 
ambitions,” he told a seminar in Berlin. 
“The aluminium industry encourages 
policymakers and all stakeholders to 
implement best practices and consis-
tent approaches throughout Europe.”
WORKING CLOSELY WITH OUR SUPPLIERS
For a global organization such as 
Constellium, the ability to draw on an 
experienced and reliable supply chain 
is a major business asset. Building 
long-term relationships and working 
with our suppliers to improve perfor-
mance on both sides have long been back, recycling or ﬁ  nal disposal. The 
EAA has been discussing the guide-
lines for these initiatives with the EU, 
notably with a view to making them 
more effective across Europe. Cur-
rent schemes have revealed a lack of 
consistency at national level in recov-ering packaging from both households 
and public areas. Laurent Musy, Chair-
man of the EAA Packaging Board and 
President of Constellium’s Packaging is the impact of EU regulations on the 
competitiveness of the European aluminium industry.Another area of growing discussion 
is Extended Producer Responsibility 
(EPR), a concept that developed in the 1990s in Europe and makes manufacturers responsible for the entire life-cycle of their products – and specifically the end-of-life, either through schemes for take-
EPR is a concept that makes 
manufacturers responsible for the entire life-cycle of their products, and speciﬁ  cally 
at the end-of-life.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   34 09/06/2014   14:58   CONSTELLIUM35
guiding principles of the company. 
An improvement program involving aluminium slab supplier Rio Tinto Alcan (RTA) in 2013 illustrates how the theory translates into practice.
RTA’s Dunkerque plant is the largest 
external supplier of rolling slab to our 
site in Neuf-Brisach. As part of the improvement, RTA invested in the plant and worked with Constellium 
to optimize our stock of slab and the 
associated inventory costs. A proto-
type pull-flow process that linked production to ﬁ  rm customer orders 
was introduced so as to minimize 
overproduction. More effective com-
munication between Constellium and 
RTA was also built into the program.
POSITIVE RESULTS
The results proved to be highly satis-
factory. The achievements were also 
recognized by Constellium’s senior management during a visit to the Dunkerque plant after it succeeded in delivering 100% of the company’s orders on time and in full for 30 con-secutive weeks. The RTA Dunkerque team also provided a step change in product quality. Building on the  program, a pull-ﬂ  ow process is now 
being implemented at Neuf-Brisach for its highest-volume products. 
RTA will be responsible for the supply 
chain and inventory up to the Neuf- 
Brisach scalping machine in exchange 
for a rationalization of the ordered references, which will result in in-creased capacity for Dunkerque. For all of these projects, the key to success has been a shared commit-
ment to transparency and recognition 
of the need to create value for both sides.
100% 
OF KEY SUPPLIERS 
JOINING THE UNGC BY 2015ASI: the view 
from BMW Group
The Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) is supported 
by several of the world’s leading automotive brands. Dr. Alexander Nick, a Team Lead in the Sustainability and Environmental Protection Department at BMW Group, explains his company’s involvement with the initiative.
Why has BMW Group joined the ASI?
Our objective is to be the most 
sus
tainable automotive comp-
any and we have a comprehen-sive set of measures – both 
internally and for our suppliers. 
We work with our suppliers to ﬁ rmly establish sustaina-
bility throughout our supplier 
network. Therefore, we deﬁ  ned 
a risk management process including a risk filter, self-as-sessment questionnaires and audits. Beyond the boundaries 
of our company, we are involved 
in various industry and cross- industry initiatives such as the 
ASI to further establish environ-
mental and social standards in supply chains. 
What are your expectations 
o
f the ASI?
We want to help create a global 
standard that covers the supply chain from extraction to ﬁ  ni shed 
product; what’s vital is that it doesn’t become merely a niche 
standard – for which companies 
have to pay a premium. We want 
the bar to be raised for the whole industry, providing a more trans-
parent chain of custody with 
more trace ability of the materi-
al we buy.
How do you see 
C
onstellium’s role?
I’m very happy that Constellium 
is an active participant and is moving the ASI through the business, positioning it within 
Constellium as an initiative that 
will deﬁ  ne the future of alumin-
ium. The world is changing, and 
externalities need to be taken 
into account. If we are success-
ful, I think this can really be 
groundbreaking in the way that 
aluminium is produced and perceived.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   35 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 201336
Constellium reporting was checked by GRI Report Services, which 
concluded that the report fulfilled the requirements of Application Level A.
Key for GRI 3.1 disclosure levels: 
 Fully disclosed  not disclosed  partially disclosed
For the full report, our GRI Appendix is available on our website: www.constellium.com GRI INDEX 
Global Reporting Initiative
Disclosure Index
Location and status of disclosures: R-Report and A-Appendix
Indicator StatusLocation 
R/APage
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
1.1 R4 -7
1.2 R & A 2-3
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
2.1 RC over
2.2 A
2.3 A
2.4 R & A
2.5 A
2.6 A
2.7 A
2.8 A
2.9 A
2.10 A
REPORT PARAMETERS
3.1 A
3.2 A
3.3 A
3.4 A
3.5 R & A 2-3
3.6 R & A 11, 21, 34-35
3.7 A
3.8 R & A 29
3.9 A
3.10 A
3.11 A
3.12 R3 6-37
3.13 AIndicator StatusLocation 
R/APage
GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS
4.1 A
4.2 A
4.3 A
4.4 A
4.5 A
4.6 A
4.7 A
4.8 R & A 1, 19-21, 24
4.9 A
4.10 A
4.11 A
4.12 R & A 2-3
4.13 A
4.14 A
4.15 A
4.16 A
4.17 A
DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMA)
DMA EC A
DMA EN R & A 2,5-8, 9-16, 27-31
DMA LA R & A 19-22
DMA HR R & A 17, 24, 33-35
DMA SO R & A 2, 24, 25, 33-35
DMA PR A
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   36 09/06/2014   14:58   CONSTELLIUM37
Indicator StatusLocation 
R/APage
ECONOMIC
EC1 A
EC2 A
EC3 A
EC4 A
EC5 A
EC6 A
EC7 A
EC8 A
EC9 A
ENVIRONMENTAL
EN1 A
EN2 A
EN3 A
EN4 A
EN5 R & A 27-29
EN6 R & A 9-16
EN7 A
EN8 A
EN9 R & A 31
EN10  A
EN11 A
EN12 A
EN13 A
EN14 A
EN15 A
EN16 A
EN17 A
EN18 R2 7-29
EN19 A
EN20 A
EN21 A
EN22 R & A 29, 30
EN23 A
EN24 A
EN25 A
EN26 R & A 9-13, 26-31
EN27 R & A 9-13, 30
EN28 A
EN29 A
EN30 A
LABOR PRACTICES
LA 1 A
LA2 A
LA3 AIndicator StatusLocation 
R/APage
LA4 A
LA5 A
LA6 A
LA7 R & A 19-22
LA8 A
LA9 A
LA 10 A
LA 1 1 A
LA 12 A
LA 13 A
LA 14 A
LA 15 A
HUMAN RIGHTS
HR1 A
HR2 A
HR3 A
HR4 A
HR5 A
HR6 A
HR7 A
HR8 R & A 24
HR9  not material A
HR10 A
HR11 A
SOCIETY
SO1 R2 5
SO2 A
SO3 R & A 24
S04  A
SO5 A
SO6 A
SO7 A
SO8 A
SO9 A
SO10 A
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
PR1 R1 4-15
PR2 A
PR3 A
PR4 A
PR5 A
PR6 R & A 26
PR7 A
PR8 A
PR9 A
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   37 09/06/2014   14:58   SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 2013Operational Headquarters 
Forward-looking 
statements
www.constellium.comTupolevlaan 41-61
1119 NW, Schiphol-RijkThe Netherlands
Phone: +31 20 654 9780830 Third Avenue, 
9th ﬂ  oor
New York, NY 10022United States
Phone: +1 212 675 5026Washington Plaza
40-44, rue Washington75008 ParisFrance
Phone: +33 1 73 01 46 00Max Hoegger-Strasse 6
8048 ZurichSwitzerland
Phone: +41 44 438 66 00This report contains statements that relate to future events 
and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those statements containing such words as “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “scheduled,” “should,” “could,” “will,” or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reﬂ  ect 
Constellium’s expectations, assumptions or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 20-F, and described from time to time in subsequent reports, ﬁ  led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Constellium disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
Head Ofﬁ  ce
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   38 09/06/2014   14:58This report was released in May 2014. 
Coordination: Corporate Communications Department and Sustainability Council.Concept: All Contents — Design and production: All ContentsEditorial: Trevor Huggins (English Service) and Sam DaviesPrinting: PDI — This document was printed with plant-based inks, on paper produced from trees grown in sustainably-managed forests.Photo credits: A. Doyen, G. Uféras, P. Verzone / Vu, iStock, Every Can Counts.
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   39 09/06/2014   14:58Sustainability at Constellium is based on clear 
commitments in four key areas – products, people, 
operations and governance – each of them backed 
by 12 concrete targets and associated metrics for 
monitoring performance. These commitments are 
set out in the company’s Sustainability Charter, 
which builds on the continuity of Constellium’s 
sustainability efforts over many years.
Recycling and innovation are the hallmarks of Constellium’s strategy for products, while safety performance is clearly the overriding concern for 
our people. Energy efficiency based on recognized 
management systems, along with significant 
improvement plans for waste are the main priorities 
for operations. Our action on governance involves partnerships with suppliers, customers, industry 
associations and multi-stakeholder initiatives – the 
company is clear about the need for transparency 
over the impact of its activities. 
 
Given its importance for every company, delivering 
customer satisfaction is woven into our actions in 
all four of these areas. 
Constellium’s ambition is to develop its  sustainability agenda through teamwork, both 
internally and with its external partners. With this 
collective effort, we can achieve our goal of being 
“Altogether more sustainable”.DRIVING THE  
SUSTAINABILITY  
AGENDA
D14051-Rapport_Annuel_2013-Sustainability-FLIP.indd   40 09/06/2014   14:58