REVEALING  
OUR  
RESILIENCEBUSINESS AND  
SUSTAINABILITY   
PERFORMANCE  
REPORT 2020Revealing  
our Resilience
04 CEO Interview
07 A Global Sector Leader
08  Creating Value Throughout  
the Lifecycle of Aluminium
10 CFO Interview
11 Business Units
12 Pursuing a Comprehensive Strategy
13 Our Values
16 Governance
22  Focusing on Environment, Health,  
and Safety (EHS)
24 Manufacturing Excellence
Business  
Report
28 Packaging
30 Automotive
34 Aerospace
36 Transportation, Industry, and DefenseSustainabilit y  
Report
40 Sustainability Highlights
42  Assessing Material  
Sustainability Risks
44  Staying One Step Ahead of Market  
Regulatory Changes
45  Adjusting Our Targets and Defining  
Future Perspectives
46 Our Sustainability Targets for 2021
47  Analyzing Environmental Impacts 
with Life Cycle Assessments
48  Developing Products  
with Envrionmental Benefits
50 Championing Recycling
52 Prioritizing Customer Satisfaction
54  Attracting, Engaging, and Retaining  
the Best People
56 Gender Diversity
58 Supporting Our Local Communities
59 Respecting Human Rights
61 Limiting Landfilled Waste
62  Curtailing Energy Use  
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions
65  Minimizing Air Emissions  
and Managing Water
66  Insisting Upon Sustainable  
Procurement
68  Actively Supporting the Aluminium  
Stewardship InitiativePer formance  
Report
70 Financial Statements
74 Sustainability Performance
82 GRI 
88 Memberships
89 Report of the Independent Third Party
Constellium’s non-ﬁnancial performance statement (“déclaration de performance extra-ﬁnancière”), in -
cluded in this report (as speciﬁed on page 74), was veriﬁed by an independent third party, Pricewaterhouse -
Coopers Audit. PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit verified compliance of our statement with the provisions of the 
French Commercial Code (article R. 225-105), along with the fairness of the information provided in our state -
ment, such as key performance indicators and measures taken to address risks (article R. 225-105 I, 3, and II of 
the French Commercial Code). The work of PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit was performed in accordance with the 
provisions of articles A. 225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, determining the conditions under which an 
independent third party performs its engagement, and with the professional guidance of the French Institute of 
Statutory Auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements, as well as with ISAE 3000 assurance engagements 
other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. The verification report of PricewaterhouseCoo -
pers Audit (included on page 89 of this report) describes in detail the verification work performed.The world has gone through  
a year of acute challenges, 
with a global pandemic  
and an economic downturn.  
The crisis fundamentally 
changed the way we live  
and work, the expectations  
of customers, and society  
at large.
Aluminium is a remarkably 
resilient and malleable 
material, adapting itself 
to an inﬁnite variety of 
needs. Over the past year, 
Constellium has proven 
itself to be resilient and 
adaptable, too. Our people 
have shown what they 
are made of, and taken 
strength from our core 
values. Together, we have 
developed short-term 
and long-term strategies 
to mitigate the crisis’ 
effects, remained open 
to new opportunities, and 
continued building the 
company of tomorrow on 
today’s solid foundations.REVEALING
OUR RESILIENCE       
Jean-Marc Germain,  
Chief Executive Officer“Thanks to the 
dedication of our 
employees, our sites 
never stopped 
production throughout 
the crisis.”
a stringent set of required safety procedures, 
including wearing masks, dividing and disin -
fecting work areas, enforcing social distancing, 
and distributing regular best practice updates. 
We continue to strive to provide our employees 
with the safest possible work environment. 
We were also committed to meeting the demand 
of our customers. This was critical, as we supply 
essential industries such as the food and bever -
age, transportation, and healthcare industries. 
Thanks to the dedication of our employees, our 
sites never stopped production throughout the 
crisis, unless our own customers did. 
In these uncertain times, we tried to stay 
ahead of the crisis. We developed business 
continuity plans as early as February to secure 
our operations, and we made sure to maintain 
a strong financial position. As a result, our 
team was in a position to react quickly at the 
early stages of the pandemic by aggressively 
cutting costs, reducing capital expenditures, 
and significantly increasing our liquidity. Out of 
an abundance of caution, we secured several 
State-sponsored loans in Europe. We were able 
to remain solidly Free Cash Flow positive for the 
second consecutive year. We unfortunately had 
to reduce our workforce but strived to preserve 
jobs as much as possible.
Overall, I believe that this crisis brought 
out the best of Constellium. Our employees demonstrated courage and commitment, 
served our customers and ensured continuity 
of our business. The road to normalcy is still 
long and bumpy, but we managed to build a 
stronger , more resilient Constellium to face the 
challenges and seize the opportunities that may 
come. 
Did the crisis change your priorities in 
terms of sustainability?
Sustainability is part of the bedrock of our busi -
ness and our strategy, which was only strength -
ened as a result of the crisis. We must create 
value for our shareholders and we must be 
sustainable—value creation and sustainability 
are intrinsically linked for our long term and our 
short term growth. Our sustainability commit -
ment and initiatives respond to our customers’ 
and society’s demands for sustainable products 
and solutions. Our goal is to minimize our impact 
on the environment. As one important step in 
our efforts against climate change, we have 
committed to cut greenhouse gas emissions 
by 25% in 2025 vs. 2015, per ton of aluminium 
sold, by reducing our energy consumption and 
improving our energy mix towards renewables. 
In February 2021, we demonstrated our com -
mitment by issuing a "green bond" linked to INTERVIEW
How did Constellium manage 
through the Covid-19 crisis?
I am very proud of how Constellium handled 
this unprecedented challenge. We have 
demonstrated our resilience and resource -
fulness as our business has gone through 
incredibly disruptive times. 
Our first focus was the safety of our 
 employees, their families, and our com -
munities. Constellium’s teams rolled out 
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 04our recycling capacity and to our CO2 emission 
reduction targets, and we are proud to be a pio -
neer in the metals sector.
Unfortunately , the unforeseen consequences of 
the Covid-19 crisis prevented us from reaching 
our energy efficiency targets for 2020, which is 
why we decided to maintain the same targets 
for 2021. We will continue to develop a multi -
pronged approach to get back on track. 
We have also made good progress on other 
targets. Safety remains our number one priority, 
and we reduced our Recordable Case Rate(1) 
again in 2020, achieving our lowest Recordable 
Injury Rate ever. We met our target for landfilled 
production waste, with a 33% reduction versus 
2015, thanks to the successful implementation 
of recycling programs, especially in the U.S. 
I'm impressed by the progress made by all our 
sites worldwide. We started a diversity, equity, 
and inclusion (DEI) program and continued our 
community engagement initiatives worldwide. 
Our commitment and progress have been 
recognized. In June, Constellium received a 
Platinum rating from EcoVadis, the agency’s 
highest rating, which positions us in the top 
1% of companies assessed worldwide. We 
improved our CDP rating to B and kept our AA 
ranking from MSCI. We achieved Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative (ASI) certifications for 
our Singen and Neuf-Brisach plants, as well as 
for our downstream operations in Dahenfeld 
and Gottmadingen, allowing us to provide 
independently certified sustainable products to 
our customers. Constellium is in the fortunate 
position of benefitting from the inherent 
attributes of aluminium, a light but strong metal 
that is fully and easily recyclable. 
These advantages can be seen in our daily lives. 
Aluminium cans, the world’s most recycled 
beverage container, are far and away the 
preferred package for new product launches, 
with shop shelves full of canned craft beers, 
teas, and seltzers. Electric vehicles, which have 
high aluminium intensity to increase range, are 
becoming increasingly common on the roads. 
With the growing societal focus on reducing 
emissions, aluminium will play a critical role 
in lightweighting the transportation industry, 
whether automobiles, planes, trains, or trucks. 
Sustainability will be a key topic over the next decade and we want to continue to be a leader. 
Our Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) 
strategy and roadmap for 2030 are taking shape, 
with initiatives to include offering additional 
responsible products, increasing recycling, and 
reducing emissions and waste. I believe that 
this is an opportunity not only to meet societal 
expectations and play our part in the fight against 
climate change, but also to add more value for our 
customers, our business, and our shareholders. 
The packaging market has always been 
resilient. Has it also become a growth 
market? 
Yes, the packaging market is an exciting 
growth market with long-term, secular growth 
tailwinds. This is quite a change for this market, 
as companies and consumers understand 
more and more the sustainability benefits of 
the aluminium beverage can. Market growth is 
being driven by the end consumer , as recycling 
and reducing plastic waste become societal 
priorities. The aluminium can has incredible 
inherent advantages, including being infinitely 
recyclable, and will stand out as the preferred 
packaging material. 
Our customers have announced significant 
investments in new can lines, which should 
drive incremental demand for cansheet in the 
years to come. We are committed to helping 
our customers deliver on this secular growth. 
For example, our plant at Muscle Shoals 
produced record cansheet volume in 2020, and 
we expect to deliver on further debottlenecking 
opportunities in the coming years. 
Do you continue to see growth for the 
automotive market? 
Automotive continues to offer great opportu -
nities for the aluminium industry . The automotive 
market will need to continue to lightweight 
to meet regulations aimed at increasing fuel 
efficiency and reducing emissions. Hybrid and 
electric vehicles are increasing their share of the 
fleet. These vehicles are aluminium intensive, 
given the importance of lightweighting to (1) Our Recordable Case Rate measures the 
number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time 
injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical 
treatments per one million hours worked, 
including by our contractors. COMMITMENT TO THE 
UNITED NATIONS 
GLOBAL COMPACT
For the ninth consecutive year 
we support the T en Principles 
of the United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC) in the areas 
of human rights, labor, 
environment, and anti-
corruption. 
“
As an important 
step in doing 
our part in the 
ﬁght against 
climate change, 
we have 
committed to 
cut greenhouse 
gas emissions 
by 25% in 2025 
vs. 2015, per ton 
of aluminium 
sold.”
05 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020achieve their range objectives. 
Our unique footprint in both auto sheet and 
extrusions provides a strong base to benefit 
from the industry's shift to aluminium. 
How do you see the future of the 
aerospace market? 
Aerospace is a difficult market right now 
with the continuing effects of the Covid-19 
pandemic. Aerospace OEMs have reduced 
build rates and the supply chain is destock -
ing. We expect these effects will last at least 
through the first half of 2021. However, there 
are reasons for optimism. The Boeing 737  MAX 
was recertified and is now flying again. The  
increasing availability of a Covid-19 vaccine, 
and the improvement in therapeutic solu -
tions, should eventually result in a return to 
normalcy. People seem eager to travel again, 
once they feel safe to do so. These elements 
give us confidence that there is a constructive  
medium- and long-term outlook for the aero -
space market. In addition, we expect aluminium  
to remain the material of choice for OEMs. Our 
10-year contract with Airbus, which we signed 
early in 2020, validated this and positions us 
very well for future growth with our largest 
aerospace customer. 
Has the Covid-19 crisis changed your 
strategy? 
Our strategic pillars have not changed. They helped us grow our business and improve 
our financial situation before the Covid-19 
crisis, and they guided our mitigation strategy 
throughout it. I am very proud of how our team 
remained steadfastly focused on the execu -
tion of our strategy despite the distractions 
and limitations forced on us by the situation. 
We will continue to focus on high-value added 
products, working closely with our customers, 
leveraging our Manufacturing Excellence pro -
gram to optimize the utilization of our assets, 
harvesting returns from our investments, and 
increasing our financial flexibility. Importantly, 
our sustainability roadmap is integrated into 
each of these strategic pillars. Our new com -
pany-wide transformational program, Horizon 
2022, will help us focus on these key levers to 
accelerate the execution of our strategy. 
When will you be reinstating long-term 
guidance?
Guidance is an important way for us and our 
investors to measure our performance. We 
take the responsibility of issuing guidance 
very seriously. However, we need to have 
sufficient visibility in our end markets before 
we can confidently provide it.
Currently , there remains too much uncertainty 
with the ongoing pandemic, the trajectory of 
economic recovery , and the level of demand 
from the aerospace market. We look forward 
to the day, hopefully in the not too distant 
future, when we will be able to provide long-
term guidance again. What are your priorities for 2021? 
My first priority remains the health and safety 
of our employees. We must remain vigilant as 
the pandemic continues to affect our commu -
nities. While we prioritize health measures to 
fight the pandemic, we continue with our key 
safety initiatives. We are currently in year three 
of our Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) pro -
gram and have realized a significant decline 
in recordable and serious injuries. We also 
implemented “Caring for Each Other, ” a train -
ing program to learn how to speak up about 
potentially unsafe behavior. 
Our 2030 sustainability roadmap is another 
strategic priority for 2021. It includes an ambi -
tious climate strategy , in accordance with the 
Paris Agreement. This will be a holistic proj -
ect, involving all aspects of our company . I am 
looking forward to introducing aggressive but 
achievable targets to propel our sustainability 
journey forward. 
Continuing to deliver on our strategy is 
essential, and our Horizon 2022 initiative will 
facilitate its execution by focusing on a few key 
levers that will bring immediate results.
Operational excellence is one of these levers, 
and we will continue to run our plants safely 
and efficiently in 2021, as we have done in 
2020. Similarly, our commitment to capital 
discipline, Free Cash Flow generation, and 
deleveraging remain unchanged and will be 
another focus of our Horizon 2022 project.  
Lastly, we will continue our diversity, equity, 
and inclusion program to promote a safe and 
inclusive environment where everyone can 
contribute and thrive. 
I am very excited about our opportunities, 
as we deliver on our plan while taking full 
advantage of the inherent sustainability 
attributes of aluminium. “ We protected our 
employees, served our 
customers, and 
ensured the continuity 
of our business.”
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 06REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA(1)EMPLOYEES
€4.9B €465M ~12,000   France
   United States
   Germany   Eastern Europe and 
other regions
   Switzerland
21%10%6%A GLOBAL SECTOR LEADER
27%36%
(1) Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure. ” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income, ” see the 20-F form.  Manufacturing sites         R&D centers       -       Map not to scale  
5.7
20185.9
4.9
2019 2020498
2018562
465
2019 2020- 17 %- 17 %
07 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020CREATING VALUE   
THROUGHOUT THE LIFE  
CYCLE OF ALUMINIUMOUR ROLE
RECYCLINGWe recycle scrap from our 
processes, our customers’ 
processes, and at the end of a 
product’s life. We seek to im -
prove recycling through part -
nerships with stakeholders, 
since aluminium can be end -
lessly recycled and retain its 
material properties. We add other metals to molten 
aluminium to create custom -
ized alloys, and cast them 
into molded products, ingots, 
billets, and slabs. We extrude 
billets to make products such 
as Crash Management Sys -
tems. We roll slabs into plates, 
sheets, and coils, to be used 
for cans, car hoods, airplane 
wings, and more.CASTING,   
ROLLING, AND   
EXTRUSIONEXTRACTING,  
REFINING, AND  
SMEL TING
To produce the world’s most 
widely used non-ferrous met -
al, mined bauxite is refined 
into alumina, then pure alu -
minium is extracted via the 
Hall-Héroult electrochemical 
process.2
61
Our contribution to the aluminium value chain  
is shown in blueExperts at our C-TEC Technol -
ogy Center , Plymouth hub, and 
Brunel University T echnology 
Center work with our cus -
tomers to design and develop 
innovative and sustainable 
aluminium solutions. 
Our longstanding customers, 
primarily in the aerospace, 
packaging, and automotive 
sectors, use our products and 
solutions in a range of appli -
cations for improved strength, 
durability, lightness, and re -
duced fuel consumption.
Aluminium recycling makes 
good economic and ecologi -
cal sense. Our facilities have 
stringent procedures for  the 
efﬁcient collection and sorting 
of end-of-life scrap, which is 
crucial for effective recycling. 
We offer similar services to cus -
tomers.PRODUCT   
DESIGN AND   
MANUFACTURING
COLLECTING   
AND SORTINGPRODUCT  
USE
543
Peter R. Matt,  
Executive Vice President  
and Chief Financial OfficerFrom a ﬁnancial perspective, how did 
Constellium withstand the Covid-19 
crisis? 
First and foremost, our thoughts go out to each 
and every person who has been affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. While this public health 
crisis created the worst economic recession 
any of us has ever seen, I am incredibly proud 
of the Constellium team’s swift and decisive  
actions to protect our people and our business. 
At the early stages of the pandemic, we proac -
tively increased our liquidity to over €1  billion 
as an insurance policy of sorts. This level of  
liquidity provided much-needed comfort to our 
partners—whether investors, bankers, em -
ployees, or customers—in the staying power 
of Constellium. I want to especially thank our 
banking partners and the government officials 
that helped us to achieve this critical mile -
stone. This liquidity, together with the strong 
financial performance of our businesses,  
increased market confidence and enabled us 
to successfully refinance our near-term bond 
maturity with our lowest coupon dollar bond 
ever, despite the crisis. 
I cannot say enough about the team’s focus 
on costs throughout the crisis. This vigilance  
enabled us to generate €157 million of positive 
Free Cash Flow in 2020, our second consecu -
tive year of Free Cash Flow. This strong perfor -
mance would not have been possible without 
an intense and consistent focus on reducing 
cost, both in our plants and at our corporate 
offices. Our strong cost performance in 2020 
makes me even more excited about the poten -
tial of our Horizon 2022 project. 
Overall, I am very proud of Constellium’s finan -
cial performance in 2020. I firmly believe that 
this crisis has proved our mettle and that Con -
stellium is a stronger company for it.  Can you tell us more about your Horizon 
2022 initiative?
Our successor program to the very success -
ful Project 2019, Horizon 2022 is a strategic 
initiative that will support our goal of making 
Constellium operationally, strategically, and 
financially world-class. 
Rather than going after many different small 
projects as we did in Project 2019, we have 
identified a handful of strategic pillars. These 
pillars contain projects that will require time 
to execute, but carry huge potential. For  
example, metal represents our largest cost 
and a substantial opportunity. Reducing yield 
loss during our manufacturing processes or 
increasing the use of recycled material can 
result in material cost savings. 
With a total cost savings target of €75  million, 
I expect Horizon 2022 to be a meaningful con -
tributor to our future financial performance. 
What are your priorities for Free Cash 
Flow deployment?
First of all, I would like to reiterate how proud 
I am of the approximately €330  million of Free 
Cash Flow that Constellium generated over the 
past two years. This is an incredible accom -
plishment. We remain steadfastly focused on 
consistent Free Cash Flow generation. 
 Our top priority for Free Cash Flow deploy -
ment remains unchanged – deleveraging our 
balance sheet through debt reduction. We are 
committed to achieving our leverage target of 
2.5x. Once we are further along in our delever -
aging journey, I look forward to making capital 
returns to shareholders a priority for capital 
allocation.INTERVIEW
“
We generated  
€157 million of 
Free Cash Flow in 
2020, our second 
consecutive year 
of positive Free 
Cash Flow.”
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 10(1) Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure. ” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income, ” see the 20-F form.PACKAGING AND AUTOMOTIVE  
ROLLED PRODUCTS
Provides aluminium sheets and coils for packaging applications 
(beverage and food cans, closures, foilstock, cosmetics), 
specialty products (functional surfaces and industry products), 
as well as automotive solutions, including Auto Body Sheet. In 
addition, the business unit recycles end-of-life products, such as 
used beverage cans.
RECYCLING ROLLED  
PRODUCTSREVENUE
(in millions of euros)ADJUSTED EBITDA(1)
(in millions of euros)
REVENUE
(in millions of euros)ADJUSTED EBITDA(1)
(in millions of euros)
AUTOMOTIVE STRUCTURES AND INDUSTRY 
Provides advanced solutions for the global automotive 
industry, including Crash Management Systems (CMS), 
structural components, battery enclosures, and other safety 
parts and extrusions. This business unit also manufactures a 
wide range of hard and soft alloy extrusions, as well as large 
proﬁles for road and rail transportation, energy, and other 
industrial applications.
AUTOMOTIVE 
COMPONENTSEXTRUDED  
PRODUCTSADJUSTED EBITDA(1)
(in millions of euros)REVENUE
(in millions of euros)AEROSPACE AND TRANSPORTATION 
Provides technologically advanced aluminium alloys with 
wide applications across the global aerospace, transportation, 
industry, and defense sectors. This business unit offers a wide 
range of products including plates, sheets, extrusions, and 
precision sand castings. Aerospace and Transportation also 
provides tailored solutions and value-added services to its 
customers, such as pre-machining and customer scrap recycling.
PLATES ROLLED  
PRODUCTS
EXTRUDED  
PRODUCTSRECYCLING3,059
20183, 149
2,734
2019 2020243
2018273291
2019 2020
1,389
20181,462
1,025
2019 2020152
2018204
106
2019 2020
125
2018106
88
2019 20201,290
20181,351
1, 167
2019 2020
11 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Our six strategic pillars
We are committed to building a safe and 
sustainable company. This means reduc -
ing our emissions and our waste, invest -
ing in our people, supporting our com -
munities, adhering to sound governance 
principles, developing, manufacturing and 
promoting products that are sustainable 
for the benefit of our customers and end 
consumers, and creating shareholder val -
ue. Our goal is to become the safest and 
the most exciting company in our industry. 
To achieve these objectives, we have built 
a business strategy centered around six 
core principles:
1. Focus on High Value-added and 
Responsible Products
We are primarily focused on our three 
strategic end-markets—packaging, aero -
space and automotive—where we be -
lieve that we can differentiate ourselves 
through our high value-added and spe -
cialty products. We believe our differenti -
ated products provide significant benefits 
to our customers in many areas, such as 
weight reduction, and contribute to their 
objective of reducing carbon emissions. 
We intend to continue to invest in our R&D 
and technological capabilities and devel -
op a high value-added and responsible 
product portfolio.
2. Increase Customer Connectivity
We regard our relationships with our cus -
tomers as partnerships in which we work 
closely together to leverage our unique 
knowledge of the attributes of alumini -
um, our industry leading R&D and tech -
nological capabilities, and our integrated 
industrial platform to develop customized 
solutions. Our diverse teams globally aim 
to deepen our ties with our customers by 
consistently providing best-in-class qual -
ity, sustainable products and services, 
and joint product development projects
3. Optimize Margins and Asset 
Utilization Through Rigorous Product 
Portfolio Management
We are highly focused on maximizing the PURSUING A  
COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY
By making sustainability an intrinsic part of our business strategy,  
we are confident of reaching our goals.
throughput of our facilities to increase 
the tons per machine hour and profitabil -
ity per machine hour. We believe there are 
significant opportunities to do so, through 
rigorous focus on the products we choose 
to make and optimizing the throughput of 
these products in our facilities. We also 
intend to continue to increase our recy -
cling activities, which will result in more 
responsible, sustainable and profitable 
products.
4. Strictly Control Cost, Continuously 
Improve and Manage Resources 
Responsibly
We believe that there are significant op -
portunities to reduce our operating costs 
and improve our operations by implement -
ing manufacturing excellence initiatives, 
metal management programs and other 
cost, energy reduction, waste, and wa -
ter management initiatives. In addition, 
we believe it is critical to continuously 
focus on responsible resource manage -
ment, including minimizing energy and 
water usage, maximizing scrap input, op -
timizing capital allocation, and efficiently 
managing other resources available to the 
Company.
5. Manage Capital Through a Disciplined 
Approach and Increase Financial 
Flexibility
We have invested capital in a number of 
attractive growth opportunities to en -
hance our production capabilities, prod -
uct offering and sustainability objectives. 
We are highly focused on realizing their 
expected contributions to our earnings, 
manufacturing capabilities, and corporate 
profile. In addition, we are highly focused 
on increasing our financial flexibility to 
reduce our debt. We believe having in -
creased financial flexibility is critical to 
achieving our long-term objective of in -
vesting in our people and our operations.
6. Commit to Our People and Communities
We believe our people are among the 
best in the industry; this is a competitive 
strength which allows us to be a leader in 
our industry.  We strive to promote a safe and inclusive environment where every -
one is valued, can contribute, and thrive. 
Lastly, we strive to be socially responsible 
operators in our communities.
 
Sustainability is key
Sustainability is integral to these six pil -
lars. Our EHS FIRST  policy includes focus -
ing on safety, engaging our people, and 
reducing the impact of our operations. 
Our strategically selected markets are 
those where aluminium brings clear en -
vironmental benefits. Product leadership 
requires good environmental steward -
ship, including metal recycling. Customer 
service excellence also means satisfying 
sustainability concerns. By evaluating 
sustainability risks and opportunities in 
our investments, we optimize our margins 
and asset utilization. And our commitment 
to our people and communities is reflect -
ed in our safety and training programs, 
in our Diversity and Inclusion Initiative, 
and in our Constellium CARES commu -
nity projects. Lastly, our focus on capital 
discipline and shareholder value creation 
allows us to generate the returns and cash 
flows needed to sustain an attractive fu -
ture for our Company, our employees, and 
our communities.
Constellium’s strategy extends to our sup -
ply chain. This is why we are a founding 
member of the Aluminium Stewardship 
Initiative (ASI), a global, multi-stakehold -
er, nonprofit, standards-setting, and cer -
tification organization. Following an entire 
value chain approach, ASI works towards 
responsible production, sourcing, and 
stewardship of aluminium. We actively 
supported the preparation of its certifi -
cation program, including the launch of 
its Performance and Chain of Custody 
Standards in 2017 , and are now actively 
participating in the revision process.
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 12At Constellium, all our employees share and abide 
by a common set of values that everyone puts into 
practice every day. OUR VALUES
COLLABORATION
We work together, and 
with our customers 
and stakeholders, 
to identify and solve 
problems and to 
bring new ideas and 
perspectives. TRANSPARENCY
We make sure all 
our employees have 
the information they 
need to do their job, 
and we communicate 
openly and clearly to 
our customers and 
other stakeholders.SAFETY
Safety is everyone’s responsibility, 
whatever their role. We constantly 
improve our safety practices and train 
our employees to always follow safety 
instructions and rules, and to speak up 
whenever they see unsafe behavior. 
TRUST
Trust is the basis 
of our approach 
to business. This 
means creating 
an environment 
where everyone 
can exchange views 
and collaborate 
effectively . EMPOWERMENT
We trust and enable 
employees, at all levels, 
to make decisions and be 
accountable for them. 
RESPECT
Respect is the foundation 
of every relationship. We 
respect and value the 
diversity of people that 
make up our business, and 
we treat everyone fairly . 
13 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020At the very beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, 
Alsace was one of the hardest hit regions in 
France. At the Neuf-Brisach plant, my 1,500 
co-workers and I found ourselves on the front lines. 
The situation was troubling, but Constellium took 
it seriously . I work as a Safety Engineer , and helped 
put rigorous sanitary measures in place so that our 
employees could come to work under the safest 
possible conditions.
We all knew how important it was to keep the 
plant running. Neuf-Brisach produces aluminium 
coils and sheets for food and beverage cans, 
crucial at a time when people were stocking up 
on supermarket supplies. It’s like the hot rolling 
shop—you can’t just start and stop operations, 
they must be continuous.  
We worked with health authorities and our in-
house doctor, who did an excellent job of clearly 
and efficiently adapting the government’s 
instructions to the particular context of our 
plant. Benchmarking our efforts against other 
businesses in the region, we developed measures 
that were even more stringent than the government 
recommendations. These were apparent the 
moment you stepped onsite. Every employee 
went straight to a checkpoint equipped with soap 
and disposable towels, then to the infirmary, 
where a nurse took our temperatures. There were 
disinfection kits at all our work stations, and the 
bathrooms, canteens, and lockers were regularly 
disinfected. As soon as a worker showed any 
symptoms, the medical services were alerted.
Many of our employees work close together, in 
the same ofﬁce or operating the same machines, 
so we set up social distancing protocols by 
reconﬁguring workstations and putting very clear 
markings on the ground. Seamstresses in Colmar 
sewed reusable cloth masks—certiﬁed by health 
authorities—for our plant workers. This was very 
reassuring—one employee said he felt safer at the 
factory than at the supermarket! In turn, the plant  I helped put 
rigorous sanitary 
measures in place so 
that our employees 
could come to 
work under the 
safest possible 
conditions.”
GILLES RISCHMANN
SAFETY ENGINEER  
NEUF-BRISACH, FRANCEdonated protective clothing and other supplies to 
hospitals, emergency workers, and nursing homes 
in the area. 
Constellium set up a web portal, Covid-19.
constellium.com, where we could get the latest 
news about the site or the general company . 
All 12,000 employees around the world, with or 
without a Constellium email address, could log on 
anywhere, in six different languages. We received 
several messages from our CEO, along with news 
about local concerns such as canteen access.
All of us came together in a relatively short time 
to make the plant a safe place to work—and we 
still managed to produce 90% of our normal food 
packaging output. One of our clients even wrote 
to thank the plant for its dedication throughout 
this difﬁcult time, which allowed them to keep the 
supermarket shelves stocked. Every one of us can 
be very proud of making this happen.  Benchmarking 
our efforts against 
other businesses 
in the region, we 
developed measures 
that were even 
more stringent than 
the government 
recommendations. 
These were apparent 
the moment you 
stepped onsite.”
GOVERNANCE
Director independence
We maintain a one-tier Board of Directors 
consisting of an Executive Director and 
Non-Executive Directors (each a “Director”). 
Under French law, there are no separate 
independence requirements for French 
companies whose shares are not listed 
on an EU-regulated market, so we defer to 
the NYSE requirements. As a foreign pri -
vate issuer under the NYSE rules, we are 
not required to have independent Directors 
on our Board, except to the extent that our 
audit committee is required to consist of 
independent Directors.
However, our Board has determined that, 
under current NYSE listing standards re -
garding independence, and taking into ac -
count any applicable committee standards, 
as of December  31, 2020, Messrs. Evans, Brandjes, Hartman, Maugis, Ormerod, 
Paschke, and Mmes. Walker, Brooks, and 
Frachet are deemed independent Directors. 
Under these standards, Mr. Germain is not 
deemed independent as he serves as the 
CEO of the Company.
Board meetings in 2020
The Board of Directors held five regular  
meetings and additional meetings to  
review Covid-19 related matters and strategic  
opportunities. During the height of the crisis, 
the Board was informed of developments 
and actions on a quasi weekly basis. During 
the regular meetings, the Board reviewed a 
number of matters, including: committee 
reports; reports from the CEO (including 
environmental, health and safety, markets, 
and competition) and from the CFO and 
the Group’s General Counsel; review and approval of the 2019 Annual Accounts and 
Form 20-F filing with the SEC; approval of 
the agenda items for the annual General 
Meeting of shareholders; approval of exec -
utive remuneration; reports from business 
units; review of Company strategy; R&D 
review; review of 2021 budget; finance re -
ports; presentation on investor perception, 
and Board and Committee's self-evaluation 
results. 
Governance and accountability  
Our company’s commitment to sustainabil -
ity influences the business decisions we 
make, how we treat people, and the ways 
in which we create value. To better under -
stand our stakeholders’ expectations, we 
regularly conduct materiality analyses. We 
actively work to deliver our sustainability 
targets. Every year, we track our perfor -
(1) As of December 31, 2020Audit Committee
Comprised of four 
Directors, held 10 
meetings in 2020.
• Lori A. Walker (Chair)
• Martha Brooks
• John Ormerod
• Werner P . PaschkeHuman Resources  
and Remuneration
Committee
Comprised of four 
Directors, held four 
meetings in 2020.
• Martha Brooks (Chair)
• Richard B. Evans
• Peter F. Hartman
• Guy MaugisNominating and 
Governance Committee
Comprised of four 
Directors, held seven 
meetings in 2020.
• Richard B. Evans 
(Chair)
• Michiel Brandjes
• John Ormerod
• Lori A. WalkerEnvironment, Health, 
and Safety Committee
Comprised of three 
Directors, held two 
meetings in 2020. 
• Guy Maugis (Chair)
• Michiel Brandjes
• Peter F. HartmanOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS' COMMITTEES (1)
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 16mance and ensure accurate and transpar -
ent disclosure of our sustainability data.
Our Sustainability Council 
Created in 2012, the Sustainability Council 
is a formal body with representatives from 
all parts of our business. These represen -
tatives are in charge of guiding Constel -
lium towards its sustainability goals. The 
Council meets three to four times a year. In 
2020, due to Covid-19, we held a series of  
one-on-one virtual meetings with individual 
Council members to discuss sustainability 
targets. Constellium’s sustainability team  
liaises the work of the Council with the  
Executive Committee throughout the year, 
both directly and through the Senior Vice 
President of Public Affairs, Communica -
tions, and Sustainability, who is an Ex -
ecutive Committee member. In 2020, the Sustainability Council delivered virtual 
presentations to the Executive Committee 
on the definition of a greenhouse gas emis -
sions reduction target and also on the 2030  
sustainability strategy work plan. 
Compliance Committee 
Constellium’s values have always served as 
the foundation of our company. Our busi -
ness ethics are embedded in all our de -
cision-making processes. Our Worldwide 
Code of Employees and Business Conduct 
governs the ways we operate and how we  
interact with our stakeholders, communi -
ties, and one another. Our Compliance Com -
mittee, chaired by the SVP and Chief Human 
Resources Officer, oversees training and 
communication of the Code as well as its 
monitoring, compliance, and enforcement. 
At the end of each quarter, the Committee reviews cases received via the Integrity 
Hotline or other channels, officially closing 
each case when there are no additional 
actions to be taken. Each review also pro -
vides an opportunity to study cases at a 
global level, so that we can mitigate any 
overall risks or concerns. The Committee’s 
quarterly reports to the Audit Committee 
include any material issues regarding the 
Constellium Policy on Responsible Sup -
ply Chain Management, the Human Rights 
Policy and Labor Practices, alleged cases of 
corruption or influence peddling, or alleged 
breaches of the General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR).
(2) In 2020, we had 68 cases where employees could not attend for exceptional reasons, including maternity and sick leave, retirement, and long-term disability .CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING
  Number of people targeted         Number of people trained 20171,362 1,362100% 
achieved
20181,5541,47795% 
achieved
20191,7531,70397% 
achieved
20201,7071,63996% 
achieved(2)
17 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Our policies
The following publicly available Group 
policies support our sustainability strategy:
Worldwide Code of Employee and 
Business Conduct
Our Worldwide Code of Employee and Busi -
ness Conduct sets out the standard of  
behavior we expect from our employees, and 
governs Constellium’s business actions. We 
updated the Code in 2019 to strengthen our 
standards for anti-corruption and respect of 
human rights and labor practices. The Code 
covers all Constellium employees and is 
subject to applicable local laws. Compliance 
with the Code is essential to preserving and 
enhancing our Company’s reputation as a  
responsible corporate citizen and, ultimately, 
to maximizing stakeholder value.
Sustainability Charter
The charter states our commitment to 
Proucts, People, Operations, and Governance.
Human Rights Policy  
and Labor Practice
Our human rights policy is aligned with the UN 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights and the Aluminium Stewardship Initia -
tive Performance Standard. We are working to 
strengthen our policies for the Company , our 
partners, and our suppliers.
Environmental Protection  
and Health and Safety (EHS) Policy
Our policy is defined through EHS FIRST,  
Constellium’s EHS Management System. 
Our system is described and documented 
in the EHS FIRST  policy and manual, and  
Constellium’s EHS Directives and Guidelines.Responsible Supply Chain 
Management Policy and Supplier 
Code of Conduct
Our Responsible Supply Chain Management 
Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct are 
aligned with the principles of the UN Global  
Compact, and apply to all our suppliers, 
consultants, contractors and agents. All of 
our suppliers are asked to sign our Supplier  
Code of Conduct. We ask key suppliers to 
perform a desktop-based assessment ev -
ery three years using the EcoVadis platform, 
and we perform an onsite workplace audit for  
locations or sectors identified at greater risk. 
Policy for Reporting Wrongdoings
(Whistleblower Policy)
This policy fosters an environment where 
employees can act without fear of retaliation 
by establishing procedures to encourage the 
reporting of wrongdoing or suspected wrong -
doing or irregularities of a financial, account -
ing, auditing, or banking nature in the Group, 
as well as violations of the Code of Conduct. 
To facilitate this reporting, we have estab -
lished an external hotline in all countries 
where we have operations, and in various 
languages.
Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) due diligence for 
mergers and acquisitions (M&A), as 
well as closure, decommissioning, 
and divestment processes
This policy sets out the principles for inte -
grating ESG risks and opportunities into our 
due diligence process for M&A, closures,  
decommissioning, and divestitures.
Insider Trading Policy
We have an insider trading policy which sets 
out the restrictions on trading in Constellium 
securities and the use of inside information.Communication and training 
We offer our employees training on sustain -
ability and on our Code of Conduct. Our in -
ternal and external communications teams 
are familiar with our sustainability challeng -
es, goals, and achievements, and help us to 
reach our goals through the engagement of 
our employees.
We launched an e-learning course on 
sustainability in 2019. In 2020, due  
to Covid-19, we modified our in-person sus -
tainability training for sales and purchas -
ing teams from physical courses to virtual 
training on demand. Additionally , in 2020 we 
created an e-learning course on our Code 
of Conduct. Our goal is to annually train all 
of our employees who have access to the 
e-learning course.
Our internal magazine, LIVE , is available to all 
employees, and communicates on different 
topics from our Code of Conduct. In 2020, 
it published articles on reducing landfilled 
waste as well as privacy and personal data 
protection.
Some of our sites conduct face-to-face 
training with employees who lack access to 
e-learning or our intranet. For example, in 
early 2020 at Neuf-Brisach, our Code of Con -
duct was presented in person to employees 
working on the shop floor, accompanied by 
weekly displays of each chapter on screens 
around the plant.
As for anti-trust and competition law, we  
provide an e-learning module to employees 
who deal with suppliers or customers, and 
have trained over 300 employees so far.
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 18John Ormerod 
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2014
Guy Maugis 
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since January 2011 
Werner P . Paschke
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of  
Directors since May 2013
Stéphanie Frachet
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of  
Directors since May 2018
Martha Brooks 
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2016
Jean-Marc Germain
Executive Director 
Executive Director of our Board 
of Directors since June 2016 
and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
since July 2016
Lori A. Walker
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2014Richard B. Evans  
Chairman 
Chairman of our Board  
since December 2012 and  
a member of our Board of  
Directors since January 2011Michiel Brandjes
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2014
Peter F . Hartman
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of   
Directors since June 2014BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the management of the Company, 
the general conduct of the Company’s business, and its corporate governance 
structure. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance to the 
Executive Director, who is entrusted with the day-to-day management of the Company.
19 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Jeremy Leach
Senior Vice President and 
Group General Counsel
Ingrid Joerg
President, Aerospace and 
Transportation business unit
Peter Basten
President, Packaging and 
Automotive Rolled Products 
business unit
Peter R. Matt
Executive Vice President  
and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Nicolas Brun 
Senior Vice President, Public 
Affairs, Communications,  
and Sustainability
Vittorio Rossetti
Vice President and 
Chief Information Ofﬁcer
Philippe Hoffmann 
President, Automotive  
Structures and Industry  
business unitJean-Marc Germain
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Jack Clark
Senior Vice President,  
Manufacturing Excellence  
and Chief Technical OfﬁcerThe Executive Committee focuses on strategy, financial management, commercial 
development, program execution, organizational evolution, and Group-wide policies. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Ryan Jurkovic
Senior Vice President and  
Chief Human Resources Ofﬁcer
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 20When I heard that Constellium was looking for 
women to work at the foundry three years 
ago, I immediately applied. At ﬁrst, I worked 
in the place where we sort recycled metal. After a 
year, when the chance to operate the bridge crane 
came up, my boss asked if I was interested and I said 
yes. 
No woman had ever done this job before. Of all my 
life experiences, the bridge crane has been the 
most challenging. I start each day by checking in 
with the furnaces, organizing the day’s production 
ﬂow, and then I go up into the crane. There are ﬁve 
melt furnaces that I operate, either removing big 
aluminium plates from the furnaces or installing 
tools in order to change plate formats. 
I spend each eight-hour shift alone in the crane, 10-
15 meters under the roof, moving from one furnace 
to another. It is very precise work, with a lot of 
responsibility—the plates weigh between three and 
nineteen tons and my colleagues are down below. If 
I’m not there to remove a plate, they can’t move ahead 
to launch a new cast. 
At first, the guys on the floor felt like the bridge 
crane was no place for a woman. With time they 
got to know me, and now it’s great. I know how to 
drive the crane, how to organize my work, and they 
tell me I’m more gentle and precise than other 
operators. There were few women in the foundry 
when I started, but now there are more and more 
on our team. I ﬁnd Constellium to be a very human 
company , and the only factory I’ve worked at where 
women can advance. Now my daughter works as a 
trainee here, too! No woman had 
ever done this job 
before. Of all my 
life experiences, 
the bridge crane 
has been the most 
challenging.”
ANNICK DUCHET,  
OPERATOR  
ISSOIRE, FRANCEOur challenges
Environmental protection, health, and safety 
(EHS) are our absolute priorities. While the na -
ture of our business creates certain risks for 
the environment, we do our best to minimize 
our footprint. Similarly , our industry requires 
materials, equipment, and processes that 
may pose risks to the health and safety of our 
employees, contractors, and visitors. Our goal 
is to achieve zero injuries and illnesses by in -
tegrating EHS into all aspects of our business. 
Constellium’s EHS management system is de -
scribed in our EHS FIRST  policy and manual, 
and our EHS Directives and Guidelines. 
Safety
Safety is our number one value at Constelli -
um, and at the heart of everything we do. Our 
Recordable Case Rate (RCR)(1) has improved 
significantly, from 3.31 in 2016 to 1.82 in 
2020, well below our 2020 target of 2.35. We 
reached our goal to reduce it by 10% year 
after year and our number of Serious Injury 
cases decreased to 2 vs. 7 in 2019. We will 
keep the same target of a 10% reduction in 
recordable injuries in 2021.
These achievements are the results of our 
employees' commitment to safety and of our 
global Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) pro -
gram. Since the program’s rollout in 2018, our 
sites have set up SIF teams to regularly iden -
tify risks with the greatest potential for serious 
injuries and to take action to mitigate them. 
We engage our leadership through our Safe -
ty Task Force, made up of members from our  
Executive Committee. Safety also depends 
on individual actions. In 2020, we launched FOCUSING ON ENVIRONMENT,
HEAL TH, AND SAFETY  
Constellium is resolute in our dedication to EHS. We constantly review our policies 
and practices to minimize our environmental impact, keep our employees and 
communities healthy, and guarantee the safety of people at our sites. 
“Caring for Each Other, ” a company-wide 
training program focused on the reasons for 
unsafe practices, peer-to-peer interaction, 
and speaking up when employees witness 
risky behavior. 
Environment
At site level, our main environmental actions 
and programs concern spill containment 
and countermeasures, hazardous sub -
stance management, reducing landfilled 
waste, improving energy efficiency, waste INTERVIEW  
LaDonna Smith, Group Sustainability  
and Safety Manager, on “Caring for Each Other”
Why “Caring for Each 
Other”? 
Behaviors are as critical 
as policies and proce -
dures when it comes 
to safety. We all have a 
responsibility to follow 
our Safety Rules, but 
also to speak up when 
they are not respected. As CEO Jean-Marc  
Germain notes, “In a 
world of critical risks, 
staying silent may kill. ”
What are the 
objectives  
of this program?
To understand the rea -
sons why we do not always intervene, learn 
how to voice our EHS 
concerns to others in a 
manner that shows we 
care, and practice our 
responses.
Concretely, how does 
it work? 
“Caring for Each Other” 
is a global, interactive, 
four-hour training 
program. All North 
American and European 
sites have rolled out the 
program, and we plan 
to train all our 12,000 
employees throughout 
2021.
and materials reuse and recycling, minimiz -
ing the impacts of air emissions, and water 
management (see pages  61-65).
Preventing environmental incidents
In 2019, we began tracking “environmental 
near misses”: any incident that could have 
had a negative environmental impact 
but did not. In 2020, we added to our 
preventive action plan the identification 
and investigation of “high-potential 
environmental near misses” and “high-
potential minor environmental incidents(2)” "Caring for each other" training  
at our Issoire plant, France
(1) Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours worked.
(2) Minor environmental incident: A one-time, localized environmental incident due to a lack or failure of control, resulting in minimal cost or consequences.CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 202022that could have resulted in major con-  
sequences.
Health
Responding to the Covid-19 crisis
Looking after the health of our employees, 
their families, and our communities has never 
been more critical than during the Covid-19 
pandemic. We have taken strict measures to 
protect our workers while allowing our sites to 
continue meeting the needs of our customers. 
In compliance with World Health Organization 
guidelines and local regulations, we imple -
mented quarantine procedures for confirmed cases and suspected exposures. Business 
travel was extremely limited and needed top 
management approval, and employees who 
could do so worked from home. 
Our sites established preventive controls 
to manage the risk of infection, including 
regularly disinfecting and partitioning work 
areas, updating information on best hygiene 
practices, wearing masks, enforcing social 
distancing practices, and strict policies 
for visitors, suppliers, and deliveries. We 
frequently review our hygiene and safety 
procedures. Each month, we conduct con -
ference calls with our sites, sharing good 
practices and updating our guidelines. We 
developed videos to promote safe behavior 
at work and home. 
Other health initiatives
We take a range of actions to prevent 
work-related diseases and promote em -
ployee health, including flu vaccinations, 
fitness classes, and eye testing. An increas -
ing number of sites are working to improve 
ergonomics, and some have programs to re -
duce noise levels or psycho-social risk. Most 
2021 TARGETS INDICATORS 2019 2020
Reduce our Recordable Case 
Rate by 10% per annum 
from  2016Recordable Case Rate  
and annual variation2.40
RCR, -8% compared to target1.82 
RCR, -22% compared to target
No more than four 
serious injuries a yearNumber of  
serious injuries7 
Serious injuries2 
Serious injuries  
Be in the industry’s top 
quartile for safety resultsRecordable Case Rate YESIndustry data is not yet available
Zero major(5) or signiﬁcant(6)  
environmental incidentsNumber of major  
or signiﬁcant incidents 0 0OUR RESUL TS
85% of our sites(3) have ISO  14001 certification (environmental management systems), while 85% of our employees(4)  
are covered by OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 certifications (occupational health and safety).sites have an Employee Assistance Program 
to support employees dealing with person -
al difficulties, and several provide support 
through training or team discussions on is -
sues such as addiction prevention. Health 
issues are covered in our company-wide 
newsletter and on our intranet. Plants have 
launched health campaigns on breast can -
cer awareness, Healthy Heart Month, smok -
ing cessation, weight loss, and more.
(3) Joint venture sites are excluded. (4) Employees at corporate offices and joint ventures are excluded. (5) An environmental incident is considered major when the total cost is 
greater than  2,500,000 USD and/or when the recovery from environmental impact requires more than a year. (6) An environmental incident is considered significant when the 
total cost is greater than 250,000 USD and/or when recovery from environmental impact requires longer than a month.
23 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Our Manufacturing Excellence team 
works with our plants and R&D centers 
throughout the year to achieve con -
tinuous improvements in our opera -
tions and produce top-quality goods 
as safely and efficiently as possible. 
EHS FIRST
Safety is the first priority for Constellium 
and the primary objective of our Manufac -
turing Excellence program (see page  22). 
Optimizing CapEx to make  
the most of our assets
Our Manufacturing Excellence program 
provided critical support to our plants 
throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, by 
prioritizing investments and efficiently 
implementing maintenance and asset  
integrity projects. Being as efficient as 
possible with our capital dollars enabled 
us to protect our business and preserve 
our financial flexibility.
Regular maintenance is vital to getting the 
most out of our assets. Our engineering 
team is moving from planned maintenance 
interventions to predictive maintenance, 
known as “condition-based monitoring. ” 
Condition-based monitoring uses tools, 
such as sensors, to detect equipment  
status. This new process predicts the best  
moment for maintenance stoppage and 
limits unexpected equipment downtime.
Our teams were also highly focused on  
optimizing equipment uptime, recovery , and 
mill speed. For example, the Manufacturing 
Excellence team worked with our  
Ravenswood facility to increase the capac -
ity and quality of the cold rolling mill. This MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE
Getting the greatest possible value out of our manufacturing assets  
is critical to the execution of our Company’s strategy.
SMARTMEL T
We are working on a project called “Smartmelt” to optimize the operation of our cast 
houses, the most energy-intensive aspect of our production process. Sensors monitor 
the furnaces’ status and temperature in real time, and a digital twin indicates to our 
operators how to work most efﬁciently and with the least energy consumption. 
“Smartmelt is like a GPS for the ovens, directing operators on the best route to take, ” 
says T echnology Leader Bruno Magnin. We are installing the system at Issoire, followed 
by Neuf-Brisach, then at the rest of our sites. 
AHEADD® —CONSTELLIUM’S NEW ALUMINIUM ADDITIVE  
MANUFACTURING POWDERS
Our Manufacturing 
Excellence team also 
works on developing and 
manufacturing innovative 
solutions that respond to 
the needs of our 
customers and use the 
latest technology . 
In 2020, Constellium developed AHEADD®, a 
new generation of high 
performance aluminium 
powders for additive 
manufacturing. 
Constellium ’s new 
powders are designed and 
tailored for a wide range of 
applications, including aerospace, motorsports, 
and defense. Aheadd® 
solutions bring unmatched 
thermal stability , and can 
replace titanium in 
selected applications to 
reduce weight and cost.
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 24VIRTUAL MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE
Our Manufacturing Excellence team travels extensively to our various sites  
to provide hands-on guidance and support. So when the Covid-19 pandemic put an 
abrupt halt to business travel, our team went virtual. Using real time technical data 
from equipment at the sites, stored in the cloud, our engineers were able to access 
detailed analyses of the data, assess issues, and test ideas for improvement.  
The team remotely analyzed reliability issues, helped manage scrap levels, and 
worked on recovery from thousands of miles away. 
MUSCLE SHOALS FACILITY 
RECEIVES ALABAMA 
LARGE MANUFACTURER 
OF THE YEAR AWARD
Our Manufacturing Excellence 
initiatives were rewarded in 2020 
when Muscle Shoals was 
honored as Alabama ’s 2020 
Large Manufacturer of the Year, 
in recognition ofthe plant's 
superior performance in 
operating excellence, 
continuous improvement, 
proﬁtable growth, customer 
focus, employee commitment, 
and investment in training and 
retraining employees.incremental capacity comes at an oppor -
tune time, with demand for sheets for the 
industrial market expected to grow in North 
America.
Driving “Horizon 22” 
Manufacturing Excellence will be a major 
contributor to our transformational “Hori -
zon 22” program. Improving how we man -
age metal, including our use of scrap, is one 
of the most effective ways to reduce costs. 
Considering we typically produce around 
1.5 million tons of aluminium per year, every 
percentage point of increased metal recov -
ery at our factories can translate into millions 
of dollars of savings. 
Our Manufacturing Excellence team monitors 
and compares the yield loss rate of each plant 
to industry rates and against our other plants. 
This process identifies best practices, which 
can then be implemented with close partner -
ship from our procurement team. For example, 
a cross-functional team, comprised of process, 
quality, production, commercial, supply chain, 
and finance, is working on developing a better 
plate recovery process. We are implementing 
some of the best practices developed at Issoire, 
which led to savings of €7  million.
Our cost reduction efforts are not limited to 
metal management. For example, in 2020, 
we focused on our furnaces and the tem -
perature-resistant bricks that line them. We 
now have guidelines for maximum efficiency
and have standardized oven design to  
increase the time between overhauls. These 
improvements in our furnace rebuilding 
program are resulting in a 20% increase in 
furnace life.Supporting our sustainability 
initiatives
By helping our plants become more ener -
gy efficient and generate less waste, our  
Manufacturing Excellence program also 
contributes to our sustainability journey. 
Energy efficiency is at the core of our sus -
tainability targets. All of our facilities are 
implementing action plans to address this 
critical issue. Our facility in Bowling Green 
received two awards for “Lowest Carbon 
Emissions” and “Most Improved Carbon 
Emissions” from the Tennessee Valley  
Authority , recognizing the plant’s impressive 
energy efficiency improvements since 2016. “Manufacturing 
Excellence is at the 
core of Constellium’s 
“Horizon 22” program, 
as we strive to make 
the most of our 
assets and ensure a 
high level of quality 
and reliability that 
is critical for our 
success. ”
Jack Clark,  
Senior Vice President, 
Manufacturing Excellence  
and Chief Technical Officer
25 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020M y PhD at Cambridge focused on Material  
Sciences—I considered chemistry but ma -
terials felt more “real, ” making products 
that people use, getting it out into the market. 
It’s always satisfying for me to have something 
tactile we’ve created as a team—I drive a Citroën 
that contains several of our alloys.
I arrived at Voreppe in 1991, when it was Pechiney, 
and spent six years at Neuf-Brisach starting up 
Auto Body Sheet before returning to R&D. My job 
changes constantly , there’s always something new 
with aluminium, and we have hundreds of ideas go -
ing on at any one time. Some of these led to current 
projects in areas like new sensors for digital man -
ufacturing, future recycling technologies, or addi -
tive manufacturing (3D printing). For a brand new 
product, we start by understanding the customer’s 
needs, then imagine every option for a solution, do -
ing affordable, rapid experiments to decide which 
ones to kill and which to pursue. 
Back in the late 1980s, we had a machine at 
Voreppe that sprayed powder-based aluminium, 
but there were technical difﬁculties and it got no -
where as a business. When additive manufactur -
ing started bubbling up, we knew immediately we 
could do something, because of the old work on 
powders, but it would be very expensive to develop 
alone. Then several customers asked us to collab -
orate on additive powder alloys, and we accepted 
with the condition that we would own the patents. 
We used a small machine designed for making 
costume jewelry to prototype up to 10 alloys a day, 
and then with partners printed up the best candi -
dates with small batches of powder. In this way, 
we did hundreds of experiments, and now have 
two market-ready alloys. Powder is like a startup 
business—it could go big or stay small, but there 
is lots of interest worldwide, and customers are 
using additive manufacturing for all sorts of new 
niches we didn’t even know existed. My job changes 
constantly , there’s 
always something 
new with aluminium, 
and we have 
hundreds of ideas 
going on at any  
one time.”
RAVI SHAHANI
INNOVATION CHAMPION
C-TEC VOREPPE, FRANCEBUSINESS  
REPORTAluminium is the ideal metal for an incredible range of purposes, playing a major role in our lighter, 
faster, and more sustainable world. Constellium makes advanced solutions for a wide range of 
applications, including beverage cans, cars, planes, space shuttles, trains, and much more. Our 
diverse portfolio, focused on high-value products, ensures that our business remains robust and 
resilient.PACKAGING
OUR PRODUCTS
We supply goods and solutions for every aspect of the 
market, from recycling to aluminium coils and sheets. 
Our products supply the following markets: beverage 
cans, food cans, bottle closures, flexible packaging, 
personal care aerosols, cosmetics packaging, and lux -
ury packaging for the perfume industry.
SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS
AB InBev • Amcor • Ardagh Group • Ball • Can-Pack • 
Crown • Coca-Cola Packaging is the bedrock of our portfolio, 
a recession-resilient and secular growth 
market. Constellium addresses every 
facet of the market, from aluminium coils 
and sheets to recycling. 40%
of our 2020 revenue 
came from the 
packaging market
Muscle Shoals, 
Alabama: One of our 
largest sites, with 
the fastest coating 
line and a world 
class beverage can 
recycling centerPACKAGING PLANTS
Neuf-Brisach, France:
Key positions in beverage 
canstock (body, end, and 
tab) and food canstock in 
Europe, along with a world-
class recycling center
Singen, Germany:   
Supplies closure stock to  
a global customer base
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 202028GETTING LIVE 
FEEDBACK FROM OUR 
CUSTOMERS 
The American company Crown 
Holdings, the world’s second 
largest producer of beverage 
cans, is one of Constellium’s 
key customers in the packaging 
industry. In February 2020, 
Constellium’s team visited the 
Crown plant in Conroe, Texas, 
to get direct feedback from 
this important customer while 
seeing how it turns a coil of 
aluminium into beverage cans. “The opportunity to visit our 
customers, to see their operations 
up close, and to better understand 
their needs and expectations, 
is critical to developing strong 
relationships and long-term 
business for our plants, ” says 
Raphael Thevenin, Vice President 
of Sales & Marketing, Global 
Packaging for Constellium 
P&ARP . “It was exciting to see our 
aluminium run on their machines 
and be transformed into a 
consumer product. The customer 
is very satisﬁed with our quality 
improvements. ”
BORN TO RECYCLE
Aluminium cans are the most 
recycled beverage containers, 
appearing back on the shelf in 
only 60 days. Plastic, on the other 
hand, is typically downcycled into 
products such as carpet ﬁbers (if 
it does not end up in the ocean). At 
Constellium, we have the capacity 
to recycle the equivalent of 
32 billion cans a year. MARKET TRENDS
  Mexico and Canada        United States         TOTAL NORTH AMERICAN ROLLED PRODUCTS
Consumption Can Stock (kt)
Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled Products 
Market Outlook November 2020.CAGR
+3.9%3,0001,200
800
400
0TOTAL EUROPEAN ROLLED PRODUCTS 
Consumption Can Stock (kt)
2019
20192020
20202021
20212022
20222024
20242025
20252023
2023Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled Products 
Market Outlook November 2020.  Eastern Europe           Western Europe  
Customer preference for aluminium cans translates 
into long-term, secular growth for the packaging 
market. An increased focus on sustainability con -
tinues to boost demand for aluminium cans as the 
eco-responsible alternative to plastics in beverage 
packaging. This trend is reinforced by regulations 
such as a European ban on certain single-use plas -
tics, going into effect in 2021. Many companies have 
also announced a reduction in plastic packaging 
and single-use plastics.
Our customers continue to invest in new can lines 
in both North America and Europe, which should 
drive incremental demand for can sheet for years 
to come.
Consumer preference is one of several tailwinds for 
the can sheet market. In Europe, demand is growing 
as aluminium becomes a substitute for steel.Visit of the Crown plant in Conroe, Texas, 
February 2020CAGR
+3.5%
2,000
1,000
29AUTOMOTIVE
OUR PRODUCTS
Constellium has long been a preferred partner for 
automakers, enabling them to engineer lighter, stron -
ger, and safer vehicles for higher performance, lower 
emissions, better fuel economy, and greater range. We 
offer a wide portfolio of advanced aluminium rolled 
products and extrusion-based structural components 
for closures and body structures, Crash Management 
Systems, battery enclosures, heat exchangers, and 
interior trim.
We are a unique partner to automakers, with a 
wide-ranging offer: material science, component proto -
typing and production, simulation and testing, product  
development, and closed-loop recycling. We cast our 
own high-technology automotive alloys in-house.
SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS
Audi • BMW • Ford • General Motors • Honda •  
Mercedes-Benz • Porsche • Renault Nissan • Stellantis •  
Toyota • Volkswagen27%
of our 2020 revenue 
came from the 
automotive market
Constellium aluminium drives advanced 
mobility . As a "Top 100" global automotive 
supplier(1), we supply most major 
automakers, and our products can be 
found in some of the most iconic vehicles 
on the road today: the BMW X5, Ford F-150 
and Super Duty, Mercedes-Benz C-Class, 
Audi A7 , and many others.
OUR AUTOMOTIVE PLANTS 
 20+ sites globally 
serving the 
automotive marketEXPANDING OUR CAPABILITIES AND OUR FOOTPRINT
A Global Auto Body 
Sheet capacity of 
300kt between our 
plants in Bowling 
Green, Kentucky; 
Neuf-Brisach, France; 
and Singen, GermanyA global network of 
automotive structures 
plants located close 
to our customers and 
supplied by extrusion 
plants in Europe and 
North America
(1) Source: Automotive News 2019
Map not to scale  CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 202030CONSTELLIUM IN  
THE HOOD (OF THE 
TOYOTA COROLLA)
After partnering together for 
many years to develop innovative 
aluminium solutions for Toyota’s 
latest models, the Japanese 
carmaker chose Constellium 
to be the sole supplier of Auto 
Body Sheet for the hood of its 
new Corolla, one of the world’s 
best-selling vehicles, produced at 
Toyota’s European manufacturing SINGEN WELCOMES A 
NEW EXTRUSION PRESS
In October, the Singen Extrusion 
plant celebrated the launch of a 
new extrusion press. Dedicated 
to the automotive industry, it will 
produce millions of proﬁles each 
year. Most of these will go to the MAKING BATTERY 
ENCLOSURES "ALIVE"
Constellium is leading a consortium 
of automotive manufacturers and 
suppliers to develop structural 
aluminium battery enclosures for 
electric vehicles at its University 
Technology Center (UTC) at Brunel 
University London. The £15 million 
ALIVE (Aluminium Intensive Vehicle 
Enclosures) project is funded in 
part by a grant from the Advanced 
Propulsion Centre (APC), as a com -
ponent of its low carbon emissions 
research program. Taking advantage 
of Constellium’s high-strength 
HSA6™ extrusion alloys and new 
manufacturing concepts, these 
battery enclosures will provide au -
tomakers with unparalleled design freedom and modularity, optimizing 
costs as they transition to vehicle 
electriﬁcation. Thanks to agile 
production cells, the new battery 
enclosure manufacturing system 
will provide scalability as volumes 
increase. Constellium is able to de -
sign and produce battery enclosures 
that provide the strength, crash re -
sistance, and weight savings needed 
in a structural component. Our 
HSA6™ alloys are 15 to 30% lighter 
than conventional alloys, and are 
closed-loop recyclable. The ALIVE 
project is expected to deliver its 
ﬁrst prototypes at the end of 2021.MARKET TRENDS
Automotive remains a secular growth market for al -
uminium, as carmakers are drawn to the material's 
lightweighting and energy absorption capacities. We 
anticipate this trend will gain momentum along with 
more stringent emission regulations and a higher 
demand for hybrid and electric vehicles. Electric 
vehicles are aluminium intensive, because light -
weighting is necessary in order for them to achieve 
their range objectives. The Covid-19 crisis signifi -
cantly disrupted customer demand in March and 
April 2020, due to lockdown measures in Europe and 
the U.S. However, automotive OEMs on both conti -
nents rapidly resumed production afterwards. Ac -
cording to CRU, global vehicle production is expect -
ed to grow by approximately 1.9% per annum from 
2019 to 2025, and the consumption of ABS between 
2019 and 2025 will grow 7.5% per annum in Europe, 
8% per annum in North America, and 21.50% per 
annum in China.Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled Products  
Market Outlook November 2020.
Source: CRU International Ltd. Global & Economic Outlook 
December 2020. 
Note: Represents both car and commercial vehicle production, 
including light trucksVEHICLE PRODUCTION FORECAST2025
20252019
20192020
20202021
20212022
20222023
20232024
2024
plants. This is the ﬁrst time that 
Toyota is using aluminium for this 
series on its European production 
lines. Constellium is providing 
Surfalex HS®, a high-tech alloy 
with exceptional surface quality, 
roping performance, and corrosion 
resistance, for the outer part of 
the hood.nearby Gottmadingen plant, to be 
transformed into bumper beams 
for Crash Management Systems, 
battery enclosure components, or 
side impact beams for customers 
across Europe. The two plants’ 
close cooperation and proximity to 
customers are great advantages 
for automakers and Constellium.
31  North America          Europe          China         RoW    
  Asia          Europe          North America         RoW    AUTOMOTIVE BODY SHEET FLAT ROLLED PRODUCTS  
Consumption (kt)
0
02,0003,000
1,000CAGR
+9.5%
CAGR
+1.9%
40,00060,00080,000
20,000100,000M y home is close to where I work, at the 
Constellium plant in Gottmadingen, in the 
South of Germany . As aluminium’s use in cars 
has increased, I have watched my factory expand 
several times. Today, there are 600 employees 
working here, and we build safety and structural 
parts for the automotive industry. As a process 
mechanic, I am responsible for the operation and 
the monitoring of the production lines, so I know 
ﬁrsthand how safe and reliable our products are. 
For example, Crash Management Systems (CMS) 
are among the most important parts of a vehicle’s 
design, conceived to save the lives of passengers 
and pedestrians in the event of a collision. They also 
protect key systems in the car , and can minimize the 
costs of repairs after a crash.
Aluminium is the perfect material for cars. It is 
lightweight and strong, with superior energy  
absorption and predictable crash behavior. It also 
makes cars lighter, and we have estimated that we 
can save 5 kg on each aluminium Crash Manage -
ment System, compared with a traditional one—
our R&D team calculated that this would mean 
saving 560,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions over 
the lifetime of the 7 million vehicles(1) we supply 
globally! 
Being at the cutting edge of innovation is one 
of the aspects of my job that I appreciate the 
most. At Gottmadingen we are currently running 
a pilot project working alongside a “cobot, ” or 
collaborative robot. The cobot takes over the “pick 
and place” task at the end of the production line so 
we can focus on key aspects of production. 
Above all, I take enormous satisfaction from 
knowing that the products I help manufacture 
are saving lives day after day, on roads all around 
the world.
(1) Constellium’s estimate based on 10  g/km CO2 saved for every 100  kg, 
and a useful life of 160,000  km per vehicle. Above all,  
i take enormous 
satisfaction from 
knowing that  
the products i help 
manufacture are 
saving lives  
day after day , on 
roads all around 
the world.”
MAXIMILIAN ALBERT  
PROCESS MECHANIC  
GOTTMADINGEN, GERMANYAs a child in Poland, when I gazed up at the 
stars I had no idea that one day I would help 
to explore them. I moved with my family to the 
U.S. as a teenager , and earned BS and MS degrees in 
Materials Engineering at the University of Illinois. My 
fascination with the cosmos continued during my 
college days. I bought a telescope to explore features 
of the Moon and rings of Saturn. 
In the 1990s, I was part of a team consisting of NASA, 
Lockheed Martin, and Reynolds Metals, tasked with 
the challenge of developing aluminium-lithium 
technology critically needed for a new generation of 
space shuttle rockets that delivered components to 
the International Space Station.
On June 2, 1998, one of the most exciting days of my 
life, I was sitting in the VIP section of the Kennedy 
Space Complex witnessing the incredibly successful 
launch of the Space Shuttle Discovery , which used an 
external tank built out of recently developed 2195 
alloy, which would later join the Airware family . 
Since 2002, I have worked for Constellium  
developing Airware® alloys for projects such as 
SpaceX’ Falcon 9® and NASA’s powerful Space 
Launch System rocket. There is no greater chal -
lenge than space travel, and my work is never dull.  
The conditions of outer space require extremely  
sophisticated materials that can resist environ -
mental and operational stresses—everything from 
launch turbulence to huge temperature variations. 
Our Airware® alloys allow for stronger, lighter 
construction, for more payload and higher orbits. They 
are highly formable, have superior tensile strength, 
and exhibit excellent properties at liquid oxygen and 
hydrogen temperatures. Constellium produces these 
state-of-the-art metals for trailblazing clients such 
as NASA, Boeing, Blue Origin, and Lockheed Martin. 
I like to think that kids all over the world are looking 
at the night sky and seeing the incredible spaceships 
we’ve put up there. I hope their dreams will push them 
to be a part of the space program. As a child  
in Poland, when 
I gazed up at the 
stars I had no idea 
that one day  
I would help to 
explore them.”
MICHAEL NIEDZINSKI  
G R O U P  L E A D E R  S P A C E  & 
DEFENSE, DIRECTOR OF  
STANDARDIZATION
RAVENSWOOD, U.S.AEROSPACE
PRODUCTS READY FOR TAKEOFF
Constellium is a major supplier of rolled and extruded 
products to the world’s top aircraft manufacturers. We 
develop and manufacture materials for all key struc -
tural applications, including fuselage and wing skins, 
doublers, stiffeners, window frames, bulkheads, floor 
structures, seat tracks, doors, and various engine com -
ponent parts. Our groundbreaking Airware® solution 
makes us the undisputed leader in aluminium-lithium 
technology. Constellium also offers pre-machining and 
recycling services, so that our customers generate less 
scrap or have less to manage, thus saving on material 
costs.
SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS
Airbus • Blue Origin • Boeing • Bombardier • Dassault 
Aviation • Embraer • Lockheed Martin • NASA • Pilatus • 
Pratt & Whitney • Safran12%
of our 2020 revenue 
came from the 
aerospace market
Constellium partners with all major air- 
and spacecraft companies to develop 
and manufacture high-performance and 
cost-effective products and solutions.  
We produce aluminium plates, sheets, 
castings, and extrusions;  develop advanced 
proprietary alloys and technologies;   and 
pre-machine and recycle. 
OUR AEROSPACE PLANTS 
Issoire, France:  
One of the world’s 
top aerospace 
plate mills, with a 
casthouse producing 
Airware®
Ussel, France: One 
of the sole providers 
of sand casting 
for aerospace 
componentsRavenswood, West 
Virginia: One of 
the most powerful 
stretchers in the world
Montreuil-Juigné, 
France:  Hard 
alloy extrusions 
for aerospace 
applicationsSierre, Switzerland: 
Aerospace qualified 
plate shop
C-TEC, France:  
R&D center with an 
Airware® casting unitAN INTEGRATED PLATFORM
Map not to scale  CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 202034A DECADE OF  
AIRWARE®
In July 2020, Airware® turned 10. 
Its roots go back to the 1980s and 
the idea to combine lithium with 
aluminium to make the lightest 
possible alloy for the NASA Space 
Shuttle. Constellium’s predecessor, 
Alcan, inherited the technology 
and continued to develop it. After 
Airbus requested Airware® for the 
A350, we launched it in 2010 with 
large investments at our Issoire and Voreppe sites. We now have a 
pilot casting facility at C-TEC, two 
casthouses at Issoire, and seven 
different Airware® alloys in the air. 
Lightweight, stiff, and corrosion-
resistant, they are market leaders, 
found in fuselage skins, stringers, 
ﬂoor structures, seat tracks, 
window frames, internal wing and 
fuselage components. Airware® 
has traveled to outer space as part 
of the NASA Orion Crew Module 
and the Boeing Space Launch 
System, and is part of Blue Origin’s 
New Glenn rocket.
CONSTELLIUM SIGNS 
A 10-YEAR CONTRACT 
WITH AIRBUS
In mid-2020, Constellium signed 
a 10-year agreement to support 
all Airbus programs with a broad 
range of advanced aluminium 
rolled and extruded products, 
including wing skin panels, 
sheets for fuselage panels, and 
rectangular and pre-machined 
plates for structural components. 
Constellium will continue to supply its proprietary aluminium-lithium 
alloy solution, Airware®, a proven 
technology offering a combination 
of unique strength and weight 
properties.
This agreement reinforces the 
long-standing partnership 
between Constellium and Airbus.
In 2020, Airbus recognized 
Constellium’s superior product 
quality, operational performance, 
and customer service with 
its Supply Chain and Quality 
Improvement Program “Best 
Performer Award. ” MARKET TRENDS
The near-term outlook for aerospace remains un -
certain, due to the effects of Covid-19. Aerospace 
OEMs have reduced build rates, and it is unclear 
how long they will stay at these levels. Inventory  
destocking is likely to persist through the first half 
of 2021. According to CRU, aluminium demand for 
the aerospace rolled products markets in North 
America and Europe is expected to decrease by 
2.2% per year between 2019 and 2025.
Nonetheless, aerospace remains a growth market 
in the medium to long term, thanks to a projected 
increase in air traffic. As aircraft manufacturers 
continue to look for materials combining high per -
formance and low operating costs, aluminium is 
expected to resume its growth, and Constellium, as 
a global leader in aluminium aerospace technology, 
is well-positioned to benefit. 
400
300
0200
100
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2025 2024AEROSPACE FLAT ROLLED PRODUCTS  
Consumption (kt)
CAGR
-2.2%
FLEET DEVELOPMENT DRIVEN BY PASSENGER 
DEMAND AND AGING FLEET (UNITS) 
Source: Boeing 2020 Commercial Market Outlook 2020 - 2039201925,900
203948,500
5,300 Retained20,700 Replacement (48%)22,500 Growth (52%)Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled Products 
Market Outlook November 2020.
  U.S. & Canada     Europe
35TRANSPORTATION,  
INDUSTRY ,  
& DEFENSE
Constellium provides an extensive 
range of rolled and extruded products  
for the transportation and industry 
markets, and innovative solutions for the 
defense industry. We stand out among the 
competition for our ability to manufacture 
thick plates, wide coils, low residual stress 
products, and wide profile products for 
applications with high added value.  21%
of our 2020 revenue came  
from other specialties,  
mostly from transportation, 
industry, and defense.TRANSPORTATION
Every kilogram we can shave off a mode of transpor -
tation translates into higher profits and helps our 
customers meet their sustainability goals. Aluminium 
alloys’ light weight and other intrinsic properties allow 
us to develop high-performance extrusions, sheets, 
plates, castings, and semi-finished components for 
all types of transportation—trailers, trucks, trains, 
tramways, and more. We further reduce customers’  
manufacturing costs and production throughput time 
with a selection of readymade components, solutions, 
and personalized services. Constellium is a leading 
aluminium supplier to the tank and trailer dump bod -
ies market, and to the pleasure boat market. We are 
also the market leader in rail solutions, covering the 
complete range of rolling stock material with our large 
extrusion product portfolio.
SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND 
DISTRIBUTORS
Brunswick Corporation • CAF • East Mfg • Gillig • Hitachi  
Rail • Koegel • Krone • MAC • Samuel • Schmitz • 
Stadler • White River Marine Group
AN INTEGRATED INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM
U.S.
Ravenswood,  
West Virginia:  Widest 
coil line in the 
industry and one of 
the most powerful 
stretchers in the 
world, enabling a 
wide variety of 
specifications for 
general engineering 
plate along with wide 
coil for transportation 
markets. Leading 
supplier to the 
defense industry 
EUROPE
Deˇcˇín, Czech Republic:  
Largest integrated 
hard alloy facility in 
Europe, and leading supplier of aluminium 
tubes, bars and 
profiles. Recycling 
capabilities
Issoire, France: 
Produces plates, 
sheets, and extrusions 
for the industry and 
defense markets
Montreuil-Juigné, 
France:  Specialized in 
hard alloy extrusions 
with a large selection 
of products and 
applications
Singen, Germany:  
Integrated hot/cold-
rolling line allowing 
unique metallurgical 
properties and short 
lead times. One of 
the largest extrusion 
presses in the world Soft Alloys Europe: 
Five plants working 
as an industrial 
network - Burg, 
Crailsheim, Landau 
in Germany; Levice, 
Slovakia; Nuits-
Saint-Georges, 
France
Ussel, France:  
Specializes in 
engineering 
complex, thin-
walled, and multi-
core parts through 
3D sand printing, 
casting, and 
solidification 
Valais, Switzerland: 
Precision plate 
unit for general 
engineering 
products. Leading 
large profile supplier 
for high-speed train 
manufacturers Map not to scale  CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 202036 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 202037
MOVING FORWARD
Tank trailers and dump-
bodies (TTDB) are used 
across a variety of domains: 
hauling agricultural 
products, transporting 
sand and cement, carrying 
liquids such as crude oil or 
water, and so on. Aluminium 
is the material of choice 
for TTDB trailers, and 
Constellium’s extra-large 
wide coil offering from 
our plant in Ravenswood, 
West Virginia, helps 
manufacturers to optimize 
product performance. 
Our Ravenswood facility 
recently conducted a project to signiﬁcantly 
increase the quality 
and reliability of its 
products, and developed 
new enhanced surface 
ﬁnishes that respond to 
our customers’ needs. 
As a result, MAC Trailer, 
one of the leading TTDB 
manufacturers in the U.S., 
selected Constellium as 
its supplier, signiﬁcantly 
increasing our market 
share. We are looking 
forward to further 
expanding our commercial 
reach and growing our 
business. 
ROLLING AHEAD
Worldwide, rail networks 
and rolling stock are 
expected to expand or be 
modernized, thanks to 
global economic growth and 
environmental concerns. 
As a market leader in rail 
solutions, Constellium 
is well-positioned to 
take advantage of these 
trends. Our large portfolio 
of extrusions covers the 
entire range of rolling 
stock for tramways, 
subways, regional trains, 
and high-speed trains. 
Our aluminium-steel co-extruded power rails 
supply electricity to 
underground and suburban 
train systems. Most 
important, our lightweight 
solutions allow rail vehicle 
manufacturers to increase 
passenger capacity and 
save energy, for major 
reductions in CO2 emissions.INDUSTRY
Aluminium is the perfect material for many industrial 
applications. It is readily machinable, weldable, 
formable, and an excellent conductor of electricity and 
thermal energy. Manufacturers know they can count 
on Constellium for our superior manufacturing skills 
and strong expertise in semiconductor and flat panel 
display equipment. We produce aluminium sheets, 
plates, bars, extrusions, and profiles, for everything 
from semiconductors to high dissipation heat sinks. 
Our offerings include functional parts, such as vacuum 
valves and load locks, and consumable parts, such as 
showerheads and diffusers.
SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS
Air Torque • Bosch • Draeger • Festo • Metso • Siemens •  
ThyssenKrupp
DEFENSE
We have maintained long-standing partnerships with 
defense companies, supplying new materials and 
solutions for military aircraft, military land vehicles, 
and navy ships. Currently, we are collaborating 
with the world’s top manufacturers of military land 
vehicles, developing specialized alloys as armor for 
the battlefield. Constellium’s armor product suite is the 
broadest offering of specialized aluminium alloys, and 
our high-performance materials are found in aircraft 
such as the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, F-22, F-16, A-10, 
Eurofighter Typhoon, and Hawk.
SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS
BAE Systems • Dassault Aviation • General Dynamics • 
GKN • John Cockerill Defense • Lockheed Martin • MBDA •  
Nexter SystemsAluminium extrusion from the Sierre facility 
in Switzerland
Sustainability has been one of my favorite 
topics since high school in Taiwan,  
where I had an English teacher who 
gave us American ecology magazines to read. 
But I never thought I could make a career in 
this field. Years later, when I saw the post -
ing for my job at Constellium—working on  
supply chain, purchasing, communications—
it sounded like a good way to get to know a 
company and pursue a career around sustain -
ability. Reporting is a big chunk of my work 
here. It might seem boring—collecting infor -
mation and putting it together to produce our 
annual business and sustainability report. 
But I see the things behind these tasks—you 
need to have actions before you can have 
something to report on. Without actions, it is 
just greenwashing. 
Constellium is very serious about sustainabil -
ity. We do not claim to have done anything that 
we do not do, and the report, which is audited 
by a third party, gives more credit to how we 
communicate our results and actions. 
The other part of my job is overseeing our  
responsible sourcing program. We know 
through analysis that the biggest environ -
mental and social risks of our business come 
from the supply chain, not our own operations, 
which is why we put this program in place. 
Last year, I became a mother, and that 
strengthened my motivation for working in 
sustainability . I see my daughter and imagine 
the world in 20 years, and I feel that I have to 
do something.  Last year, I became 
a mother, and that 
strengthened my 
motivation for working 
in sustainability .  
I see my daughter  
and imagine the world 
in 20 years, and  
I feel that I have  
to do something.”
ANGELA YIN-TZU HUANG
SUSTAINABILITY   
PROJECTS MANAGER
PARIS, FRANCESUSTAINABILITY  
REPORTAt Constellium, we are constantly inspired by the sustainability of aluminium, a metal that can be 
recycled over and over, until the end of time. Its qualities ﬁt in perfectly with our philosophy . We 
invest in people for the long term—looking out for their safety, encouraging their career growth, 
and supporting their families and communities. We do our best to minimize our environmental 
footprint and we work unceasingly with our stakeholders to ﬁnd solutions for a better, brighter, 
more sustainable future.SUSTAINABILITY
HIGHLIGHTS
SETTING OUR SITES ON 
ASI CERTIFICATION
The Aluminium Stewardship 
Initiative (ASI) is a global 
nonprofit organization that 
certifies companies in the 
aluminium value chain that 
respect certain environmen -
tal, social, and governance 
standards. In 2019, the ASI 
recognized Singen’s casting 
and rolling facilities with its 
Performance and Chain of 
Custody standards. In 2020, 
the site was able to start 
delivering ASI-certified coils 
to our customers. At the same 
time, we received both ASI 
certifications for Neuf-Bri -
sach, Singen Extrusion, Gott -
madingen, and Dahenfeld.
RECYCLING ON THE RISE 
Thanks to several initiatives, we 
significantly reduced the amount 
of landfilled production waste we 
generated at our U.S. sites in 2020. 
Under the supervision of a new 
recycling committee, Ravenswood 
improved its waste segregation 
and is addressing its flue gas 
dust, for an overall reduction in 
waste unconnected to the site’s temporary drop in production due 
to the pandemic. Production output 
at Muscle Shoals remained high 
throughout the pandemic, yet  
the site still cut its landfilled  
plant trash by more than 60% from 
2019 to 2020, started recycling 
refractory bricks and flue gas dust, 
and increased recycling of wood 
pallets by a factor 4. Muscle Shoals 
partnered with a supplier to achieve 
these successes.LOGGING ON TO LEARN  
OUR CODE
Our Worldwide Code of Employees 
and Business Conduct informs 
how we act and operate day to day. 
In 2020, we created an e-learning 
course on the Code and launched 
an internal campaign to ensure that more employees receive the 
training. The e-learning course is 
the cornerstone of our efforts to im -
plement the Code, along with other 
company policies and initiatives, 
such as respecting human rights, 
fighting corruption, and reducing our 
environmental footprint. 
In January 2020, our annual 
"Journée Bilan" at our Neuf-
Brisach plant, where we taught 
our Code to employees who lack 
access to e-learning.
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 40(1) The use by Constellium of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not 
constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Constellium by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and 
are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.
GIVING HEAL THCARE A HAND
When Covid-19 first hit, countries 
around the globe found themselves 
with a shortage of critical supplies for 
healthcare workers. Several of our sites 
stepped in, donating masks, safety 
glasses, coveralls, and other important 
equipment to local hospitals and  
senior centers. In France, Neuf-Brisach 
and Voreppe were among the sites  
that helped, and in the U.S., donations 
came from Bowling Green, Ravenswood, 
and Van Buren.CONSTELLIUM 
ALUMINIUM GOES 
PLATINUM 
Constellium’s commitment 
to sustainability has been 
recognized by several indepen-
dent organizations in 2020. 
EcoVadis gave us its highest 
rating, Platinum, bumping us 
up from our prior Gold rating 
and placing us in the top 1%. 
Our commitment to addressing 
climate change was also rewar-  
ded by the Carbon Disclosure 
Project, who raised our score 
from C in 2019 to B in 2020. 
Constellium received a rating 
of AA (on a scale of AAA-CCC)  
in the MSCI ESG Ratings(1) 
assessment, placing us in the 
top 8% in our sector (Metals 
and Mining - Non-Precious 
Metals).
ISS-oekom awarded our 
sustainability performance the 
Prime status and B rating, the 
best grade within the metal 
and mining sector.
UNLOCKING THE SECRETS  
TO BETTER CAR DOORS
In 2020, we launched Projet ISA3, a three-
year R&D project led by Constellium (the 
five-party consortium includes Renault), 
with funding from Bpifrance Financement.
The project aims to develop aluminium 
automotive doors that are 15% lighter, 
cheaper to produce, and recyclable at all 
stages of their life cycle. Constellium’s 
C-TEC research center will accelerate 
development of our highly formable, high-
strength 6xxx alloys, and the doors will be 
designed to facilitate end-of-life recycling.BOWLING GREEN GETS 
GREENER
Our facility in Bowling Green, 
Kentucky, proudly received the 
label “Exemplary Environmental 
Steward” from the Tennessee Valley 
Authority (TVA), which recognizes 
local businesses that help make 
the region cleaner and greener. 
The plant produces aluminium 
Automotive Body Sheet, and since 
its opening in 2016 has strived to 
minimize the amount of power it 
consumes. For example, the plant 
improved the automotive finishing 
line, the wastewater treatment 
facility, and the positive air pressure 
system. Based on its 2019 power 
consumption, the site received the 
TVA’s awards for "Lowest Carbon 
Emissions" and "Most Improved 
Carbon Emissions" in 2020.
41 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020
Identifying risks and issues  
Constellium uses materiality assessments 
to identify sustainability topics affecting our 
activities and the aluminium value chain 
over the short, medium, and long term. We 
consolidate the risks identified and then 
assess and prioritize those risks.
We conducted our first materiality assess -
ment in 2014, surveying top managers and 
external stakeholders. In 2017-2018, we 
broadened the scope by surveying close to 
100 internal stakeholders and 100 exter -
nal stakeholders from around the world. In 
2019, with the support of an independent 
third-party company, we updated our as -
sessment and performed a sustainability 
risk analysis involving internal top managers.
A more extensive assessment  
in 2020
In 2020, we expanded our materiality as -
sessment to allow for more rigorous anal -
ysis and deeper insights. A team led by 
Internal Audit and Control, with input from 
Investor Relations, Finance, Purchasing, 
Sales, and Sustainability , assessed the risks 
of climate change on our business. These 
range from direct impacts (e.g., extreme 
weather events disrupting production) to 
indirect ones (e.g., changes in customer ex -
pectations). We also updated our corruption 
risk map after our Internal Audit and Control 
team led in-depth discussions with various 
functions and sites. 
We conducted a survey of our sales and key 
account managers to understand our cus -tomers’ expectations regarding sustainability. 
The survey confirmed that, in addition to en -
vironmental topics, customers are concerned 
about issues such as business ethics, prod -
ucts from conflict areas, and responsible 
sourcing. 
We used our participation in associations to 
align our sustainability efforts with those of 
the aluminium sector. We are a member of 
European Aluminium, whose Sustainabili -
ty Roadmap Towards 2025 is aligned with 
eight of the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (Constellium's targets also reflect 
these eight SDGs). European Aluminium’s  
ongoing mid-term review of its roadmap 
triggered discussions within the industry 
about safety, energy efficiency, waste man -
agement, water management, and respon -
sible sourcing practices. 
As a member of the Aluminium Stewardship 
Initiative (ASI), we are actively involved in 
revising standards, and have discussed is -
sues such as transparency, gender equality, 
human rights, and greenhouse gas reduction 
targets. 
Finally, the Covid-19 pandemic highlight -
ed the significance of employee health and 
safety, which is always on our list of key 
materiality topics and risks. We responded 
with comprehensive preventive measures 
and controls, including social distancing, 
surface cleaning, mask wearing, workplace 
partitions, and in certain cases, working 
from home (see pages  22-23 for more infor -
mation).“Sustainability is 
front of mind for 
investors. Assessing 
the environmental, 
social, and governance 
risks of a company is 
increasingly viewed 
to be as critical 
as the traditional 
analysis of ﬁnancial 
results and business 
performance. ”
Ryan Wentling,  
Director Investor RelationsBy conducting a materiality analysis on a regular basis, Constellium 
identifies the topics that matter most to our stakeholders, and can align  
our sustainability efforts with their priorities. ASSESSING MATERIAL  
SUSTAINABILITY RISKS
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 42CONSTELLIUM’S SIGNIFICANT   
SUSTAINABILITY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES(1)
(1) Our sustainability risk analysis concluded that certain risks are not material to our business and, therefore, such risks are not addressed in our consolidated statement of non-financial 
performance. In particular, taking the nature of our business into account, we consider that combating food waste, combating food insecurity, respect for animal welfare and responsible, 
fair and sustainable food policy do not constitute high risks for Constellium and do not justify a specific development in our consolidated statement of non-financial performance.Four pillars Sustainable Development Goals Risks and opportunities 
PRODUCTS
•  Developing products with 
environmental beneﬁts
•  Recycling
•  Market regulatory 
changes
PEOPLE
•  Employee health  
and safety
• Gender diversity
•  Talent attraction  
and retention
OPERATIONS
• Emissions and waste
•  Energy and greenhouse 
gas emissions
RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS
• Business ethics
• Sustainable purchasing
43 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Our challenges
Our activities are subject to all kinds of reg -
ulatory changes. While current trends are 
favorable to the aluminium market, imple -
mentation of regulatory changes could affect 
our business either positively or negatively. 
In the packaging sector, for example, 
regulatory challenges mainly concern 
packaging recycling, such as the EU’s 
Circular Economy regulations—in 
particular, the Single Use Plastics strategy 
and the Packaging Waste Directive. For 
aluminium beverage cans whose recycling 
rate is already high, this means going the 
extra mile, either through deposit laws or 
improved collection systems.
As for the automotive and transportation 
markets, regulations on CO2 e m i s s i o n s  
reduction will favor materials that are 
lighter yet still strong, driving the increased 
use of aluminium in vehicles. Regulations 
are evolving in the U.S. Some states, such 
as California, are maintaining an ambitious 
fuel emissions reduction program. At the 
Federal level, there are ongoing discussions 
about the new SAFE program, which is less 
aggressive than the previous CAFE targets. 
Regarding changes specific to our industry, 
we are closely monitoring the EU’s CO2 
Emissions Trading System. Phase 4 of the 
Emissions Trading System related to CO2 
quota allowances has been defined, and 
guidelines for indirect compensation(1) have 
been issued. We are also closely following the 
transition to a new administration in the U.S., 
in regard to CO2 regulations for vehicles, as 
well as increased momentum for recycling.As part of the European Green Deal, the 
European Commission is considering a 
carbon border tax adjustment. Its purpose 
would be to ensure a level playing field, 
and to shield specifically targeted sectors 
against cheaper imports from countries with 
less strict climate policies. The Green Deal 
aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
in the EU by 55% in 2030 compared to 
1990 and to reach carbon neutrality by 
2050. It encompasses a range of measures, 
regulations, and incentives which we 
are following very attentively, along with 
European Aluminium and other member 
state associations.
Finally , we are closely monitoring regulations 
related to chemicals use and industrial 
emissions that concern our manufacturing 
operations, such as REACH in the EU. Moreover, 
EU Directive 2010/75 on industrial emissions 
(integrated pollution prevention and control) 
regulates a number of our European activities, 
including recycling and casting operations. STAYING ONE STEP AHEAD  
OF MARKET REGULATORY CHANGES
In the various markets in which we operate, regulations evolve quickly .  It is an 
important part of our job to monitor, anticipate, and react to changes anywhere in the 
world that might affect our business.
Our policies and actions
A significant part of our regulatory watch takes 
place via our involvement in industry and 
multi-stakeholder associations, where our 
representatives hold positions in governance 
structures and participate actively in projects, 
working groups, and committees. More than 
40 Constellium employees have been involved 
in industry associations since 2016. 
We will continue to participate in 
associations and initiatives aimed at 
improving industry representation and 
sustainability in our markets. We also 
work to provide solutions for customers 
eager to respond to changing regulations, 
who expect us to lead or keep pace with 
regulatory innovations so that we can 
address their needs.
For a full list of associations and initiatives 
where Constellium is a member, please 
see page 88.
Virtual platform homepage of Aluminum Association's general sessions in 2020
(1) Indirect compensation: Under the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme Directive, indirect compensation relates to financial measures in favor of sectors determined 
to be exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage due to costs relating to greenhouse gas emissions passed on in electricity prices in order to compensate for those indirect emissions costs. 
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 442020: Disruption and adaptation
Every strategy is subject to unpredictability, 
and in 2020 that came in the form of a 
global pandemic. We had made good 
progress on many of our targets, but had 
to face the reality that this crisis would 
have a negative effect on several of them. 
These include our energy efficiency and 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emission intensity 
reduction targets, community programs, 
responsible purchasing activities, customer 
and employee satisfaction surveys, and 
recycling rates (since the pandemic 
hampered collection rates). We also had to 
slow down some of the key programs added 
to our sustainability roadmap, namely 
gender diversity and employee learning.
We were gratified to see that there were 
other areas where we were able to progress, 
despite the crisis. We achieved and even sur -
passed our safety goals, with a Recordable 
Case Rate of 1.82 (22% under the target), and 
a specific Covid-19 program to protect our 
employees. We also met our target for land -
filled production waste, with a 33% reduction 
versus 2015, thanks to the full implementa -
tion of recycling programs that we launched 
at our main U.S. sites. We received Alumini -
um Stewardship Initiative (ASI) certifications 
for three sites, which was beyond our origi -
nal plan. We received a Platinum rating from 
EcoVadis (see page  41), a recognition of our 
efforts in achieving our targets.
In light of this very specific situation and 
the unpredictability of Covid-19, we have 
decided to postpone our 2020 targets to 2021, and to use this time to continue 
working towards them. 
Planning for 2030 and beyond
Under the supervision of the Executive 
Committee and the Board, we have launched 
a project to determine our key sustainability 
objectives, as part of our company strategy 
for 2030 and climate neutrality ambition 
for 2050. The project includes all functions 
and operational executives at the highest 
level of the Company. It aims to design a 
comprehensive and holistic sustainability 
strategy and to define ambitious, realistic 
targets by the end of 2021. These objectives 
will be based on our materiality assessment, 
the expectations of our stakeholders, and 
external benchmarks.
Workstreams include Social, Governance, 
and Environment, with a specific focus 
on GHG, including our Scope 3 emissions 
and recycling. Our 2025 GHG target for 
Scopes 1 and 2 is an intermediate step 
in our 2030 objectives and our ultimate 
goals for 2050. The ASI standards will 
continue to play an important role in our 
2030 targets, both for our own practices 
and those of our suppliers, as part of our 
goal to contribute to the sustainability of 
the entire aluminium industry.ADJUSTING OUR TARGETS AND  
DEFINING FUTURE PERSPECTIVES
The Covid-19 crisis made 2020 an extremely challenging year that required agility and 
adaptation.  At Constellium, we have kept an eye on our targets, adjusted our expectations 
where necessary, and continued planning for the long term.
“Our 2030 sustainability 
strategy will deﬁne what 
we want Constellium 
to be and how we 
want to act, from an 
Environmental, Social and 
Governance standpoint. 
We are taking a holistic 
approach by making 
our ESG commitments 
key components of our 
global strategy . Reaching 
our 2030 goals will also 
be one major step in 
our journey to carbon 
neutrality in 2050. ”
Nicolas Brun,  
Senior Vice President Public 
Affairs, Communications,  
and Sustainability
45 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020(1) Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, 
restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours worked.
(2) We had two serious injuries in 2020.
(3) Community engagement addresses our challenges and opportunities in talent engagement 
and retention. Target achieved
 Significant progress made; on track to achieve the target
 More effort required to achieve the targetOUR SUSTAINABILITY  
TARGETS FOR 2021
By regularly analyzing our progress, we can identify the most 
critical areas we need to address, focus our efforts to achieve  
our targets, and define our objectives for the years to come.
• Have at least one  
site Aluminium  
Stewardship Initiative  
(ASI) certiﬁed 
• Evaluate the sustainability 
performance of key and 
at-risk suppliers that 
represent 70% of the Group's 
annual spending
  
• Ensure that all contracted 
suppliers sign our Supplier 
Code of Conduct
  BUILD A STANDARD  
FOR ALUMINIUM
ENSURE  
SUSTAINABLE 
PURCHASING
RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS
We will manage our  
business in an ethical  
and responsible way
• Reduce production waste  
going to landﬁll by 10%  
(vs. 2015)REDUCE  
PRODUCTION WASTE 
SENT TO LANDFILL
• 10% energy efﬁciency 
improvement  
(vs. 2015) IMPROVE ENERGY  
EFFICIENCY
OPERATIONS
We will minimize  
the impact  
of our operations• 80% beverage can recycling 
rate in Europe
• Work with the industry  
and with our stakeholders  
to increase the beverage  
can recycling rate  
in the U.S. BOOST  
BEVERAGE  
CAN RECYCLING
PRODUCTS
We will enhance the 
environmental beneﬁts of 
our products and improve 
customer satisfaction
• Conduct a customer 
satisfaction survey  
every two years for all  
business unitsINCREASE  
CUSTOMER  
SATISFACTION• Reduce our Recordable  
Case Rate(1) by 10% per  
annum from  2016
• No more than four  
serious injuries  
a year(2)
• Be in the industry’s top 
quartile for safety  
results FURTHER IMPROVE  
OUR SAFETY  
RECORD
• Six-point increase in  
overall employee  
satisfaction from  
a 2014 baselineENGAGE OUR   
PEOPLE
PEOPLE
We will ensure our people  
are safe, skilled, motivated,  
and engaged
• At least one community  
activity per site  
every yearSTRENGTHEN OUR 
COMMUNITIES(3)
• A 25% reduction in Scope 1 
and 2 emissions intensity by 
2025  (vs. 2015) REDUCE  
GREENHOUSE  
GAS EMISSIONS
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 46Our LCA model tells a more  
complete story 
Our global LCA model calculates the carbon 
footprint and other environmental impacts 
associated with different life cycle phases 
of a given product or activity, according to 
ISO 14040-44 Standards. It studies the 
effects of our own activity (energy use, 
waste production, air and water emissions, 
water consumption) as well as those 
arising from other phases of a product’s life 
cycle. These include bauxite mining, metal 
production, transportation of raw material 
to and from Constellium sites, a product’s 
end of life, and potential benefits from 
product use phase (such as weight savings 
in automotive applications). See pages  48-
49 for more details.
The LCA model allows us to collect and 
process data from product lines, sites, 
operating segments, and Constellium as a 
whole. It provides a detailed understanding 
of our global footprint, and shows that 
Constellium’s internal activity generates 
less than 20% of our products’ carbon 
emissions over their lifetimes. Establishing 
a full life cycle assessment is key to 
determining whether a product is worth 
manufacturing, and if the benefits of its 
downstream phase offset the impacts of 
production.These assessments indicate that our 
overall emissions are largely dominated 
by metal sourcing (Scope 3(3)), based on 
2020 data. Energy (Scopes 1(1) a n d  2(2)) 
comes next, with a much smaller footprint. 
 Transportation (Scope 3) contributes even 
less. Though waste and water manage -
ment are environmentally important, their 
contri   bution to our emissions (Scope 3) is 
immaterial. 
AVOIDED  
EMISSIONS
FROM PRODUCT  
USE  
-4.7 MT CO2 eq.   TOTAL(5):
6.5
MT CO2 eq. PRODUCTS ’  
END OF LIFE 
RECYCLING   
-2.7 MT CO2 eq.(4)METAL INPUT   
8 MT CO2 eq.
WATER & WASTE   
-0.05 MT CO2 eq.ENERGY   
1 MT CO2 eq.TRANSPORTATION  
0.2 MT CO2 eq.ANALYZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS  
WITH LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENTS
(1) Scope 1: direct emissions from sources we own or control.
(2) Scope 2: indirect emissions from production of the energy we purchase (electricity).
(3) Scope 3: all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that occur throughout 
Constellium’s value chain, including both upstream and downstream emissions.
(4) CO2 eq. =  CO2 equivalent.
(5) Total without accounting for product use.We use life cycle assessment (LCA) to gain a thorough understanding  
of a product’s environmental impacts at every stage,  from mining through  
the end of its useful life. 
47CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020PRODUCTS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONSDEVELOPING PRODUCTS WITH  
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
Our challenges 
We aim to deepen ties with our customers 
by consistently providing best-in-class 
products, joint product development, mar -
ket-leading supply chain integration, tech -
nical support, and scrap recycling solutions. 
Technological innovation is particularly im -
portant, as our customers require us to lead 
or keep pace with new solutions to address 
their needs while reducing their environ -
mental footprint. 
Our policies and actions 
Most of Constellium’s environmental initia -
tives aim at lightweighting products, pro -
moting recycling, or improving production 
processes and the footprint of aluminium 
products over their complete life cycle.
Sustainability check —  As part of our 
development process, we perform a sus -
tainability check to assess product perfor -
mance against a set of criteria, including 
health and safety, energy, climate, waste, 
and social aspects. Our project managers 
are trained to integrate these checks into 
the R&D process. A Life Cycle Assessment 
can be carried out in addition to the sustain -
ability check, depending on its results. Among our efforts to be truly 
sustainable, we must ensure 
that the products we create 
offer the best possible solutions 
to an array of technical issues 
and environmental concerns, 
and that they satisfy all of our 
customers’ expectations.
PRODUCTION PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS
We are developing alloys with higher 
corrosion resistance to reduce the 
need for chemical treatments and 
provide better durability . Another 
way we improve sustainability is by 
optimizing process efﬁciency and 
product delivery . For instance, our 
Issoire plant sends aluminium plates 
to a local third party , who machines 
them into parts before delivery and 
returns the machining scrap to us. As a 
result, less metal is sent to customers, 
the machining scrap travels a shorter 
distance to our facilities, and we 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
associated with transportation and 
scrap by one-third.
We are participating in a new initiative, 
ACHIEF (innovative high performance 
Alloys and Coatings for Highly 
EFﬁcient intensive energy Processes), 
with 11 partners from Europe 
and Turkey . ACHIEF is developing 
innovative materials to reduce CO2 
emissions from energy intensive 
industries and improve energy efﬁciency and equipment lifetime. For 
Constellium, ACHIEF will propose a 
new Polymer Derived Ceramic coating 
to increase the corrosion resistance 
of casting line refractories, and novel 
HESA (High Entropy Superalloy) nano-
coatings to improve rolling cylinder 
wear resistance.
Despite the Covid-19 crisis, we have 
continued to put important resources 
into R&D . At the end of 2020, our C- TEC 
Research and Development center in 
Voreppe, France, employed 226 people, 
of whom 203 were scientists and 
technicians. The Research T echnology 
center in Brunel, England, employs 58 
people, including 23 Brunel University 
employees working on Constellium 
innovation programs. The Research 
and Development hub in Plymouth, 
in the U.S., employs six people. We 
invested €48 million in 2019 and €39 
million in 2020.
Our Advanced Metal Casting 
Center, Brunel University, London
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 202048Lightweighting — Lightweighting is a 
 major benefit of aluminium in the sectors 
in which we operate. 
Our Aerospace and Transportation unit 
provides innovative aluminium rolled and 
extruded products that help to lightweight 
aircraft and other types of vehicles,  
for greater fuel efficiency. Constellium 
continues to lead in the aerospace market 
by supplying our customers with Airware®, 
a range of lightweight aluminium lithium 
alloys. We also produce rolled plate, coil, and 
sheet for ground transportation markets, 
where products of ours such as tread plate 
reduce trailer weight and fuel consumption. 
In the Packaging sector, we are working on 
R&D projects to make beverage cans about 
10% lighter , improving their carbon footprint 
by the same proportion. Due for completion 
within five years, these projects focus on 
optimizing can domes, the heaviest parts 
of cans. Our innovative design should allow 
for a much higher resistance to internal 
pressure and a reduction in metal use.For the Automotive sector, we partner 
with vehicle manufacturers to develop 
advanced solutions that lightweight 
motor vehicles. These include Constellium 
HSA6® high performance extrusions for 
Crash Management Systems (CMS) and 
other structural and safety parts, and 
Surfalex®, an aluminium rolled solution, for 
outer parts requiring high surface quality. 
We have several automotive projects 
underway with partners in the UK, and 
have successfully finished the Carbon 
Aluminium Automotive Hybrid Structures 
(CAAHS) initiative. With it, we developed a 
new generation of materials for a rolling 
chassis based on 6xxx series aluminium 
alloys that reduce the weight of automotive 
body structures by 40%. Optimizing  
can design:  
from modeling 
to prototyping  
and ﬁnal 
product.We are leading a consortium of automotive 
manufacturers and suppliers for UK-
based project, ALIVE (Aluminium Intensive 
Vehicle Enclosures), developing structural 
aluminium battery enclosures for electric 
vehicles. In 2020, our C-TEC research 
center received grants from the French 
Environmental Agency for a project called 
ALLEGRIA, and EU funding for another 
project called LoCoMaTech. Both are 
aimed at developing high-strength alloys 
(7xxx series) for lighter weight automotive 
structures. 
MATERIALS   
RECYCLABILITY  
We are carrying out important 
work with customers by 
developing end products that 
incorporate scrap and are 
easier to recycle. Alloys for 
cosmetics applications are a 
case in point. Until now, these 
have not contained recycled 
scrap due to concerns that 
use of post-consumer scrap 
(PCS) could not meet the 
high quality requirements 
of cosmetics. However, our 
customers have started 
requesting alloys with 
recycled inputs. We are in the 
early stages of developing a 
new alloy that incorporates 
PCS and will serve as coils for 
components such as lipstick 
sleeves and perfume caps. 
49 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020PRODUCTS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONSCHAMPIONING  
RECYCLING
Our challenges
Aluminium is infinitely recyclable. By reducing 
the need for primary metal, aluminium 
recycling avoids waste production, resource 
depletion, and greenhouse gas emissions. 
The process involves simply remelting the 
metal, which is far less energy-intensive than 
manufacturing new aluminium. Recycling 
end-of-life scrap requires only 5% of the 
energy used to produce primary metal, and 
delivers up to 95% in CO2 savings. 
In regions where aluminium is widely used, 
manufacturers, customers, governments, 
local authorities, and waste management 
companies have set up processes for 
collecting used beverage cans and other 
end-of-life aluminium products, so they can 
be remelted.
The main challenge of aluminium recycling is 
the availability of scrap. Given the long lifespan 
of the most dominant aluminium applications 
in terms of volume (such as buildings and 
transport vehicles), the available quantity of 
end-of-life aluminium scrap is limited to what 
was put on the market many years ago. This, 
combined with consistent market growth, 
makes it impossible for recycling alone to feed 
current demand. Our policies and actions
Recycling is one of our major contributions 
to the aluminium value chain, and we seek 
to improve upon it in four different ways:
• Increasing scrap collection rates in 
collaboration with key stakeholders
• Better sorting through partnerships
• Creating better and more efficient closed 
recycling loops
• Improving our own recycling processes, 
including the development of new and more 
scrap-tolerant alloys
Recycling at our plants —  Constellium 
offers significant recycling capacity across 
our plants. In the U.S., our Muscle Shoals, 
Alabama facility operates one of the largest 
and most efficient can recycling facilities 
in the world. Our plant in Neuf-Brisach, 
France, is an integrated rolling, finishing, and 
recycling facility, while another French plant, 
in Issoire, is one of the world’s two leading Our Recycling Capacity
aerospace plate mills, based on volume. 
The Issoire plant operates two Airware® 
superscript industrial casthouses and 
recycles scrap all along the manufacturing 
chain.
Deˇcˇín in the Czech Republic, is a large 
extrusion facility, mainly focused on hard 
alloy extrusions for automotive and industrial 
applications, with significant recycling 
capabilities. Our Valais, Switzerland, facility 
has two casthouses that produce billets and 
slabs from pre-consumer scrap.
Better recycling through partnerships  
—While we continue to develop our own 
recycling capacity , we believe that we can also 
improve recycling through partnerships with 
relevant stakeholders, including customers, 
associations, and research centers. By 
collaborating to improve scrap collection and 
sorting, players from across the industry can 
foster best practices for maximum results. Reusing aluminium scrap from 
products such as cans and 
cars is vastly superior to using 
primary metal, as recycling uses 
a fraction of the energy needed 
for virgin metal. Constellium 
recycles thousands of tons of 
aluminium and works to boost 
global recycling rates. 
Used beverage cans in Muscle Shoals, U.S. 
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 502021 TARGET INDICATOR 2017 2018(1)
80% beverage can recycling 
rate in EuropeEurope beverage can  
recycling rate 75.4% 76.1%
(1) Figures published by European Aluminium in 2020 at:
https:/ /www.european-aluminium.eu/media/3013/2020-12-16-european-aluminium-mpe-aluminium-beverage-can-2018-recycling-rate_press-release.pdfOUR RESUL TSFor this reason, we participate in several 
programs via a number of partnerships:
• As members of European Aluminium and the 
Aluminum Association (U.S.), as well as other 
regional and national organizations, we work 
with different stakeholders on recycling and 
sustainability topics.
• As part of the European Aluminium Pack  aging 
Group, we are working with our customers to 
develop a Beverage Can Recycling Roadmap.
• We are collaborating with Every Can Counts® 
on communication and collection programs to 
boost beverage can recycling rates in Europe.
• We work with local organizations, such as 
UK-based Alupro, France Aluminium Recy -
clage, Italy’s CIAL, and Spain’s Arpal, to devel -
op and promote collection schemes in each 
market, and we participate in discussions 
about deposit schemes.
• In the U.S., we are working with the Recycling 
Partnership and the Aluminum Association 
to identify why the country’s beverage can 
recycling rate has not improved in 20 years. 
Together we promote new legislation to 
increase recycling.
• Automotive scrap is also high on the agenda, 
with initiatives from the European Aluminium 
T ransport Group and the "Comité Stratégique 
de Filière Mines et Métallurgie" in France.Constellium integrates a signiﬁcant 
share of recycled aluminium into 
our products. On average, recycled 
aluminium, calculated by following 
GRI 301-2 guidance, accounted for 
over 40% of our metal input in 2020. 
Of this, 18% was post-consumer 
scrap (generated at the end-of-life 
phase of ﬁnished goods), and the 
rest was pre-consumer production 
scrap (generated downstream from 
Constellium’s operations). This 
recycled material input does not 
account for internally generated 
scrap, in line with the ISO 14021 
standard.
That said, Constellium does not 
consider that recycled content 
should be singled out as the 
only relevant indicator for the 
environmental performance  
of aluminium products. We also  
focus on a product’s end-of-life 
recycling, to ensure that valuable 
resources are reliably and 
efﬁciently collected and recycled.Sites Recycling capacity  
(metric tons per year)
Muscle Shoals, 
U.S.340,000 tons of post and 
pre-consumer scrap
Neuf-Brisach, 
France150,000 tons of post and 
pre-consumer scrap
Valais, 
Switzerland30,000 tons of pre-
consumer scrap
Issoire,  
France20,000 tons of pre-
consumer scrap
Deˇcˇín,  
Czech Republic20,000 tons of post and 
pre-consumer scrapOUR RECYCLING CAPACITY  
51 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020PRODUCTS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONScycling, etc.), human rights, business ethics, 
and responsible sourcing. 
Overall, our customers have a high opinion 
of our sustainability performance. Despite 
the pandemic, our efforts were recognized 
in 2020:
• Airbus gave us a “Best Performer Award” at 
its annual Supply Chain and Quality Improve -
ment Program, and signed a 10-year con -
tract for us to supply the company’s entire 
range of programs with advanced aluminium 
rolled and extruded products, from wing skin 
panels to plates for structural components. 
• Constellium is delivering advanced ma -
terial and technical expertise to help Blue 
Origin meet the planned first launch of its 
massive orbital rocket, New Glenn, in 2021. 
Blue Origin’s materials and process engineer 
Todd Morton explains, “Constellium’s under -
standing and availability to support the high 
performance aluminium offerings for launch 
vehicle environments allows us to pursue our 
designs quickly and confidently.” 
• In collaboration with a canmaker, we im -
proved canstock lines' performance by opti -
mizing the forming process. This allowed to 
produce 10,000 additional cans from every 
coil by minimizing scraps.
• Car manufacturers have made us the 
world’s leading supplier of 6xxx-series al -
uminium sheet for electric vehicle battery 
enclosures. In 2020, we supplied battery 
enclosure underride protection for more 
than 400,000 all-electric vehicles in the 
U.S. alone. Battery electric vehicles help to PRIORITIZING CUSTOMER  
SATISFACTION
Long-lasting partnerships with 
our customers are the foundation 
of our business. We spare no 
effort to understand their needs 
and surpass their expectations, 
even during a global pandemic.
Our challenges
We seek to build long-term relationships 
with customers and continually improve our 
performance. Even in 2020, an exceptionally 
challenging year , we successfully supported 
our customers with minimal disruption. 
Our policies and actions
We communicate frequently with our cus -
tomers to understand their wants and needs. 
In the past two years, their requests concern -
ing sustainability have increased, and these 
will be important to our 2030 roadmap. Due 
to Covid-19, we did not conduct a customer 
survey in 2020. Instead, we held an internal 
survey of our sales managers about custom -
er expectations in terms of sustainability. We 
received more than 100 responses across 
all business units and included all major 
customers. Foremost in their minds are the 
environment (greenhouse gas emissions, re -
reduce air pollution and avoid CO2 emis -
sions. Using aluminium rather than heavier 
solutions, including advanced steel alloys, 
reduces a vehicle’s energy needs and there -
fore its environmental footprint.
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2018 2020
Conduct a customer  
satisfaction survey every two 
years in all business unitsConduct a customer  
satisfaction survey in all  
business unitsAll business units conducted  
customer surveys and imple -
mented actions based on the 
resultsNo survey was performed due to 
Covid-19. An internal survey was 
conducted regarding customers' 
sustainability inquiriesOUR RESUL TSConstellium teams were recognized with the 
"Best Performer Award" by Airbus at its annual 
Supply Chain and Quality Improvement Program 
(SQIP) on January 28, 2020. 
Ravenswood, U.S.
Issoire, France
Montreuil-Juigné, France
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 52After growing up in the area of Muscle Shoals, 
I moved away for a while, then saw an 
opportunity to come back and work for the 
company, and jumped on it. I've worked at the 
Muscle Shoals facility for 13 years, which became 
part of Constellium 5 years ago. I came in as an 
industrial engineer, then worked as a process 
engineer, and I have now been Quality Manager 
for the last three years. I work closely with the 
process team and automation engineers in an 
ofﬁce on the plant ﬂoor, maybe 10 feet from the 
mill. It is rare to be a woman in this industry, but 
not as rare as when I ﬁrst started—now there are 
a lot more women on the ﬂoor and in management.  
Constellium has always been understanding about 
having a work/life balance, which is important to 
me as a working mom.
I work in cold rolling, which is my favorite 
department, because it is something new every 
day. Even though we’ve done a lot over the last 
few years, there is always something to improve. 
In cold rolling, our main goal is to get the metal 
to the correct thickness for the customer. The 
quality group sets the standards for the product 
based on customer specifications. Then we 
develop procedures for the operators to follow 
to stay within those controls, and ways for them 
to monitor what they are doing. We have high 
internal quality standards, and we have had a lot 
of feedback, particularly since Constellium took 
over, that our product has improved. I love the 
process of producing aluminium, in my experience 
it is different from normal manufacturing. It acts 
different, it works different, it is just a different 
little niche in the manufacturing world.  We have high 
internal quality 
standards, and 
we have had a 
lot of feedback, 
particularly 
since Constellium 
took over, that 
our product has 
improved.”
KRISTY LYLE
QUALITY MANAGER  
MUSCLE SHOALS, U.S.PRODUCTS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS
making daily rounds on the shop floor, 
webinars with our CEO, or our new online 
employee news portal (available to all 
employees, including those who have 
no company email address). Regular 
communication was vital to keeping our 
employees engaged.
Global Employee Survey —  Every two 
years, we carry out a comprehensive 
Global Employee Survey to measure 
satisfaction and track our progress 
towards our targets. In our 2018 survey, ATTRACTING, ENGAGING, AND  
RETAINING THE BEST PEOPLE
In a competitive industry, our 
business will ﬂourish only if we 
continue to attract top talent 
and give them reasons to remain, 
such as a company culture based 
on values and opportunities for 
career development.
Our challenges
We expect our plants to face higher 
levels of attrition as employees retire in 
coming years, due to demographic trends 
in the labor markets where we operate. 
We also face the challenge of strategic 
workforce planning, as skills must 
evolve with changing technological and 
industrial needs. The search for qualified 
individuals is highly competitive in our 
industry, and we need to hire enough 
personnel to succeed our key employees. 
For all of these reasons, we are focused 
on attracting and retaining our talent 
through development, communication, 
and employee engagement.
Our policies and actions
Engaging our people through communi -
cation —  Constellium’s values guide how 
we work together and with our customers, 
suppliers, and partners. Our Group-wide 
program “MOMENTUM” communicates 
our mission, strategy, and values to our 
employees (see page  13).
In 2020, we stayed close to our employees 
at Group and local levels even during 
challenging times—whether by managers 
we noted progress in all categories and 
statistically significant improvement 
overall. Following analysis of the results, 
we have implemented action plans related 
to Training and Development; Leadership 
and Company Culture; and Environment, 
Health, and Safety.
Due to the pandemic, we delayed our 2020 
employee survey to 2021. Instead, we held 
a virtual pulse survey in December to 
understand our employees’ concerns and 
how they fared during the crisis. 
At Muscle Shoals, Constellium signed a Memorandum of 
Understanding with the University of North Alabama offering 
a new education opportunity for Constellium employees.
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 542021 TARGET INDICATOR 2018 2020
A six-point increase in employee 
satisfaction compared to 2015 
Global Employee SurveyEmployee satisfaction  
rate in the biannual  
Global Employee Survey(1) +10
point increase vs. 20153.85/5
average score, virtual 
Pulse Survey(1)OUR RESUL TSNearly 5,000 employees (41%) participated, 
with an average score of at least 3.5 out of 
5 for all questions, which is encouraging, 
given the crisis. We communicated these 
results to our individual sites, who shared 
them with their employees, along with 
proposed action plans. These plans 
include continuing our Paris office’s virtual 
town hall meetings, originally launched in 
response to the pandemic.
Learning and Development —  In 2019, we 
created the Global Engineering Develop -
ment Program for early-career engineers 
working at Constellium. It allows them to 
develop their technical, leadership, and 
business skills. This program is designed 
to build a talent pipeline for internal tech -
nical expertise. After a brief hiatus due to 
Covid-19, the pilot will continue virtually 
through 2021.
 
We launched a new version of the Code of 
Conduct e-learning course in 2020, required 
of all professional level employees, and 
added courses on Information Security, 
which is increasingly important as more 
people work remotely. 
Promoting social dialogue —  We seek to 
create conditions for favorable employer-
employee relationships, and to reach 
formal agreements that are fair to all. Free 
expression within the Group and continuous dialogue with employee representatives 
contribute to the smooth running of 
operations and promote compliance with 
regulations on employee rights. Many of 
our employees are represented by unions 
or equivalent bodies, or are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements.
Attracting talent and encouraging 
education —  At Ravenswood, our team 
has been working to solve a shortage of 
skilled candidates by partnering with 
a local college, West Virginia University 
Parkersburg. The plant welcomed 10 local 
students into a program called Constellium 
Track of Electrical or Mechanical Trades. 
After two years, they will graduate with 
associate degrees, and hopefully pursue 
their careers with us. 
At Muscle Shoals, Constellium signed 
a Memorandum of Understanding with 
the University of North Alabama in 2020, 
offering our employees a 20% discount 
on all undergraduate and graduate degree 
programs (online or traditional).
Valuing the abilities of all — At 
Constellium, we give equal opportunities 
to people with disabilities, and seek to 
adapt our work environments to their 
needs. Our sites in Signen, Gottemadingen 
and Defeld employ around 100 disabled 
employees in total, and provide equipment 
such as hearing aids, ergonomic chairs, 
and customized security shoes. In France, 
Constellium employs 84 disabled people 
at Issoire, also providing them with 
specialized equipment. Since 2019, Issoire 
has permitted employees with disabled 
children to work 80% of the time while 
receiving a full-time salary, and provides 
the same allowance to 14 disabled workers 
who are within three years of retirement. 
At C-TEC, we make an active effort to 
recruit disabled people, and to enhance 
prevention with ergonomic equipment. In 
2018, our Ussel site not only met France’s 
legal requirement (6% of employees with 
disabilities) but went further, working with 
local agencies to adapt jobs to different 
abilities. A year later, Ussel extended this 
commitment under a French program 
called "Recognizing the Qualities of 
Disabled Workers."
(1) Employees of joint-ventures are not included in the biannual employees survey and 2020 pulse survey.
55 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020PRODUCTS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONSOur policies and actions
Constellium’s Gender Diversity Pro -
gram — We have developed a Gender Diver -
sity Program with two task forces (in Europe 
and the U.S.) and four workstreams:
1) Recruitment and retention: including 
scholarships for female students in Sci -
ence, Technology, Engineering, and Math -
ematics classes in Ravenswood, U.S. We 
started implementing a minimum of 16 
weeks of maternity leave in 2020 across 
the Group, beginning in the U.S.
2) Career path and promotion: ensuring that 
talented women are recognized, creating a 
mentoring program, and promoting a flexi -
ble work environment. For the first time, we 
included a focus on female talent during our 
Global Talent Review discussions between 
HR and senior leadership, and started a 
mentorship program for high-potential fe -
male talent. 
3) Culture and work practices: providing a 
female-friendly environment, training against 
unconscious bias, promoting diversity through 
ongoing internal communication, organizing 
focus groups, and fostering networks. 4) Pay and merit pay equity: making pay 
adjustments where necessary and ensur -
ing pay equity when recruiting. We use a 
third-party company to benchmark new 
positions and promotions to verify exter -
nal market equity. Additionally, we conduct 
internal benchmarking to ensure equity 
among existing employees. 
Some new measures are already in place. 
During our Aluminium Stewardship Initia -
tive (ASI) Performance Standard audit at 
Singen Extrusion, the auditor noted one that 
we call “Meet and Talk.” Aimed specifically 
at the plant’s female employees, it covers 
topics such as women in the workforce 
and work-life balance. Female employees 
in management positions at Singen and 
Gottmadingen participated in a kick-off 
meeting.
Equality indicators at our French sites — 
French law now requires all companies with 
at least 50 employees to measure salary 
gaps between men and women through a 
gender equality index. All our sites in France 
have reported their index(1). Our Issoire and 
Neuf-Brisach sites both performed well 
in 2019, with overall scores of 86/100 and 
81/100 (both above the required minimum Diversity and equal opportunity 
employment are paramount 
at Constellium. We are taking 
proactive measures to create 
an organization that better 
represents society and where  
all are treated equitably .
Our challenges  
We are working resolutely to become a 
more diverse workplace, with equal respect 
for all, regardless of age, gender, race, 
disability, religion, or sexual orientation. 
While our industry has historically been 
male-dominated, we seek to correct this 
imbalance and embrace the added value of 
gender diversity.
Our goals include increased diversity in hir -
ing, support for female career development, 
more female representation in leadership 
positions, and salary equality.
GENDER   
DIVERSITY
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 56of 75/100). Both plants scored particu -
larly well on pay equality, promotions, and 
women’s salary increases. We are working 
to increase the number of women in man -
agement positions at sites and generally 
throughout the Group.
Expanding our diversity efforts —  Many 
programs were put on hold due to the pan -
demic, but we relaunched our gender diver -
sity efforts later in the year. These included 
giving employees access to our intranet 
e-learning courses and other educational 
materials covering unconscious bias, diver -
sity, and inclusion. We expect to expand the 
reach of the diversity committee with initia -
tives, such as racial diversity, that extend to 
other under-represented groups. We also 
created a focus group to assess our needs 
and provide recommendations on racial di -
versity within the organization. 
Our results
The percentage of women in our workforce 
remained stable at 13% in 2020. The pro -
portion of new hires who were women was 
higher than 20% in 2020, for the third year 
in a row.
(1) The index of each French site can be found on our website: https:/ /www.constellium.com/about-constellium/our-locationsFinding childcare can be a 
challenge, so Constellium Issoire 
teamed up with a local provider 
to ensure that its employees 
have someone to care for their 
children during the workday. 
“Les Petits Pas” (Little Steps) 
opened in 2020, next to the plant, 
and accommodates 20 children. The initiative is also a way to 
encourage gender diversity. “Our 
daughter has a full-time place 
in daycare, ” says one mother, 
Industrialization Engineer Flavie 
Questroy . “The peace of mind for 
parents is invaluable. ”
Flavie Questroy with her daughter
57CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020PRODUCTS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONSfor a shortfall during the crisis. 
Our community actions took other forms, too. 
Ravenswood gave a bench to the local commu -
nity as a veterans memorial. At Valais, when a 
customer donated a spare aluminium passen -
ger rail car to the plant, we asked local design 
students to decorate it. This work of art, paint -
ed with pictograms representing our activities, 
now welcomes all at the entrance to the site. 
One of our community programs took place 
in Morocco, where engineering students at 
the École Nationale Supérieure des Mines de 
Rabat are working to develop solar-powered 
electric vehicles. Our Issoire plant donated alu -
minium plates for one vehicle’s chassis, allow -ing the students to reduce the car’s weight so 
that it could travel greater distances. Employ -
ees from the Gottmadingen and Singen plants 
made wishes come true for kids at a local chil -
dren’s home.  Constellium asked the children 
to write up their Christmas wish lists, so that 
interested employees could buy them gifts. The 
presents were distributed to the children and 
young people in time for the holidays. In Paris, a 
former Constellium employee created a start -
up called Biscornu, giving people with disabili -
ties the opportunity to prepare organic dishes 
using imperfect produce and recipes from 
Michelin-starred chefs. Constellium hosted a 
tasting event in our cafeteria, giving Biscornu 
a great opportunity to promote its products. 
Constellium’s employees are 
reaching out beyond the walls of 
their workplaces to improve the lives 
of communities around the world.
Our challenges
We care about the well-being of communities 
around our sites, and make a point of hiring 
locally. We also engage our employees with in -
volvement in community events, where they 
can volunteer for programs from healthcare 
to education.
Our policies and actions
One target of our 2021 sustainability pro -
gram is for each Constellium site to con -
duct at least one community program or 
event per year. Due to Covid-19, many of 
our 2020 events had to be postponed or 
canceled. However, we were still able to 
support communities around us in a num -
ber of ways. At the peak of the pandem -
ic, several sites made donations to local 
hospitals. Valais donated Tyvek® cover -
alls to help manage shortages related to 
Covid-19. Neuf-Brisach and Bowling Green 
gave masks, while Ravenswood hosted a 
blood drive. Both the Plymouth site and 
C-TEC produced hand sanitizer to make up 
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2019 2020
At least one  
community activity  
per site every year% of sites with at least  
one community program  
or event83%
of sites conducted a community 
program or event60%
of sites conducted a community 
program or event  (1)SUPPORTING OUR LOCAL  
COMMUNITIES
OUR RESUL TS
Engineering students at the École Nationale Supérieure des Mines in Rabat 
developing solar-powered electric vehicles with support from our Issoire plant 
in January 2020.
(1) Joint-ventures are excluded.CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 202058We are also focusing on the working condi -
tions of our transportation suppliers. With a 
complex supplier network comprising 22,000 
truck deliveries per year , Neuf-Brisach was 
identified as high risk and selected as a pilot 
for the Group. To be a supplier at Neuf-Brisach,  
a company must now sign the Constellium 
Supplier Code of Conduct and safety proto -
cols. When a truck arrives onsite, the front 
desk verifies the driver’s identity, a valid sec -
ondment certificate, and signature of the 
safety protocol. If any of these conditions is 
not met, the truck is refused entry and the 
supplier is penalized. Finally, the Covid-19 pandemic tested the 
capacity of companies around the world 
to ensure employees’ health and safety. 
At Constellium, our rigorous response al -
lowed us to keep our sites open while pro -
tecting our people. 
For the second phase of our human rights 
action plan, we will interview internal and ex -
ternal stakeholders to confirm that we are on 
the right path.Guided by our commitment to 
respect the dignity of all people and 
communities, we are vigilant about 
anticipating risks and protecting 
individual rights of all kinds. 
Constellium’s human rights heat map
Our heat map identifies the human rights that are at 
risk of the most severe negative impact through 
Constellium's activities or business relationships.Our challenges
Constellium has taken stringent measures to 
identify potential risks to human rights and 
strengthen our policies for the Company , our 
partners, and our suppliers. 
Our policies and actions
Our human rights policy is aligned with the 
United Nations Guiding Principles on Busi -
ness and Human Rights and the Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Performance 
Standard. In 2019, we organized a global 
workshop to identify potential human rights 
risks. We found that the greatest risks were in 
our supply chain and among our onsite con -
tractors. In our own operations, we identified 
risks such as health and safety , environmental 
impact, and discrimination related to a lack of 
diversity, specifically gender diversity. 
After organizing the risks into a heat map, de -
termining the likelihood and severity of each, 
we presented the map to the Executive Com -
mittee and then developed a two-phase ac -
tion plan to mitigate them. For the first phase, 
we are addressing risks in our supply chain via 
our Responsible Supply Chain Management 
Policy and the ASI. We are acting against 
discrimination with our diversity task force 
(see page  56) and by providing training 
on our Worldwide Code of Employee and 
Business Conduct, including an e-learning 
course that integrates human rights and 
labor principles. 
112345
2 3 4 5Severity
LikelihoodInternships & 
apprenticeshipsTransport 
suppliers' 
working 
conditionsSmelters in 
high-risk 
countries
Bauxite 
mining
Child labor in 
scrap metal 
(mainly used 
beverage cans)
Onsite contractors, 
working conditions  
& fair wages
IT suppliers' 
working 
conditionsNon-
discriminationFreedom of 
associationWorking hoursEmployee 
burnoutData 
privacyEmployee 
conductHealth & 
Safety
Environmental 
impacts of 
plants
Business relationships
Own operationsRESPECTING  
HUMAN RIGHTS
Work-life
balance
59 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020W hile I was born and raised in Alabama, I 
traveled around the U.S. in my mid-to-late 
20s—eventually settling in Colorado for 
a few years and then in Florida for a few more. I 
moved back to my home state in 2018 when the 
Environmental Manager position opened up at 
Constellium in Muscle Shoals, AL. At the time, Muscle 
Shoals made up more than 50% of all Constellium’s 
landfilled waste worldwide. We knew we had a 
problem, but tracking the waste was limited and the 
effort just was not there. A core team was built, and 
we hired a company called Waste Connections that 
seeks out different recycling avenues. 
Here, it’s much more expensive to recycle than to 
landfill. The cost is in the transportation—we’ve 
had to send some waste four states over to recycle 
it. But having support from Constellium’s leadership 
has meant the world, and we have worked diligently 
to ﬁnd new avenues. We accept a lot of pallets, and 
they weigh a lot, increasing the price of landﬁll. Now, 
we send them to a local company that turns them 
into wood pellets for heat. We found a company in 
T ennessee that refines waste oil, and another that 
takes refractory brick and crushes it into aggregate 
for roadbeds. 
We’re trying to change the culture on the shop ﬂoor, 
too. Recycling in the city has only been around for ﬁve 
to ten years, so to ask a facility of 1,200 individuals to 
start recycling when they’ve never thought about it 
in their lives was a challenge. We realized that to get 
people to care, we had to hit home. We are right on the 
T ennessee River , and people in Alabama really love 
the outdoors and care about the river that they enjoy 
using. So we put hundreds of posters throughout the 
plant talking about waste segregation and why it was 
important for them. We’ve had multiple trainings, 
continuous focus on TV monitors, competitions, and 
color-coded recycling bins. We reduced landfilled 
waste by about 7,000 tons in 2020, with a 10% increase 
in production. And, we’ve gone from recycling 
3,000  tons in 2018 to around 10,000 in 2020.  
I believe people will do the right thing if they are 
given the appropriate knowledge, and if you can 
make it easy for them. we’ve gone  
from recycling  
3,000 tons of  
waste in 2018  
to around 10,000  
 in 2020.”
BENJAMIN YANCEY
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGER
MUSCLE SHOALS, U.S.Through data collection, better waste 
segregation, improved reuse or recycling of 
waste, technology,  and teamwork, we  aim 
to significantly reduce what we send to 
landfill. Since waste is the result of various 
streams depending on the activity , size, and 
location of our plants, we have different 
targets and organizations at each of our 
sites. We focus mostly on seven plants that 
generate over 95% of production waste sent 
to landfill: Muscle Shoals,  Ravenswood, and 
Van Buren (U.S.); Issoire,  Neuf-Brisach, and 
Ussel (France); and Deˇcˇín (Czech Republic). 
Generating less landfilled waste can only 
be achieved with plant-wide efforts. For 
instance, installing sorting bins is not 
enough; we must ensure that our employees 
use them correctly.  
There are  still  two big challenges that we 
are addressing  along  with our partners and 
networks.  The first concerns production 
waste categories for which there is currently 
no identified technical recycling solution. 
The second is our ability to recycle municipal 
waste, which relies on local recycling facilities.  We succeeded in reducing  
the amount of landﬁlled waste   
we generated in 2020, thanks 
to several different initiatives  
at our various sites. 
Our challenges
Due to the nature of our industry  and some of 
our operations,  several of our sites produce 
landfilled waste.  We seek  to minimize  this 
waste  and  have the smallest possible 
environmental footprint.  
Our policies and actions
Our EHS  FIRST  policy  and EHS  Directives and 
Guidelines  provide a framework  for environ -
mental management across our sites,  including 
programs for landfilled waste and increased  ma-
terial reuse and recycling.  For years,  Constellium 
has been recycling more than 80% of its waste.
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2019 2020
Reduce production waste 
(construction waste  
excluded) going to landﬁll  
by 10% vs. 2015% variation of quantity of 
production waste sent 
to landﬁll -7.1% 
vs. 2018(1)-33%
vs. 2015LIMITING LANDFILLED  
WASTE  
(1) This was still  above 2015  levels due to better reporting of waste and the introduction of new sites.  OUR RESUL TS 
We achieved our 2020 target of 10% 
landfilled production waste reduction versus 
2015, by sending 33% less production waste 
to landfill than in 2015. A number of sites 
made good progress, irrespective of a drop 
in production due to Covid-19. One site 
that made excellent progress was Muscle Shoals, where workers vastly improved 
segregation of the main types of waste, 
thereby increasing the capacity for recycling 
solutions. A contracted supplier brought in 
to manage the waste found ways to recycle 
refractory bricks, sludge oil, and flue gas. 
Trash sent to landfill from the site decreased by more than 60% versus 2019, and recycling 
of wood pallets increased by a factor of 4. 
Ravenswood also initiated a program to 
better segregate waste and address flue gas 
dust, with a new recycling committee that is 
boosting employee awareness and putting 
recycling stations at individual work centers. 
Sorting bins at our Muscle  
Shoals plant play a key role in 
better waste segregation
61 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020PRODUCTS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONSCURTAILING ENERGY USE AND  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Our challenges
Climate change is one of the biggest envi -
ronmental, social, and economic challenges 
we all face. We recognize the effect of hu -
man activity on the climate, and understand 
the need to limit and reduce greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions. In our sector, there is a di -
rect link between energy consumption and 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. Our opera -
tions—such as casting, rolling, extrusion, 
and other manufacturing—consume signif -
icant amounts of energy. We are fully com -
mitted to improving our efficiency in the use 
of natural resources, especially for energy 
production, and will accomplish this most -
ly through continuous improvement in our 
manufacturing processes and equipment.
Our policies and actions
Working to improve our energy efﬁciency — 
We have been monitoring and disclosing our 
energy efficiency performance for many 
years. Energy efficiency is instrumental to 
the way we operate our plants, and we track 
it on a quarterly basis via the Constellium 
EHS reporting process. Our energy 
efficiency program is vital to reducing our 
GHG emissions. Acting to improve our energy efficiency 
takes place at many levels. On a global scale, 
we work on logistics and tools, workload 
improvement, advanced maintenance 
practices, monitoring energy consumption, 
and asset and investment management 
(including energy-related criteria). Locally, 
we focus on improving individual process 
efficiency and making use of the best 
available techniques when replacing a part 
or a piece of equipment (e.g., variable motor 
drives, LED lighting).
Overall, the Covid-19 crisis negatively af -
fected our energy efficiency ratio, because 
of a reduction in production and the disrup -
tion of our industrial workload optimization. 
These conditions made our 10% energy 
efficiency improvement goal impossible 
to achieve in 2020, and we decided to post -
pone it to 2021.
Addressing GHG emissions directly and 
indirectly —  We monitor and disclose our 
GHG emissions, and have been doing so 
for years. In 2020, our total GHG emissions 
decreased along with a decline in production 
volumes due to Covid-19.
Our energy efficiency program is one key 
lever to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions, since most of our GHG emis -
sions are related to energy use. Thanks to 
this program, we saved more than 51,000 
metric tons of CO2-equivalent emissions in 
2020 as compared to 2015. 
T o go beyond our current 2025 GHG emissions 
intensity target and achieve climate neutrality We seek to cut greenhouse gas 
emissions by reducing the energy 
consumption of our operations 
and products. Though Covid-19 
interrupted our progress in 2020, 
we will pursue our multipronged 
approach to get back on track. 
GHG CASE STUDY
At our site in Neuf-Brisach, 
France, we replaced heavy fuel 
oil with natural gas in our last 
furnace still using this polluting 
fuel. This substitution will create 
an annual net reduction of GHG 
emissions by about 3,500 t CO2 eq., 
and also drastically reduce 
air pollution, particularly SOx 
emissions. We expect to see the 
full benefits in 2021.
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 62ENERGY EFFICIENCY  
CASE STUDY
Focusing on major projects is not our only way to improve 
energy efﬁciency . We can also do so by paying close attention 
to practices at our sites, both large and small. For instance,  
in 2020, we studied how to optimize the energy use of electric 
motors at the extrusion workshop of our plant in Montreuil-
Juigné, France. By analyzing our actual energy needs and 
replacing old, oversized motors with smaller and more efﬁcient 
ones, we saved more than 400 MWh/yr of energy .
“Everyone now realizes that improving 
our energy efﬁciency does not mean 
sacriﬁcing quality or productivity—we can 
refurbish our equipment in a proﬁtable 
way. It is an exciting time to be an engineer, 
ﬁnding creative solutions to long-standing 
challenges concerning emissions and 
energy efﬁciency . ”
Patrick Malewicz, 
Group Director of Engineering
Scope 1: direct emissions from sources we own or control
Scope 2: indirect emissions from production of the energy we purchase (electricity)2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.700
0.600
0.500
0.400
0.300
0.200
0.100
0
  Scope 1          Scope 2          Scope 1+2        2025 targetGREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY ( t CO2 eq. / t of sales ) 
0.808
0.8000.900
0.818 0.8000.7700.7440.7321,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ( kt CO2 eq.) 757
755
754
752
745
680
 2015      2016      2017     2018      2019      2020  438
447
431
429
438
367
1,194
1,203
1,185
1,181
1,183
1,047
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1+2
63 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020PRODUCTS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONSby 2050, we launched a project to define our 
2030 objectives and strategy. The project in -
volves key managers and functions across our 
company . It also addresses indirect impacts 
on climate change resulting from upstream 
and downstream activities outside our own.
Improving the life cycle performance of end 
products is an important way to reduce 
emissions indirectly . First, we work on better 
product design—for example, lighter parts 
for cars and other vehicles to reduce fuel 
consumption. Second, we recycle pre- and 
post-consumer aluminium scrap, since recycling emissions are much lower than 
those from primary metal production. Life 
cycle analyses demonstrate the benefits of 
both approaches. 
Beyond these actions, we offer services to 
optimize the value chain in other areas. For 
instance, thanks to our machining facilities 
at our aerospace plants, we are able to pro -
vide pre-machined parts, allowing our cus -
tomers to generate less scrap. The off-cuts 
and chips generated by pre-machining are 
then recycled at our plants, thus limiting CO2 
emissions linked to transportation. From a life cycle perspective, one element to 
consider is that most of the aforementioned 
benefits occur outside of our plants while  
increasing our own GHG emissions (Scope 
1 and 2). Established GHG reporting frame -
works do not account for avoided emissions, 
due to potential issues with double counting. 
However, we find that disregarding certain 
avoided emissions is problematic for compa -
nies, such as Constellium, that are engaged 
in recycling and other positive actions at the 
price of higher emissions in their own purview.
OUR RESUL TS
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2019 2020
10% energy efﬁciency 
improvement vs. 2015% variation of energy  
efﬁciency vs. 2015+6.4% 
vs. 2015, the equivalent of  
370 GWh in energy savings+3.3% 
vs. 2015, the equivalent of  
171 GWh in energy savings
2025 TARGET INDICATOR 2019 2020
A 25% reduction in 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions  
intensity vs. 2015% variation of Scope 1 and 2 
emissions intensity vs. 2015-7%
reduction vs. 2015-9%
reduction vs. 2015Energy efﬁciency — In 2020, our energy effi -
ciency results were impacted by the effects of 
the Covid-19 crisis, erasing years of progress. 
A decrease in production volumes disrupted 
our industrial workload optimization, leading 
to lower energy efficiency. We expect a partial 
recovery in 2021, but uncertainties remain, and 
we cannot be certain of reaching our target by 
the end of the year . In spite of these unfavorable 
conditions, we will not let up on our efforts. GHG emissions —  Our GHG emission 
intensity continued to decrease in 2020, 
despite a decline in energy efficiency. 
While a decrease in our GHG emissions 
was due mostly to a fall in production, it 
also came about thanks to improvement in 
the electricity carbon footprint at some of 
our sites, and to certain changes we made, 
such as ending the use of heavy fuel oil in 
our Neuf-Brisach facility  (see case study on page 62). We remain confident that we will 
meet our 2025 goal. We also improved our 
score from the Carbon Disclosure Project, 
an environmental reporting nonprofit, 
from C in 2019 to B in 2020. This further 
demonstrates our commitment to actively 
address climate change, and our efforts at 
transparency.
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 64device, we plan to extend the system to the 
plant’s other furnaces by 2021. 
Our water use is driven mainly by cooling 
operations during metal casting and rolling 
activities. Since 2015, we have decreased 
our water consumption slightly while our 
production has increased. In 2020, however, 
the decrease came about mainly because 
of a production decline, and did not reflect any long-term trends. One site, Issoire, did 
make remarkable efforts to reduce its water 
consumption in 2020, beyond the decline 
that resulted indirectly from the pandemic. 
It did so by hunting for leaks, tracking water 
consumption at management level, and 
modifying the casthouse cooling circuit 
to a closed loop system. (Refer to page 80 
for detailed data on Constellium's water 
withdrawal, consumption, and discharge).
Through R&D and process 
improvements, we are tackling 
the challenge of driving down 
emissions while maintaining 
or increasing productivity . 
Though 2020 was an unusual 
year, we still found new ways to 
sustainably reduce emissions.
Our challenges
Air and water emissions are an inherent 
part of our production process, and we are 
constantly looking for ways to lower them. 
Our policies and actions
Two recent projects at our French plants 
have decreased our air emissions and 
illustrate our commitment to keeping them 
at a minimum. 
At Neuf-Brisach, an R&D project led by our 
C-TEC Technology Center reduced volatile 
organic compounds (VOC) emitted during 
recycling activities by a factor of 10. After a 
successful pilot program with one recycling 
furnace in 2019, we expanded the initiative 
to the rest of the recycling units in 2020. We 
were pleased to see that we could reduce 
VOC emissions from all gas-fired recycling 
furnaces without productivity losses, 
major capital expenditures, or increased 
operational costs. Recycling process man -
age  ment and industrial process expertise 
were key to this result.
We significantly reduced air emissions 
at Issoire with a new filtering and real-
time monitoring system in the casthouse. 
Following the successful results of the first 
“The VOC reduction project at Neuf-
Brisach was all the more successful 
in that it did not compromise 
productivity or require a major 
investment. Improved use of the 
current installation will give us even 
better results. ” 
Ludovic Jacob, 
Energy and Environment Engineer 
and project leader,
Neuf-Brisach, France MINIMIZING AIR EMISSIONS
AND MANAGING WATER
65 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020PRODUCTS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONSConﬂict minerals compliance — Constellium 
fully complies with conflict minerals 
regulations. We have implemented due 
diligence measures and communicate the 
corresponding information on our website(1). 
Supplier assessments —  We aim to have 
70% of total Group spending go through a 
sustainability assessment or audit; in 2020 
we achieved a rate of 64% and are on track. 
We request our key suppliers to perform a 
self-assessment every three years using 
the EcoVadis platform. When suppliers 
have language issues with the platform, 
we offer an alternative self-assessment 
questionnaire. Constellium’s procurement 
teams are specially trained to bring our 
suppliers on board and offer them guidance 
throughout the assessment and auditing 
processes. With our encouragement, 
17 additional suppliers completed the 
assessment in 2020, despite the disruption INSISTING UPON SUSTAINABLE  
PROCUREMENT
We pursue sustainability  
at every step of our business, 
including our supply chain.  
By collaborating closely with our 
suppliers and ensuring they meet 
our rigorous standards, we foster 
the contribution of aluminium  
to a sustainable society.
Used beverage cans arriving 
by train at our Neuf-Brisach 
plant, France.Our challenges
Sustainability assessments have shown 
us that the most significant social and 
environment impacts of our business come 
from our supply chain rather than our own 
operations. As we aim for greater sustain -
ability throughout our business, Constellium 
expects our suppliers to comply with all 
applicable laws and to respect sustainable 
practices. 
Our policies and actions 
Signing off on our Code —  We have aligned 
Constellium’s Responsible Supply Chain 
Management Policy and Supplier Code of 
Conduct with the principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact. Both documents 
apply to our suppliers, consultants, contrac -
tors, business partners, and agents. Their 
proper implementation depends upon the 
commitment of all parties, various audits and 
assessments, and continuous improvement. 
We expect all our contracted suppliers to sign 
our Supplier Code of Conduct, and to respect 
and uphold its terms in all of their business 
operations relating to the environment, 
society, business ethics, human rights, and 
labor practices.of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Whenever suppliers’ assessments deliver 
substandard results, we ask them to take 
corrective measures, and then validate their 
actions via the EcoVadis platform. In certain 
instances, we follow up with an onsite assess -
ment. For suppliers whose sectors or locations 
put them at risk of divergent practices (at-risk 
suppliers), we perform onsite audits. 
More recycled inputs and less greenhouse 
gas (GHG)  — We undertake a range of other 
measures to support our sustainability efforts 
in procurement, notably by increasing the 
amount of recycled aluminium in our products 
and reducing the GHG emissions that result 
from sourcing. In 2020, we launched several 
projects to support these goals: increasing 
the use of scrap in our metal input, evaluating 
GHG emissions connected to primary metal 
sourcing, using more metal certified by the 
(1) https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/disclosure-and-certifications 
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 66(1) We have about 200 key and at-risk suppliers; key suppliers means those from whom we purchase the most.Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), and 
favoring renewable energies. 
We also make our voice heard by participat -
ing in various associations around the world. 
Our metal procurement team is represent -
ed in European and U.S. Aluminium Associ -
ations, and in the London Metal Exchange 
Aluminium Committee. We contributed our 
experience to the development of European 
Aluminium’s “Responsible Sourcing Toolkit” 
and spoke on the panel of ASI’s Responsible 
Sourcing webinar in June 2020. 
Proudly supporting the Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative — Constellium has 
participated actively in the ASI since 
its founding, as we firmly believe this 
independent third-party certification 
system is key to our responsible supply 
chain management. We are involved with 
several of the ASI working groups that feed 
the Standards Committee with proposals 
for the upcoming standards revision. We 
also work with aluminium suppliers to help 
them with their certification processes.“Our relationships with key suppliers  
are strong and long-lasting, and the team  
has been able to accomplish much in recent 
years. Our program is advanced for our  
industry . This puts us in a strong position,  
as sustainability is a major consideration  
for many of our customers. Going forward,  
we must continue our efforts in supplier  
due diligence and ASI Standards, recycled 
input, and GHG emissions reduction,  
so we can defend our market position  
in a competitive environment. ”
Marcus Becker, 
Vice President & Chief Procurement Officer
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2019 2020
Evaluate sustainability 
performance of key & at-risk 
suppliers that represent 
70% of Group’s annual 
spending% of Group spending  
on evaluated suppliers38 new EcoVadis assessments 
performed by suppliers
  
2 onsite audits conducted  
by Constellium64% 
of Group spending in 2019
Ensure all contracted  
suppliers sign our 
Supplier Code 
of Conduct% of key and at-risk suppliers(1)
who signed our Supplier 
Code of Conduct>50% 82%OUR RESUL TS
67 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020PRODUCTS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONSOur policies and actions
In 2019, ASI recognized Singen’s casting and 
rolling facilities with its Performance and 
Chain of Custody standards. In 2020, we 
worked on certification for Neuf-Brisach and 
three German sites supplying the automotive 
industry: Singen Extrusion, Gottmadingen, 
and Dahenfeld. Some best practices were 
highlighted during the audit, such as an 
Employee Assistance Program at Singen 
Extrusion, created in close cooperation with 
the local works council. Another example of 
best practices is our group-level process for 
capital projects. During the audit at Neuf-
Brisach, we demonstrated that our process 
follows ASI guidelines (impact assessment 
on environment, health and safety, social 
perspectives), and we added gender 
analysis in 2020. The ASI standard includes 
biodiversity criteria, and an important 
feature at Neuf-Brisach is its 110  hectares 
of forest. Neuf-Brisach has a forest man -
agement plan in place and renews it every 
10 years; a new impact assessment study 
was launched in 2019. 
 ACTIVELY SUPPORTING THE  
ALUMINIUM STEWARDSHIP INITIATIVE  
Constellium is a founding 
member of the Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative (ASI), 
a global nonproﬁt standards 
setting and certiﬁcation 
organization for the aluminium 
value chain. Companies receive 
certiﬁcation by respecting 
environmental, social, and 
governance principles. 
Our challenges
The aluminium value chain is complex, 
with environmental and social challenges 
at many stages. We need a framework such 
as ASI certification to address risks in our 
supply chain, and to certify our own sites 
so that we can deliver independently ver -
ified, responsibly produced aluminium to 
our customers. 
2019 TARGET(1)INDICATOR 2019 2020
Have at least one site 
ASI-certiﬁedNumber of 
ASI-certiﬁed sitesASI certiﬁed Singen’s casting  
and rolling operations with 
Perfor  mance and Chain of  
Custory standards  Neuf-Brisach, Singen Extrusion, 
Gottmadingen, and Dahenfeld are 
certiﬁed against Performance and 
Chain of Custody standards“ ASI certiﬁcation is no longer 
simply a ‘nice’ thing to have,  
but has become mandatory  
for most customers.  
The Performance Standard  
and Chain of Custody Standard  
are two different frameworks.  
Both require teamwork, but 
different expertise. The success 
of this speciﬁc management 
system comes from integrating 
it into our existing one. ” 
Carole Peltre, 
ASI Project Manager and Metal Manager, 
Neuf-Brisach, France 
OUR RESUL TS
In 2020, Singen Rolling and Casting 
started to deliver ASI-certified coils to 
our customers, and Singen Extrusion, 
Gottmadingen, Dahenfeld, and Neuf-
Brisach received both ASI certifications. It 
is worth noting that Neuf-Brisach recycles 
a significant quantity of post consumer aluminium scrap. These are automatically 
considered ASI-certified metal as long 
as we perform reasonable due diligence, 
meaning that Neuf-Brisach can provide our 
customers with ASI-certified metal from 
end-of-life recycling in addition to sourcing 
it from suppliers. As for our metal suppliers,  we encourage them to become ASI members 
or gain certification. As we continue seeking 
certification for other sites, we are actively 
involved in the ASI Standards revision 
process, with a presence on the Standards 
Committee and participation in several 
working groups. 
(1) As an ASI member, we committed to certify at least one of our sites by the end of 2019
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 68PERFORMANCE  
REPORTConsolidated income statement • Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position • Consolidated 
statement of cash ﬂows • Share information • Cross reference table • United Nations Global 
Compact Communication on Progress • Sustainability performance • GRI content index • Report 
of the independent third partyCONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
Note: More detailed information on our financial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at:  
https://www.constellium.com/investors/sec-filingsFINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(in millions of euros)Year ended 
December 31, 2020Year ended 
December  31, 2019 Year ended 
December  31, 2018
Revenue 4,883 5,907 5,686
Cost of sales (4,393) (5,305) (5,148) 
Gross profit 490 602 538
Selling and administrative expenses (237) (276) (247)
Research and development expenses (39) (48) (40) 
Other gains and losses - net (89) (23) 153
(Loss) / income from operations 125 255 404
Finance costs - net (159) (175) (149)
Share of income / (loss) of joint ventures — 2 (33)
(Loss) / income before income tax (34) 82 222
Income tax benefit / (expense) 17 (18) (32)
Net (loss) / income (17) 64 190
Net (loss) / income attributable to:
Equity holders of Constellium (21) 59 188
Non-controlling interests 4 5 2
Net (loss) / income (17) 64 190
Earnings per share attributable 
to the equity holders of Constellium
(in euros per share)Year ended 
December 31, 2020Year ended 
December  31, 2019Year ended 
December  31, 2018
Basic (0.15) 0.43 1.40
Diluted (0.15) 0.41 1.37
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 70(in millions of euros)As of December 31, 
2020As of December  31, 
2019
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 439 184
Trade receivables and other 406 474
Inventories 582 670
Other financial assets 39 22
1,466 1,350
Non-current assets
Property, plants and equipment 1,906 2,056
Goodwill 417 455
Intangible assets 61 70
Investments accounted for under the equity method 1 1
Deferred tax assets 193 185
Trade receivables and other 67 60
Other financial assets 18 7
2,663 2,834
TOTAL ASSETS 4,129 4,184
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade payables and other 905 999
Borrowings 92 201
Other financial liabilities 46 35
Income tax payable 20 14
Provisions 23 23
1,086 1,272
Non-current liabilities
Trade payables and other 32 21
Borrowings 2,299 2,160
Other financial liabilities 41 23
Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 664 670
Provisions 98 99
Deferred tax liabilities 10 24
3,144 2,997
TOTAL LIABILITIES 4,230 4,269
Equity
Share capital 3 3
Share premium 420 420
Retained deficit and other reserves (538) (519)
Equity attributable to equity holders of Constellium (115) (96)
Non-controlling interests 14 11
TOTAL EQUITY (101) (85)
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,129 4,184CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
71 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020(in millions of euros)Year ended 
December 31, 2020Year ended 
December  31, 2019Year ended 
December  31, 2018
Net (loss) / income (17) 64 190
Adjustments
Depreciation and amortization 259 256 197
Impairment of assets 43 — —
Pension and other post-employment benefits service costs 34 27 (10)
Finance costs—net 159 175 149
Income tax (benefit) / expense (17) 18 32
Share of (income) / loss of joint ventures — (2) 33
Unrealized (gains) / losses on derivatives—net and from 
remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities—net (18) (33) 86
Losses / (gains) on disposal 4 3 (186)
Other—net 19 16 14
Change in trade working capital
Inventories 63 57 (9)
Trade receivables 36 104 (145)
Trade payables (38) (31) (27)
Other (10) 9 (58)
Change in provisions 1 (2) (2)
Pension and other post-employment benefits paid (53) (50) (46)
Interest paid (140) (158) (129)
Income tax refunded / (paid) 9 (6) (23)
Net cash flows from operating activities 334 447 66
Purchases of property, plants and equipment (182) (271) (277)
Property, plant and equipment grants received 5 — —
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired — (83) —
Proceeds from disposals, net of cash 1 2 200
Equity contribution and loan to joint ventures — — (24)
Other investing activities — (1) 10
Net cash flows used in investing activities (176) (353) (91)
Proceeds from issuance of Senior Notes 290 — —
Repayment of Senior Notes (200) (100) —
(Repayments) / proceeds from U.S. revolving credit facilities (129) 105 (67)
Proceeds from other borrowings 202 8 —
Repayments from other borrowings (10) (4) (1)
Lease repayments (35) (86) (15)
Payment of financing costs (9) — —
Transactions with non-controlling interests — (4) —
Other financing activities (8) 5 1
Net cash flows from / (used in) financing activities 101 (76) (82)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 259 18 (107)
Cash and cash equivalents—beginning of year 184 164 269
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (4) 2 2
 Cash and cash equivalents—end of year 439 184 164CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 72  Free ﬂoat          T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc.          Bpifrance  
   Janus Henderson Group plcSHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE 
(AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2020)
70.5%
12.4%5.4%
11.7%AVERAGE NUMBER OF DAILY SHARES 
TRADED IN 2020
1.4   million  
sharesSHARE PRICE EVOLUTION IN 2020 IN US$
15
12
9
6
3
JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUNE JULY AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC
73 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020This report includes our consolidated statement of non-financial performance prepared in accordance with article L.225-102-1, II  
of the French Commercial Code, to disclose how the Group takes into account social and environmental consequences of its 
activities. The table below points out sections of this report containing information provided as part of the consolidated statement 
of non-financial performance.  Our sustainability risk analysis concluded that certain risks are not material to our business and, 
therefore, such risks are not addressed in our consolidated sta tement of non-financial performance. In particular, taking the n ature 
of our business into account, we consider that combatting food waste, combatting food insecurity, respect for animal welfare an d 
responsible, fair and sustainable food policy do not constitute  high risks for Constellium and do not justify a specific develo pment in 
our consolidated statement of non-financial performance. 
Topic of the consolidated statement 
of non-financial performanceSection of this report Pages
The Group’s business model CEO Interview, A global sector leader, Pursuing a comprehensive strategy, 
Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium, Performance report 
(financial and human resources data)4-5, 
7-12
70-73
76
How the Group takes into account social and 
environmental consequences of its activitiesPursuing a comprehensive strategy, Creating value throughout the life cycle 
of aluminium, Governance
Sustainability Report8-9, 12, 
16-18, 
40-68, 
74-88
Climate change consequences of the company’s 
business and use of the goods and services it producesAnalyzing environmental impacts with life cycle assessment, Developing 
products with environmental benefits, Championing recycling47-51
Societal commitments in favor of sustainable 
development and circular economy Analyzing environmental impacts with life cycle assessment, Developing 
products with environmental benefits, Championing recycling 47-51
Collective agreements within the Group and their 
impacts on the Group’s economic performance as well 
as on employees’ working conditionsAttracting, engaging and retaining the best people 54-55
Actions to combat discrimination and promote diversity Gender diversity 56-57
Measures taken to support people with disabilities Attracting, engaging and retaining the best people 55
Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed 
as an independent third party, on the consolidated 
statement of non-financial performance89
The report also contains information regarding our practical actions or plans to implement the United Nation Global Compact 
(UNGC) T en Principles in each of the four areas (human rights, labor , environment, anti-corruption), to which we are committed as a 
signatory of UNGC. The table below sets forth a correspondence among (i) the information to be provided in accordance with the UNGC 
Communication on Progress (COP) - GC Active, (ii) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index, and (iii) the relevant sections of this report.
UNGC Principles GRI Index Pages
CEO commitment of UNGC 5
HUMAN RIGHTS
Principle 1:   Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed  
human rights.
GRI 405-41413-18, 
22-23
56-59, 
66-68, 
77-78, 
86-87  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Principle 3:  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 
collective bargaining.
GRI 102-41,  
401-40913
55-57 , 
66-68, 
77-78
83, 86Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.
Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor.
Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
ENVIRONMENT
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.
GRI 301-30812,
14-18,
22-23, 
40-51, 
60-68, 
79-81, 
84-85Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.
Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
GRI 20517-18, 
42-43, 
84CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE
LABOR
ANTI-CORRUPTION
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 74Recycling  _ See pages  50-51 for more information
(1) Accounts for change in the calculation method of the beverage can recycling rate to reflect new EU definitions ALUMINIUM BEVERAGE CAN RECYCLING RATES
SAFETY - RECORDABLE CASE RATE(2)80
70
60
50
40
  Europe   
          U.S.   
25
20
15
10
5
(2) Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours 
worked. Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in these statistics since 2008. Before that, only extended contractors such as canteen 
and security staff were included. See pages  24 and 44 for more information about serious injuries. Constellium         European Aluminium        U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics – Aluminium8.4
6.7
4.9 3.8 3.5 3.22.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 3.3 3.22.3 2.48.4
200718.5
10.7
200619.0
7.2
200817.5
6.2
200918.5
6.3
201015
6.9
201114
7.8
201214
7.8
201313.5
9.2
201416
7.3
201510
7.1
20169
2019 2020 20188.210
8.5
20178.2
1.86.349.2%
200145.0%48.4%
200246.0%44.3%
200348.0%
45.1%
200448.0%
45%
200552.0%
45.3%
200658.0%
48.5%
200761.8%
48.2%
200863.1%
50.9%
200964.0%
49.7%
201066.7%
54.1%
201168.3%
54.2%
201269.5%
54.9%
201371.3%
56.7%
201472.9%
201554.5%73.6%
201649.4%72.8%(1)
201774.5%(1)
44%
201946.1%
Safety  _ See pages  22-23 for more information54.5%
200043.0%
201876.1%(1)
49.8%
75 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020People  _ See pages  54-59 for more information on People
Apprentice Permanent Fixed-termTemporary 
(agency, 
excluding 
contractors) Total
All Constellium
Number of employees with  
specific employment typeMale 220 - - -
Female 48 - - -
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - 9,581 375
437
Female - 1,428 67
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time 268 10,743 428
437
Part-time 0 266 14
TOTAL 12,156
TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 11,451
Europe    
Number of employees with  
specific employment typeMale 219 - - -
Female 46 - - -
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - 7, 0 2 0 317
398
Female - 952 52
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time 265 7,7 0 6 363
398
Part-time 0 266 6
TOTAL 9,004
TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 8,341
Asia    
Number of employees with  
specific employment typeMale 0 - - -
Female 0 - - -
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - 7 51
0
Female - 10 11
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time 0 17 54
0
Part-time 0 0 8
TOTAL 79
TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 79
North America (United States, Canada, and Mexico)   
Number of employees with  
specific employment typeMale 1 - - -
Female 2 - - -
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - 2,554 7
39
Female - 466 4
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time 3 3,020 11
39
Part-time 0 0 0
TOTAL 3,073
TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 3,031GRI 102-8 INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS
Does not include employees and workers of joint ventures
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 76Number of new  
employees hired  
in 2020Number of employees  
who left the company  
in 2020Number of  
employees on  
December  31, 2020Turnover rate  
F M F M F M F M
Europe
Under 30 years old 12 80 7 60 120 804 6% 7%
30-50 years old 45 123 36 196 584 3,704 6% 5%
Over 50 years old 2 23 19 192 248 2,512 8% 8%
TOTAL 59 226 62 448 952 7,020 7% 6%
North America
Under 30 years old 39 108 44 135 87 301 51% 45%
30-50 years old 51 166 91 272 237 1,268 38% 21%
Over 50 years old 18 65 39 155 142 985 27% 16%
TOTAL 108 339 174 562 466 2,554 37% 22%
All Constellium including Asia
Under 30 years old 51 188 51 195 207 1, 105 25% 18%
30-50 years old 97 289 127 471 828 4,977 15% 9%
Over 50 years old 20 88 59 347 393 3,499 15% 10%
TOTAL 168 565 237 1,013 1,428 9,581 17% 11%
(1)Turnover rate is calculated as number of employees who left the company in 2020, divided by the number of employees on December 31, 2020 
in the same category of region, age and gender.
(2) Employees of joint ventures and Asia are not material to Constellium’s total number of employees. GRI 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER(1) 
Permanent employees excluding those of joint ventures and Asia(2)  
(3) “Operators” refers to employees working on the shop floors; “managers” refers to employees with administrative or managerial roles .GRI 404-1 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE
Employees excluding those of joint ventures and Ravenswood
Female Male Managers(3)Operators(3)All employees
All Constellium
Average training hours per year/employee 15.6 13.8 16.2 13.6 14.1
GRI 405-1 DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES  
Permanent employees excluding those of joint ventures(4)
Female Male Total Age %
Board Members
Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0%
30-50 years old 1 0 1 9%
Over 50 years old 2 7 9 91%
TOTAL 3 7 10 100%
GENDER % 30% 70% 100%
77 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Job Levels Age Ranges Female Male Total % Age % Female % Male
All Constellium
Executive Committee MembersUnder 30 years old 0 0 0 0%
30-50 years old 0 2 2 20%
Over 50 years old 1 7 8 80%
SUBTOTAL 1 9 10 10% 90%
Vice Presidents & DirectorsUnder 30 years old 0 0 0 0%
30-50 years old 9 54 63 51%
Over 50 years old 6 55 61 49%
SUBTOTAL 15 109 124 12% 88%
Senior Managers / Senior Experts / 
Individual Contributors / Technical 
Master ExpertsUnder 30 years old 86 197 283 11%
30-50 years old 346 1,131 1,477 57%
Over 50 years old 136 684 820 32%
SUBTOTAL 568 2,012 2,580 22% 78%
Technicians & OperatorsUnder 30 years old 121 908 1,029 12%
30-50 years old 473 3,790 4,263 51%
Over 50 years old 250 2,753 3,003 36%
SUBTOTAL 844 7,451 8,295 10% 90%
TOTAL 1,428 9,581 11,009 13% 87%
Job Level(6)Ratio W to M
All Constellium
Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 100%
Senior Managers / Senior Experts / Individual Contributors / Technical Master Experts 83%
Technicians & Operators 99%GRI 405-2 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN AND MEN(5) 
Permanent employees excluding joint ventures
(5) Within the same category of employees, the ratios include a wide range of roles, geographic regions, and levels of experience.
(6) Vice Presidents / Senior Directors includes executive committee members; “Managers” refers to employees with administrative or managerial roles; “Operators” refers to em -
ployees working on the shop floors.(4) Employees of joint ventures are not material to Constellium’s total number of employees. 
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 78Operations  _ See pages  61-65 for more information on Operations
Constellium uses a significant share of recycled aluminium to manufacture our products. On average, recycled 
aluminium, calculated by following GRI 301 -2 guidance, accounted for over 40% of our metal input in 2020. Of 
this, 18% was post-consumer scrap (generated at the end-of-life phase of finished goods), and the rest was pre-
consumer production scrap (generated downstream from Constellium ’ s operations). This recycled material input 
does not account for internally generated scrap, in line with the ISO 14021 standard.
That being said, Constellium does not consider that recycled content should be singled out as the only relevant 
indicator for the environmental performance of aluminium products. We also focus on a product’s end-of-life 
recycling, to ensure that valuable resources are reliably and efficiently collected and recycled. 
For more on recycling and Constellium's advocacy on this topic, please consult our website at  
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/aluminium-recycling2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Direct energy (TJ)
Anthracite 500 522 389 408 346 326
LPG 15 15 15 14 15 13
Natural gas 13,274 13, 198 13,512 13,495 13,471 12,387
Diesel 120 118 116 115 107 85
Heavy fuel 163 154 152 155 119 39
Renewable sources 0 0 0 0 0 0
TOTAL 14,071 14,008 14,185 14,187 14,058 12,850
Indirect energy (TJ)
ElectricityPurchased 5,583 5,777 5,938 5,870 6,016 5,326
Sold 0 0 0 0 0 0
SteamPurchased 0 0 0 0 0 0
Sold 112 194 104 120 110 107
TOTAL DIRECT + INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ) 19,542 19,591 20,019 19,937 19,964 18,069
Raw energy consumption per metric ton is not necessarily the most relevant indicator of energy efficiency, because we need to take 
into account the effect of different product mixes. For instance, the manufacture of automotive sheet requires significantly more 
energy during rolling and finishing operations than beverage can body sheet. Therefore, increasing the share of one product over 
another will affect the overall energy per metric ton, independently of any other change. For this reason, we have identified the relative 
energy consumption per metric ton of different product lines and use this to transpose raw data on energy per metric ton into an 
energy efficiency index. This index reflects the intrinsic manufacturing performance of our operations, regardless of any changes  
in our product mix. See pages 62-63 for more information on our efforts to increase energy efficiency.FROM ENERGY CONSUMPTION TO ENERGY EFFICIENCYG R I  302-1 E N E R GY C O N S U M P T I O N  W I T H I N  T H E  O R G A N I Z AT I O N  I N  T E R A J O U L E  (TJ ) 
GRI 301-2 RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS USED
79 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020(1) Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD)  
(2) Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)30
25
20 
15
10
5
0
  2017      2018     2019      2020  GRI 303-3 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL IN MILLION CUBIC METERS
WATER FROM 
PUBLIC NET
0.40.4
0.4
0.4GROUND WATER
22.5
24.5
21SURFACE 
WATER
5.7
5.5
4.5TOTAL WATER
28.6
30.4
28.55.1
23
25.9
400
350
300
250
200
150 
100
50
0
 2017      2018     2019      2020  GRI 306-1 WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION IN METRIC TONS
The measurements are based on local legal requirements. Some sites don't cover all measurements.
BOD5 (1)  60.3
49.9
92.5TOTAL 
SUSPENDED 
SOLIDS   TOTAL 
FLUORIDES  11.8
12.9
17.3TOTAL  
HYDROCARBON  3.4
6.5
7.0DISSOLVED 
ALUMINIUM 3
4.1
2.7COD  (2)  287.2
232.9
356.22.6
5.8
14
103.2
96.9
111.3
93.6
123.9
315.3
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 80Waste (t) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Recycling  127 ,526   140,501 152,689 147 ,781 150,176 131,067
% Recycling 79% 76% 80% 80% 80% 83%
Incineration  6,304    8,781    7 ,375    6,243   6,036  4,397  
% Incineration 4% 5% 4% 3% 3% 3%
Landfill production  24,880    30, 151    28,569    27 ,560    25,738    16,770  
Landfill non-production(4) 3,206  4,266  3,404    3,623   4,730  5,844  
% Total landfill 17% 19% 17% 17% 16% 14%
Total Waste  161,916  183,699    192,037      185,207       186,680    158,077  
Total hazardous waste(5)  65,215     72,358     77,235       75,947    73,745    63,736  
Total non-hazardous waste   96,702        111,342     114,802    109,260    112,935    94,341  
(4) Non-production waste refers to waste generated from activities such as construction or demolition.
(5) Hazardous and non-hazardous waste categories are defined in accordance with the definition outlined in the EU Waste Framework Directive and harmonized with the U.S. 
waste classification1,000
750 
500
250
0
905
875
954
548
492
405
1,112
1,155
973244
248
216810
365
190
851GRI 305-7 NITROGEN OXIDES (NO X), SULFUR OXIDES (SO x), AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT  
AIR EMISSIONS IN METRIC TONS  
Air emissions are calculated based on one or two spot measurements per year. This can cause significant fluctuations from 
one year to another. The measurements are based on local legal requirements. Some sites don't cover all measurements.
CONSTELLIUM PRODUCTION WASTE SENT TO LANDFILL IN METRIC TONS  GRI 306-2 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD IN METRIC TONS  NOx PARTICULATE 
MATERIALSVOC  (3)SO2
 2017      2018     2019      2020  
(3) Volatile Organic Compounds Emissions (VOC)
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 202035,000
30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
24,880
30,151
28,569
27,560
25,607
 Target 2021
16,770
81 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Standard Description Section of this report/Additional information Pages
GRI 102 General disclosure
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Constellium SE (Constellium)
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium
A global sector leader
Our main brands are: Airware®, Sealium, Alumold®, Unidal, Herkal, HK34, 
Xtral 728, Diamal R, Diamal S, Alplan, Certal, Fortal, Alcast, Fibral, Surfalex®, 
Formalex®, Strongalex®, Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, 
Longlinefinish®, Securalex®, Constellium HSA6®, Constellium HCA6®, 
Modalex®, Butlerfinish®, Staybright®, Keikor®, Aeral®, Dokima®, Kool X®,  
@bright®, AHEADD®, and Gripster.8-9
7
102-3 Location of headquarters Paris, France
102-4 Location of operations A global sector leader 11
102-5 Ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with
the highest ethical standards and best practices, to be responsive to our 
shareholders and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide Code of 
Conduct. We are listed on NYSE under the ticker symbol ‘CSTM’. Shareholders as 
of December  31, 2020 – free float: 70.5%; T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. 12.4%; 
Bpifrance: 11.7%; Janus Henderson Group PLC   5.4%.
102-6 Markets served A global sector leader 11, 28-31, 
34-37
102-7 Scale of the organization Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium
A global sector leader8-9
7
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainability performance 76
102-9 Supply chain Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 8-9
102-10 Significant changes to the organization  
and its supply chainNone.  
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Sustainability Targets for 2021
Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets out the 
standard of behavior we expect from our employees: https:/ /www.
constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct46
102-12 External initiatives We are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact.
Memberships6, 74
88
102-13 Membership in associations Memberships 88
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Interview 6
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance
Our Sustainability Targets for 2021
Assessing material sustainability risks
Curtailing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions16-18
46
42-43
62-64
Ethics and integrity    
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms  
of behaviorCEO Interview 
Our values 
Governance - Policies
Actively supporting the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative
Insisting upon sustainable procurement
UNGC membership
Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets out the stand -
ard of behavior we expect from our employees.6
13
17-18
68
66-67
6, 74
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 
ethicsGovernance
Constellium's Integrity hotline is an independent service that provides a 
means for employees to anonymously and confidentially report violations of 
the Code of Conduct as well as other unethical, illegal or irresponsible deal -
ings via phone or web-form 24/7 . The hotline is available in all local languag -
es. All concerns are documented by the external hotline operator and shared 
with the assigned case manager in the respective country for investigation 
and resolution. In In 2020, we recorded 21 claims via the Hotline. 13 of the 
cases have been investigated and closed.16-18GRI CONTENT INDEX
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 82102-17
(suite)The remaining 8 cases remain open and actively under investigation. 
Employees and external parties also have the ability to raise concerns 
through other means as well, including our Ombudsman email, through 
our “Contact” option on our website and our corporate social media 
accounts. In 2020, our Compliance Committee reviewed 6 additional 
cases that were submitted outside of the Hotline. Of these cases, 4 were 
investigated and close, and 2 remain open and under active investigation. 
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Governance 16-20
Stakeholder engagement    
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Governance
Assessing material sustainability risks
Memberships19-20
42-43
88
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements In 2020, 84% of our total employees are covered by collective bargaining 
agreements (CBA); 94% of the employees at our non-U.S. locations are 
covered by CBA, while approximately 53% of U.S. employees are covered 
by CBA.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Governance
Assessing material sustainability risks
Actively supporting the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative19-20
42-43
68
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Staying one step ahead of market regulatory changes
Assessing material sustainability risks
Prioritizing customer satisfaction
Actively supporting the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative44
42-43
52
68
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Governance
Our Sustainability Targets for 2021
Assessing material sustainability risks17-18
46
42-43
Reporting practice    
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statementsAll entities owned by Constellium and all operating joint ventures
controlled by Constellium during reporting year 2020.
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Assessing material sustainability risks
In 2017 , we renewed and broadened our previous materiality
assessment performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most
to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are
aligned with this vision.
See pages  38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance 
Report for more, available at  https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/
files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf  42-43
102-47 List of material topics Assessing material sustainability risks
See pages  38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance 
Report for more, available at https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/
files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf  42-43
102-48 Restatements of information Past waste recycling, air emission and water discharge data were amended to 
account for identified reporting errors; Hazardous and non-hazardous waste data 
were adjusted due to harmonization of European and U.S waste classification in 
reporting process.
102-49 Changes in reporting None.
102-50 Reporting period About this report 93
102-51 Date of most recent report Issued in 2020. Available at https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/
files/constellium_business_sustainability_report_2019_1.pdf
102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 93
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 93
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option.
102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 82-87
102-56 External assurance Constellium’s non-financial performance statement (“déclaration de 
performance extra-financière”), included in this report (as specified on 
page 74), was verified by an independent third party, Pricewaterhouse -
Coopers Audit. The work of PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit was performed 
in accordance with the provisions of articles A. 225-1 et seq. of the French 
Commercial Code, determining the conditions under which an independent 
third party performs its engagement, and with the professional guidance 
of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such 
engagements, as well as with ISAE 3000 assurance engagements other 
than audits or reviews of historical financial information. 89
83 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Standard Description Section of this report/Additional information Pages
GRI 103 Management approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundaryAssessing material sustainability risks
In 2017 , we renewed and broadened our previous materiality
assessment performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most
to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are
aligned with this vision.
See pages  38-39 of our 2017 Business and sustainability performance
report for more, available at https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/
files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf  42-43
103-2 The management approach and its components Governance
Our Sustainability Targets for 202116-20
46
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance
Assessing material sustainability risks16-20
42-43
GRI 205 Anti-corruption
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related  
to corruptionAssessing material sustainability risks
We updated our corruption risk map after our Internal Audit and Control 
team led in-depth discussions with various functions and sites.42-43
205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresGovernance 
We communicate and train our Executive Committee and employees  
on anti-corruption through our Code of Conduct (CoC) training.
In 2020, several anti-corruption trainings have been delivered by our legal 
department at De ˇcˇín, Levice, Landau, Crailsheim, Burg, Singen, Issoire, 
Neuf-Brisach (purchasing department), and San Luis Potosí, as well as 
to central metal procurement teams based in Zurich and US. Additionally 
Fraud and Corruption Awareness training was provided by Internal Audit 
and Control team at Vigo and by Internal Control champions, at Bowling 
Green, Valais, Ravenswood, and Muscle Shoals. The “Fraud & Corruption 
training pack” is available on the Constellium intranet.
We have included anti-corruption principles in our Supplier Code of Conduct 
for our business partners, and clauses in contracts with our customers. We 
have also put a due diligence process in place for business partners.17-18
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption  
and actions takenNone recorded during the reporting year.
GRI 301 Materials
301-2 Recycled input materials used Average recycled aluminium input of 40% in 2020, of which 18% was 
post-consumer scrap, and the rest was pre-consumer scrap, following 
GRI Standard guidance "gri-standards-consolidated-2020.pdf", 
downloaded from https:/ /www.globalreporting.org/how-to-use-the-gri-
standards/resource-center/51
GRI 302 Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability performance 79
302-3 Energy intensity Curtailing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions 
Sustainability performance 62-64  
79
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption a.  Total energy savings: 616 TJ
b.  Savings by energy source: fossil fuels 245 TJ; Electricity 371 TJ
c.  Baseline year is 2015
d.  Use of internal calculation tool to assess what energy would have been 
used in the corresponding year by applying the 2015 energy/t ratio of 
each production unit and applying where necessary a correction factor 
to account for changes in product mix. 
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 
and servicesFor automotive and aerospace applications, we account for the reduction 
in a product's life cycle energy requirements due to the energy savings from 
using our aluminium products, compared to reference materials such as 
automotive steel or previous generations of aerospace aluminium alloys. 
An estimate based on life cycle assessment calculations leads to savings  
of over 25,000 TJ for products delivered in 2020, throughout their lifetime.
We plan to further expand this assessment in the future with a more 
complete coverage of our product range. 
We based our assumption on an estimate of mass saved in automotive  
and aerospace applications and used data from our LCA tool, following  
the ISO 14040-44 standard. We plan to further complete this assessment  
in the future with a more complete coverage of our product range.
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 84Standard Description Section of this report/Additional information Pages
GRI 303 Water and Effluents
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource a.  Use of water is mainly concentrated on cooling operations during metal casting 
(primarily) and rolling activity . Use of water is needed across the value chain 
(upstream for alumina refining, aluminium casting after smelting, electricity 
production, etc., and downstream for finishing operations).
b.  Use of water is being handled within the scope of our ISO  14001 certification.  
We also check the status of water risks using the online Aqueduct tool that  
we last ran in 2020. We plan to update this on a regular basis. 
c.  We request our key suppliers to be assessed regarding their sustainability 
performance, including water-related issues. Water-related aspects are also 
included in the scope of audits performed at suppliers' premises that are 
expected to be at higher risk. We aim to have 100% of our key and higher risk 
suppliers assessed by 2021. Along with other partners of the aluminium value 
chain, we engaged in the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), which built  
a standard for responsible aluminium. Water management issues are included  
in the ASI standard that was defined at the end of 2017. 
d.  There is currently no specific water-related goal. We rely on local environmental 
management to handle water-related topics as a function of local conditions 
(water availability and quality , local stakeholders such as environmental or water 
agencies, regulations…).80
303-2 Management of water  
discharge-related impactsWater discharge management is done according to local regulations and our own 
water management policy, and is included in the ISO  14001 certification scope of 
our plants. 80
303-3 Water withdrawal a.  Sustainability performance
b.  In 2020, water withdrawal from areas with water stress, according to the WRI 
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, was 18.6  megaliters. In all cases, the water source 
was municipal water.
c.  All displayed numbers relate to freshwater. No “other water” source was used.
d.  No assumptions used, data was collected from sites’ environmental management 
and consolidated in central database. 80
303-4 Water discharge Sustainability performance 80
303-5 Water consumption We considered water consumption volumes as water volumes released to a 
different water type (e.g. groundwater released to surface water). 
a.  Sustainability performance. All volumes are to be considered except those 
sourced from surface water, released in the same surface water system.
b.  In 2020, water withdrawal from areas with water stress was 18.6  megaliters.  
In all cases, the water source was municipal water.
c.  No significant water storage change. 
d.  Only four of our sites' water consumption is concerned: Changchun, San Luis Potosi, 
Crailsheim, and Dahenfeld. Their water consumption remains insignificant, only 
accounting for 0. 1% of our total consumption. Their production processes do not 
use water (no cooling water, no surface treatment, no water-based lubrication, etc.). 80
GRI 305 Emissions
305-1 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Curtailing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions 62-64
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Curtailing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions 62-64
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Curtailing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions 62-64
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded during the reporting year.
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and 
other significant air emissionsSustainability performance 81
GRI 306 Effluents and waste
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Sustainability performance 80
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability performance 81
306-3 Significant spills No significant spills recorded in the reporting year.
GRI 307 Environmental Compliance
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulationsWe have 11 ongoing cases of non-compliance, some require investment and time to 
be addressed. We are closely following those cases and working to resolve them.
GRI 308 Supplier environmental assessment
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaInsisting upon sustainable procurement 66-67
GRI 401 Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability performance 77
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 
are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employeesPart-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; temporary 
workers are not eligible for the same benefits. Some selected benefits related  
to health insurance are granted depending on seniority.
85 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Standard Description Section of this report/Additional information Pages
GRI 402 Labor Management relations
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 
changesThe minimum notice period changes depending on the country of operation and is 
based on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question.
GRI 403 Occupational health and safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management 
systemFocusing on environment, health and safety
a.  We encourage our sites to be certified by ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001.
b.  The policy and certification scope cover our employees and workers who are not 
employees but whose work and/or workplace is on Constellium premises.22-23
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment,  
and incident investigationFocusing on environment, health and safety 22-23
403-3 Occupational health services Focusing on environment, health and safety 22-23
403-4 Worker participation, consultation,  
and communication on occupational health  
and safety100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and safety committees.
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and 
safetyFocusing on environment, health and safety 22-23
403-6 Promotion of worker health Focusing on environment, health and safety 22-23
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationshipsFocusing on environment, health and safety 22-23
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management systemFocusing on environment, health and safety
85% of our sites are ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001 certified.22-23
403-9 Work-related injuries Focusing on environment, health and safety
Sustainability performance22-23
75
GRI 404 Training and education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Sustainability performance 77
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviewsMore than 65% of our employees receive regular performance reviews. The 
professional grade employees receive annual reviews of performance and career 
development through the global HR platform, SuccessFactors. Performance 
review for non-professional grade employees is managed on a site-by-site basis.
GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Sustainability performance 77-78
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration  
of women to menSustainability performance 78
GRI 406 Non-discrimination
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenIn 2020, our Integrity Hotline has recorded 1 claim alleging incidents of 
discrimination. The claims were investigated by the local case officers, and the 
results of the investigation were reviewed by our Compliances Committee. The case 
manager investigated this claim and was unable to find any evidence to support 
the alleged claims of discrimination and the case was subsequently closed. 
GRI 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining 
may be at riskOur Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining, and our operations are located in countries 
where such risks are not significant. In 2020, 84% of our total employees are 
covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Insisting upon sustainable procurement55
66-67
GRI 408 Child labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of child laborOur Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes this essential right and is 
implemented through our Code of Conduct.
Insisting upon sustainable procurement59
66-67
GRI 409 Forced or compulsory labor 
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory laborOur Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes  
this essential right and is implemented through our Code of Conduct. 
Insisting upon sustainable procurement59
66-67
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 86Standard Description Section of this report/Additional information Pages
GRI 412 Human rights assessment
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessmentsRespecting human rights
Since the end of 2018, we have conducted human rights risk assessment 
workshops at 12 of our sites: Nanjing, Singen, Neuf-Brisach, De ˇcˇín, Levice, 
Žilina, Muscle Shoals, Ravenswood, White, Van Buren, Bowling Green, and 
San Luis Potosí. 
In April  2019, we organized a global workshop with leadership from 
different key functions to discuss these risks. It produced a Constellium 
human rights heat map which was presented to the Executive Committee.59
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 
proceduresRespecting human rights
The principles of our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices have been
incorporated into our Code of Conduct. Employees are thus trained on
human rights during Code of Conduct training.59
17
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts 
that include human rights clauses or that 
underwent human rights screeningInsisting upon sustainable procurement
Human Rights Principles are explicitly mentioned in our Supplier Code of
Conduct, available at https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/
downloads/policies-codes-conduct66-67
58
GRI 413 Local communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programsSupporting our local communities 58
GRI 414 Supplier social assessment
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 
criteriaInsisting upon sustainable procurement 66-67
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 
actions takenActively supporting the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative
Insisting upon sustainable procurement68
66-67
GRI 415 Public policy
415-1 Political contributions None – it is our policy to not make any political contributions.
GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 
health and safety impacts of products and servicesNone recorded during the reporting year.
GRI 417 Marketing and labeling
417-1 Requirements for product and service 
information and labeling-Sourcing of raw material: 100% of our products comply with conflict 
minerals regulations and Constellium communicates the corresponding 
information on our website (https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/
downloads/disclosure-and-certifications).
-Products with substances that might produce an environmental or social
impact and safe use of the products and services: 100% of our semi-
products (cast, rolled, or extruded) are covered by corresponding 
Manufacturer Safety Data Sheets, available on our website (https:/ /www.
constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/material-safety-data-sheets). 
Constellium also complies with REACH regulations, which covers the 
majority of our products.
-Disposal of products and environmental and social impacts: we
communicate, advocate, and engage in promoting even higher recycling rates
for aluminium in all products.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 
and service information and labelingNone recorded during the reporting year.
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsNone recorded during the reporting year.
GRI 418 Customer privacy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 
of customer privacy and losses of customer dataNone recorded during the reporting year.
GRI 419 Socioeconomic compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations  
in the social and economic areaNone recorded during the reporting year.
87 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Forward-looking statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute 
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This report may contain “forward-looking 
statements” with respect to our business, results of operations and 
financial condition, and our expectations or beliefs concerning future 
events and conditions. You can identify forward-looking statements 
because they contain words such as, but not limited to, “believes, ”  
“expects,” “may,” “should,” “approximately,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” 
“intends, ” “plans, ” “targets, ” likely, ” “will, ” “would, ” “could” and similar 
expressions (or the negative of these terminologies or expressions).  
All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.  
Many risks and uncertainties are inherent in our industry and markets,  
while others are more specific to our business and operations.  
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: market 
competition; economic downturn; disruption to business operations, including the length and magnitude of disruption resulting from  
the global COVID-19 pandemic; the inability to meet customer demand  
and quality requirements; the loss of key customers, suppliers or other 
business relationships; the capacity and effectiveness of our hedging policy 
activities; the loss of key employees; levels of indebtedness which could 
limit our operating flexibility and opportunities; and other risk factors set 
forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 20-F , 
and as described from time to time in subsequent reports filed with the 
U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission.  
The occurrence of the events described and the achievement of the expected 
results depend on many events, some or all of which are not predictable  
or within our control. Consequently, actual results may differ materially 
from the forward-looking statements contained in this report. We undertake 
no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result 
of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.Associations Positions in governanceParticipation in  
projects and  
committees
Aluminum Association (AA) Member Board of Directors, Executive Committee Member Yes
Aluminium Can Recycling Romania (ALUCRO) Board Member Yes
Aluminium France Member of the Board Yes
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member of Standard Committee Yes
Alupro Member of the Board Yes
ARPAL, Spain Member of the Board No
Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) No Yes
Association of the United States Army (AUSA) No No
Can Manufacturers Institute No Yes
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No
Collège des Directeurs du Développement Durable (C3D) Member No
European Aluminium  Executive Committee Member, 
Member of the Packaging Group Board, 
Member of the Automotive & Transportation Group Board, 
Chairs of several committees  Yes
European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member Yes
Every Can Counts  Executive Committee Member Yes
Fédération des Forges et Fonderies Yes Yes
France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) President Yes
France Industrie Member No
Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of the Board Yes
Latas de Bebidas Yes Yes
Metal Packaging Europe (MPE) No Yes
Recal Foundation Poland Board member Yes
Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) Board member Yes
Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes,  
emballages et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM)No Yes
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No
Wirtschafts Grosshandel Metallehalbzeug (WGM) No Yes
Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of the Board Yes
Wirtschaftsvereinigung der Metalle Member of the Board NoMEMBERSHIPS
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 88For the year ended 31st December 2020
This is a free translation into English of the report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report 
should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France.
To the Constellium SE annual general meeting, 
In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Constellium SE (hereinafter the “entity), appointed as an independent third party and accredited by Cofrac 
(accreditation Cofrac Inspection n°3-1060 the scope of which is available at www.cofrac.fr), we hereby report to you on the consolidated statement 
of non-financial performance for the year ended 31st December 2020 (hereinafter the “Statement”), included in the management report pursuant 
to the legal and regulatory provisions of articles  L. 225102-1, R.  225-105 and R.  225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce).
The entity’s responsibility 
Pursuant to legal and regulatory requirements, the Board of Directors is responsible for preparing the Statement, including a presentation of the 
business model, a description of the principal nonfinancial risks, a presentation of the policies implemented considering those risks and the outcomes 
of said policies, including key performance indicators. 
The Statement has been prepared in accordance with the entity’ s procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines ”), the main elements of which are presented 
in the Statement and which are available on request at the entity’s head office.
Independence and quality control  
Our independence is defined by the provisions of article L.  822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics (Code de déon -
tologie) of our profession. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional guidance and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Responsibility of the Statutory Auditor, appointed as an independent third party
On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to provide a report expressing a limited assurance conclusion on:
• the compliance of the Statement with the provisions of article R.  225-105 of the French Commercial Code;
•  the fairness of the information provided in accordance with article  R. 225105 I, 3 and II of the French Commercial Code, i.e., the outcomes, including 
key performance indicators, and the measures implemented considering the principal risks (hereinafter the “Information”).
However, it is not our responsibility to comment on:
•  The entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions, in particular the French duty of care law and anti-corruption and tax 
evasion legislation;
• The compliance of products and services with the applicable regulations.CONSTELLIUM SE
Report by one of the Statutory Auditors,  appointed as an independent third party,  
on the consolidated statement of non-financial performance included in  
the management report. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex
Téléphone: +33 (0)1 56 57 58 59, Fax: +33 (0)1 56 57 58 60, www.pwc.fr
Société d’expertise comptable inscrite au tableau de l’ordre de Paris - Ile de France. Société de commissariat aux comptes membre de la compagnie régionale deVersailles. Société par Actions 
Simplifiée au capital de 2 510 460 €. Siège social : 63, rue de Villiers 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine. RCS Nanterre 672 006 483. TVA n° FR 76 672 006 483. Siret 672 006 483 00362. Code APE 6920 Z. 
Bureaux : Bordeaux, Grenoble, Lille, Lyon, Marseille, Metz, Nantes, Neuilly-Sur-Seine, Nice, Poitiers, Rennes, Rouen, Strasbourg, Toulouse.
89 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Nature and scope of our work 
The work described below was performed in accordance with the provisions of articles A.  225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code determining 
the conditions in which the independent third party performs its engagement and with the professional guidance of the French Institute of Statutory 
Auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements, as well as with ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical 
financial information.
Our procedures allowed us to assess the compliance of the Statement with regulatory provisions and the fairness of the Information:
•  we obtained an understanding of all the consolidated entities’ activities, the description of the social and environmental risks associated with their 
activities and, as well as the resulting policies and their outcomes; 
•  we assessed the suitability of the Guidelines with respect to their relevance, completeness, reliability , objectivity and understandability , with due 
consideration of industry best practices, where appropriate; 
•  we verified that the Statement includes each category of social and environmental information set out in article  L. 2251021 III;
•  we verified that the Statement includes an explanation for the absence of the information required under article L.  225-102-1 III, 2; 
•  we verified that the Statement presents the business model and the principal risks associated with all the consolidated entities’ activities, including 
where relevant and proportionate, the risks associated with their business relationships and products or services, as well as their policies, measures 
and the outcomes thereof, including key performance indicators;
•  we verified, where relevant with respect to the principal risks or the policies presented, that the Statement provides the information required under 
article R. 225-105 II;
•  we assessed the process used to identify and confirm the principal risks;
•  we asked what internal control and risk management procedures the entity has put in place;
•  we assessed the consistency of the outcomes and the key performance indicators used with respect to the principal risks and the policies presented;
•  we verified that the Statement covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., all the companies included in the scope of consolidation in accordance with 
article L.  233-16 within the limitations set out in the Statement;
•  we assessed the data collection process implemented by the entity to ensure the completeness and fairness of the Information;
•  for the key performance indicators and other quantitative outcomes that we considered to be the most important, we implemented:
-  analytical procedures to verify the proper consolidation of the data collected and the consistency of any changes in those data,
-  substantive tests, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the proper application of the definitions and procedures and reconcile the data with 
the supporting documents. This work was carried out on a selection of contributing entities: De ˇcˇín (Czech Republic), Issoire (France) and Muscle 
Shoals (United States) and covers between 18% and 100% of the consolidated data relating to the key performance indicators and outcomes 
selected for these tests;
•  we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (measures and outcomes) that we con -
sidered to be the most important (cf. appendix);
•  we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based on our knowledge of the all the consolidated entities.
We believe that the work carried out, based on our professional judgement, is sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a 
higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. 
Means and resources
Our work was carried out by a team of 6 people between September 2020 and March 2021 and took a total of 11 weeks.
We were assisted in our work by our specialists in sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. We conducted about 20 interviews 
with the people responsible for preparing the Statement, representing sustainability, human resources, health and safety, environmental and pur -
chasing departments.
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 90Conclusion
Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the consolidated statement of non-financial performance is 
not in accordance with the applicable regulatory provisions and that the Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with 
the Guidelines.
Comments
Without qualifying our conclusion and in accordance with article A.  225-3 of the French Commercial Code, we have the following comments: no key 
performance indicators are stated for the information on the gender diversity in the light of the related policies
Neuilly sur Seine / March 16, 2021
One of the Statutory Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit
French original signed    French original signed
Pierre Marty     Sylvain Lambert
Partner     Sustainable Development Partner
91 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020Key performance indicators and other quantitative results:
• Employee satisfaction rate;
• Percentage of sites which conducted at least one community program or event;
• Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women and men;
• Breakdown of permanent employees by region, by employee category, by gender, by employment type, and by contract;
• Permanent employee turnover by gender and by age;
• Percentage of employees (job grade equal and above 28) trained on Code of Conduct;
• Average number of training hours per employee;
• Percentage of total permanent employees covered by collective bargaining agreements;
• Percentage of workforce covered by an occupational health and safety management system - ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001;
• Recordable Case Rate and annual variation;
• Number of serious injuries;
• Financial and human resource dedicated to R&D;
• Aluminium beverage can industry recycling rate in Europe;
• Percentage of recycled input material used (aluminium);
• Variation (in percentage) of energy efficiency and energy consumptions;
• Greenhouse gas emissions (Scopes 1 & 2) and their intensity;
• Air emissions (VOC, NOx, SO2, particulate materials);
• Water discharge by quality (COD, BOD5, suspended solids, fluorides, hydrocarbon, and dissolved aluminium);
• Water withdrawal by source;
•  Quantity of hazardous and non-hazardous waste and their related disposal methods, and variation (in percentage) of the quantity of production 
waste sent to landfill;
• Percentage of spending on evaluated suppliers and percentage of key and at-risk suppliers who signed the Supplier Code of Conduct.
Qualitative information (actions and results):
• Mechanism (hotline) for advice and concerns about ethics, number of claims;
• Participations in different professional associations;
• Serious Injury and Fatality prevention (SIF) program;
• “Caring for Each Other” and “MOMENTUM” programs;
• COVID19 quarantine procedure;
• Global Talent Review initiative.APPENDIX :
List of the information we considered most important
CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020 92Reporting period
Financial year 2020
(January  1, 2020 to December  31, 2020)
Date of publication 
March 2021
 
Report scope 
Financials are consolidated for all entities owned 
by Constellium and all operating joint ventures 
controlled by Constellium during reporting year 2020. 
The scope of extra-financial data is the same unless 
otherwise specified.
Contact 
communications@constellium.com or
sustainability@constellium.comAssurance 
Constellium’s non-financial performance 
statement (“déclaration de performance extra-
financière”), included in this report (as specified 
on page 74), was verified by an independent 
third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit verified compliance 
of our statement with the provisions of the French 
Commercial Code (article R. 225-105), along with 
the fairness of the information provided in our 
statement, such as key performance indicators and 
measures taken to address risks (article R. 225-105 
I, 3, and II of the French Commercial Code). The work 
of PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit was performed in 
accordance with the provisions of articles A. 225-1 et 
seq. of the French Commercial Code, determining the 
conditions under which an independent third party 
performs its engagement, and with the professional 
guidance of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors 
(“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements, as well as 
with ISAE 3000 assurance engagements other than 
audits or reviews of historical financial information. 
The verification report of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Audit (included on page 89 of this report) describes in 
detail the verification work performed.
Coordination: Corporate Communications Department and Sustainability Council.
Design and production: Angie
Credits:  ©Adrien Daste, ©AIRBUS 2018/S. Ramadier, ©A2Mac1, ©Constellium, ©Getty Images/Henrik Weis, ©Getty Images/JoZtar,  
©Getty Images/Ariel Skelley, ©Hubert Raguet/Constellium, ©iStockphoto.com/InnaViasova, ©iStockphoto.com/BlackJack3D, 
©iStockphoto.com/TimAwe, ©iStockphoto.com/Paket, ©iStockphoto.com/koosen, ©iStockphoto.com/Thomas-Soellner, 
©iStockphoto.com/AntonMatveev, ©iStockphoto.com/LeManna, ©iStockphoto.com/3DSculptor, ©iStockphoto.com/golubovy,  
©iStockphoto.com/amygdala_imagery, ©iStockphoto.com/okeyphotos, ©iStockphoto.com/DonNichols, @Joël Damase/Constellium, 
©Patrick Allard, ©Polyshape, ©Unsplash.com/David DaraicheABOUT THIS REPORT
93 CONSTELLIUM BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2020www.constellium.com