Constellium  – Business  and sustainability  performance report 2014Business   
and sustainability   
performance  
repor t 2014 Infinite 
possibilitiesHeadquarters
Tupolevlaan 41-61
1119 NW, Schiphol-RijkThe Netherlands
Corporate offices
830 Third Avenue, 9th floor
New York, NY 10022United States
Washington Plaza
40–44 Rue Washington75008 ParisFrance
Max Hoegger-Strasse 6
8048 ZurichSwitzerland
www.constellium.com
Ideas. Materialized.Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 20142
 3
Heading 1
Inside this report:
Business in focus
We explain our organization and our strategy, as well as the progress that our business units have made during the year.Key figures 2
Infinite possibilities 3
Value we create 4
Highlights of the year 6
Company organization 8
Chief Executive Officer insights 10
Our strategy 12
Innovation 15
Market overview 16
Aerospace and Transportation 18
Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products 20
Automotive Structures and Industry 22
Board of Directors 24
Executive Committee 26
Governance 28
Engaging with stakeholders 30
Sustainability in focusWe outline why and how sustainability matters at Constellium, and showcase some of the key achievements of 2014.Sustainability highlights 32
Altogether more sustainable 34
Our materiality assessment 36
Stakeholder perspectives 39
Making our products more sustainable 42
Supporting our people 50
Making our operations more efficient 58
Doing business responsibly 64
Managing sustainability 68
Performance in detailThis section provides greater detail and data on both our business and sustainability performances.Consolidated income statement 70
Consolidated statement of financial position 71
Consolidated statement of cash flows 72
Share information 73
Sustainability data 74
Memberships 77
GRI G4 disclosure index 78
Forward-looking statements 81About this report
Reporting period Financial year 2014 (January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014)
Reporting cycle Annual
Date of publication June 2015
Report scope  T
he data or financials relate to Constellium worldwide falling within 
the scope of consolidation at December 31, 2014. Wise Metals data 
is not included since the acquisition of Wise Metals occurred on January 5, 2015. 
Report content The content of this report is based on our business data and the results of our dialog with stakeholders, the Global Reporting Initiative G4 requirements and other sustainability ratings and rankings.
Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidelines – Core 
Assurance The report is in compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines and maintains code of reporting as advised by GRI. It is not externally assured.
Contact For further information please contact:  
communications@constellium.com  or 
sustainability@constellium.com
Have a look at the new Constellium microsite dedicated  
to our business and sustainability report:
www.business-sustainability.constellium.comBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 20142
Business  and sustainability  
performance report 2014 3
Infinite possibilities
We are Constellium. 
We are a global leader in aluminium solutions 
whose business is to materialize today’s and tomorrow’s ideas. 
For us, aluminium is more than a metal. It is part of the solution for tomorrow’s 
lighter, faster economy. Abundant, endlessly recyclable and reusable, aluminium’s  
unique properties mean that, together  
with our partners, we can shape a future  
of infinite possibilities.Key figures
as of December 31, 2014
 #1
Worldwide for  
aerospace plates
 #1
In the USA  
for large coils #1
Worldwide for  
closure stock
 #1
In Europe for hard  
alloy extrusions  #2
Worldwide for Crash 
Management Systems 
  #1
In Europe for  
large profiles 
#2
In Europe for  
can body stockRevenue by business unit
Aerospace 
and Transportation32%Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products44%Automotive Structures and Industry24%Full-time employees by geographic region
Europe82.0%Asia3.4%NorthAmerica14.6%
For more information  
see page 8Full-time employees*
*Permanent and ﬁxed-term employees9,14 8Adjusted EBITDA
€275m 
2014 275
2013 280
2012 223Group sales
€3,666m 
2014 3,666
2013 3,495
2012 3,6105
We are the leading global supplier 
of aluminium aerospace plates and closure stock, the leading European supplier of large profiles and hard alloy extrusions as well as a leading global supplier of can body stock and automotive structures. Our unique platform has enabled us to develop stable, diversified and long-standing customer relationships – in fact we have worked with most of our largest customers for over 25 years. 
We operate through three 
business units:
• 
 A
erospace and Transportation
• 
 P
ackaging and Automotive 
Rolled Products
• 
 A
utomotive Structures 
and Industry
Key customers include:Aerospace:  
Airbus, Boeing, Bombardier, 
Dassault Aviation, Embraer, KAI, Lockheed Martin, Pilatus, SpaceX
Packaging:  
Amcor, Anheuser-Busch InBev, 
Ball, Can-Pack S.A., Coca-Cola, Crown, Rexam
Automotive:  
Audi, BMW Group, Ford, General 
Motors, Mercedes-Benz, Porsche, PSA Peugeot Citroën, Tesla, ValeoAluminium smeltingResource extraction
Semi-manufacturing
Produc t use
Each produc t has its own 
usable lifetimeProduct 
manufacturing
At ou r customers  
or at their 
customers Recyc ling
Products recycled 
back into the 
production processRollingW
here Constellium operatesExtru sion4
Value we create
Our vision, objective and values underpin a 
business model that continues to meet the demands of world-leading customers through three business units.
Our vision
To be the most profitable and 
the fastest growing company in our industry.
Our objective
To achieve leadership positions in our global target markets by continuously enhancing our portfolio of products and improving the levels of service, quality and added value we provide to our customers.
Our values
These are the core beliefs that guide our actions:
Teamwork and mutual trust
We develop and utilize relationships across Constellium to leverage mutually beneficial outcomes and opportunities.
Entrepreneurship and 
decisiveness
We lead, engage and inspire 
employees to pursue our vision, encouraging growth and improvements that support business objectives.Sense of urgency  
and decentralized  
decision-making
We relentlessly focus on actions that drive business forward, creating structures, processes and communications to enable swift decisions at the point of impact.
Responsibility and 
accountability
We engage personally in actions 
that continuously improve our performance, challenging the status quo and taking risks.
Rigor and discipline
We objectively assess the situation and act immediately on deviations, refusing to compromise on quality and integrity.
Transparency and highest 
standards of ethics
We act honestly, ethically and 
honorably. We show beliefs through behaviors and lead by example. We enrich our community and make responsible, sustainable decisions.Our business model
We are a global sector leader strongly committed to designing and manufacturing innovative aluminium products and solutions for a broad range of applications dedicated primarily to aerospace, automotive and packaging markets. Our business model is to add value by converting aluminium into semi-fabricated products, and we are the supplier of choice to numerous blue
-c
hip customers.
Our facilities are strategically located in the United States, Europe and China. These comprise 23 production sites, 10 administrative and commercial sites and a world-class technology center. We collaborate with around 40 external scientific partners aiming at sharing emerging knowledge, exploring innovative concepts and identifying new talents. Our International Scientific Council gathers several of the world’s top material scientists to further strengthen our technical leadership and innovation performance.Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 20146
 7
Join ed research 
consortium  
led b y MIT 
We joined the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology (MIT) Industrial Fracture Consortium, reinforcing our commitment to partnering with leading institutions to achieve breakthrough innovations. The consortium will use simulation software to predict how automotive structural components behave during accidents and help us improve safety. Invested in Decin 
including recycling technology
We finalized a €15 million 
investment in Decin, Czech Republic, to boost production of high-volume alloy products for the automotive industry by almost 10,000 tons per year. The investment includes a new extrusion line and a casthouse to process and recycle both machining scrap from our customers and demolition.Won contract to 
supply structural parts for the new lightweight Ford F-150 pickup truckWe provide Ford Motor Co. 
with aluminium structural parts for the all-new Ford F-150 pickup truck. The truck delivers the industry’s best towing and payload capability among full-size, lightduty pickups, enabled by reducing its weight through the use of high-strength aluminium alloy in the body.
Invested in 
North America to produce Body
-i
n-
White (BiW) productsWe signed a joint-venture 
with UACJ to produce BiW aluminium sheets in Bowling Green, Kentucky. We have started building the new facility that will be hosting a first BiW finishing line.
Highlights of the year
From major investments and a landmark acquisition 
to the supply of aluminium products for the new F-150 pickup truck that is changing the face of our industry, 2014 saw many examples of achievement and progress at Constellium.
Endorsed new 
global aluminium sustainability standard 
Constellium is a member of 
the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative, a unique value chain program that has delivered the first voluntary standard for 
responsible aluminium. 
This 
new voluntary standard is the culmination of a year-long consultative dialog involving industry leaders and civil society organizations.Joined forces 
with global can manufacturer Rexam to convert production lines 
We expect can makers across 
Europe to continue converting their production lines from steel to aluminium due to its many advantages for packaging applications. 
Increased 
AIRWARE® 
production capabilities 
We invested in a new casthouse 
in Issoire, France, enabling us to meet increasing demand for our AIRWARE
® 
technology – which allows aircraft manufacturers to reduce the weight of aerospace components. AIRWARE
® is  
onboard to be part of major new aerospace programs.
Increased 
passenger safety with new lightweight and high-strength material
We launched new Crash 
Management Systems (CMS) technology for the front and the rear of vehicles to improve protection in the event of a collision. Now we can produce aluminium CMS 15% lighter or 10% stronger than the current options.Announced 
acquisition of  
Wise Metals
We announced the acquisition 
of Alabama-based Wise Metals in a capacity-expanding move. We plan to invest up to $750 million by 2022 in the Muscle Shoals plant which is currently focused on the can market, to increase capacity and start producing automotive body sheets for the car industry. See case study on page 21 for more information.
Significantly 
expanded  
Body-in-White (BiW) production in Europe
We announced a planned 
€200 million investment over the next three years to grow our European BiW business – which produces automotive body sheets.
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 20148
 9
Plant
Ofﬁce
R&D centre
Joint ven ture
Plant
Ofﬁce
R&D centre
Joint ventureNorth America
Van Buren, MI
•  P roduces customized 
automotive structures and 
Crash Management Systems (CMS)
• 
 F
eatures advanced 
prototyping and development capabilities
Bowling Green, KY
•  J oint-venture with UACJ 
(Japan), majority owned by Constellium
• 
 O
ne Body-in-White 
finishing line
• 
 D
esigned to allow for 
expansion beyond 100,000 tons
Ravenswood, WV
•  W orldwide unique assets for  
aerospace plates
• 
 R
ecognized supplier to the 
highly demanding defense industry
• 
 W
ide-coil capabilities and 
largest stretcher worldwide enabling unique product creation
Muscle Shoals, AL
•  W idest strip mill in the US
• 
 W
orld-class recycling centerEurope
Singen, Germany
•  I ntegrated hot/cold-rolling 
line
• 
 R
ecognized for closure stock 
and functional surfaces
• 
 O
ne of the largest extrusion 
presses in the world
• 
 A
dvanced and highly 
productive integrated CMS 
manufacturing lines
Issoire, France
•  O ne of the world’s two leading 
aerospace plate mills, with wingskin capabilities
• 
 N
ew AIRWARE® casthouse for 
low-density alloys
• 
 R
ecycling facility
Voreppe, France
•  C -TEC, our world-class 
technology centerNeuf-Brisach, 
France
•  S econd largest volume, 
fully integrated, rolling mill 
in Europe
• 
 D
edicated primarily to can 
stock and Body-in-White
• World-class recycling center
Valais, Switzerland
•  P recision plate shop for 
general engineering products
• 
 L
eading large profile 
supplier for high-speed train manufacturers
• 
 C
asthouses in Steg and 
Chippis
• 
 S
ierre plate shop and Steg 
casthouse qualified for aerospace
Decin, Czech 
Republic
•  Eu rope’s largest hard alloys  
extrusion plantAsia
Changchun, China
•  J oint-venture with 
Engley, majority owned by 
Constellium
• 
 P
rovides global customers 
with CMS and other structural modulesPlant
OfficeTechnology centerJoint-venturep
¦
utCompany organization
Constellium is a global sector leader strongly committed 
to designing and manufacturing innovative and high value
-a
dded aluminium products and solutions for a broad 
range of applications. Our primary markets are aerospace, automotive and packaging – and we meet the needs of customers in these markets through three business units.
Aerospace and 
Transportation
Provides technologically 
advanced aluminium alloys with wide applications across the global aerospace, defense, transportation and industrial sectors. The business unit offers a wide range of products including plates, sheets and extrusions which allow Constellium to provide tailored solutions to our customers.Automotive Structures  
and Industry
Produces advanced solutions for the global automotive industry, including Crash Management Systems (CMS) and other structural and safety parts and extrusions. This business unit also manufactures large profiles mainly for road and rail transportation, energy and other industrial applications. Packaging and 
Automotive Rolled Products
Develops, provides and recycles 
aluminium sheets and coils for packaging applications (beverage and food cans, closures, foils) as well as automotive solutions, including high-performance products for Body-in-White (BiW) and heat exchangers.
For more information  
see page 18For more information  
see page 20For more information  
see page 22
Revenues  €m
2014 1,197
2013 1,204
2012 1,188
Adjusted EB ITDA  €m
2014 91
2013 120
2012 106Revenues  €m
2014 1,576
2013 1,480
2012 1,561
Adjusted EB ITDA  €m
2014 118
2013 105
2012 92Revenues  €m
2014 921
2013 859
2012 910
Adjusted EB ITDA €m
2014 73
2013 58
2012 46Main plantsOur global footprint2014 was a pivotal year for Constellium in many respects. 
Pierre Vareille, Chief Executive Officer, highlights the main achievements of the last 1 2 months, before outlining his expectations for the period ahead.
number 1 or number 2 globally in all our markets. This will ensure the long-term future of our Company. We also aim to be recognized as the most innovative and reliable partner in the industry and the natural home for its best talents.
Finally, following the acquisition of 
Wise Metals, Constellium is now a major player in the US packaging market. We plan to invest up to $750 million in our Muscle Shoals plant to start producing auto body sheets and take advantage of the very promising appetite of the automotive industry for aluminium solutions.
Looking at the aluminium 
industry, what are the key challenges and opportunities that lie ahead?
In the automotive sector, 
the challenge will be to meet increasing demand for high-quality and innovative aluminium body sheet and structural parts, as this industry moves away from steel and towards aluminium. This is why we are so active with R&D and investments to build new capacity.
With regard to packaging, 
I strongly believe steel will finally disappear as a material for cans, with aluminium taking 100% of the market over the next few years. The market will continue to grow in Europe, albeit at a low rate. In order to maintain and increase our market share, we have to learn to be more flexible and more at the service of our customers.
In the aerospace industry, no new 
aircraft are scheduled to be in design then production before 2030, which means that market shares for Constellium and our peers will remain relatively stable for the foreseeable future. We have to take advantage of this opportunity to dramatically improve our operations, control our costs and prove that Constellium can get back to the pole position we held in the past in this high-tech industry.
What were the key sustainability 
achievements of 2014 – and the disappointments?
The major downside concerned 
our safety record, which has now stagnated for two years. Our response has been to launch a vigorous plan to make sure that we once again make progress in this vital area. The latest employee survey also showed that we still have much work to do to deliver satisfaction to all our employees, despite the marked progress achieved since 2012. Our record on production waste is another area where significant improvements are required if we want to reach our targets.
On a positive note, in addition 
to the increase in employee suggestions, we have improved our energy efficiency and already hit our 2015 target. In addition, we have accelerated the speed of innovation, where we are ahead of target, and taken important strides forward with our Life Cycle Assessment program. 
It was also rewarding to see 
the launch of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative’s new global sustainability standard for the aluminium industry in December 2014. Constellium has been one of the prime movers of an initiative that seeks to mobilize a broad base of stakeholders to establish and promote responsible practices across the aluminium value chain, including business ethics and environmental performance.
What are your hopes and 
ambitions for the next 12 months and beyond?
I expect to see the projects 
initiated during 2014 come to fruition in 2015. They include the successful integration of the newly acquired Muscle Shoals plant, the turnaround of Aerospace and Transportation, good progress with the investments announced over the last 12 months, a successful launch of Lean phase 2  
and a return to an improving safety performance following the stagnation of the past two years.
At a personal level, I again look 
forward to leading a team of committed, talented individuals. Our people are aligned along the same vision, with the same shared values and commitment to delivering our strategy. It was a privilege to work alongside them during 2014 and I thank them unreservedly for their skills, support and tireless enthusiasm.
11
Chief Executive 
Officer insights
What have been your personal 
highlights as Chief Executive Officer over the last year? 
One of the events that will have a 
great influence on the long-term future of Constellium was the acquisition of Wise Metals, which is a real game-changer for us. Not only has it made us a more international company and the third largest hot rolling company in the world, it has also given us the capability and presence to participate in the fast-growing Body-in-White (BiW) market in the US. This is part of a program that sees us investing massively in new and improved production facilities on a global scale, to help us achieve our long-term growth ambitions.
From a business, innovation and 
operational standpoint, our overall great performance in 2014 has been achieved first and foremost by the dedication of our talented teams around the globe. We all share the same ambition for our company, an ambition supported by an aggressive strategy both in terms of growth and of improving our operations and service to our customers.
But there have also been 
some low points, notably our safety performance. Sadly, we experienced a fatality at Chippis in Switzerland in December. My thoughts, and those of everybody at Constellium, are very much focused on this tragic loss. This puts everything in perspective: we can succeed in all we do, but nothing really counts compared to such an event. Our first and utmost responsibility is to make sure that all our colleagues get back home safely, every day. 
How would you describe 
Constellium’s financial performance over the last year?
It has been a solid performance, 
which could have been stronger still. But we were impacted by higher metal premiums and by the disappointing performance of one of our business units, Aerospace and Transportation.
The dynamic global automotive 
industry, and the increasing importance of aluminium to both structures and BiW were again the chief drivers for our growth. Against this background, the Automotive Structures and Industry business unit performed well and we have expanded our plants at Decin in the Czech Republic, Gottmadingen in Germany and Van Buren in the US, and built a new plant in China to meet the rapidly-increasing demand. 
Packaging and Automotive Rolled 
Products also recorded a good performance, with the plant at Neuf-Brisach in France breaking several records for volume, quality and service to our customers. The plant at Singen in Germany experienced a less satisfactory year due to subdued demand. 
Aerospace and Transportation 
returned figures well below expectations. The issues at Aerospace and Transportation, which were associated with operational challenges and capacity constraints, are not yet fully resolved. However, we have taken the necessary actions and are confident that improvement will begin to be demonstrated. 
What progress has been 
made with the Lean Transformation program?
Over the last two years, Lean has 
been the platform for a significant improvement in the service we provide to customers, in terms of quality as well as delivery performance, and this helped us continue to take market share from our competitors. Among the many success stories around Lean, I am especially proud to note that over half of our employees now contribute at least one helpful suggestion every month.
Although there is still room for 
considerable improvement, we have already accomplished a lot. We are now continuing our Lean journey with a five-year phase two, which will see us empower even more of our people at plants and extend Lean into our office and support functions.
2014 has been a big year for 
investments. How will this impact 2015 and the following years?
Firstly, it is important to 
understand that the only reason that we have been able to make these investments is because Constellium’s success has generated a high level of Free Cash Flow during the two last years. In other words, we are investing because we have the means and because of all the work we have accomplished together in previous years. 
These investments form the 
foundations for our future success. In a few years, I believe Constellium will be ranked either 
10Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014
Our commitment to the
United Nations Global Compact“We have reaffirmed our supportof the Ten Principles of the UnitedNations Global Compact (UNGC)  
in the areas of human rights, labor, 
environment and anti-corruption.  
These principles lie at the heart of  
our commitment to sustainability.  
In this report we communicate on  
our progress and have referenced  
the UNGC Communication on Progress logo where applicable.”Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201412
 13
us with immediate access 
to 450,000 metric tons of hot 
mill capacity. 
Our packaging strategy is also 
supported by Wise Metals which 
has a steady revenue stream 
driven by long-term contracts 
with most American beverage can 
customers. We now hold leading 
positions in the can body stock 
markets in both North America 
(#3) and Europe (#2), where we 
announced a partnership with 
Rexam to switch two of their steel 
can lines to aluminium in Spain. 
Although growing at a relatively 
modest rate, packaging remains 
the cornerstone of Constellium; it 
is a stable, high-volume business 
where our technical strengths can 
play to good effect. 
In aerospace, our progress against 
the strategy was disappointing, 
due to capacity constraints and 
operational issues. However, this 
market remains very attractive 
to us and we are addressing the 
challenges experienced in 2014. 
We are confident that we have the 
right leadership team, products 
and services, and anticipate a 
marked improvement in 2015 
and beyond. 
Building global 
capabilities to drive 
growth
The explosive growth of BiW is 
currently the single most powerful 
trend in the automotive sector. 
Our acquisition of Wise Metals 
has transformed Constellium 
from a relatively Europe-centric 
organization to a truly global player 
able to serve global customers 
better and faster. The BiW market 
in the US is expected to grow from 
100,000 metric tons in 2012 to 
over one million tons in 2020 and 
around two million tons in 2025.The Wise Metals acquisition 
will help us meet that demand. 
We plan to invest up to $750 million 
by 2022 to increase Muscle Shoals’ 
current hot mill capacity to over 
700,000 metric tons and build 
200,000 metric tons of dedicated 
BiW finishing capacity to help us 
continue to grow in this value-
added market. 
Our vision is to become a leading 
global player in all three of our main 
markets. Our success in seizing 
opportunities across the globe 
depends primarily on our ability 
to deliver innovations, which is 
central to our strategy. Relative to our sales, we already invest more 
in R&D than our competitors and 
this has created a track record of 
proven innovations. These include a new AIRWARE
® casting system that 
enables us to produce aluminium-
lithium billets using advanced 
alloys, new Crash Management 
Systems (CMS) and GRIPSTERTM, 
which brings reduced noise 
qualities to refrigerated vehicles 
(see page 44). Our reputation for 
innovation is further endorsed by 
the high-value output delivered 
by our International Scientific 
Council as well as by close working 
relationships with external 
organizations, such as the new 
partnership with Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology (MIT) that 
we established during 2014.
Accelerating 
performance
Our Lean Transformation program 
is already changing the way we 
work. Lean is based on relying on 
all our employees to contribute to 
the progress of our Company and 
providing specific, very efficient 
tools to produce a major impact on 
our people, our customers and our operations. In 2012, we identified 
six Lean KPIs, and targeted 
progress of at least 2% per month 
on each KPI. 1. Safety
This is our utmost priority and 
we are disappointed that we 
have failed to live up to our high 
expectations. We have reduced 
the number of accidents by 80% 
since 2004 and in 2014 these stood at only one-third of those 
of the European Aluminium 
benchmark. However, it is with 
great regret that we have to again 
report that while the recordable 
injury rate remained broadly 
stable, we experienced one 
fatality during the year. Please see 
page 51 for details of how we 
intend to improve our safety 
performance in 2015.
2. Empowering our people
We aim to involve our employees 
in the transformation of our 
Company by asking them to make 
suggestions that will improve 
performance. Our ambition was 
for 50% of employees to make at 
least one suggestion per month. 
In reality, the figure at the end 
of 2014 was 58%, so we have outperformed our Lean target.
3. Quality
Two years ago we were receiving 
too many quality-based customer 
complaints each month. Today, 
thanks to engaging our people through initiatives such as 
designating 2014 as the ‘Year 
of Quality’ and due to our 
relentless deployment of very precise tools and methodologies, 
we have decreased the number 
of complaints by around 70%, exceeding the Lean target of a 
50% improvement.
4. On-time, in-full delivery
We have successfully met our 
target and reduced the number of 
late deliveries by half from 2012 
to 2014. 
Our strategy
Our strategy is consistent and proven. It aims to establish 
Constellium as the most profitable and fastest growing aluminium company in the world. 
Our strategy
Our ambition is to become the 
most profitable and the fastest 
growing company in our industry. 
We aim to achieve leadership 
positions in our global target 
markets of aerospace, automotive 
and packaging by continuously 
enhancing our portfolio of 
products and improving the 
quality of the service we provide to 
our customers.
Our strategy is based on three 
strategic pillars:
1.  F ocus on profitable 
markets and segments
  S trengthen our leading position in 
the aerospace market
 
 E
xpand our market share in the 
automotive segment
 I
ncrease margins and volumes in 
the can stock market
2.  B uild global capabilities  
to drive growth
  C ontinue to lead our industry 
in innovation
 
 E
xpand our Body-in-White (BiW) 
and automotive structures activities in the US
 
 C
ontinue to evaluate selective 
potential investments in Asia
 
 D
evelop our technological  
expertise
 
 B
ecome an industry leader in the 
area of sustainability3. Accelerate performance
  B e best-in-class in safety
 
 C
ontrol costs
 
 M
onitor trade working capital
 
 C
ontinue to improve operational 
performance through our Lean 
Transformation program and 
improve service through the 
extension of the program to 
additional functions
Focusing on profitable 
markets and segments
During 2014, we made overall 
progress in our main markets. 
In the US automotive market, 
a number of expansion projects 
and the strategic acquisition 
of Wise Metals are giving us 
the capacity we need to grow 
in this booming segment. 
We have invested $40 million to double capacity at Van Buren 
in Michigan, which will enable 
us to take advantage of North 
American demand for automotive 
structural parts. Early in 2015, 
we announced a major contract with Ford for the new Ford F-150, which incorporates extensive use 
of aluminium. This is the first time 
that aluminium will feature heavily 
in a mass market vehicle and we 
believe it will be a game changer 
for the automotive industry. In addition, we made significant 
investments at our plants in China, 
Germany, Czech Republic and 
France to boost production for the 
automotive industry in Europe. 
Our strategy in automotive is 
further enabled by the acquisition 
of Wise Metals (see ‘Building 
global capabilities to drive growth’ opposite) which has the 
widest hot strip mill in North 
America. Wise Metals provides Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201414
 15
Innovation
C-TEC provides us with a ‘lab to 
industrial-scale’ capability which 
enables us to de-risk innovations 
for our customers. During 2014, 
we accelerated and finalized a 
major change in the way C-TEC 
works. The facility now operates 
through a project management 
approach with a sharp focus on 
execution. This project-driven 
focus empowers people to take 
responsibility and helps us work 
faster and smarter, bringing 
ideas to fruition more quickly 
and enabling customers to seize 
competitive advantage.
Eyes on the future
A key role for C-TEC is to use 
‘watch’ processes to continuously 
monitor and evaluate technology 
trends that may open up new 
opportunities for our business 
units. Our International Scientific 
Council brings together several of 
the world’s top material scientists 
and nurtures our innovation 
strategy with new perspectives. 
The center integrates this latest 
thinking, together with other 
inputs from its ‘watch’ processes, 
into its strategy and works closely 
with the business units to create 
a product/process roadmap and 
portfolio. Developments that we 
are exploring include 3D printing, 
which is advancing at phenomenal 
speed leading to new potential 
opportunities. Nanotechnology is enabling sensors to be integrated 
into inanimate objects – the 
basis for the ‘internet of things’ that could create possibilities 
for products and applications 
in our markets. Web-integrated 
production could revolutionize manufacturing processes. 
In automotive, many Original 
Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) 
are developing driverless car 
technology. What new demands 
would this create on the shape of 
vehicles, and hence for aluminium 
body parts?
Reducing time to  
market
C-TEC launched the first platform 
dedicated to automotive 
Body-in-White (BiW) projects 
for faster R&D. This generated 
immediate benefits including 
better communication within 
the teams, more efficient 
project management and faster 
decision-making. The Auto hub, 
inspired by the Toyota ‘Oobeya’ 
(Japanese for ‘big project room’) 
concept, is a large space where 
the Project Manager, lab team 
members and R&D scientists 
with various competencies 
(metallurgy, forming, modeling) 
work together. This is an important 
step in the deployment of Lean 
tools at C-TEC, and seven 
further project platforms are 
planned to be in operation by 
the end of 2015. C-TEC is also 
working on creating “competency 
platforms” aimed at maintaining 
a good balance between project 
efficiency and building skills. “The Auto hub, enabled by 
Lean tools, is another concrete 
step in our commitment to 
dramatically reduce the time to 
market for our innovations.”
Simon Laddychuk
Vice President and Chief Technical Officer
 
Working with the best
Through C-TEC, we collaborate 
with the brightest minds in the 
academic world. 
USA: Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology (MIT), Northwestern 
University, University of 
South Carolina, Worcester 
Polytechnic Institute 
UK: Brunel University, University of Manchester, University of Oxford
France: CNRS/University 
laboratories, IRT M2P, 
IRT Jules Verne
Germany: RWTH Aachen, German Aerospace Center DLR 
Switzerland: EPFL Lausanne
Netherlands: TU DelftInnovation is the oxygen that feeds Constellium’s strategy. At C-TEC, our world-class technology center, over 250 specialists from 22 nationalities are responsible for creating the innovations that bring new standards of performance to customers in the aerospace, automotive and packaging sectors. World leaders in R&D for aluminium and related solutions, we invested €42 million in innovation during 2014 and helped bring several new products to market (see Products on page 44 for details).
Our strategy
continued
5. Inventory
We have reduced inventory by 17% 
since 2012, with minor progress 
in 2014, so this initiative has not 
yet had the anticipated impact on 
our flexibility and our service to 
our customers. Transforming the 
supply chain is a mid-term 
process and 2015 has been 
designated the ‘Year of Just in 
Time’, in order to drive inventory 
reduction and accelerate flows.
6. Equipment downtime
Due to organizational or 
technical issues, some key 
equipment was not operational 
for up to 30% of the time in 
2012. We have now reduced this 
figure to 15%, meeting our Lean 
target and freeing up capacity to increase production without 
capital expenditure.
The Lean journey 
continues
The first phase of Lean has been 
a resounding success, driving a marked improvement in our 
operations and the service 
provided to customers. We have made a tremendous difference in 
the space of 24 months. But this 
is just the beginning – in January 
2015, we announced Lean phase 2, 
which has three new dimensions:Longer 
Phase 2 is a five-year program 
which will anchor a culture of 
continuous improvement in the 
Company, ensuring that this is a 
permanent change for the better. 
We have set the target of 2% 
month-on-month improvement, 
which equates to a year-on-year 
reduction of 20%. Our objective is 
to reach a 70% improvement over the five years of the program.
Deeper
Instead of being implemented 
at a plant level, phase 2 is 
now being implemented at 
Autonomous Production Unit 
(APU) level. Each APU Manager 
will be coached and challenged 
on KPIs in order to drive continuous improvement deeper 
into Constellium. Wider
The original six production-based 
KPIs will continue. But phase 2 
will also embrace the Lean office, 
covering non-manufacturing 
functions such as sales, 
purchasing, finance, IT, R&D and 
HR. We have identified KPIs for 
each function and these will be 
measured company-wide and by 
each site. 
“The Lean transformation 
program is only starting and the 
second phase in the next five 
years will make Constellium the 
benchmark in our industry.”
Pierre Vareille
Chief Executive OfficerBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 17
What is likely to happen in 
the longer term?
As aluminium companies become 
a driving force in the automotive industry, steel producers will take a back seat. Although new high-strength steel alloys will continue to play a part in vehicle chassis construction, their use will be limited. Along with its light-weighting properties, aluminium provides better corrosion resistance and greater energy absorption in a crash. What is more, it is not clear how cars made of lighter, high-strength steel could be cut into by rescue services in the event of an accident. What should the 
aluminium industry be doing for automakers? 
Anything that makes it easier and 
more efficient for them to use aluminium in their manufacturing. That could mean coatings or better gauge control, and anything in alloy development. Metallurgists should be tweaking existing alloys and determining whether something new is needed. It is no longer a case of ‘whatever we sell them must be cheap’. Now it is ‘how can we improve the product to make it more efficient and create value for everyone involved?’ That should be the focus. It is a massive opportunity, and it is essential that aluminium producers execute flawlessly, develop as good a product as possible and continue to add capacity. It is a tall order, but the future is bright.Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 16
Market overview
Lloyd O’Carroll is an experienced metals equity analyst 
and the author of ‘The O’Carroll Aluminum Bulletin’, one of the industry’s most respected research services. Here, he outlines the latest developments in the automotive sector and the opportunities that face the aluminium industry.
What are the major trends 
in the wider aluminium industry?
Aluminium has been the fastest 
growing metal for the last 20 years and consumption is continuing to grow at around 7% per year, compared with 2% for steel. There is more to come, especially in light-weight, high-volume vehicles following the landmark decision by Ford to incorporate so many aluminium parts in the F-150.
The US is the biggest aluminium 
market and is experiencing the strongest growth, propelled by the transportation sector. Auto production volumes are high and we are seeing many new applications for Body-in-White (BiW) as well as structures such as bumpers, engine cradles and drive shafts. There is also good growth for aluminium in heavy and medium sized trucks and trailers. 
Europe is up slightly, and some 
experts are now upgrading their forecasts. The weaker euro will help export markets, while the stronger dollar will take some growth away from the US. 
In the emerging markets, we are 
seeing strong growth in the Pacific Rim, Southeast Asia and in India, while Brazil has stuttered a little. Although China is not achieving the 15–18% growth of recent years, it is still seeing high single digit growth. This is being driven by factors including the increase in major infrastructure projects, especially the power grid – high and medium voltage power lines are aluminium, not copper.
How significant is Ford’s 
switch to aluminium for the new F-150?
This is little short of a game 
changer. By transforming its best-selling vehicle in the US, Ford sent a clear message to the rest of the automotive industry: the future is aluminium. Historically, aluminium was used in transmission casings, engine blocks and heat exchangers but as far as bodywork is concerned, it was limited to premium cars. Ford’s decision signals a new era. 
The switch by Ford makes perfect 
sense. It is moving from mild steel to a blend of aluminium and high-strength steel as a way of reducing mass and increasing fuel efficiency. This is a very important trend for aluminium as it will add an additional 1–1.5% to total global growth for this metal.What role is regulation 
playing?
Regulation is the major factor 
here, driven by concerns over climate change – and those concerns are likely to become even more pronounced in the years to come, as regulation increases across all major markets. In the US, the requirements of the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards are set to double by 2025, from 27 miles per gallon (7km per liter) across an automaker’s fleet to 55 miles per gallon (14km per liter). In Europe, regulations are even more aggressive and the forecasts are that Japan will shortly adopt the more stringent European model, with China and India probably doing the same at some point.
The auto manufacturers are 
doing what they can to increase fuel economy, but there is only so much that can be achieved by adapting drive frames and engine transmissions. The rest will be delivered by lowering vehicle weight, and that is where aluminium comes into its own. Switching from steel to aluminium is not only cheaper. Lighter weight also means more economical engines with lower CO
2 emissions. 
Electric vehicles may play a part too, but range and price remain serious shortcomings.Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201418
 19
Moreover, the highlight of the year 
was the decision to build a new casthouse at Issoire in France, to meet accelerating demand for AIRWARE
® technology (see the 
case study to the left).
Plans for 2015 and 
beyond
Looking at the year ahead, the 
focus will remain on returning the business to its growth trajectory. Much of the work essential to achieving this began towards the end of the last financial year, and we will be redoubling our efforts throughout 2015. Specifically, we will:
•
  
 i
mplement the operational 
transformational program to 
improve reliability and deliver on our commitment to customers;
•
  
 i
ncrease capacity and grow 
our business to support our customers’ own growth ambitions, not only by supporting programs in ramp-up phase but also by anticipating future increases in production – for example, the single-aisle aircraft projects at Airbus and Boeing;
•
  
 s
trengthen collaboration across 
our production network which serves the aerospace market – Issoire, Ravenswood and Valais;
•
  
 d
evelop and ramp up production 
at the new casthouse at Issoire to increase AIRWARE
® capacity; 
•  
 c
ontinue to develop new, 
innovative solutions for our customers in aerospace as well as in other markets such as defense;
•
  
 r
educe costs and  
improve efficiency; and
•  
 m
aintain our focus on safety at 
all our sites, at all times.Meeting demand 
for AIRWARE® 
technology
Our AIRWARE® technology is 
driving significant improvements 
in performance for aerospace customers including Airbus, Bombardier, Lockheed Martin and SpaceX. With demand continuing to increase, early in the last financial year we announced plans to expand our AIRWARE
® manufacturing 
capacity at Issoire, in France.
We are building a new AIRWARE® 
casthouse that is expected to 
ramp up production during 2015. As the brand for our patented range of aluminum-lithium alloys, AIRWARE
® is changing the 
face of the aerospace industry based on its unique combination of strength, lightness and improved corrosion resistance. Taking advantage of lower alloy density and improved material properties, AIRWARE
® enables 
structural parts to be redesigned and allows manufacturers to reduce significantly the weight of aerospace components, thus improving fuel consumption of commercial aircraft. AIRWARE
® 
also eases the production of complex parts, guarantees higher durability and contributes to the development of a more sustainable aerospace industry due to its infinite recyclability.
These qualities explain why it has 
been selected for several major aerospace programs, including Airbus’ A350 XWB, Bombardier’s CSeries, NASA’s Orion spacecraft built by Lockheed Martin and the Falcon 9 Launcher from SpaceX. The new casthouse will enable us to meet increased demand for AIRWARE
® and clearly illustrates 
our long-term commitment to strengthen our leading position in the aerospace market.
Aerospace and Transportation
 “2014 was a challenging year for Aerospace and Transportation, with management changes and operational issues hampering progress. However, the business is essentially strong and the turnaround is already well underway. The efforts of my team are demonstrating that we can deliver on our potential in the coming years.”
Laurent Musy, President of Aerospace and Transportation
How we meet  
customer needs
Constellium is the world leader in value-added aerospace plates, a market that is continuously expanding thanks to healthy growth in aircraft production, driven by the steady increase in global air travel. Customers all over the world rely on our wide range of innovative aluminium rolled and extruded products which contribute to decreased aircraft weight and deliver fuel efficiency gains. These products include rectangular and machined plates, as well as extrusions for aircraft wings (including skins, ribs and stringers), as well as frames and fuselage sheets. We are also proud to serve the space industry, a segment characterized by the highest requirements in terms of technology and performance.
In addition, we provide advanced 
aluminium solutions that enable manufacturers in transportation, industry and defense to address their technology challenges. We have strong market positions in rolled aluminium for truck floors, tank trailers and dump bodies, railcars and roof coils in North America and Europe. We also provide specialized plate for armored vehicles.
In all of our markets we offer 
customized services designed to improve the effectiveness of operations and reduce costs, including pre-machining, advanced welding and recycling.
Innovation is a key competitive 
advantage for our customers in Aerospace and Transportation. Our manufacturing skills and capabilities in Europe and North America are supported by C-TEC, our world-class technology center in Voreppe, France. The center develops new technology and aluminium-based solutions addressing current and future market needs, such as our internationally-respected AIRWARE
® portfolio of products.
Highlights of 2014
2014 was characterized by a disappointing performance from our Aerospace and Transportation business unit, primarily due to operational challenges and capacity constraints. As the year progressed, the improvements we put in place to effect a business turnaround began to have an impact. Primary focus at Aerospace and Transportation is to improve operational performance and to secure and strengthen the business’ position in its key segments. The early signs of progress include an uplift in delivery performance tocustomers and reduced customer complaints, both of which were achieved before the end of the financial year. We were also pleased to report excellent progress on safety performance within the business unit during 2014.
We continued to serve our 
major customers during 2014, primarily through long-term contracts secured in previous years. These customers include the world’s major aircraft manufacturers such as Airbus, Boeing, Bombardier and Dassault and their suppliers. We supply a wide range of alloys for Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs)leading commercial and military programs via multi-year contracts. 
Furthermore, the range of plant 
investments planned for 2014 were also implemented as expected, including recalibrating burners at several sites and the extension of aerospace capacity at our plants in Valais, Switzerland.
Constellium’s products are onboard major aerospace programs 
Complex shapes through age formingBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201420
 21
Benefiting from 
the Wise Metals acquisition
The growing importance of 
aluminium to the automotive industry is nowhere better demonstrated than by Ford’s decision to incorporate many aluminium parts in the 2015 F-150, the most popular vehicle in North America for the last 20 years. BiW will play a major role in this industry transformation – we estimate that the North American market for BiW aluminium rolled products could grow from less than 100,000 metric tons in 2012 to approximately two million tons by 2025. 
On January 5, 2015 we completed 
the acquisition of Wise Metals, a private aluminium sheet producer located in Muscle Shoals, Alabama, for $1.4 billion. The acquisition of Wise – which has the widest hot strip mill in North America – provides us with immediate access to 450,000 metric tons of hot mill capacity. In parallel, we intend to invest up to $750 million by 2022 to increase current hot mill capacity to over 700,000 metric tons and build 200,000 metric tons of dedicated BiW finishing capacity to serve the rapidly growing US automotive market. As part of the $750 million strategic investment plan, we have recently decided to build a $160 million finishing line in North America with a capacity of 100,000 metric tons. This second line is due to start in early 2018.
A key milestone for Constellium, 
the Wise Metals deal will enable us to provide greater sustainable value to our customers globally. In addition to being a profitable business in its own right, with a customer base that includes leading names such as Anheuser-Busch InBev and Coca-Cola, Wise Metals enhances our global footprint and offering: firstly by increasing our exposure to the North American market; and secondly by supplementing our leading position in Europe. Over time, we expect to benefit from increased product development resources and technological capabilities, wider global reach and greater operational flexibility.
in Europe and the largest market for steel cans, this is a significant landmark in the drive towards 100% aluminium beverage cans. Currently, approximately 80% of cans in Europe are made from aluminium.
Plans for 2015 and 
beyond
2015 will be a year of 
implementation, with the decisions taken in 2014 translating into tangible activities across Constellium. Specifically, we will:• 
 e
nsure efficient integration of 
Wise Metals within Constellium and make it even more competitive, drawing on the skills and experience developed at our European plants – particularly the Lean program;
• 
 b
egin to ramp up capacity at 
Wise Metals to meet the North American demand for BiW;
•  work closely with our JV partner 
UACJ to start and ramp up on time the new BiW plant at Bowling Green (USA) scheduled for 2016;• 
 c
ontinue to build our global BiW 
capacity, including execution of our investments in new production lines in Europe, at Neuf-Brisach (France) and Singen (Germany); and
• 
 a
s aluminium continues to 
penetrate the mass automotive market, partner with Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) worldwide on R&D projects for aluminium-intensive solutions for the cars of the future.
Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products
How we meet 
customer needs
Being now the world #1 for closure 
stock and #1 in Europe and #3 in North America for can stock, we are market leaders in aluminium for packaging, as well as a growing and leading supplier to the automotive industry both in Europe and the US. Customers worldwide trust us to provide them with the innovative products and advanced alloys that they need to create value and competitive advantage. Our customers include major beverage and food can manufacturers such as Anheuser-Busch InBev, Ball, Coca-Cola, Crown and Rexam, specialty packaging producers like Amcor and leading automotive companies including Audi, Mercedes-Benz, BMW Group, PSA Peugeot Citroën and Tesla.
Packaging, which accounts for 
the majority of the business unit’s revenue is a large, strong and stable business that is expected to grow by around 2% annually. 
Demand in the automotive sector 
is growing at a much faster pace, particularly for Body-in-White (BiW) products such as car hood, door and roof panels. 
The business unit is also the 
largest non-integrated producer of foil stock in Europe and a world leader in aluminium solutions for bright and functional surfaces in lighting, decorative applications and cosmetics.
Highlights of 2014
The most significant development of 2014 was our announcement of the acquisition of Wise Metals that was completed on January 5, 2015 (see case study opposite). We also decided to invest €200 million in BiW capacity in Europe, of which €180 million is being invested in a new continuous annealing and conversion line in Neuf-Brisach, France. We are also investing in a new line at Singen, Germany, that is already producing revenue and meeting increased demand in Europe.
Driven by the Corporate Average 
Fuel Economy (CAFE) regulations in the US, which require significant reductions in fuel consumption, aluminium BiW is now penetrating the automotive mass market. In May, we signed a joint
-venture 
agreement with United Aluminium Corporation of Japan (UACJ) to supply BiW aluminium sheet to the fast-growing US automotive industry. The joint
-v
enture will 
have an initial target capacity of 100,000 metric tons of finished products. The semi-products – cold rolled coils – will be supplied from both partners’ rolling mills. Production is scheduled to start at the new Bowling Green, Kentucky, facility in the first half of 2016, with full capacity expected to be reached by 2018.
In packaging, we announced 
a partnership with Rexam to switch two of its steel can lines to aluminium in Spain. As Spain is one of the largest can markets  “This was a good year for our Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products business. We made a number of key decisions that will impact positively the business unit’s future and that of Constellium as a whole. These include the acquisition of Wise Metals as part of our ambitious investment plan to develop our Body-in-White capability both in the US and in Europe.”
Pierre Vareille, President of Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products ad interim
Tabstock production at Constellium
Aluminium ingots getting ready for the hot line at the  
Muscle Shoals plant Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201422
 23
Changing  
the game
In January 2015, Ford launched 
the new F-150, which is a game changer for the automotive industry worldwide. The new Ford F-150 – the most famous and popular vehicle in North America with sales running at approximately one every 45 seconds – is built with extensive use of high-strength, military-grade aluminium alloy. This is the first time that a mass market vehicle is built with such a high reliance on aluminium, and we are proud to be one of Ford’s largest suppliers of F-150 components.
Through the use of high-strength 
steel in the frame and aluminium alloy in the body, Ford has reduced the weight of the new F-150 by up to 700lbs and this has delivered the industry’s best towing and payload capability among full-size light-duty pickups. This is a tipping point for an industry coming to terms with tighter emissions standards worldwide. In the US, the CAFE standards are set to double by 2025, from 27 miles per gallon (7km per liter) to 55 miles per gallon (14km per liter). It is a similar story elsewhere in the world, with automotive manufacturers globally turning to aluminium to reduce weight and improve fuel efficiency.
Our role is to help customers 
exploit the advantages of aluminium and therefore we continue to meet consumer and legislative demands. In the wake of this landmark contract – which has established us not only as one of Ford’s largest suppliers of aluminium structural parts, but also the #1 provider in the US – we are already working with other high-volume OEMs to help them achieve similarly impressive weight savings. They are seeking opportunities to replicate the success of the F-150 and with aluminium now proven on a high automotive manufacturing platform, barriers no longer exist to prevent its rise as a truly mass market solution.This will enable us to deliver 
advanced products to customers with unparalleled speed. 
Plans for 2015  
and beyond
•  B ring our new production 
capabilities up to full capacity and ensure they can deliver high quality, on time, every time.
• 
 C
ontinue to win nominations 
from existing and new OEMs, including for relatively new product areas such as body structures and chassis. The industry trend is towards common platforms with a larger number of different vehicle models sharing the same components including front and rear CMS. The nominations we have won will drive the business in 2017 and beyond. With fewer in volume but more significant nominations likely to be available, it is more important than ever to have the proven global capacity and quality to deliver. 
• 
 C
apitalize on the partnership 
with Brunel University and Jaguar Land Rover, including the opening of the Advanced Light Metals Processing Research Center. This will incorporate a fully integrated direct chill casting facility and a full-size extrusion press. We expect to see the center begin to make progress in three key areas: light-weight material design; sustainability and recycling; and joining, pre-treatment and vehicle integration.
• 
 M
aintain the focus on Lean 
programs and processes, which drive costs down and customers’ satisfaction up. Lean made an important contribution to our quality, our on-time delivery and our working capital in 2014. Now we need to build on that progress in 2015 and generate an even better performance for our customers.
Automotive Structures and Industry
How we meet customer 
needs
Automotive Structures and 
Industry is a global business unit operating in two principal areas: automotive structural parts and Crash Management Systems (CMS); and hard and soft alloy extrusions for the automotive, transport and industrial markets, such as components for trains, trucks, buses, and power rails. The business unit is the #1 or #2 player in all key market segments.
We enjoy strong, long-term and 
well-established relationships with many of the world’s leading automotive Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) including Audi, BMW Group, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Ford, General Motors, Jaguar Land Rover, Mercedes-Benz and PSA Peugeot Citroën, all of which rely on aluminium’s physical properties and Constellium’s know-how to create vehicles that are lighter and therefore more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly. (See case study opposite for details of our role in the new Ford F-150.)
Environmental regulation, 
particularly the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards in North America, in combination with resurgent automotive market growth, is fueling an unprecedented and fast-growing demand for both aluminium structural parts and CMS among volume manufacturers of cars and trucks. Automotive sector analysts expect that by 2018 aluminiumwill account for 30% share of the total CMS market in Europe and 20% in the US respectively, and that combined aluminium CMS production for China, Europe and North America will reach more than 28 million units.
Automotive Structures and 
Industry has a global footprint, with operations in Europe, North America and China. The business unit has two additional integrated remelting centers that guarantee both a supply of prime extrusion billets and also contribute to our recycling efforts.
Highlights of 2014
Our strong performance in 2014 creates opportunities for all our stakeholders, including our people, and underpins our plans for the years ahead.
At our Van Buren plant in the US, 
we invested $40 million to double production capacity in order to take advantage of surging North American demand for automotive structural parts, as evidenced by the new Ford F-150 (see case study opposite). During 2014, we carried out a successful production ramp-up with Ford with the official inauguration of the plant extension in April 2015. The coming year will see production running at full capacity.
At the same time, we invested 
€10 million in new buildings and equipment at Gottmadingen in Germany, to meet demand from European customers including BMW Group. This line will be operational in 2015.
At Decin in the Czech Republic, we 
completed a €15 million casthouse and tube press line, and launched another growth program that invests a further €22.5 million in additional casting, extrusion and fabrication capacity at the same facility.
During 2014, we progressed 
the new state-of-the-art research facility in the UK which we jointly share with Brunel University and Jaguar Land Rover. With completion planned for the third quarter of 2015, the Advanced Light Metals Processing Research Center will give us by far the most rapid prototyping capability in our industry, with a full-sized extrusion press and casting equipment.   “The business unit has enjoyed another very successful year, significantly 
outperforming our competitors. We have grown adjusted EBITDA by 23% over  
2013 and for the fifth consecutive year achieved record levels of adjusted  
EBITDA per metric ton. In addition, we have continued to win important nominations and lay the groundwork for future success, particularly in the automotive market.”
Paul Warton, President of Automotive Structures and Industry
New production lines for automotive structures at the Van Buren plant
Ford F-150 windshield headers produced by Constellium25
65
9
7
Richard B. Evans  – 1 
Mr. Evans has served as Chairman of our 
Board since December 2012 and as a member of our Board of Directors since January 2011. 
Pierre Vareille  – 2
Mr. Vareille has served as Chief Executive Officer of Constellium and as a member of our Board of Directors since March 2012. 
Michiel Brandjes*  – 3 
Mr. Brandjes has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014. 
Philippe Guillemot*  – 4
Mr. Guillemot has served as a member of our Board of Directors since May 2013. 
Peter F. Hartman*  – 5
Mr. Hartman has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014.
*Independent DirectorGuy Maugis*  – 6
Mr. Maugis has served as a member of our 
Board of Directors since January 2011. 
Matthew H. Nord  (Not photographed)
Mr. Nord has served as a member of our Board of Directors since May 2010.
John Ormerod*  – 7 
Mr. Ormerod has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014.
Werner P. Paschke*  – 8 
Mr. Paschke has served as a member of our Board of Directors since May 2013.
Lori A. Walker* – 9
Ms. Walker has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014.24
1
23 4
For full biographies visit  
www.constellium.comBoard of Directors
8Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201415
627
Pierre Vareille  – 1
Chief Executive Officer 
President, Packaging and Automotive 
Rolled Products business unit on an interim basis
Marc Boone  – 2
Vice President, Human Resources
Nicolas Brun  – 3
Vice President, Communications
Béatrice Charon  – 4
Vice President, Business PlanningDidier Fontaine  – 5
Chief Financial Officer
Simon Laddychuk – 6
Vice President and Chief Technical  
Officer
Jeremy Leach  – 7
Vice President and Group General  
Counsel
Yves Mérel  – 8
Vice President, EHS and Lean  
TransformationLaurent Musy  – 9
President, Aerospace and Transportation business unit
Wesley N. Oberholzer  – 10
Vice President, Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products North America
Vittorio Rossetti  – 11
Chief Information Officer
Jun Tao  – 12
Vice President, Strategy and Business Development
Paul Warton  – 13
President, Automotive Structures and Industry business unit
411125
12
1326
Executive Committee
For full biographies visit  
www.constellium.com10
7
38
9Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201428
 29
•  t o review, evaluate and make 
recommendations to the full 
Board of Directors regarding our compensation policies and establish performance-based incentives that support our long-term goals, objectives and interests; 
• 
 t
o review and approve 
the compensation of our Chief Executive Officer, all employees who report directly to our Chief Executive Officer and other members of our senior management; 
• 
 t
o review and make 
recommendations to the Board of Directors with respect to our incentive and equity-based compensation plans; 
• 
 t
o set and review the 
compensation of and reimbursement policies for members of the Board of Directors; 
• 
 t
o provide oversight concerning 
selection of officers, management succession planning, expense accounts, indemnification and insurance matters, and separation packages; and
• 
 t
o provide regular reports to the 
Board of Directors and take such other actions as are necessary and consistent with our Amended and Restated Articles of Association.
Nominating/Corporate 
Governance Committee
Our Nominating/Corporate 
Governance Committee currently consists of three Directors.
Members
Richard B. Evans, Chair, 
Michiel Brandjes, Matthew H. Nord
Function
The principal duties and 
responsibilities of the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee are as follows: • 
 t
o establish criteria for Board 
and Committee membership and recommend to our Board of Directors proposed nominees for election to the Board of Directors and for membership on committees of our Board of Directors; and
• 
 t
o make recommendations to 
our Board of Directors regarding Board governance matters and practices. 
Executive Committee
Function
• 
 r
eviews all strategic issues 
and evaluates all significant 
proposed acquisitions or divestments, financial restructuring, alliances and strategic partnerships; 
• 
 de
velops and monitors 
implementation of key strategic, financial, investment and organizational decisions; 
• 
 c
ontrols the execution of the five-
year plan and of the Budget; 
• 
 r
eviews reports and proposals 
made by the Operations Committee to evaluate its economic and financial consequences; and
• 
 a
s and when required, submits 
reports, proposals and recommendations on all matters within its scope of responsibility to the Board of Directors.
Operations Committee
Chairman
Pierre Vareille, 
Chief Executive Officer
Members
• Business Unit Presidents
• Chief Financial Officer
• 
 V
ice President Strategy and 
Business Development
• 
 V
ice President Human ResourcesFunction
• 
 d
evelops and implements the 
operational business decisions, 
as defined by management and the Board of Directors; 
• 
 m
onitors the implementation 
and progress of significant operational projects;
• 
 m
onitors the execution of the 
Budget, and in particular the Free Cash Flow generation of the business; and
• 
 s
ubmits reports, proposals and 
recommendations on all matters relating to the operations to the Executive Committee.
Code of Conduct 
Our Worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets out the standard of behavior we expect from our employees. The Code governs the way Constellium acts in business, and how we expect our partners and suppliers to behave. It applies to all Constellium employees, subject to applicable local law. Compliance with the Code is essential to preserving and enhancing the Company’s reputation as a responsible corporate citizen, and ultimately, to maximizing shareholder value.
Whistleblower policy
We have implemented a whistleblower policy to foster an environment where our employees can act without fear of retaliation and report wrongdoing or suspected wrongdoing or irregularities of a financial, accounting, banking or corruption nature in Constellium to a reporting official. To facilitate this reporting, we are in the process of establishing an external hotline in all the countries and languages we have operations in.
Insider Trading policy
We have an Insider Trading policy which sets out the restrictions on, inter alia, trading in Constellium securities and the use of inside information.For more information on  
our Executive Committee  
see pages 26–27Governance
We are committed towards maintaining the highest 
standards of corporate governance to ensure our business is run in the best interests of our shareholders. This is a vital element of building trust and in acting with integrity.
Director independence 
We maintain a one-tier Board of Directors consisting of both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors (each a ‘Director’). Under Dutch law, the Board of Directors is responsible for our policy and day-to-day management. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director.
As a foreign private issuer under 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules, we are not required to have Independent Directors on our Board of Directors, except to the extent that our Audit Committee is required to consist of Independent Directors. However, our Board of Directors has determined that, under current NYSE listing standards regarding independence (which we are not currently subject to), and taking into account any applicable committee standards, Messrs. Brandjes, Guillemot, Hartman, Maugis, Ormerod, Paschke and Ms. Walker are Independent Directors. 
Our Board
The Board of Directors is responsible for our policy and day
-t
o-day management. 
The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director. Board meetings in 2014
The Board of Directors held 10 meetings in 2014 and reviewed matters including:
• 
 r
eports from the Board’s 
committees;
• 
 r
eports from the Chief Executive 
Officer (including EHS and 
M&A activity);
• 
 a
pproval of the 2013 
Annual Accounts;
• 
 a
pproval of filing of Form 20-F 
with the SEC;
• 
 a
pproval of the draft agenda for 
the Constellium General Meeting of Shareholders of June 11, 2014, including nomination of the new Non-Executive Directors;
• 
 a
mendment of the Delegation 
Authority;
• 
 a
pproval of the Wise Metals  
acquisition;
• 
 a
pproval of re-financing through 
issue of high-yield bonds issue and new revolving credit facility;
• 
 r
eports from the business units 
(on any major projects); and
• approval of 2015 budget.
Our Committees
Audit Committee
Members 
Our Audit Committee currently 
consists of five Independent Directors under the NYSE requirements: 
Werner P. Paschke, Chair, 
Philippe Guillemot, Guy Maugis, John Ormerod, Lori A. Walker Function 
Our Board of Directors has 
determined that three members, John Ormerod, Werner P. Paschke and Lori A. Walker, are audit committee ‘financial experts’ as defined by the SEC and also meet the additional criteria for independence of audit committee members under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
The principal duties and 
responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to oversee and monitor the following: 
• 
 o
ur financial reporting process 
and internal control system; 
• 
 t
he integrity of our consolidated 
financial statements; 
• 
 t
he independence, qualifications 
and performance of our 
independent registered public accounting firm; 
• 
 t
he performance of our internal 
audit function; 
• 
 o
ur related party transactions; 
and 
• 
 o
ur compliance with legal, ethical 
and regulatory matters. 
Remuneration Committee
Members 
Our Remuneration Committee 
currently consists of three Directors:
Matthew H. Nord, Chair, 
Richard B. Evans, Peter F. Hartman
Function
The principal duties and 
responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are as follows: For more information on the  
members of our Board of Directors see pages 24–25Constellium 
Business and sustainability  
performance report 201431
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 30
Engaging with stakeholders
Our stakeholders include suppliers, customers, 
employees, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), local communities, industry organizations and others in the aluminium value chain. Engaging with them proactively helps us to govern our business in line with their expectations and needs.
Who we engage with How we engage When we engage
Analysts and investorsAnnual analyst day, regular exchanges 
through our Investor Relations team• Quarterly earnings conference calls
• Analyst day once a year• Exchanges on a regular basis
CustomersVisits, industry associations, regular 
customer satisfaction surveys, trade shows• 
  B i or tri-annual customer satisfaction 
surveys organized within business units
• 
 M
eetings with customers for 
commercial and technical aspects
EmployeesEmployee feedback collection, works councils, Management Days, management calls, Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) days, customer presentations and business unit President roadshows, Chief Executive Officer plant visits, Chief Executive Officer memos as appropriate, Lean workshops, THANK YOU AWARDS, interaction with employee representatives• Exchanges throughout the year
• Biennial Global Employee Survey• 
 A
nnual business unit President 
roadshows
• 
 Q
uarterly LIVE magazine (internal 
newsfeed)
• Weekly newswires• Annual employee recognition program
Industry stakeholdersAluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), 
industry associations including European Aluminium, The Aluminum Association, International Aluminium Institute (IAI), Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques et Spatiales (GIFAS) and others. See ‘Memberships’ on page 77• 
  G eneral meetings and many other 
meetings for various working groups, taskforces
Local communitiesThis is managed at local levels. See ‘Supporting communities’ on pages 56 and 57• 
  O ne community program in each site
NGOsASI, community engagement activities •  3 –4 general meetings/year but many 
other meetings for various working groups, taskforces
ShareholdersAnnual General Meeting, roadshows •  A nnual General Meeting once a year
• Roadshows as appropriate
SuppliersCode of Conduct, visits, sustainability targets• 
  V isits are organized for new suppliers
• Regular audits
For more information  
see ‘Stakeholder perspectives’  
pages 39–41
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 31
Sustainability  
in focusIn this section: 
Sustainability highlights 32
Altogether more sustainable 34
Our materiality assessment 36
Stakeholder perspectives 39
Making our products more sustainable 42
Supporting our people 50
Making our operations more efficient 58
Doing business responsibly 64
Managing sustainability 68 “Constellium is making 
good progress delivering on our commitment to sustainability. Along with our rapid growth, we are working hard to shape the future of a responsible and sustainable aluminium industry.”
Laurent Musy
Chairman, Constellium Sustainability CouncilBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 201432
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 33
Sustainability highlights 
We continued to work hard in 2014 to embed sustainability 
across the business. These are some of the many achievements we recorded during the year. 
Improved energy 
efficiency at Ravenswood
Our unit at Ravenswood (USA) 
reduced electricity consumption by nearly 20,000 MWh, notably thanks to investing in a new motor drive for a rolling mill and replacing 80% of the plant lighting with LED lighting. 
Reinforced our 
commitment to Leadership Safety ToursWe extended our program of 
Leadership Safety Tours. These tours are a company‑wide initiative through which all our leaders – from senior management to shift supervisors – interact with their teams on a weekly basis and encourage all our people to identify simple, sustainable solutions on the shop floor.Implemented ISO 
50001 at Decin
Our Decin plant in the Czech 
Republic implemented the ISO 50001 standard on energy management. The standard specifies requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining and improving an energy management system.Carried out the 
2014 Global Employee Survey
Our second Global Employee 
Survey revealed a high overall participation rate of 75%,  
an 11% increase from 2012. We made headway in most categories, including employee engagement, customer focus, training and development, and providing clarity around our strategic direction. 
Performed Life 
Cycle Assessment studies on aluminium cans and car hoods
We performed third ‑p arty verified 
Life Cycle Assessment studies 
on two key products – a beverage can model and a car hood model, following the introduction of a sustainability check for every new product or process within our innovation process in 2013.
Launched our first 
materiality matrix based on GRI G4 guidelines
We launched our first materiality 
assessment exercise in line with international standards (Global Reporting Initiative’s G4). This has allowed us to identify the issues that are most important to internal and external stakeholders. Won recognition 
at the European Business Awards
Constellium was named 
Environmental and Corporate Responsibility Champion in France by the European Business Awards, which recognizes and rewards excellence, best practice and innovation in companies across the European Union.
Worked in 
partnership to develop the world’s first ‘2l/100km’ vehicle
In partnership with car 
manufacturers Renault and PSA Peugeot Citroën, and parts and tools supplier SNOP, we are participating in the Allegria project which was filed and validated by ADEME
1. This project 
aims to develop materials and technologies that will enable the development of a 2 litre/100km vehicle by 2020.
1.  A DEME: Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie. ADEME is the French state operator that supports environmental and energy transition.Contributed to the 
successful test flight of NASA’s Orion crew moduleConstellium proudly took 
part in the new era of space exploration on the journey to Mars, providing AIRWARE
® 
aerospace technology to NASA’s Orion spacecraft.  
AIRWARE
® technology was 
aboard Orion’s successful first flight test, Exploration Flight Test
‑1 (
EFT ‑1
) built by Lockheed 
Martin and designed for human exploration of deep space.
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201434
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 35
Altogether more sustainable
We have identified a series of commitments and targets 
which we use to evaluate our progress towards becoming a more sustainable business.
Products
We are committed to developing, producing and selling sustainable products that meet our customers’ needs now and in the future.
We will
Maximize recycling rates of our products,  
including after the end of their useful life
Continuously innovate and offer lighter, safer and 
infinitely recyclable solutions
Targets Progress
75% beverage can recycling rate  
in Europe by 2015
All major new innovation projects 
through Life Cycle Assessments by 2015
10% of sales from innovative products 
by 2015
For more information  
see page 43People
We are committed to ensuring our people are safe, skilled, motivated and engaged.
We will
Protect the safety and health of our employees, 
contractors and visitors as a top priority
Strive to enhance employee engagement  
and development
Targets Progress
60% improvement in recordable cases 
by 2014
No serious injuries in 2015
50% improvement in employee 
contributions by 2014
75% participation rate in the employee 
survey in 2014
Six‑p
oint improvement in the 
employee satisfaction rate in 2014
For more information  
see page 51
Operations
We are committed to minimizing the environmental impact of all our operations  
in terms of energy, waste  
and water.
We will
Further develop recycling
Optimize the use of natural resources, especially energyPrevent and minimize environmental impacts
Targets Progress
10% decrease in energy consumption 
per processed unit by 2015
Major European sites reaching  
ISO 50001 certification by 201575% total landfill reduction by 2020
For more information  
see page 59Responsible business
We are committed to undertaking the highest standards of governance across all our activities in line with Constellium values.
We will
Subscribe to the highest levels of transparency and 
accountability, and commit to develop company and industry sustainability programs
Promote the adoption and implementation of 
sustainability policies by our suppliers and contractors
Targets Progress
100% of key suppliers joining the 
UNGC by 2015
On track
Needs improvingAchievedMissed
This symbol identifies sustainability  
Key Performance Indicators throughout this report
For more information  
see page 65Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201436
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 37
Our materiality assessment
Our materiality assessment process guides our 
approach to sustainability by allowing us to identify and manage the issues that are most likely to impact the business and the stakeholders we surveyed. 
Our approach 
During 2014, we undertook 
a materiality assessment to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium and our surveyed stakeholders.
Based on surveys and regular 
engagement with our internal and external stakeholders, we identified a total of 17 material issues that form the basis of the potential issues covered in this report. 
Consulting with internal 
and external stakeholders
The first step in our materiality 
process was to consult with internal and external stakeholders to find out which sustainability issues they see as most important for Constellium. 
• 
 
Internal assessment:   
We administered a questionnaire 
to representatives from senior management and our Sustainability Council, of which 84 provided input. 
• 
 E
xternal assessment:  
We spoke to and conducted surveys with 27 external stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, investors, Non
‑G
overnmental 
Organizations, regulators, scrap traders and dealers, union representatives, certification bodies and industry associations.We asked each participant to rate the relative importance of 35 sustainability topics, which were identified through external benchmarking and grouped under five areas: environment, health and safety, people, supply chain and economy. We then asked participants to choose two or three priority issues within each area to create a comprehensive list of material issues. 
Implementing the 
outcomes
The exercise has shown good 
alignment between our internal and external stakeholder expectations for sustainability. It has confirmed that our four priority areas of products, people, operations and responsible business, are still the most relevant for our business. It has also given us focus within those areas as we look ahead and develop.Gathering additional insight
As part of the consultation, we asked open
‑e
nded questions. 
These were intended to give us a fuller understanding of what stakeholders are particularly interested in, and what they want to see more of.
Three main areas emerged: 1. 
 Re
cycling, particularly related to 
creating a circular economy
2. 
 M
anagement transparency, 
including accountability for our 
sustainability charter
3. 
 O
ur ambition regarding energy 
policy and relevant Key Performance Indicators
See page 39 for more information 
on how we are engaging with 
stakeholders, and an overview of the main topics raised in 2014 Mapping and  
prioritizing issues
We used the outcomes of our 
stakeholder survey to map all 35 issues. The 17 issues that were in the upper right half of the matrix were identified as our material issues and have been indicated in the chart below.
The following issues did not emerge 
as highly material: labor and human rights, treating suppliers with respect, local communities, work/life balance, diversity and absenteeism, water, renewable energy in operations, global warming, biodiversity, expanding our markets, traceability of our products, selecting suppliers on sustainability and performance.Of the issues that did not emerge as highly material, two in particular are of high interest to us, namely diversity and local communities. These topics have been communicated within the People pillar of this report. 
The remainder will be reported to 
interested stakeholders through other channels, such as our website (www.constellium.com). Initiatives regarding these issues are already underway, even though they have not been identified as material issues by our materiality assessment process.Importance to stakeholders (external) Very important Important
Very important Important Importance to Constellium (internal )Increase economic
performancePromote and
enfor ce ethical
business practicesReduce use of ha rmful
substancesCustomer
satisfaction
Innovation Increase external
recycling activities
Increase internal
recycling activities
Develop pr oducts with 
environmental beneﬁtsEnsure safety
at work
Impr ove empl oyee
satisfactio n
Impr ove ener gy
efﬁcienc y of operation s
Prevent pollution
from operationsReduce wast e
from operation sReduce our  
greenhouse gas 
emissionsDevelop 
training and
 empowerment
Reduce  
psycho-social
risksEngage suppliers
in sustainability
performance
Materiality matrix key 
Use this color key to see how each material issue fits within the four pillars of Constellium’s sustainability strategy:
  Products
  People
  Operations
  Responsible business
Pierre Vareille, Chairman of European Aluminium, introduces the 
Sustainability Roadmap towards 2025Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201438
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 39
Our materiality assessment
continued
The chart below shows where 
the primary impacts for each of the issues sit with respect to the boundaries of our business. In the following chapters, we will explain how we are managing these potential issues, engaging with people and partners across the supply chain, as necessary.
  Products
  People
  Operations
  Responsible business
Primary impacts outside Constellium
Primary impacts within and outside Constellium
Primary impacts within ConstelliumEngage suppliers in 
sustainability performance
Prevent 
pollution from 
operationsReduce our 
greenhouse 
gas emissionsIncrease 
external 
recycling 
activitiesIncrease 
internal recycling 
activities
Increase economic
performanceImprove 
employee
satisfaction
Reduce
waste from
operationsPromote and
enforce ethical 
business
practicesCustomer
satisfaction
Develop tr aining 
and empowermentInnovation
Improve energy efﬁciency of operationsReduce p sycho-social risksEnsure safety
at work
Reduce use of harmful 
substancesDevelop 
products with 
environmental 
beneﬁts
Scope and boundaries 
This materiality exercise has been conducted for Constellium in its entirety, and therefore considers the impacts of all of Constellium’s consolidated operations. We involved a range of stakeholders across different regions and business units in the materiality assessment process. This was an extensive process, but does not necessarily represent the totality of all our internal and external stakeholders’ views.We also used the guidance notes on accountability and the material aspects criteria defined by Global Reporting Initiative to inform our approach.Stakeholder perspectives
Stakeholder engagement ensures that our approach to 
sustainable business is relevant and effective. It gives us an outside perspective, helping us to evolve our business in line with both internal and external expectations.
Our approach 
There are many ways that we engage 
with our stakeholders – from 
meetings and business activities 
to membership and participation 
in organizations. 
Our stakeholders include employees 
and employee representatives, 
customers, suppliers, our Board 
of Directors, shareholders and 
investors, regulators and policy 
makers. They also include the 
communities in which we operate as 
well as sustainability organizations, 
including Non ‑G
overnmental 
Organizations and academic 
institutions concerned about the 
social, environmental and climate 
impacts of the production and use 
of aluminium products. Through our 
materiality assessment exercise, 
we have started to engage with our 
stakeholders in a more systematic 
manner. We have also connected 
closely with selected stakeholders 
during the development of 
this report.“This stakeholder consultation 
process should enable 
Constellium to further develop 
its sustainability policy, beyond 
already recognized strengths 
like the management of safety 
at work. This will help them 
tackle important sustainability 
challenges and improve the quality of the information 
included in the sustainability 
performance report.”
Pascal Thomas
AFNOR 
“By engaging in such a 
consultation process, 
Constellium took a relevant 
approach to define its 
sustainability priorities. 
As shareholders, we strongly 
support this determined 
attention to environmental, 
social and governance 
factors, as we understand 
sustainability as a potent lever 
for corporate competitiveness.”
Sébastien Blot
Bpifrance Customers seek leading 
action on environmental 
impacts
Many of our customers expect 
Constellium to lead on reducing 
the environmental impacts of our 
products. Others emphasized 
the importance of improving 
sustainability across the supply 
chain, and some suggested that 
we could usefully carry out further work on improving beverage can 
recycling rate.
Some regulatory bodies 
push for us to retain 
industry leadership
Some regulatory bodies we interact 
with acknowledge our performance with regard to safety and also 
that we have given due attention to the environmental impacts of 
our business activities. However, 
in 2014 they also emphasized 
the importance of us retaining 
our leading industry position. 
A number of them also expressed 
concern regarding psycho
‑s
ocial 
risks and reducing stress levels 
among employees.
Research organizations call  
for continued investment
Innovation is fundamental to 
creating products that customers 
want. Through our engagement in 
2014, several research organizations 
encouraged us to continue investing 
in research and development. 
See page 30 for a summary of the 
main ways that we engage with 
our key stakeholder groups
Constellium Prize 2014 awarded  
to Dr. Thierry LoiseauBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 201440
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 41
Stakeholder perspectives
continued
Industry associations 
emphasize the importance  
of transparency
Some industry associations 
have asked us to work towards increased levels of transparency and accountability, including an increase in our external reporting activities.
Investors support our 
sustainability approach
We are focused on ensuring that 
investors see Constellium as a leader in high value
‑
added aluminium 
products and solutions. The surveyed investors indicated that we must continue to work on positioning ourselves as a leader in sustainability. In 2014, they acknowledged our continued commitment to ensuring safety at work. They also stressed the importance of good corporate ethics and transparency and indicated they would welcome additional communication on these topics. 
Non-Governmental 
Organizations see us  
as a valuable player
We engage with Non ‑G overnmental 
Organizations, especially those 
operating in the social and environmental sectors. They stress that because of our very specific position in the center of the aluminium value chain, we have an opportunity to be a key player. Most of them also emphasize the importance of working towards reducing the environmental footprint of our products and operations – with recycling possibilities and increased investment in renewable energy being specific issues raised in 2014. They also stressed the importance of having a clear and well
‑d
efined greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions target, which we are currently working on. Suppliers want  
common standards and 
increased recycling
Suppliers are a crucial part of our 
value chain and play an important role in the overall sustainability of our business. Most of our suppliers express the need for a clear and  
well
‑d
efined supply chain strategy.
Our scrap dealers and traders emphasize the need to promote the benefits of recycling for the environment.Suppliers are 
supportive of creating shared standards across the supply chain with the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI)Developing  
the world’s  
first sustainable aluminium standard
Leaders from the aluminium sector 
unveiled a new comprehensive standard that aims to improve the industry’s environmental, social and governance performance throughout its entire value chain, including plans to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. 
This is the culmination of a 
year
‑
long consultative dialog 
involving industry leaders and civil society organizations. 
Constellium joined Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative (ASI) at its inception and we have participated in the development of the new standard under the leadership of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The voluntary standard will allow the industry to better respond to growing customer and consumer demand for a more sustainable supply chain. 
Once implemented, the new 
standard will allow industry participants to certify aluminium products through a third
‑
party certification system. 
This certification will signal that products have been produced in line with the standard’s principles relating to environmental performance, social responsibility and governance practices. We see the new ASI standard as a natural extension of our own sustainability efforts. By working together with our stakeholders, we can become more sustainable as an industry. We are proud of our contribution to the development of the ASI standard. In our view, this standard is truly groundbreaking as it brings together players across the entire aluminium value chain and defines a Chain of Custody, which directly links sustainable practices to the end products used by businesses and consumers.
Certification bodies 
encourage greater consistency
Some of the certification bodies we 
engaged with in 2014 encouraged us to be consistent across all aspects of our sustainability communications. Maintaining healthy 
relationships with union representatives
In 2014, union representatives 
expressed the need to maintain healthy management–union relationships, and some shared  
their views on the environmental impacts of our business. We take our stakeholders and their expectations very seriously. We are trying to address the expectations that stakeholders have raised. This report provides information on the key actions taken.Strengthening 
sustainability in  
the supply chain
In 2014, we launched a supplier 
assessment campaign to strengthen our suppliers’ sustainability credentials and align them with our vision and strategy. 
Part of this campaign included 
the launch of a pilot program with an external and independent assessment company – an online platform which allows companies to monitor the environmental and social performance of their global suppliers. 
We have also been promoting our 
Code of Conduct to key suppliers and encouraging them to adopt the principles set out by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Setting up the process has not been straightforward, but we are starting to see positive results. For example, one of our suppliers has joined the UNGC as a result of this dialog.
See pages 65 –67 to see how 
we are engaging with suppliersRead more at 
www.aluminium ‑s
tewardship.orgCreating an 
industry ‑wi
de 
roadmap to 2025
We have helped develop the 
European Aluminium Industry’s Sustainability Roadmap towards 2025. The roadmap seeks to create a vision, future outlook, priority areas and targets which will help enhance sustainability in the aluminium value chain. We have supported European Aluminium as it engaged with the European Union decision
‑m
akers 
and the wider policy community to promote the outstanding properties of aluminium and optimize the contribution our metal can make to meeting Europe’s sustainability challenges.
Key stakeholders interacting at the launch of European Aluminium  
Industry’s Sustainability Roadmap towards 2025Human rightsBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 201443
Customer satisfaction
Our customers include some 
of the largest manufacturers in the aerospace, packaging and automotive industries. Meeting their expectations and anticipating their needs are fundamental to building enduring relationships and our long
‑
t
erm business success. 
At the Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products business unit, we monitor how satisfied our customers are through bi
‑
annual 
satisfaction surveys which help to identify areas where we need to take action. Results are already visible. Between 2012 and 2014, we witnessed a clear improvement in customer satisfaction at Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products. The business unit mandated an external research agency to conduct its customer satisfaction survey, covering all aspects of our offer, including the quality of our products, logistics, technical support, sales service, management, level of innovation, as well as sustainability and communication topics. The global satisfaction rate at Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products has increased by 10 points since 2012. 
Since its launch two years 
ago, our company
‑wi
de Lean 
Transformation program has made a significant contribution to customer satisfaction. Our focus on quality control and just in time production have helped us reduce the percentage of missed deliveries by half and the number of customers complaints by 70%. For more on Lean Transformation see pages 13 and 14. 
Our Chief Executive Officer Pierre 
Vareille named 2014 the ‘Year of Quality’, reinforcing quality at the heart of our approach to building customer satisfaction, supported by our slogan ‘Quality makes the difference’. This philosophy was clearly demonstrated in late 2014 by the Automotive Structures and Industry extrusions plant at Sierre. We organized an extensive Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) level one workshop that took place at one of the site’s major rail production facilities. Key highlights of this workshop included strong team motivation, great team effort, a high participation rate (32 people) and excellent overall results. Thanks to the workshop, the team has now defined clear improvement actions as part of TPM level two and three workshops, reinforcing our Lean culture.We also held a Truck Preparation Area workshop to improve our on
‑
t
ime in ‑f
ull delivery performance 
and reduce inventory at our casthouse in Issoire, in line with our Lean culture. Truck Preparation Areas play an important role in the process efficiency of our operations. They involve organizing the shipping area of a production unit around specific customer orders to control incoming and outgoing product flow.
2015 is the ‘Year of Just In Time’, 
to ensure optimum customer satisfaction. We will pursue continuous improvement on this front.
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 42
Making our products more sustainable
We must design, manufacture and sell products that meet 
our customers’ needs – both now and into the future. For us, this boils down to delivering high
‑q
uality products efficiently, 
developing innovations that anticipate market needs and reducing the environmental impacts across the aluminium life
‑c
ycle. 
Partnering with 
customers 
to increase 
efficiency
In 2014, Constellium’s 
Ravenswood plant created a 
Lean system for leading tank 
trailer manufacturer Heil Trailer 
International. Working with 
Champagne Metals, the team 
reduced the manufacturer’s 
lead ‑t
ime while improving 
delivery times and reducing 
time ‑
lags across the entire 
supply chain.
“ T
he driving force behind this 
was to improve the overall 
business processes between 
the two companies.”
Andrew Cordell
Sales Manager, ConstelliumMateriality coverage 
• Customer satisfaction
• Innovation• 
 D
evelop products with 
environmental benefits
• Increase recycling activities
Targets 
•  7 5% beverage can recycling 
rate in Europe by 2015
• 
 A
ll major new innovation 
projects through Life Cycle 
Assessments (LCAs) by 2015
• 
 1
0% of sales from innovative 
products by 2015
Performance 
•  L atest available data show 
continuous improvement with 69.5% beverage can recycling rate in Europe in 2012
• 
 O
ver the last 12 months, 73% 
of new projects incorporated a sustainability checklist as part of their project reviews. Depending on the outcome of this checklist, LCAs were performed
• 
 A
head of our target with 13% of 
sales from innovative products in 2014
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201444
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 45
Making our products more sustainable
continued
Innovation
With its properties of lightness, 
strength, formability, corrosion ‑
r
esistance and infinite recyclability, 
aluminium is the ideal solution for many applications. 
Constellium products bring 
innovative qualities to our three main markets of automotive, aerospace and packaging, including reduced fuel consumption and reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
However, constant innovation is 
required to make sure that aluminium remains a material of choice, capable of delivering sustainable and proven advantages to our customers and to consumers worldwide.
Based in Voreppe, France, C
‑T
EC, 
our technology center, has a proven 
track record of conceiving and incubating ideas that shape the world (see ‘Innovation’ on page 15). Sometimes these innovations may take the form of incremental improvements. At other times, they can be true breakthroughs. At all times, we believe that an innovation must be commercially viable if it is to be adopted by our customers and incorporated in transformational products that must deliver in the marketplace. So instead of focusing on the number of patents we file, we monitor the percentage of annual Constellium sales generated by products or processes created in the previous five years. Our objective is 10% by the end of 2015, and in 2014 we achieved 13%, so we are already well ahead of target.
In one of the highlights of the year, 
we perfected a new AIRWARE
® 
casting system that enables us to produce aluminium
‑l
ithium billets 
using advanced alloys which bring the advantages of AIRWARE
® to new aerospace applications and deliver improved buy
‑t
o‑
fly ratios1. 
Developed at C ‑T
EC, this system is 
now in the final stages of trials. 
1.  I n the aerospace industry, the ‘buy ‑t o‑fl y’ 
ratio is routinely used to describe the 
amount of raw material required to produce a finished part.
13%   
of sales from innovative  
products in 2014We also developed new lighter ‑
we
ight, stronger alloys to be used in 
Crash Management Systems for the 
automotive industry and supported our plants in developing a Body
‑i
n‑
W
hite (BiW) capability by improving 
processes and optimizing equipment for R&D.
Developing products with 
environmental benefits
Aluminium is a finite resource. 
Its manufacture uses energy and water, and waste is formed as a by‑product. But it is also a lightweight, more readily recyclable alternative to other materials – offering opportunities to reduce environmental impacts across its life
‑c
ycle. 
As a major manufacturer of aluminium products, it is our responsibility to work closely with others in the value chain to minimize these impacts, from production and distribution through to design and end
‑us
e. Across all 
markets, our customers look to us to offer solutions that are cost
‑e
ffective, 
efficient, and help them meet their environmental objectives. 
We have the opportunity to drive 
significant change with our products by bringing new solutions to existing markets. 
In the automotive industry, for 
example, the Aluminum Association highlights that using aluminium instead of steel in cars could save up to 44 million tons of carbon emissions each year. Last year we worked in partnership with car manufacturers Renault, PSA Peugeot Citroën, and parts supplier SNOP to develop the world’s first affordable 2 litre/100km car. This effort forms part of our work for the Allegria project (see ‘Sustainability highlights’ on page 33 for more), which aims to address the challenge of significantly lowering industry
‑w
ide fuel consumption.
In the aerospace market, our AIRWARE
® lightweight alloys are 
reducing the weight of components, and reaping significant fuel reduction benefits (see ‘Innovation’ on the opposite page). And in the aviation industry, our emphasis on end
‑o
f‑li
fe recycling through 
projects such as SENTRY (see ‘Recycling partnerships’ on page 49 for more) are helping to close the loop of our value chain, avoid waste and reduce energy use, water and greenhouse gas emissions. 
Collaboration has been central to 
this drive. In 2014, we continued our work with the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) to bring together organizations from across the value chain as well as NGOs to establish a standard for responsible aluminium.
We also contributed to the European 
Aluminium Industry’s Sustainability Roadmap towards 2025, helping to develop targets that enhance sustainability (see ‘Creating an industry
‑w
ide roadmap to 2025’ on 
page 41 for more).
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)
To improve the overall sustainability of our products, we look to identify ways of embedding environmental benefits throughout a product’s life. One of the key ways to achieve this is to conduct a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). 
At the end of 2013, we introduced a 
sustainability check for every new product or process at the innovation phase of product development. Here, members from our research and technology, sales, marketing, strategy, general management and production teams meet to decide whether or not to pursue a project Assessing lifetime impact 
LCA is a technique to assess the environmental impacts of a given product throughout its life, from raw materials extraction for the original manufacturing process through usage to its end
‑o
f‑
life. 
This is a vital tool in mapping the upstream impacts and downstream benefits of our products, and helps identify where environmental improvements can be made at various stages of the product life
‑
c
ycle. It provides an overview of 
impacts across different categories such as greenhouse gas emissions water eutrophication, acidification, resource depletion, toxicity and waste production.
73%   
of new projects  
incorporated a sustainability checklist as part of their project reviews in 2014
based on criteria including environmental risks or opportunities. Over the last 12 months, 73% of project reviews performed at our C
‑T
EC technology center 
incorporated this check. 
During the sustainability check, 
we also decide if an LCA should be conducted. LCA tools are used to support our decision
‑m
aking 
process and can be used across common products and processes to broadly identify the most significant environmental impacts. In 2014, no mandatory LCA studies took place, as no case of significant uncertainties or potential negative impacts were found. 
GRIPSTER ™: 
the quiet revolution
Refrigerated trailer deliveries to 
city premises can cause excessive noise and disturb local residents and businesses. Launched in 2014, our new GRIPSTER ™ product 
offers a superior tread pattern for refrigerated vehicle floors. It is the only solution on the market that combines greater durability and better grip with reduced noise qualities that meet the requirements of PIEK, the organization in Europe which certifies low noise vehicles. 
GRIPSTER ™ is a differentiated 
product offer for the tread 
plate market and we anticipate converting customers from polyester or extruded floors. Testing began in the summer of 2014 with vehicles operated by French truck Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) Aubineau, Chereau and Lamberet. Feedback was positive and demand is now increasing. We believe that soon, several hundred vehicles manufactured by these OEMs will incorporate GRIPSTER ™.
GRIPSTER™ pattern for tread plate
Our innovative automotive products displayed at C ‑T EC Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201446
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 47
Recycling
Using recycled aluminium reduces 
the need for primary aluminium and therefore reduces waste, avoids resource depletion and reduces GHGs across an aluminium product’s life
‑c
ycle. 
In the aluminium industry there are two key sources of recycled material:
• 
 e
nd‑o
f‑
life scrap metal, which is 
material that has already been 
used and disposed of; and
• 
 p
rocess scrap metal, produced 
during the manufacturing process. 
From an environmental point of view, only end
‑o
f‑
life scrap can be 
associated with a lower environmental footprint, because its impacts have already been taken into account during its initial life. Of course, process scrap is always recycled because we acknowledge our responsibility to retain it in the manufacturing loop.The misleading concept of 
recycled content
Some players in the industry use 
‘recycled content’ as a metric, which measures the amount of recycled aluminium in products as an indication of how environmentally friendly that product is. For us, this metric is misleading because: 
• 
 i
t fails to distinguish between end ‑
o
f‑
life and other scrap content. 
This can encourage inefficiencies 
in production because it rewards wasteful processes that produce more scrap; and
• 
 t
here is only a limited amount 
of recycled aluminium available globally. Logically, this means that increasing recycled material on one product line will remove it from others, thus offering no actual benefit for the environment.69.5%  
beverage can recycling  
rate achieved in Europe  
in 2012
Therefore, having products with higher than average amounts of ‘recycled content’ does not make any difference to the overall impact of the aluminium industry (see diagram below).
 
 W
e have continued to engage in 
industry initiatives to promote 
better handling of recycling and recycling metrics, notably in relation with Metal Packaging Europe and European Aluminium initiatives
1.
1.  S ee ‘Recycling rate vs recycled content’ and 
‘Metal as a permanent material’ documents 
at http://metalpackagingeurope.org/what
‑
we‑s
tand
‑f
or/Making our products more sustainable
continued
There were a significant number 
of cases where an LCA was recommended to support product promotion, two of them leading to a decision to proceed – both detailed in ‘Life Cycle Assessment in practice’ below.In 2014, we extended the scope of our LCA tools to cover a broader range of products and processes. In addition, we increased the number of impact categories from 5 to 22 and these now cover most of those identified by IMPACT 2002+ and CML
1. We also developed some more 
specialized LCA models for specific product categories. Our target is for all new major innovation projects to go through a screening using LCA tools by the end of 2015.
1.   I mpact 2002+ and CML are LCA 
methodologies, covering a wide range of 
impacts, from water, soil and air impacts as well as GHG, land occupation, resources depletion and toxicity.
Producer 1
Products 1 Products 2Producer 2Sharing  
the limited 
sc
rap poolLife Cycle 
Assessment in practice
In 2014, we conducted two full 
LCA studies to improve our understanding of the sustainability risks and opportunities relating to aluminium automobile hoods and beverage cans, and to demonstrate the intrinsic performance of our products. 
Automobile hoods
We wanted to investigate the effects of using an aluminium car hood produced by Constellium instead of a traditional steel version. Assessed by a third party critical review led by Quantis and using real manufacturing data from plant processes and metal supply, the LCA showed that the proposed aluminium hood had significantly lower greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions than its steel alternative. 
More precisely, GHG impacts of 
the aluminium hood (156kg CO
2 eq.) 
based on our material were found to be 37% lower than for a steel one (247kg CO
2 eq.). Despite higher 
impacts associated with the upstream aluminium processes, the aluminium hood showed lower overall impacts throughout the whole life
‑c
ycle. This is 
mainly because the combination of strength and lightness of aluminium achieves major weight savings, and hence lower fuel consumption during use. Its efficient recycling also helps to recover a significant part of the initial investment. 
Aluminium beverage cans
We were also keen to understand the effects of recycling rates on carbon emissions for aluminium cans manufactured with our metal. Once again using real manufacturing data, we proved that an average recycling rate of 69.5% yields a carbon footprint of 80g CO
2 eq. for our own cans1. This is 
a favorable figure when compared to the European average of 94g  CO
2 eq. 
Based on a recycling rate of 90%, which is representative of many European countries, this figure further reduces to 67g CO
2 eq.
per can2. These results highlight the vital importance of increasing end
‑
o
f‑
life recycling rates to improve 
the sustainability of the industry, and confirm Constellium’s strong position relative to competitors.
 “ Rio Tinto Alcan is proud to 
collaborate with Constellium for the evaluation of the environmental footprint of their products. Rio Tinto Alcan’s very low carbon footprint aluminium helps Constellium and its customers to reduce their global environmental footprint and to make aluminium an always better solution.”
 Jérome Lucaes
Director Material Stewardship, Rio Tinto Alcan
1. 
 6
9.5% is the EU+EFTA average recycling 
rate for 2012 (most recently published).
2. 
 G
ermany, Belgium, Luxembourg, Sweden, 
Norway, Finland, Switzerland all perform 
at 90% or higher recycling rates, according to the most recent data currently available (2012) – press release from European Aluminium, March 16, 2015.-50050100150200250300Aluminium vs Steel (kg CO2 eq.)
Aluminium
hoodSteel
hood
Metal production Use End-of-lifeAluminium beverage can (g CO /can)
Constellium Industry averageRecycling rate %60
5040708090100110120130
0 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100102 eq.
Increasing recycled content offers no actual environmental benefit
With a limited scrap pool, increasing the recycled content of one product is made possible by decreasing the recycled content of another. This is why, at Constellium, we focus on making the scrap pool bigger by increasing end
‑o
f‑li
fe recycling rates.Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201448
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 49
Repurposing  
6,000 tons  
of wasteThe new recycling furnace in Decin 
operated at its full annual capacity for the first time in 2014, recycling 6,000 tons of aluminium. 
The furnace recycles two different 
sorts of material, both of which are traditionally difficult to recycle: small spirals of waste aluminium, known as turnings; and painted or coated end
‑o
f‑
life scrap.Not only does the furnace mean that our customers can now access an efficient solution to recycle their turnings, it also allows us to efficiently transform end
‑
o
f‑
life demolition scrap back to 
wrought products.
Making our products more sustainable
continued
Increasing end ‑o f‑li fe 
recycling across the industry
Our approach is to focus our efforts 
on increasing end ‑o
f‑
life recycling 
and designing with end ‑o
f‑
life 
recycling in mind. Recycling is a shared challenge, and increasing end
‑o
f‑
life recycling is the best way 
of getting more recycled metal back for a new life. 
At the same time we aim to minimize 
the amount of scrap generated across our operations, and recycle any scrap that we do produce, despite our best efforts. 
Key activities in 2014 included:• 
 I
mproving end ‑o
f‑
life collection 
rates, particularly in packaging.  
We have endorsed the collective target set by the European 
beverage can industry to raise the recycling rate to 75% by the end of 2015, and are partners in the ‘Every Can Counts’ initiative – a consumer campaign to increase recycling rates of beverage cans. Latest available data show continuous improvement with 69.5% achieved in 2012, up from 52% in 2005 (and 43% in 2000);
• 
 I
mproving end
‑o
f‑li
fe processes, 
particularly dismantling and shredding. See our partnerships with IRT M2P, CR3 and SENTRY on the opposite page;
•
  
 E
nhancing the recycling of wrought 
products into new wrought products, through better sorting. We have been working with metal recyclers to validate the feasibility of recycling properly sorted demolition scrap and turning it into new products;
• 
 L
owering the amount of 
scrap generated by our customers, particularly in the aerospace market; and
• 
 D
eveloping more scrap ‑f
riendly 
alloys that will further develop the use of scrap in wrought alloys, thus avoiding potential down
‑c
ycling in 
cast products.
Next steps include our involvement in recycling in the US, notably through the recent acquisition of Wise Metals. Looking ahead 
•   M aintain our commitment 
to customer satisfaction by working on projects such as Lean phase 2 (see page 43 for more information)
• 
 P
ush for new innovations such 
as lightweighting and more scrap tolerant alloys that bring environmental benefits to our products
• 
 C
ontinue to invest in research 
and technology to create successful new products and prepare for future developments
• 
 F
urther expand our use of Life 
Cycle Assessments (LCAs) and ensure they are undertaken on all new major developments
• 
 C
ontinue to work with key 
stakeholders to create and enhance efficient end
‑o
f‑
l
ife recycling processes for 
aluminium products
Core project team at Decin, inaugurating the new furnaceRecycling partnerships:
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative: We are collaborating to establish a standard for responsible aluminium across the value chain. 
Canibal:  A one
‑o
f‑
a‑k
ind machine 
at Constellium Paris and the Neuf ‑
B
risach plant that gobbles up used 
beverage cans, plastic bottles 
and plastic cups. The Canibal also sorts and crushes used containers. Every ton of waste generated by Canibal is equivalent to 2.5 tons of carbon credits.
CR
3: We are a member of the 
Center for Resource Recovery 
and Recycling that brings together universities and industry partners to improve recycling processes, through better sorting, metal composition analysis and conditioning of scrap.
Industry Associations:  
As members of European 
Aluminium and International Aluminium Institute we work with others on industry challenges, including the Aluminum Association in the US. Every Can Counts: We are working together on a communication and collection program to boost beverage can recycling rates. 
IRT M2P:  We are associated with 
its ‘LCA and Recycling’ program, 
sharing and improving knowledge and practices in the field of end
‑o
f‑
life recycling – especially 
in automotive. 
Metal Packaging Europe: We are 
advocating for the notion of metals as permanent material and on the use of relevant recycling metrics.
SENTRY:
 Led by the Basque 
GAIKER ‑I
K4, IK4
‑L
ORTEK and IK4
‑
A
ZTERLAN R&D centres, SENTRY 
is part of the Clean Sky program. 
Its objective is to define dismantling and recycling operations for new metallic aero
‑s
tructures with 
the minimum environmental impact, to maximize potential reuse of the recovered materials. Through SENTRY, the Europe
‑ba
sed 
companies Dassault Aviation, AELS and Constellium, together with the Israeli IAI, are working with IK4 members to develop new fuselage technologies and end
‑
o
f‑
life procedures to benefit the 
aviation sector, aluminium industry and environmental assessment in general.Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201451
Ensuring safety at work
Environment, Health and Safety 
(EHS) is the number one priority for Constellium – we want every employee, visitor and contractor to return home safely every day. 
Using EHS FIRST , our comprehensive 
and integrated EHS management 
system, has improved our safety record in recent years, yet we can – and must – do better. In 2014, the number of serious injuries including fatalities decreased from seven to four. However, the single fatality we experienced during the year detracts significantly from this achievement. In December, at Chippis, Switzerland an employee was killed in a molten metal explosion during the casting process. We deeply regret this tragic accident, which strengthens our resolve to do everything we can to ensure the safety of all our people.
Learning from this incident, we have 
introduced several new measures to protect employees during casting. These include constructing new physical structures, such as screens and cabins, and replacing manual activities where possible.
Our Recordable Case Rate
1 remained 
largely unchanged at 2.8. This rate 
has reduced over the last decade, from 13 in 2004, largely through the introduction of best practice measures. Achieving a further reduction is a key challenge, but it is one we face with resolve and commitment.
All our plants use a structured 
problem
‑s
olving methodology to 
identify the root cause of safety or environmental incidents under an EHS directive. All recordable cases, high potential near misses, high potential first aid incidents and environmental events must be investigated through our 8D (Discipline)
2 problem ‑
s
olving process within five days. 
During 2014, we continued to assess the effectiveness of how we implement this methodology with our effectiveness score rising from 75% in 2013 to 87%. 
204  
8D investigationsin Constellium in 2014
This score measures how effectively the 8D process has been performed three months after the incident, against a 100% ideal assessment. At the same time, we increased the number of 8D investigations from 72 to 204.
Improving safety performance
We continue to develop new processes and modify existing ones to improve our safety performance. The two fatalities in 2013 and the fatality in 2014 have led to significant new programs. These include a range of initiatives to address the dangers of crane operation and working at height, following the fatalities at our plants in Ravenswood, West Virginia and Levice, Slovakia in 2013 (see ‘Working safely at height’ on page 52).
1.  R ecordable Case Rate measures the number 
of fatalities, serious injuries, lost time 
injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments per one million hours worked.
2. 
 T
he 8D (Discipline) problem ‑s
olving method 
is a structured, step ‑b
y‑s
tep approach to 
understanding a problem and developing solutions. It prevents problem solvers from jumping to premature conclusions before a problem is properly defined and its root cause identified. Materiality coverage 
• Ensuring safety at work
• 
 Re
ducing use of 
harmful substances
•  I
mproving employee satisfaction
• 
 Re
ducing psycho ‑s
ocial risks 
(work ‑re
lated stress)
• 
 D
eveloping training 
and empowerment
Targets 
•  6 0% improvement in recordable 
cases by 2014
• 
 N
o serious injuries in 2015
•  5
0% improvement in employee 
suggestions by 2014 
• 
 7
5% participation rate in the 
employee survey in 2014 
• 
 S
ix‑p
oint improvement in the 
employee satisfaction rate 
in 2014
Performance 
•  O ur Recordable Case Rate 
remained largely unchanged at 2.8
• 
 I
t is with great sadness that 
we report one fatality in 2014. The number of serious injuries including this fatality was four
• 
 I
mprovement in number of 
employee suggestions, with 58% now making at least one suggestion per month
• 
 1
1.4% improvement in 
employee survey participation in 2014 to 75%
• 
 T
wo‑p
oint improvement in 
employee satisfaction rateBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 50
Supporting our people
Our aim is for Constellium to be recognized as the natural 
home for talented and dedicated employees. We know that a safe, content and engaged workforce translates directly into improved business performance, and we will continue  
to invest in initiatives to support our people.Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201452
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 53
We are committed to sharing best 
practices on EHS across the broader industry and in 2014 again collaborated with European Aluminium, the International Aluminium Institute and the Aluminum Association in the US on a range of initiatives.
  For more information see  
‘Stakeholder perspectives’ on  
pages 39–41
Reducing use of harmful 
substances 
As our use of chemicals is a material 
issue, during the year we continued to evaluate how we handle harmful substances such as hydrofluoric acid, which remains essential to our manufacturing processes. As a result, we improved the ways in which we use, transport and store this substance.
Improving employee 
satisfaction
We value our employees highly and 
work hard to ensure they enjoy maximum job satisfaction; we believe this translates into improved business performance. 
In 2012, we launched our biennial 
employee survey program, which is designed to understand our employees’ needs and improve satisfaction. Every employee had the opportunity to take part in the survey, either via the internet or on paper. The survey identified our key strengths and areas for improvement, and in 2014 we carried out a second survey to evaluate the progress we had made.
75% 
participation rate in the  
employee survey in 2014Creating a great 
place to work
Our Gottmadingen automotive 
production site in Germany recorded the highest scores in the employee survey, with a participation score of 98% and a satisfaction score of 90%, up from 85% and 77% respectively in 2012. This performance was achieved despite the plant’s rapid growth from around 30 employees when it was established in 2000 to some 550 today.
At the heart of this strong 
performance is a culture of teamwork and trust, empowerment and mutual respect. The key performance tool deployed by the plant’s stable management team is to lead and work alongside people, listening to what employees say but also hearing what they are not saying. Quality and high
‑p
erformance 
delivery are core objectives for managers, but so too are ‘leading with a smile’, being approachable and being alert to employee stress.The results at Gottmadingen were achieved through a twin focus on engagement and communication. For example, in 2014, managers at the plant again increased their shop floor tours, ensuring that employees are treated with respect and that managers are aware of any issues. Employees responded with a high level of suggestions per month, with around 85% of all employees making at least one improvement suggestion per month. This feedback underlines the value of direct face
‑t
o‑
f
ace engagement.
The management team organizes twice
‑y
early meetings with 
all employees to inform them about key business and site issues. The meetings include: an assessment of the market; a forecast of future performance; an outline of projects currently underway and planned; an outline of any development plans for the plant; and a Q&A session where employees are encouraged to interact with management. 
Supporting our people
continued
Working safely 
at height
Working at height is inherently 
dangerous, yet sometimes essential to our operations. In 2014, following a height
‑r
elated fatality 
at the plant in the previous year, the EHS team at Levice in Slovakia developed and implemented an innovative yet relatively simple solution which reduced height
‑
r
elated risk to employees and 
contractors by 89%. 
The Working @ Height initiative 
(W@H) included the installation of new fixed ladders and railings to working platforms as well as the purchase of dedicated safety equipment. The Levice plant now features a total of 13 new safe working areas and three new service platforms on existing crane tracks.
In September 2014, W@H was a 
Gold Winner at the Constellium THANK YOU AWARDS which were hosted by Chief Executive Officer Pierre Vareille. These annual awards are designed to foster excellence throughout the Company and pay tribute to the talented people who support our business.
We extended our program of Leadership Safety Tours during 2014. These tours are a company
‑
w
ide initiative through which 
all our leaders – from senior management to shift supervisors – interact with their teams on a weekly basis and encourage all our people to identify simple, sustainable solutions on the shop floor. This is a direct and effective means of gathering feedback to improve safety performance on the ground and is now a dedicated EHS Key Performance Indicator. A new EHS template for daily Compliance to Rules Tours and the Leadership Safety Tours makes it easier and more effective to monitor and follow
‑
u
p on situations that are potentially 
harmful. Compliance to Rules tours of our plants help us identify any deviations from rules and to take the necessary corrective actions.We also launched a new communications program based on the FIRST  acronym below, to 
remind employees of our five key safety behaviors: 
Follow EHS rules even if  
you are in a hurry
Intervene immediately if somebody is taking risks or deviating from EHS rules
Report EHS hazards to prevent injury
Search out EHS risks  
before any changed or  
non ‑r
outine activity
Take EHS as your first priority
Every year, we take time to remind our people about the importance of safety through our EHS FIRST  
Day. In 2014, this event engaged thousands of Constellium employees. The theme this year was behavior as the key driver to improving safety. Our Chief Executive Officer Pierre Vareille voiced his concern at Constellium’s current safety performance and invited all employees to “make safety an everyday priority”. In addition, many sites organized activities to improve EHS performance. For example, we carried out emergency procedure tests in Dahenfeld, Decin, Paris, Levice, Carquefou and Neuf
‑
Br
isach and health workshops 
in Ravenswood, Crailsheim and Landau. Contractors participated in these events alongside Constellium employees and generated suggestions for safety improvement during work sessions.
Strengthening stakeholder 
interaction
Contractors, suppliers and visitors to 
our sites are expected to comply with the same high EHS requirements as employees. Each person receives a plant
‑s
pecific orientation and is fully 
supervised throughout their visit. Each person entering a Constellium managed area is included in the Constellium Injury Record Keeping System.For more information on  
THANK YOU AWARDS see page 54
THANK YOU AWARDS to the Working @ Height team
Annual EHS FIRST  day at the Gottmadingen plantBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 201454
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 55
Promising results
In 2014, participation in the survey 
reached 75%, in line with our target. Promisingly, our employee satisfaction metric has increased by 2%, but this was not sufficient to reach the six
‑p
oint improvement we 
had targeted for 2014. 
We have made good progress in 
several areas. The results show that our people have a better understanding of the vision and strategy of the Company, and they are more confident that our Senior Managers and leaders can execute this strategy and make the right decisions promptly. Furthermore, our people increasingly adhere to our goals and objectives, have a better understanding of our values and greater belief in our products and services. They believe that Constellium is improving its customer focus and are more confident that they will be able to develop to their full potential. Concerning their job, they now have a better understanding of their roles and performance objectives, and their appreciation of immediate management has improved.
However, there remains 
significant room for improvement. As Constellium has moved from being a division of a large group to a fully independent company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the survey clearly showed the impact of change. Although our values are better understood, people have signaled that we need to do more in order to build a strong company culture in which they can fully engage. They also expressed concerns about how they are recognized in their daily activities. We have therefore developed a specific training program on giving and receiving feedback, as part of the Lean program. Finally, we must make further progress in encouraging our people to take more pride in product quality, and this was addressed through ‘Year of Quality’ campaign, which was implemented widely in 2014.
To improve our performance 
ahead of the 2016 survey, we are empowering each site to take accountability for improvement. In September 2014, each site presented the main drivers behind their highest scoring categories to senior management. Based on best practice sharing, all sites have set up relevant local action plans, with their achievements subject to quarterly reviews.
Furthermore, we exceeded our target 
of achieving a 50% improvement in employee suggestions by 2014. On average, each employee now provides eight suggestions every year, which are duly considered and treated as required.
8  
suggestions per employee every year
Recognition and reward
The THANK YOU AWARDS are one way in which we recognize the great work of our people during the year. This program celebrates individual employees and teams across the Company for their remarkable efforts and accomplishments, which combine to advance our collective ambition, goals and values.The Lean Team Development Fund was created earlier this year. Each Team Leader receives a sum of €1,000 to be used by operators to implement improvement ideas and generate team spirit. The teams are free to spend it as they wish, and since January 2014, the teams have used the funds to make several investments. For example, a production team at Nuits
‑S
aint ‑
G
eorges in France used its €1,000 
fund to capture benchmarks and share best practices by visiting the Crailsheim site in Germany. 
Promoting health and  
reducing stress
Promoting health and reducing stress underlines our commitment to all aspects of employee wellbeing. 
Over the last 12 months, our teams in 
Germany carried out important work to help people return to Constellium following absence. Also in Germany, we launched an extensive health campaign at our Singen, Gottmadingen and Dahenfeld plants, focused on five key elements: 
• 
 s
tress management, including 
stress analysis through a heart 
scan, together with seminars on how to reduce stress and how leaders can encourage health;
• 
 p
romoting physical activity, 
through eight ‑
week circuit 
training programs;
• 
 e
rgonomics, including a 
physiotherapy consultation and expert personal advice;
• 
 n
utrition, based on improving 
nutrition by promoting balanced menus in our canteens; and
• 
 v
accination, including 
influenza vaccinations.Work related stress can affect employees in every organization. At our Issoire and C
‑T
EC 
locations we have implemented a multidisciplinary approach to this complex issue. Working with employees, unions, management and health experts, we have launched several initiatives, including:
• 
 us
ing an employee survey to 
identify the main causes and 
consequences of stress. More than 1,200 employees have participated at Issoire; 
• 
 c
reating a multidisciplinary pilot 
group that is helping us monitor  
our stress prevention initiatives;
• 
 r
eviewing stress indicators 
quarterly to identify and address key situations. At C
‑T
EC, for 
example, we have identified 10 indicators while at Issoire we have created a 34
‑p
oint action plan 
which will be deployed by the end of 2015;
• 
 l
aunching a training and awareness 
program for managers and employees. 80% of employees at C
‑T
EC and 100% of Issoire 
managers have been trained to date; and
• 
 c
reating a “preventer network”, 
trained to listen, alert and advise on work related stress. We have 15 preventers at C
‑T
EC and 25 
at Issoire. 
Training and empowerment
At Constellium, we know that training and empowerment not only ensure that we meet our business objectives but also that our people fulfill their own personal potential.
As part of our Lean leadership 
program, over 3,500 operators each received two hours of training on feedback and the 5 Whys methodology. STAR feedback is a pragmatic tool that improves performance by giving feedback through a simple method: identify the Situation, the Task, the Action and the Result. The 5 Whys methodology tackles root causes, questioning why something has happened and analyzing how improvements could make a difference to the outcome.
Because our people understand 
where and how we can improve, we set a Lean target of half of all employees making a suggestion each month. During 2014, we exceeded that target, with 58% of employees giving us the benefit of their experience and knowledge. The aim is to analyze most suggestions within 24 hours and to implement them as soon as possible. 
At the same time, we have continued 
to deliver training programs to Front Line Managers, this year focusing on adaptive leadership sessions which aim to enhance leadership and communication skills. In 2015, managers will receive training on conflict resolution. 
In addition, we developed an 
Emerging Leaders program in 2014, with 20 selected employees being coached on a week
‑
long 
residential course in Germany, and also provided with mentoring for 12 months. In addition to our corporate programs, each site provides safety, technical and personal development training to employees, in line with local needs. In return, each team was given a €1,000 development fund to spend in any way they chose (see ‘Recognition and reward’ on the opposite page for more information). 
Employee behavior is guided by our 
Code of Conduct and the year saw us again deliver e
‑t
raining modules and 
refresher courses.
Encouraging gender 
diversity
Currently, we manage diversity at 
a local level. The year saw a focus on recruiting more young women, specifically in production functions including Lean Manager, supervisor and operator roles. 
Government legislation in France 
also requires organizations to reach agreement with unions on gender equality. C
‑T
EC, our technology 
center, was the first Constellium facility to sign up to the agreement in 2012. Today, women account for 30% of employed staff in C
‑T
EC.Supporting our people
continued
Supporting 
sporting excellence
Majid Jabbour, who works in our IT 
department, has been passionate about kayaking since the age of 14. Today, he is a member of the Kayak National Team of Morocco and was ranked 27
th worldwide in 2011, 
as well as third at the last African championship in 2013. Majid is now aiming for qualification for the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This year, he will participate in two World Cups, the World Championship in Milan, and several other international regattas. To help Majid maintain his training and preparations, we provide him with flexibility at work, as well as financial sponsorship for his equipment and training.
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201456
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 57
Looking ahead
Environment, health and safety
•  I ntegrate the Muscle Shoals 
plant in the US with the EHS 
organization and align it to Constellium standards. The integration program will include the introduction of proven Constellium initiatives such as a number of serious injury prevention programs as well as Leadership Safety Tours
• 
 Ro
ll out the Contained 
Hazards program, in line with the Lean phase 2 KPI, which encourages immediate action to identified risks
• 
 Re
duce the time taken by new 
employees, or those joining to complete their EHS introductory modules, from six months to four weeks
• 
 I
mplement the Business Unit 
(BU) President site visit program. Under this initiative, every BU President will visit each plant once a year, with the visit focused solely on EHS matters, as a demonstration of EHS FIRST  
in action 
• 
 S
tandardize our environmental 
risk assessment methods
• 
 P
articipate in the 2015 biennial 
European Aluminium safety workshop, building on our success at the 2013 workshop where we took the top three places, out of 39 entrants. This event facilitates the sharing of best practice to further improve our industry safety performance
•
  
 P
roduce two new safety videos: 
Safe Behavior at Machines and Contractor Management to encourage the adoption of safety behavior in the workplace•  C arry out a site ‑b y‑s ite analysis 
of potential emergency situations, 
including chemical spills, and evaluate our capability to manage an emergency situation that has escalated into a crisis
Employee engagement
•  W ork to improve our engagement 
and satisfaction scores ahead of the next survey, scheduled for 2016. This includes implementation of action plans in all sites, and several organization development initiatives in the Aerospace and Transportation unit in order to address the identified weaknesses
• 
 E
ncourage every site to lead 
community activities and share best practice with other sites
Training and empowerment
•  L aunch the Constellium 
University, a formal onboarding program aimed at new managers
• 
 I
mplement Conflict Management 
training for Front Line Managers and presentation skills for manufacturing support functions
• 
 C
ontinue to encourage employees 
to suggest areas for improvement, through the Lean training program
• 
 L
aunch AIRWARE® school, which 
aims to develop technical training on AIRWARE
®
•  E nable open enrollment in 
leadership program
• 
 D
evelop Lean program 
and functional training for support functions
• 
 A
ctivate a central Human 
Resource Information System (HRIS)Restoring a 
hamlet, building  
a team
During 2014, a team of new 
apprentices from our site at Valais in Switzerland spent a week restoring the culturally important hamlet of Chiessio in the Alps. Supervised by professionals, they carried out various tasks including building lime walls, installing doors and water pipes, repairing roofs and cutting wood.
The purpose of the project was 
not only to rebuild the hamlet and the access paths in order to support tourism – but also to build a team among the apprentices, who slept on
‑s
ite 
and shared cooking and cleaning responsibilities at the camp.
Supporting our people
continued
The agreement at C ‑T
EC included 
10 action points that will enable 
us to: increase diversity during recruitment; support the promotion of women; ensure salaries are paid fairly, independent of gender and improve the balance between work and home life. 
Following the agreement, we have 
already made good progress on a number of issues. These include ensuring equality in promotion opportunities for men and women and providing individual coaching to support the promotion of women. In addition, 25% of women and 11% men have seen their salaries adjusted. Constellium has also partnered with other local companies to facilitate nursery access in case of emergencies related to employees’ children. Finally, we permit some flexibility to part
‑t
ime employees, and we 
allow them to work from home in case of specific situations with the agreement of their manager. 
Supporting communities 
We rely on local communities to 
provide people with the skills, commitment and experience that we need to maintain our competitive edge. So we are keen to play an active part in supporting those communities wherever and whenever possible.
Each plant adapts its initiatives to 
its own local environment, rather than merely adopting a company
‑
w
ide approach.
Every site was involved in valuable community work during the year, from health and sport initiatives at Issoire, Montreuil
‑J
uigné 
and Carquefou in France and Gottmadingen, Dahenfeld and Singen in Germany to educational projects at Valais in Switzerland. At Neuf
‑B
risach in France, we 
organized a day when youngsters could find out about their parents’ jobs and also held several student visitor days. At Decin in the Czech Republic, initiatives included an award presented to the best high school student. We also supported environmental schemes at C
‑T
EC, 
Paris and Zurich, made financial donations at Ravenswood and Van Buren for the Toys “R” Us foundation and restored an ancient building at Valais (see ‘Restoring a hamlet, building a team’ opposite). In addition, many of our facilities regularly organize Open House days where families, friends and neighbors can visit the site to see our work at close quarters. During 2014, we held these events at Levice in Slovakia, and Carquefou in France, as well as at our joint
‑v
enture at 
Changchun, China.
Fueling our future 
The young people of today are the 
future of Constellium. We work hard to ensure that they have the skills they need to succeed, with a primary focus on apprenticeships.
During 2014, we increased the 
number of apprentices by 29% over 2013. We have doubled our intake of apprentices at Neuf
‑B
risach and 
Issoire in France. At Neuf ‑B
risach, 
for example, we launched a new vocational training program to help 59 young people, including 20 women, become production line operators. 
At Singen in Germany, over 100 
apprentices and students take part in a three
‑
and ‑
a‑h
alf‑y
ear program 
at our Industrial Training Center. The program covers the different disciplines that the site depends on, including mechatronics, mechanics, process mechanics, materials testing and mechanical engineering. Singen also delivers training for a wide range of other roles such as sales, marketing and human resources. Each year, more than 20 apprentices graduate and take their places on the Singen shop floor or in our offices.
The Singen approach, where public 
education resources are integrated into our facilities, is a training model that we believe offers great opportunities. We work closely with local schools at Singen and deliver the majority of the training within the site, ensuring that apprentices gain practical knowledge of the working environment. This integrated approach, which is well
‑established in Germany and at 
Valais in Switzerland, is now being rolled out to other Constellium sites, particularly in France.
Towards the end of 2014, our Chief 
Executive Officer Pierre Vareille, as well as Executive Committee members Marc Boone and Laurent Musy, met a number of apprentices at Singen. 
Preparing the workforce of tomorrow – apprentices at the Neuf ‑B risach plant
Apprentices at camp in Valais
LabourBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 201459
Materiality coverage 
•  I mprove energy efficiency 
of operations
• 
 C
ontrol and reduce our 
greenhouse gas emissions
• 
 P
revent pollution 
from operations
• 
 Re
duce waste from operations
Targets 
•  1 0% decrease in energy 
consumption per processed 
unit by 2015 (2010 baseline)
• 
 A
ll five major European 
sites achieving ISO 50001 certification by 2015
•
 7
5% total landfill reduction by 
2020 (2010 baseline)
Performance 
•  I mproved energy consumption 
per processed unit by 10% ahead of 2015 target date
• 
 A
chieved ISO 50001 
certification at Decin. Neuf ‑
B
risach, Issoire and Valais 
are all expected to follow suit during 2015
• 
 Re
duced landfill waste in 2014 
by around 1,212 metric tons (mainly due to change in non
‑
r
ecurrent activities), but we 
still need to make significant improvements regarding our recurrent activitiesImproving the energy 
efficiency of our operations
With its properties of lightness with 
strength and infinite recyclability, aluminium has clear advantages in terms of energy efficiency.
Although the initial process 
to manufacture aluminium is necessarily energy intensive, aluminium products such as cars and airplanes enable greater energy efficiency during usage, while recycling requires only moderate energy consumption. 
We address the challenge of 
energy efficiency by developing and supporting improved recycling (see ‘Recycling’ on pages 47–49), by increasing the performance of our products and by working on the energy efficiency of our own operations, which in turn improves the performance of end products (see ‘Products’ on page 43).
Improving efficiency by 10%
Even though our energy consumption makes only a minor contribution to the lifetime energy used by an aluminium product, we remain committed to becoming more energy efficient. Our target was to improve efficiency by 10% by 2015, from a 2010 baseline, and we are pleased to report that we have achieved this target in 2014.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
1.00 0.96 0.93 0.93 0.90We calculate our energy efficiency by using an ‘energy consumption to produced ton’ ratio, which is then modified by a product mix factor. This is because although more complex products deliver greater environmental benefits during use, they also require more energy to manufacture. We introduced Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) specifically to ensure that the energy efficiency benefits during usage are taken into account when discussing the extra energy consumed during production (see ‘Life Cycle Assessment’ on page 45).
Our improved performance in 2014 
was driven by several factors, including enhanced metal recovery processes, which provide more metal output for the same energy input. In addition, we invested in new and more efficient production tools as well as ancillary equipment such as boilers and lighting. We also revitalized our energy network during 2014, to improve how we share best practice across Constellium.
ISO 50001 certification
Our target is that all our major European sites will be certified under the ISO 50001 energy management scheme by the end of 2015. These  
sites account for over 60% of our energy consumption.
10%  
decrease in energy  
consumption per processed unit
ISO 50001 
Certification achieved at Decin. Neuf
‑B
risach. Issoire and Valais 
are all expected to follow suit during 2015 Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 58
Making our operations more efficient 
Maintaining efficient operations is fundamental to strong 
long ‑t
erm performance. It saves costs, reduces our direct 
environmental impacts, and can even improve the speed at which we get products to market. 2014 was another strong year, particularly in the areas of resource and energy efficiency.
EnvironmentBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 201460
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 61
Making our operations more efficient
continued
Reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions (GHG)
In common with all progressive 
industrial companies, we are committed to reducing our impact on the environment by cutting GHG emissions wherever possible. 
However, this is a complex issue 
for the aluminium industry. In order to ensure understanding of the true impact of our operations, we need to encourage a holistic view. Specifically, we wish to raise awareness of GHGs throughout the entire life
‑c
ycle of aluminium 
products, not only during manufacturing processes.
We acknowledge that the 
manufacturing processes that create aluminium are indeed energy intensive. LCA studies consistently show that reducing GHG emissions over the full life
‑c
ycle depends on 
two factors: being able to deliver high
‑p
erformance products, which 
require less material and reduce energy consumption during usage; and further improving end
‑o
f‑li
fe 
recycling rates.
For instance, although the 
manufacture of aluminium parts for cars initially produces relatively high levels of GHGs, the lighter weight of these parts has a dramatic effect on the energy efficiency – and therefore the GHG emissions – of the car during its lifetime. Furthermore, aluminium can be infinitely recycled through processes that require significantly less energy than the original manufacturing processes (see ‘Recycling’ on page 47). This means that when the car has reached the end of its useful life, the aluminium can be transformed into new products extremely efficiently.What does this mean for Constellium? Firstly, we are continuing to work hard to cut GHGs through initiatives such as improvements on our production lines and by making sure we use as little material as possible. Secondly – and this will ultimately lead to a far greater understanding of aluminium’s role in GHG emissions – we are keen to report our performance under Scopes 1, 2 and 3
1, and are preparing to do 
so in the near future. Now favored by many regulators and proposed to be used as the basis for new legislation, reporting under Scope 3 will provide a clearer picture of our GHG emissions because it will take into account factors other than our manufacturing processes, including the life
‑c
ycle benefits of aluminium 
and recycling. 
In 2014, our Scopes 1 and 2 
emissions increased by 1.6% to 755kt CO
2 eq., in line with our 
increased energy consumption. The principal contribution to this increase is the increased production of automotive parts in our Van Buren facility and the recycling operation in Decin associated with our new furnace (see page 48). Although recycling helps reduce the overall GHG emissions (through Scope 3), it comes at the cost of local higher emissions for Scopes 1 and 2.
Preventing pollution on-site
Pollution prevention is overseen by  
a dedicated organization supported  
by commitment at all levels of our workforce. 
Pollution is a material risk at all 
production sites. In two of our sites, there are significant risks being posed by soil contaminated by chlorinated solvents during previous operations, which could have an adverse impact on water quality. These require constant monitoring, and we have decontamination treatment underway. In addition, other risks relate to our use of chemical compounds, notably fuel, lubricants, raw materials for coatings and surface treatment. The potentially significant impacts are pollution of soil, groundwater or river courses.
We have rigorous internal directives 
in place regarding issues including spill containment, underground tank storage and soil and groundwater monitoring. These cover all key aspects of environmental protection, and these are complemented by written guidelines. We have now added new guidelines to the directive on emergency preparedness and crisis management. These include improved emergency procedures, particularly where the situation demands external support. The new guidelines will be rolled out across all Constellium production sites in 2015.
Our EHS Managers meet and 
share best practice twice a year, under the umbrella of the EHS network. An internal mandatory auditing program verifies that we are following the directives and implementing the correct procedures at all times. In addition, during 2014 we introduced an external audit in one pilot site to evaluate our performance, and we have decided to roll
‑o
ut this audit in 
2015 and forward, towards covering all our sites. Each plant also carries out an annual drill to optimize the performance of our people and processes in the event of a pollution or emergency incident and during the year we also implemented a full
‑s
cale emergency response drill 
(see ‘Ensuring the right response’ on page 62).Taking a total 
approach to energy efficiency
Improving energy efficiency is one 
of our key objectives, and during 2014 we again launched, extended and rolled out a wide range of energy
‑s
aving initiatives. 
For example, we optimized heating systems and boilers at several sites, including the introduction of energy recovery systems at Decin in the Czech Republic and Burg in Germany, and installed a new pusher furnace at Neuf‑Brisach in France which has led to around 7% improvement in energy consumption. 
In addition, we invested in new 
motor drives at our rolling mills at Issoire in France and Ravenswood in the US. Ravenswood also achieved efficiencies through a new LED lighting project, following on from the success of similar projects at Singen in Germany in 2012 and Issoire in 2013.  In fact the LEDs, which save energy and also improve safety and working conditions because of their added brightness, now account for 80% of Ravenswood’s lighting.
Ravenswood provides an instructive 
example of how a number of separate improvements combined to have a major impact on total energy efficiency during 2014. Together, the new motor drive and LED lighting have reduced electricity consumption by almost 20,000 MWh. At the same time, we have increased production capacity at the site by optimizing metal composition and processing, and balancing the upstream and downstream heat treatments to reduce natural gas consumption per ton by 4%.
Working together
Our strategy is not only to share best practice and collaborate with colleagues but also with our suppliers, building long‑term relationships that deliver mutual benefits.In our 2012 sustainability report, we highlighted a project where we worked with our oxygen and gas supplier Linde to reduce energy consumption and CO
2 
emissions. In 2014, we continued that collaboration by fitting new oxy
‑f
uel technology to one rotary 
furnace at our Neuf ‑B
risach 
plant. Early results show energy consumption falling by 50% and the melting rate increasing by 20%. This is part of a joint development agreement between our companies which will see the remaining furnaces at Neuf
‑B
risach 
converted by the end of 2016.
 “ T
his project is very significant 
for Linde in terms of our 
commitment to technological progress as a sustainable solutions provider. We welcome this joint development with Constellium as it will advance the development of the oxy-fuel process, save energy and increase efficiency for fully ramped-up plants.”
Thomas Niehoff
Head of Non ‑F
errous and Mining at Linde
Energy efficient LED lighting at the Ravenswood plantOxy‑f
uel combustion technology 
at the Neuf ‑B risach plant
1.  S cope 1 emissions are direct emissions 
from owned or controlled sources.
 
 S
cope 2 emissions are indirect emissions 
from the generation of purchased energy.
 
 S
cope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions 
(not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions.Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201462
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 63
Above:  Cast house at Issoire.Making our operations more efficient
continued
We have not received a fine for 
environmental issues for a decade, and this again applied in 2014. Our risk prevention processes and compliance with regulations are recognized by ISO 14001 certification, which states that sites must prevent pollution. In addition, our sites have to fulfill legal requirements, meet the requirements of insurers or insurance and follow our own internal directives and guidelines. All our fully
‑o
wned industrial sites are now 
certified to ISO 14001. We also adopt a systematic approach to identify potential ongoing cases of non
‑
c
ompliance, and this is additionally 
reviewed by the Executive Committee of Constellium. Although we have the highest standards supported by commitment at all levels of our workforce, we will never be complacent. 
Reducing waste from our 
operations
Aluminium is a highly recyclable 
product. However, the manufacturing process produces waste products – such as salt slag, filtration dust and sludge from wastewater treatment. We aim to reduce these waste products wherever practicable.
We have an ambitious target to 
reduce the waste we send to landfill by 75% by 2020, against a 2010 baseline. This will require a reduction of around 8,000 metric tons per year. 
To meet this ambitious target, 
we are developing solutions to help us recycle waste that goes to landfill that is not currently widely classified as recyclable. The solution must be technically feasible and economically viable in order for it to be implemented. 
In 2014, a solution was found to 
recycle 300 tons of municipal waste which is produced annually at our Issoire plant in France but which was previously incinerated. We also conducted trials on recycling filtration dust alongside salt slag during the year, and continued our work towards reducing waste sent to landfill.
Although we aim to go beyond 
legislative requirements at all our plants, the program to reduce waste is complicated by the different legislative environments that govern our plants worldwide. A more rigorous regime in Europe has led to the development of more facilities for recycling, and therefore more opportunities for us to reduce waste sent to landfill. 
In the US, where there are fewer 
cost
‑e
ffective recycling solutions, 
our acquisition of Wise Metals has had the effect of making our target more challenging. In order to rise to this challenge, we will engage with partners to deliver common solutions to waste recycling.Ensuring the 
right response
We work hard to minimize the 
likelihood of on ‑s
ite pollution 
incidents, and as a responsible organization, have plans in place to protect employees, the community and the site in the event of an incident. There is no substitute for first
‑h
and experience, which 
is why in 2014 we carried out a full
‑s
cale emergency response 
and crisis management drill at our Neuf
‑B
risach plant in France. 
This involved 50 of our people, including our own on
‑s
ite fire 
brigade, working alongside the external emergency and rescue services as well as local authorities. The scenario at Neuf
‑B
risach was a 
fire on a lacquering line, followed by an explosion in a furnace that led to chemical leaks and major injuries. We selected this scenario because it could lead to the greatest potential impact and required the intervention of a number of specialist teams. We deployed the Emergency Response Plan, which mobilized our teams on
‑s
ite and 
guided how we worked with the external rescue services, with all actions managed from a dedicated crisis management center. 
The drill highlighted the robustness 
of our plans and demonstrated excellent cooperation between the internal and external teams. It also endorsed the ability of the crisis management team to support their colleagues in the field, and to handle all aspects of communication. Following the drill, we discussed the challenges of such a large
‑s
cale incident with 
the external emergency rescue services and shared thoughts on how our response could be improved. These included the need to provide additional training to members of the crisis management team in order to give them a greater understanding of their personal roles.Looking ahead 
•  F urther improve energy 
efficiency by rolling out new practices such as upgrading to oxy
‑f
uel burner 
the rotary furnaces, at our Neuf‑Brisach plant
• 
 R
oll out ISO 50001 certification 
to three major plants: Issoire, Neuf
‑
Brisach and Valais
• 
 D
efine a new set of operational 
targets, notably in the area of energy efficiency and reducing GHG emissions
• 
 D
eploy a new employee guide 
for emergency situations based on 2014 drills and learning throughout the year
• 
 I
ntegrate the Muscle Shoals 
plants in Alabama. This will involve preparing the plants to meet ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification, sharing best practice and ensuring the plants meet Constellium policy
• 
 E
ndorse the future Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative (ASI) standard (see page 40 for more information)
• 
 F
urther engage in reducing the 
amount of waste sent to landfill, despite challenging targets
Crisis preparation emergency drill
Casthouse at the Issoire plant
Sorting of production waste at 
one of our sitesBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 201465
 Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 64
Doing business responsibly
Promoting and enforcing 
ethical business practices
We view compliance as an 
opportunity to add value and mitigate risk. The way that our employees conduct themselves is key to managing this risk.
Promoting and enforcing ethical 
business practices through our Code of Conduct helps us to embed appropriate behaviors across our business and our supply chain. 
Updating our Code of Conduct 
We regularly review and update our Code of Conduct which lays down strict guidelines on the behaviors we expect from all our people, on all sites (see page 77 for details on Code of Conduct Training programs).
No conflict minerals
With the launch of the Dodd ‑F rank 
Act in the US, it is now a legal requirement for manufacturing companies to provide information relating to where they source some specific raw materials. This call for increased transparency aims to control the use of minerals such as gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten obtained from conflict zones – such as the eastern provinces of the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries. 
In 2014, we were contacted by over 
60 customers to provide information about the use of conflict minerals in the production process. In line with companies registered on the New York Stock Exchange, we filed a disclosure document with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in May 2014, which can be found on our website. The results were based on an investigation which involved tracing materials down the supply chain to the smelting phase of production. 
By engaging with our suppliers, 
we were able to determine that none of the minerals used in our products originated from conflict zones during the previous year. We also set up a dedicated team to answer any specific questions relating to our use of minerals during production. 
This process will continue in the 
future, so that we are able to provide answers to our stakeholders on an ongoing basis.
Engaging suppliers in 
sustainability performance
At Constellium, sustainability does 
not just mean ensuring that our own social, environmental and ethical standards are in place. It also means making sure our values are reflected across the supply chain. 
Our comprehensive and company
‑
w
ide sustainable supply chain 
policy outlines the behaviors 
we expect from our suppliers, including social and environmental behaviors. In 2014, we assessed the sustainability performance of our key metal and energy suppliers, as well as those suppliers identified as posing greater risk to our business, primarily due to their location. We launched a pilot program with 10 suppliers to identify the risks and opportunities of our engagement with them. We are currently analyzing the results before deciding how to progress. 
Aligned with the UNGC, our supply 
chain policy is a proven way of encouraging meaningful dialog with our stakeholders. It also supports our target of ensuring that all key suppliers adhere to UNGC principles by 2015. Unfortunately, despite engaging closely with our key suppliers to encourage them to become signatories, the process is taking longer than expected, as it requires companies to evaluate and sometimes realign their strategy and compliance models. To date, nine of our 16 key suppliers are signatories to UNGC.Materiality coverage 
•  P romoting and enforcing ethical 
business practices
• 
 E
ngaging suppliers in 
sustainability performance
• 
 I
ncreasing economic 
performance (see pages 2, 10 and 70)
Targets 
•  1 00% of key suppliers joining 
the UNGC by 2015
Performance
•  W e provided 60 customers with 
information relating to the use of conflict minerals
• 
 1
0 suppliers had their 
sustainability performance assessed through a new pilot program
• 
 A
round half of our key suppliers 
are signatories to UNGC by 2014We are committed to transparency and improving the 
sustainability of our sector. Our approach is underpinned by the principles of fairness, responsibility and due
‑d
iligence 
and is maintained through strong relationships that adhere to applicable regulations. We endorse the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles and actively work towards encouraging our suppliers to become fellow signatories.Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201466
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 67
Doing business responsibly
continued
Oddo Metals: 
Paving the way
Our long ‑t erm partnership with 
supplier Oddo Metals went from strength to strength in 2014. Oddo has made it a priority to support our sustainability agenda and has taken steps to align its practices with our policy. By adhering to our standards, Oddo has embedded a number of sustainability principles in the way it works, including:
• 
 a
dhering to the United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC) 
principles;
• 
 b
eing evaluated on sustainability 
processes and practices by an external and independent assessment company; and
• 
 e
stablishing a Code of Conduct at 
the locations of its own suppliers.  “ A
t Oddo, we have immediately 
understood and given full support to Constellium’s sustainable supply chain strategy.”
Antoine Chacun
Managing Director, Oddo Metals
 “ W e have been very pleased to have 
Oddo supporting us from the very beginning of our efforts towards a more sustainable supply chain, and we look forward to all our suppliers following suit.”
Christian Keidel
Group Director, Strategic Purchasing, Metal and Energy Procurement, Constellium
As well as our supply chain policy, we 
also have a dedicated Supplier Code of Conduct in place. The Code meets all pillars of the UNGC principles and we are currently in the process of ensuring that it is signed up to by all our suppliers. The Supplier Code of Conduct applies to all suppliers, subsidiaries, consultants, contractors and affiliates of Constellium. A copy can be found on our website.
As an active member of the 
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), this standard is one of the focal points of our dialog with the industry and with our suppliers. We intend to comply with the standard, with our key target being to involve our aluminium suppliers and to encourage them to be compliant. 
The essence of the ASI standard is 
that it enables transparency, not only regarding the sustainability of our suppliers, but also of the entire value chain. Moreover, the Chain of Custody will ensure that the metal we buy has been certified. This serves as an important step towards fulfilling our commitment towards supplier sustainability. We look forward to welcoming more members into this project and to all participants across the value chain becoming ASI certified, which forms an integral aspect of our approach to our supply chain (see page 40 for information about our work with the ASI).Our ability to be a safe and responsible corporate citizen also depends in part on the capability and performance of those who help us carry out our operations (see ‘Strengthening stakeholder interaction’ on page 52 for more information). 
Looking ahead 
•  E ncourage our suppliers to 
sign up to the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) 
• 
 Ro
ll out our company ‑w
ide 
Supply Chain policy
Team at Oddo Metals
Using train to transport metal supply, be it metal slabs or used beverage cans, to be recycled
Anti ‑c orruptionBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 201469
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 68
Managing sustainability
Our Sustainability Council was 
formed in 2012, to provide a formal 
body to develop and implement our 
sustainability goals and practices. 
It includes representatives from 
every aspect of our business, 
because sustainability is a collective 
agenda. We believe it is important for 
each department to have a voice and 
be able to share its perspective.
The council defines and updates our 
sustainability policy and links it with 
the overall Constellium corporate 
strategy. As part of this, council 
members discuss feedback and any 
sustainability projects proposed 
by key stakeholders, including 
customers, suppliers and NGOs. 
The team is responsible for agreeing 
on key environmental and social 
objectives, targets and indicators, 
and tracking our performance against them. In addition, the 
council’s role is to ensure accurate 
disclosure of sustainability data, 
together with alignment to Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 
amongst others (see ‘Memberships’ 
on page 77).
The Sustainability Council meets 
on a regular basis four times a 
year. One of these events is a 
special meeting with the Executive 
Committee of Constellium where 
members recap actions and decide 
the key priorities for the years ahead. The key discussions and outcomes 
from the 2014 meetings included:
• 
 2
014 results versus objectives of 
the roadmap;
• 
 l
aunch of specific actions: 
materiality assessment, LCAs of 
key products; and
• definition of new objectives.
Members
 Laurent Musy  
President, Aerospace 
and Transportation  
Chairman, Sustainability Council
Catherine Athènes  
Sustainability Council Leader 
Director, Marketing, Packaging and 
Automotive Rolled Products 
Olivier Néel  
Sustainability Manager 
Laura Berneri  
Director, External Communications
Volker Brockhagen  
Director, Group EHS (Environment,  
Health and Safety) Béatrice Charon  
Vice President, Business Planning
Frédéric Dunod  
Director, External Reporting
Sophia Elasri  
Manager, Strategic Purchasing 
Energy Procurement
Rovertos Gross  
Director, Strategy, Automotive 
Structures and IndustryCarole Michalland  
Human Resource Consultant
Guy-Michel Raynaud  
Director, TechnologyDidier Vasner  
Group Environment Manager
“ O ur council has moved from 
an informal group of engaged 
executives to an established 
committee of managers. 
They represent all business units 
and functions at high levels, and 
beyond their genuine interest 
in this subject, they bring the 
right expertise and momentum 
for Constellium to improve. 
Areas for improvement include 
better representation of our US 
activities and accelerating our 
sustainability projects.”
Béatrice Charon
Vice President, Business Planning
“ I j oined the Council recently 
representing the ‘Automotive 
Structures and Industry’ 
business unit and I truly 
appreciate the work that is being 
done and the commitment of 
participants. As a newcomer to 
Constellium, it is also interesting 
to gain a global view of the 
company through its approach 
to sustainability.”
Rovertos Gross
Director, Strategy, Automotive Structures 
and IndustryAbove:  (from left) Rovertos Gross, Béatrice Charon, Olivier Néel, Catherine Athènes, Laurent Musy, Didier Vasner, Frédéric Dunod
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 69
Performance  
in detailIn this section: 
Consolidated income statement 70
Consolidated statement of financial position 71
Consolidated statement of cash flows 72
Share information 73
Sustainability data 74
Memberships 77
GRI G4 disclosure index 78
Forward-looking statements 81 Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201470
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 71
Consolidated income statement
(in millions of Euros)Year ended  
December 31, 2014Year ended  
December 31, 2013Year ended
December 31, 2012
Revenues 3,666 3,495 3,610
Cost of sales (3,183) (3,024) (3,136)
Gross profit 483 471 474
Selling and administrative expenses (200) (210) (212)
Research and development expenses (38) (36) (36)
Restructuring costs (12) (8) (25)
Other (losses)/gains – net (83) (8) 62
Income from operations 150 209 263
Other expenses – (27) (3)
Finance income 30 17 4
Finance costs (88) (67) (64)
Finance costs – net (58) (50) (60)
Share of (loss)/profit of joint-ventures (1) 3 (5)
Income before income tax 91 135 195
Income tax expense (37) (39) (46)
Net income from continuing operations 54 96 149
Discontinued operations
Net income/(loss) from discontinued operations – 4 (8)
Net income for the period 54 100 141
Net income attributable to:Owners of the Company 51 98 139
Non-controlling interests 3 2 2
Net income 54 100 141 Consolidated statement of financial position
(in millions of Euros)At December 31,  
2014At December 31,
2013
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets (including goodwill) 28 21
Property, plant and equipment 632 408
Investments in joint-ventures 21 1
Deferred income tax assets 190 177
Trade receivables and other 48 60
Other financial assets 33 7
952 674
Current assets
Inventories 432 328
Trade receivables and other 568 483
Other financial assets 57 25
Cash and cash equivalents 989 233
2,046 1,069
Assets classified as held for sale 14 21
Total assets 3,012 1,764
Equity
Share capital 2 2
Share premium 162 162
Retained deficit and other reserves (207) (132)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company (43) 32
Non-controlling interests 6 4
(37) 36
LiabilitiesNon-current liabilities
Borrowings 1,205 326
Trade payables and other 31 35
Deferred income tax liabilities – 1
Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 654 507
Other financial liabilities 40 36
Provisions 61 65
1,991 970
Current liabilities
Borrowings 47 22
Trade payables and other 872 646
Income taxes payable 11 19
Other financial liabilities 71 24
Provisions 49 38
1,050 749
Liabilities classified as held for sale 8 9
Total liabilities 3,049 1,728
Total equity and liabilities 3,012 1,764 Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201472
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 73
Consolidated statement of cash flows
(in millions of Euros)Year ended  
December 31, 2014Year ended  
December 31, 2013Year ended  
December 31, 2012
Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 
Net income from continuing operations 54 96 149
Adjustments 241 133 81
Changes in working capital:
Inventories (95) 41 35
Trade receivables (48) 9 26
Margin calls 11 4 7
Trade payables 170 (1) 20
Other working capital (33) (9) 27
Changes in other operating assets and liabilities:
Provisions (12) (17) (31)
Income tax paid (27) (29) (28)
Pension liabilities and other post-employment benefit obligations (49) (43) (40)
Net cash flows from operating activities 212 184 246
Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment (199) (144) (126)
Proceeds from disposals, including joint-venture (2) 7 –
Investment in joint-venture (19) – –
Proceeds from finance lease 6 6 8
Other investing activities (2) (1) (13)
Net cash flows used in investing activities (216) (132) (131)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activitiesNet proceeds received from issuance of share – 162 –
Interim dividend paid – (147) –
Withholding tax reimbursed/(paid) 20 (20) –
Distribution of share premium to owners of the Company – (103) –
Interest paid (39) (36) (28)
Net cash flows used in factoring – – (49)
Proceeds received from Term Loan and Senior Notes 1,153 351 154
Repayment of Term Loan (331) (156) (148)
Proceeds of other loans 13 2 6
Payment of deferred financing costs (27) (8) (14)
Transactions with non-controlling interests (2) (2) –
Other financing activities (34) – (7)
Net cash flows from/(used in) financing activities 753 43 (86)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 749 95 29
Cash and cash equivalents – beginning of period 236 142 113
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 6 (1) –
Cash and cash equivalents – end of period 991 236 142
Less: Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale (2) (3) –
Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the Statement of Financial Position 989 233 142 Share information
Share price evolution In US$ (from May 16, 2014)
35
3025201510
05-16-2014
06-16-201407-16-2014
08-13-2014
09-16-201410-14-201411-14-201412-16-201401-16-201502-13-201503-16-201504-16-2015
05-14-2015
Average number of daily shares traded:
So far the average number of shares  
traded for Constellium since May 30, 2014 is
884,472  
sharesShareholding structure (as of December 31, 2014) 
12.23%
85.12%2.65%
ManagementBpifrancePublic 
shareholders Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201474
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 75
Sustainability data
GRI G4–10: Total workforce
ApprenticeInactive
restructuringInactive  
without pay Permanent Fixed-termTemporar y  
(agency, 
excluding
contractors)
All Constellium
Number of employees  
per specific employment typeMale 260 7 40 – – –
Female 57 6 21 – – –
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale – – – 7,671 499601Female – – – 872 106
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time 296 8 47 8,227 594 363
Part-time 21 5 14 316 11 238
Total full-time employees (permanent and fixed-term) 9,148
Total workforce 10,140
Europe
Number of employees  
per specific employment typeMale 260 7 20 – – –
Female 57 6 19 – – –
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale – – – 6,514 201601Female – – – 749 40
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time 296 8 25 6,947 237 363
Part-time 21 5 14 316 4 238
Total workforce 8,474
Asia
Number of employees  
per specific employment typeMale – – – – – –
Female – – – – – –
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale – – – 7 257–Female – – – 7 45
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time – – – 14 302 –
Part-time – – – – – –
Total workforce 316
North America
Number of employees  
per specific employment typeMale – – 20 – – –
Female – – 2 – – –
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale – – – 1,150 41–Female – – – 116 21
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time – – 22 1,266 55 –
Part-time – – – – 7 –
Total workforce 1,350
 Under 26Between 26 
and 45Between 46 
and 55 Above 56 Total
Europe
Number of new employees hired in 2014 Male 83 184 67 5 339
Female 8 52 8 3 71
Number of employees who left the Company in 2014 Male 29 92 30 108 259
Female – 32 7 15 54
Number of employees on December 31, 2014 Male 211 2,917 2,313 944 6,385
Female 23 406 226 101 756
Turnover rate Male 14% 3% 1% 11% 4%
Female – 8% 3% 15% 7%
North AmericaNumber of new employees hired in 2014 Male 35 146 38 19 238
Female 5 24 9 5 43
Number of employees who left the Company in 2014 Male 4 21 19 26 70
Female 1 10 5 3 19
Number of employees on December 31, 2014 Male 31 439 407 209 1,086
Female 2 41 25 15 83
Turnover rate Male 13% 5% 5% 12% 6%
Female 50% 24% 20% 20% 23%
Asia
Number of new employees hired in 2014 Male – 2 – – 2
Female – 5 – – 5
Number of employees who left the Company in 2014 Male – 1 – – 1
Female – 1 1 – 2
Number of employees on December 31, 2014 Male – 11 2 – 13
Female 1 11 2 – 14
Turnover rate Male – 9% – – 8%
Female – 9% 50% – 14%
GRI G4–LA1: Employee turnover  
Apprentices and fixed-term employees have not been included, for accuracy in turnover rate calculation
People Products
Beverage ca n recycling rate*
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 201275% target for 2015
43%46%48%58%63.1%66.7%69.5%
*This is the most recent data. Figures for this data-point consume long processing 
time and 2012 data was made available only in 2015. Since 2000, the beverage can 
recycling rate has seen tremendous improvement from 43% (in 2000) to 69.5% (in 2012).Recordabl e cas e rate *
*Recordable case rate is a ratio that measures the number of fatalities, serious 
injuries, lost time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments per one million hours worked.14
12
10
8
642
0
04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 1413.25
10.85
8.65
7.25
5.15
3.85 3.553.22.65 2.71 2.8
Sales from innovative products
2012 2013 201413% 14
12
10
8
6
42
04.5%9.3%Numbe r of s erious injurie s including fatalities
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 20146
47
27
57
68
3 3Key Performance Indicators:             Products             People             Operations             Responsible business
In this section (pages 74-77), we provide our 
performance across the four pillars of Constellium’s sustainability strategy: Products, People, Operations and Responsible Business.Throughout this section, the following symbols included in some charts help the reader identify our progress on those Key Performance Indicators where we disclose data. Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201476
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 77
Memberships
Memberships and associations Has positions in governanceParticipates in 
projects and 
committees
Aluminum Association (AA) Member Yes
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member and part of Standard Setting Group Yes
ARPAL, Spain Member No
Association Française de l’Aluminium (AFA) President, Béatrice Charon Yes
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No
Cercle de l’Industrie Member  No
Emballages et Bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM) Member  No
European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member Yes
European Aluminium (EA) Chairman, Pierre Vareille Yes
France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) Chairman, Laurent Musy  Yes
Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of Board, Laurent Musy Yes
Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques et Spatiales (GIFAS) Member  No
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) No No
International Aluminium Institute (IAI) Member Yes
La Boîte Boisson (BCME) Member Yes
Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch)  Member  No
Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes, emballages et bouchages 
Métalliques (SNFBM)Member  Yes
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No
Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of Board, Laurent Musy YesSustainability data
continued
Key Performance Indicators:             Products             People             Operations             Responsible business
Operations
 In kt CO 2 eq
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Scope 1 Scope 2416
278403
283414
287446
297446
307500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0Greenhouse gas emissions
Water consumption  In 106 m3
2010 2011 2012 2013 201430
25
20
15
10
5
0
Total water Ground water Surface water Water from public net
Production waste and handling  In metric tons
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014120,000
40,00060,00080,000100,000
20,000
0
Total 8,224 8,840 9,683 10,840 9,628
Recycling Incineration LandﬁllAir emissions  In metric tons
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014550
350400450500
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
NO X Particulate materials SO 2 VOCResponsible business
Code of Conduct Training
2013 2014
Number of people targeted Number of people achieved974935
96% 
achieved99.82% achieved1,118 1,116
Indirect energy consumption* (in TJ)
Source 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Electricity 3,982 4,111 4,071 4,089 4,007
Direct energy consumption* (in TJ)
Energy sources 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Anthracite 459 395 439 519 492
Liquefied  
Petroleum Gas10 10 10 11 13
Natural Gas 6,570 6,463 6,618 7,25 4 7 ,295
Diesel 115 112 109 114 113
Heavy fuel 188 190 168 187 182
Total 7,342 7,170 7,34 4 8,085 8,095
Total energy consumption (in TJ)
In TJ/year 10,890 10,810 10.936 11,677 11,815
    *This includes, in some cases, our own energy generation. Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201478
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 79
GRI G4 disclosure index
GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
STRATEGY AND ANALYSISG4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker  
of the organizationChief Executive Officer insights 10 –11
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
G4-3 Name of the organization Constellium 
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Business operational performance
Our main brands are: AIRWARE
®, SEALIUM®, ALUMOLD®, Surfalex®, Formalex®, Strongalex®, 
Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, LONGLINEFINISH®, BUTLERFINISH®, STAYBRIGHT®, 
KEIKORTM and GRIPSTERTM18–23
G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Amsterdam (Netherlands) Back Cover
G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Company organization 9
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the highest ethical standards and best 
practices, to answer to our shareholders and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide 
Code of Conduct. We are listed on NYSE and on Euronext under the ticker symbol “CSTM.” 
Shareholders as of December 31, 2014 – public shareholders 85.12%, Bpifrance 12.23%, and management 2.65%
G4-8 Markets served Company organization 9
G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Performance in detail 70-77
G4-10 Workforce characteristic Performance in detail 75
G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining 
agreementsApproximately 80% of our total headcount are represented by unions or equivalent bodies or are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements that are subject to periodic renegotiation. 
The vast majority of employees based in Europe and approximately 53% of U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Value we create 5
G4-13 Changes in organization’s size, structure, ownership 
or its supply chainAcquisition of Wise Metals in the US closing on January 5, 2015, disposal of Sabart facility in France, creation of the joint-venture with UACJ in Bowling Green, Kentucky, and closure 
of Kunshan facility in China
G4-14 Precautionary approach Our strategy
Governance12–14
28–29
G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or initiatives 
to which the organization subscribesMemberships 77
G4-16 Membership of associations or organizations Memberships
Stakeholder perspectives77 
39-41
IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17 Entities included in the organization reports Our materiality assessment 38
G4-18 Reporting principles for defining report content About the report IFC
G4-19 Process for defining content and aspect boundaries Our materiality assessment 37
G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Our materiality assessment 38
G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Our materiality assessment 38
G4-22 Restatements of information provided in earlier reports None
G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 
in scope and aspect boundariesAbout the report IFC
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Engaging with stakeholders 
Stakeholder perspectives30 
39–41
G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders to engage Our materiality assessment 36
G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement Engaging with stakeholders 30
G4-27 Key topics collected through stakeholder engagement Our materiality assessment 37
REPORT PROFILE
G4-28 Reporting period About the report IFC
G4-29 Date of the last report Issued in 2014 (Available on the sustainability page at www.constellium.com )
G4-30 Reporting cycle About the report IFC
G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report About the report IFC
G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI G4 disclosure index 78–80
G4-33 External assurance About the report IFC
GOVERNANCEG4-34 Governance structure Governance 28–29
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and 
norms of behaviorGovernance
Promoting and enforcing ethical business practices28–29
64–67
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
CATEGORY: ECONOMICDMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
INCREASE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCEMATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCEG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our strategy 12–14
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Performance in detail 70–73
G4-EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities for 
the organization’s activities due to climate changeDue to the uncertainty of the effects of climate change it is difficult to quantify its impact. Possible scenarios that could create financial risks for our business include availability of water, additional regulation to mitigate climate change, serious weather events causing damage to operations and supply chain, and climate warming/cooling trends in different regions positively or negatively affecting the sales of finished products in particular beverage cans. As a participant since 2013 in the EU ETS (European Union Emission Trading Scheme), changes to this system and a higher price of carbon could have an impact.
There are, however, opportunities from climate change and associated legislative changes. New technology and 
products which are lightweight and recyclable and are being used to lower fuel emissions in vehicles present an opportunity for aluminium, including, increased sales and opening of new markets as well as increasing aluminium share in existing markets, promotion of aluminium for new markets, providing innovative solution for customer needs, R&D investment, and expansion of manufacturing facilities. Opportunities from the EU ETS include being able to trade excess emissions certificates, which would provide an additional income, and no costs except those to reduce emissions to the required level to have excess certificates.
CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL
INCREASE RECYCLING ACTIVITIESMATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS*G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Recycling 47–49
G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 
input materialsRecycling 47
IMPROVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF OPERATIONS
MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGYG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Improving the energy efficiency of our operations 59, 60
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Performance in detail 76
G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Performance in detail 76
G4-EN5 Energy intensity Improving the energy efficiency of our operations  
At Constellium, ‘energy efficiency’ is the way we define ‘energy intensity’.59
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Improving the energy efficiency of our operations 59, 60
G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products 
and servicesDeveloping products with environmental benefits 45, 46
REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS
MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONSG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 61
G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Performance in detail 76
G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Performance in detail 76
G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 61
G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded in the reporting year
G4-EN21 NO
X, SO2, and other significant air emissions Performance in detail 76
REDUCE WASTE FROM OPERATIONSPREVENT POLLUTION FROM OPERATIONSMATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTEG4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Reducing waste from our operations  
Preventing pollution on-site63 
61
G4-EN22 Water discharge Performance in detail 76
G4-EN23 Waste disposal Performance in detail 76
G4-EN24 Significant spills No major spills recorded in the reporting year
DEVELOP PRODUCTS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITSMATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICESG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Developing products with environmental benefits 45
G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products 
and servicesLife Cycle Assessment (LCA) 45, 46We have achieved full disclosure against the general standard disclosures and specific standard disclosures listed below, and reported against the mining and mineral sector guidelines (which are marked with a *).
IFC stands for inside front cover Business  and sustainability   
performance report 201480
Business  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 81
GRI G4 disclosure index
continued
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL CONTINUED
DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
DEVELOP PRODUCTS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS CONTINUED
MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCEG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Promoting and enforcing ethical business practices 65-67
G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 
of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulationsNone recorded in the reporting year
ENGAGE SUPPLIERS IN SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITYG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engaging suppliers in sustainability performance 65–67
G4-EN32 Suppliers screened using environmental criteria No quantitative data available currently
Engaging suppliers in sustainability performance 65–67
CATEGORY: SOCIAL
SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
IMPROVE EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION
MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENTG4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Improving employee satisfaction 53, 54
G4-L A1 Number and rates of new employee hires and 
employee turnoverPerformance in detail 75
G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employeesPart-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; temporary workers are not eligible for the same benefits. Some select benefits related to health insurance are granted depending on seniority.
MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Strengthening stakeholder interaction 52, 53
G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding  
operational changesThe minimum notice period changes depending on the country of operation  
and is based on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question.
G4-MM4* Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one  
week’s durationNone recorded in the reporting year
ENSURE SAFETY AT WORKREDUCE PSYCHO-SOCIAL RISKSREDUCE USE OF HARMFUL SUBSTANCESMATERIAL ASPECT: SAFETYG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ensuring safety at work 51, 52
G4-LA5 Workforce represented in health and safety committees 100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and safety committees. 
G4-LA6* Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism 
and total number of work-related fatalitiesPerformance in detail 74
G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unionsPromoting health and reducing stress  
Health and safety topics are covered not only in agreements with trade unions but also in our procedures and directives. Psychological risks prevention was specially covered in 2014.54, 55
DEVELOP TRAINING AND EMPOWERMENT
MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATIONG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Training and empowerment 55, 56
G4-L A11 Employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviewsTraining and empowerment
100% of professional grade employees receive annual performance and career development 
through the IPCM (Individual Performance and Career Management). This has been extended to some supervisory levels in France. All other employees receive an annual performance review but this is done on a site-by-site basis and tracked centrally for all managers55
SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS
PROMOTE AND ENFORCE ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES
MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATIONG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Promoting and enforcing ethical business practices 65
G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken None recorded in the reporting year
MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAININGG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Promoting and enforcing ethical business practices 65
G4-HR4 Risks to the right to exercise freedom of association 
and collective bargainingNone identified
SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
INNOVATION
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Innovation 44, 45
CUSTOMER SATISFACTIONG4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Customer satisfaction 43Forward-looking statementsBusiness  and sustainability   
performance report 2014 81
This report was released in June 2015
Coordination: 
Corporate Communications Department and Sustainability Council.
Design and production: 
Radley Yeldar | www.ry.com
Photography credits:
Aerial Innovations  
Airbus  
G. Brooks  
C. Butcovich  
F. Debat t y  
A.Doyen  
M. Ellis  
European Aluminium Association  
European Business Awards  
J. Goldstein  
Heil Trailer International  
Istock  
M. Lieske  
V. Martin  
Master Image Programmes  
D. Mortemore  
Thinkstock  
G. Uféras  
C. WilliamsPrint: Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified 
company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001. 
100% of the inks used are vegetable 
oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. 
This document is printed on Cocoon 
Silk 100; process chlorine free (PCF) paper containing 100% recycled fibre approved by the FSC®. This report contains statements that relate to future events 
and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Forward-looking statements include those statements 
containing such words as ‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘scheduled’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘will’, or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Constellium’s expectations, assumptions or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward
-l
ooking statements. 
The forward-looking statements contained in this report are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and are not guarantees  
of future performance. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth under the heading ‘Risk Factors’ in our Annual Report on Form 20-F, and described from time to time in subsequent reports, filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Constellium disclaims any obligation to update publicly any 
forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.