Headquarters
Tupolevlaan 41–61  
1119 NW, Schiphol-Rijk  
The Netherlands
Corporate offices
830 Third Avenue, 9th floor  
New York, NY 10022  
United StatesWashington Plaza  
40–44 Rue Washington  
75008 Paris  
France
Max Hoegger-Strasse 6  
8048 Zurich  
Switzerland
www.constellium.com
Ideas. Materialized.Constellium – Business and sustainability performance report 2015Constellium – Business and sustainability performance report 2015
Business   
and sustainability   
performance  
repor t 2015 Infinite   opportunitiesInside this 
report…
Full contents are listed under this flap.
About this report
Reporting period Financial year 2015  
(January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015)
Reporting cycle Annual
Date of publication June 2016
Report scope  The data or financials relate to Constellium 
worldwide falling within the scope of 
consolidation at December 31, 2015. 
Report content The content of this report is based on our 
business data and the results of our dialogue  
with stakeholders, the Global Reporting 
Initiative G4 requirements and other 
sustainability ratings and rankings.
Global Reporting InitiativeGRI G4 guidelines – Core 
Assurance The report is in compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines and maintains code of reporting  
as advised by GRI. It is not externally assured.
Contact For further information please contact:  
communications@constellium.com or  
sustainability@constellium.com
www.constellium.comOverview
Chief Executive Officer insights 2
Highlights of the year 4
Our value chain 6
How we are organized 8
Strategy and markets in focus
Achieving our vision 11
In focus: EHS 13
In focus: Lean 14
In focus: Innovation 16
Market trends 18
Business unit perspectives: Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products  20
 Aerospace and Transportation  22
 Automotive Structures and Industry 23
Governance in focusBoard of Directors 26
Executive Committee 28
Our Sustainability Council 30
Sustainability in focusOur sustainability targets 32
Our materiality assessment  34
Engaging with our stakeholders 35
In focus: Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 36
Making our products more sustainable 38
Supporting our people 44
Making our operations more efficient  50
Doing business responsibly 56
Performance in focusConsolidated income statement 61
Consolidated statement of financial position 62
Consolidated statement of cash flows 63
Share information  64
Sustainability performance  65
GRI content index 71
Memberships  76
Forward-looking statements 77
We are Constellium. 
We are a global leader 
in aluminium solutions 
whose business is to materialize today’s 
and tomorrow’s ideas.
For us, aluminium is 
more than a metal. It is part of the solution 
for tomorrow’s lighter, 
faster economy.
Abundant, endlessly 
recyclable and 
reusable, aluminium’s unique properties 
mean that, together 
with our partners, we can shape a future 
of infinite possibilities 
and infinite opportunities.
Overview
 Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015 01
Inside this reportBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201503 02
Overview
Chief Executive Officer insights
Positioned for growth
Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact
 “For the fourth consecutive year we support 
the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, 
labor, environment and anti-corruption.These principles lie at the heart of our commitment to sustainability. In this report 
we communicate on our progress and have 
referenced the UNGC Communication on Progress logo where applicable.”
Where does Constellium 
stand today?
2015 proved to be another year of 
transformation and development, 
and a year of marked improvement in 
our performance.
I want first to highlight the record 
performance of our Automotive 
Structures and Industry segment. Constellium has become a leading 
global supplier of structural 
components for the automotive industry. The recovery of our 
aerospace business also reflects our 
commitment to continuous operational 
improvement. The teams should 
be especially proud of the renewed 
contract we signed recently with 
Airbus. Finally, packaging remains the 
bedrock of Constellium and proves to 
be highly resilient in all circumstances.
We completed the acquisition of Wise 
Metals early in 2015. This represents a major step forward in our strategy. 
Despite disappointing financial results 
in 2015, we expect the Muscle Shoals facility to enable us to become a 
global leader in the packaging market 
and to play a role of paramount importance in our Body-in-White 
(BiW) strategy in the US. But most importantly, we achieved a significant improvement in safety, 
with 20% fewer recordable cases compared to 2014. 
Has your BiW 
strategy changed? 
BiW definitely remains our core focus 
for mid to long-term growth.
In the US, our strengthened partnership with UACJ positions us as the only 
global player in this promising market. 
We have started the qualification of our first US BiW finishing line in Bowling 
Green, Kentucky. We expect to soon 
announce the location of the first of two additional finishing lines scheduled 
to be launched before the end of 
the decade. 
In Europe, the ramp-up of the new finishing line in Neuf-Brisach is 
expected to significantly increase our 
BiW capacity as early as 2017 . 
What about innovation?
Innovation, and more generally Research and Technology (R&T), is 
one of the key pillars for our success.
We have outstanding results in this 
field, with 2015 seeing a new record 
number of patents from Constellium’s Technology Center, C-TEC. In 2015, we completely reshaped our R&T organization and approach to drastically reduce process lead times from ideation to production. 
During 2016, we will be opening  
a new R&T hub in the US in 
Plymouth, Michigan in order to 
further strengthen and expand our 
leadership position in innovation.
Finally, Constellium’s University 
Technology Center, a joint project with Brunel University London, has opened its doors in the UK. We expect 
this initiative to cut prototyping times 
by at least 50%, and then transfer those processes to our plants at 
speed and with minimal risk. 
From a financial 
perspective, how did the 
business perform? 
2015 showed a clear improvement 
in our performance. We experienced 
strong growth in shipments (up 39%) 
while our revenue was up 41% to €5.2 billion. Our adjusted EBITDA 
was €343 million, an increase of 
25% due to the acquisition of Wise Metals, a record performance in 
the Automotive Structures and 
Industry segment, and a marked recovery in the Aerospace and 
Transportation segment. 
Efficient cash conservation and 
working capital management  
are key financial targets. With our 
strong liquidity, we believe that 
we are well-positioned to execute 
our strategy.2015 has been another year of transformation for 
Constellium. Pierre Vareille, Chief Executive Officer, reveals 
the highlights of the past year, the main actions for 2016 
and the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
Revenue by business unit
20.3%
26.3%53.4%Packaging and Automotive 
Rolled Products
Aerospace and 
Transportation
Automotive Structures 
and Industry€2,748m
€1,047m€1,355m
Adjusted EBITDA €m
2014 2015* 2013275343
280€343m
Group sales €m
2014 2015* 20133,6665,153
3,495€5,153m
FTE by geographic region
7%
20%
26%2%
39%6%France
USAGermanySwitzerlandEastern EuropeAsiaWhat were the key 
challenges of the year?
The performance of our Muscle 
Shoals facility continues to be high 
on our agenda because its results are 
among the main factors impacting our stock price. We have taken a number 
of corrective actions and these will 
continue during the months ahead. We are optimistic.
In parallel, our BiW strategy demands 
a long-term transformation that will 
undoubtedly be accompanied by 
challenges, but we are on track to execute our ambitious plan. 
What progress did you make 
on sustainability in 2015? 
We made significant progress 
in many areas of sustainability. 
One of the most important initiatives 
of the year was the introduction of  
a new Supplier Code of Conduct, 
which outlines the standards 
of integrity we expect from our suppliers. Our work with suppliers 
and the monitoring of their 
performance triggered our promotion from Silver to Gold Recognition Level 
by EcoVadis, a well-known agency 
that specializes in sustainable development and ethics. What are your hopes 
and ambitions for 2016?
Over the last four years, we have 
laid the foundations for growth 
and success. Our quality and on-
time delivery performance have improved dramatically, thanks to 
the implementation of our Lean 
Transformation program, and this has solidified our reputation 
among customers. 
At the same time, we have made 
focused investments to strengthen 
our leadership position in the aerospace market and to become 
a partner of choice for automotive 
manufacturers in the US and Europe 
for both extruded and rolled products. 
As a result, our Adjusted EBITDA more 
than doubled in the last four years.
I expect 2016 to be a breakthrough 
year that will demonstrate our 
continuing success. I am very confident about the future. 
Thanks to the outstanding efforts 
of our teams of talented and committed individuals, Constellium is 
well -placed to execute its ambitious 
strategy and to continue to deliver 
profitable and sustainable growth.
Pierre Vareille  
Chief Executive Officer “Constellium is well-placed 
to execute its ambitious 
strategy and to continue 
to deliver profitable and sustainable growth.”
Full-time equivalent employees (FTE)**
10,699 
*  Includes Wise Metals’ sales from the date of acquisition, 
which occurred on January 5, 2015
** Permanent and fixed-term employeesBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201505 04
Overview
Highlights of the year
Our key achievements
This has been a year of significant achievements,  
as we made good progress in our drive to seize key  
market opportunities. On these pages, we share   
the major highlights. 
Invested $35 million  
in Ravenswood, 
West Virginia
At Ravenswood in the US,  
we are installing a new,  
state-of-the-art pusher 
furnace, primarily dedicated to the manufacturing of 
advanced aluminium alloys. 
The new equipment is due to 
start production at the end 
of 2016 and will significantly 
expand the plant’s ability  
to support the growth 
ambitions of our customers.
Signed an agreement to 
develop energy-saving  
remelting technologies
We have signed a joint development 
agreement to use Linde’s oxy-fuel 
technology in our recycling and 
melting furnaces, with a goal of cutting energy consumption by 
half while increasing melting rates 
by 20%. This is the latest initiative in our long-term partnership with 
Linde in the area of energy-efficient 
remelting technologies.Invested €22.5 million 
to expand capacity in 
aluminium automotive 
hard alloys
The investment at Decin in 
the Czech Republic includes a 
new casthouse, a new indirect 
extrusion press line for the production of hard alloy bars and 
profiles, a new drawing line, and 
a complete refurbishment of an existing extrusion line to meet 
increased demand. Our Decin 
plant is now the largest integrated hard and soft alloy plant in Europe.Formed an R&D 
partnership to explore 
3D printing
We formed a partnership with 
STELIA Aerospace, a world-
leading player in the design and 
production of aircraft equipped fuselages, and CT INGENIERIE 
in a research and development 
project. This project, called FAST, focused on topological 
optimization of aero structures 
and additive manufacturing, also known as 3D printing. What makes 
this project so unique is its 
unparalleled scale and its holistic optimization approach.Invested $40 million to expand our plant 
at Van Buren, Michigan
This state-of-the-art facility produces customized 
automotive structures and features advanced 
prototyping and development capabilities. The 210,000 
square foot expansion project has doubled plant manufacturing capacity at Van Buren. 
Created a new aluminium 
solution for aerosols
Aeral™ is a new aluminium solution 
designed for the production of 
aerosol containers using the Drawn 
and Ironed (D&I) technology currently used to produce beverage cans. 
Aeral™ allows up to 30% weight 
saving compared to traditional impact extruded containers, while 
maintaining the same level of 
performance in terms of ductility and pressure resistance.
Expanded our US manufacturing  
facilities for automotive structures 
We are constructing a new $32 million manufacturing facility in Bartow County, Georgia, in response to growing demand for our 
automotive structures in North America. This project, which includes 
a $12 million investment by developer Seefried Properties, is expected to create approximately 150 high-tech manufacturing jobs by 2019.
$32m 
Construction spend to meet automotive 
structures demand 15 0  
Approximately 150 high-tech manufacturing jobs created by 2019
Completed the acquisition  
of Wise Metals
On January 5, 2015, we completed 
the acquisition of Wise Metals, a 
private aluminium sheet producer 
located in Muscle Shoals, Alabama. The acquisition gave us immediate 
access to 450,000 metric tons of hot 
mill capacity from the widest strip mill in North America with potential 
to add incremental capacities, 
positioning us on the can market and preparing for Body-in-White 
capabilities expansion. Received a Gold level 
recognition for corporate 
social responsibility 
We were awarded Gold level 
recognition by EcoVadis, an 
independent rating agency 
which specializes in sustainable development and performance 
monitoring. We achieved the 
highest level of recognition for our results in corporate 
responsibility practices in the 
environmental, social, ethical and supply chain areas.
 30%  
Weight saving achieved with Aeral™
Our value chain
Bauxite extraction 
Aluminium is produced from bauxite ore, 
which is predominantly extracted from 
open cast mines. Alumina refining
In refineries, bauxite is processed into 
pure aluminium oxide (alumina) via the 
Bayer chemical process. The residue of 
the Bayer process is strictly managed according to industry standards.Casting/rolling  
and extrusion 
Other metals are added to the molten aluminium to create customized 
alloys before being cleaned of oxides 
and gases, and then cast into ingots. These are then cast into billets or slabs. Billets are transformed into 
extruded products. Slabs are rolled 
to produce plate, sheets or coils.
Value creation  
At our sites in North America, Europe 
and China we put our know-how and expertise in alloys and semi-product 
elaboration to work, sustaining 
communities by providing employment and investing in people and capital expenditure projects. In addition,  
we work hard to prevent and minimize environmental impacts in terms of energy, waste and water and to 
improve our safety performance. 
For more detail  
see pages 50–53Recycling 
Aluminium can be endlessly recycled 
to deliver new products that can exhibit 
the same properties as products made 
out of primary material. There are three sources of recycled aluminium: scrap produced during our processes; 
scrap produced during our customers’ 
processes, such as stamping and milling; and scrap recovered at the 
end of a product’s life. We recycle all 
of these three categories. 
Value creation  
We are particularly focused on ensuring that a product is recycled at the end of its 
life, as this saves 95% of the energy needed 
to produce primary metal. We believe that we can further improve recycling through collaboration and partnership with all 
relevant stakeholders including customers, 
associations and research centers.
For more detail  
see pages 42–43
Aluminium smelting
Primary aluminium is produced in smelters, where pure aluminium  
is extracted from alumina by the  
Hall-Héroult process. Aluminium  
output has increased by a factor of  
13 since 1950, making aluminium the 
most widely used non-ferrous metal. Product use 
Our products are used extensively in the 
aerospace, packaging and automotive 
sectors – reducing weight and improving 
fuel consumption in a large range of applications that enhance products  
and improve lives. 
Value creation  
We have developed stable, diversified  
and long-standing customer relationships 
through which we deliver products that 
offer improved strength, lightness and 
durability. Of particular relevance to the transportation sector, our material 
reduces weight, thus leading to significant 
reduction in CO
2 emissions during the 
life of the product.
For more detail  
see pages 20–24Product design  
and manufacturing
We work closely with our customers to develop, produce and deliver 
innovative and sustainable 
aluminium solutions that are helping to transform the world.
Value creation  
Our track record of innovation 
is founded on C-TEC, Constellium  
world-class technology center 
where over 250 specialists create 
the ideas that bring new standards of performance to our customers 
and to consumers worldwide. 
We also have product design capabilities in other areas, most notably automotive structures. 
For more detail  
see pages 41–42
1
Aluminium is the world’s third most abundant element and a vital material in 21st century manufacturing. Here, we explain 
the various stages of production – from bauxite mine to finished 
product and recycling – and outline how some of our initiatives are creating value for customers, suppliers and society.Our role in the life-cycle 
of aluminium
Further information  
Here we provide an overview of our value chain, more detailed information on this and related 
topics can be found on pages 34–59 and online at:
Understanding our role in the value chain  
Our role varies as aluminium passes through the different stages of the value chain.
Where Constellium directly controls
Where Constellium indirectly controls
Where Constellium influenceswww.constellium.com/sustainability/
responsible-business
How we partner with  
our customers
We work closely with customers to understand 
their needs and create the innovations that 
meet them. Each of our business units has the 
objective to carry out a customer satisfaction survey every two years. 
For more detail  
see page 39
 
How we collaborate with 
our partners
We are active supporters of the ASI (see pages 
36–37) and also members of many other 
industry organizations including European 
Aluminium, The Aluminum Association and the International Aluminium Institute.
Through these organizations, we work on many 
initiatives, particularly end-of-life collection, 
sorting and recycling programs. On the 
innovation side, we work with an extensive network of universities and research institutes.
For more detail  
see page 35
Value creation  
Extraction, refining and smelting are production steps which create value for raw material suppliers and local communities. But they can also have impacts related to biodiversity and human rights in bauxite mining, waste management in alumina refining and greenhouse gas 
emissions in aluminium smelting. 
As a buyer of slabs and ingots, we have developed our own responsible purchasing policy. However, we recognize that this is not enough to 
cover the whole value chain. This is why we became a founding member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) (see pages 36–37 for 
more information on the ASI).
How we engage with our suppliers
Suppliers are a crucial part of our value chain. We engage with them formally via our Supplier Code of Conduct, site visits, audits and by sharing 
sustainability targets as well as through the ASI for aluminium suppliers. 
For more detail  
see pages 56–59  
2 3
 68 7
5Collecting and sorting
We have rigorous processes in place to collect and sort scrap produced at 
our own facilities and also offer these 
services to customers, creating value by reducing costs and enhancing the recycling of products into new ones. 
Value creation  
Aluminium recycling within the 
manufacturing process loop makes 
sense both economically and 
environmentally. We ensure that no metal is lost. 
Efficient collection and sorting 
systems are critical for the effective recycling of end-of-life scrap and 
also help retain the value of the alloy 
in the loop.
For more detail  
see pages 42–43
4
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201507 06
Overview
Plant
Ofﬁce
R&D centre
Joint ven ture
Plant
Ofﬁce
R&D centre
Joint ven ture
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201509 08
Overview
Revenue €m
2014 2015 20131,1971,355
1,204
 
 Adjusted EBITDA €m
91103120
2014 2015 2013Packaging and Automotive 
Rolled Products
Develops, provides and recycles 
aluminium sheets and coils for 
packaging applications (beverage  
and food cans, closures, foils)  
as well as automotive solutions, including high-performance  
products for Body-in-White (BiW)  
and heat exchangers.Aerospace 
and Transportation
Provides technologically advanced 
aluminium alloys with wide 
applications across the global 
aerospace, defense, transportation and industrial sectors. The business 
unit offers a wide range of products 
including plates, sheets and extrusions which allow Constellium 
to provide tailored solutions to 
our customers.Automotive Structures  
and Industry
Produces advanced solutions for  
the global automotive industry, 
including Crash Management 
Systems (CMS) and other structural and safety parts and extrusions. 
This business unit also manufactures 
large profiles mainly for road and  
rail transportation, energy and  
other industrial applications.Constellium is a global sector leader strongly committed to 
designing and manufacturing innovative and high value- added 
aluminium products and solutions for a broad range of applications. Our primary markets are aerospace, automotive and packaging – and we meet the needs of customers in these markets through three business units:A global sector leaderHow we are organized
For more on performance  
see page 20For more on performance  
see page 22For more on performance  
see page 23
Revenue €m
2014 2015* 20131,5762,748
1,480
 
 Adjusted EBITDA €m
118183
105
2014 2015* 2013
 
 Revenue €m
9211,047
859
2014 2015 2013
 
 Adjusted EBITDA €m
7380
58
2014 2015 2013North America
Van Buren | MI
 – Produces customized automotive structures and Crash 
Management Systems (CMS)
 –Features advanced prototyping 
and development capabilities
Bowling Green | KY
 –Joint venture with UACJ/  
Body-in-White (BiW) finishing line
Ravenswood | WV
 –Worldwide unique assets for  
aerospace plates
 –Recognized supplier to the highly demanding defense industry
 – Wide-coil capabilities and 
largest stretcher worldwide 
enabling unique product creation
Muscle Shoals | AL
 –Widest strip mill in the US
 –World-class recycling centerEurope
Singen  | Germany
 –Integrated hot/cold-rolling line
 –Recognized for closure stock and functional surfaces
 –One of the largest extrusion presses in the world
 –Advanced and highly productive integrated CMS 
manufacturing lines
Issoire | France
 –One of the world’s two leading 
aerospace plate mills, with 
wingskin capabilities
 –AIRWARE® casthouse for  
low-density alloys
 – Recycling facility
Voreppe  | France
 – C-TEC, our world-class 
technology centerNeuf-Brisach  | France
 –Second largest volume, fully integrated, rolling mill 
in Europe
 –Dedicated primarily to can  
stock and BiW
 –World-class recycling center
Valais  | Switzerland
 –Precision plate shop for general 
engineering products
 –Leading large profile supplier for high-speed train manufacturers
 –Casthouses in Steg and Chippis
 –Plate shop and casthouse qualified for aerospace
Decin | Czech Republic
 –Europe’s largest hard alloys  
extrusion plantAsia
Changchun  | China
 –Joint venture with Engley 
 –Provides global customers  
with CMS and other structural modules  
Main plants
* Includes Wise Metals’ sales from the date of acquisition, which occurred on January 5, 2015Our global footprint:
Our key  
customers  
include:Aerospace:
 –Airbus
 –Boeing
 –Bombardier
 –Dassault Aviation
 –Embraer
 –KAI
 –Lockheed Martin
 –Pilatus
 –SpaceXPackaging:
 –Amcor
 –Anheuser-Busch inBev
 –Ardagh Group
 –Ball
 –Can-Pack S.A.
 –Coca-Cola
 –Crown
 –RexamAutomotive:
 –Audi
 –BMW Group
 –Fiat Chrysler Automobiles
 –Ford
 –General Motors
 –Jaguar Land Rover
 –Mercedes-Benz
 –Porsche
 –PSA Peugeot Citroën
 –Tesla
 –Valeo
Plant
OfficeTechnology centerJoint venturep
¦
utBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 201511
Strategy and markets in focus 10Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015
With stringent regulations and 
standards requiring a significant 
improvement in fuel efficiency over 
the next decade, and consumers becoming increasingly sensitive 
about climate change, greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions and fuel consumption, we expect a growing 
number of automotive Original 
Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) to rapidly integrate a higher volume of 
aluminium in their future models.
 Aluminium is considered to be  
a material of choice capable of 
delivering exceptional weight 
reduction to the automotive industry. 
Aluminium also goes beyond lightweighting: aesthetics, design, 
strength, safety, energy absorption, 
corrosion resistance and infinite recyclability are other reasons for 
carmakers to prefer aluminium over 
other materials. What is your vision of  
the BiW market in the 
United States? 
Constellium considers the US to be a 
very promising market for aluminium 
in automotive, and this is illustrated 
by the undisputed success of the new version of the Ford F-150. 
The aluminium BiW market in North 
America has already increased from 
70kt in 2012 to approximately 500kt 
in 2015. Experts forecast that it will grow to 950/1,200kt in 2020, with 
further growth to 2025. 
Even when viewed conservatively,  
this means that the market will 
double over the next five years. The experts’ view, which is shared  
by the aluminium industry,  
is primarily based on the forecasted penetration rates of aluminium  
BiW per product. 
For light vehicle bodies and closures, 
aluminium is expected to grow from 
6% to 26% from 2015 to 2025*. 
And in Europe?
We expect to benefit from strong 
market growth as the integration of 
aluminium components continues 
to expand, not only in premium vehicles but also in the high-volume 
car segment. 
European automakers must reduce 
average carbon emissions across 
their fleets, from around 140 g/km in 2010 to 95 g/km in 2020. 
Today, industry analysts believe  
that the aluminium BiW market in 
Europe could leap from approximately 
400kt in 2015 to around 700/800kt in 2020.What is Constellium’s BiW 
development strategy?
Our strategy is clear and consistent: 
we are focusing on two growth  
areas, Europe and North America, where we are expanding our industrial footprint to serve our 
automotive customers.
In the US, this strategy has already 
seen us achieve two important 
milestones. Firstly, the acquisition  
of Wise Metals, the widest hot mill 
in the US, strengthens our industrial 
platform and is expected to provide incremental capacity to feed our 
BiW finishing lines. Secondly, the 
partnership signed with UACJ in 2014 and extended in 2016, will 
enable us to be among the largest 
global producers in BiW and ideally positioned to serve US, Japanese and 
European OEMs. Our first finishing 
line in Bowling Green, Kentucky, has already started ramping up, and 
we intend to build two additional 
lines, with the locations still to be announced. The cost of these two 
additional lines will be shared by 
Constellium and UACJ under the terms of our expanded partnership. 
In Europe, we are long-time partners 
of automotive OEMs and have been 
providing them with aluminium BiW 
for decades. Strategy and 
markets in focusThis section focuses on our strategy, markets and 
business units, outlining the achievements of 2015 and 
our ambitions for 2016. We report progress against 
our strategy and take a closer look at our work around Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), our Lean program and innovation, before providing greater detail on the 
activities and performance of our three business units.Developing a world-leading Body-in-White (BiW) capability  
is at the heart of our strategy.Delivering our  
Body-in-White strategyAchieving our vision
 “We expect a growing number 
of automotive OEMs to 
rapidly integrate a higher 
volume of aluminium in their future models.”
Peter Basten  
Vice President,  
Strategy and  
Business Development
>500kt 
The aluminium market in North America 
has already increased from 70kt in 2012 
to approximately 500kt in 2015.
*Source: Ducker WorldwideBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201513 12
Strategy and markets in focus
We are strengthening this leadership  
position with significant investments 
in our plants to increase capacity 
and respond to the demand of the 
European market as early as 2017 . 
We completed a significant 
investment in BiW at our Singen facility in Germany, which will 
increase capacity by 20,000 metric 
tons. In Neuf-Brisach, France, we invested €180 million in a 
new finishing line, which is now 
ramping up.
Are you considering China as 
part of your BiW strategy? 
We are present in China with a plant 
producing Crash Management 
Systems from extruded products and 
have a good knowledge of this market. We continue to monitor the Chinese 
BiW market and regularly review our 
strategy and options based on this analysis. We will of course evaluate 
opportunities as we identify them, but 
at this stage, we believe that there is no significant market for BiW products 
in China – no Chinese OEM is yet using 
aluminium and our European plants currently ship BiW to German OEMs 
producing and selling cars in China. What level of investment 
do you need to support 
your strategy?
While we previously announced a 
$620 million investment to support 
our BiW strategy in the US, we 
lowered our capital investment plan to $340 million in order to upgrade 
Muscle Shoals and fund our share 
of two additional finishing lines.
We have reduced the capital required 
to complete the upstream portion of our North American BiW investment. 
Under the terms of our expanded 
partnership with UACJ, we will be 
sharing the cost of the two additional 
100kt finishing lines.
In addition, the joint venture will 
co-market our products and technical 
services to our automotive customers 
in North America. 
Overall, this approach should 
significantly enhance our ability 
to serve automotive customers through the combination of our 
broad portfolio of BiW alloys, strong 
technical capabilities and multiple hot mill diversification. What are Constellium’s key 
competitive advantages in 
the BiW market? 
We are very well-positioned to take 
advantage of this growing market in 
North America and in Europe. We have 
longstanding partnerships with the automotive industry, unrivaled 
Research and Technology (R&T) 
capabilities, and renowned industrial expertise. We provide carmakers 
with more than just the extensive 
advantages of lightweighting. 
 “We have devised a 
comprehensive and very 
consistent vision and 
strategy. This will enable us to become one of the 
global leaders in this 
promising market.”
We also provide car makers with 
engineered, tailor-made alloys and solutions: products and modules for improved fuel economy, high performance of parts and material utilization, and reductions in tooling costs. At the same  time, we continue to focus on innovation, with a new research center in Plymouth, Michigan. 
We have devised a comprehensive 
and very consistent vision and strategy. This will enable us to 
become one of the global leaders 
in this promising market.Progress, but no cause 
for complacency
During 2015 we continued to make 
good progress on delivering our 
commitment to EHS. Safety is our 
#1 priority and our Recordable Case Rate continues to be among the best 
in the industry.
However, we recognize that the 
nature of our industry’s materials  
and machinery mean that there  
are inherent risks during our operations – and every procedure 
is therefore conceived and implemented with accident  
avoidance as the primary objective. So although this year’s performance is pleasing, it is in no way cause 
for complacency.
The next step for our team is to 
engage and empower our operators, 
supporting the Standard Operating Procedures we introduced in 2014, and which are currently being 
implemented, with programs  
focused on modifying behaviors.  
The aim is to ensure that our  
people buy into our safety culture  
and understand the personal  
benefits that will be generated  
by correct behaviors.
 “We work hard to reduce 
our environmental impact 
and that of our suppliers – 
and are committed to doing even more in the 
years ahead.”
Didier Vasner  
Group Manager,  
EnvironmentInitiatives such as the Contained 
Hazards project, the Five Minute 
Safety Talks and a renewed focus on 
our Leadership Safety Tours form the cornerstone of our drive for improved 
performance in 2016.
We work hard to keep our people 
healthy as well as safe and regularly 
carry out specific programs, such as stress-related disease prevention, at 
our sites. In 2016 we are rolling-out a 
health program at two major plants to encourage healthy eating and 
physical activity.
Our overall environmental 
performance improved during the 
year, although our figures have been impacted by the acquisition of the 
Muscle Shoals plant. The focus for 
the year ahead will include energy efficiency and reducing the amount 
of waste sent to landfill.Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) is our first and 
foremost priority.  Supporting our drive 
for growthIn focus: EHS
In summary
reduction in our accident  
Recordable Case Rate
20%
recordable cases at our plants in Burg, 
Changchun, Dahenfeld, Gottmadingen, 
Decin, Landau, Valais (Automotive 
Structures and Industry), Montreuil-Juigné, Ussel, Bowling Green and C-TEC
0
hours worked without a recordable case at Decin
2.6m+
hours worked without a recordable case at Decin, Gottmadingen and Ussel
2m+
major or significant environmental incidents 
0Achieving our vision (continued)
 “Keeping our people safe and 
healthy at work is our #1 
objective. We are constantly 
exploring new and better ways to work. This is a 
never-ending but rewarding 
project, because we are making Constellium a place 
from which everybody can 
go home safely and enjoy their lives in good health.”
Volker Brockhagen  
Group EHS Director
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201515 14
Strategy and markets in focus
Maintaining our focus  
from Lean phase 1
In 2012, we identified six Lean Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) and 
targeted progress of at least 2% per 
month on each of them. The support of our people backed by a range of 
specific, very efficient Lean tools and 
the engagement of our management has enabled us to achieve most of 
these demanding targets.
Environment, Health and Safety
Our most important priority, we work 
hard to protect the environment and 
ensure the health and safety of our teams. As we reported last year, 
progress on safety in 2014 stagnated. 
However, during 2015 we addressed this matter and have delivered 
a step change in performance. 
Our Recordable Case Rate reduced by 20% in 2015 compared with 2014. 
Although this performance, which is 
significantly better than companies across the European and American 
aluminium industry, gives us some 
satisfaction, we remain committed to further improvements – see 
pages 44–45 for details on how we 
aim to achieve this.
Empowering our people
Behavioral issues have a huge impact 
on both safety and performance, and 
nobody is better placed to identify where improvements can be achieved 
than our own people. Our aim during 
Lean phase 1 was that employees at each site should make at least 
one suggestion for improvements 
each month. This was again achieved during 2015. For 2016 and beyond, the KPI that tracks employee suggestions is 
being incorporated in Lean phase 2, 
where we expect it to drive significant improvements at production unit level.
Product quality
Our business is built on high quality products. This KPI tracks customer 
complaints and our performance is 
based on detecting any defects during production – before the product goes 
to the customer. 2015 was another 
excellent year for quality, with only one-third of the customer complaints 
received in 2012 when the Lean 
program was first implemented. 
On-time, in-full delivery
This KPI also shows significant 
improvement. The percentage of late 
deliveries to customers has been 
reduced from 55% in 2012 to 18% at the end of 2015.
Inventory
Designated as the ‘Year of Just-in-
Time’, during 2015 we focused on 
reducing our inventory through the 
extensive implementation of pull flow systems, in order to address the 
relatively disappointing performance 
in the previous year. We are retaining the 2% per month target, supported 
by a new focus on flexibility during 
2016 (see the case study opposite).
Equipment downtime
The amount of time that key equipment 
is not operational has been reduced 
from 30% to 15% during Lean phase 1.  
In 2015 we identified additional key 
equipment which will broaden the 
scope of this KPI in Lean phase 2. Longer, deeper, wider scope 
for Lean phase 2
During 2015 we began to implement 
Lean phase 2, which builds on the 
success of phase 1 and extends it 
into new areas. Phase 2 is:
 –Longer – this is a five-year program aimed at anchoring continuous improvement in Constellium. 
The target for each KPI is a 2% 
month-on-month improvement, which equates to a year-on-year 
improvement of 20%. Our goal is to 
achieve a 70% improvement in the five years of the program;
 –Deeper – where phase 1 was implemented at a plant level, phase 
2 goes down to APU level; and
 –Wider – phase 2 extends the 
principles of Lean to our support 
functions such as Sales, Purchasing, 
Finance, IT, R&T and HR.
Each office is tasked with achieving two of the three targets set out below:
Usage of Lean tools
This KPI tracks the degree to which 
our Lean tools are being utilized in our 
support functions. During the year, 
60 administrative managers received 
coaching sessions on a quarterly 
basis to ensure that our teams understand how to use the tools 
available. Overall, after just  
one year the usage of Lean tools 
is already running at 35% of our 
expectations (with considerable 
disparity between different functions). The target is to raise this 
level to 65% across the organization 
during 2016, with much less disparity between the functions.Emails received
Unnecessary email communications 
waste time and slow down performance. 
We measure the number of emails received throughout Constellium. 
We have identified 22 emails as an 
acceptable daily average for most employees and are confident that as 
the Lean office is developed over the 
coming years we will see a significant reduction towards that number.
Specific KPIs for each function
Our teams in each function have 
identified a target specific to their 
roles. While some functions are on target, others have work to do. 
However, we expect each of them 
to make good progress over the next five years.Since 2012, our Lean Transformation program has brought 
significant changes to the way we work. During 2015 we began 
to implement Lean phase 2, a new five-year initiative aimed at 
driving continuous improvement.Transforming how we workIn focus: Lean
In summary
Our Lean program demands the commitment and involvement  
of all our people. It has already had a great impact on our performance  
and with the introduction of Lean phase 2, will continue to do so for  
the next five years.
 –The number of accidents we experience has reduced by 80% over the 10 years of 
our EHS First  initiative. Our record is now 
significantly better than the aluminium 
industry average.
 –Our customers’ satisfaction has 
dramatically improved over the three 
years of our Lean Transformation. The number of quality complaints  
and missed deliveries have both been 
reduced by two-thirds. –Our employees are deeply engaged in the 
continuous improvement process, with an 
average of one suggestion per employee 
being implemented every month.
 –The availability of our key equipment has achieved our uptime target, improving 
during the two years of Lean phase 1 from 
70% to 95%. Under Lean phase 2, we have extended this focus to include more of our key equipment.
2016 – the Year of Flexibility
We need our processes to be flexible in order to deliver high quality products 
in the correct quantities at the right 
time. During 2016 our goal is to carry out frequent, safe, efficient and right- first- time equipment changeovers 
so that we can produce small batches of products, on demand. This will reduce our inventory and improve our performance in terms of quality and, most importantly, 
service to our customers.
improvement month-on-month targeted 
at each Autonomous Production Unit 
(APU) in Lean phase 2
2%
improvement per month targeted at each 
facility in Lean phase 1
2%
 –Continuing to track specific KPIs from Lean phase 1
 –Extending Lean into support functions via phase 2
 –Introducing new KPIs for phase 2
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201517 16
Strategy and markets in focus
Value through innovation
C-TEC brings together high-level 
specialists from 22 different 
nationalities. During 2015, we invested 
€46 million in order to provide this team with industry-leading resources 
and facilities. Together, our skilled 
and experienced people focus on harnessing the benefits of aluminium 
and developing innovative solutions 
for our customers in the shortest possible time. This not only creates 
value for our customers, it also 
creates value for Constellium by giving us a demonstrable competitive 
advantage over our peers.
Improving time to market
For our customers, time is a 
commodity in short supply. 
Whether they are working in aerospace, automotive or packaging, 
their key objective is to take new 
ideas to market at speed. To achieve this, they rely on the expertise of 
C-TEC, and in 2015 we again improved 
a track record that was already highly respected in our industry.
We evaluated our processes and 
identified a number of opportunities 
where we could improve our 
ability to rapidly deliver new and better products to our customers. 
For example, we expanded our team, 
adding new competencies that have enhanced our modeling capabilities. 
Modeling enables us to shorten 
the cycle time between concept and industrial trial by allowing us to 
replicate production conditions and 
identify any potential challenges earlier in the process.In addition, we further improved our rapid prototyping capability. This means that when we make 
a scale 1 version of a product, 
it is more likely to be in line with expectations and able to move 
rapidly into full-scale production.
Key highlights
Our expert teams develop practical 
solutions that help our customers 
seize new opportunities to market products with new qualities or higher 
levels of performance. 
The last 12 months have seen 
several notable successes for 
C-TEC, including the development of a new billet casting technology 
for tranche 2 of our AIRWARE
® 
technology. This new aluminium-lithium processing route has now 
been qualified by Airbus for its A350 aircraft and is being delivered through 
our investment in new casthouse 
technology at Issoire.
In automotive, we have further 
developed our leadership position by creating a new welding alloy for 
a key customer. This innovation, 
which facilitates robotic technology and laser welding without the need 
for filler wire, meets the customer’s 
requirement for faster and more cost-effective production while 
also endorsing our own market-
leading reputation. Although initially developed for this specific request, this welding alloy 
has significant further potential 
across the automotive sector.
Twin-track approach
At C-TEC we balance short-
term commercial initiatives with a long -term strategic focus. 
While we create the breakthroughs that transform our customers’ ability to rapidly deliver new products to 
market, we also constantly monitor 
and evaluate the megatrends that are shaping the next generation of 
materials and the opportunities that 
will open up for us and our customers in the coming decades.
Our C-TEC teams work closely with the 
International Scientific Council (ISC) of 
Constellium, drawing on its members’ 
global knowledge and expertise to provide the Board with specialist input 
on trends and challenges, and advice 
on how Constellium can best take advantage of upcoming opportunities. 
For more details on the ISC, please 
see pages 18–19.
The major megatrend in our industry 
is the continuing “aluminization” of Body-in-White (BiW) in the 
automotive market, where the 
challenge is to deliver high volumes at acceptable costs and at the 
right time. C-TEC is central to 
Constellium’s ability to exploit the full potential of BiW. We are investing 
in new research to ensure that the 
business is well -positioned to drive 
the BiW sector over the next five years 
and beyond.We see another emerging megatrend 
around 3D-printing, additive 
manufacturing that enables the 
production of components that would not have been possible even 
24 months ago. 
This is a fast-growing area that is 
attracting significant investment 
and at C-TEC we are working with partner organizations to understand 
the technology and define its 
potential. Although this technology is at an early stage, we envisage a range of practical applications and 
are exploring how merging additive 
manufacturing with traditional rolled aluminium production can 
create something new in terms of 
functional capabilities.Further trends include the advent of Industry 4.0, with its use of big 
data, smart sensors, the ‘internet 
of things’, and atomistic modelling with the potential for alloying by 
design. These could revolutionize 
how aluminium is used, integrated to create hybrid materials, and designed 
and manufactured to create new 
products. As part of the ‘internet of things’ the development of driverless 
cars is another trend that is likely 
to impact our business and the solutions we offer to the automotive 
market. We are also working on new 
AIRWARE
® solutions and advanced 
hybrid materials for the next set of 
challenges in aerospace applications.Innovation is the engine that drives Constellium. Based in France, 
C-TEC is a world-class technology center responsible for the 
process and product innovations that create competitive advantage 
for our business and our customers. In 2015 we finalized plans to expand C-TEC’s capabilities through a new research hub in the US.Powering our futureIn focus: Innovation
In summary
full-time equivalent employees
260
nationalities
22
engineers including 58 PHDs
93
active patent families and trademarks
150
Rapidly bringing innovations 
to market
Supporting Constellium’s  
drive for new productsMonitoring trends, 
seizing opportunities
Opening of a new R&T hub 
in the US
Partnerships with approximately 
50 universities and laboratories  
including:
 –USA: University of Michigan, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
(MIT), Northwestern University, 
University of South Carolina, Worcester Polytechnic Institute
 –UK: Brunel University London, University 
of Manchester, University of Oxford
 –France: CNRS/University laboratories,  
IRT M2P, IRT Jules Verne
 –Germany: RWTH Aachen, German 
Aerospace Center DLR
 –Switzerland: EPFL Lausanne
 –Netherlands: TU Delft
Bright minds, bright future
By being close to our customers, we are  
able to interact in their language and share 
both a common culture and an understanding 
of the market. In 2015 we finalized plans to expand C-TEC’s capabilities through a new research hub in the US, close to the 
automotive industry in Detroit, Michigan. 
Later in 2016, the doors of the hub will open, to support our growth in North America and expand our connections with academia. The hub will create close links with both the University of Michigan (Ann Arbor) and 
Northwestern University and support our 
reputation for collaborating with the brightest 
minds at academic institutions across the world. 
Our partnership with Brunel University London, which is helping to support our relationships with academia and key automotive customers, 
took another important step forwards in 2016. 
Please see the case study on page 24.Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201519 18
Strategy and markets in focus
What is the ISC and what is 
your role as Chairman?
Established in July 2013, the ISC 
provides Constellium with an external 
perspective on technological and 
scientific matters. Our six members, who are all scientists working in 
leading academic institutions, come 
from five different countries - the UK, the US, Japan, France and Germany. 
Together, we offer a wide range of 
complementary skills and experiences in technologies such as fiber 
reinforced polymers, microstructures 
and mechanical behavior, surface technology and casting processes, 
to mention them.
My own strength is materials and 
structure technology for aerospace, 
specifically material technologies that compete with aluminium. As Chairman, 
my task is to structure the work of 
the ISC, to chair meetings, take an overview of interactions between 
Council members and Constellium 
and ensure that we continue to deliver high-level advisory support and 
recommendations to Constellium. 
Each year, the Council attends 
two two-day formal meetings with 
C-TEC, the Constellium technology 
center. These are held at C-TEC in Voreppe, France, as well as at 
various Constellium plants. The local 
knowledge we gain through these visits provides the foundation for 
high-quality advice. In addition, 
we also arrange demand-oriented meetings with individuals at C-TEC 
or the business units to discuss 
specific issues.How does the ISC influence 
innovation at Constellium?
The Council is an external-facing 
organization that pulls in a huge 
amount of information from the worlds 
of academia and industry in order to provide a solid basis for innovation. 
Efficient Research & Technology 
(R&T) is central to the success of 
Constellium, and the ISC supports 
the company in its drive to develop a world-class R&T capability in two 
distinct ways. 
Firstly, we have a technical role under 
which we give advice to C-TEC on 
issues that are outside the company’s direct scope, such as technologies 
that compete with aluminium as 
well as emerging technologies in the field of aluminium alloys, 
such as 3D-printing technology. 
This role is about the properties and effectiveness of particular materials and processes. We analyze these 
and make recommendations on 
new processes or applications that can be used by Constellium to gain 
competitive advantage.
Secondly, we provide organizational 
advice via strategic interaction with 
the top management of the company on areas including the structure of 
the R&T organization. For example, 
we have suggested how best to develop the R&T network, drawing 
on our own global connections to 
advise on possible partnerships with other organizations.What have been the greatest 
achievements of the ISC?
Over the last two and a half years, 
we generated a map of the technical 
competencies and research at 
Constellium and this has given us a broad overview of the company and its 
capabilities. We have made significant 
inputs on many issues. However, four key achievements stand out:
We have given a significant amount 
of advice on casting technology and 
how to improve this to achieve better 
products. Constellium now has a lot of data on casting and this will 
underpin further developments in 
the coming years. Although our role is only advisory, it has been rewarding 
to see most of our recommendations 
turned into actions - with the new casthouses at Issoire, for example.
We have also been instrumental 
in raising issues around material mechanics, such as instabilities 
in the mechanical response of 
aluminium alloys. We gave advice on how to test material behaviors 
and envisage this being used in the 
development of new structures with improved performance. 
In terms of advice on the structure of 
the R&T network, we have evaluated 
our own research universe and this 
has helped Constellium strengthen its co-operation with partners across 
the world. 
Finally, we have played an important 
part in the expansion of Constellium’s R&T capability into new geographies. 
We gave advice on which countries 
would be most suitable for a C-TEC team, and are pleased to see that 
a new research hub is set to open 
shortly in Michigan in the US.What was the highlight 
of 2015?  
We met with the Executive Committee 
of Constellium and presented a 
summary of the work we have 
achieved since the creation of the Council in 2013. We mapped our 
research activities, demonstrated 
the value of the ISC to Constellium and presented our strategic view on 
how we should proceed in the next 
two years. 
Where do you see the 
greatest potential for 
aluminium in future years?
Aluminium has tremendous potential, 
not only in terms of performance 
but also sustainability. While the 
cost/performance ratio is at the heart of its increasing adoption, 
aluminium also offers significantly 
less mechanical complexity when compared to materials such as fiber-
reinforced polymers. 
In the automotive sector, I think we 
will see a steady increase in the 
contribution made by aluminium. New alloys with high strength 
and enhanced ductility and crash 
performance will certainly push the application of aluminium in 
automobiles. Aluminium is seeing 
some competition from new variants of high-strength steel but personally I 
believe that the competition between 
these different technologies is healthy as developments in one will stimulate 
progress in the others. A watchful eye should also be kept 
on potentially upcoming competition 
from glass- and carbon-fiber-
reinforced polymers. 
In aerospace, new alloys incorporating 
elements like lithium will improve lightweighting and this is an area 
where Constellium has a significant 
competitive advantage. The next step is to work on formability and 
welding technology. Friction welding, 
for example, can reduce the need for milling and also reduce scrap, therefore improving the buy-to-fly 
ratio. In the mid-term, glass-fiber-
polymer/aluminium laminates (GLARE) could gain importance, especially 
for fuselage skins, and could open 
an additional business opportunity for Constellium. Looking further 
ahead, the evolution of competing 
carbon-fiber-reinforced polymers (CFRP) should be carefully monitored. 
Once design and production is 
optimized to fulfill the cost targets, 
CFRP will be more competitive 
with aluminium. This is the reason why it is important to work on  
cost-efficient business models for the new aluminium alloys, in addition to the constant improvement of their 
structural performance. 
Sustainability based on infinite 
recyclability is another core 
advantage of aluminium. Fiber-
reinforced polymers can only be down-cycled, and this leads to 
decreased quality. However, although 
aluminium has clear advantages in recycling terms, it can make 
further progress. We need to reuse 
scrap more effectively and make it part of the business model in 
order to reduce costs and retain as 
much aluminium as possible in the manufacturing process. The Council is currently evaluating recycling processes in other 
industries and organizations and will 
make recommendations accordingly.
Competition from steel and fiber-
reinforced polymer technologies demonstrate the value of R&T in 
aluminium, which must be maintained 
at a constant high level in order to capture future business. 
How can Constellium 
ensure that it is well-
positioned to seize the 
opportunities ahead?
To achieve its strategic objectives, 
Constellium must constantly evaluate 
research findings to identify new 
applications and better processes. The organization has the right culture 
and resources in place to ensure 
that the consulting work the Council conducts can be successfully 
transferred into practical initiatives 
at a business unit level and ultimately into new products and services that 
enrich lives.
  As Chairman of the International Scientific Council (ISC) of Constellium, 
Professor Heinz Voggenreiter plays a key role in nurturing and broadening 
our perspective on emerging technologies and trends. Here he outlines how 
the Council operates, the progress it has made and the opportunities now offered to our company.Broadening perspectivesMarket trends
 “Alumini um has tremendous 
potential, not only in  
terms of performance  
but also sustainability”
Professor Heinz Voggenreiter  
Chairman of the  
International Scientific  
Council of Constellium
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201521 20
Strategy and markets in focus
2015 was a year of transformation for 
our Packaging and Automotive Rolled 
Products business unit. The acquisition 
of Muscle Shoals in early 2015 was a major step forward in our strategic 
development. It enabled us to become 
a global leader in the packaging market, while preparing for our Body-in-White 
(BiW) strategy. We are on track and well 
positioned to execute this strategy, which will be accelerated due to the 
strengthened partnership signed in early 
2016 with our joint venture partner, UACJ. We were also pleased to report excellent 
progress in our safety performance, 
especially at Muscle Shoals. Meeting customer needs
Our Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products business unit develops and 
provides aluminium sheets and coils 
for packaging applications (beverage and food cans, closures, foils) as well 
as automotive solutions, including 
high-performance products for BiW and heat exchangers. 
It is a leader in recycling end–of-life 
scrap from packaging products, in 
particular from cans. We are the world 
leader for closure stock, and #2 in Europe and North America for can 
body stock. Our packaging customers 
include major beverage and food can manufacturers, such as Anheuser-
Busch InBev, Coca-Cola, Crown, the 
forthcoming Rexam/Ball merged business, and specialty-packaging 
providers such as Amcor. 
The Packaging and Automotive 
Rolled Products business unit is 
also the largest non-integrated producer of foil stock in Europe and a global leader in aluminium 
solutions for specialty products 
including decorative applications and cosmetics.
Packaging highlights 
A stable and growing market that is resilient across economic cycles, 
packaging remains the bedrock 
of Constellium.
Our packaging capability has been 
significantly strengthened by the 
acquisition in early 2015 of Wise Metals, whose facility in Muscle 
Shoals, Alabama has the widest strip 
mill in North America. This broadened our US industrial platform and 
enhanced our customer portfolio. As a result of the acquisition, 
Constellium is now a global leader in 
the packaging market. The Muscle 
Shoals facility also recycles the equivalent of 14 billion cans per year, 
helping to ensure that aluminium 
fulfills its potential as an infinitely recyclable material. 
14 billion
Our Muscle Shoals facility recycles the 
equivalent of 14 billion cans per year.
In 2015, we began the process of 
integrating the Muscle Shoals plant into our organization, benchmarking it against our other facilities and sharing technical knowledge from both sides of the Atlantic Ocean. 
Despite Muscle Shoals’ disappointing 
results in 2015, the turnaround is well underway thanks to corrective 
measures being implemented since 
the acquisition. 
We are also launching new innovative 
packaging solutions such as Aeral™ 
for aerosol containers, which we believe achieves up to 30% weight 
reduction compared to traditional 
extruded containers, with the same level of performance in terms of 
pressure resistance. This has been a period of sustained activity for Constellium, with 
good progress in a number of important areas. On the following 
pages, we report on the key operations, highlights and goals of 
our three business units.An eventful year
Packaging and 
Automotive  
Rolled ProductsAutomotive highlights 
As the demand from the automotive 
industry for aluminium products 
is growing rapidly, we expect this 
market to become increasingly important for Constellium. 
Our portfolio continued to expand 
during the year, thanks to our 
strong commitment to innovation 
and the R&T capabilities of C-TEC, which have delivered Surfalex
® HF,  
our high formable skin solution, 
as well as Kool X™, our new multi-
clad solution for demanding heat exchanger applications. 
In North America, experts forecast  
that demand for BiW aluminium  
rolled products is likely to reach 1.3  
to 2 million tons in the next decade. We remain firmly committed to  
our strategy and are rapidly growing 
our capacity to meet demand in  
this market. On March 10, 2016,  
we announced a planned expansion  
of our existing joint venture with  
UACJ. This strategic move establishes  
the joint venture as a leading player  
in the North American BiW market. 
Our investments in BiW finishing 
projects are proceeding according  
to schedule. Our first BiW finishing  
line in Bowling Green, Kentucky,  
has  started pre-qualification  
production as planned and is 
expected to ramp-up in 2017 . 
Furthermore, we intend to build 
two additional 100,000 metric ton 
finishing lines, at locations yet to be announced. These three lines will be supplied  
by the hot mills at Muscle Shoals and  
at the UACJ/TriArrows Logan facilities. 
Our investments in BiW 
finishing projects are 
proceeding according to 
schedule. Our first BiW finishing line in Bowling 
Green, Kentucky, has  
started pre-qualification 
production as planned, 
and is expected to ramp-up 
i n  2 017.
We are also increasing our BiW  
capacity in Europe by completing 
a significant investment in Singen, 
Germany during the year and ramping up production on a new BiW finishing 
line in Neuf-Brisach, France (see below). 
Completing BiW  
investments in Europe
We invested €180 million in a new 
continuous annealing and conversion 
line at our Neuf-Brisach, France 
facility with a targeted capacity of 100,000 metric tons. We have already 
started to produce coils ahead 
of schedule for the qualification process. During the year, we also 
completed our investment in a 
new 
furnace at our Singen facility, 
with an improved capacity of 
20,000 metric tons.
Business unit perspectives
BiW finishing line in Bowling Green, Kentucky, US
We are on track with our plan to 
improve operational performance and 
address capacity constraints, and 
well-positioned to take full advantage 
of the continued strong demand in 
the aerospace market. 
Meeting customer needs
The world #1 in value-added aerospace plates, our Aerospace and 
Transportation business provides 
innovative aluminium rolled and extruded products, which contribute to lightweighting and therefore greater 
fuel efficiency. Our capabilities 
include rectangular and machined plates, as well as extrusions for 
aircraft wings and frames, and 
fuselage sheets. We also supply cast products for engine parts from our 
plant in Ussel, France. In addition, 
we serve the space industry as well as the transportation, industry and 
defense sectors. We have strong 
market positions in rolled aluminium 
for truck floors, tank trailers and roof 
coils in North America and Europe, and provide specialized plate for 
armored vehicles. 
Aerospace highlights 
The investments planned for 2015 
were completed on schedule, including 
the ramp-up of our second AIRWARE® 
casthouse at Issoire. Now fully qualified by our main customers, this 
casthouse is supporting production of our innovative AIRWARE
® aluminium-
lithium alloys for different usages in 
the aerospace industry. The investments planned 
for 2015 were completed 
on schedule, including  
the ramp-up of our second 
AIRWARE® casthouse 
at Issoire.
Also at Issoire, we invested in a new 
cut-to-length and finishing line, which 
provides state-of-the art online surface 
inspection to ensure impeccable quality for our aerospace sheets.
At Ravenswood in the US, we achieved record plate production and 
made good headway in our vertical 
integration efforts, fully aligning our 
product offering to the needs of our 
customers. Together with our local pre-machining partner we can now 
offer tailor-made solutions to our 
customers, thus facilitating their operations and improving the buy-to-
fly ratio (the amount of raw material 
required to produce a finished part). 
Last but not least, we recently signed a multi-year contract with 
Airbus, underlining the fact that the 
technology and industrial investments we have made in recent years have 
increased our operational and 
business performance. The contract further solidifies our longstanding 
partnership with Airbus and confirms 
our position as a leading partner for high value-added aluminium products 
and solutions for the aerospace sector. Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015 23 22
Strategy and markets in focusBusiness unit perspectives (continued)  
2015 was another excellent year  
for the Automotive Structures  
and Industry business unit with 
adjusted EBITDA reaching  
€80 million, an 11% increase from 
2014 and the sixth consecutive  
year of growth. For the first time,  
the business unit’s revenues exceeded €1 billion, increasing 
by 14% mainly due to automotive extruded products. 
We are well-positioned to achieve  
our goal to be the fastest-growing 
global leader of extrusion-based 
advanced products in the automotive, transportation and industry markets. Meeting customer needs
Automotive Structures and Industry produces advanced solutions for 
the global automotive industry, 
including Crash Management Systems (CMS) and other structural 
and safety parts as well as a range 
of hard and soft alloy extruded solutions. This business unit also 
manufactures large profiles mainly for 
road and rail transportation, energy and other industrial applications. 
Constellium complements this product 
range with a comprehensive offering of downstream technology and services, 
including pre-machining, surface 
treatment and logistics support services. With plants in North America, 
Europe and China, we have the 
capacity to serve our customers locally. 
Automotive Structures 
and Industry enjoys 
strong, long-term and 
well-established relationships 
with most of the world’s 
leading automotive OEMs. 
The business unit is the #1 or #2 
global player in all of its chosen market segments. In 2015, we became the joint #1 in CMS, thanks to our unmatched alloy portfolio and unrivaled innovation capabilities. This leadership position gives us a great competitive advantage for the future, as analysts forecast that by 2018 aluminium will account for 30% of the total CMS market in Europe and 20% in the US. 
Automotive Structures and Industry 
enjoys strong, long-term and well-established relationships with most of 
the world’s leading automotive OEMs. Automotive 
Structures  
and Industry
Our facilities in Europe and North 
America work seamlessly together to provide our customers with a 
wide portfolio of products and 
services, sharing complementary industrial capabilities. 
Together, they add value through 
customized services, which improve 
our customers’ operations and 
reduce their costs, including pre-machining, advanced welding and 
recycling solutions.
Transportation, industry  
and defense highlights 
In order to bring stronger focus to the 
specific priorities of these markets, 
we have created a dedicated sales 
organization that is making good progress in developing targeted 
commercial strategies and growth 
plans. The team is structured regionally to meet needs in Europe, 
North America and Asia-Pacific. 
A major achievement in this segment was our preparation to transition the 
wide roof coil business from Muscle 
Shoals to Ravenswood. 
Pushing up capacity
In Ravenswood, the new 100Kt pusher furnace is on track for completion 
 
by the end of the year, and we 
anticipate it to be in full production by the end of December 2016. This new 
furnace is set to meet the growth 
ambitions of our customers. It will add pre-heating capacity, which will 
increase output across our entire 
product range.2015 was the year of recovery for our Aerospace and Transportation 
business, which recorded a 14% 
increase in adjusted EBITDA and revenue growth of 13%. As we 
continue to deploy Lean tools and 
processes to drive operational excellence, we have made significant 
progress in terms of customer 
service, on-time delivery and quality. 
We also continued to develop our 
industrial capabilities, with highlights 
including the second AIRWARE
® 
casthouse in Issoire and the decision 
to build a new pusher furnace in Ravenswood. Aerospace and 
Transportation
We recently signed a  
multi-year contract with 
Airbus for the provision 
of advanced aluminium products and solutions.
Machined wing skin at our plant in Issoire, FranceBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 201524
Governance in focusPartnering with them early in the 
concept design, we produce tailor-made solutions to help our customers 
create vehicles that are safer, lighter 
and more fuel efficient to cope with ever more stringent environmental 
regulations worldwide. 
Major achievements 
The automotive market continued  
to be promising worldwide. Analysts  
expect the extrusion market for 
Body Structures to reach 120 kt in North America and Europe in 2025, 
representing a CAGR of 14%.
Our major achievement was the 
successful production ramp-up to 
supply structural components for the Ford F-150, the world’s best selling 
vehicle. For Ford, the switch from steel 
to aluminium was a very demanding transition, and was greatly supported 
by our outstanding record of 99.7% 
on-time delivery. We expanded our Van Buren, Michigan facility to cope with 
Ford’s demanding requirements for 
high-volume high-quality products. In addition to being a privileged partner 
of Ford for extruded structural parts, 
we are now also producing parts for the heavy-duty F-250 and F-350.
Nominations, the industry term for 
new contracts, are the lifeblood of 
our business because they generate 
steady demand throughout the lifetime of the vehicle model/platform, 
frequently for seven years or more. During 2015, we again won a wide 
range of nominations, which led 
to our decision to invest in a new 
manufacturing facility in Bartow County, Georgia, further rolling out 
our strategy of working in partnership 
with automakers, by being close to their assembly plants.
We also decided to partner with 
Can Art, a Canadian company, to 
build a new press in Lakeshore, 
Ontario, Canada, near the US border and Detroit. 
Closely modeled on our Singen facility 
in Germany, this press will exclusively produce our new advanced patented 
high-strength alloys.This partnership, which combines the 
strengths of Constellium and Can Art, 
is expected to enable us to engineer 
and produce new higher strength, lighter weight, advanced components 
for our automotive customers, while 
securing our supply source. 
Finally, we announced a €22.5 million 
investment at our site in Decin, Czech Republic, which is the European leader 
in hard alloy extrusions, particularly 
for the automotive sector. The site is increasing its casting, extrusion and fabrication capacity to meet the rising 
demand from automakers for specialty 
hard alloy extrusions.  Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015 25
Business unit perspectives (continued)  
We supply high-strength 
aluminium structural 
parts for the lightweight 
Ford-150, the world’s best selling vehicle.
Governance in focus
Governance  
in focusOn the following pages, we detail our approach to   
how Constellium is directed and controlled. We include 
information on our Board and its members as well  
as the various committees and policies which facilitate  
the effective management of the business.
Constellium University Technology Center (UTC) at Brunel University  
London – a center of excellence for automotive structural components 
Our partnership with Brunel University 
London expanded in 2015, with the 
Constellium UTC opening its doors in April 
2016. This one-of-a-kind, industrial-scale 
center is expected to reduce development 
times of the advanced aluminium alloys 
required for the continued lightweighting 
of automotive structural components by at least 50%. We will then transfer those alloys and processes to our plants at high speed and 
with minimal risk. The UTC will also attract 
new international talent and develop the 
scientists and engineers of the future through 
a fellowship program for PhD students and 
post-doctoral fellows.
For more information  
 see page 42Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201527 26
Governance in focus
Our Committees
Function:
Our Board of Directors has determined  
that at least one member is an “audit 
committee financial expert” as defined 
by the SEC and also meets the additional 
criteria for independence of audit committee members set forth in Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under 
the Exchange Act. 
The principal duties and responsibilities  
of the Audit Committee include overseeing 
and monitoring the following: 
 –our financial reporting process and internal 
control system; 
 –the integrity of our consolidated financial statements; 
 –the independence, qualifications and performance of our independent registered 
public accounting firm; 
 –the performance of our internal 
audit function; 
 – our related party transactions; and 
 –our compliance with legal, ethical and 
regulatory matters. Function:
The principal duties and responsibilities of  
the Remuneration Committee include: 
 –to review, evaluate and make 
recommendations to the full Board of 
Directors regarding our compensation 
policies and establish performance-based incentives that support our long-term goals, objectives and interests; 
 –to review and approve the compensation of 
 
our Chief Executive Officer, all employees who  
report directly to our Chief Executive Officer  
and other members of our senior management; 
 –to review and make recommendations to the  
Board of Directors with respect to our incentive and equity-based compensation plans; 
 –to set and review the compensation of 
 
and reimbursement policies for members  
of the Board of Directors; and
 – to provide oversight concerning selection of 
officers, management succession planning, 
expense accounts, indemnification and 
insurance matters, and separation packages.
Board meetings in 2015
In 2015 the Board of Directors 
reviewed matters including:
 –reports from the Board’s Committees;
 – reports from the Chief Executive Officer 
(including Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) and M&A activity);
 –approval of the 2014 Annual Accounts;
 – approval of filing of Form 20-F  
with the SEC;
 –approval of the draft agenda for  
the Constellium General Meeting  
of Shareholders of June 11, 
2015, including nomination of 
Non -Executive Directors;
 –finance reports;
 – approval of the Wise Metals integration;
 –  reports from the business units  
(on any major projects); and
 – review of 2016 budget.342
68
9 75 1
1 Richard B. Evans* 
Chairman  
Mr. Evans has served as Chairman of our Board 
since December 2012 and as a member of our 
Board of Directors since January 2011. 2 Pierre Vareille
Chief Executive Officer  
Mr. Vareille has served as Chief Executive 
Officer of Constellium and as a member of our 
Board of Directors since March 2012. 3 Michiel Brandjes* 
Mr. Brandjes has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014. 
4 Philippe Guillemot*
Mr. Guillemot has served as a member of our Board of Directors since May 2013.  5 Peter F. Hartman*
Mr. Hartman has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014.6 Guy Maugis*
Mr. Maugis has served as a member of our Board of Directors since January 2011.
7 John Ormerod* 
Mr. Ormerod has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014.8 Werner P . Paschke* 
Mr. Paschke has served as a member of our Board of Directors since May 2013.9 Lori A. Walker*
Ms. Walker has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014.
For full biographies visit 
www.constellium.com*Independent Director under NYSE listing standardsRemuneration Committee
Members: On December 31, 2015, the Remuneration 
Committee consisted of two Directors:  
Peter F. Hartman Chair  
Richard B. Evans
Nominating/Corporate  
Governance Committee
Members: 
On December 31, 2015, the Nominating/
Corporate Governance Committee 
consisted of two Directors:Richard B. Evans  Chair  
Michiel BrandjesAudit Committee
Members: 
On December 31, 2015, the Audit Committee consisted of five
 Independent Directors 
under the NYSE requirements:  
Werner P. Paschke  Chair  
Philippe Guillemot  
Guy Maugis  
John Ormerod  
Lori A. WalkerDirector independence 
We maintain a one-tier Board of 
Directors consisting of an Executive 
Director and Non-Executive 
Directors (each a ‘Director’). Under Dutch law, the Board of 
Directors is responsible for the 
policy-making and management of the company. The Non-Executive 
Directors supervise and provide 
guidance to the Executive Director.
As a foreign private issuer under 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules, we are 
not required to have Independent 
Directors on our Board of Directors, except to the extent that our Audit 
Committee is required to consist 
of Independent Directors. 
However, our Board of Directors 
has determined that, under current NYSE listing standards regarding 
independence (which we are not 
currently subject to), and taking into account any applicable committee standards, Messrs. Evans, 
Brandjes, Guillemot, Hartman, 
Maugis, Ormerod, Paschke and Ms. Walker are Independent Directors. 
Function:
The principal duties and responsibilities 
of the Nominating/Corporate Governance 
Committee include: 
 –to establish criteria for Board and Committee 
membership;
 –to recommend to our Board of Directors proposed nominees for election to the Board of Directors and for membership on 
committees of our Board of Directors; and
 –to make recommendations to our Board 
of Directors regarding Board governance 
matters and practices. 
Martha Brooks  (not pictured) was appointed on November 30, 2015 as a Special Advisor to 
the Board of Directors. The Board expects to put forward the nomination of Ms. Brooks as  
a Non-Executive Director at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held in June 2016.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the management  
of the Company, the general conduct of the Company’s business  
and its corporate governance structure. The Non-Executive Directors 
supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director, who is 
entrusted with the day-to-day management of the Company.Our Board members
Board members visit our 
technology center and sites
Our Board of Directors carry out site visits 
as part of a program which enables them to 
gain additional and first-hand insight into 
our people, expertise, products, processes and technologies. Between December 2014 and April 2015 Board members visited 
C-TEC, Gottmadingen, Issoire, Neuf-Brisach 
and Singen in Europe and Ravenswood, Muscle Shoals and Van Buren in the US. 
Business and sustainability  
performance report 201529
Governance in focus
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015 28
Code of Conduct 
Our Worldwide Code of Employee 
and Business Conduct sets out the 
standard of behavior we expect from 
our employees. The Code governs the way Constellium acts in business, 
and how we expect our business 
partners, customers and suppliers to behave. It applies to all Constellium 
employees, subject to applicable 
local law. 
Compliance with the Code is  
essential to preserving and enhancing 
the Company’s reputation as a 
responsible corporate citizen, and 
ultimately, to maximizing shareholder value. For suppliers, we have 
developed an ad hoc Code of Conduct 
which is also available on our website.Whistleblower policy
We have implemented a whistleblower policy to foster an 
environment where our employees 
can act without fear of retaliation and report wrongdoing or suspected 
wrongdoing or irregularities of a 
financial, accounting, banking or corruption nature in Constellium  
to a reporting official. To facilitate this reporting, we have established an external hotline in all the countries 
and languages we have operations in.
Insider Trading policy
We have an Insider Trading policy 
which sets out the restrictions on 
trading in Constellium securities  
and the use of inside information.Business Governance
Function:
 –reviews all strategic issues and evaluates 
all significant proposed acquisitions or divestments, financial restructuring, 
alliances and strategic partnerships; 
 –develops and monitors implementation  
of key strategic, financial, investment  
and organizational decisions; 
 –controls the execution of the five-year  
plan and of the budget; 
 – reviews reports and proposals made by  
the Operations Committee to evaluate its  
economic and financial consequences; and
 – as and when required, submits reports, 
proposals and recommendations on all matters within its scope of responsibility  
to the Board of Directors.Function:
 –develops and implements the operational business decisions, as defined by management and the Board of Directors; 
 –monitors the implementation and progress 
of significant operational projects;
 –monitors the execution of the budget,  
and in particular the Free Cash Flow 
generation of the business; and
 –submits reports, proposals and recommendations on all matters  
relating to the operations to the  
Executive Committee.
1 Pierre Vareille
Chief Executive Officer2 Peter Basten
Vice President, Strategy  
and Business Development3 Marc Boone
Vice President, Human Resources
5 Béatrice Charon
Vice President, Business Planning6 Didier Fontaine
Chief Financial Officer7 Ingrid Jörg
President, Aerospace and Transportation business unit
9 Simon Laddychuk
Vice President and Chief Technical Officer10  Jeremy Leach
Vice President and Group General Counsel11 Yves Mérel
Vice-President, EHS and Lean Transformation
13 Paul Warton
President, Automotive Structures  
and Industry business unit4 Nicolas Brun
Vice President, Communications
8 Arnaud Jouron
President, Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products business unit
12  Vittorio Rossetti
Chief Information Officer1310
49
51
86
12
32 711
For full biographies visit 
www.constellium.comOperations Committee
 –Chief Executive Officer
 –Business unit Presidents
 –Chief Financial Officer
 –Vice President, Strategy and Business Development
 –Vice President, Human Resources
Leadership in action 
Our CEO and business unit Presidents regularly undertake site visits to 
demonstrate their full commitment to our 
EHS and Lean initiatives. In 2015:
CEO:  12 plant visits 
BU Presidents:  40 plant visits
 For more information  
see page 45Executive Committee
 –Chief Executive Officer
 –Business unit Presidents
 –Chief Financial Officer
 –Vice President, Strategy and 
Business Development
 –Vice President, Human Resources
 –Vice President and Group General Counsel
 –Vice President, Communications
 –Vice President and Chief Technical Officer
 –Vice President, EHS and Lean Transformation
 –Chief Information Officer
 –Vice President, Business Planning
Our leadership team
Our Executive Committee focuses on our strategy, commercial   
developments, program execution, financial and competitive 
program, organizational development and Group-wide policies.Executive Committee30Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015
Sustainability in focus 31Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015
Our Sustainability Council
The role of our Sustainability Council is to ensure that 
sustainability is fully integrated into our business in line 
with stakeholders’ expectations.Managing sustainability
Our Sustainability Council
Founded in 2012, our Sustainability 
Council is a formal body responsible 
for defining and updating our 
sustainability policy and linking this to the overall Constellium strategy. 
It includes 12 representatives 
from every area of our business, in recognition of our view of 
sustainability as a collective agenda.
 “Participation in the 
Constellium Sustainability 
Council allows me to help 
shape the future of our Company, our communities 
and environments.”
Susanne Dock  
Human Resources  
Business Partner
The Council meets four times a 
year, including one meeting with the Executive Committee of Constellium, 
to recap actions and decide on 
future priorities.
Responsibilities of the  
Sustainability Council include:
 –defining a sustainability vision and 
setting targets for the Constellium 
Group and its business units;
 –defining Key Performance  
Indicators (KPIs) to be tracked  
on a regular basis;
 –providing support on achieving KPIs;
 –guaranteeing accurate disclosure of sustainability data;
 –ensuring alignment with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP) and  
United Nations Global Compact 
(UNGC); and
 –launching specific programs in coordination with business units such as employee training, 
supplier assessments and 
recycling projects.
 
 “Participating in Constellium’s 
Sustainability Council is 
a unique opportunity to 
consider value creation in a context that extends beyond 
financial reporting.”
Frédéric Dunod  
Director, External  
Reporting and  
Investor Relations
Key discussions and outcomes 
in 2015:
 –the review of 2015 results and approval  
of 2020 targets;
 –the contribution to new developments at 
the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative;
 –the launch and expansion of a responsible 
sourcing policy;
 –the Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) and the Mass Flow Analysis (MFA) we will 
conduct; and
 –the implementation of a training module 
for all sales people.
The issues the Council aims to 
tackle in 2016 are: 
 –implementing 2020 targets;
 –establishing a greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions target;
 –managing the newly relaunched Energy 
Network; and
 –further implementing the responsible 
supply chain policy.
Sustainability in focus
Sustainability  
in focusHere we provide details on our sustainability commitments and targets, our material issues and how we engage with 
our stakeholders. We also publish an interview with the 
Executive Director of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) and report our progress and ambitions in the key areas of products, people, operations and responsible behavior.
Council members
Ingrid JörgPresident, Aerospace and  
Transportation and Chairwoman  
of the Sustainability Council 
Catherine Athènes
Sustainability Council Leader  
and Director, Marketing, Packaging  
and Automotive Rolled Products 
Olivier Néel
Manager, Sustainability
Laura Berneri
Director, External Communications 
Karl Butz
Environment Health and Safety Director, 
Muscle Shoals
Béatrice Charon
Vice President, Business Planning 
Susanne Dock
Human Resources Business Partner 
Frédéric Dunod
Director, External Reporting  
and Investor Relations 
Sophia Elasri
Manager, Strategic Purchasing Energy Procurement 
Rovertos Gross
Director, Strategy, Automotive Structures and Industry 
Guy-Michel Raynaud
Director, Technology 
Didier Vasner
Group Environment Manager
 Business and sustainability  
performance report 201533 32
Sustainability in focusBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015
Looking back…
 Products
Enhance the environmental  
benefits of our products
 People
Ensure our people are safe,  
skilled, motivated and engaged
 Operations
Minimize the impact of  
our operations
 Responsible  
 business
Manage our  
business in  
an ethical and  
responsible wayOur sustainability targets
We have evaluated our past performance and set new goals and 
targets for 2020 that will help us progress towards becoming a 
more sustainable business across our four key focus areas.Altogether more sustainableIn 2012 we established our strategic 
direction for sustainability at 
Constellium across four key pillars, 
including a series of commitments and targets for each. This year these 
commitments and targets almost all 
draw to a close. Here we evaluate our progress against these 2015 targets, and 
introduce our new 2020 targets 
that will help us progress towards becoming a more sustainable 
business across our four key 
focus areas.Performance key:
 Achieved
 On track
 Partially achieved
 Revised 
 Missed
We will… Our targets 2016–2020
Increase end-of-life 
(EOL) recycling of  
aluminium products80% beverage can recycling rate by 2020 in Europe
Work within the industry and with our 
stakeholders to increase the beverage can recycling rate in the US
Increase customer satisfactionEach business unit to carry out a customer satisfaction survey every two years
Continue to innovate Target improvements in our innovation Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
We will… Our targets 2016–2020
Increase safety 
at workReduce our RCR every year by 10%
A maximum of four serious injuries a 
year by 2020
Be in the first industry quartile in terms 
of best safety results
Increase employee  
satisfactionSix-point increase in overall employee 
satisfaction by 2020, from a 2014 baseline
Strengthen our  
communitiesAt least one community action per site every year
We will… Our targets 2016–2020
Reduce landfilling  
of our production  
wasteReduce landfilled waste coming from 
production by 10%, including Muscle 
Shoals (vs. 2015)
Further improve energy efficiency10% energy efficiency improvement by 2020, including Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015)
We will… Our targets 2016–2020
Gain ASI certification Have at least one site ASI certified by 2020 
(based on the assumption that there will be 
a certification scheme in place)
Ensure responsible  
purchasing100% of key suppliers and those suppliers initially assessed as high risk evaluated 
or audited according to UNGC principles 
by 2020
We said we would… Our targets 2012–2015 Our performance in 2015
Maximize recycling rates of our products, including after the end of their useful life75% beverage can recycling rate in Europe by 2015 The latest data available is for 2013 which shows another improvement over 2012 with 71.3% vs. 69.5% for the  
 
previous year 
Continuously innovate and offer lighter, safer and infinitely recyclable solutionsAll major new innovation projects to undergo Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) by 2015
10% of sales from innovative products by 2015Achieved: 100% 
All new innovation projects underwent a sustainability  
checklist, with LCAs being carried out when indicated as  
appropriate by the checklist  
 
 
Achieved: 13.3%   
We said we would… Our targets 2012–2015 Our performance in 2015
Protect the safety and health of our employees, contractors 
and visitors as a top priority60% improvement in Recordable Case Rate (RCR)* by 2014
No serious injuries in 2015Reduction of 20% of the RCR. vs. 2014   
(including Muscle Shoals facility)   
Constellium’s RCR is 3.5 times lower than the aluminium industry average  
calculated by European Aluminium and 5.5 times lower than the  
industry average of the US Bureau of Labor statistics (2014 figures)Seven serious injuries in 2015 (including Muscle Shoals facility)  
Strive to enhance employee 
engagement and development50% improvement in employee contributions by 2014
75% participation rate in the employee survey in 2014
Six-point improvement in employee satisfaction rate 
in 2014 vs. 2012As stated in our 2014 report:
60% improvement in employee contribution by 2014  
75% participation rate in 2014 employee survey  
Two-point improvement in employee satisfaction in 2014   
We said we would… Our targets 2012–2015 Our performance in 2015
Reduce landfilled 
production waste75% total landfill reduction by 2020 Due to a number of factors including the  acquisition of the  
Muscle Shoals plant, this target had to be revised  
Optimize the use of natural  
resources, especially energy10% decrease in energy consumption per processed  
unit by 2015We reached the 10% target one year early, in 2014. However, 2015  
saw a slight decrease in energy efficiency. In total, we achieved with legacy Constellium a 9% reduction by 2015 from a 2010 baseline 
Prevent and minimize  
environmental impactsMajor European sites achieving ISO 50001 certification 
by 2015As planned, we have certified all our major European sites to  
ISO 50001: Burg, Crailsheim, Decin, Issoire, Landau, Neuf-Brisach,  
Singen and Le Valais, representing almost half of our sites  
We said we would… Our targets 2012–2015 Our performance in 2015
Subscribe to the highest 
levels of transparency 
and accountability  
and commit to develop company and industry 
sustainability programs
Promote the adoption 
and implementation of 
sustainability policies by our suppliers and contractors100% of key suppliers joining United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC) by 2015More than half of key suppliers are signatories of the UNGC  
Implementation of a responsible supply chain policy  
Constellium was a founding member of the Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative (ASI) in 2012 and we have played an active role   
in its development as an independent organization (see pages 36–37 for more information on the ASI)Looking forward to 2020…
*  Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious 
injuries, lost time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments per 1 million hours worked. Project contractors and visitors have been 
systematically included in serious injuries statistics since 2008. Before that, 
only ‘extended’ contractors, such as canteen and security staff were includedBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 201535 34
Sustainability in focusBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015
Our key materiality-related issues
Aspects Identified issues Impact boundaries
Products
Products and services Customer satisfaction Primary impacts within and outside Constellium
Develop products with environmental benefits Primary impacts within and outside Constellium
Innovation Primary impacts within and outside Constellium
Recycling Increase external recycling activities Primary impacts outside Constellium
Increase internal recycling activities Primary impacts within and outside Constellium
People
Health and safety Ensure safety at work Primary impacts within Constellium
Reduce psycho-social risks Primary impacts within Constellium
Reduce use of harmful substances (SVHC) 1Primary impacts within Constellium
Training and education Develop training and empowerment Primary impacts within Constellium
People engagement Improve employee satisfaction Primary impacts within and outside Constellium
Operations
Effluents and waste Prevent pollution from operations Primary impacts within and outside Constellium
Reduce waste from operations Primary impacts within and outside Constellium
Energy and emissions Improve energy efficiency of operations Primary impacts within Constellium
Reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Primary impacts outside Constellium
Responsible business
Ethical business  
practicesPromote and enforce ethical business practices Primary impacts within and outside Constellium
Engage suppliers in sustainability performance Primary impacts outside Constellium
Economic performance Increase economic performance Primary impacts within and outside Constellium
1 ‘Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC)’, as defined in the European Union REACH regulationIn summary
Who are our key stakeholders?
 –Academic institutions
 –Board of Directors
 –Communities
 –Customers
 –Employees 
 –Employee representatives
 –Non-Governmental  
Organizations
 –Policy makers
 –Regulators
 –Shareholders and investors
 –Suppliers
 –Sustainability organizations
How do we engage with them?
We engage with our 
stakeholders in a wide range 
of ways, from meetings 
and business activities to membership and participation 
in organizations. The materiality 
assessment exercise we carried out in 2014 has led to 
a more systematic process 
of stakeholder engagement. We also actively engage with 
stakeholders across the US, 
reflecting our growing footprint in the region.
 For a complete list of all the 
organizations that we engage  
with please see page 76We interact with many stakeholders across the aluminium 
value chain. Proactive engagement with stakeholders helps us  
to govern our business in line with their expectations and needs. Encouraging dialogEngaging with our stakeholders
Materiality guides our approach to sustainability by helping us to identify and manage the issues that are most likely to impact the 
business and our stakeholders.Managing what mattersOur materiality assessment
Determining our  
materiality issues
During 2014, we undertook a 
materiality assessment to identify the 
issues that matter most to Constellium 
and our stakeholders. Based on surveys and regular engagement with 
our internal and external stakeholders, 
we identified a total of 17 issues that form the basis of the potential topics 
covered in this report. 
Read more about our approach and 
the boundaries of our material issues 
in our Business and sustainability 
performance report 2014.What we learned
The exercise showed good alignment between the sustainability 
expectations of our internal and 
external stakeholders, and it confirmed that our four focus areas 
of products, people, operations and 
responsible business, remain the most relevant for our business.
The exercise also enabled us to 
identify 17 topics within these four 
areas (see the table below), that we 
will focus on as we look ahead, and evolve and develop our approach 
to sustainability. 
 Two additional issues, that did not 
emerge as highly material, are also of interest to us, namely diversity 
and local communities. These topics 
have been communicated within the People pillar of this report. 
For a more detailed overview  go online
www.constellium.com/sustainability/
responsible-business/materiality-assessment
Industry associations
The Aluminum 
Association (AA)
We are actively involved on the 
sustainability committee of AA. 
We contributed to the publication of 
recycling data for beverage cans, which included post-consumer recycling rates as well as industry recycling rates. 
Industry associations
Beverage Can Makers 
Europe (BCME)
We work with BCME to raise beverage  
can recycling rates notably through the 
Every Can Counts initiative.
Customers
Verband der 
Automobilindustrie (VDA)
We regularly engage with Original 
Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) 
through the VDA, the German automotive 
industry body, with a particular focus 
on alloy quality standards. This ensures 
that as new alloys and solutions are developed, they continue to support 
product standardization.
Industry associations
European Aluminium (EA)
We hosted EA’s autumn meeting in our  
plant in Neuf-Brisach (see page 59 for details), and also participated in the 
active engagement of key stakeholders such as the European Commission. For example, at a working session with 
the European Commission on growth and 
competitiveness, the Strategy Director of 
our Aerospace and Transportation business 
unit explained the role of aluminium suppliers in the aerospace value chain.Investors
Analyst field trip
In 2015, we organized an analyst visit to Muscle Shoals in order to update 
attendees on our automotive strategy. 
The visit included a plant tour as well as a Q&A session.
Industry associations
Can Manufacturers 
Institute (CMI)
As a member of CMI, we support the 
Recycling Partnership – a non-profit 
organization that aims to increase 
participation in local curbside recycling programs nationwide.
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201537 36
Sustainability in focus
Participants often have a lot of 
individual experience and expertise, 
so there’s a cross-education 
element to these processes that adds real value.
How will the ASI benefit 
member companies 
and organizations? 
For upstream companies, the ASI 
provides the opportunity to become 
involved in a process that sets 
standards for sustainability in the 
global aluminium value chain. In the 
future the certification program will give members the ability to 
demonstrate that they implement 
responsible practices.
For downstream companies that 
use aluminium, the ASI provides 
the opportunity to be part of a whole value chain initiative and to 
demonstrate practices towards 
responsible sourcing and stewardship of aluminium in the products that 
they design and produce.
In the future, certification will give 
the opportunity for companies that 
use aluminium to demonstrate 
responsible sourcing and stewardship 
around their products that contain aluminium. We greatly encourage civil society organizations to participate in the ASI. We are strongly focused on 
developing an initiative that achieves 
real impact on the ground socially and environmentally, and we want civil 
society voices to be at the table for 
that process.
How do you see 
Constellium’s value  
in this initiative?
Constellium was one of the original  
14 companies that first created 
the ASI as a project under the 
International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources 
(IUCN). The Company has played 
a leading role in advancing sustainability in the global aluminium 
value chain and no doubt will continue 
to encourage its partners and peers to join it on that journey.In the future, achieving certification 
will enable Constellium to demonstrate its responsible 
production, sourcing and stewardship 
approaches towards aluminium.
Where will the ASI  
be in five years?
My vision is that the ASI will have a thriving certification program 
for a diverse and growing global 
membership. We want to see 
sustainability and human rights 
principles embedded in the global aluminium value chain and to see 
companies invest in and reward 
responsible production, sourcing and stewardship.
 “We want to see  
sustainability and  
human rights principles 
embedded in the global aluminium value chain.”
Dr. Fiona Solomon  
Executive Director, Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative
What is the ASI?
The ASI is the result of producers, 
users and stakeholders coming 
together to build consensus  
on responsible aluminium. 
The initiative is aiming to build  
an independent third-party certification program for the responsible production, sourcing  
and stewardship of aluminium. 
The key issues for aluminium include 
biodiversity and mining, greenhouse 
gas emissions, indigenous peoples’ rights, key wastes at specific 
processing stages such as bauxite 
residue and spent pot lining, as well as material stewardship and the 
broader circular economy questions. 
The ASI is seeking to drive best practices on each of these.What progress have 
you made?
Since 2015 we’ve been primarily 
developing the ASI governance 
model for the organization as an 
incorporated entity, culminating in the adoption of a new Constitution 
at the 2016 inaugural Annual General 
Meeting. We have now held the first elected Board and Standards 
Committee meetings under this new 
governance model, and convened an Indigenous Peoples Advisory Forum 
for ASI.
In addition, we’ve started documenting 
the key elements of the assurance 
model for the initiative. This includes things like how audits will take place, 
how member companies will prepare 
for those audits, who carries out the audits and what gets reported 
publicly, as well as what claims 
can be made about certification. We’ve also been working on a Chain 
of Custody standard that will have 
further public consultation over the next year or so, that will help to 
support approaches to responsible 
production and sourcing.What are the next key 
milestones and challenges?
The priorities now are to continue 
to progress all of the technical 
documentation that’s required for  
a working certification program.  
We will continue to roll out implementation of ASI’s governance 
model with committees and working groups to support the work of the 
Board and Standards Committee, 
and continue to grow membership and engagement with ASI across all 
stakeholder groups. 
The challenges are similar to all 
multi -stakeholder processes: 
managing expectations, building 
consensus and having people work 
together to articulate a common 
vision. We have a lot of work to do  
as a group of stakeholders.Launched in 2012, the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative  
(ASI) aims to foster greater sustainability and transparency 
throughout the aluminium industry. Dr. Fiona Solomon, 
who became its first Executive Director in March  
2015, explains the ASI’s remit and the progress she  
is targeting in the years ahead. 
A full video of the interview can  be seen at 
www.constellium.com/media/multimedia-libraryFostering greater 
sustainability in the 
aluminium value chainIn focus: Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 
 “Our aim is to build an 
independent third-party 
certification program for 
the responsible production, sourcing and stewardship 
of aluminium.” “Our challenges include 
managing expectations, building consensus 
and having people work together to articulate a 
common vision.”
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201539 38
Sustainability in focus
We are committed to developing, producing and selling 
sustainable products that meet our customers’ needs now 
and in the future. We will achieve these aims by maximizing 
the recycling rates of our products, including at the end of their useful lives. At the same time we will continuously innovate in order to offer lighter, safer and infinitely recyclable solutions.Improving  
performanceMaking our products more sustainable
Customer satisfaction
We continue to work hard to increase 
satisfaction levels, notably through 
the application of our comprehensive 
Lean Transformation program which will ensure we provide our customers 
with high-quality products, on time 
and in the correct quantities. 
We have committed to regularly 
monitoring satisfaction ratings across all customers – one of our targets 
for 2020 is that each business unit 
carries out a customer satisfaction survey every two years.
Increasing satisfaction rates
Extending our successful 
Lean approach
Since its launch in 2012, our Lean 
Transformation program has led 
to a demonstrable improvement in 
customer satisfaction, improving 
service and product quality by 
empowering people and making them accountable. Now we have 
launched Lean phase 2, which aims 
to make Lean longer, deeper and wider: longer, because it is a five-
year program; deeper, because it is 
being implemented at Autonomous Production Unit (APU) level; 
and wider because it embraces 
additional functions. 
For more information on Lean  
see pages 14–15  
 
Year of Just-in-Time 
Following our emphasis on quality 
in 2014 our Chief Executive Officer Pierre Vareille named 2015 the ‘Year of 
Just-in-Time’. Initiatives undertaken 
during 2014 and 2015 that related to these themes have helped us 
reduce the percentage of customer 
complaints by 60% and missed deliveries by 56%. 
Tracking levels of 
customer satisfaction
Following the survey across our 
Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products business in 2014, in 2015 
it was the turn of the Aerospace and 
Transportation business to gauge satisfaction levels. In total, 62 customer interviews  
were conducted in 15 countries  
over a five-week period. Interviews were primarily held  
with managers and project  
leaders from procurement functions as well as with general managers. 
Customers agreed that our product 
portfolio was aligned with their requirements and appreciated  
that we were transparent about  
our improvement programs. On the other hand, they expected improvements to the ways in which 
we manage the supply chain as  
well as claims.Looking ahead
 –Maintain our focus on Lean, 
which has now entered 
phase 2 and includes a focus 
on APUs and extension to additional functions
 –Maximize our flexibility, in line 
with 2016 being named the 
‘Year of Flexibility’
 –Implement frequent, safe, 
efficient, right-first-time equipment changeovers in 
order to produce small batches of products
 –Fulfill our commitment that 
each business unit must 
undertake a customer 
satisfaction survey every other year, with all business units to 
perform theirs in 2016 
Innovation
Innovation is a key focus for our 
business. We aim to fulfill the 
potential of aluminium and its 
alloys by developing new products that provide enhanced properties, 
including greater strength, 
lightness, durability and more efficient recycling. 
Making progress against KPIs
Recently developed products
Our innovation strategy continues 
to go from strength to strength. One of our KPIs tracks the 
contribution that recently developed 
products make to total sales: in 2015, 13.3% of sales were from 
innovative products, ahead of our 
target of 10%. This was due in particular to our performance in 
the automotive and transportation 
sectors as well as the roll-out of 
our  AIRWARE
® technology.In summary
Materiality coverage
 –Customer satisfaction
 –Develop products with 
environmental benefits 
 –Innovation
 –Increase external recycling activities
 –Increase internal recycling activities  2015 products targets
 –75% beverage can recycling rate in Europe by 2015
 –All major new innovation projects to undergo 
Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) by 2015
 –10% of sales from innovative products 
by 2015
2015 products performance 
 –The latest data available on the can recycling rate in Europe is for 2013. 
This shows another improvement over 2012 
with 71.3% vs. 69.5% for the previous year
 –We have 100% achieved our LCA target. All new innovation projects underwent a 
sustainability checklist, with LCAs being carried out when indicated as appropriate 
by the checklist
 –Achieved 13.3% of sales from innovative 
products in 2015
2020 products targets
 –80% beverage can recycling rate in 
Europe by 2020 
 –Work within the industry and with our 
stakeholders to increase the beverage 
can recycling rate in the US
 –Each business unit to carry out a customer satisfaction survey every two years
 –Target improvements in our innovation KPIs
New sawing center increases 
performance and safety 
New equipment is set to transform 
sawing capability and performance 
at our plant in Sierre, Switzerland. 
Currently in its production start-up phase, 
the new machine saws, turns profiles 
180°, deposits spacers and stacks – all 
without manual intervention. The stacks of 
profiles are then transferred on rail carts to the nearby packaging area and Truck 
Preparation Area (TPA).
This investment will make it possible to 
reduce the lead time of our products by two days while also significantly increasing 
the productivity of two presses – which 
will no longer be bottlenecked by the 
sawing process. The new machine will 
also enable us to implement pull flow 
from the TPA. These production and lead 
time improvements are accompanied by gains in quality because the traceability 
requirements of our rail customers are 
managed by the machine and the technical 
capability of the saw perfectly meets their 
needs. Improved safety is another key 
benefit: the machine will reduce the number 
of operations involving cranes, which means reduced risk for our operators.Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201541 40
Sustainability in focus
Looking ahead
 –Continue to invest in research 
and new technologies to 
allow the development of 
new products and solutions
 –Continue to work on enhanced 
material performance, notably through lightweighting initiatives
Environmental benefits 
of products
The increased use of aluminium is 
bringing significant environmental 
benefits to society – benefits which 
we enhance through our product portfolio and developments. 
We use specific tools such as LCAs 
to measure these benefits. We have achieved our target of ensuring that 
all new innovation projects undertake 
a sustainability checklist, with LCAs being performed where appropriate. 
In 2015 we continued to make good 
progress in conducting LCAs.
Evaluating the environmental 
performance of our products
We currently deploy two separate  
but complementary tools to check the 
environmental impacts and benefits of our products. During 2015, we 
achieved our target of assessing all 
new projects using one of these tools, as part of our innovation gate review 
process. This commitment  
will continue through 2016.
Sustainability check tool
During the innovation process,  
we use a sustainability check tool 
to make sure sustainability aspects (including environmental impacts  
and benefits) are taken into  
account when we decide whether  
or not to continue with a product  
or process development. Life Cycle Assessments
We use LCAs to identify ways 
to improve the environmental performance of existing products and 
those in development. During 2015 we 
continued with a number of initiatives covered in last year’s report, and 
extended the scope of LCAs to include 
two new projects.
Firstly, we expanded our car 
component assessments to include the extruded and machined parts 
used in Crash Management Systems 
(CMS). The results show that over a full life-cycle, the aluminium product 
produced significantly fewer GHG 
emissions than its steel counterpart. This is because the lightweighting 
properties of aluminium improve 
fuel consumption during the usage phase, while efficient recycling also 
recovers a significant part of the 
initial investment. 
CMS: How aluminium compares with steel kg CO 2 e
Aluminium 
by stageSteel 
by stageAluminium 
overallSteel 
overall
OverallMetal production Use
End-of-life200
150
100
50
-50
 New patents
The number of new patents reflects the success of our ongoing investments in Research & Technology (R&T). 
New patents underpin our drive to create successful new products and prepare the business for future developments. In 2015, we published 16 new patent families, an increase of four since 2014, and filed 18 new patent families, up from 
16 the previous year. We also validated 46 new Innovation Records, which is a measure we use internally to track new 
ideas. This represents an increase of six new innovations since 2014.
Key innovations in 2015
Market Product Innovations
Automotive HSA6 A new generation of high-strength alloys, HSA6 is the highest strength extruded 6xxx series alloy available on the market. Extra strength allows 
for lighter parts for automotive applications.
Environmental benefits:  car lightweighting delivers lower fuel consumption 
and associated CO
2 emissions. It also has excellent corrosion resistance.  
Surfalex® HF A new skin material for complex automotive parts, which provides superior 
formability in terms of deep drawing, hole expansion and stretch forming 
during the stamping process without compromising on design. Builds on the 
success of our established Surfalex® product. Surfalex® HF was nominated 
by the International OEM Advisory Board as ‘Automotive Engineering Expo 
Innovation Star 2015’. 
Environmental benefits:  car lightweighting delivers lower fuel consumption 
and associated CO 2 emissions.  
Aerospace AIRWARE® 2065 A new extrusion alloy for light extrusions such as fuselage stiffeners or seat 
tracks and heavy extrusions such as wing stringers. It has already been 
commercialized at our manufacturing facility in Montreuil-Juigné (France), 
with Issoire (France) soon to follow.
Environmental benefits:  aircraft lightweighting delivers lower fuel 
consumption and associated CO 2 emissions.  
Industry Dokima ™ & Dokima ™  
EnduranceAluminium alloy plates (produced by our Ravenswood and Sierre 
manufacturing facilities) for semi-conductors, flat screen displays and solar panel fabrication components. 
Environmental benefits:  increased lifespan due to extremely low 
contamination which saves on replacement costs. Low wafer rejection rate 
cuts waste and increases production efficiency. 
Packaging Aeral™ A new product which enables the production of aluminium aerosol cans by 
Drawn and Ironed (D&I) process which delivers a 30% mass savings compared to Impact Extrusion process, as well as faster processing speeds.
Environmental benefits:  up to 30% less material needed, which reduces the 
environmental footprint of the aerosol cans. 
Heat Exchanger Kool X™ A new solution for demanding heat exchanger applications, such as water 
charge air coolers and evaporators, providing an excellent combination of claddability, improved fatigue and corrosion resistance.
Environmental benefits: car lightweighting delivers lower fuel consumption 
and associated CO
2 emissions. In addition, reusing cooled exhaust gas in the 
combustion chamber increases engine efficiency, which contributes to lower 
levels of GHG emissions. Making our products more sustainable (continued)
Unique advantages, infinite opportunities
With its unique combination of strength and 
lightness, durability and recycling, aluminium 
has intrinsic environmental advantages over 
alternative materials such as steel.
Strength and lightness  
These qualities lead to enhanced 
performance during use, particularly through fuel savings, and are responsible 
for the growth of aluminium in the general 
transportation market – particularly the automotive segment.Wear and corrosion resistance  
The high durability of aluminium means that 
replacement products or components are not 
required so frequently. This in turn reduces the need for new products or components to be manufactured, together with the 
associated environmental impacts. 
Easy sorting and recycling  
Eddy current technology means that 
aluminium can be easily sorted and recycled, returning this valuable material to the starting point of the value chain where it can begin a 
new life.For more detail on our LCAs, visit our  
 website at www.constellium.com/
sustainability/life-cycle-of-aluminium
All of our key innovations are fully recyclable at the end of their life.
Aluminium alloy microstructure revealed after selective 
chemical dissolutionBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201543 42
Sustainability in focus
We also used an LCA to assess 
the impact of our new GRIPSTER™ 
treadplates for refrigerated trucks. 
This new product delivers improved environmental performance through 
an extended lifespan, due to better 
wear resistance, thereby avoiding the need for early part replacement. 
This LCA confirmed durability 
as a key aspect of our products’ environmental performance.
Looking ahead
 –Continue to carry out a sustainability check on all 
new projects
 –Widen the scope of products covered by LCAs, ensuring that 
they are carried out on all new major developments 
 –Continue our focus on innovation to develop new products that can deliver environmental 
benefits to our customers 
and society
Recycling
Infinite recyclability is one of aluminium’s key sustainability 
advantages over other materials. 
Recycling reduces the need for primary aluminium, and hence 
reduces waste production and 
resource depletion. It also reduces GHG emissions across a product’s  
life-cycle.The most recent industry figures  
show that in 2013 the beverage can 
recycling rate in Europe increased to 
71.3%, up from 69.5% the previous year. We are committed to developing 
and promoting recycling programs, 
through partnerships with other organizations as well as through  
our own initiatives.
Doubling our recycling capacity
Our acquisition of Wise Metals at  
the start of 2015 not only gave us 
an ideal platform to expand our 
presence in the fast-growing  
US marketplace, it also more than 
doubled our recycling capacity. 
Known as Element 13, the recycling 
facility at our Muscle Shoals plant is one of the largest recyclers of used 
beverage containers in the world. 
Every year our Muscle Shoals facility recycles around 14 billion used 
beverage cans – almost one in every 
six cans sold in the US.
This huge capacity, together with  
the plant’s capability to recycle 
products at their end-of-life (EOL) 
as well as scrap from customers, is 
helping us make significant progress on ‘closing the loop’ in beverage 
can recycling.
Building partnerships
While we work hard to develop  
our own recycling initiatives,  
we also believe that engaging in 
partnerships should play a key 
role in further developing the 
world’s ability to recycle products containing aluminium.These partnerships enable us to share the cost of projects while also 
helping us share ideas and skills, 
and engage with stakeholders from the entire aluminium value chain. 
Engaging other stakeholders is at the 
core of our sustainability approach ‘Altogether, more sustainable’. 
Our view is that working together with 
like-minded organizations will help create a range of common solutions.
Creating recycling initiatives in Research & Technology (R&T)
We are committed to improving the 
efficiency of recycling processes, and 
therefore further enhance metal yield. For example, we are exploring ways 
to separate and analyze batches of 
scrap to enable us to use them in the appropriate applications or alloys.
As part of this program, in 2015 we 
launched a dynamic Material flow 
analysis (MFA) tool which models 
flows from metal elaboration to a final product’s EOL and recycling. 
By taking account of production 
history and a product’s lifespan, our tool estimates aluminium flows at 
different stages. Using this data, the 
tool can identify when, how much and in what form the metal is going 
to become available for recycling.
Work is currently in progress to include 
details about alloy families in order to 
provide insight on the expected need for alloy separation, thus paving the way for much more efficient recycling 
of products in the future. Looking ahead
 –Continue to work with various stakeholders to further improve the overall 
aluminium recycling efficiency, particularly collection, sorting and re-melting
 –Continue to improve our own recycling processes
 –Partner with customers on closed loop recycling
 –Continue to use our MFA tool to determine future recycling flows Making our products more sustainable (continued)
Our recycling partnerships
La Boîte Boisson La Boîte Boisson brings together the main can and metal producers in France to promote and support the 
national can industry. In 2015, it celebrated the 80th anniversary of the aluminium can with a number of events and initiatives, including a short documentary on the history of the beverage can. 
Canibal We have installed Canibal machines (see 2014 Business and sustainability performance report) in our Paris headquarters and the Neuf-Brisach plant. In 2015, we collected the first data since installation, which showed that we saved 178kg of CO
2 and collected 4,500 beverage containers. 
CR3 We continue to participate in the CR3 program, which promotes scrap sorting, notably for car recycling  
(see page 42).
European Aluminium As active members of the European Aluminium Association, we supported the Circular Economy Package, an action plan adopted by the European Commission to stimulate Europe’s transition towards a circular economy. The plan aims to ‘close the loop’ of product life-cycles through greater recycling and re-use, and deliver benefits for both the environment and the economy. We have made constructive suggestions on the plan and will closely follow its implementation, country by country.
IRT M2P Following previous campaigns related to car shredding, IRT M2P analyzed aluminium-rich shredding fractions, with results presented at the International Automotive Recycling Congress in Berlin within a joint presentation with IRT M2P partners Derichebourg and ArcelorMittal. We used our mass flow analysis (MFA) tool (see below) to provide support and data to the PhD thesis undertaken by IRT M2P. 
Clean Sky The SENTRY program, explained in last year’s report and led by Aircraft manufacturer Dassault Aviation, concluded in 2015. The program involved Life Cycle Assessments of end-of-life aircraft fuselage panels, including standard and new generation alloys. The results were presented at the Aircraft Recycling Symposium in March 2016, with a contribution on recycling delivered by our Sustainability Manager, Olivier Néel. The SENTRY project was awarded the first prize at the CLEAN SKY forum 2016.
AMAP We engaged in the Advanced Metals and Processes (AMAP) program, a collaborative platform in the field of metal production and processing held at Aachen University. A specific area of work during 2015 concerned the modeling of furnace burners in order to improve process efficiency. 
Communicating the importance  
of end-of-life (EOL) recycling 
During the year we published a recycling 
brochure, as part of a communications 
campaign to increase awareness of  
recycling metrics and the importance of EOL 
recycling. Targeted at employees, business partners and other stakeholders including 
policymakers, NGOs and trade media, the 
brochure explains the role of EOL recycling and showcases our efforts to increase and improve recycling, including LCAs. 
This brochure can be downloaded from our  
website at the following address
Constellium University Technology Center (UTC) – a new driving force for innovation 
Being innovative and close to our customers is  
an important driving force for Constellium. 
For our automotive business, this strategy is 
breaking new ground at a university campus in 
West London. The Constellium University Technology 
Center (UTC) at Brunel University London is a 
center of excellence dedicated to the design, 
development and prototyping of aluminium 
alloys and automotive structural components. 
Featuring industrial size aluminium casting and extrusion equipment in its first phase, 
the Constellium UTC will provide a rapid 
prototyping capability. This will reduce 
development times by 50% for the advanced 
aluminium alloys that will enable the 
continued lightweighting of automotive 
structural components.The new alloy and process technologies will 
then be transferred to Constellium’s extrusion and automotive structures plants worldwide, 
thereby closing the gap between fundamental 
R&T and series production. With the new stronger alloy portfolio, Constellium is able to design, develop and deliver lightweight, high-
strength aluminium automotive structures 
and CMSs to help automakers improve fuel economy and reduce CO
2 emissions in order to 
meet more stringent regulations. These new 
developments, based on 6000-series alloys, 
also improve recyclability through their compositional compatibility with alloy grades in current usage. “Our team at CR3 (Center 
for Resource Recovery 
and Recycling), which 
is supported by C-TEC , Constellium’s technology 
center, has developed 
X-ray fluorescence (XRF) systems and laser-induced 
breakdown spectroscopy 
technologies to separate scrap. After the sorting 
process with XRF, which 
identifies the part by its chemistry, a signal is sent 
to pneumatic hammers 
that eject the part into a bin. It involves high-speed 
computing as all of this has 
to happen in nanoseconds.”
Diran Apelian  
Director of the Metals  
Processing Institute  
at Worcester Polytechnic  
Institute in Massachusetts  
and Lead of Center for  
Resource Recovery  
and Recycling
constellium.com/content/
download/7813/120379/version/3/file/
Constellium+-+recycling+brochure+-+october+2015.pdf
For more information  
see page 24Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201545 44
Sustainability in focus
In summary
Materiality coverage
 –Ensure safety at work
 –Reduce psycho-social risks
 –Reduce use of harmful substances 
(SVHC)
 –Develop training and empowerment
 –Improve employee satisfaction2015 people targets
 –60% improvement in the recordable case 
rate1 (RCR) by 2014
 –No serious injuries in 2015
 –50% improvement in employee contributions by 2014 
 –75% participation rate in the employee survey in 2014
 –Six-point improvement in employee satisfaction rate in 2014 versus 2012
2015 people performance 
 –Reduction of 20% in the RCR vs. 2014 (including Muscle Shoals facility) 
 –Seven serious injuries in 2015 (including Muscle Shoals facility)
Constellium’s RCR is 3.5 lower than the aluminium industry average calculated by 
European Aluminium and 5.5 times lower than the industry average of the US Bureau 
of Labor statistics (2014 figures)
 –60% improvement in employee 
contributions by 2014
 –75% participation rate in the 2014 
employee survey 
 –Two-point improvement in employee satisfaction in 2014
2020 people targets 
 –Reduce our RCR every year by 10%
 –A maximum of four serious injuries a year by 2020
 –Be in the first industry quartile in terms of best safety results
 –Six-point increase in overall employee 
satisfaction by 2020, from a 2014 baseline 
 –At least one community action per site every yearSupporting our people
Protecting the health and  
safety of our employees, 
contractors and visitors  
as a top priority
Our people are the single most important factor that drives 
our continued success. We are committed to supporting them 
at all times by: protecting their health and safety as well as 
that of contractors and visitors; and striving to further enhance employee engagement and development. 
We made good progress on safety 
over the last year. Our RCR1 
decreased from 3.65 to 2.86, a 
reduction of 20%, with these figures 
including our new operations at Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green 
and Changchun for the first time. 
However, despite this achievement we recognize that there remains 
much work to do – we experienced 
seven serious injuries during 2015 and this is clearly unacceptable.
We completed our 2015 safety 
program as planned and have 
identified new targets for 2020 to further improve performance.
Safety program and actions 
Behavior management
We have further improved our Leadership Safety Tours. Under this 
 
program, all our leaders – from senior managers to shift supervisors – interact 
with shop floor employees to promote 
safe behavior and to eliminate at risk behavior. Our target was to achieve a 
quality score of 85% but we surpassed 
it with 90%.
Training plays an important role in 
ensuring the safety of newcomers to 
the business. In 2015, we improved our programs for newcomers, including 
a reduction in the time between 
initial 
hiring and the completion 
of Environment, Health and Safety 
(EHS) training.
We use a structured problem-solving 
process known as 8D2 to investigate 
all recordable cases, high-potential 
near misses, high-potential first 
aid incidents and environmental events. During 2015, the number of 
8D investigations almost doubled, 
from 204 to 395.
We also introduced a number of 
new initiatives in 2015, including the implementation of our business unit (BU) President site visit program, in 
line with our desire to create more 
visible EHS leadership. Through this program, once a year, BU Presidents 
exclusively dedicate at each site a full 
day to EHS matters.In addition, we have introduced a five-minute safety talk at the beginning 
of each daily site meeting to further 
embed our safety culture. Every day, the team leader presents a new topic 
to the operating team – for more 
details see the THANK YOU AWARDS on page 48.
Risk management
Risk management helps us identify 
and prevent incidents, and in 2015 we developed, or expanded, several 
key initiatives. For example, we 
have created a standard Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment, 
Risk Controls (HIRARC) tool to track 
risk reduction. Implementation is currently in progress and we expect 
the tool to begin improving risk 
management in 2016.
We have also developed a tool for 
our Standard Operating Procedures 
(SOPs). This tool helps to analyze the work step-by-step in detail and 
produce a standard procedure to guide 
safe working. With no differences between work practices from crew 
to crew, we will be able to eliminate 
unsafe practices and practices which could lead to quality issues.The Contained Hazards program highlighted in last year’s report has 
been fully rolled out. This program 
encourages employees to contain and report hazards before they 
cause incidents. We saw a 2% 
month -on-month increase in 
employees engaging with this 
program during 2015.
During the year we continued to focus 
on a wide range of risks, including 
a program to introduce hands-free 
casting to protect operators in the event of a molten metal explosion. 
Our overall aim is that slab casting 
units work in hands-free mode and we 
successfully introduced five of such 
units in 2015. 
Slips, trips and falls are frequent 
causes of accidents and are therefore another ongoing area of focus, 
and we are now in the process 
of implementing best practices. Furthermore, we produced a new 
video to help prevent risks associated 
with the man-machine interface. The video, which is available in four 
languages via the intranet or on 
DVD, is used for training employees at plants.
Global safety management
All our sites are integrated into our 
EHS FIRST  system. This ensures 
that we are able to develop reliable 
benchmarks and share best 
practices. In 2015, we achieved 
good progress on the integration of the Muscle Shoals plant into our EHS 
organization. See the improvement 
through integration case study above.
We are committed to using our 
experiences and skills to support the 
wider industry and participated in the 2015 biennial European Aluminium 
safety workshop, sharing methods 
and successes.
1  RCR measures the number of fatalities, serious 
injuries, lost time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments per 1 million hours worked. 
Project contractors and visitors have been systematically 
included in serious injuries statistics since 2008. Before that, only ‘extended’ contractors, such as canteen and security staff were included
2  8D is a problem-solving method structured as a step-by-
step road map to truly understand the problem, its root 
causes and to develop robust and sustainable solutions
Improvement through integration
During the year, we began to integrate 
the Constellium approach to EHS into 
processes at the Muscle Shoals plant in 
the US, following its acquisition in 2015. We have introduced a number of proven Constellium initiatives and are pleased to 
report that the Recordable Case Rate for the 
plant has reduced by 54%, compared with 2014. Our actions during the year included 
work to implement six critical directives 
and three tools, as well as the introduction of Safety Tours, of which 2,514 have been completed so far. In addition, compliance 
with our Man Machine Interface initiative is 
in progress and we have also provided two-day EHS FIRST  Leadership Training courses 
to 164 supervisors.
1 Please see footnote on page 45
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201547 46
Sustainability in focus
Improving safety
We continually strive to improve safety 
performance and work hard to protect our 
people. Although we are never complacent, 
we are pleased to see that our initiatives are 
driving steady progress. 
Zero recordable cases is a reality in many 
Constellium plants. Valais, Montreuil-Jugné and Changchung reached ‘zero recordable 
cases’ for 0.5 million hours worked. Decin, 
Gottmadingen and Ussel celebrated their two million hours worked without any 
recordable cases.
Well-being
We continued to implement our 
program to prevent stress-related 
illness at our Issoire site and 
C-TEC center, and this has been complemented by specific programs 
at other sites. For example, at Neuf-
Brisach we carried out a survey to evaluate risk associated with psycho-
social issues and stress. The plant has 
since appointed an external specialist organization to create a program to 
help us mitigate these risks. 
Reducing environmental risk 
Standardized environmental analysis 
While we cannot eliminate 
environmental risk entirely, we can influence the likelihood of an 
environmental event by improving 
our preventive controls. 
Our new environmental risks tool aims 
to unify the methodology we follow 
to analyze environmental issues. It ensures that all on-site activities are 
covered and appropriately assessed to 
define significant impacts and priorities. 
This enables each site to implement 
actions to reduce its environmental risks.
In addition, the tool helps us to 
identify emergency situations, prepare actions to prevent accidents 
or mitigate their impact.Employee guide for emergency situations 
The new employee guide is based on 
observations from drills carried out in 
2014 as well as in-depth knowledge 
of our specialist teams across the business. The first emergency and 
crisis management guideline has 
now been prepared and will be implemented in 2016.
Reducing the use of 
harmful substances
During 2015 we removed more 
than 20% of substances of very 
high concern (SVHC) from our operations. This is part of our ongoing 
commitment to minimize risks and 
exposure for our people and is an important part of our EHS policy.
Labor
Strive to enhance 
employee engagement  
and development
Training and empowerment
Our training programs address our 
key strategic issues such as Lean, 
growth and innovation. While we 
have a strong training focus at a local level, in 2015 we launched our 
Constellium University initiative to 
deliver corporate programs that focus on broader strategic and company 
culture issues that are relevant to 
all of our sites around the world. Training delivered by Constellium 
University targets both new joiners 
as well as current employees, with a strong focus on Lean as well as on 
developing functional competencies.
Constellium University for newcomers
Onboarding seminar
For professional new joiners, we have 
created a Constellium University 
program that aims to integrate them quickly and effectively into our 
Company and ways of working.
Participants of first onboarding seminar engage in 
group dynamics
In our first onboarding seminar 
participants learned about our 
mission and values as well as our 
products and customers, and also took part in a dedicated training 
session on aluminium. EHS, our first 
and foremost priority, was a key aspect of the program, along with  
our Lean Transformation and leadership training. We held four onboarding seminars 
during the year, three in Europe and 
one in the US. Over 100 newcomers representing 24 nationalities 
participated and we are planning a 
similar number of seminars for 2016.
Job-specific training
Within 12 months of joining, 
employees are required to undertake 
training on their specific function. 
For example, more than 50 people from sales teams from across 
Constellium attended Sales 
Negotiation training sessions held in Europe and in the US. 
These two-day sessions focused 
on objectives including improving 
negotiation skills, developing a 
systematic negotiation preparation process, the value-based approach 
to sales, improved customer 
communications and best practice sharing. In 2016, this program will 
be rolled out to support functions 
including project management training for IT, Finance and functional 
training for HR.
Constellium University supports 
Lean Transformation
Within six months of joining, all professional 
new joiners are required to attend a Lean 
workshop to practice and apply Lean tools 
on an active Lean program. In July 2015, we opened a new Lean Training Center at our Gottmadingen plant. 
A multidisciplinary team provides new 
employees with a complete overview of our 
Lean system in miniature form – with the 
entire operation represented in a space of only 20 meters. The Gottmadingen team  
is already preparing other training sessions 
to help employees implement Lean 
throughout the site.Constellium University for 
all employees
Leadership training
Our Lean leadership curriculum aims 
to improve performance, building 
capability and embedding the Lean culture in all our plants. Each month, 
we organize a Lean training session 
in one of our plants, focusing on a specific topic and targeted at 
specific leaders.
In 2015, more than 500 front-line 
managers and APU managers 
participated in a conflict management training module.  
In 2016, the focus will be on ‘Addressing Poor Performance’.
In 2016, we will be launching an 
initiative for middle managers, focusing on the impact that particular 
leadership styles have on the team 
environment, and the basics of finance for non-finance employees.
Building knowledge across 
different functions
We provided seven sustainability 
training sessions for a total of 
more than 100 sales managers during the year, building an 
understanding of sustainability 
and why it matters to Constellium. We are now exploring opportunities 
to integrate sustainability training 
into Constellium University as well as planning to build an e-learning tool 
and extending sustainability training 
to purchasing teams.Diversity
We manage diversity at a local 
level. At Neuf-Brisach, for example, 
we support gender diversity by advertising in schools, apprentice 
centers and recruitment shows for 
females to apply for our apprentice program. This has led to a higher 
proportion of female apprentices 
and is also expected to lead to more females gaining full-
time employment. 
Our drive towards greater diversity 
also includes the issue of nationality. 
At C-TEC, we employed engineers from 22 different countries in 
2015, reflecting the diversity of 
our customers and partners.
Human Resources 
Information System
As planned, we implemented our new 
global Human Resources Information System (HRIS) during the year in order 
to harmonize and streamline HR, IT 
and, commencing in 2016, Identity and Access Management (IAM) 
systems across the Group. 
This new system supports all our 
HR processes including employee 
data management, performance and talent management and, 
from 2016 onwards, will also 
support recruitment. Supporting our people  (continued)
Looking ahead
 –Continue to implement key safety projects such as; hands-
free casting; handling molten 
metal; standardization of Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment, 
Risk Controls (HIRARC); and 
avoiding slips, trips and falls
 –Implement the Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOPs)
 –Implement a crane operator 
safety program to prevent fingers from being pinched when 
touching suspended loads
 –Implement a new safety leadership program aimed 
at training shop floor shift supervisors on safety tools 
and accident prevention
 –Launch a safety-themed 
drawing competition among 
employees’ children to bring 
a family perspective to safety at work
 –Implement a health program focused on healthy eating, physical 
exercise and coping with mental 
stress at two pilot plants, Neuf-Brisach and Ravenswood
 –Complete implementation of the Environment Assessment Tool
 –Continue to eliminate SVHC
Participants attempt to match CO 2 emissions with the 
corresponding activityBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201549 48
Sustainability in focus
Engaging with our employees
We continued to take actions to 
increase employee engagement 
in 2015. 
Global Employee Survey (GES)
Although we did not reach our target 
of a six-point increase in employee 
satisfaction results by 2014, we are working hard to increase performance 
ahead of the 2016 GES. We have re-
stated our target to achieve a six-point increase by 2020, and focused on the 
following key areas over the last year:
Company culture
We introduced several initiatives 
around communication on customer 
needs. At Landau, for example, we used 8D
1 to help shop floor teams 
become more aware of how customer 
complaints impact the Company. 
Customer feedback was also central to presentations at Neuf -Brisach 
and Singen. Part of a Group-wide program, these presentations ensure that all our people understand the 
needs of our customers. 
In addition, our Valais site held a 
series of monthly lunches where 
employees could discuss issues with the Site Director, and at Van 
Buren we organized a range of 
meetings between management and employees. These included quarterly 
business updates and monthly 
roundtable sessions.
Training and development
We are committed to helping our 
employees work effectively and 
build rewarding careers. In 2015, 
we continued to provide training and development initiatives, 
including: evaluations, appraisals 
and mentoring; programs to develop job mobility and facilitate promotion; 
and a series of structured job-
specific training courses.Communication
We launched a local employee 
newsletter at Decin and Levice in 
order to improve information flow 
and support employee satisfaction. At Ravenswood, we produced a local 
newsletter and also introduced ‘town 
hall’ employee meetings. Group-wide, our IT teams implemented our ‘flash 
meeting capability’,
2 which enables 
Constellium people from anywhere in the world to meet up virtually.
Employee recognition
We are developing initiatives to 
complement our long-established 
THANK YOU AWARDS, including a new 
Service Awards program to recognize the contributions of long service 
employees at Ravenswood. 
THANK YOU AWARDS
This year, the THANK YOU AWARDS 
were again structured around the categories that reflect our business 
priorities: EHS & Sustainability; 
customer focus; operational excellence; and innovation.
CEO Pierre Vareille and President of Aerospace and 
Transportation Ingrid Jörg present the Gold THANK YOU AWARD to Five-Minute Safety Talk
The Gold Award for EHS & Sustainability 
was presented to the Singen team in 
Germany. Team members increased 
the reporting of hazards and near 
misses, and reduced recordable cases, by introducing a five-minute 
safety talk as part of the site’s daily 
flash meetings.
2 The talks are focused on injury prevention, sharing best practice 
from other sites and discussing 
potential hazards and risks at Singen. 
The team provided shift supervisors 
and team leaders with the skills  
to lead the talks and produced daily one-pagers to promote safety in the rolling area and casthouse. Now we 
are rolling out the five-minute safety 
talk across Constellium, and in 2016 it will be a part of every flash meeting.
2
Three other teams were honored  
with Gold THANK YOU AWARDS  
during the year. The Gold Award for customer focus went to the Neuf-Brisach team responsible for the FT1, 
a heat treatment furnace dedicated 
to the automotive body sheet market. Their efforts in boosting the FT1 
capacity resulted in significant 
growth rates with all key customers. 
The team responsible for the 
Ford F-150 program launch at Van Buren, US, received the Gold 
Award for operational excellence. 
Our new GRIPSTER
TM vehicle flooring 
solution has been an outstanding 
success, and the cross-functional 
collaboration between the teams at Issoire and C-TEC was recognized by 
the presentation of the Gold Award 
in the innovation category.
Community involvement
We are committed to supporting the 
communities close to our operations, 
playing a part in their successes and 
being a good neighbor. Our community initiatives are currently developed 
and implemented at a local level, 
although we are moving towards a more consistent, company-wide 
approach. Our aim is that each 
site should implement at least one community program per year. In 2015, 
our activities were conducted across 
four broad areas of focus:Environmental issues
We are committed to recycling, 
which is a key environmental benefit 
of aluminium. For example, in 2015 our world-class technology center, 
C-TEC, partnered with a local school 
to collect aluminium waste, while employees at our Ravenswood site 
participated in street fairs to raise 
environmental awareness. 
Educational and social programs
We believe in laying the foundations 
for future skills and fund a large 
number of educational initiatives, such as apprenticeships. At Decin, we 
sponsored local schools and students 
in 2015, recognizing the achievements of the top performers. 
At Ravenswood employees took part 
in a ‘Read aloud’ program, one of 
the many initiatives of Constellium 
CARES (see case study opposite) and at Muscle Shoals, we participated 
in a project by the local Chamber of 
Commerce to address economic, social and cultural issues in the community.
In addition, we carry out a wide 
range of activities that reflect 
our commitment to being a 
responsible business. In 2015, these were support  
for Doctors without Borders and 
a scheme whereby employees are 
able to make donations via payroll.
Community outreach
Family or open days showcase our 
operations, reflect the pride of our people and help underpin our role 
as a community-focused employer. 
We held such events at many sites during 2015, including at Decin, Levice, 
Montreuil-Juigné and Ravenswood.
Sport and healthcare
The combination of sports and charity 
has a positive impact on the health 
as well as the community spirit of our 
employees. We supported a number of activities during the year, including 
‘La Clermontoise & Raid’ ‘Terre 
d’Equilibre’ at Issoire, ‘Relay for Life’ at Ravenswood and soccer tournaments 
at Gottmadingen and Singen. 
At a corporate level, we continued 
to sponsor our employee Majid 
Jabbour, enabling him to compete in international regattas and work 
towards the 2016 Olympic Games. Supporting our people  (continued)
1  8D is a problem-solving method structured as a step-by-
step road map to truly understand the problem, its root causes and to develop robust and sustainable solutions
2  A daily meeting to discuss the progress of KPIs,  
any outstanding issues, gather suggestions from team members and organize priorities for the dayLocal HR not only produces the newsletter but also ensures all employees receive a copy of every issue
Toys for Tots
During the year, our people based at Van 
Buren in the US supported Toys for Tots, an 
organization managed by the Marine Corps. 
At Christmas, Toys for Tots provides gifts for children who would otherwise not receive any, including thousands in the greater Detroit 
area close to the plant. Employees collected toys for a week, with the 
Company committing to add a further $5 for 
each toy donated by an employee, up to a total 
of $500. At the end of the week, 102 toys were collected and the Company donated the full $500 in recognition of our employees’ efforts.
In the photo (left to right) are: Theresa Daws 
(MRO Purchasing), Ed Dover (EHS Manager) 
and Paris Johnson (HR Administrator). Ravenswood CARES
In 2015, the local human resources team 
at Ravenswood launched Constellium 
CARES, a program aimed at reinforcing 
the important role that employees, 
families, and communities have at 
Constellium. Employees request activities 
or suggest projects they would like to take 
part in and a team, created specifically for this program, meets weekly to review 
submissions and track the progress of 
events being planned for employees and 
their families. Examples of activities 
in 2015 included: a Baseball Family 
Night, with 800 tickets reserved for 
employees; the Relay for Life Team, which 
saw employees raise funds for cancer 
research and take 1st place at a relay 
event; and the Toys for Tots Team, which 
delivered three truckloads of toys to 
children in need.
Looking ahead
 –Expand Constellium University, 
not only in terms of program 
content but also in the 
number of attendees and their job functions
 –Develop sustainability training 
for our purchasing team
 –Conduct Global Employee 
Survey 2016
 –Develop a community 
engagement guide at those sites yet to start a program, focusing 
on initiatives that provide 
benefits to local stakeholders as well as Constellium
 –Encourage all sites to implement 
at least one engagement 
program during the year aheadBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201551 50
Sustainability in focus
In summary
Materiality coverage
 –Prevent pollution from operations
 –Reduce waste from operations
 –Improve energy efficiency of operations
 –Reduce our greenhouse gas emissions2015 operations targets
 –75% total landfill reduction by 2020
 –10% decrease in energy consumption per 
processed unit by 2015
 –Major European sites to gain ISO 50001 certification by 2015
2015 operations performance 
 –Due to a number of factors including the acquisition of the Muscle Shoals plant, 
we have revised the landfill target 
 –We achieved the 10% decrease in energy 
consumption per processed unit one year early, in 2014. However, 2015 saw a slight decrease in energy efficiency. In total, we achieved a 9% reduction by 2015 from a 2010 baseline with legacy Constellium
 –As planned, we have certified all our major European sites to ISO 50001: Burg, Crailsheim, Decin, Issoire, Landau, Neuf-Brisach, Singen and Valais, representing 
almost half of our sites
2020 operations targets 
 –Reduce landfilled waste coming from 
production by 10%, including Muscle 
Shoals (vs. 2015)
 –10% energy efficiency improvements 
by 2020, including Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015)Improving the efficiency 
of our operations
We will achieve our objectives by further improving our 
operational performance, by optimizing the way we use 
natural resources such as energy, and by preventing and 
minimizing our environmental impacts.
Improving our 
energy efficiency
When we consider energy efficiency 
across the full life-cycle of a product, 
aluminium has inherent advantages 
over alternative materials. Light  
and strong, aluminium content in 
products such as cars and airplanes 
leads to significantly greater energy efficiency during the usage stage, 
while aluminium can also be infinitely 
recycled using only moderate amounts of energy. These advantages 
outweigh the fact that aluminium 
is energy intensive during the manufacturing stage.
We strive to make sure that 
aluminium delivers on its potential 
to save energy by working hard on 
energy efficiency initiatives across our plants.Meeting our 2015 energy 
efficiency target
Our target for 2015 was to improve 
energy efficiency by 10%, from a 2010 
baseline. As we reported last year, we 
succeeded in reaching this target in 2014, 12 months ahead of schedule.
One of the highlights of 2015 was the  
successful upgrade of a recycling 
furnace at Neuf-Brisach to incorporate  
oxyfuel technology, which resulted 
in more energy efficient recycling 
at the plant. However, despite this achievement, our overall 
performance slipped slightly during 
the year which means that we have in fact improved energy efficiency by 
only 9% since 2010. This was mainly 
due to lower energy performance of specific industrial equipment 
and ramp-up of new products 
that impaired overall efficiency. Most of these issues have now been 
resolved and they should not affect 
our 2016 results. 
Targeting an additional 10% 
improvement
We remain committed to further 
gains in energy efficiency, and 
have targeted an additional 10% improvement by 2020. In order to 
support this goal we have reactivated 
and reinvigorated our energy network. The first kick-off meeting 
took place in December, chaired 
by Ingrid Jörg, President of our Aerospace and Transportation 
business unit and Chairwoman of 
the Sustainability Council.
The network’s task is clear: 
reduce our energy consumption in order to not only cut costs but 
also significantly decrease our 
environmental footprint. Among a range of early actions, the network 
has determined our 2015 energy 
efficiency performance as a baseline and gained an understanding of how 
recent improvements have impacted 
performance. This has laid the groundwork for future initiatives. 
Following this stage, the network has 
defined an action plan for the coming 
years, including the implementation of best practices. The implementation and performance of the network’s actions will be tracked quarterly. 
The challenge will be to activate 
each of the levers that affect energy performance: technical solutions, 
including upgrading equipment  
and optimizing processes;  
managerial functions, including 
standardizing best practices and enhanced process parameter control; and improving the way we manage energy recovery and productivity. In addition, the network is providing methodologies and solutions  
that explore the best ways to fund energy-related projects.
Improving energy efficiency 
at Decin 
As a major consumer of electrical energy, 
our site at Decin in the Czech Republic has 
actively explored ways to save energy for the 
last decade. This process continued during 2014, with the completion of ISO 50001 certification following the installation of 
energy monitoring systems on appliances 
in the previous year. Energy-saving initiatives remain top priorities at Decin, 
and in 2015 the site joined the Constellium 
Energy network project. 
During the year we completed a major 
project to revamp the obsolete central 
generator pump stations, where a high-pressure mixture of water and 
oil (AKU station) powers four press 
lines. The project’s aim was to deliver a combination of savings in energy, maintenance and scrap. We therefore 
decided to replace the old pump with 
four new ones that offered better output parameters, with the old pump retained 
as a back-up.
Combined with other optimizations, this 
new pump system has reduced total energy 
consumption by 30%. 
Energy efficiency by design
Our new casthouse at Issoire not only helps us meet increasing demand for our 
groundbreaking AIRWARE
® technology 
– it also does so with state-of-the-art energy efficiency.
For example, heat from the cooling airflow 
of the induction system is recovered to 
provide building heating, ensuring its energy 
is not wasted. At the same time, instead of relying on air conditioning, the casthouse 
draws its cooling air from outside the plant, 
thereby reducing energy consumption. The casthouse also features an LED system with optical sensors that save energy 
by automatically optimizing the lighting 
according to the amount of daylight.
Overall, the innovative initiatives at 
Issoire mean that the energy required for AIRWARE
® casting remains comparable 
to that needed for standard alloy casting, 
despite production being significantly more 
demanding. See page 40 for more details on AIRWARE
®. 
Making our operations more efficientBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201553 52
Sustainability in focus
Achieving ISO 50001 certification
We have successfully achieved  
our aim of having all our major 
European sites certified to the ISO 50001 energy management standard, 
in line with the commitment made 
in 2012.
ISO 50001 helps organizations  
such as Constellium conserve 
resources, tackle climate change, 
and save money at the same time. 
Based on continuous improvement, it enables us to use energy more 
efficiently, through the development 
of an energy management system.
Our sites at Issoire, Neuf-Brisach 
and Valais gained certification, joining their counterparts in Germany 
and the Czech Republic, which 
were already certified. Our German sites successfully renewed their 
certifications in 2015, endorsing  
the progress they have made to date 
and their full engagement in the 
principles of energy management. 
In total, almost half of all our sites around the world are now certified  
to ISO 50001.
Reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions
Gases recognized for their 
contribution to global warming are 
known as greenhouse gases (GHGs). 
GHG emissions are a key measure of our environmental performance, 
and we have already made good 
headway by focusing on energy efficiency targets. 
Based on legacy operations, our 
direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2)  
emissions for the year decreased to 705kt CO
2e, mostly due to the use of 
more specific electricity emission 
factors in several plants. 
Due to its size and impressive 
beverage can recycling capability, 
the acquisition of Muscle Shoals adds 
a significant amount of emissions to our operations. However, to a large 
extent these recycling activities also 
enable us to reduce the volume of primary metal purchased, thereby 
reducing the GHG emissions 
associated with raw material purchasing (Scope 3). Accounting for GHG emissions
GHGs include carbon dioxide 
(CO 2), Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), 
methane (CH4), nitrous oxide 
(N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) 
and perfluorocarbons.
Assessing GHG emissions involves 
identifying emissions of such gases associated with given activities. 
In the case of Constellium, this is the 
melting, casting, transformation and recycling of aluminium products.
GHG emissions are measured under 
four different scopes – and in order to report our emissions accurately 
and consistently, we are carefully 
considering which ones to include. 
 –Scope 1 includes direct emissions from our sites. In our case, 
these are mainly associated 
with the combustion of natural gas in our metal furnaces and 
recycling centers, but this scope 
also includes emissions from Constellium-owned vehicles.  –Scope 2 relates to emissions associated with the production of 
the energy we purchase – primarily 
electricity, although this could also include other energies such 
as steam. 
 –Scope 3 relates to emissions 
occurring both upstream (emissions associated with the 
production of materials and 
products we purchase) and downstream (the distribution, 
use and end-of-life (EOL) of the 
products we sell), as well as business travel and our employees’ 
journeys to work.
 –Scope 4 relates to GHG emissions that have been avoided. 
For example, the use of aluminium in transportation often saves 
weight, thereby enabling lower 
fuel consumption during product usage. Recycling aluminium also 
avoids GHG emissions because 
it replaces the need for primary metal and produces significantly 
lower emissions. There is currently 
no existing standard for Scope 4.
To properly account for GHG emissions, we also rely on guidance documents, such as those 
provided by the GHG Protocol 
(www.ghgprotocol.org) and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 
(www.cdp.net). 
Defining our GHG emissions target 
As we support a full life-cycle 
approach to determine the environmental impact of our activities 
and products, our aim is to assess  
the full range of scopes.However, this is not a simple process 
as each scope comes with its own 
particular complexities. 
Although Scopes 1 & 2 are relatively 
straightforward to assess, they do not reflect the degree of effort involved. 
For example, while increasing our 
recycling activity is environmentally sound, it will increase our Scopes 1 
& 2. This is because we will recycle 
and cast the aluminium scrap in our facility, thereby increasing emissions, 
instead of simply purchasing primary 
metal slabs or billets. The benefits of recycling can be quantified in 
either Scope 3, where the need for 
less primary metal means lower Scope 3 emissions, or in Scope 4 
as avoided emissions. In addition, 
Scopes 1 & 2 do not measure the benefits associated with more 
efficient products, such as lighter 
automotive parts. These products may lead to higher Scope 1 & 2 
emissions because they are more 
complex to produce, even though 
the savings during the usage phase 
largely offset the extra impacts during manufacturing.
Our view is that the inclusion of Scopes 
3 & 4 is the key to demonstrating the true benefit of a full life-cycle 
approach. However, they need to be 
handled with care to avoid the dangers 
of double counting or overlooking 
some aspects of our activity. 
We remain committed to accurately and fairly measuring our GHG 
emissions. The above challenges 
explain why we are continuing to undertake a thorough exploration of 
the different scopes, before issuing 
an emissions target and disclosing it to the CDP platform.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)
LCA tools are central to developing 
an understanding of the key issues 
around reducing GHG emissions. 
LCAs take into account a number  
of factors outside our own 
manufacturing processes – 
such as product performance. Among these factors, the 
lightweighting properties 
of aluminium to reduce fuel consumption, and EOL recycling 
to minimize the need for primary 
metal play a major role.
Looking ahead
 –Define a global GHG emissions reduction target with a scope 
that extends beyond our own 
operations to include both our supply chain and our products’ 
distribution, use and EOL Focus on GHGs
To raise employee awareness of EHS, every 
year Constellium dedicates a full day to 
EHS. For the first time, the 2015 EHS day 
included a significant amount of effort spent on educating people about GHG emission reduction initiatives and sharing ideas.
The day included a presentation on the 
importance of GHG emissions, putting the issue into context and outlining the key 
messages from COP 21 in Paris. COP 21 was the first time that countries 
from around the world attempted to reach 
a universal agreement to limit the planet’s 
temperature increase to less than 2°C. The final session of the presentation gave our employees practical suggestions for how 
their individual actions can help reduce GHG 
emissions – such as using public transport, turning off lights and identifying energy 
reduction projects in our plants.
 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2015 
Legacy Constellium*2015kt CO 2e446416
278
283
287694
403
686
414
701
297
446
307
753
446
258
705
752
434
1,185743
*Compared to 2014, evolution is mostly due to the update of electricity emission factors, based on suppliers’ information, instead of national average emission factors for
   previous years. Figures have been rounded to the nearest kt CO 2eScope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1+21,400
1,0001,200
800
600400200Looking ahead
 –Define and execute our roadmap 
to achieve a 10% improvement 
in energy efficiency by 2020, 
from a 2015 baseline
 –Use our energy network to share best practices across Constellium
 –Continue to drive energy efficiency improvements, using the tools and methodologies of 
ISO 50001
Environment
Making our operations more efficient (continued)
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201555 54
Sustainability in focus
Production waste Metric tons
201082,491
91,992
95,350
100,914
112,910
78,05186,41079,79478,53990,474
76,62071,938
2,329
5,014
8,840
3,950
4,716
4,876
8,940
25,91910,840
9,628
95,926
78,050
6,662
11,2149,6838,224
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 
Legacy Constellium120,000
100,000
80,00060,00040,00020,000
Total Recycling Incineration LandﬁllKey wastes
Flue-gas dust  
Origins: from filtering our furnace (melting 
or recycling) exhaust gases to prevent their 
emission in the atmosphere. These contain metallic particles that need to be neutralized before further processing. 
Actions: ongoing partnerships with leading 
organizations to explore solutions.Sludge  
Origins: formed during processing of 
wastewater from the aluminium surface 
treatment workshops. As is the case with flue-gas dust, the production of sludge occurs because we remove and neutralize potentially 
harmful substances to prevent their release 
into the environment. 
Actions: depending on the composition of the 
sludge, solutions can include recycling it as construction material.Demolition waste  
Origins: from excavation, building and other 
infrastructure demolition. The amount we 
produce varies from year to year.
Actions: can be crushed or ground and 
recycled as construction material, backfill or material for embankments. Furnace insulation waste, such as refractory bricks, has been 
in contact with liquid metal and therefore 
requires special treatment before recycling.
Preventing pollution on-site
Preventing pollution at our sites is 
at the heart of our commitment to 
minimize our environmental footprint. 
We do this by maintaining adequate tools and processes, including 
internal directives and guidelines, 
as well as by ensuring that we have the appropriate protection and 
containment equipment.
Our emissions remain relatively 
stable and at a low intensity level  
for legacy Constellium. Although  
our acquisition of the Muscle Shoals plant added a significant quantity  
of air emissions, due to the size of  
the plant, the intensity of these emissions remains low.Rolling out external audits
In 2014 we piloted an external  
audit initiative to provide assurance 
that our operations are compliant with our internal directives and 
regulations. Following the successful 
pilot at Montreuil-Juigné, we carried out two more external audits in 
2015, at C-TEC and Nuits-Saint-
Georges, confirming that our internal procedures performed satisfactorily 
with only minor issues identified. 
Four further external audits are planned for 2016, at Neuf-Brisach, 
Issoire, Ussel and Valais.
Looking ahead
 –Deploy our external 
environmental audit program 
at additional sitesReducing waste sent 
to landfill
As aluminium is a valuable resource, 
most of our production waste is 
recycled. However, we do still produce 
some waste that is not recyclable by traditional means and therefore goes 
to landfill. Examples of this waste 
include flue-gas dust, sludge from wastewater treatment and waste 
from demolition (see case study on 
key wastes).Rising to the challenge  
of flue-gas dust
We continue to work with leading 
organizations around the world to explore ways to reduce waste sent to 
landfill, particularly flue-gas dust. 
For example, during 2015 we launched 
a dedicated collaboration program 
with Strasbourg University aimed at identifying new ways to process 
flue-gas dust. This is a complex issue 
and although we have no progress to report at this point, we remain 
committed to finding a workable 
solution in time.
We did achieve success at our 
Ravenswood plant during the year, 
where we reduced the amount of flue-
gas dust we produce by improving process control as well as identifying 
recycling solutions for other 
categories of waste, notably wood. A major investment in a new furnace and associated excavation work led 
to a significant, though temporary, 
increase in our overall landfilled waste in 2015.
The acquisition of the Muscle Shoals 
plant more than doubled our total 
amount of waste sent to landfill. While the overall waste volumes 
generated by Muscle Shoals remain 
moderate, we will address this situation over the coming years 
through a set of initiatives previously 
deployed at our other locations. We have set an overall Constellium 
reduction target (including Muscle 
Shoals) of 10% in the amount of landfilled waste resulting from 
our production operations. We no 
longer have a target for demolition waste because it is closely linked to 
construction work and is therefore 
difficult to predict. However, avoiding sending this  
waste to landfill will also be part  
of our actions.
Looking ahead
 –Identify solutions for non-inert waste such as flue-gas dust
 –Improve waste sorting at Muscle 
Shoals and define an action plan 
to reduce waste from the plant 
being sent to landfillMaking our operations more efficient (continued)
Reducing pollution at source
Pollution prevention measures have been 
incorporated in the facility of our joint 
venture with UACJ Corporation in Bowling 
Green, Kentucky. These measures have been designed and constructed to comply with the regulatory framework and our own internal 
EHS directives and guidelines. Pollution prevention measures include 
initiatives related to air emissions control, 
surface treatment workshop (retention design) 
and wastewater. Our EHS team conducts regular audits to monitor the pollution prevention process. 
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201557 56
Sustainability in focus
In summary
Materiality coverage
 –Promote and enforce ethical 
business practices
 –Engage suppliers in 
sustainability performance
 –Increase economic performance2015 responsible  
business targets
 –100% of key suppliers joining United 
Nations Global Compact (UNGC) by 2015 
2015 responsible 
business performance 
 –More than half of key suppliers are 
signatories of the UNGC
 –Implementation of a responsible supply 
chain policy
Constellium was a founding member of 
the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) 
in 2012 and we have played an active role 
in its development as an independent organization. (See pages 36–37 for more information on the ASI)2020 responsible business targets 
 –Have at least one site ASI certified  
by 2020*
 –100% of key suppliers and those  
suppliers initially assessed as high risk evaluated or audited according to UNGC principles by 2020 Employee Code of Conduct
Every day, our people are required to 
make increasingly complex business 
decisions that have an impact on 
colleagues, suppliers and customers, as well as the communities in which 
we operate. 
The Constellium Worldwide Code of 
Employee and Business Conduct aims 
to help our people make the correct decisions by remaining true to our 
guiding values. It provides practical 
help and guidance on our framework of ethical values and outlines the 
standards of professionalism and 
integrity which we expect throughout our business.
Company-wide observance
The code applies to everybody at 
Constellium from boardroom to 
casthouse, without exception. 
For those employees without direct 
access to a computer, it is the responsibility of individual plants to 
explain and monitor the code. At our 
largest sites, our internal control framework requires each of our 
employees to acknowledge the Code 
of Conduct.
For those employees with direct access 
to a computer, we provide an e-learning 
module for new employees, supported by an annual refresh. The number of executives taking part in the refresh is tracked and reported 
every year. The relevant numbers for 
2015 can be found on page 70 of our performance data.
Developments in 2015
We review the code on a regular 
basis, expanding and updating it as necessary. In 2015, we included new 
elements to cover issues of particular 
concern for employees in certain functions: specifically, antitrust 
for our sales teams and anti-fraud 
for our accounting teams. The latter included a new policy on reporting 
fraud and irregularities.
We also enhanced our Whistleblower 
Policy during the year to include 
details of a new Integrity Hotline. A confidential service conducted 
by an independent company, the 
Hotline enables employees to voice concerns and suggestions 
for improvement anonymously by 
phone at any time of the day or night. The Hotline has toll-free telephone 
numbers in every country where 
we have a manufacturing facility, giving employees access to trained 
specialists able to communicate in 
English, French, German, Czech, Slovak and Chinese.Looking ahead
 –Continue to enforce our employee code of conduct
Anti-corruption
Sustainable Supply 
Chain Management
At Constellium, sustainability does 
not just mean ensuring that our own 
social, environmental and ethical 
standards are in place. It also means making sure our values are reflected 
across the supply chain.
Our Supply Chain Management Policy 
reflects the fact that our priorities 
are shaped by our respect for people and the environment in which we 
live. We believe that our commitment 
to responsible business should extend beyond our own business 
and embrace our entire supply 
chain. Our Policy aims to gather and use knowledge about our supply 
chain to drive improvements and to 
reinforce our suppliers’ commitments to sustainability. 
During 2015, we made good progress 
towards achieving that aim. 
Specifically, we have:
 –developed our Supplier Code 
of Conduct. We identified 44 
suppliers of products and services such as energy, metal, chemicals 
and machinery as key suppliers. 
Of these suppliers 80% have either signed the Code or produced 
their own Code of Conduct that 
we have agreed covers the same issues. Our purchasing teams 
are in contact with the remaining 
20% of key suppliers, reminding them that this is a mandatory 
requirement. All new contracts 
include this requirement; andCarrying out our business 
in line with our values
We are committed to carrying out our business responsibly and 
complying with the highest standards of governance, in line with 
our values. We do this through a combination of internal and 
external initiatives: internally, we subscribe to the highest levels of transparency and accountability, and are developing Company and industry sustainability programs; externally, we actively 
promote the adoption and implementation of sustainability 
policies by our suppliers and contractors.
Code of Conduct training at Decin
Every year, our plant at Decin runs sessions which communicate the key aspects of the 
Code of Conduct to employees. This live 
training, which is attended by all employees, also includes a dedicated time for questions and answers. * Based on the assumption that there will be a 
certification scheme in place 
Doing business responsibly
Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201559 58
Sustainability in focus
Traders
We will assess traders biennially via 
a questionnaire devised internally. 
The results will be benchmarked and we will work with the traders to devise 
improvement plans if necessary. 
New suppliers
Suppliers that are new to our 
supply chain will be required to 
sign our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
New suppliers will also undergo an internal risk assessment, following 
which they may proceed to an 
external assessment or on-site audit depending on the category 
in which they are placed. The only 
exceptions are those detailed on the previous page.
Looking ahead
 –Finalize the signing of the Supplier Code of Conduct
 –Continue to roll out the 
performance assessments
 –Pilot on-site audits of suppliers 
that we consider are associated 
with greater risk –launched a campaign to assess the 
sustainability performance of our 
key suppliers and to audit suppliers 
that were initially assessed as carrying more risk.
In line with our objective to embed sustainability throughout Constellium, we are also engaging 
with our purchasing teams on the 
role of sustainability in purchasing decisions. The teams will receive 
training on the different areas and the 
implementation of the Supply Chain Management Policy.
The Supplier Code 
of Conduct
The Constellium Supplier Code 
of Conduct is a framework that 
outlines the standards of integrity 
for which we strive throughout our business and supply chain. The Code 
aims to drive the many different 
aspects of sustainability and to tackle several challenging but very 
important matters.
The Code applies to all suppliers, 
subsidiaries, consultants, contractors 
and affiliates of Constellium, and all suppliers are expected to agree to 
its terms and uphold it in all of their 
business operations. A supplier will only be exempted from signing the 
Code if it has been verified that the 
supplier’s own code of conduct is in line with our Code. 
As signatories of the UNGC, we have 
the utmost respect for human and labor rights, and the code therefore 
includes sections on EHS, business 
ethics and sustainable procurement. 
Assessing the sustainability 
performance of our suppliers
As an extension of our commitment 
to the UNGC we have set a target to 
assess or audit all of our key suppliers 
and suppliers that were initially 
assessed as carrying more risk by 
2020, according to UNGC principles. Our first step was to conduct an internal risk assessment which identified three categories 
of suppliers:
 –traders (such as metal traders who 
are responsible for some aspects of our sourcing);
 –key suppliers (those with a high turnover with Constellium of strategic importance) primarily in 
the metal and energy sector but 
also key suppliers of equipment, refractories, and all indirect goods 
and services; and
 –suppliers that were initially assessed as carrying more risk 
(based on activities and location).
Of our thousands of suppliers, 55 have been classified as in the key or 
high-risk categories, accounting for 
more than half of the total amount we spend with suppliers. The suppliers 
that were initially assessed as 
carrying more risk in our view present a higher level of compliance 
risk because they are based in 
or supply goods/services from a high- risk country. 
In order to achieve our target of assessing or auditing all of our key 
suppliers (and suppliers that were 
initially assessed as carrying more risk) according to UNGC principles 
by 2020, we have worked with 
the EcoVadis platform to create different action plans for each of 
these categories (see the case 
study on page 59 for details of the EcoVadis platform).
Key suppliers
We will carry out external 
assessments on each key supplier 
every three years.
These assessments will return a 
rating of problematic, basic or good 
based on the EcoVadis scale from  
0 to 100 (the criteria are explained 
in the case study on page 59).
Problematic assessment  – scores 
below 30 will trigger an immediate 
action plan with a new assessment within six months. If low results 
persist, an on-site audit will 
be performed.Basic assessment – scores 
between 30 and 37 will require the supplier to work with us to resolve identified issues. 
Good assessment  – scores above 
37 are considered satisfactory.This policy will apply to all key 
suppliers. The only exceptions will be for those suppliers which 
the internal risk assessment 
has identified as providing clear sustainability policies as well as 
external stakeholder engagement 
in matters of sustainability. The results of all assessments will 
be communicated to suppliers and 
areas of improvement discussed.
As part of our Supply Chain 
Management Policy, we will continue to encourage and assist key suppliers 
to join UNGC and all aluminium 
suppliers to join the ASI.
Riskier suppliers
Suppliers initially identified as 
carrying more risk will undergo on-
site audits carried out by an external 
auditing company. 
Audits will be carried out every 
three years for those suppliers that 
fall within the ‘satisfactory’ and ‘requires improvement’ categories 
and annually for suppliers that 
are classified as ‘requires major improvement’. Suppliers that fall 
within the ‘zero tolerance’ category, 
such as those associated with child labor, forced labor and critical 
health and safety issues, will have 
their business with Constellium suspended until the problem 
is resolved. 
Anti-corruption and 
human rightsDoing business responsibly (continued)
Neuf-Brisach site hosts industry body visit
During 2015, our team at Neuf-Brisach 
was proud to host a visit from European 
Aluminium, the voice of the aluminium 
industry in Europe, as part of the organization’s program of autumn meetings. Over 80 members representing a wide 
range of aluminium companies discovered 
the role and key capabilities of our facility, including recycling.
Currently chaired by our CEO Pierre Vareille, 
European Aluminium represents 600 plants 
and 1 million direct and indirect jobs across 
the entire value chain of the aluminium industry in Europe. The organization actively engages with decision-makers and the wider 
stakeholder community to promote the 
outstanding properties of aluminium, secure growth and optimize the contribution that 
aluminium can make to meeting Europe’s 
sustainability challenges. It draws on its proven environmental and technical expertise, economic and statistical 
analysis, and scientific research – and uses 
education, the sharing of best practices, public affairs and communication activities to promote aluminium to all stakeholders. 
“Many thanks to the Neuf-Brisach team for 
the hospitality, presentations and plant visit,” 
said Gerd Götz, Director General, European 
Aluminium. “The feedback we have received has been excellent. Our members enjoyed the 
comprehensive tour! Kudos for the excellent 
preparations. It was a pleasure to have visited Constellium on this occasion.”
Aluminium
Stewardship
Initiativ eASI certification
One of our key objectives is for one of our large sites to be ASI certified by 2020. This will not only enable the further development of sustainability within Constellium, it will also demonstrate our 
commitment to engaging with our stakeholders. 
Through the ASI, we work hard to promote sustainability beyond our Company and our supply 
chain, influencing the entire value chain. We actively encourage our aluminium suppliers and all 
of our customers to join ASI and we are pleased that several of them have become signatories.
 For more information on ASI and its progress in 2015  
see pages 36–37Comprehensive 
assessment platform
We have launched a program to assess the 
sustainability of our suppliers by working 
with EcoVadis, one of the world’s leading 
assessment partners. EcoVadis operates 
a collaborative platform that provides 
Supplier Sustainability Ratings for global supply chains. EcoVadis provides companies with a questionnaire tailored 
to their size and industry, and requires 
supporting documentation to verify claims made regarding sustainability policies and 
performance. After a careful assessment 
of the completed questionnaire, companies receive scores which range between 0 and 100. The EcoVadis Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) analysis system 
is built on international CSR standards including the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI), the UNGC, and the ISO 26000, 
covering 21 criteria across four themes of environment, fair labor practices, ethics/fair business practices, and 
supply chain. Before we began the 
EcoVadis process with our suppliers, we tested it by undergoing our own 
EcoVadis assessments in 2013  
and 2015. In 2015, we were  
awarded a gold rating.
Watch the video at:
www.constellium.com/media/multimedia-libraryPerformance  
in focusIn this section, we publish the detailed performance 
figures that underpin the narrative of Constellium’s year. 
We include financial and share price information together 
with sustainability data and facts about the composition of our workforce and employee turnover. Finally, we list the organizations of which we are members and provide an 
index of our GRI G4 disclosure.
Business and sustainability  
performance report 201561
Performance in focusBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015 60
Consolidated income statement
Earnings per share attributable to the  
equity holders of the Company(in millions of euros)Year ended  
December 31, 2015Year ended  
December 31, 2014Year ended  
December 31, 2013
Revenue 5,153 3,666 3,495
Cost of sales (4,703) (3,183) (3,024)
Gross profit 450 483 471
Selling and administrative expenses (245) (200) (210)
Research and development expenses (35) (38) (36)
Restructuring costs (8) (12) (8)
Impairment (457) – –
Other gains/(losses) – net (131) (83) (8)
(Loss)/income from operations (426) 150 209
Other expenses – – (27)
Finance income 71 30 17
Finance costs (226) (88) (67)
Finance costs – net (155) (58) (50)
Share of (loss)/profit of joint ventures (3) (1) 3
(Loss)/income before income tax (584) 91 135
Income tax benefit/(expense) 32 (37) (39)
Net (loss)/income from continuing operations (552) 54 96
Net income from discontinued operations – – 4
Net (loss)/income for the period (552) 54 100
Net (loss)/income attributable to:
Equity holders of Constellium (554) 51 98
Non-controlling interests 2 3 2
Net (loss)/income (552) 54 100
(in euros per share)Year ended  
December 31, 2015Year ended  
December 31, 2014Year ended  
December 31, 2013
Basic (5.27) 0.48 1.00
Diluted (5.27) 0.48 0.99
Note: More detailed information on our financial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at: 
www.constellium.com/aluminium-company/finance/regulatory-filingsBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201563 62
Performance in focus
Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated statement of cash flows
(in millions of euros)At December 31,  
2015At December 31,  
2014
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 443 11
Intangible assets 78 17
Property, plant and equipment 1,255 633
Investment accounted for under equity method 30 21
Deferred income tax assets 270 192
Trade receivables and other 53 48
Other financial assets 37 33
2,166 955
Current assets
Inventories 542 436
Trade receivables and other 365 573
Other financial assets 70 57
Cash and cash equivalents 472 991
1,449 2,057
Assets classified as held for sale 13 –
Total assets 3,628 3,012
EquityShare capital 2 2
Share premium 162 162
Retained deficit and other reserves (715) (207)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company (551) (43)
Non-controlling interests 11 6
Total equity (540) (37)
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 2,064 1,205
Trade payables and other 54 31
Deferred income tax liabilities 10 –
Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 701 657
Other financial liabilities 14 40
Provisions 119 61
2,962 1,994
Current liabilitiesBorrowings 169 47
Trade payables and other 867 877
Income taxes payable 6 11
Other financial liabilities 107 71
Provisions 44 49
1,193 1,055
Liabilities classified as held for sale 13 –
Total liabilities 4,168 3,049
Total equity and liabilities 3,628 3,012(in millions of euros)Year ended  
December 31, 2015Year ended  
December 31, 2014Year ended  
December 31, 2013
Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities
Net (loss)/income from continuing operations (552) 54 96
Adjustments for:
Income tax (benefit)/expense (32) 37 39
Finance costs – net 155 58 50
Depreciation and amortization 140 49 32
Restructuring costs and other provisions 2 6 (8)
Impairment 457 – –
Defined benefit pension costs 48 29 29
Unrealized losses/(gains) on derivatives net and from remeasurement  
of monetary assets and liabilities – net 23 52 (14)
Losses on disposal and assets classified as held for sale 5 5 6
Share of loss/(profit) of joint ventures 3 – (3)
Other 5 5 2
Changes in working capital:
Inventories 149 (95) 41
Trade receivables 343 (48) 9
Margin calls 1 11 4
Trade payables (161) 170 (1)
Other working capital 4 (33) (9)
Changes in other operating assets and liabilities:
Provisions – pay out (20) (12) (17)
Income tax paid (9) (27) (29)
Pension liabilities and other post-employment benefit  
obligations payment (50) (49) (43)
Net cash flows from operating activities 511 212 184
Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (350) (199) (144)
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired (348) – –
Proceeds from disposals, including joint venture 4 (2) 7
Issuance of shares of joint ventures (9) (19) –
Proceeds from finance leases 6 6 6
Other investing activities (25) (2) (1)
Net cash flows used in investing activities (722) (216) (132)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
Net proceeds received from issuance of shares – – 162
Interim dividend paid – – (147)
Distribution of share premium to owners of the Company – – (103)
Withholding tax reimbursed/(paid) – 20 (20)
Interests paid (143) (39) (36)
Proceeds received from Term Loan and Senior Notes – 1,153 351
Repayment of Term Loan – (331) (156)
Proceeds/(repayments) of US revolving Credit Facility and other loans (211) 13 2
Payment of deferred financing costs (2) (27) (8)
Transactions with non-controlling interests 3 (2) (2)
Other financing activities 45 (34) –
Net cash flows (used in)/from financing activities (308) 753 43
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (519) 749 95
Cash and cash equivalents – beginning of period 991 236 142
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 4 6 (1)
Cash and cash equivalents – end of period 476 991 236
Less: Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale (4) – –
Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the statement  
of financial position 472 991 236Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201565 64
Performance in focus
In this section (pages 65–75), we provide our performance across the  
four pillars of Constellium’s sustainability strategy:
Products
People
Operations
Responsible business
Products
For more on Products  
see pages 38–43
 Sales from innovative products* 
2012 2013 2014 2015
* Innovative products are deﬁned as new products launched in to the market less than ﬁve years ago14
1210
8
6
4
24.5%9.3%13.0%13.3%
  Aluminium beverage can recycling rates
2000 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014 201580
70
60
50
40
43.0%54.5%
45.0%49.2%
46.0%48.4% 48.0%
44.3%48.0%
45.1%52.0%
45.0%58.0%
45.3%48.5% 48.2%50.9%49.7%54.1%54.2% 54.9%56.7%
54.5%61.8%63.1%64.0%66.7%68.3%69.5%71.3%
* This is the most recent data available for Europe. Figures for this data take a long time to process and the 2013 data was only made available in 2015. The beverage can 
 recycling rate has seen a tremendous improvement from 43% (in 2000) to 71.3% (in 2013)Europe
US 75% target for 2015
Share information
16
14121086420Share price evolution in US$ (from May 15, 2015)
May 15
2015June 15
2015July 16
2015Aug 14
2015Sept 15
2015Oct 15
2015Nov 13
2015Dec 15
2015Jan 15
2016Feb 16
2016March 15
2016Apr 15
2016May 13
2016
Average number of daily shares traded in 2015 :
 1. 2  million
shares
Shareholding structure 
(as of December 31, 2015)
Free ﬂoat
Bpifrance
12.18%
87.82%Sustainability performanceBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201567 66
Performance in focus
GRI G4–10: Total workforce
ApprenticeInactive  
restructuringInactive  
without pay Permanent Fixed-termTemporary 
(agency,  
excluding  
contractors)
All Constellium
Number of employees with 
specific employment typeMale 279 3 32 – – –
Female 50 1 21 – – –
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale – – – 9,095 416
578
Female – – – 1,101 87
Number of employees  
working full/part-timeFull-time 329 4 43 9,995 503
578
Part-time 0 0 10 201 –
Total 11,085
Total permanent and fixed terms 10,699
Europe
Number of employees with specific employment typeMale 279 3 20 – – –
Female 50 1 20 – – –
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale – – – 6,639 254
578
Female – – – 778 45
Number of employees  
working full/part-timeFull-time 329 4 30 7,216 299
578
Part-time – – 10 201 –
Total 8,089
North America
Number of employees with specific employment typeMale – – 12 – – –
Female – – 1 – – –
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale – – – 2,442 –
–
Female – – – 311 –
Number of employees  
working full/part-timeFull-time – – 13 2,753 – –
Part-time – – – – – –
Total 2,766
Asia
Number of employees with specific employment typeMale – – – – – –
Female – – – – – –
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale – – – 14 162
–
Female – – – 12 42
Number of employees  
working full/part-timeFull-time – – – 26 204 –
Part-time – – – – – –
Total 230
 
Legacy Constellium
European Aluminium, Rolling and Extrusion w/o Contractors US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Aluminum sheet, plate and foil, w/o Contractors  Recordable Case Rate *
2004 2005 2006 2007 200813.34
10.47
8.39
6.70
4.89
3.81 3.48 3.182.56 2.74 2.84 2.743.67
2.8613.30
11.50
10.70
8.40
7.20
6.20 6.306.907.80 7.809.9024.5026.00
19.0018.50
17.5018.50
15.00
14.00 14.0013.5016.00
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 *The Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries an d medical treatments per 1 million hours worked. 
External statistics without external contractors. Statistics from 2004 to 2014 are legacy Constellium and include contractors. In 2014 and 2015 we show both legacy Constellium 
and Constellium with Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green and Changchun, and both include contractors25
20
15
10
5
0
Constellium with Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green and ChangchunPeople
For more on People  
see pages 44-49Sustainability performance  (continued)
Serious injuries (Legacy Constellium) Serious injuries  (including Muscle Shoals)  Number of serious injuries including fatalities * 
2010 2013 2012 2011 2014 201510
8
6
4
27
6
4
27 78
3
* Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in these statistics  Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201569 68
Performance in focus
Operations
For more on Operations  
see pages 50–55
Sustainability performance  (continued)
GRI G4–LA1: Employee turnover
Apprentices and temporary fixed-term contract employees have been excluded, for accuracy in turnover rate calculation
Under  
26Between  
26 and 45Between  
46 and 55Above  
56 Total
Europe         
Number of new employees hired in 2015 Male 247 259 63 2 571
Female 95 58 9 0 162
Number of employees who left the  
Company in 2015Male 48 90 20 112 270
Female 27 24 6 10 67
Number of employees on   
December 31, 2015Male 333 3,069 2,360 1,000 6,762
Female 47 434 241 99 821
Turnover rate Male 14.4% 2.9% 0.8% 11.2% 4.0%
Female 5 7.4% 5.5% 2.5% 10.1% 8.2%
Under  
26Between  
26 and 45Between  
46 and 55Above  
56 Total
North America
Number of new employees hired in 2015 Male 50 188 57 23 318
Female 16 57 18 4 95
Number of employees who left the  
Company in 2015Male 29 169 63 53 314
Female 7 28 9 6 50
Number of employees on  
December 31, 2015Male 118 1,100 750 426 2,394
Female 13 133 74 58 278
Turnover rate Male 24.6% 15.4% 8.4% 12.4% 13.1%
Female 53.8% 21.1% 12.2% 10.3% 18.0%
Under  
26Between  
26 and 45Between  
46 and 55Above  
56 Total
Asia
Number of new employees hired in 2015 Male 37 49 6 2 94
Female 6 15 1 0 22
Number of employees who left the  
Company in 2015Male 42 36 3 1 82
Female 6 11 0 0 17
Number of employees on  
December 31, 2015Male 67 77 5 1 150
Female 11 30 0 0 41
Turnover rate Male 62.7% 46.8% 60.0% 100% 54.7%
Female 54.5% 36.7% 0% 0% 41.5%
People (continued)
 Water consumption 106 m3
2012 2013 2011 201025.5
26.4
25.7
25.6
24.8
30.0
21.4
8.321.722.222.723.422.5
2.6
2.7
2.6
2.8
2.3
0.8
24.3
21.4
2.6
0.4
0.40.60.40.30.3
2014 2015 
Legacy Constellium201530
2025
15
10
5
Total water Ground water Surface water Water from public net
 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2015 
Legacy Constellium*2015kt CO 2e446416
278
283
287694
403
686
414
701
297
446
307
753
446
258
705
752
434
1,185743
*Compared to 2014, evolution is mostly due to the update of electricity emission factors, based on suppliers’ information, instead of national average emission factors for
   previous years. Figures have been rounded to the nearest kt CO 2eScope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1+21,400
1,0001,200
800
600400200
Production waste Metric tons
201082,491
91,992
95,350
100,914
112,910
78,05186,41079,79478,53990,474
76,62071,938
2,329
5,014
8,840
3,950
4,716
4,876
8,940
25,91910,840
9,628
95,926
78,050
6,662
11,2149,6838,224
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 
Legacy Constellium120,000
100,000
80,00060,00040,00020,000
Total Recycling Incineration Landﬁll
 Air emissions Metric tons
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015461.9
321.0
355.3
455.5
318.4
300.3
490.1
478.6
543.2
979.6
615.4
1,118.0148.8
118.1
115.8
142.9
136.7
293.3
283.7331.3
671.0
175.4
282.0
375.8296.1
290.5307.7
270.1
2015 
Legacy Constellium1,200
8001,000
600
400200
NO Particulate materials SO VOC X 2Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201571 70
Performance in focus
GRI content index Sustainability performance  (continued)
We have achieved full disclosure against the general standard 
disclosures and specific standard disclosures listed below, 
and reported against the mining and mineral sector guidelines 
(which are marked with a *).GRI G4 disclosure
General standard disclosures
DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
Strategy and analysis
G4-1 Statement from the most senior  
decision-maker of the organizationChief Executive Officer insights 2-3
Organizational profile
G4-3 Name of the organization Constellium N.V. (Constellium)
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Business operational performance
Our main brands are: AIRWARE®, SEALIUM®, ALUMOLD®, Surfalex®, 
Formalex®, Strongalex®, Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, 
LONGLINEFINISH®, BUTLERFINISH®, STAYBRIGHTTM, KEIKORTM, AeralTM, 
DokimaTM, Kool XTM and GRIPSTERTM20-24
G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Amsterdam, The Netherlands Back cover
G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Company organization, see also http://www.constellium.com/aluminium-
company/manufacturing-recycling-plants/aluminium-plants-location9
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the highest 
ethical standards and best practices, to be responsive to our shareholders 
and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide Code of Conduct. We are listed on NYSE and on Euronext under the ticker symbol 
‘CSTM’. Shareholders as of December 31, 2015 – free float: 87.82%; 
Bpifrance: 12.18%
G4-8 Markets served How we are organized
Business unit perspectivesMaking our products more sustainable8–9
20–24
38–43
G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Chief Executive Officer insightsHow we are organizedPerformance in focus2–3
8–9
60–70
G4-10 Workforce characteristic Performance in focus 67–68
G4-11 Employees covered by collective 
bargaining agreementsA vast majority of non-US employees and approximately 49% of  
US employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements
G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Value we create 6–7
G4-13 Changes in organization’s size,  
structure, ownership or its supply chainAcquisition of Wise Metals in the US (closing on January 5, 2015) and creation of Astrex JV in Canada (August 2015)
G4-14 Precautionary principle Evaluating the environmental performance of our products
Risk managementReducing environmental riskPreventing pollution on-site41
45
46
54
G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or 
initiatives to which the organization subscribesIn Focus: Aluminium Stewardship Initiative
Memberships36–37
76
G4-16 Membership of associations or organizations Engaging with stakeholdersIn Focus: Aluminium Stewardship InitiativeMemberships35
36–37
76Operations (continued)
Responsible business
For more on Operations  
see pages 56–59
 Code of Conduct training
20139741,1161,136 1,144 1,118
935
2014 201596.0%
Achieved99.8%
Achieved99.3%
Achieved
Number of people targeted Number of people achievedFrom energy consumption to energy efficiency
Raw energy consumption per ton is not necessarily the most relevant indicator of energy efficiency, because we need 
to take into account the effect of different product mixes. For instance, the manufacture of automotive sheet requires 
significantly more energy during rolling and finishing operations than beverage can body sheet. Therefore, increasing 
the share of one product over another will affect the overall energy per ton, independently of any other change. For this reason, we correct our energy efficiency indicator to avoid any bias.
We have identified the relative energy consumption per ton of different product lines and use this to transpose 
raw energy per ton data into an energy efficiency index. This index therefore reflects the intrinsic manufacturing 
performance of our operations, regardless of any changes in our product mix.
At the same time, we also rely on Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) to make sure that we manufacture environmentally 
sound products. We are particularly keen to ensure that products requiring greater energy during manufacture deliver 
greater energy savings during their lifetime.
2010 2011 2012 2013 20142015 Legacy  
Constellium 2015
Indirect energy consumption* (TJ)
Electricity 3,982 4,111 4,071 4,089 4,007 4,017 5,482
Direct energy sources*Anthracite 459 395 439 519 492 500 500
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) 10 10 10 11 13 15 15
Natural gas 6,570 6,463 6,618 7,25 4 7,295 7, 374 13,243
Diesel 115 112 109 114 113 113 119
Heavy fuel 188 190 168 187 182 159 159
Total 7, 3 42 7,170 7, 3 4 4 8,085 8,095 8,161 14,036
Total energy consumption (TJ)In TJ/year 10,890 10,810 10,936 11,677 11,815 11,888 19,222
* This includes, in some cases, our own energy generationBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201573 72
Performance in focus
General standard disclosures (continued)
DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
Organizational profile (continued)
G4-17 Entities included in the organization reports All entities owned by Constellium and all existing joint ventures during 
reporting year 2015. See www.constellium.com/aluminium-company/
manufacturing-recycling-plants/aluminium-plants-location  for the 
detailed list of entities 
G4-18 Reporting principles for defining report content About this report IFC
Identified material aspects and boundaries
G4-19 Process for defining content  
and aspect boundariesOur materiality assessment
See our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at 
www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/version/2/file/
Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf34
G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Our materiality assessment 34
G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Our materiality assessment 34
G4-22 Restatements of information provided  
in earlier reportsNone
Data related to Constellium perimeter outside the acquisition of Muscle 
Shoals plants were provided under the ‘2015 Legacy Constellium’ legend. 
Older data was displayed unchanged 
G4-23 Significant changes from previous  
reporting periods in scope and aspect boundariesAbout this report IFC
Stakeholder engagement
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged  
by the organizationEngaging with stakeholders 
Building partnershipsCommunity involvement  35-37
42-43
48-49
G4-25 Identification and selection  
of stakeholders to engageOur materiality assessment
See our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at 
www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/  
on pages 30 and 39–4134
G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagementEngaging with stakeholders
See our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/version/2/file/
Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf  
on page 3035
G4-27 Key topics collected through 
stakeholder engagementOur materiality assessment 34
Report profile
G4-28 Reporting period About this report IFC
G4-29 Date of the last report Issued in 2015. Available on the sustainability page at www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/version/2/file/ 
Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf 
G4-30 Reporting cycle About this report
IFC
G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report IFC
G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI G4 disclosure index 71-75
G4-33 External assurance About this report IFCGRI content index (continued)
General standard disclosures (continued)
DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
Governance
G4-34 Governance structure Governance 26-30
Ethics and integrity
G4-56 Organization’s values, principles,  
standards and norms of behaviorGovernance
Doing business responsibly29
56-59
Specific standard disclosures
Category: economic
Increase economic performance  
Material aspect: economic performance
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Strategy and markets in focus 10-17
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Performance in focus 61-64
Increase economic performance
G4-EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities for 
the organization’s activities due to climate changeDue to the uncertainty of the effects of climate change it is difficult to quantify its impact. Possible scenarios that could create financial risks for our business include availability of 
water, additional regulation to mitigate climate change, serious weather events causing 
damage to operations and supply chain, and climate warming/cooling trends in different 
regions positively or negatively affecting the sales of finished products in particular 
beverage cans. As a participant since 2013 in the EU ETS (European Union Emission Trading Scheme), changes to this system and a higher price of carbon could have an impact.
There are, however, opportunities related to climate change and associated legislative 
changes. New technology and products which are lightweight and recyclable and are being used to lower fuel emissions in vehicles present an opportunity for aluminium, 
including: increased sales and opening of new markets as well as increasing aluminium share in existing markets, promotion of aluminium for new markets, providing innovative 
solution for customer needs, R&D investment, and expansion of manufacturing facilities. 
Opportunities from the EU ETS include being able to trade excess emissions certificates, 
which would provide an additional income, and no costs except those to reduce emissions 
to the required level to have excess certificates.
Category: environmental
Increase recycling activities  
Material aspect: materials*
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Recycling 42-43
G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that  
are recycled input materialsWe do not consider recycled content as a relevant metrics for environmental 
performance. For more detail, see our recycling brochure, available online at the following address:
http://www.constellium.com/content/download/7813/120379/version/3/
file/Constellium+-+recycling+brochure+-+october+2015.pdf43
Improve energy efficiency of operations  
Material aspect: energy
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Improving our energy efficiency 50-52
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the  
organizationPerformance in focus 70
G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environmental benefits of products 41-42
G4-EN5 Energy intensity Improving our energy efficiency  
At Constellium, ‘energy efficiency’ is the way we define ‘energy intensity’50-51
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Improving our energy efficiency 51-52
G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements  
of products and servicesDeveloping products with environmental benefits 41-42Business and sustainability  
performance report 2015Business and sustainability  
performance report 201574
Performance in focus 75
Specific standard disclosures (continued)
DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page
Ensure safety at work
Reduce psycho-social risks
Reduce use of harmful substances  
Material aspect: safety
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supporting our people 44-49
G4-LA5 Workforce represented in health and 
safety committees100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and safety committees
G4-LA6* Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, 
absenteeism and total number of work-
related fatalitiesIn Focus: EHS
Performance in focus13
66
G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal 
agreements with trade unionsIn Focus: EHS
Supporting our people  
Health and safety topics are covered not only in agreements with trade unions 
but also in our procedures and directives 13
44-49
Develop training and empowerment  
Material aspect: training and education
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Training and empowerment 46-48
G4-L A11 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviewsEngaging with our employees
Our professional grade employees receive annual performance and career 
development through the new global HR platform, Success Factors. This has 
been extended to some supervisory levels in France
All other employees receive an annual performance review but this is done on 
 
a site-by-site basis and tracked centrally for all managers48
Sub-category: human rights
Promote and enforce ethical business practices  
Material aspect: non-discrimination
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Doing business responsibly 56-59
G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenNo discrimination incidents or non-compliances in this respect have been reported to the Group level through the formal compliance process in 
the course of the year. In case of incidents on site level or allegations of 
discrimination on grounds of race, age, color, sex, religion, political opinion, 
national extraction or social origin, they have been reviewed and dealt 
with in line with the applicable legal and management review processes. Where appropriate, the necessary corrective actions have been defined and 
put in place by the local management in charge.
Material aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engaging with our employees 48
G4-HR4 Risks to the right to exercise freedom  
of association and collective bargainingNone identified
Sub-category: product responsibility
Innovation
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Innovation
Environmental benefits of productsRecycling39-40
41-42
42-43
Customer satisfaction
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Customer satisfaction 39GRI content index (continued)
Specific standard disclosures (continued)
Category: environmental (continued)
Reduce greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions  
Material aspect: emissions
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 52-53
G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Performance in focus 69
G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Performance in focus 69
G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 52-53
G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded in the reporting year
G4-EN21 NO X, SO 2, and other significant air emissions Performance in focus 69
Reduce waste from operations
Prevent pollution from operations  
Material aspect: effluents and waste
G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Preventing pollution on-siteReducing waste sent to landfill 54
54-55
G4-EN22 Water discharge Performance in focus 69
G4-EN23 Waste disposal Performance in focus 69
G4-EN24 Significant spills No major spills recorded in the reporting year
Develop products with environmental benefits  
Material aspect: products and services
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environmental benefits of products 41-42
G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products 
and servicesLife Cycle Assessments 41-42
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach In Focus: Aluminium Stewardship Initiative
Doing business responsibly36-37
56-59
G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total 
number of non-monetary sanctions for 
non-compliance with environmental laws 
and regulationsNone recorded in the reporting year
Engage suppliers in sustainability performance  
Material aspect: supplier sustainability
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Assessing the sustainability performance of our suppliers 57-59
G4-EN32 Suppliers screened using environmental criteria No quantitative data available yet, screening in progress
Assessing the sustainability performance of our suppliers 57-59
Category: social
Sub-category: labor practices and decent work
Improve employee satisfaction  
Material aspect: employment
G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supporting our people 45-48
G4-L A1 Number and rates of new employee hires and 
employee turnoverPerformance in focus 68
G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employeesPart-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; temporary workers are not eligible for the same benefits. Some select benefits related to 
health insurance are granted depending on seniority
Material aspect: labor/management relations
G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engaging with our stakeholders
Engaging with our employees35
48
G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding  
operational changesThe minimum notice period changes depending on the country of operation and 
is based on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question
G4-MM4* Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one  
week’s durationNone recorded in the reporting yearBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 201576
Membership Has positions in governanceParticipates in 
projects and 
committees
Aluminum Association (AA) Member Yes
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI)Member of Standards  
Committee, Catherine Athènes Yes
ARPAL, Spain Member No
Association Française de l’Aluminium (AFA) President, Béatrice Charon Yes
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No
Cercle de l’Industrie Member No
Emballages et Bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM) Member No
European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member Yes
European Aluminium Chairman, Pierre Vareille Yes
France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) President, Raphaël Thevenin Yes
Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of the Board, Dieter Höll Yes
Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques et  
Spatiales (GIFAS)Member No
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) No No
International Aluminium Institute (IAI) No Yes
La Boîte Boisson (BCME) Member Yes
Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) Member No
Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes, emballages  
et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM)Member Yes
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No
Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of the Board, Dieter Höll YesMemberships
This report contains statements  
that relate to future events  
and expectations and as such 
constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning  
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Forward-looking statements  
include those statements containing 
such words as ‘expects’, ‘intends’, 
‘plans’, ‘scheduled’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘will’, or other words of 
similar meaning. All statements that reflect 
Constellium’s expectations, 
assumptions or projections 
about the future other than statements of historical fact are 
forward -looking statements. 
The forward-looking statements 
contained in this report are subject to a number of known and unknown 
risks, uncertainties and other factors 
and are not guarantees  
of future performance. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those 
set forth under the heading ‘Risk 
Factors’ in our Annual Report on Form 20-F, and described from 
time to time in subsequent reports, 
filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Constellium disclaims any obligation 
to update publicly any forward-
looking statements, whether in response to new information, future 
events or otherwise, except as 
required by applicable law.
This report was released in June 2016
Coordination: 
Corporate Communications Department and 
Sustainability Council.
Design and production: 
Radley Yeldar | www.ry.comPhotography credits:Airbus
All ContentsG. BrooksA. DoyenEuropean Aluminium Association
Getty Images
 J. GoldsteiniStockT. LangMacgregor Associates Architects
Master Image Programmes
H. Raguet  Rio TintoG. UférasC. WilliamsPrint: 
Printed by Pureprint Group on FSC
® 
certified paper.
Pureprint Group is an EMAS certified company 
and its Environmental Management System is 
certified to ISO 14001. 
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 
95% of press chemicals are recycled for 
further use and on average 99% of any waste 
associated with this production will be recycled. 
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk 100; 
process chlorine free (PCF) paper containing 100% recycled fibre approved by the FSC
®.Forward-looking statementsBusiness and sustainability  
performance report 2015 77