BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY   
PERFORMANCE REPORT 2019
EVERYDAY INSIDEEVERYDAY INSIDE
Shared value  
12 Value Chain  
14 CEO Interview  
16 Locations & Business Units  
18 Governance  
22 Manufacturing Excellence  
24 Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS)
Business value
26 Business Highlights  
28 Packaging  
30 Aerospace  
32 Automotive  
34 Industry, Transportation, and Defense
Sustainable value
37 Sustainability Targets 
38 Sustainability Highlights 
40 Materiality Assessment 
42 Recycling Rates 
43 Customer Satisfaction 
44 Safety Records 
45 Learning & Development 
46 Communities 
47 Waste Reduction 
48 Energy Efficiency 
49 Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 
50 Sustainable Purchasing 
51 Human Rights 
52 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Performance report
55 Financial Statements 
59 Sustainability Performance 
67 GRI This report covers 2019 business and sustainability achievements 
and was developed before the 2020 Covid-19 crisis. Content, including 
business and market updates, EHS and sustainability policies and 
related action plans, does not take into account the impact and 
consequences of this pandemic on our business.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
02Everyday 
inside
It is the train that 
takes us to work every 
morning and brings us 
home at night. The car 
that allows us to safely 
transport our children. 
The plane that flies us 
to the other side of the 
world to connect with 
our family. Aluminium, 
one of the planet’s most 
abundant elements, is 
also a major element in 
our daily lives, making 
our products lighter, 
safer, and cleaner. It is a 
cold drink from a can on 
a summer day, and it is 
the cans in our kitchen 
cupboard keeping food flavorful. It is the space 
satellite that enables 
us to telephone a friend 
anytime we want (and 
even the rocket that 
carried the satellite 
into orbit). Not only is 
aluminium ubiquitous, 
it can be endlessly 
recycled. Which means 
we will reuse this vital 
material all around us 
to build an even lighter, 
brighter, and more 
sustainable future.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
03Back to 
Beginnings 
Aluminium can be endlessly recycled 
while maintaining its material 
properties, which is why 75% of the 
aluminium produced since its discovery 
is still in use today . Constellium is an 
industry leader in the sustainable 
production and recycling of aluminium 
products. Working with our clients, 
we collect and recycle manufacturing 
process metal and end-of-life scrap, and 
we continually improve our processes to 
build the most efficient recycling loops.ALUMINIUM IS 
 10 0% 
RECYCLABLE   
without a reduction  
in quality
04
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019A Virtuous 
CycleAN ALUMINIUM CAN 
TAKES AS LITTLE AS60 
DAYS  to return as a 
new can after recycling
Aluminium cans are the most 
recycled beverage containers, 
infinitely reborn in a “closed loop” 
process and back on the shelf  
in 60 days. Plastic is typically 
downcycled into products such  
as carpet fibers, if it doesn’t  
end up in the ocean.  
At Constellium, we have the 
capacity to recycle the equivalent 
of 32 billion cans a year. 
05
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019* SOURCE: Aluminum AssociationAccelerating 
Clean 
Mobility
Aluminium is a favorite material of 
carmakers, and Constellium supplies 
the automotive market with a range of 
products that we manufacture in 20+ 
factories worldwide. Aluminium provides 
superior energy absorption, to protect 
passengers and vehicles in the event 
of a collision. Strong and lightweight, it 
helps improve fuel economy, reduce CO2 
emissions, and increase electric vehicle 
range, for greener mobility .  20% 
REDUCTION IN TOTAL 
LIFE CYCLE ENERGY  
consumption for an 
aluminium-intensive 
vehicle*
06
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019One of our largest plants, in Singen, 
Germany, has been certified against 
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 
(ASI) standards. This important seal 
of approval means that Singen is able 
to supply independently certified, 
responsibly sourced, and sustainably 
manufactured aluminium products. 
As a proud founding member of ASI, 
Constellium is working towards 
certification of our other facilities. Certifiably 
Sustainable  ~200kt 
ALUMINIUM ROLLED  
PRODUCTS CAPACITY  
at Singen is now 
ASI certified 
07
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019Reaching for  
New Heights  70% 
OF PLANES flying 
today contain 
components made 
from our aluminium
Since the beginning of the 20th century, 
aircraft manufacturers have chosen 
aluminium for its light weight, strength, 
and corrosion resistance. Constellium 
supplies the industry’s highest flyers 
with the most advanced aluminium 
alloys, including our Airware® aluminium-
lithium alloys. We use precision casting 
to customize engine components and 
structural parts. Our pre-machining 
services reduce waste and customer 
costs. These solutions and others make 
the sky the limit for the next generation of 
lighter, faster, more fuel-efficient planes.
08
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019On the  
Right Track  76% 
LESS GREENHOUSE  
GAS EMISSIONS
per mile generated by 
subways than by cars*
Switching to public transportation is one of 
the most effective actions individuals can 
take to reduce their carbon footprint. On 
average, heavy rail transit such as subways 
and metros produce 76% less greenhouse 
gas emissions per passenger mile than a 
typical single-occupancy vehicle. Moreover, 
by reducing congestion, rail transit reduces 
emissions from cars stuck in traffic. As rail 
networks expand and modernize around the 
world, manufacturers rely on Constellium’s 
lightweight solutions to make trains, trams, 
and subway systems for the 21st century .
* U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Transit Administration
09
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019OUR TARGET:    
 ZERO 
ACCIDENTS 
No Room for 
Compromise 
Safety is our number one priority  
at Constellium, and at the heart  
of everything we do. We want every 
employee, visitor, and contractor  
to return home safely every day .  
Our Recordable Case Rate (RCR)  
is one of the best in the industry . 
We continue to develop awareness, 
communication, and training in our 
relentless pursuit of zero incidents.
10
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019Aluminium is all around us, a miracle metal that combines 
strength, lightness, and endless recyclability . It can be made 
thin enough to be crushed by human hands, yet stand up to 
the rigors of the stratosphere. From beverage cans to pickup 
trucks, fuselages to space launchers, Constellium constantly 
explores the many ways to transform this material and help 
build a more brilliant future. Shared  
valueThis report covers 2019 business and sustainability achievements and was developed 
before the 2020 Covid-19 crisis. Content, including business and market updates,  
EHS and sustainability policies and related action plans, does not take into account  
the impact and consequences of this pandemic on our business.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
11Aluminium is one of the world’s most abundant elements, a vital 
material for the 21st century and beyond. Here we show how it is 
produced, used, and recycled, and Constellium's role in the process.OUR ROLE
RECYCLING1
62EXTRACTING, REFINING, 
AND SMEL TINGTo produce the world’s most widely 
used non-ferrous metal, mined bauxite 
is refined into alumina, then pure 
aluminium is extracted via the Hall-
Héroult electrochemical process. 
We recycle scrap from our 
processes, our customers’ 
processes, and at the end  
of a product’s life. We 
seek to improve recycling 
through partnerships 
with stakeholders, since 
aluminium can be endlessly 
recycled and retain  
its material properties. We add other metals to 
molten aluminium to create 
customized alloys, and cast 
them into molded products, 
ingots, billets, and slabs. 
We extrude billets to make 
products such as Crash 
Management Systems.  
We roll slabs into plates, 
sheets, and coils, to be used 
for cans, car hoods, airplane 
wings, and more.CASTING,  
ROLLING, AND  
EXTRUSIONCreating value throughout  
the life cycle of aluminium
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
1253
4Experts at our C-TEC 
Technology Center, Plymouth 
hub, and Brunel University 
Technology Center work  
with our customers  
to design and develop 
innovative and sustainable 
aluminium solutions. 
Our longstanding customers, 
primarily in the aerospace, 
packaging, and automotive 
sectors, use our products 
and solutions in a range of 
applications for improved 
strength, durability, lightness, 
and fuel consumption.
Aluminium recycling makes 
good economic and ecological 
sense. Our facilities have 
stringent procedures for  
the efficient collection and 
sorting of end-of-life scrap, 
which is crucial for effective 
recycling. We offer similar 
services to customers.PRODUCT  
DESIGN AND  
MANUFACTURING
COLLECTING  
AND SORTINGPRODUCT  
USE
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
13Jean-Marc Germain, 
Chief Executive Officer
“Capital allocation 
is essential, but  
our future depends 
first on our  
people.”
How did Constellium perform in 2019? 
2019 was another good year, with our Adjusted 
EBITDA and Free Cash Flow significantly exceeding 
our initial guidance. Packaging & Automotive Rolled 
Products and Aerospace & Transportation performed 
extremely well, with strong performance at Muscle 
Shoals and successful automotive ramp-ups at 
Bowling Green and Neuf-Brisach. Ravenswood and 
Issoire each had a very good year, with favorable 
market conditions in the United States and great 
progress on cost control and inventory management. 
Automotive Structures faced some challenges, but I 
am confident in our ability to recover thanks to the 
rigorous action plan we have rolled out.
Shortly after my arrival in 2016, we established a goal 
of positive Free Cash Flow in 2019. Our success in 
reaching this goal allowed us to pay down €100 million 
of our bonds and finance the acquisition of Bowling 
Green. We expect to generate significant and 
sustainable free cash flow in the future. Over time, 
deleveraging will provide us with the financial 
flexibility to seize opportunities and to stand firm in 
challenging market conditions. 
As for EHS, our Recordable Case Rate continues to 
be well below our 2.61 target*. However, we 
experienced a tragic fatality at De ˇcˇín. This is clearly 
unacceptable. In response, we are strengthening our existing Serious Injuries Prevention program and 
launching a new company-wide training program to 
promote behavioral change, called “See Something, 
Say Something. ” Employees must recognize safety-
related issues and speak up when they do. 
How are your end markets performing? 
Packaging, automotive, and aerospace are three 
secular growth markets representing ~80% of our 
revenue in 2019. In each of these markets, we mostly 
have long-term agreements with our customers. This 
lends diversification and stability to our business, 
while providing a robust foundation for our growth. 
We see increasing opportunities in the packaging 
market as recycling and reducing plastic waste 
become societal priorities. We expect aluminium 
cans, which can be recycled indefinitely, to stand out 
as the preferred material.
We believe that increased aluminium use is a secular 
trend for the automotive market, as carmakers are drawn 
to aluminium’s lightweighting and energy absorption 
capabilities. We anticipate this trend will grow along with 
more stringent emission regulations and higher demand 
for hybrid and electric vehicles. Aerospace remains a 
solid market, with global passenger traffic predicted to 
rise. We continue to develop our aluminium-lithium offer, 
Airware®, while also reducing cost and complexity for our SHARED VALUE
Interview
* Our Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments 
per one million hours worked, including by our contractors.  
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
14customers with services such as pre-machining and 
closed loop recycling. Most importantly, our relationships 
with our customers go back decades, and we work closely 
with them to co-design, develop, and engineer their 
products. These strong, long-term partnerships are a 
key aspect of our strategy. 
Constellium transferred its headquarters  
in 2019. Why? 
This move was in line with our goal to reduce costs 
and simplify our corporate structure. For the same 
reasons, we also delisted from Euronext. By moving 
to France, we aligned our corporate structure with our 
major industrial operations, since we had no 
operations in the Netherlands. We expect this 
transfer to generate tax savings, and it will not affect 
how we conduct our business.
What are your priorities in terms of 
sustainability? 
Constellium has long placed sustainability at the core 
of our business. We are an industry leader in the 
production and recycling of aluminium products, which 
are inherently sustainable—lightweight, durable, and 
infinitely recyclable. We continue to reinforce our 
sustainability commitments. I am very proud of Singen’s 
ASI certification and look forward to having additional 
sites certified in the coming years. I am also happy to 
see that our energy saving and landfilled waste 
reduction programs are leading us closer to our 2020 
reduction targets. We are focusing on environmental 
risks as well, with an increased monitoring policy. 
How are you preparing for the next decade? 
Our first priority is our people and their safety, and we 
continue to aim for zero accidents. We strive to make 
our employees proud and excited to work for 
Constellium. I am convinced that sustainability will 
become an increasingly critical component of who we 
are, what we do, and how we do it. That is why we are 
developing a comprehensive sustainability strategy for 
the next 10 years, which we expect to announce in 2021. 
Capital allocation is also essential to our long-term 
success. We will continue to invest in the reliability and 
integrity of our assets to achieve the level of quality 
demanded by our customers and further improve our 
competitiveness. Cash generation remains an utmost 
priority; we will be disciplined about our spending to 
reduce our debt, increase our financial flexibility, and 
selectively consider growth opportunities. Capital 
allocation is essential, but our future depends first on our people. We rely on talented people and on a company 
culture based on shared values—safety, respect, trust, 
transparency, collaboration, and empowerment. We 
provide our employees with career development 
opportunities, and have recently introduced a 
Constellium Engineering Development Program and a 
Global Leadership Training Program to build our talent 
pipeline. I am eager to see many more internal and 
external recruits and leaders go through these 
ambitious training courses.
Preparing for the future also means sustainable 
investment in R&D to maintain our leadership 
position, as we need to implement disruptive and 
innovative processes and solutions. For example, 
with Digital@Constellium, we are investigating how 
new technologies can help us improve our industrial 
processes to work more safely and efficiently. 
I am very excited about our opportunities over the next 
decade, as we deliver on our plan while taking full 
advantage of the inherent benefits of aluminium. 
Adjusted 
EBITDA 
growthmillion   
Free Cash Flow6  to  9%€125   
to 1752020 TARGETS *
million 
Adjusted 
EBITDA€700+
net debt/  
Adjusted 
EBITDA2.5 x2022 TARGETS *COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS 
GLOBAL COMPACT
For the eighth consecutive year we support the Ten Principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, 
labor, environment, and anti-corruption. 
* Targets as of December 31, 2019. Given the continuously evolving nature of the COVID-19 
pandemic, Constellium withdrew all financial guidance on April 2020.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
15REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA* EMPLOYEES
€5.9B €562M ~13,000
5.2
20175.7
20185.9
2019+4%448
2017498
2018562
2019+13%■   France
■   North America
■   Germany■   Eastern Europe 
and other regions
■   Switzerland
20%10%6%SHARED VALUE
A global sector leader
29%35%
* Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure. ” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income, ” see the 20-F form.  Manufacturing sites         R&D centers 
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
16* Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure. ” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income, ” see the 20-F form.PACKAGING AND AUTOMOTIVE  
ROLLED PRODUCTS
Provides aluminium sheets and coils for packaging applications 
(beverage and food cans, closures, foilstock, cosmetics), specialty 
products (functional surfaces and industry products), as well 
as automotive solutions, including Auto Body Sheet. In addition, 
the business unit recycles end-of-life products, such as used 
beverage cans.
RECYCLING ROLLED 
PRODUCTS2,812
20173,059
20183, 149
2019204
2017243
2018273
2019REVENUE
(in millions of euros)ADJUSTED EBITDA*
(in millions of euros)
1,335
20171,389
20181,462
2019146
2017152
2018204
2019REVENUE
(in millions of euros)ADJUSTED EBITDA*
(in millions of euros)
AUTOMOTIVE STRUCTURES AND INDUSTRY 
Provides advanced solutions for the global automotive 
industry, including Crash Management Systems (CMS), 
structural components, battery enclosures, and other safety 
parts and extrusions. This business unit also manufactures a 
wide range of hard and soft alloy extrusions, as well as large 
profiles for road and rail transportation, energy, and other 
industrial applications.
AUTOMOTIVE 
COMPONENTSEXTRUDED 
PRODUCTSADJUSTED EBITDA*
(in millions of euros)
120
2017125
2018106
2019REVENUE
(in millions of euros)
1, 123
20171,290
20181,351
2019AEROSPACE AND TRANSPORTATION 
Provides technologically advanced aluminium alloys with wide 
applications across the global aerospace, transportation, 
industry, and defense sectors. This business unit offers a wide 
range of products including plates, sheets, extrusions, and 
precision sand castings. Aerospace and Transportation also 
provides tailored solutions and value-added services to its 
customers, such as pre-machining and customer scrap recycling.
PLATES ROLLED 
PRODUCTS
EXTRUDED 
PRODUCTSRECYCLING
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
17SHARED VALUE
Governance
Director independence  
We maintain a one-tier Board of Directors consisting 
of an Executive Director and Non-Executive Directors 
(each a “Director”). 
Under French law, there are no separate indepen-
dence requirements for French companies whose 
shares are not listed on an EU-regulated market, so 
we defer to the NYSE requirements. As a foreign pri-
vate issuer under the NYSE rules, we are not  required 
to have independent Directors on our Board, except 
to the extent that our audit committee is  required to 
consist of independent Directors.
However, our Board has determined that, under 
current NYSE listing standards regarding indepen-
dence, and taking into account any applicable com-
mittee standards, as of December 31, 2019, Messrs. 
Evans, Brandjes, Guillemot* , Hartman, Maugis, 
Ormerod, Paschke, and Mmes. Walker, Brooks, and 
Frachet are deemed independent Directors. Under 
these standards, Mr. Germain is not deemed inde-
pendent as he serves as the CEO of the Company.Board meetings in 2019 
The Board of Directors held six meetings and 
 reviewed a number of matters, including: commit-
tee reports; reports from the CEO (including envi-
ronmental, health & safety, markets and compe-
tition) and from the CFO and the Group’s General 
Counsel; conversion and relocation of the Group’s 
corporate headquarters; review and approval in 
2019 of the 2018 Annual Accounts and Form 20-F 
filing with the SEC; approval of the agenda items for 
the General Meetings of shareholders; approval of 
 executive  remuneration and remuneration policy 
for Non-Executive Directors; reports from business 
units; review of Company strategy and strategic 
 opportunities; R&D review; review of the sustainabil -
ity program; review of 2020 budget; finance reports; 
presentation on investor perception, and Board and 
Directors’ third-party evaluation results. 
Audit Committee 
Held eight meetings 
and consisted of four 
Directors: 
• Lori A. Walker (Chair)
• Martha Brooks 
• John Ormerod 
• Werner P . Paschke Human Resources 
and Remuneration 
Committee 
Held four meetings 
and consisted of four 
Directors: 
• Martha Brooks (Chair)
• Richard B. Evans 
• Peter F . Hartman 
• Guy Maugis Nominating Governance 
Committee
Held four meetings 
and consisted of four 
Directors: 
• Richard B. Evans (Chair) 
• Michiel Brandjes 
• John Ormerod 
• Lori A. WalkerEnvironment, Health,  
and Safety Committee 
Held two meetings 
and consisted of three 
Directors: 
• Guy Maugis (Chair) 
• Michiel Brandjes 
• Peter F . Hartman OUR COMMITTEES **
* Resigned as of December 13, 2019
** As of December 31, 2019
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
18Policies
Code of Conduct 
Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business 
Conduct sets out the standard of behavior we ex -
pect from our employees. The Code governs the 
way Constellium acts in business. It was refreshed 
in 2019, reinforcing the standard of anti-corruption 
and Human Rights and Labor Practices. It concerns 
all Constellium employees, subject to applicable 
local law. Compliance with the Code is essential to 
preserving and enhancing the Company’s reputation 
as a responsible corporate citizen and, ultimately, 
to maximizing stakeholder value. For suppliers, we 
have developed a specific Code of Conduct.
Supplier Code of Conduct 
Our dedicated Responsible Supply Chain Manage-
ment Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct, aligned 
with UNGC principles, applies to Constellium’s sup-
pliers, subsidiaries, consultants, contractors, and 
affiliates. It relies on commitment, assessment, and 
progress.
We ask key suppliers to perform a desktop-based 
assessment every three years using the EcoVadis 
platform, and we perform an onsite workplace 
audit every three years for locations or sectors 
at greater risk. We organize webinars to train our 
suppliers, and provide training to our procurement 
teams to ensure the assessment is well imple-
mented. We consider supplier assessment as an opportunity to work together for continuous im-
provement. All our suppliers are asked to sign our 
Supplier Code of Conduct.
Whistleblower policy 
Our whistleblower policy fosters an environment 
where our employees can act without fear of retal -
iation and report to an official any wrongdoing or 
suspected wrongdoing; corruption; or irregularity 
in finance, accounting, or banking that concerns 
Constellium. To facilitate this reporting, we have es-
tablished an external hotline in all the countries in 
which we have operations, and in various languages. 
Insider Trading policy 
We have an Insider Trading policy which sets out the 
restrictions on trading in Constellium securities and 
the use of inside information.
Sustainability Council 
The Sustainability Council is a formal body whose 
members are responsible for guiding Constellium 
towards our 2020 sustainability goals. The Council has 
a cross-functional role and meets three to four times a 
year. The sustainability team liaises with the Executive 
Committee throughout the year through an Executive 
Committee member: the Senior Vice President, Public 
Affairs, Communication, and Sustainability. 
This year, through four dedicated sessions, the 
Sustainability Council delivered presentations to the 
Executive Committee on human rights risks in the aluminium value chain, as well as on the definition 
of a GHG emissions reduction target for scope 1 
and 2. A presentation was made to the Board in 
December 2019.
Communication and Training 
In 2019, we launched a new e-learning training 
module on sustainability. We continued our ongoing 
face-to-face training sessions with our sales and 
purchasing teams. Sustainability was also a key 
focus of our new employee onboarding program. CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING
20151,1 4 4 1, 136
20161,301 1,298
20171,362 1,362
20181,5541,477
20191,753 1,703
  Number of people targeted         Number of people trained 
* In 2019 we had 
50 exceptional 
cases, for reasons 
including ma-
ternity and sick 
leave, retirement, 
and long-term 
disability.99.3% 
achieved99.8% 
achieved100% 
achieved95% 
achieved97 . 1% 
achieved*
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
19Guy Maugis 
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board  
of Directors since January 2011 
Werner P . Paschke
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board  
of Directors since May 2013
John Ormerod 
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board  
of Directors since June 2014
Stéphanie Frachet
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of  
Directors since May 2018
Martha Brooks 
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2016
Jean-Marc Germain
Executive Director 
Executive Director of our Board 
of Directors since June 2016 
and Chief Executive Officer 
since July 2016
Philippe Guillemot*
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since May 2013
Lori A. Walker
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board  
of Directors since June 2014Richard B. Evans  
Chairman 
Chairman of our Board  
since December 2012 and  
a member of our Board of  
Directors since January 2011Michiel Brandjes
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of 
Directors since June 2014
Peter F . Hartman
Non-Executive Director 
Member of our Board of   
Directors since June 2014Board of Directors
The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the management of the Company, 
the general conduct of the Company’s business, and its corporate governance 
structure. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance to the 
Executive Director, who is entrusted with the day-to-day management of the Company.SHARED VALUE
* Resigned as of December 13, 2019
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
20Jeremy Leach
Senior Vice President and 
Group General Counsel
Ingrid Joerg
President, Aerospace and 
Transportation business unit
Peter Basten
President, Packaging and 
Automotive Rolled Products 
business unit
Peter R. Matt
Executive Vice President  
and Chief Financial Officer
Nicolas Brun 
Senior Vice President, Public 
Affairs, Communications,  
and Sustainability
Vittorio Rossetti
Vice President and 
Chief Information OfficerPaul Warton 
President, Automotive  
Structures and Industry  
business unitJean-Marc Germain
Chief Executive Officer
Jack Clark
Senior Vice President,  
Manufacturing Excellence  
and Chief Technical OfficerThe Executive Committee focuses on strategy, financial management, commercial 
development, program execution, organizational evolution, and Group-wide policies. 
Together, they have close to 200 years of experience in the aluminium industry.Executive Committee
Ryan Jurkovic
Senior Vice President and  
Chief Human Resources Officer
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
21“Manufacturing 
Excellence means 
producing our goods 
in the safest and 
most efficient way, 
on time, and to the 
most stringent 
quality standards. ”
EHS first
Safety is the first priority for Constellium 
and the primary objective of our Manu-
facturing Excellence program. 
(See page 24.)
Harvesting our past investments
We have made strong investments in our 
industrial platform to build our future 
growth. Our Manufacturing Excellence 
program ensures that we fully realize the 
benefits of these investments by optimiz -
ing our strong manufacturing platform of 
more than 25 plants with unique produc -
tion capabilities.
We are highly focused on maximizing the 
throughput of our facilities to increase the 
tons and profitability per machine hour. We strive to achieve this by investing in 
asset integrity, and through continuous 
improvements in our operations, such as 
debottlenecking and optimizing equip -
ment uptime, recovery, and mill speed. 
We consider our facilities to be one inte -
grated industrial platform, and constant -
ly review our product portfolio to optimize 
our asset utilization. Our Manufacturing 
Excellence team works with our plants 
and R&D centers towards this goal.
Regular maintenance is essential to 
ensure the level of quality and reliabil -
ity that our customers require, and we 
implement capital upgrades whenever 
necessary. For example, we installed 
a new coiler on the hot finishing line at 
our Ravenswood plant to improve relia -bility and quality of sheet production for 
end markets such as truck trailers and 
pleasure boats. At Singen, we replaced 
the automation system of the hot line 
to stabilize the production process, im -
prove quality, and maximize productivi -
ty. These upgrades are crucial to reliably 
manufacture our products to the highest 
quality and at the lowest possible cost.
Selectively adding capacity
We continue to expand our manufac-
turing capabilities with selected growth 
projects, based on customer contracts 
and market needs. For example, we have 
been successfully expanding our auto-
motive capacities at some of our plants 
and have opened new locations. 
Making the most of our manufacturing assetsSHARED VALUE
Manufacturing Excellence
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
22• We have increased our Auto Body Sheet 
capacity by 200kt thanks to the success-
ful ramp-up of new CALP lines at Bowling 
Green and Neuf-Brisach.
• Production of automotive structures 
has started at our new plants in Žilina, 
Slovakia and Vigo, Spain.
• New extrusion presses at De ˇcˇín, Levice, 
and Singen serve the needs of our au-
tomotive structures plants in Europe. 
Deˇcˇín’s press is now operating, while Sin-
gen's and Levice’s presses are slated to 
start running by mid-2020.
Preserving cash 
Manufacturing Excellence is also about 
increasing the recovery of our products, 
reducing our input costs, optimizing in-
ventory, and improving energy usage. 
Manufacturing Excellence was a major 
contributor to our “Project 2019” cash 
improvement initiative.
• At Issoire, a cross-functional team (in-
cluding members from process, quality, 
production, commercial, supply chain, 
and finance) has developed a better plate 
recovery process, leading to savings of 
€7 million over two years. 
• Ravenswood has decreased its invento-
ry by €15 million thanks to disciplined in-
ventory management. This includes daily 
meetings to review inventory levels, as well 
as shop floor inventory walks.
Constellium is taking advantage of new technologies to improve the 
way we operate. For example, a new C-TEC pilot project uses artificial 
intelligence for worker safety at our manufacturing sites, reducing the 
inherent risk associated with mobile equipment. AI can detect when 
forklifts are in the vicinity of pedestrians, warning both parties before 
a potentially dangerous situation occurs. 
We are also digitizing industrialization of Airware® to optimize 
production in real time and identify key process parameter 
interactions. Digital technology allows us to minimize the occurrence 
of defects and the need for systematic inspections. GETTING A BOOST FROM INDUSTRY 4.0
A NETWORK FOR THE ROLLING COMMUNITY
Reestablished in 2019, the network comprises process and quality 
engineers, lubrication engineers, APU managers, and rolling/ 
lubrication specialists from C-TEC—all dedicated to sharing expertise 
and best practices. Alongside the online community, the network 
brought together more than 20 engineers for a week of tours and 
seminars at our U.S. facilities in Ravenswood, West Virginia and 
Muscle Shoals, Alabama. 
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
23Environment, Health,  
& Safety
“Our first priority 
remains safety .  
 We will continue 
the implementation 
of our SIF (Serious 
Injury and Fatality) 
program and 
will engage our 
leadership and our 
workforce on the 
shop floor to address 
safety risks. ”
Jack Clark
Senior Vice President, 
Manufacturing Excellence  
and Chief Technical Officer How do you consider your 2019 
safety performance? 
I am proud to report that our safety re-
cord has improved significantly over the 
past three years. Our recordable injuries 
rate has decreased from 3.31 in 2016 to 
2.40 in 2019—well below our target of 
2.61 in 2019. This means that more of 
our colleagues are returning home inju-
ry-free, day after day. We remain on track 
to reduce our recordable case rate by 
10% year after year.
This achievement is clearly attributable 
to the continued implementation of our 
global Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) 
program. In 2019, we conducted a second 
round of audits and coaching to make 
sure we continue to address situations 
that present the greatest safety risks. 
However, we cannot be satisfied with 
these results as we tragically lost one of 
our colleagues in a workplace incident in 
2019. We must focus more on the hows 
and whys of unsafe practices, and en-
courage employees to speak up when 
they witness risky behavior. How were Constellium’s  
environmental results in 2019? 
On environment, we further reinforced 
our reporting system to increase atten-
tion on near miss incidents* . While we 
have not had a significant environmental 
incident at any of our sites in years, we 
continue to increase surveillance and 
monitor risks.
Waste management and energy effi-
ciency remain two key areas of focus 
for the EHS team to reach our 2020 tar -
gets, and we have made good progress 
in 2019 in reducing waste to landfill and 
energy consumption. 
What are your priorities  
for 2020?
Our first priority remains safety. We will 
continue the implementation of our SIF 
program and will engage our leadership 
and our workforce on the shop floor to 
address safety risks and ensure compli -
ance with our safety “Golden Rules. ” But 
success in safety also depends on indi -
vidual behaviors and actions. This is why 
in 2020 we will be rolling out a new glob-
al campaign and training program, “See 
Something, Say Something. ” It is critical 
that we help employees recognize safe-
ty-related issues of all types and speak 
up when they do. 
On the environmental side, we will continue 
to work on improving our risk assessment 
and reporting. Our focus will also be on 
improving our performance in energy con-
sumption and reducing landfilled waste.
Interview with Jack Clark, Senior Vice President,  
Manufacturing Excellence and Chief Technical OfficerSHARED VALUE
* A near miss incident is an unplanned event that had no negative impact on the environment.EHS workshop in Issoire, France
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
24Our customers are the best at what they do, and they expect the 
best from us. We shine in vastly diverse markets, from screw caps 
to braking systems. Our long-term relationships with the world’s 
top manufacturers reflect the quality of our advanced products 
and customized services, our skilled workers, our cutting-edge 
research centers, and our 28 manufacturing sites. Business  
valueThis report covers 2019 business and sustainability achievements and was developed  
before the 2020 Covid-19 crisis. Content, including business and market updates,  
EHS and sustainability policies and related action plans, does not take into account  
the impact and consequences of this pandemic on our business.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
25Groupe PSA:  
partners old and new
Two important events in 2019 marked Constellium’s 
20-plus-year partnership with French auto manufacturer 
Groupe PSA. In May, it was announced that Constellium 
would supply aluminium Auto Body Sheet for the new 
models of the PEUGEOT Partner, Citroën 
Berlingo van, Citroën Berlingo, and PEUGEOT 
Rifter vans. (This would also represent 
Groupe PSA’s first use of aluminium Auto 
Body Sheet for light commercial vehicles.) 
In June, Constellium received the Groupe 
PSA 2019 Supplier Award in the “Corporate 
Social Responsibility” category . The award 
was further recognition of our deep and 
multifaceted commitment to sustainability, 
including our responsible supply chain 
policies and energy efficiency program.Getting smarter with 
Industry 4.0 
The Smart Process Lab, created by Constellium 
Valais and the local Haute Ecole d’Ingénierie  
to improve manufacturing through digitalization, 
launched its first two R&D projects in 2019.  
The “Unique Stability Plates” project uses AI to 
study aluminium plate production data, optimize 
processes, and fine-tune product quality .  
The second project aims to develop a new type  
of intelligent sensor, which will be installed  
on overhead cranes and improve logistics  
by creating digital models of stock. In the future, 
the lab will also focus on ways to save  
energy during production.BUSINESS VALUE  
Business Highlights
Blue Origin story 
Reinforcing our position as a trusted partner in the 
space industry, Constellium signed a multi-year 
contract to support the launch vehicle programs 
of Blue Origin, the privately-funded American 
aerospace manufacturer and spaceflight services 
company. A new milestone in our collaboration with 
Blue Origin, the agreement states that Constellium  
will supply the company’s massive orbital rocket,  
New Glenn, with Airware® advanced aluminium 
plates and sheets from our plants in Issoire, France 
and Ravenswood, West Virginia. 
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
26One million-plus hours  
of safety 
In China, we demonstrated that good EHS practices  
can make an enormous difference in safety. In 
2018, our Changchun plant had a recordable case 
rate significantly higher than the target. An audit 
established that the plant lacked consistent safety 
practices and did not make safety a priority, so we 
created an EHS improvement team focused on 
implementing the SIF program. Changchun has since 
exceeded 1 million work hours without lost time or a 
recordable injury, and received awards from the local 
Economic Development Zone and the Jilin province for 
its progressive approach to business, including a safe 
work environment.
Making the list 
In 2019, Constellium made its debut 
appearance on the annual list of the 100 Top 
Suppliers compiled by Automotive News ,  
the publication of reference for the auto 
industry . This confirms our position as a global 
leader in aluminium automotive solutions, 
supplying a broad portfolio to the world’s 
top automakers and maintaining close 
partnerships with our customers.Engineering a pipeline  
of talent
Manufacturing Excellence does not rely solely 
on new technologies, processes, and assets. It 
receives support from our deep pool of talented and 
experienced engineers. We launched Constellium’s 
Global Engineering Development Program in 2019  
to build a pipeline of engineers that will sustain 
Constellium's leadership position for decades to 
come. Currently, 50 young engineers from Europe 
and the U.S. are participating in an 18-month 
project-based course of study, the first of this 
annual program.
Factory for the future
We cut the ribbon on a brand new 
automotive structures facility in Žilina, 
Slovakia, producing aluminium Crash 
Management Systems and body structure 
components for the European market. 
The plant features advanced technologies 
for forming, machining, welding, and heat 
treatment, along with a state-of-the-art 
quality lab to ensure each customer's 
specifications are met.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
27Packaging
Constellium is a world-leading integrated supplier for the aluminium packaging 
market, a bedrock of our portfolio. We tailor our solutions to a broad range of products: 
beverage cans, food cans, wine and spirits closures, flexible packaging, hair and body 
care aerosols, color cosmetics, and luxury packaging for the perfume industry. BUSINESS VALUE  
Consumers love cans
In Europe and North America, a growing 
customer preference for aluminium cans 
is evidenced by an expanding number 
of new product launches, as well as 
increased investment in new can lines. 
According to CRU, between 2019 and 
2024, annual demand for aluminium 
for the canstock market is expected to 
grow by 2.7% in Europe and 2% in North 
America. 
An increased focus on sustainability 
continues to boost the demand for 
aluminium cans as the eco-responsible 
alternative to plastics in beverage 
packaging. This trend is reinforced by 
regulations such as a European ban 
on certain single-use plastics, which 
will come into effect by 2021. Many 
companies have also announced a 
reduction in plastic packaging and 
single-use plastics. In addition to the sustainability trend, demand for can 
sheet continues to grow, as aluminium 
replaces steel in Europe. In the U.S., we 
expect the growing demand for Auto Body 
Sheet to tighten supply to the packaging 
market over the medium to long term. 
In addition, the aluminium can is the 
packaging of choice for growing niche 
markets such as sparkling water, energy 
drinks, and craft beers.
Billions reborn 
We are an industry leader in the  
recycling of aluminium beverage cans. 
Each year we recycle the equivalent of  
12 billion beverage cans at our Neuf-  
Brisach plant, and we have the capacity to  
recycle 20 billion beverage cans at our 
Muscle Shoals site in Alabama.
Aluminium cans are infinitely recyclable. They can be recycled over and over again in  
a true “closed loop” recycling process. Plastic, on the other hand,  is typically 
“downcycled” into products such as carpet fiber or landfill liner.
Packaging made from aluminium is highly valuable, and aluminium cans are the most 
recycled beverage container. Cans recycle well into cans, with much more closed loop 
recycling than plastic.
Because aluminium is lightweight, and beverage and food cans can be efficiently packed 
without requiring much space, the carbon emissions related to the transportation and 
logistics of these items are lower than for packaging made from plastic or glass.ALUMINIUM CAN(S) LIVE FOREVER 
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
28Our packaging plantsof our 2019 revenue came 
from the packaging market37  %A GLOBAL LEADER IN PACKAGING
  Mexico and Canada        United States         Market trends
TOTAL NORTH AMERICAN ROLLED PRODUCTS
Consumption Can Stock (kt)
Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled Products 
Market Outlook November 2019.1,200
800
400
0
CAGR
+2.0%
2,000
1,500
1,000
500TOTAL EUROPEAN ROLLED PRODUCTS 
Consumption Can Stock (kt)
CAGR
+2.7%
2019 2020 2021 2022 2024
2019 2020 2021 2022 2024The cosmetics market is a niche market with high growth 
potential. As the market for luxury products continues  
to develop, so do customer requests for recyclable  
and sustainable packaging materials. Decades of experience and close 
collaboration with leading cosmetics companies have given us the 
skills to achieve the polish and elegance that cosmetics companies 
require for their packaging. Our rolling mill in Singen is renowned for 
producing highly specialized aluminium surfaces which are unique to 
the cosmetics industry.BEAUTY BOXES 
2023
2023
AB InBev, Ardagh Group, Ball, Can-Pack, Crown, Coca-Cola,  
Moravia CansSOME OF OUR CUSTOMERSSource: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Products Market 
Outlook November 2019.
  Eastern Europe          Western Europe  The Constellium Advantage
• We address every facet of the market, from aluminium coils and 
sheets to recycling
• We have the capacity to recycle the equivalent of 32 billion cans 
at our facilities in Muscle Shoals, Alabama and Neuf-Brisach, 
France
Muscle Shoals, 
Alabama: One of our 
largest sites, with the 
widest strip mill in 
the U.S. and a world 
class beverage can 
recycling centerWORLD-CLASS CAPABILITIES
Neuf-Brisach, France:  
Key positions in 
beverage canstock 
(body, end, and tab) and 
food canstock in Europe, 
along with a world-class 
recycling centerSingen, Germany:  
Supplies closure stock to 
a global customer base
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
29Aerospace
Today’s aircraft must combine high performance, reduced environmental impact, 
and low operating costs. Constellium helps aerospace manufacturers maintain 
cruising speed with value-added aluminium plates, sheets, extrusions, and 
precision castings for the commercial, military, and space markets. BUSINESS VALUE  
A buoyant sector
We see sustained build rates of aircraft 
resulting from a steady increase in traffic 
and the replacement of aging fleets. 
Backlogs remain high, and demand for 
aluminium for the North American and 
European aerospace rolled products 
market is expected to grow by 3.3% per 
year between 2019 and 2024 (CRU data).Nose to tail solutions
Constellium is a major partner of the 
world’s top aircraft manufacturers, 
developing and manufacturing materials 
for all key structural applications,  
including fuselage and wing skins, 
doublers, stiffeners, window frames, 
bulkheads, floor structures, seat tracks, 
doors, and various engine component 
parts. Our groundbreaking Airware® 
solution makes us the undisputed leader 
in aluminium-lithium technology.
Turning scrap into supply 
During a typical manufacturing process, 
90% of the metal may be removed as 
scrap. Constellium offers pre-machined 
parts so that our customers generate 
less scrap and save on material costs. We 
recycle the off-cuts and chips generated 
by pre-machining directly in our plants, 
then return the metal to the production 
process without any loss of properties.
Airware® is our range of ultra-high performance aluminium-lithium alloys, and the market 
leader for aerospace structures. Featuring low density, high stiffness, and exceptional 
damage tolerance, Airware® propels aircraft and spacecraft to exciting new heights. 
Airware® 2065 was developed for extruded products such as cargo beams. Due to their 
low density, high strength, and excellent corrosion resistance, Airware® 2065 extrusions 
are ideal for stiffeners in compression-driven structures such as upper wing stringers.
Airware® 2198 combines high damage tolerance, high static properties, and outstanding 
fatigue resistance. Its superior resistance to exfoliation and stress corrosion even makes 
it suitable for use as bare material. Available in thin gauges, Airware® 2198 is the optimal 
choice for fuselage sheets and other inner structures. AIRWARE® SOARS ABOVE THE REST 
Issoire Airware® casthouse
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
30A GLOBAL LEADER IN AEROSPACE
400
300
0200
100
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024AEROSPACE FLAT ROLLED PRODUCTS  
Consumption (kt)
CAGR
+3.3%
FLEET DEVELOPMENT DRIVEN BY PASSENGER 
DEMAND AND AGING FLEET (UNITS) 
Source: Boeing 2019 current market outlook201825,830
203850,660
6,620 Retained19,210 Replacement (44%)24,830 Growth (56%)
Our aerospace plants Market trends
of our 2019 revenue came 
from the aerospace market15  %
Airbus, Blue Origin, Boeing, Bombardier, Dassault Aviation, Embraer,  
Lockheed Martin, NASA, Pilatus, Pratt & Whitney, Safran, SpaceX SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERSIn early 2020, Airbus recognized Constellium with the 
“Best Performer Award” at its annual Supply Chain and 
Quality Improvement Program ceremony in France. As 
a decades-long partner, Constellium supplies Airbus with advanced 
aerospace alloys from our facilities in Issoire and Montreuil-Juigné, in 
France, and Ravenswood, in the United States. We have deepened our 
collaboration in recent years, working together to improve supply chain 
efficiency, recycling, and inventory reduction throughout the value chain.SUPPLIER TO THE SKIES
• A diversified portfolio of blue chip customers 
• Sole producer of many advanced proprietary alloys and 
technologies, including Airware®
• Major provider of supply chain integration, including pre-machining 
services and closed loop recycling
Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Products Market 
Outlook November 2019.
  Europe, U .S. & CanadaThe Constellium Advantage
Issoire, France: 
One of the world’s 
top two aerospace 
plate mills, with a 
casthouse producing 
Airware®
Ussel, France: One 
of the sole providers 
of sand casting 
for aerospace 
componentsRavenswood, West 
Virginia: One of 
the most powerful 
stretchers and largest 
cold rolling mills in 
the world
Montreuil-Juigné, 
France: Hard 
alloy extrusions 
for aerospace 
applicationsValais, Switzerland: 
Two casthouses and 
plate and extrusion 
shops
C-TEC, France 
R&D center with an 
Airware® casting unitAN INTEGRATED PLATFORM
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
31AutomotiveBUSINESS VALUE  
Constellium aluminium drives 
advanced mobility 
We supply most major automakers, from 
mainstream market leaders to new EV 
entrants. Our products can be found in 
some of the most iconic vehicles on the 
road today: BMW X5, Ford F-150 and 
Super Duty, Mercedes-Benz A-Class, 
PEUGEOT Partner, and more. 
Aluminium will remain alluring
As automakers seek to lightweight 
vehicles and the demand for electric 
vehicles continues to rise, the automotive 
industry is expected to remain a secular 
growth market for aluminium in North 
America and Europe. 
According to DuckerFrontier, aluminium 
content in cars is also likely to keep 
increasing, particularly in closures and 
battery enclosures. CRU predicts that 
Auto Body Sheet consumption will grow 
by 9% per year between 2019 and 2024 
in Europe and North America. 
We are well positioned to take advantage 
of these market trends. Our automotive 
products are used predominantly in 
premium models, light trucks, and sport 
utility vehicles manufactured by European 
and North American OEMs, which have 
experienced strong customer demand. 
Moreover, due to increasing mandatory 
emission reduction targets, we expect more 
conversion to aluminium solutions among 
high volume car platforms.
Our offer goes far and wide
We are a longstanding and preferred 
partner for automakers, enabling them 
to engineer lighter, stronger, and safer 
vehicles for higher performance, lower 
emissions, better fuel economy, and greater 
range. Our unique portfolio of advanced 
aluminium rolled products and extrusion-
based structural components responds 
to customers’ needs for lightweighting, 
strength, formability, crash performance, 
thermal management, and design. 
Battery Enclosure assemblies safeguard the batteries in electric and hybrid vehicles, 
helping them to resist crashes and intrusion. They also cool individual modules using 
innovative materials, design, and joining technologies.
Crash Management Systems for electric cars are typically larger and stronger than those 
used for internal combustion vehicles. Aluminium remains the preferred material for its 
energy absorption qualities.
Lightweighting is critical to increase range in electric vehicles. It also decreases costs, as 
a lighter car needs less battery power to drive the same distance. Plug-in hybrid and full 
battery electric vehicles use ~25% more aluminium than the typical internal combustion 
engine car today, according to CRU.ALUMINIUM IN ELECTRIC VEHICLES
We are a unique partner to automakers, with a wide-ranging offer: material 
science, component prototyping and production, simulation and testing, and 
product development. 
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
32Our automotive plants A GLOBAL LEADER IN AUTOMOTIVE
Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Products Market Outlook 
November 2019.
ALUMINIUM COMPONENT WEIGHT CHANGES 2015-2020 
Aluminium net increase: 69 Ibs
Closure Sheet
Body Sheet
Body & Vacuum Die Castings
Body & Bumper Extrusions
Chassis & Suspension
Wheels, Steering & Brakes
Engine & Transmission
Source: Ducker Worldwide study-20 -10 0 10 20 30 40Weight Change (Ibs.)Market trends
of our 2019 revenue came 
from the automotive market27  %
Audi, BMW Group, Daimler, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Ford, General 
Motors, Honda, Porsche, Groupe PSA, Subaru, Toyota, VolkswagenSOME OF OUR CUSTOMERSConstellium partnered with North American 
automakers on the development of a breakthrough 
new solution for the transmission market, to improve 
performance, adapt to demanding driving conditions, and allow for 
better fuel efficiency. Our aluminium plates, such as our 5000-series 
alloys, reduce the weight of large components while providing 
superior corrosion resistance for undercarriage applications as well 
as high fatigue resistance to vibration.GEARING UP FOR ALUMINIUM 
• Top 100 Global Automotive Supplier (Source: Automotive News  2019)
• Wide portfolio of alloys and solutions for car body closures and body 
structures, Crash Management Systems and battery enclosures, heat 
exchangers, and interior trimThe Constellium Advantage
 20+ sites globally 
serving the 
automotive marketEXPANDING OUR CAPABILITIES AND OUR FOOTPRINT
A Global Auto Body 
Sheet capacity of 
300kt between our 
plants in Bowling 
Green, Kentucky; 
Neuf-Brisach, France; 
and Singen, GermanyA global network of 
automotive structures 
plants located close 
to our customers and 
supplied by extrusion 
plants in Europe and 
North America2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2019
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
33  North America          Europe          China         RoW    AUTOMOTIVE BODY SHEET FLAT ROLLED PRODUCTS  
Consumption (kt)
02,000
1,000CAGR
+10.7%BUSINESS VALUE  
Industry, Transportation,  
& Defense 
We target high value-added applications with rolled and extruded products for 
the transportation and industry markets, as well as solutions for the defense 
market. We are growing and entering new segments of these markets with our 
large portfolio of alloys. Our unique capability to produce thick plates, wide coils, 
low-residual stress products, and large-profile products gives us a distinct 
advantage over the competition.
INDUSTRY
Aluminium features superior machina-
bility, weldability, formability, and thermal 
and electrical conductivity, and is ideal 
for industrial applications. Our aluminium 
sheets, plates, bars, extrusions, and pro-
files can be used for anything from light 
fittings to semiconductor equipment. Con-
stellium’s extensive experience in semicon -
ductor and flat panel display equipment, 
combined with our world-class manufac-
turing capabilities, makes us the ideal part-
ner for manufacturers, both for functional 
parts (e.g., vacuum process and transfer 
chambers, vacuum valves and pumps, load 
locks) and consumable parts (e.g., shower -
heads and diffusers). 
2019 highlights:
• We remained the European leader in the 
hard alloy extrusion business, with De ˇcˇín 
the largest extrusion plant in Europe.
• We remained the European leader in 
large profiles, with three large extrusion 
presses in Sierre, Switzerland and Sin-
gen, Germany. • We continued to develop Alplan®, whose 
superior stability and best-in-class flat-
ness provides up to 50% improvement in 
machining cycle time and 33% material 
savings, for considerable cost reductions.
• Alumold® is a preferred alternative to 
steel molds, reducing overall costs and 
offering significant productivity gains. 
Air Torque, Bosch, Draeger, Festo, Metso, 
Siemens, ThyssenKruppSOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS
Rods at De ˇcˇín, Czech Republic
Alplan® rolled and ready to mill aluminium plates 
 Extrusion at Singen, Germany
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
34A GLOBAL LEADER IN INDUSTRY , TRANSPORTATION, AND DEFENSE
DEFENSE
For decades, we have partnered with de-
fense companies worldwide to develop 
new materials solutions for military air -
craft, navy, and military land vehicles. We 
are working with the leading military land 
vehicle manufacturers to propose a glob-
al offering of specialized alloys for armor 
applications. 
2019 highlights:
• Our facility in Ravenswood was selected 
by the U.S. Department of Defense for a 
grant of nearly $9.5 million to increase 
throughput, quality, and performance of 
cold rolled aluminium. This investment will enable us to meet the increased de-
mand for cold rolled plate over the next 
five to 10 years, and significantly improve 
the performance of armor against con-
stantly evolving threats.
• We entered into new partnerships with 
customers and extended our offer to ser -
vices such as pre-machining kits. 
BAE Systems, Dassault Aviation, FNSS, 
General Dynamics, GKN, John Cockrill, 
KMW, Lockheed Martin, MBDA, Nexter 
Systems, Northrop Grumman, SikorskySOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS
TRANSPORTATION
Aluminium alloys can be processed in 
numerous ways to achieve unique combi-
nations of strength, stiffness, formability, 
durability, and corrosion resistance. We 
have built upon the intrinsic properties 
of aluminium alloys to develop a range 
of dedicated extrusions, sheets, plates, 
precision sand castings, and semi-fin-
ished components for equipment parts 
within the transportation industry, such 
as tanker trucks, trailers, pleasure boats, 
trains, and trams.
2019 highlights:
• We became the leading aluminium sup-
plier to the pleasure boat market, and Brunswick Corporation, CAF , Gillig, Hitachi 
Rail, Koegel, Krone, Schmitz, Stadler, White 
River Marine GroupSOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS
continued to strengthen and expand our 
relationships with customers. 
• We remained the market leader in rail 
solutions, covering the complete range 
of rolling stock material with our large 
extrusion product portfolio. of our 2019 revenue came from other 
specialties, mostly from the industry, 
transportation, and defense markets21  %
Constellium’s facility in Ravenswood, West Virginia
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
35At Constellium, we think and act for the long term. Our first priority  
is people: we commit to the safety of every single worker, support 
local communities, and collaborate closely with customers and 
suppliers. As we seek to minimize our impact on the planet, we 
are proud to work with aluminium, a sustainable and infinitely re-
cyclable material. Through training and communication, we moti-
vate our employees to aim for excellence that endures.Sustainable  
valueThis report covers 2019 business and sustainability achievements and was developed 
before the 2020 Covid-19 crisis. Content, including business and market updates,  
EHS and sustainability policies and related action plans, does not take into account  
the impact and consequences of this pandemic on our business.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
36* Recordable Case Rate measures 
the number of fatalities, serious 
injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted 
work injuries, or medical treatments 
per one million hours worked.
** We had seven serious injuries. 
We consider this a setback after our 
2018 result.
 Target achieved
 Significant progress made; on track to achieve the target
 More effort required to achieve the target• Have at least one  
site Aluminium  
Stewardship Initiative  
(ASI) certified 
• Evaluate the sustainability 
performance of all key 
suppliers
  
• Undertake onsite 
sustainability audits  
of suppliers working in 
locations and sectors  
with greater risk of  
divergent practices
• Ensure that all suppliers  
sign on to our Code  
of Conduct
  BUILD A STANDARD  
FOR ALUMINIUM
ENSURE  
SUSTAINABLE 
PURCHASING
RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS
We will manage our  
business in an ethical  
and responsible way
• Reduce production waste  
going to landfill by 10%  
(vs. 2015)
REDUCE  
PRODUCTION WASTE 
SENT TO LANDFILL
• 10% energy efficiency 
improvement by 2020  
(vs. 2015) 
IMPROVE ENERGY  
EFFICIENCY
OPERATIONS
We will minimize  
the impact  
of our operations• 80% beverage can recycling 
rate in Europe
• Work with the industry  
and with our stakeholders  
to increase the beverage  
can recycling rate  
in the U.S.  
BOOST  
BEVERAGE  
CAN RECYCLING
PRODUCTS
We will enhance the 
environmental benefits of 
our products and improve 
customer satisfaction
• Conduct a customer 
satisfaction survey  
every two years for all  
business units
INCREASE  
CUSTOMER  
SATISFACTION• Reduce our Recordable  
Case Rate* every year  
by 10%
• No more than four  
serious injuries  
a year**
• Be in the industry’s top 
quartile for safety  
results 
FURTHER IMPROVE  
OUR SAFETY  
RECORD
• Six-point increase in  
overall employee  
satisfaction from  
a 2014 baseline
ENGAGE OUR   
PEOPLE
PEOPLE
We will ensure our people  
are safe, skilled, motivated,  
and engaged
• At least one community  
activity per site  
every year
STRENGTHEN OUR 
COMMUNITIES
Our Sustainability Targets for 2020
By regularly analyzing our progress, we can identify the most critical 
areas we need to address, focus our efforts to achieve our 2020 targets, 
and define our objectives for the years to come.SUSTAINABLE  
VALUE
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
37Flexing those  
recycling muscles 
Our plant in Muscle Shoals signed a contract with a 
waste management company, Waste Connections, to 
reduce our waste destined for landfill, such as plastic, 
pallets, and sludge oils, by recycling or reusing it 
outside our facilities. Aiming to inspire a culture 
of recycling among its employees, Muscle Shoals 
launched the communication campaign “A better 
tomorrow starts with you, ” which includes contests 
and video messages displayed around the plant. The 
site has also installed easily identifiable recycling 
bins and is training its new hires and supervisors to 
ensure the proper segregation of waste.Sustainability Highlights
Our aluminium video is gold  
On June 5, 2019—World Environment Day—we released a video called “Born to 
Recycle” , with an original “slam”-style soundtrack in three different languages  
(French, English, and German). The video urges consumers to recycle aluminium 
products that have reached the end of their 
useful lives, since aluminium can be endlessly 
recycled for 95% less energy than transforming 
primary metal. Less than two weeks after its 
release, the film won a gold trophy in the “Fight 
and Adaptation to Climate Change” category 
at the Deauville Green Award Festival, an 
international film festival dedicated to social 
responsibility and eco-innovation. The following 
September, it took home a Gold Dolphin from 
the Cannes Corporate Media & TV Awards.
SUSTAINABLE  
VALUE
Constellium Compliance  
Constellium’s non-financial performance statement (déclaration de 
performance extra-financière), which informs stakeholders of our social, 
environmental, and societal actions, received its first audit from an 
independent third party, PwC. The audit verified our compliance with the 
provisions of the French Commercial Code (article R. 225-105), along with the 
accuracy of the information provided, such as key performance indicators and 
measures taken to address risks (article R. 225-105 I, 3, and II)(1).
Training to be 
sustainable
Training employees 
about sustainability gives 
them the tools to make a 
real difference. In 2019, 
Constellium launched 
a new e-learning module 
on the subject, as part of 
our onboarding process for new hires (and 
available to all employees). Our internal and 
external communication departments have 
fully integrated our sustainability challenges, 
goals, and achievements, and they also 
encourage our employees to engage and 
help us reach our targets. 
(1) PwC is not responsible for assuring our compliance, nor that of our products and services, with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions. In this report, we have specified 
the data reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. The data reviewed by PwC in the graphics and tables in this report are identified with the blue check 
mark shown on this page  Training the purchasing team 
in De ˇcˇín, Czech Republic,  
about sustainability.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
38C-TEC Cycles   
When it comes to sustainability, our researchers and 
engineers are pedaling in high gear. In France, where our 
C-TEC Technology Center is located, the Auvergne-Rhône-
Alpes region’s “Challenge Mobilité” recognizes efforts by 
companies and their employees to use clean, safe, and 
economical modes of transportation for commuting to work. 
In 2019, the region awarded C-TEC with a Coup de Cœur for 
avoiding 1,481 km of automobile transportation in a single 
day. Throughout the year, C-TEC encourages its employees 
to regularly ride their bicycles to work by offering safety 
kits and free maintenance.
Singen’s stamp  
of approval  
In 2019, the casting and rolling operations at 
our plant in Singen, Germany, were certified 
by the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), 
making Singen the first Constellium plant 
able to supply customers with independently 
certified, responsibly sourced, and sustainably 
manufactured aluminium solutions. It is certified 
against ASI’s Performance Standard (for 
operating according to a strict set of governance, 
environmental, and social standards) and the 
Chain of Custody Standard (for the traceability of 
recycled and primary metal transferred from one 
step to another in the value chain).Recycling in America 
November 15 is “America Recycles Day” , and in 2019, our U .S. 
sites participated enthusiastically with a range of activities. 
Our Muscle Shoals plant in Alabama taught employees about 
sorting, recycling, and related fun 
facts, then held a trivia contest. In 
West Virginia, our Ravenswood site 
hosted a Community Cleanup Day, 
facilitating recycling in the local 
community by inviting people to 
deposit their used items, such as 
electronics and cardboard boxes. 
Meanwhile, our Bowling Green,  
Kentucky, plant increased recycling 
awareness among its employees with 
an internal information campaign 
featuring videos, newsletters, and a 
crossword puzzle challenge.
Ravenswood's Recycling Team on America Recycles Day
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
39SUSTAINABLE  
VALUE
Using Materiality Assessments  
to Build Action Plans
At Constellium, we make every effort to meet our rigorous sustainability targets. 
We regularly measure our progress and communicate our data with precision  
and transparency. We survey our stakeholders about their priorities, then  
construct action plans in response. 
Aligning our targets with  
the UN SDGs
Constellium is a member of European 
Aluminium, an association of more 
than 80 companies and organizations 
representing the entire aluminium 
value chain. In 2018, European  
Aluminium aligned its Sustainability 
Roadmap Towards 2025 with the 
UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), a barometer for sustainability.
European Aluminium worked with an 
external consultant, CSR Europe, to 
define targets and actions for 2025 
and beyond. 
Their findings determined that our 
industry can maximize its positive 
impact and business opportunities by 
focusing on eight SDGs in particular: 
education, gender equality, affordable 
clean energy, decent work, industry 
and innovation, responsible produc -
tion and consumption, climate action, 
and partnerships. Constellium subse -
quently aligned our own targets with 
those same eight SDGs. Identifying risks and  
opportunities through  
Materiality Assessments 
Every year, we track Constellium’s sus -
tainability performance and provide 
accurate, transparent disclosure of our 
data. Since 2014, we have performed 
regular Materiality Assessments, in 
order to pinpoint the topics that matter 
most to our stakeholders. By surveying 
internal stakeholders (top managers 
and other employees) and external 
stakeholders (investors, suppliers, and 
customers) from different countries, 
we are able to coordinate our sustaina -
bility efforts with their priorities.
As part of our 2019 Materiality As -
sessment, we conducted a sustain -
ability risk analysis involving our top 
managers, under the guidance of in -
dependent third-party firm Ernst & 
Young Global Limited. The analysis 
identified the risks affecting Constel -
lium’s activities and the aluminium 
value chain, as well as the opportuni -
ties, according to their relevance over 
the short, medium, and long term. We 
also held workshops with key internal 
stakeholders to assess risks.
Not surprisingly, Constellium’s biggest 
sustainability risks and opportunities 
remained the ones already identified 
and classified into four main categories. 
We have for many years constructed a 
number of programs and action plans 
around them, touching upon everything 
from recycling to gender diversity.
“Risk assessment 
is integral to 
any company's 
short-, medium-, 
and long-term 
strategy . Today, 
identifying 
sustainability 
risks is almost 
self-preservation,  
as they can 
directly impact 
the finances of a 
business. ” 
Sofia Rodrigues  
Senior internal auditor  
at Constellium Paris
Learn more about the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals at https:/ /sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
40CONSTELLIUM’S RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES AND THE ASSOCIATED SDGS
*Market regulatory changes refers to modifications in legislation and environmental policies that touch upon Constellium’s activities. These changes include 
aluminium packaging recycling as part of the EU Circular Economy regulations and the Single Use Plastics strategy, the EU’s CO2 Emissions Trading System, 
and EU regulations on chemical use and industrial emissions. One way that Constellium addresses these changes is by participating in associations, which are 
listed in the Performance Value section of this report (page 73). ** Whereas community engagement did not appear as a main risk or opportunity in our latest 
materiality assessment, Constellium considers it an important part of our social responsibility in the regions in which we operate (see page 46).PRODUCTS
• Developing products with environmental benefits
• Recycling
• Market regulatory changes*
PEOPLE 
 
• Employee health and safety
• Gender diversity
• Talent attraction and retention
OPERATIONS 
 
• Emissions and waste
• Energy and greenhouse gas emissions
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
• Business ethics
• Sustainable purchasing
RECOGNITION OF OUR EFFORTS
Constellium’s ongoing commitment to 
sustainability influences the business decisions 
we make, how we treat people, and the ways in 
which we create value. Our efforts to achieve our 
targets have earned us recognition from several 
independent organizations.
During the first semester  
of 2020, as a result of the latest 
assessment conducted by 
EcoVadis, Constellium was 
recognized with the highest 
rating, Platinum, which 
represents a significant improvement versus the  
2018 Gold medal. It positions Constellium among  
the 1% top performers.
We were honored to receive the Groupe PSA 2019 
Supplier Award in the Corporate Social Responsibility 
category, for successful implementation of our 
responsible supply chain policy and energy 
efficiency program.Oekom, a leading rating agency for sustainable 
investments, has rated our environmental, 
social, and governance performance with a “B, ” 
the best grade it provides within the metal and 
mining sector.
Our Climate Change 2019 Program received a 
C rating from the Climate Disclosure Project 
(CDP). This reflects the fact that engaging in 
recycling and developing lightweight solutions 
for our transportation customers increases 
GHG emissions at our sites. However, CDP’s 
methodology does not take into consideration 
the avoided emissions from our customers’ 
processes or final product use, which more than 
offset our own emissions.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
41Aluminium can be endlessly recycled 
while maintaining its properties. By re-
placing the need for primary aluminium, 
recycled aluminium reduces waste, pro-
tects resources, and minimizes green-
house gas emissions.
Better schemes, investment in sorting  
centers, and citizens’ efforts have 
pushed Europe’s aluminium beverage 
can recycling up to 74.5%(1). However, 
results remain much lower in the U.S. 
(49.8% in 2018), despite recent pro-
gress in the collection and recycling of 
beverage cans(2). To help address this 
issue, we are working with regulators 
and industry partners, including the 
Can Manufacturers Institute and The 
Recycling Partnership, on potential 
solutions such as container deposit 
programs and legislation. We also ad-
vocate for recycling via communication 
campaigns (read about our award-win-
ning video on page  38), at conferences, 
and by leading recycling initiatives.
 Constellium actively recycles more 
than 560,000 metric tons of externally 
sourced aluminium scrap per year(3). At 
the same time, we are constantly seek -
ing to boost the recycling rates of the 
industries we serve by working with 
partners on scrap collection and sort-
ing, and more efficient closed-loop re-
cycling processes.
While recycling scrap generated with-
in our plants, Constellium works con-
stantly to improve the efficiency of our 
recycling processes. One ongoing tech-
nical challenge of recycling aluminium 
is properly identifying the composition 
mix of scrap, so that it can be sorted 
and then recycled into the most suit-
able alloy. If an incorrect composition is 
used for an alloy, additional energy and/
or virgin aluminium is required to fix it. 
In 2019, our Issoire and Neuf-Brisach 
sites in France introduced 2D barcodes 
to better identify the alloy type, weight, 
and origin of scrap and coils, to deter -
2020 TARGET  2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSmine the ideal mix for the recycling pro-
cess and optimize scrap recovery. We are 
testing other technologies, such as ra-
dio frequency identification and optical 
character recognition, to achieve even 
greater recycling efficiency.
• The average aluminium can recycling  
rate in Europe reached 74.5% in 2017  
(figures published in 2019)• Continue to work on improving  
in-house recycling efficiency
• Keep working with stakeholders  
to promote recycling and regulations  
that treat all materials fairlyPRODUCTS
Boosting Recycling  
Rates 
• 80% beverage can recycling rate  
in Europe  
• Work with the industry and with  
our stakeholders to increase the beverage  
can recycling rate in the U .S.  
Through partnerships and innovative solutions, Constellium works 
tirelessly to improve and increase aluminium recycling.
(1) Data from 2017 , published by European Aluminium on October 14, 2019. https:/ /european-aluminium.eu/media/2669/european-aluminium-mpe-aluminium-beverage-can-2017-
recycling-rate-press-release.pdf. (2) Data published by Aluminium Association. https:/ /www.aluminum.org/aluminum-can-advantage. (3) The registered amount of aluminium scrap 
externally sourced for recycling has been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. See page 64, GRI-301-2 Recycled input materials used.
Aluminium process scrap
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
42We make it a point to maintain close 
contact with our customers, personalize 
our offerings, and enhance the products 
and services we provide. For example, in 
2019, our plate shop in Issoire, France, 
hosted a team of supply chain experts 
from Airbus’ wing assembly plant in 
Chester, UK, while our sales and man-
ufacturing teams discussed program 
ramp-ups with Airbus. 
In China, our Changchun plant launched 
a rear Crash Management System for 
the latest BMW 5 Series in only nine months. To meet this deadline, it formed 
a team to work with the BMW plant and 
our suppliers, held daily internal meet-
ings, and reported progress to BMW 
every week. 
We also work to optimize process effi-
ciency and product delivery. Our Issoire 
plant sends aluminium plates to a local 
third party, who machines them into 
parts before delivering them to cus-
tomers. As a result, less metal is sent to 
customers, the machining scrap travels 
a shorter distance to our facilities, and 
2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS 2020 TARGET  
we reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
associated with transportation and 
scrap by one-third. 
Another customer, Ball Beverage Pack -
aging Europe, used to ship coils by truck 
from our Neuf-Brisach plant to their 
site in Cabanillas, Spain, a distance of 
1,600 km. Thanks to our coordinated 
work, Ball has optimized delivery and 
reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 
replacing 60% of road transport by rail 
transport for shipping half of the coils' 
total volume.
Finally, Constellium recycles aluminium 
alloy scrap generated by our custom-
ers—for instance, collecting automotive 
body sheet scrap from Audi, recycling it 
into slabs at our Valais plant, then rolling 
it into new automotive body sheets at our 
Neuf-Brisach site. By creating this virtu-
ous recycling loop, we increase the use of 
scrap in our manufacturing process and 
minimize the need for virgin material.Making Every Effort  
For Our Customers
Constellium has strong, long-term relationships with customers in a 
variety of industries, who count on us to understand their business 
priorities, meet their deadlines, develop efficient solutions, and tailor 
our services to satisfy their needs.
• Our customers acknowledged Constellium’s 
efforts to offer superior products and services 
with awards, including the Groupe PSA 2019 
Supplier Award for Corporate Social  
Responsibility and the Airbus  
2019 Best Improver Award• Continue to regularly conduct  
customer satisfaction surveys  
in all business units• Conduct a customer satisfaction  
survey every two years in  
all business units 
Constellium Changchun teamPRODUCTS
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
43In 2019, our efforts drove our Record-
able Case Rate down to 2.4(1), even 
though four new sites were integrated 
into Constellium's EHS FIRST System (2). 
This number was better than our target, 
significantly lower than the European al -
uminium industry’s last published sta -
tistics (8.2 in 2018), and lower than the 
U.S. industry average, according to the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics’ most recent 
data (10 in 2018). 
Nevertheless, we experienced seven se-
rious injury cases, one of them a fatality. 
This tragic event moved us to introduce 
new mechanisms to reinforce our safety 
culture. We set up a Constellium Safety 
Task Force to analyze behaviors and re-
inforce prevention; it has since played an 
important role in developing and super -
vising flagship safety programs.
Another team representing diverse func-
tions and all operating segments studied 
ways to mitigate critical risks. It developed 
an action plan for 2020, after identifying 
immediate and underlying causes for in-
juries related to lockout/tagout practices. We held a workshop where members 
from corporate functions and industrial 
sites met with a psychologist to under -
stand why workers often avoid reporting 
unsafe practices. They created the “See 
Something, Say Something” project, 
which increases employees’ awareness 
of the need to speak up about hazards 
2020 TARGET  2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSand risks, while teaching them how to 
better interact and accept feedback.
We also implemented a program dedi-
cated to identifying, coaching, and su-
pervising high-risk individuals, who are 
more likely to engage in at-risk behav -
iors than others, so that removal from 
their position is a last resort(3).
• A recordable case rate of 2.4  
(Seven serious injury cases)• Monitor at-risk behavior
• Implement plans to mitigate  
human-machine interface risks
• Train employees on peer-to-peer  
interaction and incident reporting
PEOPLE
Reinforcing Our  
Culture of Safe Behavior
• Reduce Recordable Case Rate(4)  
by 10% annually 
• No more than four serious injuries a year 
• Be in the industry’s top quartile  
for safety results 
Our safety record is good, but we will be satisfied with nothing less than 
zero accidents or injuries. We seek to guarantee the health and safety 
of all by constantly improving our EHS practices and integrating EHS 
culture into every aspect of our business.
(1) The Recordable Case Rate has been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. (2) New plants added to Constellium’s EHS FIRST System: Nanjing 
(China), Žilina (Slovakia), Astrex (Canada), and Vigo (Spain). (3) High-risk individuals are more likely to engage in at-risk behavior than others, even when they receive the same 
safety training. The main psychological factors are lack of self-control, risk-taking, rule violations, and lack of awareness. (4) Recordable Case Rate measures the number of 
fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours worked.One of the riskiest activities is the lockout/tagout of machines
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
44Since 2012, we have conducted a  
Global Employee Survey every two 
years, to measure employee engage-
ment and track our progress towards 
our 2020 target(1). 
Although our overall results have im-
proved significantly, we noticed dispar -
ities among categories. For example, 
our 2018 survey revealed large gains 
in employee satisfaction, but less ade -
quate results for training and develop-
ment, and company culture. Therefore, 
as part of the MOMENTUM program, 
we developed global and local action 
plans to communicate our mission, 
strategy, and values to employees. We 
are motivating our people to strive for 
excellence while showing that they are 
integral to the Company’s success.
On our e-learning platform, we  
launched a fully customized Digital 
Onboarding program that provides new 
hires with useful information to sup-
port their integration and accelerate 
their understanding of what it means 
to work at Constellium. This program consists of various modules, from the 
history of our Company to our alumin-
ium transformation processes, Human 
Resources practices, and approach to 
sustainable development. 
In September, we introduced our Glob-
al Engineering Development Program 
(GEDP) to develop the technical, lead-
ership, and business skills of our ear -
ly career engineers. We launched it at 
our sites in Bowling Green, Kentucky, 
and Singen, Germany, where nearly 50 
2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS 2020 TARGET  
participants from multiple Constelli-
um sites took advantage of concrete 
work experience, webinars, experien-
tial learning, and individual mentor -
ing with senior Constellium leaders. 
Topics ranged from EHS to metallurgy, 
sustainability, project management, 
coaching, and personal transformation. 
As one of our young engineers, Jasmeet 
Gill, remarked, “It’s really exciting to 
work at a company that truly invests in 
its employees. ” Engaging Through Active  
Learning
Our Learning & Development (L&D) strategy is based on Constellium’s mission 
and values. Its various programs encourage employees to challenge the status 
quo and one another as they continuously aspire for excellence. 
• Launch of our Global Engineering  
Development Program at our  
Bowling Green (U .S.) and Singen  
(Germany) sites• Continue pursuing our L&D programs 
• Conduct the 2020 Global Employee Survey• A six-point increase in employee  
satisfaction vs. 2014 (2) 
Jasmeet Gill, Quality Process Engineer at Constellium, GEDP participant
(1) The survey covers five main categories: engagement, leadership, company culture, training and development, and EHS. (2) In our last survey, in 2018, we outperformed our 2020 
target with a 10-point increase in employee satisfaction, compared with the 2014 baseline.PEOPLE
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
45PEOPLE
From fundraisers to food drives, em-
ployees at many of our sites organized 
and participated in a range of programs 
throughout the year, for the benefit of lo-
cal communities. 
Constellium CARES is an initiative of our 
U.S. sites, whereby dedicated teams se-
lect and oversee community projects pro-
posed by our workers. Several projects in 
2019 raised awareness and funds for the 
fight against cancer. At Ravenswood, a 
month-long campaign, “Early Detection 
Saves Lives, ” included a raffle, a cloth-
ing sale, and a 5K walk and run. Muscle 
Shoals hosted a “Lunch & Learn” event 
to promote early cancer detection. Em-
ployees from Van Buren and Livonia, 
Michigan, took part in a 5K walk and run 
to support St. Jude Children’s Research 
Hospital. 
In Switzerland, Constellium Valais helped 
the Vélo Club Lonza build a pump track 
for cyclists and skaters, and also partici-
pated in the Rayon de Soleil initiative, or -
ganizing a week of recreational activities 
for seniors and people with disabilities.In France, our C-TEC Technology Center 
hosted DuoDay, inviting people with dis-
abilities to pair up with employee volun-
teers and spend a day shadowing them 
at the workplace. Our Paris office held its 
first “Constellium Paris Community Day, ” 
where a team of Constellium volunteers 
attended a one-day cooking class taught 
by culinary students from the Apprentis 
d’Auteuil foundation for vulnerable chil -
dren and young people. And Issoire’s em-
2020 TARGET  2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSployees participated in the third annual 
Issoir’Ose race, with proceeds benefiting 
breast cancer research.
Workers from our sites at Singen and 
Gottmadingen, Germany, put on their 
running shoes for the BeTreff charity run, 
raising money for the Lebenshilfe Singen 
organization, which helps to improve the 
quality of life for people with intellectual 
disabilities.
• 84% of our sites conducted  
a community program or event• Continue to develop community  
programs at all sitesSupporting  
Our Communities
• At least one community activity  
per site every year 
Around the world, and in a number of different ways, Constellium employees 
volunteer to improve the lives of people in their communities. 
Employees participating in the Rayon de Soleil 
initiative’s recreational activities
“Initiatives like DuoDay 
demonstrate the 
Company’s openness to 
people with disabilities, 
and also create 
opportunities that would 
not necessarily have 
occurred otherwise. ”
Samuel Juge
R&D technician, C-TEC
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
46Constellium has put programs in place 
at all our sites to reduce landfilling, in-
crease reuse and recycling, and mini -
mize the environmental impact of our 
waste on soil, air, and water. In 2019, we 
disposed of 7% less production waste 
than the year before, preventing nearly 
2,000 metric tons from ending up in 
landfill (see page 66, key indicators (1)). 
We focus most of our efforts on seven 
plants that generate over 98% of the 
production waste sent to landfill: Mus -
cle Shoals, Ravenswood, and Van Buren 
(U.S.); Issoire, Neuf-Brisach, and Ussel 
(France); and De ˇcˇín (Czech Republic). 
Since waste streams depend on each 
plant’s activity, size, and location, we 
employ different procedures at our vari-
ous sites. De ˇcˇín introduced new technol -
ogies into its processes, resulting in a re-
cycling increase of 14% and a reduction 
of 477 metric tons in discarded dross(2). 
Ravenswood initiated a program to im-
prove waste segregation and address 
flue gas dust. Ussel treats and reuses 
sand that has been used for casting, while disposing of fine particles. Mus-
cle Shoals and Deˇcˇín have hired external 
suppliers to manage their biggest sourc-
es of waste and increase recycling. 
To reduce waste from product packag-
ing, Muscle Shoals is replacing the heavy 
cardboard cores in aluminium sheet 
coils with aluminium ones that we re-
trieve and recycle. This practice reduced 
2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS 2020 TARGET  the amount of waste our customers sent 
to landfill by 550 metric tons in an eight-
month period.
We will keep working with our partners and 
networks to find new and creative solu-
tions to reduce our municipal and industri-
al landfilled waste, including flue gas dust, 
for which there is currently no satisfactory 
recycling technology.Reducing Landfilled  
Waste 
We have implemented a variety of measures to minimize what we send 
to the landfill, including data collection, better waste segregation, 
technology, and teamwork.
• The quantity of production waste  
we sent to landfill decreased by  
7% as compared with 2018• Continue to implement solutions 
to reduce waste generation  
and increase recycling• Reduce production waste going  
to landfill by 10% vs. 2015 
(1) The percentage of production waste reduction compared with the previous year and the recorded production waste have been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial 
performance statement. (2) A layer of intimately mixed aluminium, aluminium oxides, and gas on the surface of molten aluminium. Dross is generated in casthouse furnaces and 
during remelting/refining.OPERATIONS
2015 2016 2017 2018 201935,000
30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
  Total landfill          Target 2020CONSTELLIUM PRODUCTION WASTE SENT TO LANDFILL (T/Y)(1)  24,880
30, 151
28,569
27 ,560
25,607
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
47Energy efficiency is a key pillar of Con-
stellium’s sustainability commitment, 
and one that we constantly seek to 
improve at all of our plants. Altogether, 
we achieved a 2% improvement in en-
ergy efficiency from 2018 to 2019, with 
a 6.4% improvement against our 2015 
benchmark, the equivalent of more than 
370 GWh in energy savings (1).
We can attribute most of this progress 
to two main causes. First, two of our 
U.S. plants, Muscle Shoals and Bowling 
Green, vastly improved their energy ef-
ficiency in 2019, along with their over -
all production efficiency. Secondly, our 
Ravenswood, U.S.; Issoire, France; and 
Singen, Germany plants maintained 
or improved their en ergy performance 
with robust manage ment and specific 
programs devoted to energy.
 
One case worth particular mention was 
Singen, where steady progress was 
made despite limited energy-related 
investments, proof that constant focus on energy management can pay off. 
Also, at Ravenswood, implementation 
of visual energy management at the 
casthouse allowed operators to see 
2020 TARGET  2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSthe real-time effects of their practic -
es on energy consumption. This led to 
further improvement in energy use and 
contributed significantly to the plant’s 
performance. 
In France, we have a different kind of en-
ergy project on the horizon, with exciting 
potential. In April 2019, the city of Issoire 
officially (and unanimously) approved 
a joint energy project with our Issoire 
plant. The project entails recuperating 
heat from Constellium’s furnace exhaust 
fumes and transferring it to water via 
an exchanger, thereby providing a new 
source of heat for the municipal swim-
ming pool, high schools, and other com-
munity sites. This initiative is expected 
to reduce the city’s energy expenses 
while cutting down on greenhouse gas 
emissions.
• 6.4% energy efficiency improvement  
against the 2015 benchmark 
• Energy savings of more than 370 GWh  
compared with 2015• Further develop good practices in energy 
management throughout Constellium sites
• Prepare the group for additional actions  
to take us beyond our 2020 target
• Continue to look for new opportunities  
to save energy in all areas of activity
OPERATIONS
Improving Energy 
Efficiency 
• 10% energy efficiency improvement  
compared with 2015 baseline  
We continue to optimize energy use at our different plants by exploring  
an array of energy-saving opportunities, from visual management  
to heat capture. 
(1) The percentages and values of energy savings, compared with previous years, have been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement.The Issoire plant’s project is expected to recuperate 
heat from the furnace exhaust fumes to provide a new 
source of heat for municipal facilities
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
48Constellium is proud to be a founding 
member of the Aluminium Stewardship 
Initiative (ASI), which has developed and 
operates a certification program for the 
aluminium value chain. The program fo -
cuses on responsible production, sourc-
ing, and stewardship of our industry. 
Companies and sites receive certifica-
tion by respecting environmental, social, 
and governance principles, as defined by 
ASI standards. In 2018, ASI became an 
associate member of the ISEAL Alliance, 
the global association for sustainability 
standards.
In recent years, we have encouraged and 
assisted our suppliers across the alu-
minium value chain to adopt ASI stand-
ards. We are delighted to see that many 
of them have become ASI members, and 
some have succeeded in gaining certifi-
cation.
Constellium is also committed to having 
our own sites certified, so that we can de -
liver ASI aluminium—coils, sheets, pro-
files, and structures—to our customers 
throughout the supply chain. We started by working on certification for Singen, 
one of our largest sites. In early 2019, an 
independent auditor performed a pre-au-
dit, and we used the results to make im-
provements. In the following months, ASI 
recognized Singen’s casting and rolling 
facilities with its Performance Standard 
Certification, which covers critical is-
sues such as greenhouse gas emissions, 
waste management, materials steward-
ship, biodiversity, and human rights. 
2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS 2020 TARGET  Singen was also certified against ASI’s 
Chain of Custody (CoC) Standard, linking 
responsible production to responsible 
sourcing, and emphasizing sustainability 
issues in procurement. 
Constellium is looking to obtain more 
certifications in 2020, for Neuf-Brisach in 
France (including recycling), and for three 
German sites that supply the automotive 
industry: Singen Extrusion, Gottmading-
en, and Dahenfeld.Achieving ASI  
Certification
As a firm supporter of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative, Constellium 
has been promoting the adoption of ASI standards across the aluminium 
value chain. In 2019, we received our first ASI certification at our Singen 
site, and we are working towards more.
• ASI certified Singen’s casting and  
rolling operations with the Performance  
Standard and the Chain of  
Custody Standard• Achieve ASI certification (Performance 
Standard and Chain of Custody Standard)  
for our Neuf-Brisach, Singen Extrusion, 
Gottmadingen, and Dahenfeld sites• Have at least one site ASI certified 
Constellium’s facility in Singen, Germany
“The positive outcome 
of the certification 
audit was due to 
everyone’s efforts. 
Teamwork is very 
important. ”
Anja Isele
ASI Project Manager and Supply Chain 
Specialist - Metal Purchase  
Constellium Singen Rolled Products
RESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
49As we aim for sustainability throughout 
our business, Constellium expects our 
suppliers to comply with all applica-
ble laws and to respect sustainability  
practices.
We have aligned our Responsible Supply 
Chain Management Policy and our Sup-
plier Code of Conduct with the principles 
of the United Nations Global Compact. 
Both our Policy and Code of Conduct 
apply to our suppliers, consultants, con-
tractors, business partners, and agents. 
Proper implementation of these docu-
ments depends upon the commitment 
of all parties, various audits and assess-
ments, and continual improvement.
We ask all of our contracted suppliers 
to sign our Code, thereby agreeing to re-
spect and uphold its terms in every one 
of their business operations, as regards 
the environment, society, business eth-
ics, human rights, and labor practices.
We expect our key suppliers to perform 
a self-assessment every three years 
using the EcoVadis platform. In 2019, 
38 additional suppliers were assessed. When suppliers’ self-assessments deliv -
er substandard results, we ask them to 
take corrective measures, then validate 
their actions via the EcoVadis platform. 
At times we follow up with an onsite 
Workplace Condition Assessment. In 
addition, we perform onsite audits every 
three years for suppliers whose sectors 
or locations put them at risk of divergent 
practices. 
Constellium’s purchasing teams are 
specially trained to bring suppliers on 
board and offer guidance throughout 
2020 TARGET  2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSthe assessment and auditing process-
es. We also organize webinars to help 
steer our suppliers through the various 
procedures.
In 2019, Constellium’s commitment to 
responsible purchasing practices was 
recognized when the casting and rolling 
operations at our Singen, Germany plant 
were certified against the Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative’s Chain of Custody 
standard (see page 49).
• 38 new EcoVadis assessments  
performed by suppliers
• Constellium conducted two onsite  
Workplace Condition Assessments 
• More than 50% of our key suppliers have  
now signed our Code of Conduct*• Continue to implement our Responsible  
Supply Chain Management Policy,  
including asking for sign-offs on  
our Supplier Code of Conduct  
and conducting due diligenceRESPONSIBLE  
BUSINESS  
Ensuring Sustainable 
Purchasing  
• Evaluate sustainability performance  
of key suppliers*  
• Undertake onsite audits of at-risk suppliers  
• Ensure contracted suppliers sign  
our Code of Conduct 
We pursue sustainability at every step of our business, starting with our supply 
chain. Close collaboration with our suppliers results in stronger relationships 
and steady improvement.  
“Constellium has collaborated with many 
of our U .S. scrap suppliers, sharing our 
sustainability goals and helping them 
develop theirs. These conversations have 
been very productive, and we look forward to 
expanding our engagement. ” 
Ron Lotz
Director Metal Purchasing U.S., Constellium Metal Procurement
* We have identified about 200 key suppliers, meaning those from whom we purchase the most.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
50“Diversity is embedded in and lived through our 
values of safety, respect, and empowerment— 
ensuring each of us feels safe and valued for the 
differences we bring to Constellium, ” remarks Jean-
Marc Germain, CEO of Constellium. Knowing that 
our differences are our strengths, we are increasing 
diversity in our workforce. As part of our Gender 
Diversity Program, we are hiring more women, 
supporting their access to leadership positions, and 
fixing potential salary inequalities. The percentage of 
women on our workforce increased from 11% in 2016 
to 13% in 2019, and they represented more than 20% 
of our total hires in 2018 and 2019 (1).  
Our actions are not limited to gender—at our Issoire 
plant, Constellium employs more than 100 people 
with disabilities, providing equipment such as hearing 
aids and ergonomic chairs. Under the French program 
Reconnaissance de la Qualité de Travailleur Handicapé, 
our Ussel site worked with two local agencies to adapt 
jobs to workers with different abilities. We have aligned our human rights policy 
with the UN Guiding Principles on Busi-
ness and Human Rights and the ASI Per -
formance Standard. In 2019, we reached 
a milestone in our Human Rights & Labor 
Practices roadmap by organizing a glob -
al workshop to identify potential risks to 
human rights, with the participation of 
leaders from key functions and sites. 
We found that the greatest risks were in 
our supply chain and among our onsite contractors. In our own operations, we 
identified potential risks such as health 
and safety, environmental impact, and 
gender discrimination. 
During the workshop, we organized the 
risks into a heat map by determining 
the likelihood and severity of each risk, 
and developed a two-phase action plan 
to mitigate them. For the first phase, we 
continue to roll out our Responsible Sup-
ply Chain Management Policy with our HUMAN RIGHTS
Focusing on Human  
Rights 
Guided by our commitment to respect the dignity of all people and 
communities, Constellium continues to strengthen human rights 
policies for the Company, our partners, and our suppliers.  
“It’s been my experience  
that there are generally  
fewer women than men  
in most STEM careers,  
but that seems to be 
changing. My advice is  
to seek out and encourage 
other women in their careers. ”
Jennifer Call,  
Quality Systems Lead 
at Constellium  
Muscle Shoals, 
Alabama
suppliers, to act against discrimination 
with our diversity task force, and to pro-
vide training on our Worldwide Code of 
Employee & Business Conduct (includ-
ing an e-learning course that integrates 
human rights and labor principles). For 
the second phase, we will interview in-
ternal and external stakeholders about 
these potential risks and our response, 
to confirm that we are on the right path. 
CELEBRATING DIVERSITY
(1) The percentage of women in our workforce and the number of new hires have been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
51Historically, we did not have a specific 
target for scope 1 and 2 emissions re-
ductions, but worked to minimize them 
through our energy efficiency program. 
This approach was nonetheless effec-
tive; in 2019, our measures to improve 
energy efficiency saved about 100 kt 
of CO2 equivalent (eq.), as compared 
with 2015 performance(1). 
Our target leverages this experience, 
and by 2025 we plan to reduce our 
scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensi-
ty by 25%, as compared with the 2015 
baseline. We calculate emissions in-
tensity by dividing scope 1 and 2 emis-
sions in tons of CO2 eq. by consolidated 
sales volume. 
Using a range of levers 
Improving energy efficiency remains 
at the heart of our efforts to limit our 
carbon footprint, since most of our 
GHG emissions are the product of en -
ergy use. We are undertaking various 
initiatives to be more energy efficient, including using LED lighting, optimiz -
ing production routes, and upgrading 
the idle modes on our equipment. For 
example, in casting operations, we will 
continue to deploy state-of-the-art 
technologies such as electromagnetic 
stirring and regenerative burners. 
We intend to complement these meas -
ures by modifying our energy mix, and 
are exploring new possibilities, such 
as using electricity from renewable 
2025 TARGET  2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPSsources, or substituting high-emis -
sions energy sources with more effi -
cient ones. For instance, we plan to 
switch our last furnace using heavy 
fuel oil to natural gas. This is expect -
ed to reduce Constellium’s yearly 
emissions by several thousand tons 
of CO2 eq.
Collaborating to minimize  
GHG emissions
Constellium is also seeking to reduce 
our scope 3 emissions, in collabora -
tion with our customers, suppliers, 
and other stakeholders (such as pro -
fessional associations). 
One important way is through coop -
eration on recycling activities, which 
reduces the need for virgin metal (see 
page 42). Recycling aluminium creates 
about 20 times less GHG emissions 
than producing primary aluminium. 
Constellium works internally to develop 
and optimize our recycling capacities, 
and we engage with others to improve 
• Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity  
was reduced by 7% at the end of 2019  
in comparison to the 2015 baseline (1)• Continue working on energy efficiency  
and explore further opportunities  
to reduce GHG emissions GHG EMISSIONS
Engaging in Greenhouse  
Gas Emissions Reduction
• A 25% reduction in scope 1 and 2  
emissions intensity in comparison  
to 2015Since 2012, Constellium has been monitoring and disclosing our greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions, while also taking energy efficiency measures in order to 
reduce them. Constellium’s 2025 target aims to reduce the intensity  
of GHG emissions by 25% compared with a 2015 baseline.
We are always looking for 
opportunities to work with our 
customers and reduce our joint 
carbon footprint by optimizing 
product delivery . We have achieved 
this by reducing the quantity of 
material to be transported (see our 
Issoire plant example, page 43), and 
by substituting road transportation 
with rail (see our example with the 
Ball Corporation, page 43).
(1) The CO2 eq. emissions saved, in kilo metric tons, and the scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity reduction from 2019, have been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial 
performance statement.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
52Scope definitions:
Scope 1: direct emissions from sources we own or control
Scope 2: indirect emissions from production of the energy we purchase (electricity)
Scope 3: all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur throughout 
Constellium’s value chain, including both upstream and downstream emissionsrecycling rates and the efficiency of 
recycling schemes. 
Another way we address scope 3 emis -
sions is by offering our customers ad -
vanced aluminium solutions that can 
lower the environmental impact of 
their products. This is of particular 
relevance in the transportation in -
dustry. Constellium’s lightweight solu -
tions, such as Surfalex®, Securalex®, 
Strongalex® and HSA6® allow for major 
savings in automotive product emis -
sions, while Airware® can reduce the 
emissions of aircraft and spacecraft. 
Trucks, boats, and rail cars are some 
of the other applications for our ad -
vanced aluminium solutions.
Measuring the true environmental 
benefit of Constellium’s advanced alu -
minium products requires a full life cy -
cle assessment. For example, it takes 
more energy to increase the recycling 
rate of a plant, but the result is better 
for the environment. Similarly, produc -
ing weight-saving alloys for transpor -
tation applications consumes more 
energy than manufacturing standard 
products. In both of these cases, doing 
the right thing for the planet increases 
our scope 1 and 2 emissions, but they 
are more than offset by the emissions 
saved over a product’s life cycle.
 1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (kt CO2 eq.)(1) 757
755
754
752
745
 2015     2016     2017    2018     2019 438
447
431
429
438
1, 194
1,203
1, 185
1, 181
1, 183
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3
2015 2016 2017 2018 20190.700
0.600
0.500
0.400
0.300
0.200
0. 100
0
  Scope 1          Scope 2          TotalGREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY (t  CO2 eq. / t of sales)(1) 
0.808
0.8000.900
0.818 0.8000.770 0.744
(1) GHG Emissions in kilo metric tons of CO2 eq., and GHG Intensity in metric tons of CO2 eq. per ton of sales, from 2019, have been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial 
performance statement.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
53 
Consolidated income statement • Consolidated statement 
of financial position • Consolidated statement of cash flows 
• Share information • United Nations Global Compact 
Communication on Progress • GRI content indexPerformance  
report
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
54(in millions of euros)Year ended 
December 31, 2019Year ended 
December 31, 2018 Year ended 
December 31, 2017
Revenue 5,907 5,686 5,237
Cost of sales (5,305) (5, 148) (4,682)
Gross profit 602 538 555
Selling and administrative expenses (276) (247) (247)
Research and development expenses (48) (40) (36)
Restructuring costs (4) (1) (4)
Other gains / (losses) - net (19) 154 70
Income from operations 255 404 338
Finance costs - net (175) (149) (260)
Share of income / (loss) of joint ventures 2 (33) (29)
Income before income tax 82 222 49
Income tax expense (18) (32) (80)
Net income / (loss) 64 190 (31)
Income attributable to:
Equity holders of Constellium 59 188 (31)
Non-controlling interests 5 2 -
Net income / (loss) 64 190 (31)
Earnings per share attributable 
to the equity holders of Constellium
(in euros per share)Year ended 
December 31, 2019Year ended 
December 31, 2018Year ended 
December 31, 2017
Basic 0.43 1.40 (0.28)
Diluted 0.41 1.37 (0.28)Consolidated income statement
Note: More detailed information on our financial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at:  
 https:/ /www.constellium.com/investors/sec-filingsFinancial statementsPERFORMANCE REPORT
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
55(in millions of euros)On December 31, 
2019On December 31, 
2018
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 184 164
Trade receivables and other 474 587
Inventories 670 660
Other financial assets 22 30
1,350 1,441
Non-current assets
Property, plants, and equipment 2,056 1,666
Goodwill 455 422
Intangible assets 70 70
Investments accounted for under the equity method 1 1
Deferred income tax assets 185 163
Trade receivables and other 60 64
Other financial assets 7 74
2,834 2,460
TOTAL ASSETS 4, 184 3,901
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade payables and other 999 968
Borrowings 201 57
Other financial liabilities 35 60
Income tax payable 14 8
Provisions 23 46
1,272 1, 139
Non-current liabilities
Trade payables and other 21 27
Borrowings 2, 160 2,094
Other financial liabilities 23 29
Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 670 610
Provisions 99 94
Deferred income tax liabilities 24 22
2,997 2,876
TOTAL LIABILITIES 4,269 4,015
Equity
Share capital 3 3
Share premium 420 420
Retained deficit and other reserves (519) (545)
Equity attributable to equity holders of Constellium (96) (122)
Non-controlling interests 11 8
TOTAL EQUITY (85) (114)
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4, 184 3,901CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITIONPERFORMANCE REPORT
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
56(in millions of euros)Year ended 
December 31, 2019Year ended 
December 31, 2018Year ended 
December 31, 2017
Net income / (loss) 64 190 (31)
Adjustments
Depreciation and amortization 256 197 171
Finance costs—net 175 149 260
Income tax expense 18 32 80
Share of (income) / loss of joint ventures (2) 33 29
Unrealized (gains) / losses on derivatives—net and from 
remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities—net (33) 86 (54)
Losses / (gains) on disposal 3 (186) 3
Other—net 16 14 7
Interest paid (158) (129) (185)
Income tax paid (6) (23) (18)
Change in trade working capital
Inventories 57 (9) (99)
Trade receivables 104 (145) (91)
Trade payables (31) (27) 124
Margin calls 5 (5) —
Change in provisions and pension obligations (25) (58) (24)
Other working capital 4 (53) (12)
Net cash flows from operating activities 447 66 160
Purchases of property, plants, and equipment (271) (277) (276)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (83) — —
Proceeds from disposals, net of cash 2 200 2
Equity contribution and loan to joint ventures — (24) (41)
Other investing activities (1) 10 23
Net cash flows used in investing activities (353) (91) (292)
Net proceeds received from issuance of shares — — 259
Proceeds from issuance of Senior Notes — — 1,440
Repayment of Senior Notes (100) — (1,559)
Lease repayments (86) (15) (13)
Proceeds / (repayments) from revolving credit facilities and other loans 109 (68) 29
Payment of deferred financing costs and exit fees — — (118)
Transactions with non-controlling interests (4) — —
Other financing activities 5 1 23
Net cash flows (used in) / from financing activities (76) (82) 61
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 18 (107) (71)
Cash and cash equivalents—beginning of year 164 269 347
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 2 2 (7)
Cash and cash equivalents—end of year 184 164 269CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSPERFORMANCE REPORT
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
57■  Free float       ■  Bpifrance       ■  T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc.SHAREHOLDING 
STRUCTUREAVERAGE NUMBER OF DAILY SHARES 
TRADED IN 2019
11.9%
81% 1.1   million  
sharesSHARE PRICE EVOLUTION IN 2019 IN US$
15
12
9
6
JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUNE JULY AUG SEP OCT NOV DECPERFORMANCE REPORT
7.1%
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
58* Our EHS Policy, Code of Employee and Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices, and Responsible Supply Chain Management Policy 
can be downloaded at this link: https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct Page Cross reference / additional information
CEO commitment of UNGC 14-15 Interview
Human Rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support and 
respect the protection of internationally 
proclaimed human rights.19, 24,  
40, 41,  
44, 46 
49, 50,  
51, 71
72Our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights and the ASI Performance Standard. The policy’s principles 
were integrated into our Code of Employee and Business Conduct* (Employee CoC) and 
Supplier Code of Conduct* (Supplier CoC). 
In 2019, we organized a group-level workshop that helped identify existing and potential 
human rights risks, and developed a two-phase action plan to mitigate them. 
For more information, see the GRI Content Index, GRI 405-414.Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit  
in human rights abuses.
Labour
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the 
freedom of association and the effective 
recognition of the right to collective bargaining.
19, 24,  
40, 41,  
44, 45,  
49, 50,  
51, 68,  
70, 71Our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights and the ASI Performance Standard. 
Our Employee CoC was updated in 2019, reinforcing our standards on anti-corruption and 
Human Rights and Labor Practices.
We take proactive measures to increase diversity in our workforce and to ensure equality 
and inclusivity for all. As part of our Gender Diversity Program, we are committed to hiring 
a greater number of women, supporting their career development and representation in 
leadership positions, and closing the gender pay gap. 
For more information, see the GRI Content Index, GRI 102-41, 401-409.Principle 4: The elimination of all forms  
of forced and compulsory labour.
Principle 5: The effective abolition  
of child labor.
Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination  
in respect of employment and occupation.
Environment
Principle 7: Businesses should support a 
precautionary approach to environmental 
challenges.15, 19,  
24, 47 ,  
48, 49,  
50Reducing our environmental footprint is at the core of our Employee  
CoC and EHS Policy* .
Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote 
greater environmental responsibility.42, 43,  
47 , 48,  
49, 50,  
52, 53,   
69, 70Product recycling, waste management, energy efficiency, and greenhouse gas 
emissions remain the key areas of focus of our 2020 Sustainability Targets, for which 
many strategies, research projects, and technologies are being developed.
For more about our environmental disclosure, see the GRI Content Index, GRI 301-308.Principle 9: Encourage the development and 
diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Anti-corruption
Principle 10: Businesses should work against 
corruption in all its forms, including extortion  
and bribery.19, 49,  
50, 69We train our employees on anti-corruption through our Employee CoC training. 
In 2019, a special session on anti-corruption with the Executive Committee was 
conducted. Specific training sessions were conducted by our Legal and Internal Audit 
departments with our sales, purchasing, and finance teams. 
We have included anti-corruption principles in our Supplier CoC and added clauses in 
contracts with our customers. We have also put a due diligence process in place for 
business partners. A Whistleblower Policy and Hotline encourage our employees to 
report any suspected wrongdoing.
For more information, see the GRI Content Index, GRI 205.UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) - GC ACTIVE
In 2019, we aligned our 2020 sustainability targets with the eight UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) that are key for our industry. We have also worked to identify the sustainability 
risks affecting Constellium’s activities and aluminium value chain over the short, medium, and 
long term. Not surprisingly, our biggest sustainability risks and opportunities remained the ones 
already identified by our previous Materiality Assessment. We have for many years constructed a 
number of programs and action plans around them, which also align with the UNGC Principles.Sustainability performancePERFORMANCE REPORT
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
59Products  _ See pages 42-43 for more information on Products
* Accounts for change in the calculation method of the beverage can recycling rate to reflect new EU definitions ALUMINIUM BEVERAGE CAN RECYCLING RATES
SAFETY - RECORDABLE CASE RATE*80
70
60
50
40
  Europe   
           U.S.   
54.5%
200043.0%48.4%
200246.0%49.2%
200145.0%56.7%
201472.9%
201554.5%
201649.4%
44.3%
200348.0%
45. 1%
200448.0%
45%
200552.0%
45.3%
200658.0%
48.5%
200761.8%
48.2%
200863. 1%
50.9%
200964.0%
49.7%
201066.7%
54. 1%
201168.3%
54.2%
201269.5%
54.9%
201371.3%
201773.6% 72.8%*74.5%*
201844%49.8%
25
20
15
10
5
* Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours 
worked. Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in these statistics since 2008. Before that, only extended contractors such as canteen 
and security staff were included. See pages 24 and 44 for more information about serious injuries. Constellium         European Aluminium        U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics – Aluminium11.5
200526.0
10.58.4
200718.5
6.710.7
200619.0
8.4 8.47. 2
200817 .5
4.96.2
200918.5
3.86.3
201015
3.56.9
201114
3.27. 8
201214
2.67. 8
201313.5
2.79.2
201416
2.82.87. 3
201510
2.97.1
201693.3
2019
2.4
2018
2.38.210
20178.2
6.3
3.2People  _ See pages 44-46 for more information on PeoplePERFORMANCE REPORT
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
60People  _ See pages 44-46 for more information on People
Apprentice Inactive Permanent Fixed-termTemporary 
(agency, 
excluding 
contractors) Total
All Constellium
Number of employees with  
specific employment typeMale 272 32 - - -
Female 62 14 - - -
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - - 10,079 430
747
Female - - 1,467 102
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time 334 44 11,319 512
747
Part-time 0 2 227 20
TOTAL 13,205
TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 12, 124
Europe   
Number of employees with  
specific employment typeMale 270 2 - - -
Female 60 12 - -
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - - 7 , 192 348
702
Female - - 939 57
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time 330 12 7 ,910 399
702
Part-time 0 2 221 6
TOTAL 9,582
TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 8,550
Asia   
Number of employees with  
specific employment typeMale - - - - -
Female - - - - -
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - - 10 57
0
Female - - 12 18
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time - - 22 62
0
Part-time - - - 13
TOTAL 97
TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 97
North America (United States, Canada, and Mexico)  
Number of employees with  
specific employment typeMale 2 30 - - -
Female 2 2 - - -
Number of employees  
per employment contractMale - - 2,877 25
45
Female - - 516 27
Number of employees working  
full/part timeFull-time 4 32 3,388 51
45
Part-time - - 5 1
TOTAL 3,526
TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 3,477GRI 102-8 INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS
Does not include employees and workers of joint venturesPERFORMANCE REPORT
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
61PERFORMANCE REPORT
Number of new  
employees hired  
in 2019Number of employees  
who left the company  
in 2019Number of  
employees on  
December 31, 2019Turnover rate  
F M F M F M F M
Europe
Under 30 years old 33 163 12 88 129 913 9.30% 9.64%
30-50 years old 99 309 36 179 585 3,818 6. 15% 4.69%
Over 50 years old 5 28 27 218 235 2,463 11.49% 8.85%
TOTAL 137 500 75 485 949 7 , 194 7 .90% 6.74%
North America
Under 30 years old 97 265 69 139 96 428 71.88% 32.48%
30-50 years old 140 348 105 195 264 1,472 39.77% 13.25%
Over 50 years old 53 103 42 127 158 1,007 26.58% 12.61%
TOTAL 290 716 216 461 518 2,907 41.70% 15.86%
Asia
Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0 1 0 0.00% 0.00%
30-50 years old 3 2 2 0 9 7 22.22% 0.00%
Over 50 years old 1 0 1 0 2 3 50.00% 0.00%
TOTAL 4 2 3 0 12 10 25.00% 0.00%
TOTAL
Under 30 years old 130 428 81 227 226 1,341 35.84% 16.92%
30-50 years old 242 659 143 374 858 5,297 16.67% 7 .06%
Over 50 years old 59 131 70 345 395 3,473 17 .72% 9.93%
TOTAL 431 1,218 294 946 1,479 10, 111 19.88% 9.36%
* Turnover rate is calculated as number of employees who left the company in 2019 divided by the number of employees on the 31st of December 2019.
** Employees of joint ventures are not material to Constellium’s total number of employees. GRI 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER* 
Permanent employees excluding those of joint ventures**  
* “Operators” refers to employees working on the shop floors; “managers” refers to employees with administrative or managerial roles .GRI 404-1 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE
Female Male Managers*Operators*All employees
All Constellium
Average training hours per year/employee 28.5 21.9 19. 1 22.8 22.7
GRI 405-1 DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES 
Permanent employees excluding those of joint ventures*
Female Male Total Age %
Board Members
Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0%
30-50 years old 1 0 1 9%
Over 50 years old 2 8 10 91%
TOTAL 3 8 11 100%
GENDER % 27% 73% 100%
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
62Job Levels Age Ranges Female Male Total % Age % Female % Male
All Constellium
Executive Committee MembersUnder 30 years old 0 0 0 0% - -
30-50 years old 1 2 3 30% - -
Over 50 years old 0 7 7 70% - -
SUBTOTAL 1 9 10 - 10% 90%
Vice Presidents & DirectorsUnder 30 years old 0 0 0 0% - -
30-50 years old 10 56 66 52% - -
Over 50 years old 5 56 61 48% - -
SUBTOTAL 15 112 127 - 12% 88%
Senior Managers / Senior Experts / 
Individual Contributors / Technical 
Master ExpertsUnder 30 years old 94 225 319 13% - -
30-50 years old 345 1,090 1,435 57% - -
Over 50 years old 122 629 751 30% - -
SUBTOTAL 561 1,944 2,505 - 22% 78%
Technicians & OperatorsUnder 30 years old 132 1, 115 1,247 14% - -
30-50 years old 502 4, 151 4,653 52% - -
Over 50 years old 268 2,780 3,048 34% - -
SUBTOTAL 902 8,046 8,948 - 10% 90%
TOTAL 1,479 10, 111 11,590 - 13% 87%
* Employees of joint ventures are not included in Constellium's total number of employees.
Job Level** Ratio W to M
All Constellium
Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 96%
Senior Managers 81%
Technicians & Operators 84%
Europe
Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 111%
Senior Managers 80%
Technicians & Operators 82%
North America
Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 77%
Senior Managers 83%
Technicians & Operators 80%GRI 405-2 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN AND MEN 
Permanent employees excluding joint ventures and Asia*
* Employees of operations in Asia and joint ventures are not included in Constellium’s total number of employees. 
** Vice Presidents / Senior Directors includes executive committee members; “Operators” refers to employees working on the shop floors; “Managers” refers to employees with 
administrative or managerial roles.PERFORMANCE REPORT
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
63Operations  _ See pages 47-48 for more information on OperationsPERFORMANCE REPORT
Constellium uses a significant share of recycled aluminium to manufacture our products. On average, recycled 
aluminium accounted for 38% of our product content in 2019. Of this, 18% was post-consumer scrap (generated 
at the end-of-life phase of finished goods), and 20% was pre-consumer production scrap (generated downstream 
from Constellium’s operations). This recycled material input does not account for internally generated scrap, in line 
with the ISO 14021 standard.
That being said, Constellium does not consider that recycled content should be singled out as the only relevant 
indicator for the environmental performance of aluminium products. We prefer to focus on a product’s end-of-life 
recycling, to ensure that valuable resources are reliably and efficiently collected and recycled. 
For more on recycling and Constellium's advocacy on this topic, please consult our website at  
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/aluminium-recycling2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Direct energy (TJ)
Anthracite 500 522 389 408 346
LPG 15 15 15 14 15
Natural gas 13,274 13, 198 13,512 13,495 13,471
Diesel 120 118 116 115 107
Heavy fuel 163 154 152 155 119
Renewable sources 0 0 0 0 0
TOTAL 14,071 14,008 14, 185 14, 187 14,058
Indirect energy (TJ)
ElectricityPurchased 5,583 5,777 5,938 5,870 6,016
Sold 0 0 0 0 0
SteamPurchased 0 0 0 0 0
Sold 112 194 104 120 110
TOTAL DIRECT + INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ) 19,542 19,591 20,019 19,937 19,964
Raw energy consumption per metric ton is not necessarily the most relevant indicator of energy efficiency, because we need to take 
into account the effect of different product mixes. For instance, the manufacture of automotive sheet requires significantly more 
energy during rolling and finishing operations than beverage can body sheet. Therefore, increasing the share of one product over 
another will affect the overall energy per metric ton, independently of any other change. For this reason, we have identified the relative 
energy consumption per metric ton of different product lines and use this to transpose raw data on energy per metric ton into an 
energy efficiency index. This index reflects the intrinsic manufacturing performance of our operations, regardless of any changes  
in our product mix. See page 48 for more information on our efforts to increase energy efficiency.FROM ENERGY CONSUMPTION TO ENERGY EFFICIENCYGRI 302-1 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION IN TERAJOULE (TJ) 
GRI 301-2 RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS USED
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
64* Production data before elimination 
of intra-group flows.  Water consumption (m3/year)  
      
  Production (kt Al)  35 
30
25
20
15
10
5
2019
28.4
2018
30.4
2017
28.6
2016
29.7millions of
m3/year
1,750 
1,500
1,250
1,000
750
500
250kt Al/yearPERFORMANCE REPORT
30
25
20 
15
10
5
0
  2016     2017    2018     2019 GRI 303-3 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL IN MILLION CUBIC METERS
WATER FROM 
PUBLIC NET
0.40.4
0.4
0.4GROUND WATER
22.522.2
24.5
22.9SURFACE 
WATER
5.77.1
5.5
5 .1TOTAL WATER
28.629.7
30.4
28.4
GRI 303-5 WATER CONSUMPTION IN MILLION CUBIC METERS  
Water use is mainly driven by cooling 
operations during metal casting and 
rolling activities. Since 2016, the water 
consumption slightly decreased despite 
a production* increase.
300
250
200
150 
100
50
0
* Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) **Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 2016     2017    2018     2019 GRI 306-1 WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION IN METRIC TONS  
BOD5 *  39
60.3
49.9
81.8TOTAL 
SUSPENDED 
SOLIDS  
104.4
96.7
111.3
91.4TOTAL 
FLUORIDES  
11.84.2
12.9
14TOTAL  
HYDROCARBON 
3.44.9
6.5
5.5DISSOLVED 
ALUMINIUM 
32.7
4 .1
2.5COD **  
287 .2
232.8
287206.7
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
65PERFORMANCE REPORT
* Non-production waste refers to waste generated from activities such as construction or demolition.150
100
50
01,000
750 
500
250
0
Waste (t) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Recycling  127 ,526    140,466    153, 179    149,028    150,961   
% Recycling 79% 76% 80% 80% 81%
Incineration  6,304    8,781    7 ,375    6,243   6,036
% Incineration 4% 5% 4% 3% 3%
Landfill production  24,880    30, 151    28,569    27 ,560   25,607
Landfill non-production*  3,206  4,266  3,404    3,623   4,730
% Total landfill 17% 19% 17% 17% 16%
Total Waste  161,916  183,664    192,528     186,454   187 ,333
Total hazardous waste  120,417  133,777  144,659    141,627   132,549
Total non-hazardous waste  41,499    49,888  47 ,869    44,827 54,784
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste categories are defined in accordance with the definition outlined in the EU Waste Framework Directive.
* Non-production waste refers to waste generated from activities such as construction or demolition.GRI 306-2 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD IN METRIC TONS  
RECYCLING INCINERATION LANDFILL-
PRODUCTIONLANDFILL- 
NON-PRODUCTION*127 ,526
140,466
153, 179
149,028
150,961
24,880
30, 151
28,569
27 ,560
25,6077 ,3758,781
6,243
6,0366,304
3,4044,266
3,623
4,7303,206
 2015     2016     2017    2018     2019 GRI 305- 7 NITROGEN OXIDES (NO x), SULFUR OXIDES (SOx ), AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT  
AIR EMISSIONS IN METRIC TONS  
Air emissions are calculated based on one or two spot measurements per year. This can cause significant fluctuations from 
one year to another. Air emissions have improved slightly since 2015, while our production has increased.
NOx
9091,059
865
955PARTICULATE 
MATERIALS
557625
492
405VOC *
1, 1411,325
1, 155
973SO2
244262
245
215
 2016     2017    2018     2019 
* Volatile Organic Compounds Emissions (VOC)
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
66PERFORMANCE REPORT
Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
GRI 102 General disclosure
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Constellium SE (Constellium)
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium
A global sector leader
Our main brands are: Airware®, Sealium, Alumold®, Unidal, Herkal, HK34, 
Xtral 728, Diamal R, Diamal S, Alplan, Certal, Fortal, Alcast, Fibral, Surfalex®, 
Formalex®, Strongalex®, Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, 
Longlinefinish®, Securalex®, Constellium HSA6®, Constellium HCA6®, 
Modalex®, Butlerfinish®, Staybright®, Keikor®, Aeral®, Dokima®, Kool X®,  
@bright®, Gripster and AHEADD™12-13
16
3-9
26-35
102-3 Location of headquarters Paris, France
102-4 Location of operations A global sector leader 16, 29, 
31, 33
102-5 Ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with
the highest ethical standards and best practices, to be responsive to our 
shareholders and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide Code of 
Conduct. We are listed on NYSE under the ticker symbol ‘CSTM’ . Shareholders 
as of December 31, 2019 – free float: 81%; Bpifrance: 11.9%; T. Rowe Price 
Associates, Inc. 7 . 1%
102-6 Markets served A global sector leader 16-17 , 
26-35
102- 7 Scale of the organization Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium
A global sector leader12-13
16-17
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainability performance 61
102-9 Supply chain Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 12-13
102-10 Significant changes to the organization  
and its supply chainConstellium acquired the remaining 49% stake in Constellium-UACJ ABS, 
LLC (CUA) in January 2019, making it fully owned by Constellium.  
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Sustainability Targets for 2020
Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets out the 
standard of behavior we expect from our employees: https:/ /www.
constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct37
102-12 External initiatives We are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact
Memberships15, 59
73
102-13 Membership in associations Memberships 73
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Interview 14-15
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance
Our Sustainability Targets for 2020
Using materiality assessments to build action plans
Engaging in greenhouse gas emissions reduction18-19
37
40-41
52-53
Ethics and integrity   
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms  
of behaviorCEO Interview
Governance - Policies
Achieving ASI Certification
Ensuring sustainable purchasing
UNGC membership
Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets out the stand-
ard of behavior we expect from our employees: https:/ /www.constellium.
com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct14-15
18-19
49
50
15, 59
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 
ethicsGovernance; 
Constellium's Integrity hotline is an independent service that provides a 
means for employees to anonymously and confidentially report violations 
of the Code of Conduct as well as other unethical, illegal or irresponsible 
dealings via phone or web-form 24/7 . The hotline is available in all local 
languages. All concerns are documented by the external hotline operator 
and shared with the assigned case manager in the respective country for 
investigation and resolution. In 2019, we recorded 27 claims via the Hotline. 
All cases from 2019 have been investigated and closed.18-19GRI content index
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
67Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Governance 18-21
Stakeholder engagement   
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Governance
Using materiality assessments to build action plans
Memberships18-19
40-41
73
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 97% of the employees at our non-U.S. locations are covered by collective 
agreements. Approximately 42% of U.S. employees are covered by collec-
tive bargaining agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Governance
Using materiality assessments to build action plans
Achieving ASI Certification18-19
40-41
49
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Governance
Using materiality assessments to build action plans
Making every effort for our customers
Achieving ASI Certification18-19
40-41
43
49
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Governance
Our Sustainability Targets for 2020
Using materiality assessments to build action plans18-19
37
40-41
Reporting practice   
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statementsAll entities owned by Constellium and all operating joint ventures
controlled by Constellium during reporting year 2019.
This includes all sites mentioned on pages 16, 29, 31, and 33
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Using materiality assessments to build action plans
In 2017 , we renewed and broadened our previous materiality
assessment performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most
to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are
aligned with this vision.
See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance 
Report for more, available at https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/
files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf  40-41
102-47 List of material topics Using materiality assessments to build action plans
See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance 
Report for more, available at https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/
files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf  40-41
102-48 Restatements of information Past energy and GHG data were amended to account for identified 
reporting errors and to reflect a revision of emission factors. 
Overall impact on published data is limited to less than 2% for scopes 
1+2 and below 1% for energy use.  
2018 waste data disclosed in 2019 was found to be overestimated and 
was corrected to account for reporting errors.53, 64
66
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period About this report 74
102-51 Date of most recent report Issued in 2019. Available on our website’s sustainability section at 
https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/constellium_business_
and_sustainability_report_2018_3.pdf
102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 74
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 74
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option
102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 67-72
102-56 External assurance Constellium’s non-financial performance statement (déclaration de
performance extra-financière), received its first audit from an
independent third party, PwC. The audit verified our compliance with the
provisions of the French Commercial Code (article R. 225-105), along with the 
accuracy of the information provided, such as key performance indicators and 
measures taken to address risks (article R. 225-105 I, 3, and II). In this report, 
we indicate the data reviewed by PwC with footnotes throughout the text,  
and with  for the tables and graphics.   
About this report74
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
68PERFORMANCE REPORT
Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
GRI 103 Management approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundaryUsing materiality assessments to build action plans
In 2017 , we renewed and broadened our previous materiality
assessment performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most
to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are
aligned with this vision.
See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and sustainability performance
report for more, available at https:/ /www.constellium.com/sites/default/
files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf  40-41
103-2 The management approach and its components Governance
Our Sustainability Targets for 202018-19
37
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance
Using materiality assessments to build action plans18-19
40-41
GRI 205 Anti-corruption
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related  
to corruptionOur Internal Control Department continues to carry out fraud and 
corruption risk assessments in 2019 using an internal questionnaire at 
key sites. Site Risk Champions assess their level of risk regarding fraud 
and anti-corruption and follow-up mitigation plans as defined in their 
site's roadmap. 
205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresGovernance - Policies
We communicate and train our Executive Committee and employees 
on anti-corruption through our Code of Conduct (CoC) training. Please 
refer to page 19 for our CoC training rate. In 2019, a special session on 
anti-corruption with the Executive Committee was conducted. Training 
was conducted by our legal department with our sales team in Shanghai, 
China, and the purchasing and sales teams in Issoire, France. The finance 
teams in Bowling Green, United States and De ˇcˇín, Czech Republic were 
trained by our Internal Audit department.
We have included anti-corruption principles in our Supplier Code of 
Conduct for our business partners, and clauses in contracts with 
our customers. We have also put a due diligence process in place for 
business partners.19
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption  
and actions takenNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 301 Materials
301-2 Recycled input materials used Average recycled aluminium input of 38% in 2019, of which 20% was pre-
consumer scrap and 18% post-consumer scrap. 64
GRI 302 Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability performance 64
302-3 Energy intensity Energy efficiency metrics are disclosed on page 48 and the Energy 
efficiency section of the Sustainability Performance section.
Principle of metrics is explained in the energy performance section48 
64
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption a.  Total energy savings: 1,342 TJ
b.  Savings by energy source: fossil fuels 815 TJ; Electricity 527 TJ
c.  Baseline year is 2015
d.  Use of internal calculation tool to assess what energy would have been 
used in the corresponding year by applying the 2015 energy/t ratio of 
each production unit and applying where necessary a correction factor 
to account for changes in product mix. 
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 
and servicesFor automotive and aerospace applications, we account for the reduction in 
a product's life cycle energy requirements due to the energy savings from 
using our aluminium products, compared to reference materials such as 
automotive steel or previous generations of aerospace aluminium alloys. 
An estimate based on life cycle assessment calculations leads to savings of 
over 30,000 TJ for products delivered in 2019, throughout their lifetime.
We plan to further expand this assessment in the future with a more 
complete coverage of our product range. 
We based our assumption on an estimate of mass saved in automotive  
and aerospace applications and used data from our LCA tool, following  
the ISO14040-44 standard. 
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
69PERFORMANCE REPORT
Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
GRI 303 Water and Effluents
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource a.  Use of water is mainly concentrated on cooling operations during metal casting 
(primarily) and rolling activity. Quality could be managed through the use of water 
treatment systems at higher costs.  
b.  Use of water is being handled within the scope of our ISO14001 certification. We 
also check the status of water risks using the online Aqueduct tool that we last 
ran in 2020. We plan to update this on a regular basis. 
c.  We request our key suppliers to be assessed regarding their sustainability 
performance, including water-related issues. Water-related aspects are also 
included in the scope of audits performed at suppliers' premises that are 
expected to be at higher risk. We aim to have 100% of our key and higher risk 
suppliers assessed by 2020. Along with other partners of the aluminium value 
chain, we engaged in the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), which built a 
standard for responsible aluminium. Water management issues are included in 
the ASI standard that was defined at the end of 2017 . 
d.  There is currently no specific water-related goal. We rely on local environmental 
management to handle water-related topics as a function of local conditions 
(water availability and quality, local stakeholders such as environmental or water 
agencies, regulations...)49
303-2 Management of water  
discharge-related impactsWater discharge management is done according to local regulations and our own 
water management policy, and is included in the ISO14001 certification scope of 
our plants. 65
303-3 Water withdrawal a.  Sustainability performance
b.  In 2019, water withdrawal from areas with water stress, according to the WRI 
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, was 19.9 megaliters. In all cases, the water source 
was municipal water.
c.  All displayed numbers relate to freshwater. No “other water” source was used.
d.  No assumptions used, data was collected from sites’ environmental management 
and consolidated in central database. 65
303-4 Water discharge Sustainability performance 65
303-5 Water consumption We considered water consumption volumes as water volumes released to a 
different water type (e.g. groundwater released to surface water). 
a.  Sustainability performance. All volumes are to be considered except those 
sourced from surface water.
b.  In 2019, water withdrawal from areas with water stress was 19.9 megaliters.  
In all cases, the water source was municipal water.
c.  No significant water storage change. 
d.  Only four of our sites are concerned; their water consumption only accounts for 
0.09% of our total consumption. Their production processes do not use water  
(no cooling water, no surface treatment, etc.). 65
GRI 305 Emissions
305-1 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Engaging in greenhouse gas emissions reduction 52-53
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Engaging in greenhouse gas emissions reduction 52-53
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Engaging in greenhouse gas emissions reduction 52-53
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded during the reporting year
305- 7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and 
other significant air emissionsSustainability performance 66
GRI 306 Effluents and waste
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Sustainability performance 65
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability performance 66
306-3 Significant spills No significant spills recorded in the reporting year
GRI 307 Environmental Compliance
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulationsWe have eight ongoing cases of non-compliance, some require investment and time to 
be addressed. We are closely following those cases and working to resolve them.
GRI 308 Supplier environmental assessment
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaEnsuring sustainable purchasing 50
GRI 401 Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability performance 62
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 
are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employeesPart-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; temporary 
workers are not eligible for the same benefits. Some selected benefits related to 
health insurance are granted depending on seniority.
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
70PERFORMANCE REPORT
Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
GRI 402 Labor Management relations
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 
changesThe minimum notice period changes depending on the country of operation and is 
based on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question
GRI 403 Occupational health and safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management 
systemEnvironment, health and safety
a.  We have a policy requesting our sites to be certified by ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001
b.  The policy and certification scope cover employees and workers who are not 
employees but whose work and/or workplace is on Constellium premises.24
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment,  
and incident investigationEnvironment, health and safety
Reinforcing our culture of safe behavior24
44
403-3 Occupational health services Environment, health and safety 24
403-4 Worker participation, consultation,  
and communication on occupational health  
and safety100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and safety committees
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and 
safetyEnvironment, health and safety
Reinforcing our culture of safe behavior24
44
403-6 Promotion of worker health Environment, health and safety 
Our objective is to prevent work-related diseases and to promote employee 
health. Many of our sites offer health programs such as flu vaccinations, 
fitness classes, eye testing, and other benefits. Most of our locations have an 
Employee Assistance Program to support our employees dealing with personal 
concerns and stress. Some sites provide such support through training, union 
representatives, or regular team discussions on the topic.24
403- 7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationshipsEnvironment, health and safety
Reinforcing our culture of safe behavior24
44
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management systemEnvironment, health and safety
Reinforcing our culture of safe behavior
76% of our sites are ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001 certified24
44
403-9 Work-related injuries Environment, health and safety
Reinforcing our culture of safe behavior
Sustainability performance24
44
60
GRI 404 Training and education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Sustainability performance 62
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviewsMore than 65% of our employees receive regular performance reviews. The 
professional grade employees receive annual reviews of performance and career 
development through the global HR platform, SuccessFactors. Performance 
review for non-professional grade employees is managed on a site-by-site basis.
GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Sustainability performance 62-63
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration  
of women to menSustainability performance 63
GRI 406 Non-discrimination
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenIn 2019, our Integrity Hotline recorded four claims alleging incidents of 
discrimination. The claims were investigated by the local case officers, and the 
results of the investigation were reviewed by our Compliances Committee. In 
each of the four cases, there was no evidence to support the alleged claims of 
discrimination and thus they were subsequently closed. 
GRI 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining 
may be at riskOur Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining, and our operations are located in countries 
where such risks are not significant. 97% of the employees at our non-U.S. 
locations are covered by collective agreements; approximately 42% of U.S. 
employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50
GRI 408 Child labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of child laborOur Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes this essential right and is 
implemented through our Code of Conduct.
Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50
GRI 409 Forced or compulsory labor 
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory laborOur Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes  
this essential right and is implemented through our Code of Conduct. 
Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
71PERFORMANCE REPORT
Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages
GRI 412 Human rights assessment
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessmentsCelebrating diversity
Since the end of 2018, we have conducted human rights risk assessment 
workshops at 12 of our sites: Nanjing, Singen, Neuf-Brisach, De ˇcˇín, Levice, 
Žilina, Muscle Shoals, Ravenswood, White, Van Buren, Bowling Green, and 
San Luis Potosí. 
In April 2019, we organized a global workshop with leadership from 
different key functions to discuss these risks. It produced a Constellium 
human rights heat map which was presented to the Executive Committee.51
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 
proceduresCelebrating diversity
The principles of our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices have been
incorporated into our Code of Conduct. Employees are thus trained on
human rights during Code of Conduct training. We also communicate 
human rights principles through our internal magazine, “LIVE” , distributed 
to all employees in local languages.51
19
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts 
that include human rights clauses or that 
underwent human rights screeningEnsuring sustainable purchasing
Human Rights Principles are explicitly mentioned in our Supplier Code of
Conduct, available at https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/
downloads/policies-codes-conduct50
GRI 413 Local communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programsSupporting our communities 46
GRI 414 Supplier social assessment
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 
criteriaEnsuring sustainable purchasing 50
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 
actions takenAchieving ASI Certification
Ensuring sustainable purchasing49
50
GRI 415 Public policy
415-1 Political contributions None – it is our policy to not make any political contributions.
GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 
health and safety impacts of products and servicesNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 417 Marketing and labeling
417-1 Requirements for product and service 
information and labeling• Sourcing of raw material: 100% of our products comply with conflict 
minerals regulations and Constellium communicates the corresponding 
information on our website (https:/ /www.constellium.com/sustainability/
downloads/disclosure-and-certifications).
• Content with substances that might produce an environmental or social
impact and safe use of the products and services: 100% of our semi-
products (cast, rolled, or extruded) are covered by corresponding 
Manufacturer Safety Data Sheets, available on our website (https:/ /www.
constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/material-safety-data-sheets). 
Constellium also complies with REACH regulations, which covers the 
majority of our production.
• Disposal of products and environmental and social impacts: we
communicate, advocate, and engage in promoting even higher recycling rates
for aluminium in all products.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 
and service information and labelingNone recorded during the reporting year
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 418 Customer privacy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 
of customer privacy and losses of customer dataNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 419 Socioeconomic compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations  
in the social and economic areaSignificant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with
laws and regulations: none recorded during the reporting year
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
72PERFORMANCE REPORT
Forward-looking statements
Certain statements contained in this report may constitute forward-looking 
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995. 
This report may contain “forward-looking statements” with respect to our 
business, results of operations and financial condition, and our 
expectations or beliefs concerning future events and conditions. You can 
identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as, 
but not limited to, “believes, ” “expects, ” “may, ” “should, ” “approximately, ” 
“anticipates, ” “estimates, ” “intends, ” “plans, ” “targets, ” “likely, ” “will, ” “would, ” 
“could” and similar expressions (or the negative of these terminologies or 
expressions). 
All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Many risks 
and uncertainties are inherent in our industry and markets, while others are 
more specific to our business and operations. These risks and uncertainties 
include, but are not limited to: market competition; economic downturn; 
disruption to business operations, including the length and magnitude of disruption resulting from the global COVID-19 pandemic; the inability to 
meet customer demand and quality requirements; the loss of key 
customers, suppliers or other business relationships; the capacity and 
effectiveness of our hedging policy activities; the loss of key employees; 
levels of indebtedness which could limit our operating flexibility and 
opportunities; and other risk factors set forth under the heading “Risk 
Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 20-F , and as described from time to 
time in subsequent reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission. 
The occurrence of the events described and the achievement of the 
expected results depend on many events, some or all of which are not 
predictable or within our control. Consequently, actual results may differ 
materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this report. We 
undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement 
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as 
required by law.Associations Has positions in governanceParticipates in  
projects and  
committees
Aluminium Association (AA) Member Board of Directors, Executive Committee Member Yes
Aluminium France Member of the Board Yes
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member of Standard Committee Yes
Alupro Member of the Board Yes
ARPAL, Spain Member of the Board No
Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) No Yes
Association of the United States Army (AUSA) No No
Can Manufacturers Institute No Yes
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No
European Aluminium Executive Committee Member, Member of the Packaging  
Group Board and Member of the Automotive &  
Transportation Chair of several committees Group BoardYes
European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member Yes
Every Can Counts  Executive Committee Member Yes
Fédération des Forges et Fonderies Yes Yes
France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) President Yes
France Industrie Member No
Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of the Board Yes
La Boîte Boisson (BCME) No Yes
Latas de Bebidas Yes Yes
Metal Packaging Europe (MPE) No Yes
Recal Foundation Poland Board member Yes
Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) Board member Yes
Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes,  
emballages et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM)No Yes
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No
Wirtschafts Grosshandel Metallehalbzeug (WGM) No Yes
Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of the Board Yes
Wirtschaftsvereinigung der Metalle Member of the Board NoMemberships
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
73Reporting period
Financial year 2019
(January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019)
Date of publication 
June 2020
 
Report scope 
The data or financials relate to Constellium 
worldwide falling within the scope of consolidation at 
December 31, 2019.
Report content 
The content of this report is based on our 
business data and the results of our dialogue with 
stakeholders, the Global Reporting  
Initiative Standards: Core option and other 
sustainability ratings and rankings.
Global Reporting Initiative 
GRI Standards: Core option
Assurance 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the 
GRI Standards: Core option and maintains a code of 
reporting as advised by GRI. Data 
The data included in this report has been the 
object of an audit from a third party, PwC, as part of 
Constellium's non-financial performance statement. 
The audit verified our compliance with the provisions 
of the French Commercial Code (article R. 225-105),  
along with the accuracy of the information provided 
(article R. 225-105 I, 3, and II). PwC is not responsible 
for assuring our compliance, nor that of our products 
and services, with other applicable legal and 
regulatory provisions. We have specified the data 
reviewed by PwC in this report. 
Disclosure 
This report covers 2019 business and sustainability 
achievements and was developed before the 2020 
Covid-19 crisis. Content, including business and 
market updates, EHS and sustainability policies  
and related action plans, does not take into account 
the impact and consequences of this pandemic  
on our business.
Contact 
communications@constellium.com or
sustainability@constellium.com
Coordination: Corporate Communications Department and Sustainability Council.
Design and production: Angie
Credits: ©Getty Images/Tetra Images, ©Getty Images/Guillaume Chanson, ©Getty Images/Moazzam Ali Brohi, ©iStockphoto.com/
Paket, ©iStockphoto.com/TimAwe, ©iStockphoto.com/obewon, ©iStockphoto.com/koosen, ©iStockphoto.com/Thomas-Soellner, 
©iStockphoto.com/JoZtar, ©iStockphoto.com/letoosen, ©iStockphoto.com/lena_serditova, ©iStockphoto.com/AntonMatveev, 
©iStockphoto.com/amygdala_imagery, ©iStockphoto.com/claudio.arnese, ©iStock/typhoonski, ©iStockphoto.com/Rockfinder, 
©iStockphoto.com/den-belitsky, ©Adobe Stock/ake1150, ©Shutterstock/Brenda Carson, ©Unsplash.com/jpvalery, ©Unsplash.com/
steeeve, ©Unsplash.com/williambout, ©Constellium, ©Courtesy/Patrick Allard/REA, ©Hubert RaguetAbout this report
Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019
74www.constellium.com