Photo courtesy of Corning employee  
Niranjan ThontadaryaSUST AINABILITY  
REPORT
2021
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022T able of 
Contents
3
4
6
7
10
14
19
27
39
53
61
72About this Report
From our CEO
2021 Sustainability Highlights
Who We Are and What We Do
Success Depends on  
Support from our Stakeholders
Delivering Value Through our  
Products and T echnologies
Sustainability at Corning
Environment
People
Communities
Governance
Appendix
© Christopher Payne / Esto
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Corning Incorporated is pleased to present our annual Sustainability Report. In this report, we 
update our progress against our 12 sustainability goals, which we introduced in 2020 to accelerate 
and focus our efforts to address environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. 
The data in this report reflect Corning’s worldwide operations across all reportable business 
segments for calendar year 2021, unless otherwise noted. This report has been prepared with 
reference to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) standards. It also responds to the Hardware 
Sustainability Accounting Standard, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  
sector‑ specific standard most relevant for our business. This year, we have also aligned 
our disclosures with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendations as well as relevant United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals  
for which we have the greatest impact. We are committed to providing annual updates on our 
sustainability performance and strive to expand our disclosures in future reports. 
We have noted throughout the report where data has received third-party assurance. More 
information about our sustainability goals can be found on page 23 . More information about  
how we applied the reporting standards can be found on pages 74-91 .
Optical Communications 
headquarters building  
Charlotte, North CarolinaAbout this Report
Image courtesy of Gensler
About this Report 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 3 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022“For 170 years, we’ve 
provided ongoing value to 
society with life-changing 
and lifesaving innovations.”From our CEO
At Corning, we know glass. Time and 
again, we’ve proven the potential 
and versatility of this incredible 
material, employing its remarkable 
set of technical attributes to forge a 
path forward when the world needs 
impactful change. 
Our deep understanding and 
expertise in the fields of glass science 
and engineering stretch back nearly 
two centuries. And — every day — we 
continue to create and characterize 
new glasses from the nearly infinite 
range of potential compositions. 
Clearly, we’re working with a powerful 
problem solver. That’s why we 
dedicate a significant portion of 
revenue to research, development, 
and engineering. It is central to 
our purpose; we seek to lead in 
capabilities that are vital to progress. 
And our track record shows the 
benefits our investments deliver for all 
stakeholders.
For 170 years, we’ve provided ongoing 
value to society with life-changing and 
lifesaving innovations. T oday, we’re 
positioned at the center of major 
industry transformations touching 
many facets of daily life. We’re helping 
our customers move toward a world 
with nearly infinite and ubiquitous 
bandwidth; a world where you can do 
more right from your mobile device, 
protected by cover materials that 
can withstand even greater abuse; a 
world with large, lifelike displays; one 
where cars are cleaner, autonomous, 
and connected; and a world in which 
medicines are individualized, effective, 
and safe.
Looking forward, I believe that 
Corning’s model for ongoing value 
creation — and the way it defines 
our relationship with all stakeholders 
— is more relevant than ever. As we 
detail in this report, the confluence 
of consequential events over the 
last year and the need to operate effectively to serve our stakeholders 
during a pandemic has required that we 
embrace creative new ways of doing 
business. We’re living through the kind 
of moment that tends to bring true 
character to light. At Corning, our Values 
are evident in our actions. In the face of 
multiple challenges, we’ve prioritized 
protecting our people and delivering 
for customers. We’re collaboratively 
problem solving in the public and private 
sectors to achieve purpose-driven 
outcomes. And we’ve accelerated 
— with even greater urgency — the 
integration of social and environmental 
considerations, sustainable practices, 
and good governance into our business.
We also recognize that we have the 
opportunity to share resources and 
leadership on a range of important 
issues. Society shares a set of significant 
problems — many of which are systemic 
and long-standing, such as climate 
change and inequality. Our company 
embraces the increased demands 
and expectations put on organizations 
seeking to drive continued success.
We’ve always operated under the 
conviction that financial performance 
is not sufficient — we must strive to be 
a catalyst for positive change and help 
make the world just a little bit better. 
This is a fundamental aspiration for a 
company paving the way for its  
next 170 years of success.
2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 4 From our CEO"The promise and potential of 
a material that begins with a 
simple grain of sand is nothing 
short of inspirational. Y ou can 
see why we believe Corning’s 
greatest contributions are  
yet to come."We must position ourselves to 
continue inventing products that help 
deliver benefits to an overwhelming 
percentage of the global population. 
We do that by maintaining deep, 
long-standing relationships with our 
customers. They rely on our expertise 
and unique capabilities, which we 
can only offer by employing and 
retaining the best talent. So, when 
we ask people to join us, we want 
them to spend their entire work lives 
at Corning. We provide our people 
with many different experiences to 
enrich their careers and prosper. By 
extension, we take an active role in the 
communities where we work and live, 
because we want our employees to 
enjoy them, and we want their children 
to stay and join us as well. Finally, given 
our long-term focus, we must always 
be working on discovering the next 
advancement that will power us for 
generations to come. 
Through this lens, we see distinct 
opportunities to continue making 
a positive difference in this era — 
through our products and through 
thoughtful actions involving every 
facet of our day-to-day operations. 
We recognize that Corning’s 
proprietary manufacturing processes, 
to melt glass and fire ceramics, rely 
heavily on heat and water. So, it is our 
responsibility to find ways to navigate 
the global energy transition in the 
years ahead. That’s why we continue 
to take meaningful steps in the right 
direction. In October of 2021, we 
established new greenhouse gas 
reduction goals, aligning with the Paris 
Agreement, for Scope 1+2 emissions, 
as well as major categories of Scope 3 
emissions. We’ll use power purchase 
agreements rather than carbon 
offsets. We are working toward 100% 
renewable electricity usage in the 
United States, Canada, and Europe 
in the next few years. Corning is 
also investing in product life-cycle 
assessments. And our engineers and 
scientists are working on establishing 
fundamentally lower-carbon ways 
to manufacture glass — an important 
step to reaching long-term net zero in 
the future.
As we will detail in this year’s 
Sustainability Report, the challenges of 2021 did not deter us from our 
commitment to having a tangible 
impact in everything we do. Let me 
give you some additional examples.
In 2021: 
• We hosted COVID-19 vaccination 
clinics at sites around the world, 
including Mexico, South Korea, 
China, and the U.S. In Reynosa, 
Mexico, for example, we helped 
administer well over 100,000 
doses of vaccines and boosters 
to employees and community 
members. And we’ve provided 
more than 200,000 diagnostic 
tests for employees around  
the world.
•  We kicked off a five‑year, $5.5 
million partnership with the nation’s 
largest historically Black university, 
North Carolina Agricultural and 
T echnical State University. Our 
work will prepare students for  
STEM careers. 
•  We engaged our Board of 
Directors to provide guidance and 
resources to our Office of Racial 
Equality and Social Unity, utilizing 
our members’ diverse experience, 
gender, age, and ethnicity to 
advance this new initiative. 
•  And finally, we were a pioneer in 
the United States on gender pay 
equity, and once we achieved 
100%, we applied the same 
groundbreaking approach on a 
global scale, reaching all salaried 
employees. We also expanded 
the reach of our DE&I office with 
regional business councils. 
I feel good about our efforts to 
bolster equality inside and outside 
the company and our progress on our 
sustainability initiatives. And as we do 
all of this, we will progress together 
and advance our journey to become a 
better version of ourselves.
Along these lines, I’ll leave you with a 
point of great inspiration to me: 2022 
has been designated by the United 
Nations as the International Y ear of 
Glass. We’re celebrating this amazing 
material not only for what it holds, 
protects, and makes possible, but also 
for how delicate, strong, and infinite its potential becomes when combined 
with creativity and vision. In fact, we 
are targeting applications across most 
of the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals, which seek to solve the 
most important problems facing 
humanity and the planet today. Glass 
is a limitless reservoir for scientists’ 
dreams. It can revolutionize how we 
harness clean energy from the sun. It 
can pull carbon out of thin air. And it 
provides exciting solutions to power 
cleaner vehicles.
The promise and potential of a 
material that begins with a simple 
grain of sand is nothing short of 
inspirational. Y ou can see why 
we believe Corning’s greatest 
contributions are yet to come. And 
that’s saying a lot, given our history. 
I’m confident that we will continue 
to do our part through whatever 
unknowable challenges and upheavals 
we confront, because we will always 
be able to draw upon our ultimate 
strength: the direct connection 
among our purpose, our people, and 
the interest of all our stakeholders.
Wendell P . Weeks
Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer
2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 5 From our CEOcommunity solar projects launchedconsecutive year
named by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection 
Agency as an  ENERGY ST AR® 
Partner of the year8th
criteria to our Supplier 
Code of ConductAdded
diverse directors
appointed to our BoardenvironmentalHuman Rights Campaign
F oundation’s 2021 
Corporate Equality IndexSTEM partnershipdoses of COVID-19
vaccines delivered
 in grantsRecognized by 
Forbes as one of the 
World’s Best 
Employersestablished with North Carolina 
A&T State Universitywith the help of Corning Valor® 
Glass, Velocity® Vials, and 
pharmaceutical tubing
provided by the Corning 
Incorporated Foundationwith Corning corporate health and 
safety standards at Corning sites
90% 
score5-y ear , $5 .5m
completed Supply Chain Social
Responsibility eLearning>300 suppliers
2 new 
Board members are 
independent14 out of 155 billion
in employee donations 
matched by Corning$1.3mof management/professionals 
globally are women31%
>$3.4mEnvironment
Social
Governance3 newscenario-based climate risk 
assessment completed1st
formal
95+% compliance rate2021 Sustainability Highlights
2021 Sustainability Highlights 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 6 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Who We Are and What We Do
 
 
 
Corning is vital to progress – in the industries we serve and in 
the world we share.  We invent life-changing technologies using 
materials science. Our scientific and manufacturing expertise, 
boundless curiosity, and commitment to purposeful invention 
place us at the center of the way the world interacts, works, learns, 
and lives.  Our sustained investment in research, development, 
and invention means we’re always ready to solve the toughest 
challenges alongside our customers.  
IN THIS SECTION:
 Corning is Vital to Progress 
 Corning at a Glance
 Our Values Define Us
Who We Are and What We Do 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 7 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Ranked #1 on 
Fast Company’s 
list of Most 
Innovative 
Companies   
in Mobile Consumer Electronics, 
in part for the invention of the 
world’s first highly transparent,  
color-free glass ceramic.F our-time 
National Medal 
of T echnology 
winner   
thanks to our technology 
leadership and R&D 
environment, which attract 
and develop the best scientific 
minds in the world. 
Core 
T echnologies
Glass Science
Ceramic Science
Optical Physics
Vapor Deposition
Fusion
Precision Forming
Extrusion
Optical Communications
Mobile Consumer 
Electronics
Display
Automotive
Life SciencesManufacturing &
Engineering 
Platforms
Market-Access
Platforms5 4 3 Who We Are and What We Do
CORNING IS VIT AL TO PROGRESS —  
in the industries we serve and in the world we share.  
At Corning, we invent life-changing technologies using materials science. 
Our scientific and manufacturing expertise, boundless curiosity, and 
commitment to purposeful invention place us at the center of the way the 
world interacts, works, learns, and lives. Our sustained investment in research, 
development, and invention means we’re always ready to solve the toughest 
challenges alongside our customers.
Corning’s businesses are ever evolving to best serve our customers, 
industries, and consumers. T oday, we serve life sciences, mobile consumer 
electronics, optical communications, display, and automotive markets. 
Within these areas, we focus on leading in three core technologies and 
four manufacturing and engineering platforms to help solve some of 
our stakeholders’ most pressing challenges and accelerate industry 
transformations. T o learn more, visit our website .
Our Scientists Are at the F orefront of Innovating Things that Matter
At Corning, invention is at the center of everything we do. We succeed 
through sustained investment in research, development, and engineering, 
a unique combination of material and process innovation, and close 
collaboration with customers to solve tough technology challenges. Our 
inventions make a lasting impact. Our products clean the air we breathe, 
connect people to information and each other, provide the window through 
which we access information and entertainment, and help facilitate the 
discovery and delivery of vital medicines. BEST-IN-THE-WORLD 
CAP ABILITIES
© Christopher Payne / Esto
Who We Are and What We Do 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 8 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Quality
T otal Quality is the guiding principle of Corning's business life. It  
requires each of us, individually and in teams, to understand,  
anticipate, and surpass the expectations of our customers. T otal  
Quality demands continuous improvement in all our processes, 
products, and services. Our success depends on our ability to learn 
from experience, to embrace change, and to achieve the  
full involvement of all our employees.
Integrity
Integrity is the foundation of Corning's reputation. We have earned 
the respect and trust of people around the world through more than a 
century of behavior that is honest, decent, and fair. Such behavior must 
continue to characterize all our relationships, both inside and outside 
the Corning network.
Performance
Providing Corning shareholders a superior long-term return on their 
investment is a business imperative. This requires that we allocate our 
resources to ensure profitable growth, maintain an effective balance 
between today and tomorrow, deliver what we promise, and tie our own 
rewards directly to our performance.
Leadership
Corning is a leader, not a follower. Our history and our culture impel us 
to seek a leadership role in our markets, our multiple technologies, our 
manufacturing processes, our management practices, and our financial 
performance. The goods and services we produce are never merely 
ordinary and must always be truly useful.Innovation
Corning leads primarily by technical innovation and shares a deep 
belief in the power of technology. The company has a history of great 
contributions in science and technology, and it is this same spirit 
of innovation that has enabled us to create new products and new 
markets, to introduce new forms of corporate organization, and to seek 
new levels of employee participation. We embrace the opportunities 
inherent in change, and we are confident in our ability to help shape  
the future.
Independence
Corning cherishes — and will defend — its corporate freedom. That 
independence is our historic foundation. It fosters the innovation and 
initiative that has made our company great, and will continue to provide 
inspiration and energy to all parts of our network in the future.
The Individual
We know that in the end the commitment and contribution of all 
our employees will determine our success. Corning believes in the 
fundamental dignity of the individual. Our network consists of a rich 
mixture of people of diverse nationality, race, gender, and opinion, 
and this diversity will continue to be a source of our strength. We value 
the unique ability of each individual to contribute, and we intend that 
every employee shall have the opportunity to participate fully, to grow 
professionally, and to develop to their highest potential.CORNING A T A GLANCE* 
OUR V ALUES DEFINE USHow we do things is just as important as what we accomplish.  
Our core Values  are the foundation of who we are and guide our 
actions and decisions — wherever we are, whatever we do.*Numbers current as of Dec. 31, 2021; financial figures in USDHQ: Corning, New Y ork Active Patents: 11,750+
Employees: 61,200 Manufacturing Facilities: 77
Operating Locations: 148
Global Presence: 44 countries Core Sales: $14.1 billion
R&D Centers: 10Core EPS: $2.07
R&D Investment: $1 billionNYSE: GLW 
© Christopher Payne / Esto
Who We Are and What We Do 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 9 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Photo courtesy of Corning  
employee Y ong Zhao
Success Depends on  
Support from our Stakeholders
IN THIS SECTION:
 Corning’s Stakeholders  
 How We Create Shared Success with our StakeholdersT o continue Corning’s sustained ability to innovate as our primary 
source of value creation, we require mutual support and success 
among our people, partners, communities, investors, society, and 
future stakeholders. Corning’s commitment to our stakeholders is 
ongoing and fundamental to who we are and what we do. When we 
succeed, our stakeholders succeed.
Success Depends on Support from our Stakeholders 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 10 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Success Depends on Support 
from our Stakeholders
CORNING'S ST AKEHOLDERS
Few companies have a time‑ tested track record of scientific research and innovation that is vital to improving lives and 
making a real difference in the world. Corning is one of those companies. We’ve thrived for 170 years by continually 
finding new ways to help move the world forward.
This approach started in our earliest days, when our 
company’s founders committed to scientific innovation in 
glassmaking. Their philosophy was to let other companies 
stamp out drinking glasses, bottles, and plate glass 
windows. Our people would focus on transformative 
technology, such as developing a reliable railroad signal that 
could significantly reduce fatalities by eliminating a primary 
cause of train accidents, or creating the heat-resistant glass 
sleeve for Thomas Edison’s light bulb — and the process 
that would help bring electric light into every home. 
Our contributions across three centuries speak  
for themselves: 
• Our PYREX® petri dishes  enabled the development 
of penicillin, and our Corning glass jars enabled Jonas 
Salk to produce the polio vaccine. T oday, our technology 
is helping scientists tap into the power of cell therapy 
to cure disease. And our revolutionary pharmaceutical 
packaging portfolio has enabled the delivery of almost 5 
billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines. 
•  Corning has supplied the windows for every manned 
U.S. spacecraft since NASA first orbited the earth in 
1962.  And building on our involvement with the Hubble 
Space T elescope and New Horizons Pluto Probe, we 
played a major role in the recently launched  
James Webb Space T elescope.• We’ve driven a series of advancements in emissions- 
control solutions , starting with our invention of 
the ceramic substrates used in catalytic converters, 
which have prevented more than 4 billion tons of 
hydrocarbons, 4 billion tons of nitrogen oxides, and  
40 billion tons of carbon monoxide from entering  
the atmosphere. 
•  We invented a process to mass produce TV picture 
tubes,  helping make televisions find their way into 
millions of homes as the technology became affordable. 
And we built on that innovation with the advent of LCD 
TVs — our leadership in pristine and durable glass has 
driven widespread adoption of large‑size high‑ definition 
flat‑screen TVs.
•  Our technical glass has enabled the development 
and advancement of the tablets, laptops, 
smartphones, and wearables that have become 
ubiquitous in our daily lives — all powered by  
our invention of low‑loss optical fiber, a technology  
that has revolutionized communication and 
entertainment by moving data at the  
speed of light. Our
People
Our
Partners
Direct Nature of link between our actions and stakeholder impact EnabledOur
Communities
Our
InvestorsSociety
Future
Stakeholders
Success Depends on Support from our Stakeholders 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 11
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022T oday, in a world where technology underpins every facet 
of human life, we've positioned ourselves at the center 
of major industry transformations. We’re helping build a 
world of communication and connection — where infinite 
and ubiquitous bandwidth facilitates real-time information 
and on-demand connections; a world where people can 
do more from their mobile device in the palms of their 
hands or even on their wrists; a world in which large, lifelike 
displays provide the window through which we access 
entertainment; a world where cars are autonomous, 
connected, and increasingly green; and a world in which we 
help facilitate the discovery and delivery of new medicines 
that are individualized, effective, and safe. 
In total, these contributions reflect our mission: delivering 
inventions that provide value to society. Central to that 
mission are the positive, symbiotic relationships we 
maintain with a diverse set of stakeholder groups. We 
know our success is about more than what happens within 
our four walls; to extend Corning’s sustained ability to 
innovate as our primary source of value creation, we require 
mutual support and success among our people, partners, 
communities, investors, society, and future stakeholders. 
In addition to simply being the right thing to do, it makes 
logical sense that we work to provide value for all our 
stakeholder groups.
Our deep commitment to each group has manifested in 
many forms over time. The nature of the link between our 
actions and their impact on stakeholders is illustrated in the 
graphic on the previous page. The largest impact we have 
on the world is enabled by our technology   — our inventions 
help deliver benefits to an overwhelming percentage of the 
global population through our products. At the same time, 
we make a more direct positive impact in many ways. This 
applies to those we interact with regularly in the course of 
business. For example, we want our employees to join us 
for life, so we offer opportunities to enrich their careers 
throughout their time with us. We also want them to 
benefit from our vibrant communities, so we take an active 
Our People:  The commitment and contributions of our employees are central to our 
ability to create value. Advancing our leadership in and capturing synergies among 
our core technologies and proprietary manufacturing platforms requires deep insight 
and experience uniquely derived through apprenticeship at Corning. Consequently, 
developing and protecting our workforce is a top priority. We value the unique 
contributions of each individual. Our employee base consists of diverse nationalities, 
races, genders, and opinions. We ensure that all employees earn a living wage, and we 
offer comprehensive career development, combined with competitive compensation 
and benefits. We intend that every employee has the opportunity to participate fully 
and develop to their highest potential. role wherever we live and work. This not only supports our 
long-term effort, helping us retain great talent, but also 
encourages their children to remain in the community and 
join us as well. 
Historical examples demonstrate the nature of our 
linkages, magnitude of our impact, and longevity of our 
commitment. Half a century ago, we began recruiting 
from Historically Black Colleges and Universities as well 
as building a pipeline of underrepresented students in 
engineering and technology fields. Forty years ago, we 
adopted a T otal Quality program to drive error-free results 
that meet customer requirements 100% of the time. At 
the same time, we commissioned Black Progress and 
Women’s Issues Corrective Actions teams and appointed 
our first cultural diversity director. And we established 
employee resource groups, starting with the Society of 
Black Professionals, and building from there to support 
our employees who are women, Hispanic, LGBTQ+, Native 
American, Asian, and veterans, as well as people with 
disabilities. Finally, we’ve maintained a long‑standing role in 
our communities, which is perhaps most clearly evidenced 
by our many facilities that have manufactured vastly 
different products over time — while employing multiple 
generations of people from the same area.
In all our actions, we seek to make it clear that Corning’s 
commitment to our six stakeholder groups is ongoing and 
fundamental to who we are and what we do. That’s why 
our sustainability journey does not have an endpoint. As 
we work to become better versions of ourselves, we’re 
measuring our progress against the long-term value we 
deliver to all of these groups.
Our  
PeopleWe know that when we succeed, our stakeholders 
succeed. Corning advances and grows when 
our stakeholders thrive. And right now, we're 
especially excited about the many ways our 
innovations and investments will benefit  
future generations.
HOW WE CREA TE SHARED SUCCESS WITH OUR ST AKEHOLDERS
Success Depends on Support from our Stakeholders 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 12 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Society:  Corning’s greatest potential for improving lives is tied to our products and 
innovations. We apply our core technologies and proprietary manufacturing and 
engineering platforms to help solve some of society’s most pressing challenges, and 
our positive impact has been demonstrated across three centuries. Our success stems 
from an aspiration to moving the world forward in everything we do. And that extends 
to the implications of our actions, including respecting and protecting human rights, 
supporting racial justice activities, bolstering communities, improving the environment, 
and protecting our employees.Our Investors:  We’re maintaining an effective value‑ creation strategy, which is 
driven by our strong stewardship and leadership position in three highly relevant 
core technical capabilities and four proprietary manufacturing and engineering 
platforms. As we find new synergies among them, we unlock disruptive innovations, 
creating vibrant franchises that generate strong cash flow, outperform competitors 
in sales and profits, and lead industries for decades. In turn, we utilize our strong cash 
generation to invest in ongoing growth, extend our leadership, and return cash to 
shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Future Stakeholders:  At Corning, we’re working every day to maximize our 
positive long-term impact on the world — through our life-changing products and 
stakeholder-oriented initiatives — while working to eradicate any potential negative 
impact on a range of areas from the environment to our supply chains. Importantly, 
Corning stands out among peers and large companies for the percentage of revenue 
we dedicate toward the future. This approach is inherent in our goal of providing 
lasting and long‑ term value to society. We’re investing today in technology, capital 
projects, and sustainability initiatives designed to benefit our next generation of 
employees, customers, shareholders, and community members.SocietyOur  
Investors
Future  
StakeholdersOur Communities:  Support begins with strong wage and benefit packages that 
help many families in each of our communities. In addition, we employ philanthropy, 
volunteerism, and investments to boost economies, help businesses thrive, and 
ensure rich cultural and educational opportunities for all residents — wherever we 
operate. For example, the Corning Museum of Glass supports tourism and jobs 
while growing enthusiasm for glass and supporting intellectual, artistic, and scientific 
collisions that move our field forward. And regional campaigns connect Corning and 
our communities through volunteerism. For example, during our week of service in 
EMEA, Turkish employees rebuilt a kindergarten class, employees in Berlin worked 
with a nonprofit to upgrade a safe space for children, and a team in Poland held a 
virtual auction to raise funds for people in need.Our Partners:  Corning is committed to strategic, integrated, and socially responsible 
relationships with our customers, suppliers, and commercial partners. We have 
positioned ourselves to play a vital role in our customers' value creation. We help 
them advance important industry transformations that move the world forward, 
made possible by our deep understanding of their needs, combined with the 
relevance of our leadership capabilities.
Our  
CommunitiesOur  
Partners
Success Depends on Support from our Stakeholders 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 13
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Delivering Value Through our  
Products and T echnologies
Corning has a long history of life-changing inventions — from the 
glass sleeve for Thomas Edison's light bulb to the world's first 
low‑loss optical fiber to the advanced vials that support COVID ‑19 
vaccines worldwide. T oday, our products clean the air we breathe, 
connect people to information and each other, provide a window 
to news and entertainment, and support the discovery and 
delivery of medicines.
IN THIS SECTION:
 COVID-19 and Beyond  
 Helping the World Breathe Easier
 Bridging the Connectivity Gap
 Driving T oward a New Automotive Future   
 Climate Action Through Innovation  
© Christopher Payne / Esto
Delivering Value 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 14 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Image TBD"We’re at an inflection point 
in the COVID-19 response. 
At this critical moment, 
every vaccination counts, 
which means every vial we 
deliver counts.” 
– Ron Verkleeren   
 Corning’s Senior Vice President  
 and General Manager,  
 Life Sciences,  
 March 2021
Delivering Value  
Through our Products  
and T echnologies 
COVID-19 AND BEYOND 
Helping Speed Delivery of COVID-19 Vaccines 
At Corning, we invent life-changing technologies using materials science. With 
our portfolio of drug-packaging products, we are expanding the vital role 
Corning plays in supporting critical health care demand globally. 
In 2021, Corning accelerated its advanced glass vial production capacity to 
support pharmaceutical manufacturers working to deliver hundreds of millions 
of doses of potentially lifesaving vaccines. This included the introduction of 
Corning Velocity® Vials , an externally coated vial that can help drugmakers 
accelerate the manufacturing of COVID-19 vaccines to help meet global 
demand. The vial’s patented coating can improve filling line efficiency by 20% 
to 50%, which can lead to lower pharmaceutical production costs. Compared 
with conventional vials, Velocity Vials resist damage that can lead to particle 
generation, cracks, and breaks. 
 Velocity Vials can help eliminate bottlenecks and speed delivery of 
lifesaving treatments at a broadly accessible price point. They aid in 
delivering a fast regulatory approval process for post-market drugs  
and product benefits that can deliver better economics, better quality, 
and better sustainability.
 In 2021, Velocity Vials, together with Corning Valor® Glass vials and 
pharmaceutical glass tubing, helped enable the delivery of nearly  
5 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines.  
Beyond COVID-19 
We are working with West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc ., a global leader 
in innovative solutions for injectable drug administration, as part of an 
exclusive supply and technology collaboration. Working together, we aim 
to expand Corning Valor® Glass technology to enable advanced injectable-
drug packaging and delivery systems for the pharmaceutical industry. 
Researchers are using our:
• Research consumables, such as our Matrigel® and 3D cell culture products,  
in labs for collection, preservation, and analysis of samples for diagnosis and 
the development of treatments and vaccines. 
• Bioproduction products, such as our HYPERStack® and Erlenmeyer flasks,  
to produce and test promising new treatments. 
Delivering Value 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 15 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022"It was a privilege to support the ambitious efforts of  
our many partners and build the business case for 
driving connectivity in remote areas through shared 
infrastructure; with ample opportunities to replicate this 
model in other locations, it could have a big part to play in 
democratizing the global digital revolution.” In 1970, our breakthrough 
discoveries in optical 
fiber helped unleash 
a communications 
revolution that continues 
to change the world. 
Corning’s invention 
of low-loss optical 
fiber has allowed for 
high bandwidth, long 
reach and lower-
power communications 
infrastructure, enabling 
the internet as we  
know it today.HELPING THE WORLD BREA THE EASIER 
In 2021, the World Health Organization tightened its Air Quality Guidelines for the first time in more than 15 years, 
highlighting the environmental and health risks associated with even low levels of exposure to fine particulate matter 
like PM2.5. High‑performance gasoline engines that meet the fuel economy and efficiency needs of today’s drivers 
also produce higher levels of these fine particulate emissions. Building on decades of experience in particulate filtration 
for diesel vehicle exhaust, Corning first introduced gasoline particulate filters in 2016 to reduce fine particulate matter 
emissions from gasoline engines. A recently released new generation of these filters enables automakers to further 
reduce gasoline and hybrid vehicles’ particulate tailpipe emissions under almost all driving conditions as regulatory 
limits continue to tighten. Corning’s ceramic filters trap fine particulates on the microscopic, engineered porous 
walls as engine exhaust flows through the filter. Depending on the particulate matter levels in some communities, 
filtered gasoline exhaust can be cleaner than the ambient air. 
Corning is also a leading supplier of ceramic substrates for emissions control. Since their introduction in 
1973, Corning’s ceramic substrates have prevented more than 4 billion tons of hydrocarbons, 4 billion 
tons of nitrogen oxides, and 40 billion tons of carbon monoxide from entering the atmosphere.
In Uganda, electricity demand 
has been growing at an average 
of 10% per year, but the supply 
remains constrained as a mere 7% 
of rural Ugandan communities are 
connected to the electricity grid 
and able to access information and 
communication technologies (ICT). 
For schools and health clinics in rural 
areas, reliable electricity and internet 
connectivity are especially critical.
In a project with the development 
agency GIZ, the Rural Electrification 
Agency, and ADV A Optical 
Networking SE, Corning helped to 
bring electricity and fiber to the 
remote village of Buheesi in western 
Uganda. The project was part of a 
pilot to help explore solutions for 
Uganda's long-standing energy and 
connectivity access challenges. The 
proposed solution was the rollout 
of electricity distribution lines and 
fiber optic cable, creating a virtuous 
circle enabled by aerial cabling and 
employing an ICT ecosystem.Corning provided 72‑ fiber aerial 
cable for the project, as well as inline 
closures, terminal closures, and small 
wall terminals for termination inside 
the buildings. For the pilot, aerial 
fiber optic installation offered an 
important alternative to traditional 
underground installation methods 
and allowed for the fast and cost-
effective deployment of fiber ‑to‑
the-home connections. Corning 
technicians also provided training on 
how to install and manage the fiber 
to ensure long-term reliability.
T oday, thanks to the project, the 
village is connected, and the pilot 
has demonstrated proof of concept 
for expansions of rural infrastructure 
networks across the country. In and 
beyond Africa, deployment of aerial 
cables will be essential in reaching 
remote and rural areas.BRIDGING THE CONNECTIVITY GAP 
– Werner Smit   
    T echnical Sales Manager, Corning Optical Communications 
Delivering Value 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 16 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022The most innovative automakers 
are focusing design differentiation 
on displays with next-level 
improvements: from simple to 
interactive, small to large, low to 
high resolution, and flat to curved. 
Precision cover glass for displays is 
increasingly a material of choice as 
it maintains tactile feel, enhanced 
touch sensitivity, and beautiful 
aesthetics consumers have come to 
know and expect from their handheld 
devices. Corning’s flexible glass 
and patented Corning® ColdForm™ 
T echnology are helping automakers 
achieve design objectives and meet 
sustainability targets within their 
supply chains.
*Assumptions for the comparative analysis of the hot form process assume similar geographical region and were collected through 
expertise from in-house hot forming for other types of automotive glass, industry research, expert opinions, and third-party evaluations. 
Models for the hot form process are representative of theoretical data. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to account for the potential 
variances in environmental impact that could occur based on the collection of primary data for the hot form process.Corning recognizes that design 
differentiation doesn’t just have an 
impact on price and materials, but 
also on the environment. T o measure 
this impact, Corning worked with 
a leading independent third party 
to conduct a life-cycle assessment 
(LCA) on ColdForm™ T echnology. 
An LCA measures environmental 
impacts from the manufacture and 
use of a product, such as emissions 
released and waste created. An  
LCA looks at each stage of the 
product’s life: raw materials 
extraction and processing 
(the supply chain), material 
transportation, manufacturing, 
transport to the customer, assembly/
installation, use, and disposal. Every 
product has an impact and each life-
cycle stage can contribute.
The assessment found that 
ColdForm™ T echnology’s global 
warming potential is about 25% 
less than traditional hot-forming 
technology.* Because forming 
doesn’t happen until the last step 
before assembly with a display and 
structural components, processing 
is materials-, space-, and energy-
efficient; this efficiency leads to 
better performance at the plant.DRIVING TOWARD A NEW AUTOMOTIVE FUTURE
33,800,000  miles driven in a passenger car
222,500  tree seedlings grown for 10 years
1,630,000,000  smartphones chargedGlobal warming potential relates directly to 
carbon footprint. Using the EPA’s greenhouse gas 
equivalencies calculator, the difference between 
the carbon footprint of 1 million square feet of glass 
using Corning® ColdForm™ T echnology vs. traditional 
hot-forming methods equates to:Traditionally, shaping glass is done 
by hot forming, meaning additional 
energy is used to reheat the glass 
and mold or form it into its final 
shape. By contrast, Corning’s 
patented ColdForm™ T echnology 
uses optimized processes to bend 
and hold glass into its final shape 
at room temperature at the end 
of the module-assembly process. 
This proprietary process ensures 
each step in manufacturing — 
from chemical strengthening, 
to application of decoration and 
optical coatings, and, finally, to 
shipping — is all done with flat 
pieces of glass versus shaped 
glass, which effectively reduces 
cost and energy spend. By 
completing the manufacturing 
process in its flat state, Corning’s 
finished glass part improves yields, 
reducing customers’ waste and 
material footprints.
Delivering Value 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 17 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Corning is taking climate action 
by setting goals to lower our 
greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions, 
increase our use of renewable 
electricity, and engage our partners 
in lowering the embodied carbon in 
the products they supply us. 
But our most powerful contributions 
to climate action will come from our 
innovation portfolio. 
Even as our subsidiary Hemlock 
Semiconductor Operations (HSC) 
produces more for today's c-Si 
solar cells, Corning is working with a 
partner in the development stages 
of using flexible glass as a substrate 
for next-generation solar, enabling 
We are leveraging our expertise in inorganic materials chemistry and processing to develop ceramic  
ribbons that are less than a tenth of a millimeter thick and arbitrarily long. Applications could include: 
Solid-state lithium 
batteries, which offer 
higher capacities and 
greater safety compared 
with today’s battery 
technology.Electrolysis cells 
for green hydrogen 
production, which can 
significantly reduce 
global carbon emissions. Fusion reactors, where 
high-temperature 
superconductors are 
critical for plasma 
containment, which 
could provide essentially 
limitless energy to 
combat climate change. roll-to-roll solar cell printing, higher 
efficiencies, and lower costs. We 
are also exploring next-generation 
cover glass for solar modules, with 
the potential to reduce weight and 
increase light transmission and 
therefore module efficiency.
Solar electricity alone will not solve 
climate change; Corning is working 
on technologies to enable many 
of the new products the world will 
need to reduce global GHGs. Our 
thin, lightweight window glass can 
reduce energy waste through better 
insulation. New technology based on 
LCD TVs may lead to instantaneously 
darkening windows that reduce 
HV AC load. Ribbon ceramic materials and polysilicon from Hemlock may 
enable higher density clean energy 
storage through batteries, carbon-
free fuel, or even completely new 
forms of energy generation (see box 
below). Our expertise in extrusion 
and ceramics is being leveraged by 
a partner to directly capture carbon 
dioxide from the atmosphere.
Whether due to these materials 
or others that Corning scientists 
develop, we believe our innovations 
aimed at climate action have the 
power to both drive our growth and 
reduce global GHG emissions by 
many times more than just erasing 
our total footprint.CLIMA TE ACTION THROUGH INNOV A TION 
Delivering Value 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 18 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Corning headquarters building
Corning, New Y ork
Sustainability at Corning
At Corning, our approach to sustainability is grounded in our 
focus on the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) topics 
that matter most to our business and to our stakeholders. We 
have integrated sustainability into our value-creation model and 
embedded it into how we implement our strategic priorities across 
the enterprise.
IN THIS SECTION:
 A Discussion with Our Vice President of Sustainability  
 and Climate Initiatives 
 Sustainability Goals and Progress
 Sustainability Governance  
Sustainability at Corning 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 19 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Sustainability at Corning
A DISCUSSION WITH OUR VICE PRESIDENT OF  
SUST AINABILITY AND CLIMA TE INITIA TIVES 
MS: Sustainability means balancing the ways we 
serve our stakeholders so they continue to enable, 
and benefit from, our success. As we’ve described in 
this report, we have six categories of stakeholders: our 
people, partners, communities, investors, society, and 
future stakeholders. Each group contributes a part 
of what we need to invent, make, and sell our life-
changing products. In turn, we give back the benefits 
of our actions to those same groups. Sustainability 
for us means making that exchange in ways that allow 
more and more people to participate in enabling, and 
enjoying, a cleaner and safer world made possible by 
glass. 
When I reflect on Corning’s sustainability practice over 
the last 17 decades, it inspires me to remember that 
hundreds of thousands of people have contributed 
directly and billions of people have benefitted — 
accomplishments that not many companies can 
match. Many factories we’ve built have housed jobs 
in communities for multiple generations, even as the 
products made in them have changed entirely. We 
have decades-long relationships with customers. Our 
investors have changed from a small group, mostly in 
one family, who held their shares for over a century, 
to millions of people participating through large 
institutional funds. And our products have served 
society through waves and waves of new technology. 
Railroad signal lanterns, large optical telescopes, 
fiberglass, cookware, tube TVs, and photosensitive 
glass for printing presses were all cutting-edge 
advances in their time — and we helped make them 
possible.  
While the number of people enabling and enjoying the 
benefits of our work has grown dramatically over the 
years, we can do more and we can do better. All of our 
stakeholders will benefit as we increase the diversity of 
our people and partners. Our communities will improve 
as we encourage and reward our employees more for 
their volunteer efforts. Our investors will appreciate 
our increased clarity about our sustainability efforts. 
Our society and future stakeholders look to us to 
reduce the water we use and the greenhouse gas we 
emit — and to create innovations that help stop, and 
even reverse, climate change. Improving on all of these 
dimensions and more is the sustainability work we have 
to do now. Q:  What does sustainability mean to you?Sustainability at Corning means our stakeholders working together to ensure 
they all receive the benefits of another 170 years of our innovations. It’s a definition 
that encompasses — but is less familiar and more durable than — those items we 
all tend to group under “environmental, social, and governance” in today’s common 
parlance. Our definition highlights the fact that we serve the future as well as the present. 
It reminds us that we have demonstrably successful practices to guide us. It also charges 
us with the reality that sustainability requires constant work. And we have been working. We 
have enhanced our climate change goals and increased our capacity to address sustainability 
issues across the company. Our customers see our commitment and are increasingly asking 
to partner with us to solve their own sustainability challenges. We now have dedicated 
sustainability leads in each of the Market-Access Platforms under which we organize our 
company’s operations, creating greater alignment across our businesses and functions. 
We have established a Center of Excellence focused on setting and attaining future 
sustainability goals. We also actively engage our entire leadership team, beginning with our 
CEO, to challenge assumptions and provide oversight on our performance. We are able to 
identify emerging opportunities, empower our people to drive progress, and achieve results 
more quickly. Our commitment to sustainability at Corning has never been stronger and I am 
excited both by the progress we’ve made and the progress I see coming.
– Mark Steen, Ph.D.   
   Vice President of Sustainability and Climate Initiatives
Sustainability at Corning 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 20 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Photo courtesy of Corning  
employee Hung‑I Chao
MS: Relative to business priorities, I’d say our 
engagements with customers are becoming 
significantly more focused on sustainability topics. 
Many of our closest partners have begun to recognize 
the opportunities for co-innovation and improving our 
combined impact. We are finding ways to reduce the 
embodied carbon in our current products, expanding 
our efforts to design new products with sustainability in 
mind from the start, and unleashing our most powerful 
tools — our research, development & engineering 
capabilities — to invent whole new categories of 
materials to solve issues like connecting underserved 
populations and reducing atmospheric greenhouse 
gases. Working to innovate with our suppliers and 
customers is certainly the broadest-reaching measure 
we have to enhance global sustainability on both the 
environmental and social side.
As for day-to-day operations, sustainability awareness, 
good governance, and empowered action are 
increasing at all levels of the company. Corning’s Board 
of Directors has revised our Social Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee charter to clearly define the 
Board’s responsibilities and increased oversight on  
policies, trends, and risks impacting our environmental 
sustainability initiatives. They are challenging us to,  
among other things, constantly find ways to improve 
safety, accelerate our progress on DE&I, reduce energy 
and natural resource consumption, and minimize waste 
across our operations. We have some work to do here 
— our water and waste measurements are not where we 
want them to be, for instance — but we believe we will 
make meaningful progress this year. We also appointed 
dedicated sustainability leads in each of our Market-
Access Platforms to create greater alignment across 
the enterprise. Our people are also expressing their 
heightened interest in sustainability. So in 2021, a group 
came together to form the Corning Sustainability 
Network, a grassroots effort to raise awareness of the 
company’s sustainability work among our people as 
well as to develop paths for employees to add their 
energy to that work in both less and more formal ways. 
It’s a fledgling effort and we’ll see where it goes, but 
I’m excited that our people are proactive in expressing 
their passion about sustainability.Q:  How is Corning strengthening the integration of sustainability  
             into its business priorities and day-to-day operations?
Sustainability at Corning 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 21 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022MS: Two related things: our explicit recognition  
of future stakeholders and the potential of our 
innovation portfolio.
Some people are confused that we list “future 
stakeholders” among our other, more commonly 
encountered, stakeholder groups. I understand why 
it seems odd — but it is very Corning. For years, our 
actions have demonstrated our deep commitment and 
dedication to taking the long view, whether through 
investing nearly twice as much as our peers in R&D or 
HR policies that encourage, and achieve, long careers 
with Corning, or myriad other ways. For example, 
we make significant investments in STEM education 
programs in our communities to ensure we have a 
strong pipeline of future scientists, inventors, and 
engineers who want to make meaningful change on 
the world through their work. Some of those trade-
offs mean that we take less today to ensure we can 
provide more for our stakeholders tomorrow. That may 
seem like common sense — I suppose it is — but in the 
real world of immediate demands and rapid decision 
making, it’s easy to shortchange the power and 
potential of the future. So, I’m glad we have the clear 
reminder that the future must be considered.
The second thing I’ll emphasize is our innovation 
portfolio — we have innovated to improve the world for 
a long time. I mentioned the railroad signal lamp lenses 
we used to make in the 1800s. What was innovative 
about them was that they didn’t break when they 
were hot and got hit by cold rain or snow. Signal lamps 
were especially important when operators couldn’t 
see well, like during rain and snowstorms, so that was 
an important safety innovation for a major form of 
transportation at the time. And we have made it a 
practice to innovate in anticipation of opportunity in 
emerging industries, rather than only investing when 
the need is clearer and the payoff is more assured.  
We started learning to manufacture fiber before there 
was a single customer and then supported the first 
telecom carrier willing to take the risk of building an 
entirely new, nationwide telephone network. No one 
imagined then the need for fiber to enable 5G wireless 
networks and 10G broadband access — as we seek to 
expand connectivity for remote learning and telework. 
We are purposeful in our approach to innovation — 
and that same sense of purpose extends to any other 
problem or challenge we tackle. While we don’t have 
all the answers to environmental sustainability, for 
instance, our teams of scientists and engineers are 
working every day to understand how to solve for 
them, such as getting to net zero. 
Despite our long history, it’s hard to imagine we’ve 
ever had as many exciting potential innovations 
as we do today. On a daily basis, I hear about and 
get to contribute to work we’re doing to improve 
clean energy, battery storage, clean fuels, negative 
emissions, rural connectivity, and more. That’s a 
great part about being Corning: We get to work on 
products that improve sustainability not just for our 
own company, but for the world. We, like everyone, 
must constantly improve the sustainability of our own 
actions — whether through equitable pay, community 
involvement, well‑paid jobs, or lower ‑GHG processes. 
But we also get to do what so few other companies 
can: make products that actually move  
the sustainability needle for society. Innovation  
is hard, and not all of these ideas are going to  
work, but it’s thrilling to be a part of  
the effort.
Stay tuned. I think sustainability at  
Corning is going to be exciting  
both within our walls and well  
beyond them. 
"That’s a great part about being Corning: 
We get to work on products that improve 
sustainability not just for our own 
company, but for the world."
- Mark Steen, Ph.D.  
 Vice President of Sustainability and  
 Climate Initiatives
Q:  What do you most want to emphasize about sustainability at Corning?
Sustainability at Corning 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 22 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Sustainability Goals1Material Issues 2021 Progress 
1Increase our use of renewable 
energy by 400% by 2030 
from a 2018 baselineEnergy Management 
7913Began operations at three new community solar projects 
Began operation of new off-site solar array enabled by our  
long-term power purchase agreement in T onawanda, New Y ork
Created a more streamlined approval process to expedite  
decision-making and enhance our ability to invest in the most 
favorable renewable-energy opportunities 
Began planning for a large-scale renewable-energy project, which 
we expect to begin in 2022 
2Enhance water strategies 
across Corning sites by 2025, 
prioritizing manufacturing 
plants and communities 
in high-risk, water-scarce 
regionsWater Conservation 
612Water footprint pilot project led to discovery of storm-water 
reuse opportunities at two optical fiber manufacturing facilities 
located in water-stressed regions, with potential water reduction 
opportunities of 60-80% 
Supported a Tainan water-recirculation project, with potential 
impact of ~25% water savings 
3Enhance waste strategies 
across Corning sites by 2025, 
prioritizing manufacturing 
plantsWaste Management 
12Partnered with New Y ork State Pollution Prevention Institute to 
develop a corporate-level waste-reduction program
Continued to develop a sustainability plan for implementing a 
corporate- level waste‑reduction program tailored to Corning’s 
business structure, providing guidance on creating a consistent 
approach to reducing the waste generated by Corning’s operations 
and increasing other diversion pathways, such as recycling and 
beneficial use
Retained consulting services provided by New Y ork State Pollution 
Prevention Institute; began using UL 2799 standard 
4Certify 100% of our high-
risk suppliers and contract 
manufacturers as socially 
responsible by 2025Sustainable Supply  
Chain 
8121765.2% of spend with high‑risk suppliers certified as 
socially responsible
5Continue to maintain our 
safety metrics in the top 
quartile of our industry 
benchmark valuesOccupational Health  
and Safety  
8Achieved top-quartile performance based on a 2020  
industry benchmark*
*2021 industry benchmark will be available after publication of Corning's 2021 
Sustainability Report
SUST AINABILITY GOALS AND PROGRESS 
Our approach to sustainability is grounded in our focus on the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) topics that 
matter most to our business and to our stakeholders, as reflected in our 12 sustainability goals listed in the table below. 
These goals address priority issues where we believe Corning can achieve the greatest environmental and social impact, 
while supporting the long-term growth of our business. They are not only the right things to do, but are also the smart 
things to do to make Corning more resilient amid future risks and to help us continue to develop breakthrough inventions 
for our customers and the world. For that reason, the sustainability goals are formalized in our internal  
Operating Priorities. 
We have also aligned our goals with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Given the scale of progress needed 
to address these global challenges, we will continually reevaluate ESG issues most important to our stakeholders, noted 
on pages 25 and 26 , and to our business, and will update our goals and strategy accordingly. 
Sustainability at Corning 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 23 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Sustainability Goals1Material Issues 2021 Progress 
6Encourage increased 
volunteerism efforts year over 
year by supporting, rewarding, 
and recognizing employees’ 
efforts in the communityCommunity Involvement 
and Partnerships
11The Corning Incorporated Foundation provided more than 240 
Sustainable Development Goal-related grants totaling more than 
$3.4 million 
Matched $1.3 million in employee donations to charitable 
organizations
More than 375 participants logged 15,383 volunteer hours in 2021
7Maintain a diverse  
Board of DirectorsCorporate Governance 
and Risk Management 
1227% of Corning’s Board of Directors identify as women;  
20% of our Board of Directors identify as ethnically diverse
8Conduct an annual review of 
the sustainability program 
by the Board of Directors 
Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability CommitteeCorporate Governance 
and Risk Management 
12Completed annual sustainability program review in April 2021
9Address environmental, social, 
and governance issues in our 
Enterprise Risk Management 
ProcessCorporate Governance 
and Risk Management 
12Completed the first formal scenario ‑based climate risk  
assessment and published the first Taskforce on Climate‑related 
Financial Disclosure 
10Achieve understanding of the 
Corning Code of Conduct, 
including how to report 
allegations of ethical or legal 
misconduct, among 100% of 
employeesEthical Business 
Practices
8 In our 2021 Voice to Action Workplace Culture Survey: 
 •95% of employees responding globally said they understood 
Corning’s Code of Conduct
 • 82% of employees responding globally said they knew how to 
report violations of Corning’s Code of Conduct
11Issue a sustainability report in 
2021 and every year thereafterTransparency and 
Reporting 
12The 2021 Sustainability Report is our second annual sustainability 
report; published at the same time as our Proxy Statement for the 
first time 
12Continue advocacy for 
environmental and social 
issuesEnvironmental and 
Social Advocacy
12The Office of Racial Equality and Social Unity (ORESU)  
continued to champion racial equality in the United States
Continued to advocate for clean energy legislation in the U.S.  
and Europe
¹ Our goals, announced in our 2020 Sustainability Report, were informed by a sustainability materiality assessment Corning conducted with the  
  consulting firm EY in 2019. Through this assessment process, we identified 20 issues deemed to be material to our business. These material  
  issues span four key areas: environmental, social, governance, and product. For more information, see our 2020 Sustainability Report, page 43 . 
SUST AINABILITY GOALS AND PROGRESS 
Sustainability at Corning 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 24 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Find out more in the 
Environment section   
of this report.
In 2021, using guidance developed by 
the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi), Corning added two more goals 
to our list of climate commitments :
• Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
by 30%  (absolute basis) by 2028 
compared to a 2021 baseline. Our 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
reduction goal is in alignment with a 
1.5°C future scenario.
•  Reduce our relevant Scope 3 
emissions by 17 .5% (absolute 
basis) by 2028 compared to a 
2021 baseline. Our Scope 3 GHG 
emissions reduction goal is in 
alignment with a well‑below 2°C 
future scenario.
Board Level Senior Leaders ManagementMAP and Key Functional 
Sustainability Leaders
Corporate Responsibility 
and Sustainability 
CommitteeSustainability Steering 
CommitteeSustainability Working 
CommitteeSustainability Center of 
Excellence
Includes four members of the 
Board of Directors and typically 
meets five times per yearIncludes the vice president, 
Sustainability and Climate 
Initiatives: the chief 
technology officer; the chief 
engineer; and other leaders 
from cross-functional areas, 
and meets quarterlyIncludes cross-functional 
and cross-organizational 
representatives and meets 
monthlyFormed in 2021 and includes 
vice president, Sustainability 
and Climate Initiatives; director, 
sustainability; MAP sustainability 
leaders and sustainability leaders 
of key Corning functions
Oversees the company's 
sustainability and GHG 
reduction programs
 
Monitors strategies and policies 
in the areas of public relations, 
reputation, employment policy, 
human capital management, 
employee relations, supply 
chain integrity, human rights, 
political activity, community 
responsibility and environmental 
and social mattersOversees the activities of 
the Sustainability Working 
Committee, including review 
and approval of work effortsCoordinates initiatives 
toward the company's short-, 
medium-, and long-term 
sustainability goals and 
objectivesEnsures coordination of 
sustainability efforts and climate 
initiatives among the Sustainability 
and Climate Initiatives department, 
key functional departments, and 
the MAPs
 
Monitors global trends in 
sustainability and changing 
stakeholder expectationsThese goals build on existing  
efforts to reduce our energy usage, 
which have earned us recognition 
from the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency ENERGY ST AR 
program for eight consecutive years. 
We are now accelerating our efforts 
to meet our 2028 goals through a 
multipronged approach. 
SUST AINABILITY GOVERNANCE 
The Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee of our Board of 
Directors oversees the company’s sustainability efforts. 
In 2021, Corning appointed a vice president of Sustainability and Climate 
Initiatives, reporting to our executive vice president and chief strategy officer. 
This VP position leads our new Sustainability Center of Excellence, working 
closely with our Senior Leadership T eam and business units in overseeing the 
company’s sustainability efforts and progress toward our goals.Introducing Greenhouse Gas Reduction Goals
Sustainability at Corning 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 25 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Stakeholder Engagement 
The following table highlights the multiple interactions we host to inform and advise our sustainability goals and  
business strategy.
Stakeholder Group How We Engage Key T opics
Our People Employee training and development
Corning intranet
Manager-employee performance  
management process
Employee surveys (Voice to Action)
Code of Conduct training 
Manager briefings
Quarterly employee  
communication meetings
Corning Incorporated Foundation 
employee programs 
Corning Sustainability Network
Employee Resource GroupsCareer planning and development 
Compensation, benefits, and related policies
Employee Assistance Program 
Mobility across business units and functions
Performance feedback
Wellness support
Training and development
Volunteerism 
Our Partners  
(Customers and 
Suppliers)Joint innovation efforts 
Customer ESG surveys and contract 
provisions
Corning.com
Direct customer engagement
Supplier Code of Conduct
Supplier assessments and audits
Supplier quarterly business reviews 
Supply chain-focused organizationsProduct solutions/innovations
ESG performance
ESG reporting
Labor matters
Renewable energy use
Supply demand balancing
Growth roadmaps and supply chain mapping
Collaboration/partnership possibilities
Validation of social responsibility in supply chain
Supplier diversity
Conflict minerals compliance
Supplier responsible-mining requirements 
Human rights and human trafficking/modern slavery in 
the supply chain
Our Investors Quarterly earnings reports and calls
News releases
Proactive shareholder outreach
Annual reports, meetings, and other 
company filings with the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission
Investor and analyst days
Investor conferences
Corning.comBusiness and financial results and strategy 
Corporate governance 
Corporate sustainability 
Executive compensation
Risk oversight
Our Communities Ongoing Corning Incorporated Foundation 
activities
Ongoing Corning Enterprises activities
Local operationsHealth and human services
STEM education and cultural awareness 
Child care, housing, and economic development
Social value creation through volunteerism and grants
Society  ESG ratings
Direct engagement
News releases
Corning.comESG performance
Human rights
Human trafficking and modern slavery
Future Stakeholders T echnology, capital projects, sustainability 
initiativesPositive impact on the world, long-term value to society
Sustainability at Corning 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 26 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Photo courtesy of Corning  
employee Rena Shi
Environment
We believe sustainable 
business practices are  
vital — to society and to  
progress. We’re working to 
develop, implement, and enhance 
business practices that support 
healthier communities. We also believe 
Corning can make singular contributions to 
combat climate change through our products 
and technologies.
Reducing our impact on the planet is our responsibility 
as a corporate citizen, especially given the urgency of the 
climate crisis. It is also a critical cost-mitigation strategy as 
energy prices rise and the impacts of climate change further 
strain access to natural resources, such as water — particularly in 
water-scarce regions. Addressing climate risk will help limit our 
exposure to future regulatory risks linked to carbon emissions. 
And we recognize that customers increasingly seek products that 
contribute to their own sustainability goals. 
IN THIS SECTION:
 Our Environmental Strategy and Management Approach  
 Energy and Emissions
 Water Management  
 Waste Management  
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 27 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Corning is always searching for ways to reduce energy 
and natural resource consumption and minimize waste at 
every step of our operations — in our research labs, our 
manufacturing plants, and our offices. 
Our goal is to design and manufacture products 
with less environmental impact throughout their life 
cycles — from concept, design, and material choices 
through sourcing, manufacturing, customer use, and, 
ultimately, end of life. In 2022, Corning Life Sciences and 
Corning Optical Communications will pilot design-for-
sustainability methods to define and embed sustainability 
advancements across the entire product life cycle.
Our approach is guided by our Environmental Policy , which 
outlines our commitment to operate in an environmentally 
responsible manner while complying with and striving 
to exceed all applicable laws, regulations, and company 
standards. Our global product development teams 
are responsible for environmental compliance and use 
our environmental management system — based on 
the principles of the global standard ISO 14001 — to 
track environmental data and help ensure regulatory 
compliance. Corning's director of sustainability, global 
environment, Global Energy Management, and capital 
project management provides annual updates on our 
Our Environmental Strategy  
Global Energy Management (GEM) 
strives to continuously improve reliability, 
efficiency, and productivity to make 
customers and the company more 
competitive and to support healthier 
communities around the world. Continuously improve energy, water, and natural resource 
management in operations
Incorporate energy, water, and natural-resource 
innovation in product development, product design, and 
manufacturing processes
Engage employees and suppliers in energy, water, and 
natural-resource management
Ensure Corning meets customer requirements regarding 
energy, water, and natural-resource utilization
Analyze and communicate Corning’s progress and 
success in energy, water, and natural-resource innovation 
to internal and external stakeholdersenvironmental performance to our Board’s Corporate 
Responsibility and Sustainability Committee.
Our Global Energy Management (GEM) program within 
Corning’s Manfacturing T echnology and Engineering 
(MT&E) organization manages our global energy  
use to optimize energy productivity, power supply 
reliability and environmental impact, while also 
managing water, waste, and emissions.  
Our environmental strategy is based on  
GEM’s mission for Corning to be a  
responsible user of energy, water,  
and other natural resources. OUR ENVIRONMENT AL STRA TEGY AND MANAGEMENT APPROACHEnvironment
GEM USES A FIVE-PRONGED APPROACH: 
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 28 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Photo courtesy of Corning  
employee Daniel Schultz
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS
We continually work to identify and implement new approaches to energy-
efficient technologies and energy diversification within our operations. We also 
recognize energy and emissions impacts across our entire value chain and work 
with our suppliers and customers to enhance sustainable practices.
We launched our Global Energy Management (GEM) program — aligned 
with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ENERGY ST AR® Guidelines 
for Energy Management — in 2006 to create and execute effective energy 
strategies across our global operations. Since then, the program has grown 
to include energy-conservation teams at every Corning manufacturing 
facility around the world. This allows us to look at our energy and emissions 
management using a holistic approach. 
Understanding and Mitigating Climate Risks and Opportunities  
In 2021, we engaged management ‑level personnel across Corning’s five Market ‑Access Platforms to understand which 
climate‑related risks were most relevant to their business units. Using this feedback, we identified seven climate‑related 
risks and two climate-related opportunities (see table) and conducted an in-depth scenario analysis to assess their 
potential impact on our business under two different climate scenarios: 
The results of this analysis showed that, in a scenario where the world continues on the current trajectory (BAU), the 
greatest risks to Corning’s business are related to physical climate events, including chronic changes in precipitation 
patterns and extreme weather events. Corning’s business is geographically diversified, which can help reduce the 
potential impact of extreme weather events. 
Under the 1.5D scenario, our analysis revealed that changing customer behavior and carbon pricing obligations are 
anticipated to have the greatest impact to our business. We are actively engaging with customers to understand their 
sustainability‑ and climate‑related needs and to find ways to support those needs. 
T o reduce potential risk related to carbon, Corning is accelerating efforts to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions.  
We are also applying our capabilities to invent technologies that reduce carbon emissions and others that remove  
carbon from the air. Business as Usual (BAU):   
We constructed this scenario using transition 
factors from the Current Policies Scenario from 
the International Energy Agency's (IEA) 2019 World 
Energy Outlook Report, physical factors from 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
aligned with RCP 8.5, and socioeconomic factors from 
Shared Socioeconomic Pathway (SSP) 5. 1.5-Degree (1.5D):   
We constructed this scenario using transition factors 
from the Sustainable Development Scenario from IEA’s 
2019 World Energy Outlook Report, physical factors 
from IPCC’s draft Sixth Assessment Report aligned with 
RCP 1.9, and socioeconomic factors from SSP-1.
CA TEGORY CLIMA TE-RELA TED RISK AND/OR OPPORTUNITY
Transition RiskPolicy and LegalCarbon pricing and reporting obligations
Mandates on and regulation of existing products and services
MarketSustainable supply chain
Changing customer behavior
Reputation Increased stakeholder concern/negative feedback
Physical RiskChronic Sea-level rise and droughts
Acute Extreme weather events
OpportunityProducts and Services Development of new products or services through R&D and innovation
Energy Source Use of lower-emission sources of energy 
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 29 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022In 2021, using guidance developed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) , 
Corning added two more goals to our list of climate commitments ( see page 23 ): 
F or more information on our climate-related 
efforts, see our T ask F orce on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosure (TCFD) report  (page 74) .• Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions by 30%  (absolute basis) by 2028 compared to  
a 2021 baseline. Our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction 
goal is in alignment with a 1.5°C future scenario.
• Reduce our relevant Scope 3 emissions by 17 .5% 
(absolute basis) by 2028 compared to a 2021 baseline.  
Our Scope 3 GHG emissions reduction goal is in alignment 
with a well‑below 2°C future scenario.
In 2021, Corning committed publicly to submitting these goals to SBTi. This builds  
on our multiyear effort to address the impact of climate change — efforts, which,  
in some cases, span well over a decade. Our efforts include:
• Increasing Use of Renewable Electricity:  
Corning is one of the largest users of solar 
energy in the United States. According to 
the most recent Solar Energy Industries 
Association report (2019) , Corning ranked 
18th among businesses in the United States 
and second within the manufacturing sector 
for corporate solar energy usage. Corning 
has committed to a fourfold increase in our 
renewable electricity use (2018 baseline) 
and is on a path to 100% renewable 
electricity in the next five to seven years 
in the United States, Canada, and Europe. 
We are working with partners to solve the 
challenges of renewable electricity in Asia 
and our other locations and expect to greatly 
expand renewable electricity use in those 
geographies over the next decade. 
•  Investing in Low-Carbon T echnologies:  
By investing in emerging technologies, 
Corning is identifying ways to replace natural 
gas with low-carbon fuel options to melt 
glass and fire ceramics. We have also begun 
a program to identify and replace equipment 
that currently uses natural gas or high-
carbon fuel sources with electrical equipment 
powered with green electricity. 
 • Continuing F ocus on Energy Efficiency:  
Corning's energy management has been 
recognized by the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency ENERGY ST AR  program 
for eight consecutive years. Corning 
continues to optimize processes to  
reduce energy use, invests in energy 
efficiency projects, and communicates 
opportunities and best practices to all of  
our manufacturing facilities.Accelerating Climate Actions by Introducing Carbon-Reduction Goals
 • Working with Suppliers to Reduce 
Upstream Emissions:  Corning has 
successfully engaged its suppliers on 
sustainability, producing improved visibility 
and compliance, such as increased social 
and environmental responsibility with mined 
material suppliers. The company’s supply 
chain organization has begun identifying and 
engaging with suppliers on GHG reductions. 
For example, multiple Corning businesses 
have reduced the distance traveled from 
suppliers to Corning manufacturing sites, 
resulting in reduced transportation emissions.
• Integrating Sustainability into our 
Innovation Process:  Corning’s new product 
innovations are increasingly focused on 
reducing embodied carbon in our products 
and our customers’ products and operations. 
Corning is working with multiple customers 
across our Market-Access Platforms to deliver 
those customers’ GHG reduction goals. 
Several customers have selected Corning to 
be part of their leading group of vendors to 
jointly develop the customers’ supply chain 
GHG reduction programs. Corning has begun 
to use life-cycle assessments performed by 
third parties to provide industry-recognized 
calculations of embodied carbon. The 
company is also developing GHG‑impact 
estimates to be used in the early-stage 
design of our products.
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 30 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022We continually work to identify and implement new approaches to energy.  
In 2021, the EP A named Corning an ENERGY ST AR® Partner of the 
Y ear for the eighth consecutive year and recognized us for Sustained 
Excellence for the sixth consecutive year . In addition, six of our global 
manufacturing facilities received the ENERGY ST AR® Challenge for Industry 
recognition by each exceeding the goal of improving energy efficiency by at 
least 10% in five years or less.
These honors recognize not only Corning’s year ‑round dedication to energy 
efficiency but also the integral role that the ENERGY ST AR program plays in  
our enterprisewide environmental efforts. 
Global Energy Management (GEM) measures its program against ENERGY 
ST AR’s 23 Guidelines for Energy Management and encourages all energy  
team members around the world to use ENERGY ST AR resources. We also  
use ENERGY ST AR guidelines as a framework to develop our water and  
waste programs.
Fast-Tracking Renewable Energy  
In 2021, a cross‑ functional team with representatives from Corning’s energy, 
finance, procurement, and enterprise risk departments came together to 
develop a more streamlined approval process for renewable energy  
projects to fast-track renewable energy action within the company.  
Recognizing the potential for cross-sector improvement, the  
project achieved recognition as Corning’s fifth consecutive  
ENERGY ST AR T op Project. The company is now sharing the  
process with other ENERGY ST AR partners to help them  
achieve similar efficiencies.Corning's global manufacturing facilities have received 
the ENERGY ST AR® Challenge for Industry recognition 
43 times since 2014. In 2021, six sites were recognized.ENERGY ST AR Leader  
8 YEARS and Counting
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 31 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Our Sustained Investment in Solar Energy 
2015:  Corning financed a North Carolina solar energy production facility by  
entering into a 25‑year power purchase agreement, which produces approximately  
105,000 megawatt hours of electricity assigned to Corning each year.
2018:  Corning joined Apple, one of our major customers, and nine other Apple suppliers  
to jointly invest $300 million by 2022 in the China Clean Energy Fund. The fund will invest  
in and develop projects totaling more than 1 gigawatt of renewable energy in China, the  
equivalent of powering nearly 1 million homes.
2019:  We added solar installations to three Corning Life Sciences facilities: Wujiang, China; Amsterdam, 
Netherlands; and Oneonta, New Y ork, U.S. In total, these solar arrays will help avoid 3.5 million pounds of 
greenhouse gas emissions annually. 
2020:  Corning signed a long-term power purchase agreement for our Canton, New Y ork, facility, enabling a 
new off-site solar array to be built within the Riverview Solar T echnology Park in T onawanda, New Y ork. 
2021:  The Riverview Solar T echnology Park began operations along with three new community solar 
projects in Dix, Orange, and Plattsburgh, New Y ork. By supporting local renewable projects, Corning is doing 
more than mitigating our own carbon footprint — we're serving as a committed and major offtaker, helping 
to reduce the developers' risk in these local renewable energy projects. 
Supporting  
Advances in Solar
T o further reduce the 
carbon footprint associated 
with the solar supply chain, 
Corning prioritizes the use 
of ultra-low-carbon solar 
panels, which contain up 
to 50% less embodied 
carbon than typical solar 
panels, in large part due to 
the advantaged polysilicon 
produced by Hemlock 
Semiconductor Operations 
(HSC). Corning's stake in 
HSC increased to 80.5%  
in 2020.  
Learn more about HSC .2021 Site Highlights: Renewable Energy Initiatives
Anhui, China:  Corning collaborated with BOE, one of our largest 
customers, to install thousands of solar-distributed photovoltaic power 
stations on the rooftop of our Gen 10.5 display glass manufacturing facility 
in Hefei, China. The solar panel processing area extends approximately the 
length of three soccer fields and is designed to produce nearly 2.5 million 
kilowatt-hours of power each year.
Hainan, China:  Corning installed solar panels that can generate clean 
electricity for the plant office, reducing the amount of energy the site will 
need to source from the power grid. 
Harrodsburg, Kentucky, U.S.:  Corning is part of Apple’s Supplier Clean 
Energy Program, which is designed to advance the use of renewable energy 
throughout the company’s supply chain and is an integral part of Apple’s 
efforts to become carbon neutral by 2030. As part of that commitment, 
Corning has deployed multiple clean-energy solutions, including installation 
of a solar panel system at our Harrodsburg facility. 
T aiwan:  Corning continued to supply customer AU Optronics (AUO) with 
solar energy from solar panels on the roofs of our two manufacturing 
facilities. AUO rents the roof space from Corning and sells generated power 
back to the Taiwan Power Company, a state-owned electricity utility. 
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 32 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 20222021 Site Highlights: Energy Efficiency Initiatives
Canton, New Y ork, U.S.:  Corning designed a heat-recovery process to 
reduce gas consumption and emissions of CO₂ and NOx; upgraded boilers 
in administrative areas to high‑ efficiency boilers 
Erwin, New Y ork, U.S.:  Corning completed LED lighting retrofits and 
installed smart lighting controls 
Hainan, China:  Corning completed three energy-saving projects —  
a cooling chiller improvement, a solar-cell project, and an insulation 
improvement of cooling water Embedding Sustainability Across the Product Life Cycle
Our Optical Communications business calculated “cradle-to-grave” carbon 
footprint data for several of its new Data Center and FTTx factory terminated 
cable and connectivity solutions using the Life Cycle Assessment methodology 
in accordance with ISO 14040 and 14044 International Standards. These 
assessments showed that our innovations have lower carbon footprints than our 
legacy solutions. In 2022, we will continue using this methodology to support 
our customers' GHG reduction programs, identify sustainability enhancements, 
and develop GHG impact estimates for early‑stage innovation programs.
Energy + Greenhouse Gas PerformanceEvery Kilowatt  
Hour Counts
 
Our Keene, New 
Hampshire, site — and 
five more Corning 
manufacturing sites 
— exceeded energy 
efficiency goals set by 
the EPA’s ENERGY ST AR® 
Challenge for Industry 
program. A 2021 energy 
audit of the facility’s air 
systems revealed and 
enabled remediation of 
two key contributors to 
system inefficiency: high 
pressure settings on the 
compressed air system 
and the large amount of 
air consumed by diamond-
turning machines.
3.1
Natural Gas
4.4
Electricity0.5
EMEA0.1
Other
7. 5
Grand T otalENERGY BY TYPE*
2021 TOTAL TERAWATT-HOURS (TWh), roundedENERGY USE BY REGION
2021 TOTAL TERAWATT-HOURS (TWh), rounded
4.1
A PAC2.8
U.S.7. 5
Grand T otal
78 EMEAEMISSIONS BY REGION AND SCOPE  1 
THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS CO2e
4 Other
335  U.S.277
A PAC 694
Grand T otal
58 EMEAEMISSIONS BY REGION AND SCOPE 2 
THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS CO2e
46 Other
323 U.S.1,701
A PAC2,128
Grand T otal
136  EMEAEMISSIONS BY REGION GRAND TOTAL 
THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS CO2e
50 Other
658 U.S.1,978
A PAC2,822
Grand T otalOur greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are calculated in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. Our Scope 2 emissions follow the location‑based 
approach, using emission factors provided by the EPA eGRID for U.S. operations and the IEA for international operations. Data has been externally verified 
by LRQA. Our verified data as disclosed here represents approximately 99.3% of our total energy use. Energy and carbon emissions data does not include 
our subsidiary Hemlock Semiconductor Operations (HSC). Intensity figures are based on the company's net sales, which include HSC.*Electricity and natural gas only types verified; equal 99.3% of total TWh
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 33 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 20223.1
Natural Gas
4.4
Electricity0.5
EMEA0.1
Other
7. 5
Grand T otalENERGY BY TYPE*
2021 TOTAL TERAWATT-HOURS (TWh), roundedENERGY USE BY REGION
2021 TOTAL TERAWATT-HOURS (TWh), rounded
4.1
A PAC2.8
U.S.7. 5
Grand T otal
78 EMEAEMISSIONS BY REGION AND SCOPE  1 
THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS CO2e
4 Other
335  U.S.277
A PAC 694
Grand T otal
58 EMEAEMISSIONS BY REGION AND SCOPE 2 
THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS CO2e
46 Other
323 U.S.1,701
A PAC2,128
Grand T otal
136  EMEAEMISSIONS BY REGION GRAND TOTAL 
THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS CO2e
50 Other
658 U.S.1,978
A PAC2,822
Grand T otalEnergy + Greenhouse Gas Performance
Our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are calculated in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. Our Scope 2 emissions follow the location‑based 
approach, using emission factors provided by the EPA eGRID for U.S. operations and the IEA for international operations. Data has been externally verified 
by LRQA. Our verified data as disclosed here represents approximately 99.3% of our total energy use. Energy and carbon emissions data does not include 
our subsidiary Hemlock Semiconductor Operations (HSC). Intensity figures are based on the company's net sales, which include HSC.
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 34 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Energy + Greenhouse Gas Performance
Energy + Greenhouse Gas Performance
2017 2019 20182.7
2.42.62.8
2.5
2020 2021EMISSIONS
MILLIONS OF METRIC TONS CO2e (Scope 1 /2), rounded
2017 2019 2018.24 .24
.22 .22
.20
2020 2021EMISSIONS INTENSITY
CO2e/1000 $ Revenue, rounded 
2017 2019 2018.61.63
.62
.54.60
2020 2021ENERGY INTENSITY
KWh/$ Revenue, rounded
2017 2019 20186.9
6.37.17.5
6.8
2020 2021ENERGY USE*
TERAWATT-HOURS (TWh), rounded 
*Electricity and natural gas only types verified; equal 99.3% of total TWh
Our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are calculated in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. Our Scope 2 emissions follow the location‑based 
approach, using emission factors provided by the EPA eGRID for U.S. operations and the IEA for international operations. Data has been externally verified 
by LRQA. Our verified data as disclosed here represents approximately 99.3% of our total energy use. Energy and carbon emissions data does not include 
our subsidiary Hemlock Semiconductor Operations (HSC). Intensity figures are based on the company's net sales, which include HSC.
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 35 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022WA TER MANAGEMENT  
From our manufacturing floors to our corporate offices, we're constantly  
working to preserve one of nature's most precious resources — water.
Fresh water is vital to our direct manufacturing operations. While the majority of Corning  
manufacturing facilities use local public water supply in their operations, certain  
manufacturing sites require access to industrial water. 
All Corning manufacturing sites are certified to ISO 14001:2015 and use environmental  
management systems to track water withdrawal, discharges, and consumption, and to identify ways  
to improve water efficiency and quality. We aggregate at the corporate level the volume of all water we 
discharge to municipal sanitary systems to assess year-over-year water-use patterns. Individual sites track 
discharges to other destinations and to other discharge quality, as required by local regulations. Where 
possible, we recycle industrial wastewater for use in our manufacturing process.
Corning plans for business growth in the coming years, which could require increased fresh water in our direct 
and indirect operations. We are working to offset this future demand through water-use reduction projects in 
our direct operations today, with a focus on manufacturing plants located in areas of high water stress. 
We assess water risk as part of our enterprise risk management (ERM) assessment process every two  
years using the World Resource Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool and the support of external 
consultants. We conducted our last assessment in 2020, finding that 17 of our operating facilities  
are located in high or extremely high stressed, water-scarce regions of the world. In 2021, we  
prioritized our water-reduction efforts on these facilities, initiating water-saving activities in  
four of our top 10 water-consuming plants. 
2021 Site Highlights
With water scarcity becoming a critical issue globally, 
we’re committed to improving our product design and 
manufacturing processes to reduce water use in our direct 
operations and throughout our supply chain. Our teams around 
the world are implementing measures to reduce water usage, to 
creatively clean and purify water, and to recycle it. These efforts are not 
only reducing our use of water, but also saving Corning money. 
Canton, New Y ork, U.S.:  A team saw an opportunity to improve how we 
sample water in our pump house system and reduce water use. The Canton 
team significantly curtailed time spent in a backwash mode, during which water 
is drained from the system. The result: The time to sample water decreased and 
water was saved. 
Wilmington, North Carolina, U.S.:  We developed ways to recycle water to 
support operations at our optical fiber plant located in a water ‑stressed region. 
 Reynosa, Mexico:  We corrected water leaks in a reverse-osmosis system, 
saving water consumed in this water-stressed region.
Port Elizabeth, South Africa:  Nearly half the site’s water consumption is from 
collected rainwater.Less than 10%   
of Corning’s water 
withdrawal  
is in water-stressed  
regions.F or more information, we will be publishing our response to  
CDP’s Water Security program  in summer 2022. In the disclosure, 
we will detail how we use water across our global operations and 
how we manage associated water risks and opportunities.  
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 36 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Water Efficiency 
We are committed to data assurance. The last year for which we have 
assured water data is 2020 (below). We are working to improve our data 
collection methodology and are committed to evolving disclosure in 
future reports. 
WA TER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE
Assumptions:
*Third-party sources make up majority of water withdrawal, at 67% and 68% for 2019 and 2020, respectively
**Warehouses and contract manufacturers are excluded from water withdrawal information2019 2020 % Change
Fresh Surface Withdrawal 29,526 m³ 39,200 m³ 33%
Groundwater — Renewable (well water) 5,282,756 m³ 5,051,606 m³ -4%
Third-Party Sources*10,958,486 m³  10,602,601 m³ -3%
T otal Withdrawals**16,270,769 m³ 15,693,406 m³ -4%
WASTE MANAGEMENT  
We’re committed to responsibly managing waste produced both in our direct 
operations and throughout our supply chain. We use strategies such as 
increased diversion from landfills and overall waste minimization, while adhering 
to federal, state, local, and provincial waste laws and regulations.
We are also implementing the principles of a circular economy by managing 
product design and reducing reliance on raw materials through increased use  
of recycled and recyclable materials.
Our new-product development teams seek to invent products that  
incorporate recycled material without compromising quality, performance, 
or appearance. Sometimes that involves finding uses for materials previously 
considered to be waste. Looking to the future, we see the need for more 
circular manufacturing, where waste is minimized, resources are reused, and 
used products are repurposed. 
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 37 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Sustainability at Work
Corning recycles waste glass from our manufacturing processes back  
into our products. We also work with outside vendors to recycle glass  
that cannot meet our high quality standards so the material can have  
a new life.Corning and Verizon  
Establish Program to Recycle 
Shipping Reels
Maybe you’ve caught a glimpse of 
them on the highway: Reel after reel 
of Corning optical cable crisscrossing 
the United States bound for Verizon 
locations, as Verizon leverages 
Corning's optical fiber and cable to 
build out its nationwide high-speed 
broadband network. 
T eams at Corning and Verizon 
considered all the reels involved in 
transporting that cable, thought 
of both companies' long-standing 
commitment to sustainability, and 
saw an opportunity: What if the 
companies developed a return-and-
recycle program of wooden shipping 
reels, to eliminate the disposal of 
wooden reels and lessen the need to 
manufacture new ones? 
A Corning optical cable 
manufacturing plant in North 
Carolina, along with the Corning 
commercial team, worked with 
Verizon’s supply chain and 
operations groups to develop the 
program. They created a process to 
marshal and consolidate empty reels 
for pick-up, refurbishment, and reuse 
by Corning to ship out new product 
while supporting Verizon’s active, 
high‑volume demand for fiber cable.  
The result:  
More than 1.5 million pounds 
of wood recycled in two years, 
saving an estimated 795 trees.  
What is a Circular Economy?  
A circular economy is a model of production and consumption, which 
involves sharing, leasing, reusing, repairing, refurbishing, and recycling 
existing materials and products as long as possible. The process addresses 
global challenges like climate change, biodiversity loss, waste, and pollution 
by emphasizing design-based implementation of the three base principles 
of the model: eliminating waste and pollution, circulating products and 
materials, and the regeneration of nature.
In 2021, we continued efforts to develop our formal waste strategy. For 
example, working with the New Y ork State Pollution Prevention Institute, 
we determined a waste-measurement methodology and baseline waste-
generation status and identified best practices. In 2022, we plan to continue 
assessments of global Corning manufacturing plants, prioritized by the 
types and opportunities of their waste streams, and develop future waste-
reduction targets for Corning’s business divisions.  
 
2021 Highlights
Stryków, Poland:  
 Reduced waste by returning wooden pallets to suppliers for reuse. In 2021, 
the site was recognized with a Green Label Certificate for its efforts.
Eliminated the use of polypropylene reels for fiber optic terminals used 
for fiber ‑to‑the‑home. In addition to reducing single‑use plastics, this also 
enabled the site to increase the number of reels per pallet, resulting in less 
consumption of wood, while optimizing transportation.
Reynosa, Mexico:  
Created a more efficient packaging method for multiple 192‑ fiber optical 
cable assemblies and EDGE™ Modules for Data Center solutions. This 
reduced the use of corrugated cardboard, plastic packaging, and  
wooden pallets, while optimizing transportation costs. 
Environment 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 38 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Photo of a Corning employee  
and family
People
People are vital to Corning’s progress. Our success depends on 
the full engagement and contributions of more than 60,000 
employees around the world. We’re committed to providing each 
individual with a safe, welcoming, and inclusive work environment 
and a culture that lets them contribute fully and develop to their 
highest potential.
IN THIS SECTION:
 Our Culture  
 Workforce Data
 Training and Career Development  
 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
 Respecting Labor Rights
 Our Employee Health Programs
 Employee Safety  
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 39 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Recognizing Experience
We value our many long-tenured employees and have a long-standing 
tradition of recognizing them and celebrating their contributions to 
Corning’s success. Throughout the year, we highlight employees who 
have been with us for 10, 20, 30, and 40-plus years, and we annually 
celebrate active and retired employees who began their careers with 
Corning 50 and 75 years ago. We respect their knowledge and deep 
expertise accumulated over many years with Corning and appreciate 
their ongoing contributions to our company.
The American Chamber of Commerce 
(AmCham) in Singapore recognized 
Corning’s corporate social responsibility 
efforts with the AmCham CARES AwardWORKPLACE RECOGNITIONOUR CUL TURE
People join Corning and stay at Corning based on our commitment to making  
the world a better place through life-changing inventions. Despite the continuing  
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, Corning successfully added over 11,000 net new  
employees globally in 2021.
Corning is marked by a culture of continuous learning, backed by structured training and  
mentoring opportunities. Our culture also thrives on collaboration, with seasoned team members  
eager to help newer generations of employees as they look for ways to contribute. We also look out  
for one another by encouraging wellness and taking steps to reach our zero workplace injury goals.  
And we pride ourselves on cultivating an open and honest environment, where employees can feel safe 
speaking up and being their authentic selves.
A VERAGE YEARS OF SERVICEPeople
Asia
PacificEMEA7.47.1
3.39.0
Latin
AmericaNorth
America
Forbes World’s Best Employers
‘Best Place to Work’ by American 
Association of People with  
Disabilities and Disability:INForbes 2021 Best Employer of  
New GradsForbes America's Best Employers  
by State  
(North Carolina and New Y ork)
Corning China named a T op 
Employer 2021 by the T op 
Employers InstituteA top supporter of Historically Black  
Colleges and Universities (HBCUs)National LGBT Chamber of Commerce’s 2021  
National Business Inclusion Consortium T op 50  
Best-of-the-Best Corporations for Inclusion
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 40 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 20223,800
Contingent
Workers
61,200
Employees65,000
All Workers42,000
Hourly
19,200
Salaried61,200
T otal
Employees
10%
40%
Latin America27%
USA/Canada
23%
Asia Pacific14,300
Male
12,000
F emale26,300
T otal
New HiresEMEA2021 Global Workforce*
2021 Employees by Region *2021 Global Workforce by Employee Type*
2021 New Hires *
*As of December 31, 2021. Data rounded to nearest hundred. Due to rounding, some 
totals may not correspond with the sum of the separate figures.
*As of December 31, 2021. The scope of this data is limited to those employees who we capture with certain HR systems. 
This figure covers approximately 96% of all employees globally.WORKFORCE DA T A
2021 SALARIED TURNOVER BY REGION*
T otal Voluntary and Involuntary Turnover  
(including retirement, excluding interns)Voluntary Turnover  
(excluding retirement and interns)
T otal 9.7% 6.4%
Asia Pacific 8.8% 7. 6 %
EMEA 13.2% 5.8%
Latin America 9.9% 8.2%
North America 9.1% 5.4%
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 41 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022We believe learning and development 
is a lifelong experience, and we’ve 
worked to cultivate a robust culture 
of development that supports 
employees in their career journeys. 
We provide access to resources 
employees can use to strengthen 
their skills and explore different 
career aspirations, and we encourage 
manager and peer support to help 
guide and assist them along the way. 
On-the-job training and career 
experiences are key elements of our 
continuous learning approach. In 
2021, we saw strong demand  
for online learning via our new  
I Learn@Corning portal and other 
learning hubs. In less than nine 
months, employees accessed 
over 420,000 learning videos and 
established over 15,000 unique 
accounts on our new platform, a  
20-fold increase over prior years. 
Continual Conversations 
Corning employees at all levels pursue career development through conversations with their managers. Following a 
successful pilot, Corning is expanding a skill-building program for managers called Straight Talk, which focuses on building 
capabilities in conversations such as expectation setting, performance management, feedback, and career discussions.
In addition, our Human Resources representatives conduct one‑ on‑one career discussions with emerging, high‑potential 
talent to better understand career objectives, mobility preferences, and placement on specific succession plans. These 
discussions are enriched through our online career platform, which helps employees define development objectives, 
search role profiles, and conduct self‑assessments. In 2021, more than half of all salaried employees took advantage of 
this resource. In addition, the skills section, part of each employee’s Talent Profile, or internal resume, lets employees 
showcase their skills for greater visibility within Corning. Leaders use this resource to quickly staff project teams with 
employees who have the right capabilities and skills.
Performance Reviews  
An important aspect of Corning’s review process is that employees co ‑own the 
process. Employees draft their own objectives, summarize their accomplishments 
in their draft performance evaluations, and are encouraged to participate fully in the 
review discussion. In 2021, more than 98% of our salaried employees participated in the 
performance review process.*
In 2021, we launched a new program called “Reimagining Performance Management”  
in response to feedback from employees who wanted more ongoing feedback  
and stronger linkages to their career development plans. We will incorporate  
Design Thinking methodology into our performance management process  
moving forward to help drive overall organizational performance. We are  
also exploring expanding the program to nonunion hourly employees.Another important element is leadership training for  
employees all the way to senior management. 
• Our Leadership Fundamentals for Program Managers  provides an 
interactive, skill-based experience that enables innovation program 
managers to refine and develop the capabilities that will accelerate 
their performance and impact. In 2021, NASA Commander T erry 
Virts held a virtual conversation with program participants, sharing 
leadership insights from his time commanding the crew at the 
International Space Station. 
• Our Global Leadership Assessment and Coaching  program offers 
a personalized learning experience for emerging leaders, particularly 
those preparing for, or navigating, a transition to a new career path. 
The program leverages a combination of technology and assessments 
to provide holistic, individualized developmental feedback.
In the United States, recent college graduates gain exposure to roles 
across our global business through rotational developmental programs, 
such as our Optical Communications Commercial Rotational Program , 
known as BRiTE. For international professionals, we provide opportunities 
such as Corning China’s nine‑month leadership development program.
*Due to attrition and retirements, this rate is less than 100%.TRAINING AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT 
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 42 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Read how Corning advances science  
and engineering education .
Expanding T echnical Career Opportunities 
Through our T echnician Pipeline Program (TPP), cohorts of 
trainees (selected from a talent pool open to external candidates 
and contractors as well as Corning employees not working in a 
technical role) receive tuition assistance and career opportunities 
leading to full-time roles at Corning as technicians in research, 
development, manufacturing technology, and engineering, 
Advanced Optics, Life Sciences, and Optical Communications. 
Participants receive a competitive salary as well as full financial 
and academic support for two years while they complete an 
applied science associate degree in a technical field of study at 
one of our academic partner colleges. They do this while also 
working part time in a host group at one of Corning’s facilities. 
Upon graduation, they transition to full-time technician roles  
and actively participate in Corning’s TPP Professional  
Learning Community. 
This program benefits Corning, the participants, and our 
communities by bringing jobs to regions that are home to 
Corning facilities. Since 2008, the TPP has added 49 technicians 
to Corning (57% of whom are people of color or women) and has 
expanded from New Y ork to North Carolina and Maine.
Corning is a member 
of CEO Action for 
Diversity and Inclusion, 
the largest CEO-driven 
business commitment 
to advance diversity 
and inclusion in the 
workplace. DIVERSITY , EQUITY & INCLUSION
At Corning, we are committed to fostering a culture of belonging and equity, 
where diversity is celebrated and inclusion is the norm. 
We believe a diverse and inclusive workforce representing a rich mix of 
experiences, cultures, perspectives, and backgrounds provides Corning with 
a critical business advantage. A diverse workforce sparks ideas, strengthens 
business decisions, and helps develop breakthrough solutions for our 
customers. Diversity among employees also fosters a welcoming environment 
that attracts talented individuals and empowers them to be their best. 
Because of its strategic importance, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) is 
championed at the highest levels of our organization, guided by the Office of 
Global DE&I, which is led by our chief DE&I officer. In 2021, we worked toward 
developing a DE&I mindset in all employees to help increase diversity in our 
workplace, create opportunities for the advancement of diverse talent,  
and strengthen our inclusive culture. 
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 43 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Attracting and Recruiting  
Diverse T alent
In addition to our own talent 
acquisition programs, we collaborate 
with organizations such as the 
Society of Women Engineers, 
Association of Latino Professionals 
for America, National Society of 
Black Engineers, National Association 
of Black Accountants, Out for 
Undergrad, and military veterans to 
identify diverse candidates with the 
skills to be successful.
We also work with Historically Black 
Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) 
to build our pipeline of diverse talent. 
In 2021, we established a five‑year, 
$5.5 million partnership with North 
Carolina A&T State University — the 
largest HBCU in the United States 
— to prepare students for careers in 
STEM and education. The program 
includes undergraduate scholarships, 
graduate fellowships, and internships. 
See the Community section for more 
on our partnership with N.C. A&T .
Advancing Diversity within  
our Workforce 
We continue to make progress 
increasing the diversity of our 
leadership through diversity-focused 
succession planning and targeted 
talent development programs. Since 
2010, gender and ethnic diversity 
among members of our Corporate 
Management Group, which includes 
about 230 of the company’s top 
global leaders, increased from 28% 
to 50%; gender and ethnic diversity 
among our corporate officers 
increased from 21% to 38%.
Supporting Pay Equity 
Equal work deserves equal pay. In 2021, Corning achieved 100% gender 
pay equity among our global salaried workforce. This is a significant 
corporate-wide milestone that built upon our prior success in achieving 
100% gender pay equity in our seven largest countries. Corning continues 
to annually track and implement actions to maintain 100% gender pay 
equity globally. In the United States, we also maintained pay equity 
among underrepresented populations. ² The scope of this data is limited to those employees that we capture with certain  
 HR systems. This figure covers approximately 96% of all employees globally.
³ Fewer than 100 employees did not identify gender.F emale MaleDid not  
identify gender
T otal Employees 40% 60% <1%3
Administrative/T echnical 36% 64% <1%
Management/Professionals 31% 69% <1%
Production/Maintenance 44% 56% <1%40%
F emale
17%
50 and Older
52%
30-4931%
Y ounger Than 3060%
Male
2021 Employees by Gender and Job Category (global)²2021 Employees by Age2021 Employees by Gender
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 44 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022F ostering a Culture of Inclusion 
At Corning, we believe a culture of inclusion is one 
in which all our employees — of any gender, race, 
ethnicity, nationality, language, age, cognitive or 
physical ability, sexual orientation, education, religion, 
socioeconomic situation, or background: 
• Feel welcomed, trusted, respected, and valued as 
people and business partners. 
• Can bring their authentic selves to work and  
feel safe to express aspects of themselves  
and perspectives that may be different from  
their peers. 
• Will take action when someone is not being  
treated equally or with respect. 
While we have made progress on our journey,  
we have more to do.
Our global DE&I education and awareness efforts 
include a digital learning series and an online resource 
center. In 2021, we introduced unconscious bias 
training to our global salaried workers. In 2022, we plan 
to broaden the content of our DE&I training courses 
and expand to additional employee groups, including 
our non-salaried employees.
Disability Inclusion: Raising Awareness and  
Recognizing Our Strengths
When Carola Poggendorff's friend Andre suffered a stroke 
a few years ago, she struggled with ways to support him. As 
a result of his stroke, he now lives with aphasia, a language 
disorder that affects a person's ability to communicate. Carola, 
a customer service representative for Corning’s Optical 
Communications business, wanted to learn more. 
As the Berlin co-lead for our ADAPT (Abled and DisAbled 
Partnering T ogether) ERG, she invited Andre in for a seminar. 
Andre shared with Corning employees his experience with 
aphasia, how his life has changed, how allies can help, and 
where others living with aphasia can go for resources. It was  
one of several events the ERG hosted during Disability 
Awareness Month.
For Carola, getting involved with an ERG is all about raising 
awareness of various disabilities and diseases. By advocating 
for others, she believes ERGs can reduce prejudice and 
increase visibility."His ADAPT seminar really opened 
my eyes on how to deal with such 
disabilities. Stroke can happen  
to anyone."More than 4,000 employees participate in 59 
ERG chapters around the world. T o learn more 
about our ERGs, see our Global Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion report .
– Carola Poggendorff   
    Customer Service Representative, EMEA Our 16 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) also provide 
an opportunity for employees to develop connections 
throughout the organization, share experiences and 
perspectives, support each other in professional and 
personal development, and serve as a collective voice 
for our employees. Our ERGs, many of which have 
multiple chapter locations, represent employees who are 
women, Black, Asian, Latino, Native American, people 
with disabilities, members of the LGBTQ+ community, 
and veterans, among others. The ERGs are vital  
in creating cultural awareness, recruiting and  
retaining diverse talent, and inspiring  
corporate leadership to adopt new  
policies, practices, and services. 
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 45 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 20222021 RACIAL/ETHNIC GROUP REPRESENT A TION (U.S.-based employees only)*
All EmployeesAdministrative/  
T echnicalManagement/  
ProfessionalsProduction/  
Maintenance
American Indian/Alaskan Native 0.3% 0.5% 0.3% 0.3%
Asian 9.2% 2.8% 14.1% 6.3%
Black or African American 11.4% 4.8% 5.6% 17 .8%
Hispanic or Latino 4.4% 3.6% 3.9% 4.9%
Native Hawaiian or  
Other Pacific Island0.2% 0.2% 0.1% 0.2%
White 73.3% 86.9% 75.1% 69.0%
Two or more races 0.8% 0.7% 0.6% 1.1%
Not disclosed 0.4% 0.5% 0.3% 0.4%Excellence in Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Speaking up for Social Justice  
When we see social inequality, we cannot stay silent; we strive to speak 
up and take action.
Corning is part of the fabric of the communities in which we operate. 
We live and work in our communities, as do many of our customers and 
business partners. When one person is treated unjustly or discriminated 
against, we are all impacted. T ogether, we are working to support 
opportunities for underserved populations and to eradicate inequities  
and injustice. 
We believe education is a key tool to combat racial and economic 
inequities. That is why we are engaging in environmental and social 
policy discourse relevant to our company and our industries.*SASB TC‑HW‑ 330a.1 This data is presented in line with our definitions, which may differ from SASB definitions.Named to “Best-of-the-Best” Corporations  
for Inclusion  by the National Business  
Inclusion Consortium  for  
six c onsecutive yearsNamed a “T op Supporter of Historically Black 
Colleges and Universities  (HBCUs)” by the 
Council of Engineering Deans of HBCUs for  
19 consecutive years 
Earned a score of 100 on the Disability Equality 
Index  and recognition as a “Best Place to Work”  
by the American Association of People with 
Disabilities and Disability:IN for  
four consecutive yearsScored a 90 or above   
on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate  
Equality Index  in 2020 and 2021
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 46 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Making College Accessible for T omorrow’s T eachers 
Through our Edge for T omorrow Future T eachers Grant 
college scholarship program, we are encouraging students 
from Edgecombe County Early College High School in North 
Carolina to pursue careers in teaching. We have committed to 
sponsor one student per year for three years, beginning in 2021. 
Each student receives a $30,000 scholarship to use at a North 
Carolina university of their choice, in exchange for a three-year 
commitment to teach in Edgecombe County after graduation. 
“My parents always encouraged me to study hard,  
be disciplined, but most of all, to be better than them.  
Because I was born in the United States, I have many  
positive opportunities that they, as immigrants, did not  
have, and they told me to take advantage of as many  
of them as possible. From a young age, I planned to  
 honor them by doing just that. Because of this, I am  
inspired to attend a four-year university, and,  
with your generosity, my dreams can come true.”  
 
– Maria Mata-Reyes  
  Edge for T omorrow Future T eachers Grant award recipient 
Maria began classes in fall 2021 at North Carolina State University 
as a science education major. Upon completion of her degree, she 
plans to return to Edgecombe County and teach in her hometown. 
Championing Change: The Office of Racial Equality and Social Unity
Concerned by the persistence of racial inequality in the United States, in 2020, 
we established the Office of Racial Equality and Social Unity (ORESU) to 
champion change within Corning, the communities in which we operate, and at 
a national level in the United States. 
Throughout 2021, the office focused on facilitating equity and access in 
education, in employment opportunity, and in physical and mental safety for 
groups that have been institutionally disadvantaged at work, in society, and at 
pivotal points in their lives.
Supporting Education
At Corning, we believe everyone should have access 
to education and skills training, which are essential for 
driving an inclusive economic recovery, growing our 
economy, and securing a strong financial future. 
We believe a key part of supporting opportunities 
for all within local school districts is ensuring the 
educational community itself is diverse and working to 
create an inclusive, welcoming culture for educators 
and students. 
In 2021, to support the development of a more 
equitable and inclusive school community where all 
students thrive, ORESU created the position of DE&I 
Education Coordinator. This person leads as a shared 
resource with our four partner school districts near 
Corning’s global headquarters in New Y ork state. This resource helps:
• Recruit racially diverse educators and educators 
with demonstrated skills in culturally responsive 
practices to fill teaching and administration roles.
•  Provide continuous professional development 
opportunities to help teachers engage in culturally 
responsive teaching practices. 
•  Implement DE&I policies and practices. 
•  Provide opportunities for students to share their 
experiences with school leaders and teachers in  
an effort to shape their learning environment.
Giving Students a Voice 
We created the Finger Lakes Y outh 
Forum, designed to empower high 
school students to discuss how 
DE&I issues affect them. In 2021, the 
students shared their perspectives 
through a new podcast series called 
Amplify Voices: Finger Lakes Y outh 
Forum, available on Spotify, Y ouTube, 
and Apple Podcasts.
We are also partnering with four 
middle schools in North Carolina to 
get students excited about business 
and build their entrepreneurial skills 
for the future through resources and 
real-world instruction developed by 
Planet Mogul. In 2022, we anticipate 
reaching more than 1,200 students. 
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 47 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Supporting Police Reform  
Corning is advancing a community process for racial 
reconciliation and community stability through 
its support of the Police Reform and Reinvention 
Collaborative for the city of Corning and the Steuben 
County, New Y ork, Sheriff’s Office. T o help increase 
transparency and local progress toward police reform, 
Corning offered to supply every police department in 
Steuben County with body cameras, as well as cover 
camera services, fees, and storage for two years. All 
11 municipalities agreed to adopt the body camera 
programs. Corning has also initiated a new task force 
in partnership with the city of Corning police and 
Steuben County Sheriff’s Office to encourage the 
reporting of hate-speech incidents. Supporting Black-Owned Businesses 
In 2021, Corning supported the growth of small 
Black-owned businesses in the early stages of 
business development in Wilmington, North Carolina. 
ORESU committed $30,000 to Genesis Block’s Wits 
Begin  program, providing four Black-owned startups 
with educational programming, technical assistance, 
business-model development, and mentoring. 
The organization also provides workspace, as 
well as access to professional networks to help 
entrepreneurs obtain loans. 
A positive work environment that 
reflects the fundamental dignity  
of every employee and the work  
they perform is critical to  
Corning’s success.
All Corning facilities operate in full 
compliance with labor laws. These 
include all laws and regulations 
related to working hours and 
minimum required breaks and  
rest periods. 
Corning also respects the rights 
of our employees to peacefully 
and lawfully form, join, not join, or 
leave workers’ associations of their 
own choosing. We encourage all 
workers to communicate openly with 
management regarding questions, 
concerns, or suggestions to improve 
working conditions, without fear of 
retaliation, harassment, intimidation, 
or interference. An estimated 
65‑70% of Corning employees 
worldwide are represented by 
a union, works council, or other 
employee representative body. When undertaking significant operational changes that could impact employees, 
we communicate the changes and provide advance notice according to country-
specific laws and regulations, internal policies, and, where applicable, the 
provisions of collective bargaining and works-council agreements.
T opics include: 
• Significant changes in technology 
or methods of operation affecting 
working conditions
• Workforce reductions, collective 
redundancies, or layoffs
• Sale, transfer, or discontinuation 
of businesses or operations in 
whole or part
• Mergers and acquisitions
• Subcontracting or  
outsourcing of work Under European co-determination 
regulations, additional information 
and consultation may apply to  
these matters: 
• Economic and financial situation 
of the company 
• Anticipated development of 
business and of production  
and sales
• Employment levels and future 
forecasts
• Environment, health, and safety
• Ethics and compliance
• Investments
• Organizational structure and 
anticipated changes
Additional communication and consultation with Corning’s 
transnational European Employee Committee may be required 
where significant changes impact more than one EU country.RESPECTING LABOR RIGHTS
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 48 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Learn more about Corning T otal Rewards .
Respecting and Protecting Human Rights  
Corning believes in the fundamental dignity of the 
individual. Human rights issues are reviewed at the 
highest level of our organization by the Corporate 
Responsibility and Sustainability Committee of our 
Board of Directors. Our Corporate Compliance Council 
provides additional oversight and periodically reports to 
the Audit Committee and Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee of the Board. 
Our approach is based on our Human Rights Policy4. Our 
Code of Conduct outlines employees’ ethical and legal 
obligations as Corning employees, including toward the 
protection of human rights in their work. Comparable 
expectations for suppliers are laid out in our Supplier 
Code of Conduct. These expectations are further 
supported by our Equal Employment Opportunity 
Policy, which mandates that we treat all employees and 
applicants equally and fairly. 
Corning respects and supports human rights as set out 
in these leading global frameworks.
• UN Global Compact  
• UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  
• International Labour Organization (ILO)Defending Human Rights  
T o ensure our efforts are directed to the areas where 
we can make the greatest impact, in 2020 we evaluated 
human rights risks in our various spheres of influence, 
including within our own company and those acting on 
Corning’s behalf. Using our Enterprise Risk Management 
process and risk management platform, we determined 
that the greatest potential for human rights impact 
is within our supply chain. With this guidance, we 
established a 2020 sustainability goal to reduce risk in 
our supply chain and strengthen our actions in this area. 
Learn more about Corning’s management of  
high-risk suppliers .
Employee Well-Being
Corning’s success depends on the well‑being of our employees, who we support through 
our comprehensive employee benefits program focused on three pillars : 
T otal Health
Helping employees 
and their families get 
and stay healthyT otal Wealth
Offering competitive 
pay opportunities that 
include innovative and 
valuable benefitsT otal Self
Encompassing a 
combination of 
work-life balance 
benefits and career 
development 
opportunities
⁴ This policy operates alongside and supports our Code of Conduct; Supplier Code of Conduct; product stewardship  
 programs; global environmental, health, and safety policies and procedures; and corporate compliance program. 
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 49 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022OUR EMPLOYEE HEAL TH PROGRAMS
Our Employee Health programs 
focus on three objectives: 
• Save a Life
• Protect Corning People
• Promote Well-Being
Corning Health Services staff are 
critical resources to crisis response 
in the workplace. In emergency 
conditions involving employee health, 
Corning protocols include quick 
evaluation of the situation, timely 
rallying of immediate resources, and 
access to local or regional medical 
resources to address the employee 
need. At more than 36 locations, 
Corning has on‑site Health Services 
staff who monitor employee health 
using occupational health measures 
and also help in the case of an 
emergency or crisis in the workplace. Corning recognizes the importance 
of satisfying regulatory obligations 
in monitoring employee health. 
In meeting these obligations, 
Corning also identifies ways in 
which continuous improvement can 
advance employee health and safety 
in the workplace. Corning channels 
the same technical innovation that 
drives our company culture into new 
manufacturing approaches that 
improve our employee experience in 
the workplace. 
Corning applies the proactive spirit 
of continuous improvement to 
promotion of employee wellness. 
Corning programs address well-being 
through a variety of health topics, 
including nutrition, physical exercise, 
weight management, smoking 
cessation, mental health, cooking, 
and work-life balance. In 2021, Corning put considerable 
effort into employee awareness 
and education related to the 
ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. 
Across our global presence, Corning 
implemented and adapted protocols 
designed to provide a protected 
workplace. We met and often 
exceeded the various government 
regulatory orders that were spurred 
by COVID ‑19’s global progression. As 
vaccines became available, Corning 
leveraged government programs or 
local health care providers to host, 
sponsor, or execute vaccination 
clinics globally. Corning also 
supported public health initiatives 
to increase vaccination rates in 
compliance with local regulations and 
while supporting employees in the 
vaccination decision.
Providing Peace of Mind for our Employees Using Corning T echnology
Corning technology and products aren’t just for our customers; we also find 
them useful in our own facilities.
In 2021, we painted more than a dozen high‑ traffic areas at our sites in China 
with paint featuring Corning® Guardiant® technology, which offers an added 
layer of protection from germs. Our Guardiant technology works by optimizing 
the preexisting antimicrobial potency of copper, using only a small amount of 
the element to achieve protective, long‑lasting efficacy against viruses and 
bacteria on a painted surface.
In the United States, our paint customers obtained regulatory approvals in 
2021; we expect to see their paints in some of our U.S. facilities and local 
establishments moving forward. A Corning employee 
in Korea receives her 
COVID-19 vaccination at 
one of our on-site clinics. At our facility in Reynosa, 
Mexico, more than 60,000 
employees and community 
members were vaccinated. 
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 50 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022EMPLOYEE SAFETY
Corning’s global health and safety program protects the health and safety of our employees, contractors, 
customers, and visitors each day by striving for zero occupational injuries across all operations. 
Our Approach  
Corning’s global health and safety program  
is guided by four principles: 
Full compliance with regulatory 
and corporate health and safety 
requirements, everywhere, all the time
 Continuous identification, prioritization, 
and elimination/mitigation of health and 
safety risk across all operations
 Unyielding commitment to building a 
sustainable, interdependent health and 
safety culture 
 Consistent actions to support the 
internalization of health and safety within 
each employeeOur global safety steering committee represents 
all Corning Market-Access Platforms and regions in 
promoting a culture of safety excellence and working to 
reduce workplace hazards, injuries, and illnesses.
The backbone of Corning’s global health and 
safety program is our 29 written standards — each 
addressing a specific area of occupational health and 
safety — describing the regulatory and Corning policy 
requirements that apply and providing a roadmap for 
how to achieve full and sustainable compliance. 
Corning’s global safety steering committee 
encourages employee participation in the health and 
safety standard development and revision process. 
Whenever a health and safety standard is developed or 
revised, council representatives present the standard 
to employees in their region or division and provide 
feedback to the standard’s author.
Our safety training program exceeds local regulatory 
requirements and strives to ensure all employees 
understand and are equipped to meet our safety 
expectations. Training content and frequency  
varies depending on each employee’s role  
and responsibilities.
Corning hosts global Learn and Leverage employee 
forums each month where a subject-matter expert 
reviews the requirements of a standard. Afterward, 
employees from one or more operations who have 
successfully fulfilled the requirements of the standard 
discuss how they have done so and share techniques 
that other operations can use to do the same. 
We also host quarterly town hall meetings where 
leadership reports on the company’s health and safety 
performance and highlights successes and challenges.In 2021, over 90% of employees  
participating in our annual  
corporate employee survey responded  
favorably to the statement “We take  
mutual responsibility to create a safe  
and secure workplace.” 
Compliance with our 29 health and safety standard 
requirements is continually evaluated through 
quarterly, monthly, and daily self-inspections within 
each operation. All deficiencies are documented with 
corrective actions, assigned to responsible persons, 
and tracked to closure. Overall program  
effectiveness is assessed by the operation  
each year and opportunities for improvement  
are documented, assigned, and tracked  
to closure.1
2
3
4
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 51 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022WORK-RELA TED INJURY AND ILLNESS*
Key Performance Indicator 2019 2020 2021
Fatalities (#) 0 0 0
Lost-Time Injuries / Illnesses (#) 122 123 150
Recordable Injuries / Illnesses (#) 297 269 319
    
Fatality Rate 0.00 0.00 0.00
Lost-Time Injuries / Illnesses Rate 0.21 0.22 0.24
Recordable Injuries / Illnesses Rate 0.50 0.49 0.50Health & Safety Risk Mitigation
Corning’s standards require each 
operation to inventory all of its 
routine and nonroutine tasks, 
analyze the health and safety risks 
associated with each task, prioritize 
operational risks, and take proactive 
steps to mitigate each risk until it 
is as low as reasonably achievable. 
After completing an initial inventory 
of all tasks, each operation reviews 
and updates its inventory at  
least annually. 
Each task is analyzed using a formal 
risk assessment methodology. 
After a risk has been assessed, 
each operation identifies control 
measures that can be implemented 
to reduce risk. Cross-functional 
teams that represent operations, 
engineering, maintenance, health 
and safety, medical services, as 
well as employees performing the 
work identify task risks and control 
measures to ensure robust risk-
mitigation processes across all 
operations. Each control is assigned 
to a responsible person for implementation and tracked to 
closure. Control effectiveness is 
assessed post-implementation, and 
additional controls are identified for 
implementation, as required.
When a near miss or injury does 
occur, Corning employs a rigorous 
process to understand the facts 
of the incident, investigate them, 
determine immediate and root 
causes, and take corrective 
actions to prevent recurrence. All 
near misses, first aid cases, and 
recordable injuries are entered into 
Corning’s digitized health and safety 
management tool, and incident 
investigations are initiated within 
24 hours of incident occurrence. 
Immediate and root causes of the 
incident and corrective actions 
are identified and entered into the 
system, and corrective actions are 
assigned responsible persons and 
due dates and tracked to closure. 
Corning evaluates the effectiveness 
of our global health and safety program through quarterly 
operating reviews. Performance 
is evaluated by key performance 
indicators such as the regulatory 
health and safety finding closure 
rate, level of compliance with health 
and safety requirements, injury 
investigation completion rates, total 
case incident rates, and lost-time 
incident rates. 
Corning’s corporate health 
and safety team assesses each 
production operation’s health 
and safety program every two 
years, covering more than 70% of 
employees. The team documents 
deficiencies and corrective actions, 
assigns resources, and tracks to 
closure. In 2021, the team conducted 
more than 25 assessments, 
identified and closed over 1,400 
deficiencies, and achieved over  
95% compliance with Corning 
corporate health and safety 
standard requirements.
T op-Quartile Performance 
We track our safety performance 
using an environmental, health, and 
safety (EHS) software platform 
that provides real-time metrics. 
We benchmark our performance 
through a membership-based 
global EHS networking and service 
organization. Specifically, we 
compare our injury and illness data 
with other global, industry-leading 
companies and continued to rank 
in the top quartile of performance, 
as measured by our T otal Case 
Incident Rates. Health and safety 
performance is reviewed at  
every meeting of the board’s 
Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee. *Includes employees and contingent workers
People 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 52 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Communities
IN THIS SECTION:
 Improving Quality of Life  
 2021 Giving
 Supporting STEM Education  
 A Global Commitment  Corning and our employees are committed to making 
a difference in the communities in which we live and work, 
not only through our technology, but also by giving back. 
T ogether with our partners, we strive to overcome the most 
pressing challenges and create a better tomorrow. 
Through philanthropy, volunteering, and investments, Corning 
seeks to support economic growth and build healthier, more 
resilient communities where people are engaged, businesses 
thrive, and educational opportunities are available to all. 
Communities 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 53 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022By partnering with 
local nonprofits, 
providing grants for 
programming, and 
engaging employees, 
the Corning 
F oundation aims to 
create a sense of 
belonging, pride,  
and optimism.The Corning Incorporated 
Foundation administers Corning’s 
charitable donations in U.S. 
communities where Corning 
operates. By partnering with 
local nonprofits, providing grants 
for programming, and engaging 
employees, the Foundation aims to 
create a sense of belonging, pride, 
and optimism. 
The F oundation focuses in  
four areas:
•  Education  to provide the tools to 
build a bright future for students, 
with an emphasis on science, 
technology, engineering, arts,  
and math 
•  Human Services  to support 
programs that address basic 
human needs for survival and 
physical health with an emphasis 
on at-risk youth 
•  Culture  to sustain and foster 
creativity in the arts and bring 
people together in ways that can 
refresh the mind and inspire  
the soul 
•  Volunteerism  to encourage 
Corning employees to offer their 
time and resources to support 
their communities 
Promoting Economic 
Development 
Corning Enterprises, created by 
Corning in 1983, works to make 
Corning, New Y ork, and surrounding 
communities a place where 
employees want to live, learn, and 
work. This includes collaborating with 
private- and public-sector leaders 
to drive economic development 
and strengthen human services 
in the community, which is home 
to approximately 6,000 Corning 
employees and their families. 
One major focus is Corning’s 
downtown, home to more than 250 small businesses and dozens 
of events annually, all managed by 
the Gaffer District management 
association, which receives the 
majority of its funding from Corning 
Enterprises. The redevelopment 
of Corning’s historic Market Street 
includes more than 125 renovated, 
market-rate apartments in response 
to employee desire to have a 
downtown living alternative. In 2021, 
several new apartments were added, 
and six new businesses opened with 
support from Corning Enterprises. 
In 2021, Corning Enterprises also 
provided grants to several local 
businesses in the Corning Valley, 
including a coding education 
provider, a holistic women’s health 
center, and a metal art studio. T o 
support small businesses as the 
pandemic continued to impact 
their survival, Corning Enterprises 
provided a $100,000 match to 
businesses participating in the newly 
launched Shop Where I Live platform. 
In addition, Corning Enterprises 
provided $2.5 million to support six 
area child care programs in 2021. 
These programs serve more than 
600 Corning-area children aged 6 
weeks to 12 years.
A Unified Approach  
Corning Enterprises and the 
Corning Incorporated Foundation 
work together under the umbrella 
Community Engagement. They 
collaborate to leverage each other’s 
strengths and skill sets to take on new 
initiatives and better meet the needs 
of our partners in the community. 
This approach reflects Corning’s 
message of unity in the communities 
in which we operate. Through these 
combined entities, Corning provided 
approximately $12 million to support 
nonprofits and help boost the 
economies in which we operate  
in 2021.IMPROVING QUALITY OF LIFECommunities
Communities 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 54 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Employee Giving 
Corning employees have a long 
history of giving back to their 
communities. Through our Matching 
Gifts program, we match individual 
charitable donations up to $7 ,500 
per employee annually. In 2021, 
Corning matched $1.3 million in 
employee donations. 
Our employees in New Y ork are lead 
supporters of the United Way of 
the Southern Tier, pledging more 
than $1.5 million in 2021. Corning 
employees in other U.S. locations 
gave nearly $600,000 to their local 
United Way organizations, for  
total 2021 pledging of more than  
$2 million to United Ways across the 
United States. 
Corning encourages employees 
to support causes they believe 
in through our Dollars for Doers 
program and our Excellence in 
Volunteerism award. In 2021: 
•  More than 375 employees 
participated  in Dollars for Doers, 
volunteering for a total of 15,383 
hours, which drove $175,050 back 
to eligible nonprofits. In addition, 
50 employees each logged 100 
volunteer hours — the maximum 
for the program. 
• F orty employees each received 
an Excellence in Volunteerism 
award  and a $1,000 grant from 
the Foundation, which they 
then gave to eligible nonprofit 
organizations.When Don Foster, manager, Corning Shared Services, went looking for 
volunteer opportunities for his team in 2021, he couldn’t have guessed that 
he and his co-workers would be helping his high school alma mater recover 
after a devastating flash flood.
Just two weeks before the start of the 
school year in the Corning, New Y ork, 
area, flash flooding of already swollen 
creeks damaged hundreds of homes 
and buildings and rendered the Jasper-
Troupsburg High School unusable for 
the 2021-2022 school year.
The school district reached out for help 
and the Foundation responded with 
a $10,000 grant to support teachers' 
classroom supplies. That’s when Don 
knew he had to do more. He and fellow 
employees quickly organized to help paint and prepare a nearby vacant 
school building for the upcoming school year. Within only 18 days, and 
with the help of community donations and volunteers, the high school 
welcomed students for the start of the school year. 
Coming T ogether for the Community  
In addition to Jasper ‑Troupsburg High School, the historic rains and 
flooding devastated local businesses and homes in communities near 
Corning. The Corning Foundation helped kick ‑start a flood response fund 
with a $35,000 grant. Corning Enterprises launched a matching challenge 
to local businesses, resulting in an additional $110,000 for the Flood Relief 
Fund. The fund helped more than 110 local families.CORNING VOLUNTEERS RESPOND TO 
DEV AST A TING FLOODS IN NEW YORK
2021 GIVING T otal Giving:  $12 million
 Employee-Logged Volunteer Hours:  15,383 Corporate Giving: 
Organizations  
receiving grants: 
More than 240  
T otal Direct Grants:  
>$3.4MMatching Gifts:
Grants: $1.3M
 # of recipient nonprofit  
organizations:  
681Dollars for Doers:
Grants: $175,050
 # of recipient nonprofit 
organizations with logged 
volunteer hours:  
192
Communities 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 55 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022At Corning, we believe education 
can be a transformative force in our 
communities. That is why we support 
increasing access to STEM education 
from pre-K through university and 
beyond. We believe when we invest  
in education, we're investing in  
the future.
Through the Foundation and our 
employee volunteers, we are 
striving to break down barriers to 
STEM education for historically 
underrepresented communities, 
improve science literacy, and 
empower diverse thinkers. 
In 2021, our support helped: 
• Give students in school districts 
near Canton, New Y ork, the 
opportunity to design and 
propose real microgravity 
experiments, with one being 
selected to be conducted at the 
International Space Station.  
(See spotlight on page 58 )
• Strengthen science literacy for 
students in grades 6-12 through 
a grant to the Massachusetts 
Biology Education Foundation. 
•  Remove financial barriers for 
Corning Community College 
students through a grant to the 
Geneseo Foundation to pursue a 
STEM education. 
• Provide access to Science News 
magazine and online STEM 
resources to thousands of 
students at New Y ork and North 
Carolina high schools through a 
grant to Society for Science. 
•  Provide equitable broadband 
access to university students in 
North Carolina and rural areas  
in New Y ork. In 2021, Corning and North Carolina Agricultural and T echnical (A&T) State 
University established a five‑year, $5.5 million partnership . The partnership 
will provide scholarships with a special focus on enhancing STEM 
education, helping students become community classroom teachers, and 
boosting the number of graduates in fields critical to the nation’s future.
COMPONENTS INCLUDE:
Corning Scholars Program for undergraduate and graduate 
students:  $3.3 million in scholarships for those in STEM fields and to 
help graduate more Black teachers. Scholarship recipients will come from 
school districts in regions where Corning has operations, with plans to 
return to teach in those districts after graduation. 
Experiential Learning Opportunities: $1.7 million to build career 
preparedness and pre-college initiatives through internships, career 
guidance, site visits, and other areas. Students will also participate in  
project competitions, mentorship, and networking opportunities with 
Corning leaders.
A&T’s Equity in Education Initiative:  $500,000 for a program to 
increase the number of Black college graduates securing careers in fields 
critical to driving economic growth and addressing critical challenges 
facing society and the environment. Two initiatives will receive $250,000 
each: The Leadership Cohort Initiative in the College of Engineering and 
the Black Male Initiative in the Willie Deese College of Business  
and Economics.SUPPORTING STEM  
EDUCA TIONJOINING FORCES WITH AMERICA’S LARGEST 
HISTORICALL Y BLACK UNIVERSITY
The first cohort of Corning 
Scholars and Fellows were 
welcomed in August 2021 at N.C. 
A&T , America’s largest historically 
Black university. Olivia Rogers of 
Pfafftown, North Carolina, was 
among the Scholars attending 
the day-long event. 
“Corning Scholars is such a blessing to me. As a Corning Scholar , 
I represent our future leaders and educators. Without this 
scholarship I would not have been able to go to college, let 
alone one with such an excellent education program.”
– Olivia Rogers  
  Corning Scholar
Communities 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 56 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Corning is working to address 
educational disparities and advance 
educational equity in Hickory, North 
Carolina, through a grant to the local 
branch of the NAACP . 
The $10,000 grant will provide support for children and families in four areas:
Tutoring for reading, math, and science in grades K-8
Mentoring for students in grades 6-8 to help increase achievement, improve 
attendance, and reduce office referrals 
Activities to introduce children to STEM concepts during early childhood 
development programs
Establishment of a family resource center for parent-teacher conferences and 
programs about positive parenting, financial literacy, and health careInspiring Girls to Pursue Careers in STEM  
In 2021, Corning hosted the 28th CHOICES, a Corning career exploration day for 
more than 150 eighth‑ grade girls. Participating virtually due to COVID ‑19, students 
engaged with Corning women in leadership roles to learn about career opportunities 
and education choices. T o date, more than 2,500 girls have participated in the 
annual event. 
– Sara George   
  Chief of Staff, Corning Gorilla Glass, and CHOICES alumna 
Combating Inequities through  
STEM Education in North Carolina
1.
2.
3.
4."I remember how being involved in the program made me feel strong, 
empowered, and confident. That experience had such a profound 
impact on me as little girl. I know without a doubt that it shaped who 
I am today and what I believe I can achieve.” 
Communities 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 57 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022* The Student Space flight Experiments Program 
(SSEP) is a program of the National Center for 
Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE) 
in the U.S. and the Arthur C. Clarke Institute for 
Space Education. It is enabled through a strategic 
partnership with Nanoracks, LLC, which is working 
with NASA under a Space Act Agreement as part of 
the utilization of the International Space Station as a 
National Laboratory.The possibility of humans on Mars 
and orbital vacations was once 
confined to Hollywood movies, 
but today it seems more probable 
thanks to new technologies enabling 
space exploration and monitoring — 
including those invented  
by Corning. 
With support from Corning and the 
Foundation, 150 middle and high 
school students in the Canton, New 
Y ork, area had a chance to be part of 
the action in 2021. Corning and the 
Foundation were the lead donors 
for Clarkson University's 
Clarkson Discovery 
Challenge-Space, which 
participated in the 
Student Spaceflight 
Experiments 
Program.* The 
program was powered through a partnership 
with Nanoracks, which works with 
NASA and the International Space 
Station (ISS).
Through the program, students 
learned about microgravity 
experiment design and proposal 
writing as they worked in teams to 
develop flight experiments for the 
ISS. University STEM faculty, science 
teachers from local schools, and 
employees from Corning’s Canton 
plant judged the experiments and 
provided coaching along the way. 
Ultimately one experiment from 
the local teams was chosen to be 
performed on the ISS during its 
expected mission in July 2022. It will 
examine the effects of microgravity 
on Chlamydomonas reinhardtii algae 
when exposed to optimal nutrient 
levels. The students will compare outcomes from space to those on 
Earth and present their findings at the 
Smithsonian Museum in Washington, 
D.C. They will also be invited to the 
launch of their experiment in Cape 
Canaveral, Florida. 
Additionally, Corning's high purity fused 
silica is commonly used for spacecraft 
windows and mirrors. In 2021, the James 
Webb Space T elescope was launched, 
housing three different telescopes with 
mirrors made by Corning.Bringing Space Closer to Home 
– Jincheng Du   
  Materials Science Professor, University of North T exas
“I feel very lucky to have been selected for the Fulcher 
Sabbatical program. I knew many of my Corning colleagues 
from various professional societies, but it’s been so great to 
meet them in person and have face-to-face discussions about 
research and how to apply it in different directions, especially 
after over a year of no travel for scientific conferences due  
to the pandemic.”Supporting Innovation in Glass Science  
Since 2014, Corning has hosted a biennial Glass Summit, an interdisciplinary 
gathering that combines insights from academics, designers, futurists, 
scientists, and technologists to inspire new thinking about emerging 
applications for glass. Corning also supports student inventors with the annual 
Glass Age Scholarship, awarded to one college student who works with Corning 
scientists on a glass science research project.
Through its Gordon S. Fulcher Sabbatical Program, Corning offers professors 
an opportunity to engage closely with Corning scientists on research topics 
of mutual interest and to spend a six to ‑twelve‑month sabbatical at Corning’s 
Sullivan Park research facility. In 2021, Jincheng Du, a materials science 
professor at the University of North T exas, was named the 2021 Fulcher 
Sabbatical scholar. 
As a boy growing up in central China, Jincheng was fascinated by how the 
universe worked. His father, a medical doctor, gave him books on the lives  
of scientists. Jincheng started to learn 
about the science behind x-rays and other 
breakthrough innovations. He began to  
crave new understanding about chemistry  
and materials — a passion that would launch  
him into a career as a glass scholar,  
fundamental researcher, and professor  
at universities around the world.  
He hopes to instill in his students the  
fascination with glass that he shares  
with his Corning collaborators.
Communities 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 58 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Our people show their concern and  
compassion where they live and work. 
Corning is committed to supporting communities 
in every location in which we operate.
Brazil  
Corning employees donated new toys, personal hygiene items, new clothes, and shoes for 35 children living in a shelter in 
Brazil. Adding to the holiday cheer, the children enjoyed lunch and a visit from Santa Claus.A GLOBAL COMMITMENT 
Chinese mainland  
One hour. Eight teams. Two thousand 
pieces of garbage, weighing 
more than 1,500 kilograms. T o 
demonstrate Corning's commitment 
to environmental sustainability, 124 
Corning China volunteers came to  
Luchao Port in Shanghai for the 
Corning UNITY Coastal Cleanup. The 
event aimed to reduce the plastic 
pollution in the East China Sea in 
honor of World Environment Day and 
World Ocean Day. 
Since 2006, more than 1,000 
employees from Corning China have 
stepped up to sponsor one year of 
tuition for students in need from 
Yingjing County in Sichuan Province. 
By the end of 2021, their support  had helped more than 2,000 children 
access education. 
Corning China encourages the 
development of today’s students 
through its Corning Future Innovators 
program. Partnering with more than 
250 universities across the country, 
the program includes online training, 
workshops, and competition sessions 
where students can pitch ideas to 
address the world’s most pressing 
challenges. Corning employees 
volunteer their time as mentors to 
students and serve as judges of 
competitive sessions. Since 2018, 
more than 6,000 students have 
participated in the program, yielding 
nearly 700 innovative proposals. 
Inspiring Interest among Students in Flow and 
Advanced-Flow Reactor T echnology 
In June 2021, we announced the establishment of 
the Corning Advanced-Flow T echnology Academy 
in Changzhou, China, to deliver leading-edge, 
interactive live training on Corning’s flow chemistry 
education platform, Corning Nebula™ Education 
Kits . The Academy will provide a live lecture series 
and in-person lab practice sessions in a classroom 
environment, while also showcasing the unlimited 
possibilities flow chemistry can enable today and in 
the future."Our new academy will further our efforts and 
investment in helping the next generation of 
students realize the value of flow chemistry and 
AFR technology, which has become one of the 
most important technologies in the chemical, 
pharmaceutical, and new materials industries.” 
- Dr . Yi Jiang  
 President and General Manager,  
 Corning Advanced-Flow Reactor T echnology
Communities 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 59 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022France  
Employees donated more than 
400 pounds of gently used toys to 
a local organization that cleans and 
resells them at low prices to support 
local employment opportunities. 
Employees also collected eyeglasses 
and donated them to the nonprofit 
organization Lunettes Sans 
Frontières (Glasses Without Borders). 
Germany
Employees volunteered with a 
number of nonprofit organizations, 
including a local soup kitchen to 
serve food and the Red Cross to 
paint a facility providing shelter for 
refugees. Employees also helped  
to plant fruit trees and establish  
an “insect hotel” to enhance  
local ecosystems. Israel
Employees donated blood to Israel's 
national emergency medical, disaster, 
ambulance, and blood bank service.
India
When a surge of COVID-19 cases hit 
India in 2021, millions were impacted 
in communities near Corning’s 
areas of operation in Pune and 
Gurgaon. T o support the urgent 
needs front-line professionals, 
Corning India donated infrared 
thermometers, pulse oximeters, 
and PPE kits to public health 
centers. In addition, the Corning 
Foundation provided a $40,000 
grant to Sustainable Environment 
and Ecological Society (SEEDS) 
through Give2Asia, a U.S. based 
charitable organization. The funding 
helped provide face masks, PPE 
kits, beds, blankets, and other critical 
medical equipment in India.  Mexico
T o help support cancer patients in 
local low-resource public hospitals, 
Corning Optical Communications 
Reynosa employees teamed up with 
No Border Angels to donate 180 
personal hygiene kits. 
Poland
Employees volunteered to clean up a 
local forest and river-beach area and 
held a virtual auction with handmade 
gifts and art to raise funds for people 
in need. 
“Helping People. Saving Gorillas.” 
For over a decade, our support has 
helped enable high-impact results 
for wild gorillas, their ecosystems, 
and the communities of people who 
reside near them in Rwanda and 
the Democratic Republic of Congo. 
Corning Gorilla Glass supports 
the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund 
International's holistic conservation 
model, which includes daily protection 
of gorillas, scientific research on 
gorillas and their ecosystems, 
educating the next generation of 
scientists and conservationists in 
Africa, and helping local people 
by addressing basic needs of 
communities through food security, 
livelihood, and education programs. Rwanda and the Democratic  
Republic of Congo  
T aiwan  
The Corning Future Innovators 
Program was initiated in Taiwan to 
inspire the next generation of glass 
and materials scientists. Since the 
program launched in 2015, more 
than 5,200 students and college 
professors have participated and 
submitted more than 1,600 creative 
proposals and research papers. In 
2021, the seventh annual competition 
focused on the theme of “2030 
Sustainable New Generation,” and 
attracted nearly 300 contest entries 
targeting specific UN Sustainable 
Development Goals.
Turkey
Employees from the Corning Optical 
Communications plant in Gebze, 
Turkey, rebuilt a kindergarten 
classroom and donated clothes, 
furniture, and school supplies. 
Employees also volunteered with a 
local environmental organization to 
clean up the local coast in Istanbul.
Communities 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 60 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Photo courtesy of Corning  
employee Tyler Burns
Governance
IN THIS SECTION:
 Corporate Governance  
 Ethical Business Practices and Compliance  
 Responsible Supply Chain
 Enterprise Risk Management  
 Data Security and Privacy
 Public Policy and Corporate  
 Political Contributions 
 Intellectual Property Protection  Acting with integrity is key to earning the respect and 
trust of our stakeholders. Strong corporate governance 
helps us safeguard our assets, act ethically, and deliver on our 
commitments responsibly. 
Strong corporate governance is the cornerstone that supports our 
success. We continually work to maintain effective governance, 
appropriate oversight, and clear accountability across all aspects 
of our business, including sustainability. 
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 61 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Responsibility for our long-term 
success rests with Corning’s Board 
of Directors, which has ultimate 
oversight of our enterprise. The 
Board helps to ensure that Corning 
remains focused on our strategic 
priorities and that our actions reflect 
our Values. 
Beyond Board oversight, 
corporate governance at Corning 
includes an integrated system of 
processes, policies, and standards, 
all underpinned by our Values. 
For example, the Corporate 
Responsibility and Sustainability 
Committee oversees our 
commitment to sustainability. 
See more information and resources 
related to corporate governance  on 
our website.
A Well-Qualified and  
Diverse Board 
Our Board members drive growth 
through their expertise, engagement, 
and oversight.
Corning’s Board of Directors 
comprises accomplished 
professionals with a diverse range of 
backgrounds, education, professional 
experiences, and areas of expertise. 
Diversity of gender, age, and 
ethnicity also contributes to the wide 
range of knowledge and opinions 
represented on our Board. As a 
global leader in materials science, 
we also benefit from four directors 
who hold doctorates in science, 
technology, or mathematics. 
As of Dec. 31, 2021, the Corning 
Board of Directors consisted 
of 15 directors, 14 of whom are 
independent based on NYSE rules 
for director independence. This 
helps to ensure that directors do not have conflicts of interests that would 
compromise their ability to provide 
impartial guidance to the company’s 
leadership. In 2021, two new directors 
joined the Corning Board: Pamela 
J. Craig and Roger W. Ferguson Jr. 
Currently, four of our directors  
are women and three are  
ethnically diverse. 
Communicating with 
Shareholders 
Our Board follows the principles 
embodied in the Shareholder-
Director Exchange (SDX) Protocol 
as a guide for effective, mutually 
beneficial engagement between 
shareholders and directors. We also 
align our practices with the Investor 
Stewardship Group’s framework of 
stewardship principles for institutional 
investors, as well as its corporate 
governance principles for U.S.  
listed companies.
Corning is a member of 
The Board Challenge, an 
initiative to increase 
diversity among boards 
of directors for U.S. 
companies. As a Charter 
Pledge Partner , we pledge 
to use our resources to 
accelerate change, drive 
visibility, and encourage 
other companies to 
increase the diversity  
of their boards. CORPORA TE GOVERNANCEGovernance
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 62 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 202295%82%GOAL:  All Corning employees will understand Corning’s Code of Conduct , 
including how to report allegations of ethical or legal misconduct.
As part of our plans for 2022, we are implementing a 
rewritten and redesigned Code of Conduct that we 
believe will help to raise these scores for 2022.
Employees who responded 
to the 2021 Voice to Action 
Survey indicating that they 
understand our CodeEmployees who responded 
to the 2021 Voice to Action 
Survey indicating that they 
know how to report violations
Corning analyzes our reporting data to provide insight 
on trends, training needs, policy update requirements, 
and continuous improvement opportunities.
In 2021, we received a total of 105 reports alleging 
possible violations of Corning’s Code of Conduct and/
or noncompliance with laws or regulations through 
all of our reporting mechanisms globally, of which 
37 were substantiated with appropriate corrective 
actions taken. More Corning Code of Conduct 
reporting data for 2021 can be found here . Corning adheres to the highest 
standards of integrity in all our 
business transactions.
Ethical behavior earns the trust 
of our customers, protects our 
business, and aligns with our Values. 
T o maintain a culture of integrity at 
Corning, our Compliance Council 
oversees a centralized compliance 
program that aligns with regulator 
expectations and industry  
best practices. 
The goal of our compliance program 
is to help ensure we operate 
according to the highest standards of 
ethical conduct and compliance with 
laws and regulations that govern our 
business and industry. We embrace 
ethics and transparency across many 
dimensions, from the way we treat 
our employees and customers, to our 
focus on human rights and equity, to 
our partnerships with suppliers. 
Corning’s senior management has 
adopted a Code of Conduct for all 
Reporting Violations
Corning’s Code of Conduct and Whistleblower Policy  provide 
details on how to report allegations of possible ethical or legal 
misconduct to Corning, including through Corning’s third‑party 
Code of Conduct  reporting portal or via its toll-free hotline. 
This portal allows employees and those outside of Corning to 
confidentially and anonymously report alleged misconduct in 
their local language.
Leaders of Corning’s Compliance Program investigate all 
reports of possible violations of Corning’s Code of Conduct and 
periodically update the Board of Directors Audit Committee on 
all cases. Corning does not retaliate against employees or others 
who have brought forward concerns in good faith. ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES AND COMPLIANCE 
employees that sets out the legal 
and ethical standards applicable to all 
employees. All employees  
receive training on Corning’s  
Code of Conduct, and we  
reinforce its standards through 
ongoing employee communications 
and certifications. We also have 
codes of conduct for our directors, 
executive officers, CEO, and financial 
executives. 
Corning maintains a robust 
compliance program in support 
of our Code of Conduct, which 
strictly prohibits discrimination 
and harassment. When we receive 
allegations of such conduct  
involving our workforce, we  
promptly investigate, hold  
offenders accountable, and 
remediate the situation.
Failure to comply with the Code 
of Conduct, Corning policies, 
or applicable laws can result in 
disciplinary action up to and including 
termination of employment. 
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 63 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption,  
and Anti-Competitive Behavior
As outlined in our Code of Conduct, 
we are committed to doing business 
the right way, and we do not tolerate 
any form of bribery, corruption, 
or anti-competitive behavior. Our 
policies mandate strict compliance 
among our employees and suppliers 
with all applicable anti-corruption 
laws, even if that conflicts with local 
customs or practices. 
T o ensure compliance with anti-
corruption laws, such as the U.S. 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and 
the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, we 
have developed an anti-corruption 
compliance program, including 
policies, training, due diligence 
for third parties, and periodic risk 
assessments. This training is required 
to be completed by all salaried 
employees and refreshed on a 
periodic basis.No material incidents of corruption or anti-
competitive behavior were confirmed and no 
legal actions for anti-competitive behavior , 
antitrust, or monopoly practices were fully  
and finally decided against Corning in 2021.In 2021:
Environmental Compliance 
Through compliance programs, Corning ensures we  
comply with local, state, national, and federal environmental  
regulations. Specific functional areas, such as Global Environment  
and Sustainability, as well as trained environmental professionals  
at the corporate, division, and facility levels, are responsible for  
maintaining compliance.
In 2021, Corning did not receive any significant fines or  
non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with  
environmental laws and/ or regulations.Corning employees completed  
anti-bribery training 
Corning employees completed 
antitrust trainingNearly  
3,500
More than  
8,500Nearly  
5,700
Corning employees certified their 
compliance with anti-corruption and 
antitrust policies, laws, and regulations 
© Christopher Payne / Esto
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 64 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 202240%29%27%4%
The scope of our supply chain presents the opportunity to drive significant positive change, but also 
represents risk; using data from the global amfori Business Social Compliance Initiative, we determined 
that 21% of our raw materials suppliers in 2021 are located in, and 15.5% of our raw materials purchases 
originate in, high-risk countries.North America EMEA Asia Pacific Latin AmericaWe’re committed to a supply chain that reflects our Values and drives  
positive social, environmental, and economic impact. 
Our Approach  
From the sourcing of raw minerals to suppliers’ treatment of their employees, the 
impacts of our purchases reverberate in communities around the world. We rely on 
17 ,940 suppliers across 72 countries, including 1,200 Tier 1 production suppliers. 
Increasing our Work with Local Suppliers  
Corning locations around the world prioritize purchasing from local suppliers. This practice benefits the environment 
by reducing transportation-related carbon emissions. It also helps strengthen supply chain resiliency and oversight and 
foster lasting, trust-based supplier relationships. In 2021, 72.7% of our total global purchases were from suppliers located 
in the same country as the purchasing Corning operation.
We seek to mitigate risks and strengthen sustainability in our supply chain in three areas:RESPONSIBLE SUPPL Y CHAIN 
Environment
We strive to 
use sustainable 
procurement,  
eco-friendly products, 
and suppliers that 
reduce their carbon 
footprints and other 
environmental impacts.Social
We uphold human rights; 
responsible sourcing 
of materials from 
diverse, small, and local 
suppliers; and worker 
health and safety.Governance
We conduct our 
business eithically and in 
compliance with all laws 
and regulations, and we 
expect our suppliers to 
do the same.SUPPL Y CHAIN PURCHASES BY REGION 
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 65 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022The Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee of our 
Board of Directors has ultimate 
oversight of policies impacting our 
supply chain. 
All Corning suppliers are expected 
to demonstrate ethical, social, 
and environmental responsibility, 
as outlined in our Supplier Code 
of Conduct and Human Rights 
Policy. Our Supplier Code of 
Conduct embraces the International 
Labour Organization’s Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work. It also requires that 
suppliers comply with environmental 
regulations and reduce their negative 
impacts on the environment. In 2021, 
we updated our Supplier Code to 
include expanded environmental 
criteria on pollution prevention and 
resource reduction, solid waste, 
air emissions, water management, 
energy consumption, and GHG 
emissions. We also developed a 
Supply Chain Social Responsibility 
eLearning program, which was 
completed by over 300 suppliers.
We gather real-time information on 
relevant supplier activity through 
a supply chain risk management 
platform and use a supply chain 
risk‑profile‑rating solution to assess 
supply chain risk, track events, and 
screen prospective suppliers. We use 
a supply chain incident management 
platform to collaborate across 
Corning to quickly resolve issues.In alignment with Corning’s commitment to continuous improvement, we 
proactively work with suppliers to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of 
corrective actions. Corning has seen significant improvement in total corporate 
social responsibility (CSR) audit scores (including in the area of human rights), 
increasing from an initial average of 48 out of 200 to an average of 134 out of 
200 in 2021. While we have made great progress in responding to CSR risks and 
impacts, we do not feel we have achieved a satisfactory score with all suppliers. 
Therefore, efforts continue to identify and act on opportunities for improvement. 
Learn more about our supplier management process , risks we have identified,  
and how we are working with our suppliers to mitigate them. Mitigating Supply Chain Risk
Corning takes steps to evaluate, assess, and verify potential risks in our  
supply chain through our supplier selection, onboarding, and ongoing 
management processes.
Screening:  All prospective suppliers are screened to identify potential  
risks and ensure alignment with Corning’s standards, including those  
related to ESG. 
Selection and Onboarding:  All new suppliers are assessed using 
onboarding criteria. In 2022, we will add more than 40 sustainability-
related questions to our onboarding assessment. 
Performance Management and Improvement:  We use supplier 
scorecards, assessments, on-site audits, supply chain risk-monitoring 
solutions, and quarterly business reviews to monitor and improve supplier 
performance. In 2021, Corning conducted Corporate Social Responsibility 
training, including awareness training on forced labor/slavery and human 
rights/trafficking, for more than 300 suppliers and will continue to expand 
training in 2022. 
Corrective Actions and Constructive Engagement:  We work with 
our suppliers to meet expectations. This not only benefits our company, 
but also improves working conditions for the employees of our suppliers, 
protects the environment, and builds a stronger pool of suppliers for our 
entire industry.
2020 2021
Supplier Assessment and Audits T otal % T otal %
Supplier Performance Assessments  
(including sustainability)821 610
Suppliers screened by Riskmethods 9266 9322
New suppliers screened by Riskmethods New in 2021 100
Tier 2 suppliers screened by Riskmethods New in 2021 200
Tier 1 supplier facilities audited in the RBA 
Validated Audit Process or equivalent9% 8%
… thereof high-risk facilities audited 15 93%*12 100%
*One facility could not be audited as planned due to COVID-19 impacts. 
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 66 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Responsible Sourcing
As a global technology company, Corning manufactures advanced industrial 
products, some of which contain small amounts of mineral precursors of 
the metals tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG), which are found in small 
amounts in many electronic products. Known as conflict minerals, these 
materials may originate from mines in regions where armed conflict is present. 
Corning is committed to the ethical sourcing of these minerals. We strictly 
prohibit any connection between the materials used in Corning products and 
armed violence or human rights abuse. We expect our suppliers, and, in turn, 
their suppliers, to do the same. 
Corning enforces this position through our Responsible Minerals Policy and 
due-diligence framework, which we broadened in 2021 to include all minerals, 
including cobalt, from conflict ‑affected, high‑risk areas. Beyond conflict 
minerals, Corning has an ongoing Responsible Mining Initiative (RMI) covering 
all minerals with a goal of having 100% of high‑risk suppliers in this area certified 
by independent organizations as socially responsible by 2025. Our definition of 
“high-risk” suppliers includes our Tier 1 suppliers of mined materials as well as 
their supply networks, which we trace back to the mine.
T o strengthen our ability to rely on only ethical sources, Corning joined The 
Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance (IRMA) and remains an active 
member of the RMI, a global organization focused on responsible mineral-
sourcing issues. Through the RMI, we collaborate with industry peers on best 
practices and access resources. We require supplier compliance with the RMI 
process, which includes an independent third-party audit process of smelters 
and refiners. We monitor supplier performance via RMI’s conflict minerals 
reporting template. When needed, we request corrective action, which may 
include removing smelters from our supply chain. We work collaboratively with 
our suppliers to help remedy corrective actions.  
F or more information, read our Responsible Minerals Policy .Supplier Diversity  
Diversity is an integral part of 
Corning’s value system and a critical 
business initiative. We understand 
the value a diverse supply chain can 
bring to innovation and productivity, 
and we are committed to providing 
access to all suppliers and to 
promoting diversity in our  
supply chain.
We engage with organizations 
including the National LGBT 
Chamber of Commerce, the National 
Minority Supplier Development 
Council, and the Women’s Business 
Enterprise National Council to 
expand our network of diverse 
suppliers. In 2021, we worked with 
695 diverse suppliers in the  
United States.
Corning was named a National 
Business Inclusion Consortium 
“Best-of-the-Best 
Corporation for Inclusion”  
for the sixth consecutive year.  2020 2021
Audit Results and Corrective Action T otal Rate Number Rate
Priority non‑ conformances identified 36 1.1 33 1.1
Other non‑ conformances identified 448 12.4 262 8.7
Corrective action agreed/completed for 
priority non-conformances 
(% completed and closed the same year)36100%  
(22%)33100%  
(38%)
Corrective action agreed/completed for 
other non-conformances
(% completed and closed the same year)448100%  
(60%)262100%  
(55%)
SASB: TC‑HW‑430a.1, TC‑HW‑430a.2
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 67 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Corning has integrated 
environmental-, social-, and 
governance-related risks into 
our risk-management process. 
In doing so, we follow guidance 
provided by the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission and the World 
Business Council for Sustainable 
Development. Starting in 2021, we 
also leveraged the framework of 
the Task Force for Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures to assess 
and report on climate risks and 
opportunities risk for Corning.
We also identify and prioritize 
salient human rights considerations 
throughout our entire supply chain 
as part of our risk-management 
process. We leverage supply chain ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
Sustainability-related issues are embedded in our  
risk-management process.
While the chief executive officer and other  
members of our Senior Leadership T eam are  
responsible for the day-to-day management  
of risk, our Board is responsible for oversight  
of the company’s risk ‑management  
program. The Board exercises this  
oversight responsibility directly  
through its committees.  
risk-management software to assess 
risks associated with suppliers 
and our own operations and have 
identified that the greatest potential 
for human rights impacts is within 
our supply chain. We are working to 
mitigate and prevent this risk through 
proactive actions. Learn more in the 
Human Rights section on page 49 .
In 2021, we conducted an in-depth 
scenario analysis to assess the 
potential impact on our business of 
climate-related risks and  
opportunities. ( See page 74 ).  
Following the assessment, we  
added our top climate-related  
risks to our Enterprise Risk  
Management process. Learn more about Corning's risk-management aproach in our 2022 Proxy Statement . Corning Risk  
Management  
Structure
Board of Directors
Management and Risk CouncilCompensation  
Committee
Corporate 
Responsibility 
and Sustainability 
CommitteeFinance  
Committee
Nominating and 
Corporate Governance 
CommitteeAudit  
Committee
Information 
T echnology  
Committee
Integrating Sustainability-Related Risks
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 68 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Protecting data is essential to trusted 
relationships, and we are committed 
to diligently safeguarding information 
entrusted to us.
Safeguarding data, particularly 
personally identifiable information, 
mitigates risks such as costly 
incidents, reputational harm, and 
regulatory penalties. 
 
The Corning Data Privacy Office 
facilitates global protection of 
personal data through:  
Policies and Procedures  
Employee Training  
A Program to Monitor 
Compliance with Data 
Protection Standards  
Our Information T echnology 
Committee assists the Board in 
its oversight of the company’s 
information technology and 
digitalization strategy and  
significant investments to support 
this strategy. This committee also 
oversees issues and potential risks 
related to information technology 
systems, data integrity and 
protection, business continuity,  
and cybersecurity.DA T A SECURITY AND PRIV ACY
Protecting Personal Data 
Our Privacy Policy establishes 
policies and procedures with uniform 
standards for how the company 
processes personal data. This 
includes a set of Binding Corporate 
Rules  to protect personal data when 
transferred within Corning. 
Protecting the privacy of personal 
and business data within our supplier 
network is a key priority at Corning. 
All suppliers we engage are required 
to adhere to our Binding Corporate 
Rules and Global Data Protection 
Policy . In addition, in response to 
the EU Court of Justice’s ruling to 
invalidate the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield 
Framework, Corning is instituting 
new standard contractual clauses 
with all impacted suppliers, and will 
continue to evaluate our international 
data transfers, ensuring compliance 
with the EU General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR). For more 
information, see our Data Privacy 
Supplier Program Overview . 
Examples of the practices we follow 
to help ensure the integrity of our 
data-protection processes include: 
• Collecting and using the minimum 
amount of personal data 
necessary to achieve our business 
purposes
•  Sharing personal data only with 
individuals who have a legitimate 
need for it and who will protect it
•  Maintaining appropriate 
administrative, technical, and 
organizational security measures 
to protect personal data
•  Conducting vendor assessments 
to review third-party applications 
and technologies that contain 
personal and sensitive data•  Monitoring technical and 
organizational measures to 
safeguard the data through 
appropriate user access 
management, lawfulness of 
processing, secure file transfers,  
and consent management
We require all employees to  
take privacy training. We also host  
ongoing employee awareness  
events and campaigns on topics  
such as ransomware, identity theft,  
and mobile security, and conduct 
phishing exercises to help strengthen 
employee resiliency against  
cyber threats. 
In 2021, there were no known 
substantiated complaints received 
concerning breaches of customer 
privacy. This includes complaints 
received from outside parties and 
regulatory bodies. In addition, we 
have had no reported leaks, thefts,  
or losses of customer personal data. 
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 69 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022The public policy and legislative 
processes have an important  
impact on Corning’s business 
activities and our ability to invent, 
develop, and deliver life-changing 
inventions to people around the 
world. In conducting our government 
affairs program, Corning is 
committed to ensuring its public 
policy engagement meets high 
ethical standards, is aligned with  
our corporate interests and Values, 
and is conducted in full compliance 
with applicable laws and  
corporate policies. 
Public Policy Advocacy and 
Lobbying 
Corning engages with officials in the 
legislative and executive branches 
at all levels of government on issues 
of importance to the company 
and our stakeholders. Our Global 
Government Affairs organization 
is responsible for overseeing all 
advocacy activities. We disclose 
lobbying activities and expenditures 
as required by applicable federal, 
state, and local laws. For links to 
these and other lobbying disclosure 
statements, visit our website .
Outside the United States, Corning 
has implemented internal policies 
on compliance with all applicable 
laws and regulations in countries 
where relevant interactions with 
government officials occur,  
including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act. PUBLIC POLICY AND CORPORA TE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 
Political Contributions 
Corning’s Global Government Affairs 
organization has authority to make 
decisions on behalf of the company 
regarding political contributions to 
non-federal candidates and other 
non-federal political entities where 
permitted by law. Such decisions are 
made in consultation with Corning’s 
internal and/or external legal counsel. 
Corning’s political contributions are 
made without regard for the  
personal political preferences of  
our employees. 
Where permissible under state 
and local law, and consistent with 
the company’s interests, Corning 
makes contributions to non-federal 
candidates (e.g., candidates to state 
offices), and may make contributions 
to non-federal political committees, 
non-federal parties, and other non-
federal political organizations that 
register and report to the Internal 
Revenue Service under Section 527 
of the Internal Revenue Code.
On a semiannual basis, we disclose 
non-federal political contributions   
(as described above) that exceed 
$1,000 during a calendar year.
Corning Employees Political 
Action Committee (COREP AC)
Corning administers a voluntary U.S. 
employee-funded political action 
committee, COREPAC, through 
which employees can participate 
in the political process by making 
contributions to federal and state 
political candidates and committees. 
COREPAC supports candidates from 
both parties and decisions  
regarding who the PAC supports are 
made with Corning’s best interests 
in mind and without regard for the 
personal political preferences  of our employees. A separate  
nonpartisan Contributions  
Committee, consisting of  
employees representing Corning’s 
businesses and staff functions, 
is responsible for approving all 
COREPAC contributions.
COREPAC receipts and 
disbursements are reported in detail, 
as required by law, to the Federal 
Election Commission. Such reports 
are publicly available at www.fec.gov .
Participation in Trade 
Organizations
Corning participates in trade 
associations, chambers of commerce, 
and other organizations that 
collectively promote the interest 
of their respective members. 
Among the many activities that 
these organizations conduct, such 
as establishing industry standards 
and hosting trade shows, such 
organizations also enable members 
to collectively inform legislators, 
executive branch officials, and their 
staffs about industry positions on 
particular laws, policies, or proposals.
Corning is a member of various 
associations, including the Business 
Roundtable, the National Foreign 
Trade Council, and the National 
Association of Manufacturers. 
Corning publishes a semiannual 
list of dues and membership fees 
to tax ‑exempt 501(c)(4) social 
welfare organizations or 501(c)(6) 
trade associations or chambers of 
commerce that exceed $40,000, 
which will include the portion  
of any such dues/fees that  
are tax-deductible.
 
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 70 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Intellectual property protects Corning’s ability to provide our customers with advanced products and technology, which in 
turn sustain Corning’s endeavors to achieve further advancements.
Corning’s ability to deliver value to our customers stems from our many unique discoveries, which we staunchly protect. 
Inventions by members of Corning’s research and development staff fuel our growth and cement our role as a global 
materials science leader in specialized market segments. We advocate for and defend the intellectual property of Corning 
and respect that of others, including intellectual property of the industry groups and entities with which we do business.
Corning advances sustainable practices worldwide by disclosing green and energy‑ efficient technology in patents, such 
as for diesel and gasoline particulate filters and our energy‑ efficient furnaces. The world learns from information we 
disclose, while Corning financially sustains our research investment with patent rights to exclude others from making, 
using, selling, offering to sell, and importing the technology for a limited time.
Our proactive approach to protecting our intellectual property also promotes social sustainability, helping Corning to 
operate genially with others in our industry. Covering our unique discoveries through the patent process defines and 
communicates Corning’s rights of exclusivity and discourages ownership conflicts.
Going forward, we will continue to 
develop and patent technologies that 
use more sustainable resources, consume 
less energy, help clean and protect the 
environment, and require less harmful 
constituent materials. We will embed our 
sustainability approach into the research 
and development process.environmental technology patents 
worldwide since 1970
new patents in the U.S. in 2021
new patents in countries outside  
the U.S. in 2021
unexpired U.S. patents
unexpired patents in countries  
outside the U.S.
*Data for Corning and its wholly owned subsidiaries in various countriesINTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION
Continuing Our Legacy of Innovation*
1,000+ 
1,600+ 
4,250+ 
7 ,500+ 400+
Governance 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 71 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Photo courtesy of Corning  
employee Yanjiao Cao
Appendix
IN THIS SECTION:
 Hemlock Semiconductor
 TCFD
 GRI
 SASB  
Appendix 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 72 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022In 2020, Corning Incorporated's stake in Hemlock Semiconductor increased to 80.5%. Although Hemlock’s governance is 
independent of Corning, its product set is an important part of our overall portfolio and its energy needs are a significant 
fraction of Corning’s global energy use, as noted below.5 
For more information, please visit Hemlock Semiconductor Operations, LLC .
About Hemlock Semiconductor  
Hemlock Semiconductor Operations (HSC), which has 
been operating since 1961, is a leading provider of hyper-
pure polycrystalline silicon and other silicon-based products 
used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices and solar 
cells. Headquartered in Hemlock, Michigan, HSC employs 
approximately 1,200 employees. As the raw material used to create 
semiconductors, polysilicon is a key building block of what makes 
“smart” appliances smart, from phones to home appliances, to 
vehicles, buildings, and manufacturing equipment. In solar cells, 
HSC’s polysilicon enables high efficiency and clean conversion 
of solar energy into electricity, created with one of the smallest 
carbon footprints for solar polysilicon on the planet.Hemlock Semiconductor
HSC focuses on the following areas in 
its ongoing efforts to make its business 
operations more sustainable6:
• Environmental stewardship
• Social responsibility
•  Governance & leadership
•  Innovation
Making Solar Panels More Sustainable 
HSC is driving continuous improvement to make the world’s supply of polysilicon more sustainable. Through ongoing 
investments in energy efficiency, HSC has reduced its greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity by 5% since 2015. HSC is 
continually working with its suppliers and customers as partners to reduce supply chain carbon emissions. HSC founded 
the Ultra-Low Carbon Solar Alliance, consisting of manufacturers across the solar supply chain, with a focus on reducing 
embodied carbon across the entire solar supply chain. The Alliance is working to raise awareness of more sustainably 
produced solar products and is developing a Type I low-carbon solar ecolabel to further drive demand.
HSC Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (revised version). 
HSC uses EPA emission factors for Scope 1 calculations and EPA eGRID RFCM data for Scope 2 calculations. 
5  HSC data are not consolidated in this report with Corning’s global data.
6  https:/ /www.hscpoly.com/documents/2020_Hemlock ‑Sustainability‑Report.pdf20191.1
0.7 0.7
2020 2021EMISSIONS
MILLIONS OF METRIC TONS CO2e
(Scope 1 /2), rounded
2019 2020 2021ENERGY USE*
TERAWATT-HOURS (TWh), rounded 
2.4
1.61.8
Appendix ‑ Hemlock Semiconductor 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 73 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022TCFD Disclosure
GOVERNANCE
Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.
Recommended 
Disclosure Disclosure More Information
G1 Describe the 
board’s oversight of 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities.Corning's Board of Directors includes a Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee (CRASC), whose responsibilities include assisting the 
Board in reviewing the company’s management strategies, plans, policies, and 
actions related to our sustainability program and environmental responsibilities. 
This review includes sustainability goals, environmental and social policies and 
practices, energy and water management strategies, and climate-related risks 
and opportunities, among other focus areas. 
Prior to 2021, the predecessor committee to CRASC annually received two 
principal reports addressing Corning’s climate‑related risks and opportunities:
Corning’s director, Sustainability, presented an update on sustainability, 
including a dashboard indicating the implementation and performance against 
objectives for all sustainability- and climate-related goals. 
Additionally, the director of Global Environment and Sustainability, who has 
the responsibility to track and report on greenhouse gas emissions, energy, 
water, and waste, presented an overview of strategies and actions to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions and to enhance Corning’s sustainable impact. 
The director of Global Environment and Sustainability reports to Corning’s 
senior vice president and chief engineer and is also a member of Corning’s 
Sustainability Working Committee described below in answer G2.
During 2021, the Board increased its focus on climate-related topics. 
The CRASC’s charter explicitly includes sustainability, as reflected in the 
committee’s new name. The reports described above continued and climate 
change-related activity was discussed at each CRASC meeting, starting 
in April. The CRASC typically meets five times each year. Also, in October, 
CRASC reviewed Corning’s new goals for greenhouse gas emission reduction 
and the Board approved the creation and filling of a new position: vice 
president, Sustainability and Climate Initiatives. The director, Sustainability, 
referred to above, reports to the vice president, Sustainability and Climate 
Initiatives, and chairs the Sustainability Working and Steering Committees 
described below in answer G2. In October, the CRASC reviewed the climate-
related risks and opportunities and details of the two scenarios used in 
Corning’s first formal scenario analysis (see S1, below). In February 2022, the 
CRASC reviewed answers to the 11 TCFD questions to be published in Corning’s 
Sustainability Report in the spring of 2022.
In these discussions, CRASC members provide feedback on the material 
presented.
In addition to the CRASC work described above, the top risks to the 
corporation, including climate-related risk, are reviewed annually by the 
director, Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) with the Audit and Finance 
Committees of the Board. 2021 CDP response ,  
1.1a and 1.1b
Corporate Responsibility 
and Sustainability 
Committee Charter
Appendix — TCFD 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 74 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Recommended 
Disclosure Disclosure More Information
G2 Describe 
management’s role 
in assessing and 
managing climate-
related risks and 
opportunities.Corning has had two principal managerial oversight bodies for climate change 
issues, including assessing risks and opportunities: the Sustainability Working 
Committee (SWC) and Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC). Both 
committees are chaired by Corning’s director, Sustainability.
Corning’s SSC comprises executives from multiple functional areas and the 
SSC has the responsibility to sponsor and steer the SWC, including review and 
approval of overall work efforts. The Corning SWC is a cross-functional and 
cross-organizational committee that meets monthly and proposes strategic  and 
tactical sustainability and climate-related work efforts to the SSC for review 
and approval. The SSC meets quarterly, or more frequently as important 
matters arise. The members of the SSC were selected to represent each of  
Corning’s relevant management areas in relation to overall sustainability, which 
includes the assessment of climate-related risks and opportunities. The positions  
of the SSC members and their climate-related responsibilities are as follows: 
 •Vice President, Sustainability and Climate Initiatives: Responsible for 
overseeing overall company sustainability initiatives with a specific focus on 
climate initiatives. 
 •Chief Strategy Officer: Responsible for overseeing overall company strategy  
and connection of strategy to climate-related risks and opportunities. 
 •Senior Vice President, Human Resources: Responsible for overseeing 
employee rights, compensation and benefits, labor practices, and human 
rights policies. 
 •Chief Supply Chain Officer: Responsible for overseeing sourcing and 
procurement of supplier and vendor services as well as climate-related and 
human rights issues in the supply chain. 
 •Chief T echnology Officer: Responsible for managing Corning’s innovation 
portfolio and creating new growth drivers for the company, including 
climate-related opportunities. 
 •Chief Engineer: Responsible for managing the corporate Manufacturing, 
T echnology, and Engineering organization, which includes Global 
Environment and Sustainability and Global Energy Management.
 •Vice President, Investor Relations: Responsible for communicating our 
sustainability strategy, including climate-related issues, to investors, and 
understanding and analyzing sustainable investing funds’ priorities and 
expectations. 
 •Vice President and Corporate Secretary: Responsible for ensuring that 
corporate governance is addressed appropriately in Corning's sustainability 
program. 
 •Senior Vice President & Corporate Controller: Responsible for managing 
corporate accounting, compliance, and external reporting functions. 
 • Vice President, Corporate Communications: Responsible for managing 
the communication of our sustainability strategy and other climate-related 
topics to our stakeholders. 
 • Vice President, Manufacturing: Responsible for ensuring our sustainability 
strategy is reflected and incorporated into our manufacturing operations. 
 • Vice President, Finance, Analysis and Insight: Responsible for managing our 
Enterprise Risk Management program, which includes climate-related risks.
In 2021, Corning enhanced its managerial roles related to climate change. 
During the year, each Market-Access Platform (MAP) (see answer S1 for a 
description), appointed a leader for Sustainability. Corning also established 
the Global Sustainability and Climate Initiatives (GSCI) group, led by the 
vice president, Sustainability and Climate Initiatives. T ogether, the MAP 
Sustainability leaders and GSCI meet on a regular basis (monthly or more 
frequently) to manage sustainability issues, including those related to climate-
related risks and opportunities. In addition, the vice president, Sustainability 
and Climate Initiatives, is a member of the Sustainability Steering Committee, 
and the MAP Sustainability leaders are each members of the Sustainability 
Working Committee (each committee is described above). With the additional 
managerial positions, Corning expects to review the structures it uses to 
manage climate-related risks and opportunities in 2022.2021 CDP response , 1.2a
Appendix — TCFD 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 75 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022STRA TEGY
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s 
businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material.
Recommended 
Disclosure Disclosure Outline More Information
S1 Describe the 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities 
the organization has 
identified over the 
short, medium, and 
long term.In early 2021, we completed a survey of several management-level employees 
across our five Market ‑Access Platforms (MAPs) to understand which climate‑
related risks they felt were most relevant to their business units. Corning’s 
MAPs are: Optical Communications, Display, Automotive, Mobile Consumer 
Electronics, and Life Sciences. Using the results of this initial risk assessment, 
Corning’s TCFD Working T eam identified seven climate‑related risks and two 
climate-related opportunities for in-depth scenario analysis to assess the 
potential impact of risks and opportunities to our business under two different 
climate scenarios (see answer S3 for details on scenarios used). The workshop 
was held in fall 2021 and involved 33 management-level employees both from 
across the MAPs and from corporate-level functions. Where possible, using 
Corning’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) impact scale adjusted to a 30‑
year time horizon, we translated climate risks and opportunities into potential 
financial impact to evaluate which risks could have a material financial impact on 
our organization under each scenario.
Below is a table of the risks and opportunities evaluated during the climate risk 
scenario analysis:2021 CDP response , 2.1a, 
2.1b, 2.2
CA TEGORY CLIMA TE-RELA TED RISK AND/OR OPPORTUNITY
Transition RiskPolicy and LegalCarbon pricing and reporting obligations
Mandates on and regulation of existing products  
and services
MarketSustainable supply chain
Changing customer behavior
Reputation Increased stakeholder concern/negative feedback
Physical RiskChronic Sea level rise and droughts
Acute Extreme weather events
OpportunityProducts and ServicesDevelopment of new products or services through  
R&D and innovation
Energy Source Use of lower-emission sources of energy 
Qualitative discussions held between Corning corporate-level management 
and MAP leaders led to initial conclusions about the potential business impact 
of specific risks and opportunities identified in each of the two scenarios. 
The top two risks identified through the scenario analysis process under the 
“Business As Usual” (BAU) scenario were: 1) extreme weather events (medium 
term) and 2) changes in precipitation patterns and extreme variability in 
weather patterns (medium term). Water availability emerged as the highest 
concern for Display, Life Sciences, and Optical Communications MAPs 
(medium term). 
Appendix — TCFD 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 76 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022The top three risks identified under the “1.5‑Degree” (1.5D) scenario were: 1) 
carbon pricing (short and medium terms), 2) changing customer behavior 
(medium term) and 3) sustainable supply chain (medium term). Increased cost 
due to carbon pricing could impact all MAPs; the Life Sciences MAP is already 
experiencing these effects in the European Union. Importantly, Environmental 
T echnologies (within the Automotive MAP), sees the trend toward electric 
vehicles as a potential negative business impact resulting from a reduction in 
the number of combustion vehicles sold annually. Supply chain sustainability 
risk, referring to both limited availability and increased cost, was identified as a 
key risk across business units.
Corning’s top opportunity under the 1.5D scenario is related to low‑ carbon 
products (medium and long terms). All MAPs agree that the identified 
opportunity matches Corning's strengths in innovation and product 
development.
Recommended 
Disclosure Disclosure Outline More Information
S2 Describe the 
impact of climate-
related risks and 
opportunities on 
the organization’s 
businesses, strategy, 
and financial planning.
 In 2021, Corning completed an in-depth scenario analysis to assess the 
potential impact of risks and opportunities to our business under “Business 
As Usual” (BAU) and “1.5‑ degree” (1.5D) scenarios. Where possible, we 
translated climate risks and opportunities into potential financial impact using 
a series of facts and assumptions based on scientific literature, Corning’s 
internal information, and professional judgement. The results of this scenario 
analysis, including each key risk and opportunity, have been shared with the 
Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC), key management personnel and the 
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee (CRASC) to inform 
future business strategy and financial planning.
One example of climate‑related risks and opportunities impacting Corning’s 
business strategy recently is through changing customer behavior. We have 
seen increased demand by customers for renewable energy use in recent 
years, and, in response, we have increased our focus on procuring renewable 
electricity for our operations. This allows us to reduce our own operational 
emissions while also helping our customers reduce their supply-chain 
emissions. 
In addition, we consider local environmental factors, such as availability of fresh 
water, during capital project planning to ensure the long-term sustainability of 
Corning’s long‑lived assets.
Corning’s sustainability strategy and publicly communicated goals were 
developed following a sustainability materiality assessment conducted in 2019 
that determined the 20 most important sustainability topics for Corning and 
our key stakeholders. The sustainability materiality assessment, the material 
sustainability topics, Corning’s publicly communicated goals, and our progress 
to achieve the goals are provided in more detail in our 2020 Sustainability 
Report. We intend to use the results of our scenario analysis in the update 
of our sustainability materiality assessment, which, in turn, will impact our 
sustainability strategy, goals, and financial planning to achieve our goals. 2021 CDP response , 3.3, 
3.4a
2020 Sustainability Report , 
pages 42, 43, 45 and 46
Appendix — TCFD 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 77 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Recommended 
Disclosure Disclosure More Information
S3 Describe the 
resilience of the 
organization’s 
strategy, taking 
into consideration 
different climate-
related scenarios in 
accordance with the 
Paris Agreement, 
including a 2°C or 
lower scenario.In 2021, Corning completed a climate scenario analysis to assess the resilience 
of the organization’s strategy under two potential future state scenarios:
a.  Business as Usual (BAU): We constructed this scenario using transition 
factors from the Current Policies Scenario from IEA’s 2019 World Energy 
Outlook Report, physical factors from IPCC’s draft Sixth Assessment 
Report (AR6) aligned with RCP 8.5, and socioeconomic factors from 
Shared Socioeconomic Pathway‑ 5 (SSP ‑5).
b.  1.5‑Degree (1.5D): We constructed this scenario using transition 
factors from the Sustainable Development Scenario from IEA’s 2019 
World Energy Outlook Report, physical factors from IPCC’s draft Sixth 
Assessment Report (AR6) aligned with RCP 1.9, and socioeconomic 
factors from SSP-1.
Corning constructed these two scenarios to reflect the future states if 
the world continues on its current trajectory (BAU) and if climate action 
successfully limits global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius or less. 
Transition, socioeconomic, and physical factors were included to enable 
Corning to address transition and physical risks and opportunities. This  
process involved evaluating seven climate-related risks and two climate-related 
opportunities over a 30-year time horizon with a group of 33 management-
level employees representing both corporate and MAP functions. 
The results of this analysis show that in a scenario where the world continues 
on the current trajectory (BAU), the greatest risks to Corning’s business are 
related to physical climate events, including chronic changes in precipitation 
patterns and extreme weather events. Corning’s business is geographically 
diversified, which can help reduce the potential impact of extreme weather 
events. 
Under the 1.5D scenario, our analysis revealed that changing customer behavior 
and carbon pricing obligations are anticipated to have the greatest impact to 
our business. We are actively engaging with customers to understand their 
sustainability‑ and climate‑related needs and to find ways to support those 
needs. T o reduce potential risk related to carbon pricing, Corning has set a 
goal to increase the use of renewable energy across our organization to reduce 
our Scope 2 emissions. Additionally, through our Global Energy Management 
program, we implement energy efficiency projects to reduce Scope 1 and 
2 emissions. At this time, there is significant uncertainty about how carbon 
pricing regulations will evolve, and, in the future, Corning may invest in new 
technologies to continue to reduce emissions and lower our carbon pricing-
related financial burden.
See S1 for additional details about which risks were identified as having the 
highest potential impact under each scenario at the MAP level.
Appendix — TCFD 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 78 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022RISK MANAGEMENT
Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks.
Recommended 
Disclosure Disclosure Outline More Information
R1 Describe the 
organization’s 
processes for 
identifying and 
assessing climate-
related risks.Corning’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process is central to determining 
which risks and/or opportunities could have a substantive strategic or 
financial impact on our business. It includes an analysis of many factors that 
include probability and impact of risks, velocity of onset, risk response, and 
effectiveness, as well as other factors. Identified risks, including climate‑related 
risks, are evaluated in a companywide, multidisciplinary effort. Corning's cross-
functional and cross-organizational Sustainability Working Committee (SWC) 
and Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) implemented a sustainability 
materiality assessment, during which carbon emissions and water conservation 
were identified as important sustainability issues. The resulting materiality 
assessment serves as a basis for the mentioned risk evaluation.
More specifically, in 2020, Corning conducted an initial assessment of climate‑
related risks associated with acute and chronic physical risks as well as the four 
transition risks recommended by the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD).2021 CDP response , 2.1b, 2.2 
and 2.2a
R2 Describe the 
organization’s 
processes for 
managing climate-
related risks.Following identification and assessment of climate‑related risks, the top 
climate-related risks and opportunities were added to Corning's ERM process. 
The director of Enterprise Risk Management, in close alignment with the 
director of Sustainability, oversees the climate-related risks in the ERM process. 
T o most effectively allocate responsibility, the process ensures each risk has 
an owner. The owner manages the specific risk leveraging the company's 
ERM, sustainability, and project-management resources and experiences. 
Involvement and alignment with the company's broader risk-management 
resources ensure climate-related risks are being appropriately managed.
R3 Describe how 
processes for 
identifying, assessing, 
and managing 
climate-related risks 
are integrated into the 
organization’s overall 
risk management.Corning’s Board is responsible for oversight of the company’s risk ‑
management program. The Board exercises this oversight responsibility 
directly and through its committees. The Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee (CRASC) monitors risks relating to environmental 
and social matters, which includes climate-related risks, among others, listed 
in detail in the CRASC charter. Risks associated with current business status or 
strategic alternatives are subjected to analysis, discussion, and deliberation by 
management and the Board. Operationally, management reports periodically 
to the Board on the company’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) policies 
and procedures, and to the Audit, Information T echnology, Finance, and 
CRASC committees on our top risks and compliance policies and practices. 
Management also provides a comprehensive annual report of top risks to 
the Board. Corning’s ERM program utilizes 1) a Risk Council chaired by the 
executive vice president and chief financial officer and composed of Corning 
management and staff to aggregate, prioritize, and assess risks, including 
strategic, financial, operational, business, reputational, governance, and 
managerial risks; 2) an internal audit department; and 3) a Compliance Council, 
which reports directly to each of the Audit Committee and CRASC and reviews 
the company’s compliance with laws and regulations of the countries in which 
we conduct business. The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
company’s ERM program and business continuity risk procedures, as well as 
disclosures about relevant risks made in our financial reports and filings. 
Each risk owner reports management of their specific risk to Corning's ERM 
stakeholders, starting with the directors of Enterprise Risk Management and 
Sustainability, the SWC, the SSC, and ultimately to the Board. This reporting 
process, overseen and channeled by the director, Enterprise Risk Management, 
allows for integration of climate‑related risks into the enterprise’s broader  
risk management.2021 CDP response , 2.1a, 2.2
Corporate Responsibility 
and Sustainability 
Committee Charter
Appendix — TCFD 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 79 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022METRICS AND T ARGETS
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities 
where such information is material.
Recommended 
Disclosure Disclosure Outline More Information
M1 Disclose the 
metrics used by the 
organization to assess 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities in 
line with its strategy 
and risk management 
process.Corning has tracked and reported its Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based) 
GHG emissions and energy use across all of its facilities since 2010.  In our 
annual sustainability report, we disclose global energy consumption per net 
sales (2020 & 2021 reports), global Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per net sales 
(2020 & 2021 reports), and absolute, global Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (2021 
report).  We also track and report relevant scope 3 GHG emissions in our CDP 
response, along with total Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based) emissions.2021 CDP response , C6, C7
2020 Sustainability Report , 
page 14
M2 Disclose Scope 
1, Scope 2, and, if 
appropriate, Scope 
3 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, and 
the related risks.Our 2019 Scope 1 and 2, and relevant 3 emissions were calculated in alignment 
with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 Category 4 
(Upstream Transportation and Distribution), and Category 6 (Business Travel) 
emissions were independently assured pursuant to the ISO 14064-3 standards.
See our 2021 CDP Climate Change Report for detailed emissions data. 
See section S1 above for details of the emissions-related risks Corning  
has identified.2021 CDP response , C6
M3 Describe the 
targets used by 
the organization to 
manage climate-
related risks and 
opportunities and 
performance against 
targets.Corning has set goals to reduce our global absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
30% over the next seven years (versus a 2021 baseline) and reduce our relevant 
Scope 3 emissions by 17 .5% over the same time frame. These goals were 
developed to be in accordance with the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi). 
Corning committed to validating these goals with SBTi in October 2021 and 
is currently in the process of submission and validation in accordance with the 
SBTi requirements and timeline.
Additionally, Corning has a goal to increase use of renewable energy by 400% 
by 2030 from a 2018 baseline (this goal was developed in 2019 and announced 
in 2020, hence the difference in baseline year from the goal presented above).  
T o date, we have invested in a virtual power purchase agreement in the U.S.,  
purchased environmental attribute certificates in the U.S. and Europe, signed 
power purchase agreements for community solar arrays in the U.S., and  
installed on-site solar arrays at facilities worldwide. We are actively evaluating 
opportunities to invest in additional renewable energy, both on-site and  
through virtual contracts, in the U.S. and other countries where viable options  
currently exist.
We also have a goal to enhance water strategies across Corning sites by 2025, 
prioritizing manufacturing plants and communities in high-risk, water-scarce 
regions. We recognize that climate change drives changes in weather patterns 
that can lead to increased water scarcity and water-related issues.2021 CDP response , 4.1b, 
4.2b
2020 Sustainability Report , 
page 45
Appendix — TCFD 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 80 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022GRI Content  
This Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index contains information guided by the recommendations 
set forth in the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards.  While we have responded in part to a number of 
items contained in the GRI Standards, we have not responded to all such items, nor have we responded in 
full to all such specified items. This Index cross‑references the select GRI Standards and disclosures listed 
below to related sections in Corning's 2021 Sustainability Report, as well as other sources of information.  
  
GENERAL DISCLOSURES 
DISCLOSURES REFERENCES, Comments in italics
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization About this Report, p. 3
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Who we are and what we do, p. 7
102-3 Location of headquarters Corning at a Glance, p. 9
102-4 Location of operations Please refer to our website
102‑ 5 Ownership and legal form Please see our 2021 Proxy Statement
102-6 Markets served Who we are and what we do, p. 7
102-7 Scale of the organization Corning at a Glance, p. 9
102-8 Information on employees and other workersWorkforce Data, p. 41
Further data is currently not available at group level.
102-9 Supply chain Responsible Supply Chain, p. 65       
102-10Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chainThere were no significant changes to Corning's business or supply chain in 
the reporting period.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Please see our Environmental Policy
102-12 External initiativesDiversity, Equity & Inclusion, p. 43
Respecting and Protecting Human Rights, p. 49
Responsible Sourcing, p. 67
Joining Forces with America’s Largest Historically Black University, p. 56
A Well‑ Qualified and Diverse Board, p. 62
Introducing Greenhouse Gas Reduction Goals, p. 25
102-13 Membership of associations Participation in Trade Organizations, p. 70
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker From our CEO, p. 4
Ethics and Integrity
102-16Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behavior Our Values Define Us, p. 9
Ethical Business Practices and Compliance,  p. 63
102-17Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 
ethicsReporting Violations, p. 63
Appendix — GRI 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 81 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Governance
102-18 Governance structure Sustainability Governance, p. 25
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement, p. 26
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Data is currently not available at group level.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Success Depends on Support from our Stakeholders, p. 10-13
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement How We Create Shared Success with our Stakeholders, p. 12-13
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement, p. 26
Reporting Practice
102‑45Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements Who we are and what we do, p. 7
About this Report, p. 3
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About this Report, p. 3
102-47 List of material topics Sustainability Goals and Progress, p. 23-24
102-48 Restatements of information About this Report, p. 3. There are no significant restatements.
102-49 Changes in reporting There were no significant changes in the list of material topics or 
boundaries compared to the 2020 Sustainability Report.
102‑ 50 Reporting period About this Report, p. 3. 
102‑ 51 Date of most recent report Our Sustainability Report 2020 was published in June 2021.
102‑ 52 Reporting cycle About this Report, p. 3. 
102‑ 53Contact point for questions regarding the 
report Contact Bennett Leff at LeffBA@corning.com
102‑ 54Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsAbout this Report, p. 3. 
102‑ 55 GRI content index GRI content index, p. 81
102‑ 56 External assurance External assurance has not been sought for this report other than where 
indicated for select metrics.
TOPIC SPECIFIC ST ANDARDS
ECONOMIC
DISCLOSURES Comment
201: Economic Performance (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryPlease see our 2021 Annual Report
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsPlease see our 2021 Annual Report
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachPlease see our 2021 Annual Report
201-1Direct economic value generated and 
distributedPlease see our 2021 Annual Report
201-2Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeUnderstanding and Mitigating Climate Risks and Opportunities, p. 29
Appendix — GRI 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 82 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022204: Procurement Practices (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryIncreasing our Work with Local Suppliers, p. 65    
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsIncreasing our Work with Local Suppliers, p. 65    
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachIncreasing our Work with Local Suppliers, p. 65    
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Increasing our Work with Local Suppliers, p. 65    
205: Anti-corruption (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryAnti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 64
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsAnti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 64
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachAnti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 64
205‑ 2Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and proceduresAnti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 64
205‑ 3Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 
takenAnti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 64
206: Anti-competitive Behavior (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryAnti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 64
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsAnti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 64
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachAnti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 64
206-1Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 
anti-trust, and monopoly practicesAnti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, and Anti-Competitive Behavior, p. 64
ENVIRONMENT AL
DISCLOSURES Comment
301: Materials (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryOur Environmental Strategy and Management Approach, p. 28
Waste Management, p. 37
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsOur Environmental Strategy and Management Approach, p. 28
Waste Management, p. 37
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Environmental Strategy and Management Approach, p. 28
Waste Management, p. 37
301-2 Recycled input materials usedWaste Management, p. 37  
Data for recycled input materials used is currently not being recorded 
across product categories. We are planning to extend monitoring and 
reporting of this data in the future.
Appendix — GRI 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 83 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022302: Energy (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryOur Environmental Strategy and Management Approach, p. 28
Energy and Emissions, p. 29
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsOur Environmental Strategy and Management Approach, p. 28
Energy and Emissions, p. 29
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Environmental Strategy and Management Approach, p. 28
Energy and Emissions, p. 29
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy + Greenhouse Gas Performance, p. 33
302-3 Energy intensity Energy + Greenhouse Gas Performance, p. 33
303: Water and Effluents (2018)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryWater Management, p. 36
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsWater Management, p. 36
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachWater Management, p. 36
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water Management, p. 36
303-2Management of water discharge-related 
impactsWater Management, p. 36
Please see our Environmental Policy
303-3 Water withdrawalWater Efficiency, p. 37  
Data for 2021 is currently undergoing external verification. We expect to 
publish 2021 water withdrawal data as part of our upcoming CDP Report on 
Water Security.
303-4 Water dischargeWater Efficiency, p. 37  
Data for 2021 is currently undergoing external verification. We expect to 
publish 2021 water discharge data as part of our upcoming CDP Report on 
Water Security.
305: Emissions (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryEnergy and Emissions, p. 29
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsEnergy and Emissions, p. 29
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachEnergy and Emissions, p. 29
305‑ 1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy + Greenhouse Gas Performance, p. 33
305‑ 2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Energy + Greenhouse Gas Performance, p. 33
305‑4 GHG emissions intensity Energy + Greenhouse Gas Performance, p. 33
305‑ 5 Reduction of GHG emissions2021 Site Highlights: Renewable Energy Initiatives, p. 32  
We expect to publish 2021 data on reduction of GHG emissions as part of 
our upcoming CDP Report on Climate Change.
Appendix — GRI 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 84 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022306: Waste (2020)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryWaste Management, p. 37
Please see our Environmental Policy
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsWaste Management, p. 37
Please see our Environmental Policy
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachWaste Management, p. 37
Please see our Environmental Policy
306-1Waste generation and significant waste‑related 
impactsWaste Management, p. 37
Please see our Environmental Policy
306-2Management of significant waste‑related 
impactsWaste Management, p. 37
Please see our Environmental Policy
306-4 Waste diverted from disposalData is currently not available at group level. We are planning to extend 
monitoring and report this data in the future.
307: Environmental Compliance (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryOur Environmental Strategy and Management Approach, p. 28
Environmental Compliance, p. 64
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsOur Environmental Strategy and Management Approach, p. 28
Environmental Compliance, p. 64
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Environmental Strategy and Management Approach, p. 28
Environmental Compliance, p. 64
307-1Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulationsEnvironmental Compliance, p. 64
308: Supplier Environmental Assessment (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65    
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65    
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65    
308-1New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
2021 Supplier Performance Data, p. 66
SOCIAL
DISCLOSURES Comment
401: Employment (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryOur Culture, p. 40
Recognizing Experience, p. 40
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsOur Culture, p. 40
Recognizing Experience, p. 40
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Culture, p. 40
Recognizing Experience, p. 40
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Workforce Data, p. 41
Appendix — GRI 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 85 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022402: Labor /Management Relations (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryRespecting Labor Rights, p.48
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsRespecting Labor Rights, p.48
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachRespecting Labor Rights, p.48
402-1Minimum notice periods regarding operational 
changes Respecting Labor Rights, p.48
403: Occupational Health and Safety (2018)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryOur Culture, p. 40
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsEmployee Well-Being, p. 49
Employee Safety, p. 51
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachEmployee Safety — T op-Quartile Performance, p. 52
403-1Occupational health and safety management 
systemEmployee Safety — Our Approach, p. 51
403-2Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigationHealth & Safety Risk Mitigation, p. 52
403-3 Occupational health services Health & Safety Risk Mitigation, p. 52
403-4Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and 
safetyEmployee Safety — Our Approach, p. 51
403‑ 5Worker training on occupational health and 
safetyEmployee Safety — Our Approach, p. 51
403-6 Promotion of worker health Our Employee Health Programs, p. 50
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked by 
business relationshipsIncreasing our Work with Local Suppliers, p. 65       
Employee Safety, p. 51  
403-8Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management systemWork ‑related Injury and Ill Health, p. 52
403-9 Work-related injuries Work ‑related Injury and Ill Health, p. 52
404: Training and Education (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryOur Culture, p. 40
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsTraining and Career Development, p. 42  
Performance Reviews, p. 42
Expanding T echnical Career Opportunities, p. 43
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachContinual Conversations, p. 42
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programsTraining and Career Development, p. 42
404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviewsPerformance Reviews, p. 42
Appendix — GRI 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 86 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryDiversity, Equity & Inclusion, p. 43
Speaking up for Social Justice, p. 46
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsAdvancing Diversity within our Workforce, p. 44
A Well‑ Qualified and Diverse Board, p. 62
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachDiversity, Equity & Inclusion, p. 43
405‑ 1 Diversity of governance bodies and employeesAdvancing Diversity within our Workforce, p. 44
Please see our 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 25
405‑ 2Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to menSupporting Pay Equity, p. 44
406: Non-discrimination (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryDiversity, Equity & Inclusion, p. 43
Speaking up for Social Justice, p. 46
Ethical Business Practices and Compliance, p. 63
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsDiversity, Equity & Inclusion, p. 43
Speaking up for Social Justice, p. 46
Ethical Business Practices and Compliance, p. 63
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachDiversity, Equity & Inclusion, p. 43
Speaking up for Social Justice, p. 46
Ethical Business Practices and Compliance, p. 63
406-1Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenReporting Violations, p. 63
We did have a small number of cases involving discrimination and/or 
harassment in 2021, but none were significant or material in nature and all 
were promptly investigated and addressed. 
407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryMitigating Supply Chain Risk, p. 66
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsMitigating Supply Chain Risk, p. 66
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachMitigating Supply Chain Risk, p. 66
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
407-1Operations and suppliers in which the right 
to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining may be at riskSupplier Assessment and Audits, p. 66
Appendix — GRI 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 87 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022408: Child Labor (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
408-1Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of child laborMitigating Supply Chain Risk, p. 66
409: F orced or Compulsory Labor (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
409-1Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory laborMitigating Supply Chain Risk, p. 66
412: Human Rights Assessment (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
Please see our Human Rights Policy
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
412-3Significant investment agreements and 
contracts that include human rights clauses or 
that underwent human rights screeningPlease see our Human Rights Policy
Appendix — GRI 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 88 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022413: Local Communities (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundarySpeaking up for Social Justice, p. 46
Supporting education, p. 47
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsSpeaking up for Social Justice, p. 46
Supporting education, p. 47
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachSpeaking up for Social Justice, p. 46
Supporting education, p. 47
413-1Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development 
programsSpeaking up for Social Justice, p. 46
Supporting education, p. 47
414: Supplier Social Assessment (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65    
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachResponsible Supply Chain, p. 65
414-1New suppliers that were screened using social 
criteriaMitigating Supply Chain Risk, p. 66
Supplier Assessment and Audits, p. 66    
415: Public Policy (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryPublic Policy and Corporate Political Contributions, p. 70
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsPublic Policy and Corporate Political Contributions, p. 70
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachPublic Policy and Corporate Political Contributions, p. 70
415‑ 1 Political contributions Public Policy and Corporate Political Contributions, p. 70
418: Customer Privacy (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryData Security and Privacy, p. 69
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsData Security and Privacy, p. 69
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachData Security and Privacy, p. 69
418-1Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 
of customer privacy and losses of customer 
dataData Security and Privacy, p. 69
419: Socioeconomic Compliance (2016)
103-1Management Approach: Explanation of the 
material topic and its BoundaryEthical Business Practices and Compliance, p. 63
103-2Management Approach: The management 
approach and its componentsEthical Business Practices and Compliance, p. 63
103-3Management Approach: Evaluation of the 
management approachEthical Business Practices and Compliance, p. 63
419-1Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 
the social and economic areaAny significant incidents would be reported in our Annual Report, section 
Legal Proceedings. Please see our 2021 Annual Report
Appendix — GRI 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 89 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022SASB Disclosures  
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) has developed a set of investor-focused 
sustainability accounting standards. In the table below we reference SASB’s disclosures for the T echnology 
& Communications Sector — Hardware Industry. We do not fully report on all SASB disclosures at this time 
and are working to improve our reporting in the future. 
ACCOUNTING METRICS 
T opic Accounting Metric Code 2021 Reporting
Product SecurityDescription of approach to 
identifying and addressing data 
security risks in productsTC‑HW‑ 230a.1Our approach to Data Security and Privacy can  
be found in the Governance section of this report 
(page 69 ). 
Employee 
Diversity & 
InclusionPercentage of gender and racial/
ethnic group representation for 
(1) management, (2) technical 
staff, and (3) all other employeesTC‑HW‑ 330a.1Please refer to our People section — Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion on page 43  of this report. Further 
information can be found in our DE&I 2021 Annual 
Report , 2021 Proxy Statement  and our 2021 Annual 
Report .
Product
Lifecycle
ManagementPercentage of products by 
revenue that contain IEC 62474 
declarable substances TC‑HW‑410a.1This disclosure is omitted because it is not applicable 
to the majority of our products.
Percentage of eligible products, 
by revenue, meeting the 
requirements for EPEA T 
registration or equivalentTC‑HW‑410a.2This disclosure is omitted because it is not applicable 
to the majority of our products.
Percentage of eligible products, 
by revenue, meeting ENERGY 
ST AR® criteriaTC‑HW‑410a.3This disclosure is omitted because it is not applicable 
to the majority of our products.
Weight of end-of-life products 
and e-waste recovered, 
percentage recycledTC‑HW‑410a.4This information is currently not available and 
therefore omitted. We are working to report this data 
in the future.
Supply Chain
ManagementPercentage of Tier 1 supplier 
facilities audited in the RBA 
Validated Audit Process (V AP) or 
equivalent, by (a) all facilities and 
(b) high-risk facilitiesTC‑HW‑430a.1Please refer to our Responsible Supply Chain section 
 — Supplier Assessments and Audits on page 67  
of this report. Further information can be found in 
our Human Rights Policy  and Statement on Human 
Trafficking and Slavery . 
Tier 1 suppliers’ (1) non‑
conformance rate with the RBA 
Validated Audit Process (V AP) 
or equivalent, and (2) associated 
corrective action rate for (a) 
priority non-conformances and 
(b) other non-conformancesTC‑HW‑430a.2Please refer to our Responsible Supply Chain section 
— Audit Results and Corrective Action on page 66  
of this report. Further information can be found in 
our  Human Rights Policy  and Statement on Human 
Trafficking and Slavery .
Materials
SourcingDescription of the management 
of risks associated with the use of 
critical materialsTC‑HW‑440a.1Our approach to Materials Sourcing can be found in 
the Responsible Supply Chain section — Responsible 
Sourcing on page 67  of this report. Further 
information can be found in our Responsible  Minerals 
Policy  and our 2021 Annual Report .
Appendix — SASB 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 90 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022ACTIVITY METRICS 
T opic Activity Metric Code 2021 Reporting
Activity MetricsNumber of units produced by 
product categoryTC‑HW‑000.A We currently do not disclose this information. 
Area of manufacturing facilities TC‑HW‑000.BOur manufacturing, sales and administrative, research 
and development, and warehouse facilities have an 
aggregate floor space of approximately 64.4 million 
square feet. Please refer to our 2021 Annual Report  
for more information.
Percentage of production from 
owned facilities TC‑HW‑000.C We currently do not disclose this information.
Appendix — SASB 2021 Corning Sustainability Report / 91 
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022Photo courtesy of Corning  
employee Anna Sowinska-Wolankiewicz
Corning Incorporated  
One Riverfront Plaza
Corning, NY  14831-0001
www.corning.com
© 2022 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.
DRAFT REPORT March 17 , 2022