HOW TOMORROW MOVES
CSX
2013 CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY REPORTChairman’s Message   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
About This Report   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Business Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Governance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Markets   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Value Chain: Customers and Suppliers  . . . . . . . . 32
Safety   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Environment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Workforce  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Community  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
GRI Index  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Appendix   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
COPYRIGHT ©2014 CSX CORPORATION2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1
Dear Stakeholders: 
Welcome to CSX’s 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) report . This comprehensive review of the 
company’s successes and challenges provides important 
insights on CSX’s performance and our ability to meet and exceed the needs of our customers, employees, investors 
and the communities we serve .
From market overviews to diversity and inclusion efforts, 
and from governance standards to safety and the 
environment, the CSR report maintains transparency in critical areas and is a baseline on our path of continuous 
improvement . In this report, you’ll find detailed information 
about our network’s reach, infrastructure investments and expansion, and the economic and environmental benefits 
that are powering a North American Rail Renaissance .
CSX delivers transportation solutions that generate 
value via our 21,000-mile eastern network serving nearly 
two-thirds of American consumers . The combination of economic and environmental benefits has created 
growing demand for rail service, stimulating jobs and 
development and reducing highway congestion and exhaust emissions .
Just 50 years after U .S . independence, CSX’s oldest 
predecessor, the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, began its 
westward trek from its namesake city to the Ohio River  . 
Expansion and improvement have been vital ever since, 
and CSX has invested nearly $7 billion over the past three 
years to maintain and upgrade infrastructure and prepare 
for further growth opportunities .
We know that meeting America’s increasing need for 
efficient, environmentally friendly rail transportation rests on effective collaboration with communities and public 
officials . When that happens, it can generate economic 
development and job creation: A total of 121 new or expanded facilities located on CSX or connecting 
short lines in 2013, representing $3 billion in customer 
investments and more than 1,600 new job opportunities .If that’s not compelling enough, just think about the environmental benefit of moving a ton of freight more 
than 450 miles on a single gallon of fuel . That’s the 
result of investing in new, fuel-efficient locomotives and technologies and progressing toward our goal of 
significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions . Other 
work focuses on incorporating the latest innovations and environmentally friendly design into the construction of 
new terminals, other facilities and infrastructure .
Finally, we’re proud to be part of the communities in which 
we operate but we also acknowledge the obligation to 
be active, contributing corporate citizens . That’s why we donated more than $16 million to various community 
needs in 2013, and supported strategic national partners 
including City Year, National FFA Organization (also known as Future Farmers of America), Dignity U Wear, National 
Safe Place and Alliance for Community Trees, among 
others . Underlying these efforts is the unwavering spirit of volunteerism among our 31,000 employees, which every 
day extends CSX’s reach beyond our rails .
Going forward, we will continue our relentless focus on 
safety, service to our customers and financial performance 
that meets or exceeds expectations . In that way, we also meet the expectations of American everywhere . I hope 
you find this CSR report useful and enlightening, and a 
platform for future dialogue .
Sincerely, 
Michael J . WardChairman’s Message
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
This 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report 
provides an overview of how CSX operates sustainably 
across our 21,000-mile rail network and how we 
manage the business to address the interests of our key stakeholders . The report aligns with our core values and 
describes our sustainability commitments and associated 
performance . 
This report was prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, published in May 2013, which provide a 
generally accepted framework for reporting social, 
economic and environmental performance . In line with the G4 requirements, we completed a materiality assessment 
to identify and prioritize the issues most important to 
stakeholders – defined by G4 as “material issues” – that would influence them when making a judgment or 
decision about CSX .
We produce a CSR report every year, and this 2013 report 
is our fourth edition . Please see the GRI Index on page 98 
for a list of all G4 disclosures and indicators referenced in this report . CSX received a GRI Materiality Matters check 
for this report, verifying that our materiality and stakeholder 
engagement processes are in line with the G4 guidelines .All of the information contained in this report is fully representative of the company’s principal operating 
subsidiary, CSX Transportation, as well as its other 
subsidiaries, including: CSX Intermodal Terminals, Inc . (CSX Intermodal Terminals); Total Distribution Services, 
Inc . (TDSI); Transflo Terminal Services, Inc . (TRANSFLO); 
and CSX Technology, Inc . (CSX Technology)
1 . Information 
in this report covers 2011 through 2013, with a focus on 
activities during fiscal year 2013 (December 29, 2012, to 
December 27, 2013) . In certain cases, we’ve addressed events that occurred during the first half of 2014 to ensure 
that the discussion of material issues is current as of the 
publication date of this report (June 2014) . There are no significant changes in the boundary or scope of this report 
compared to the 2012 report
2 . 
Any restatements of data from prior years are noted 
throughout the report where appropriate . Units are metric except where noted otherwise . CSX’s greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions were verified by a third party as part 
of the company’s participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) .About This Report
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY1 . G4-17
2 . G4-232013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3
Engaging with Stakeholders
It is critical to our business that we foster transparent 
communication with stakeholders at all levels – in the 
public, with the government and within our organization . 
Our engagement with stakeholders is much deeper than a single activity or channel; we tailor our approach to most effectively engage each group . In this way, we ensure we have a thorough understanding of their specific interests . 
Our various stakeholders, and our methods used to 
engage them, are listed in the table below  .
3
Stakeholder  Group
4Engagement  Approach
5Topics6
Communities Corporate citizenship programs, which include community investments, engagement 
and volunteerism; public meetings; safety 
education campaigns; TellCSX helplineCollaboration and partnerships; economic benefits in local communities; environment; 
network safety and security; public safety; 
transportation of hazardous materials 
Customers Customer events and trade shows; e-business tools; Voice of the Customer survey; website; 
CDP and DJSI responses; customer advisory 
councils Customer service; environmental benefits of rail transport; safe handling of freight; service 
reliability; transportation of hazardous materials
Employees Awareness campaigns; ethics helpline; intranet 
sites; leadership meetings; newsletters; town 
hall meetings; training; Voice of the Employee 
surveyBenefits; environment; safety and wellness; satisfaction surveys; service excellence; 
training; volunteer opportunities
Investors Annual shareholder meeting; earnings 
conference calls and investor conferences; quarterly and annual SEC reports; CDP and 
DJSI responsesCapital investments; corporate governance; 
financial and operating results; safety; shareholder returns
Non-Governmental OrganizationsOrganizational and project-specific partnerships; Climate Corps Fellowship; CDP and DJSI responsesCollaboration and partnerships; energy efficiency; land management; economic development; carbon management
Public and  
Regulatory  
OfficialsCSX Environmental Management  
System; CSX Police; public policy advocacy; 
training Collaboration and partnerships; compliance 
with laws and regulations; environment; safety
Suppliers CSX supplier web-portal; supplier diversity 
initiatives; supplier quality programContractor management; safety;  supplier development; supplier diversity
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY3 . G4-25
4 . G4-245 . G4-266 . G4-274 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Understanding Material Issues 
MATERIALITY PROCESS
We carried out a materiality assessment, in accordance 
with G4 guidelines, to identify and prioritize the issues 
most important to each of the stakeholder groups . The 
content and balance of this report reflect the assessed materiality of these issues and provides an avenue for 
addressing them in a way that we believe is meaningful to 
stakeholders
7 . 
As part of the assessment, we conducted in-depth interviews with internal and select external stakeholders, completed a media review and solicited feedback on 
the 2012 CSR report . In addition, we used investor 
questionnaires, sustainability ratings and rankings, GRI guidelines, industry trends, peer reports and customer inquiries to further refine the issues critical to CSX’s current 
and future success .
MATERIAL ISSUES
The list below presents the results of our materiality 
assessment . While all of the issues represented here are 
important, the topics in bold were identified as those 
that stakeholders currently consider most material, and we address them in depth in this report . We recognize 
that priorities can change over time and will continue to 
refine this materiality process to best capture the evolving concerns of diverse stakeholders . 
Material Issues for CSX8
Governance 
• Compliance
• Core Values
• Corporate Governance
• Executive Compensation 
• External Stakeholder Engagement
• Government Engagement
• Innovation 
• Risk Management (crisis preparedness, 
emergency response) 
• Shareholder Returns
• Sustainability Integration
• Transparency (advertising, reporting and  company communications)
Markets
• Changing U .S . Energy Mix  (crude by rail, export coal)
• Environmental Benefits of Rail Transport
Value Chain: Customers and Suppliers
• Customer Service
• Supply Chain ManagementSafety
• Employee Safety
• Infrastructure Protection 
• Network Safety
• Public Safety and Security 
Environment
• Air Quality 
• Biodiversity and Land Management
• Carbon Management and Climate Change
• Waste 
• Water
Workforce
• Benefits and Training
• Diversity
• Health and Wellness
• Human Rights
• Labor Management and Practices 
• Workforce Management, Talent Acquisition and Retention
Communities
• Community Engagement and Collaboration
• Local Economic Contributions
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY7 . G4-18
8 . G4-192013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 5
MANAGEMENT OF MATERIAL ISSUES
We are proactive in addressing all of the company’s material issues . The table below provides an alphabetical listing of 
high-priority issues for 2013, and identifies the relevant section of the report where they are addressed . 
Material Issue Materiality Boundary CSX Management of Issue 
Inside  
of CSX9Outside  
of CSX10
Carbon Management and Climate Change Environment; Customers
Changing U .S . Energy Mix Markets; Crude oil case study
Community Engagement and CollaborationCommunities; Safety
Employee Safety Employee safety
Environmental Benefits of Rail Transport Customers; Environment
Innovation Customer service innovation; Safety 
innovation; Environmental innovation 
Local Economic Contributions Communities; Suppliers
Network Safety Network safety
Public Safety and Security Public safety
Risk ManagementGovernance; Suppliers; Environment; 
Safety
Shareholder Returns Governance; Markets
TransparencyAnnual CDP , DJSI and CSR reporting; 
CSX websitesRaw
Material
ExtractionMaterials
ConversionProduct
Manufacturing Inventory/
Storage
Customer
Use
Land
Suppliers Trains/Rail Operations CustomersCSX COMPANY
BOUNDARY
Suppliers Fuel Maintenance
SuppliersDisposalMATERIAL ISSUES ACROSS OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
As a transportation company, CSX is a critical part of the supply chain for American and global businesses . We developed a 
supply chain map in order to better understand the most 
material issues and where we need to focus to most effectively address the impacts associated with our 
business . 
CSX’s network is an important part of the 
value chain, which includes the land on which 
we operate, as well as our suppliers who provide us with the materials and equipment 
that make it possible for us to deliver our 
customers’ goods to their final destination . The dotted line on the figure to the right 
represents the boundary of what we consider 
“inside” our company  . Included in the table 
below is an indication of where material 
issues fall along our supply chain . 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY9 . G4-20
10 . G4-216 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
CSX at a Glance 
As one of the nation’s leading 
transportation companies, CSX 
provides rail-based service in 23 
states east of the Mississippi, the District of Columbia, and the 
Canadian provinces of Ontario and 
Quebec . We provide traditional rail service, as well as the transport of 
intermodal containers and trailers . 
Headquartered in Jacksonville, Fla ., our network reaches more than 70 
ocean, river and lake ports along 
the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, the Mississippi River, the Great Lakes 
and the St . Lawrence Seaway  . 
CSX also connects thousands of 
production and distribution facilities 
through approximately 240 short-line 
and regional railroads . 
CSX’s 21,000-mile network and 
approximately 31,000 dedicated employees are essential to the 
continued growth of the American 
economy  . We help efficiently 
transport a broad range of products 
for the nation’s farmers and 
manufacturers, energy producers and users, ports, retailers, plants, 
mills and more . CSX’s network is 
positioned to reach nearly two-thirds of the nation’s consumers . We serve 
major markets east of the Mississippi, 
including New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Baltimore, Atlanta, Miami, 
New Orleans, St . Louis, Memphis 
and Chicago .Sustainable and 
Responsible Operations 
As a community member, business 
partner, employer, environmental 
steward and value-creator for 
shareholders, we have implemented a sustainability strategy, described in 
the statement on the previous page, 
to help us achieve maximum results with minimum impacts . Prioritizing 
sustainability and innovation is crucial 
for our ability to deliver the excellent customer service and strong financial 
results that will build future success . 
CSX is dedicated to improving transparency and accountability, and 
we review our sustainability strategy 
on a periodic basis . This CSR report exemplifies those efforts .Business Strategy 
CSX aspires to be the safest, most progressive North American railroad, 
relentless in the pursuit of customer 
and employee excellence . Our vision, purpose and core values guide our 
employees as they make decisions 
on a daily basis . Each of our core values serves as a reminder of what 
is most important to CSX: 
• It starts with the customer  .
• People make the difference .
• Safety is a way of life .
• Fact-based .
• Right results, right way  .
When all employees are aligned with these core values, we can better 
serve our communities, customers and other stakeholders . Business Overview
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 7
CSX Sustainability Statement
At CSX, sustainability is the way we manage and operate our 
business to best serve our customers, care for the environment, secure profits and drive long-term prosperity  . Sustainability is a 
business method that ensures safety, efficiency and responsibility 
in a manner that protects CSX employees, communities, 
shareholders and the environment – now and in the future . Our daily operations align business performance with a commitment to environmental, social and community stewardship encompassing three elements:
Reduce the environmental footprint of our operations .
• Transport goods in a manner that minimizes community and 
environmental impacts .
• Reduce fuel, energy, water and other resources needed to move each ton-mile of freight .
• Increase recycling and reuse efforts through waste minimization .
• Strive to manage the CSX supply chain in consideration of environmental effects and good governance .
Engage openly on sustainability issues .
• Communicate regularly with customers, employees and external stakeholders on sustainability issues, goals and efforts .
• Provide opportunities to customers, suppliers, employees and communities to actively participate in sustainability programs .
• Increase transparency and disclosure of our sustainability performance through our annual CSR report and related 
sustainability disclosures .
Support sustainable development .
• Collaborate with customers and communities to grow sustainably while considering social, economic and 
environmental effects .
• Build innovative infrastructure to support operations and minimize resource use .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY8 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Financial Performance Highlights 
In 2013, revenue was $12 .0 billion – an increase of $263 
million (2 percent) over 2012 . Our expenses increased 
$254 million (3 percent) while our operating income of 
$3 .5 billion remained flat . CSX achieved earnings per share of $1 .83 – an increase of $0 .04 (2 percent) over 
2012 .
The company’s total revenue increase was driven by 
volume growth and pricing gains across most markets . 
The 2 percent volume increase was due to growth in merchandise and intermodal that more than offset lower 
coal volume . The increase in expenses was primarily due 
to inflation, higher incentive compensation expense and increased depreciation, as well as prior-year real estate 
gains not repeated in 2013 .KEY FINANCIALS  
(PER FISCAL YEAR, DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
2011 2012 2013
Volume  (thousands 
of units)6,476 6,409 6,539
Revenue $11,795 $11,763 $12,026
Expense $8,325 $8,299 $8,553
Operating income$3,470 $3,464 $3,473
Operating 
ratio70 .6% 70 .6% 71 .1%
For additional information, refer to the Results of Operations section of 
CSX’s 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K . Spotlight: CSX and the American Railroad: More than 185 Years of Progress 
Few industries have played as significant of a role in 
America’s progress as the railroad industry. In good economic times and in bad, the railroad has adapted to the changing needs of American businesses. Our company and our industry have changed as dramatically as America has over more than 185 years, and CSX is proud to remain an important part of how this country runs and succeeds. 
Today, CSX and the rail industry provide customers 
with access to an expansive and interconnected transportation network that fuels North American commerce and is critical to the economic success and global competitiveness of the United States. U.S. 
demand to move more goods by rail is expected to 
rise, and freight railroads are the most environmentally efficient and economical means to meet this growing need. On average, trains are four times more fuel-efficient than trucks, and CSX can move a ton of freight about 450 miles on one gallon of diesel fuel. Rail transport also alleviates highway congestion, reduces air pollution and saves energy.
The railroad is a visible part of American life and 
communities all across the country. CSX collaborates with industry peers through groups like the Association of American Railroads (AAR) to ensure that America’s freight railroads operate as safely, efficiently and responsibly as possible. We work diligently to address the concerns of our communities and make sure that 
tomorrow will be an even better day for all of us.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 9
Spotlight: National Gateway Phase One Clearance Completion
The National Gateway is one of 
the nation’s largest transportation projects. In September 2013, Phase One of this public-private partnership was completed. This project will help improve the flow of freight from Mid-Atlantic ports to points of consumption in the Midwest by double stack-clearing critical parts of our intermodal network. 
The project provides a number of 
benefits:
Environmentally responsible 
operations . The National Gateway will create significant long-term environmental benefits by converting more than 14 billion highway truck miles to freight rail. Not only will this reduce highway congestion, but it will also save nearly 2 billion gallons of fuel and prevent 20 million tons of CO
2 from entering 
the atmosphere. 
Economic growth . Over a 
30-year period, this project will create more than 50,000 jobs, half of which will be located in 14 economically disadvantaged areas as well as reduce highway maintenance and shipping costs. 
Enhanced safety  . Facilities 
that will be built or expanded to support the National Gateway 
will implement modern, high-technology operating methods to ensure safety. In addition, through increased railway efficiency, the project will help passenger and freight trains stay on schedule, enabling states to save up to $251 million in safety costs. 
The project is focusing next on 
Phase Two, which will enable CSX to use double-stack trains through the corridor between Chambersburg, Pa., and Mid-Atlantic ports in Baltimore and Virginia. Public-Private Partnerships
As invested members of our communities, CSX partners 
with government at all levels to support multiyear rail 
infrastructure projects, such as the National Gateway, that 
expand the capacity of U .S . rail networks . Such projects provide substantial economic and environmental benefits, 
including job creation, increased business activity at ports, reduced highway congestion and lower air emissions . 
They also provide a foundation for volume growth, 
increased productivity, improved customer service, 
heightened market access and advanced operational reliability  . 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY10 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
CSX Network Geography
With 21,000 miles of track, access to more than 70 ports and nationwide transloading and warehousing services, CSX 
serves America’s transportation needs through the following major transportation networks: 
WaycrossAvonGreenwichClevelandWalbridge
AtlantaFlorenceDetroitBuffalo
Louisville
BirminghamNashvilleSyracuse
Cumberland
Rocky Mount
Erwin
BaldwinRichmondColumbusChicago
Locust Point
New OrleansCurtis BayWillard
MontgomeryHamletEvansville
JacksonvilleCharlestonSelkirk
MobileRussellStanley
TampaE. SavannahCincinnati
Major Terminal
I-90 Corridor
I-95 Corridor
Southeastern Corridor
Coal Network
CSX Rail NetworkInterstate 90 (I-90) Corridor. This CSX corridor links 
Chicago and the Midwest to metropolitan areas 
in New York and New England. It serves 
as a primary route for import trafﬁc 
coming from the far east 
through western ports. 
Interstate 95 (I-95) Corridor. 
The CSX I-95 corridor connects 
Charleston, Jacksonville, Miami 
and many other cities throughout 
the Southeast with the heavily 
populated Mid-Atlantic and 
Northeastern cities of Baltimore, 
Philadelphia and New York.
Southeastern Corridor. This portion of the 
CSX network connects our western gateways 
of Chicago, St. Louis and Memphis to the cities 
of Nashville, Birmingham and Atlanta, as well 
as markets in the Southeast.Coal Network. The CSX coal network 
connects the coal mining operations in the 
Appalachian mountain regions and Illinois 
Basin with utilities and industrial areas in the 
Northeast and Mid-Atlantic, as well as many 
river, lake and deepwater port facilities.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 11
Our Fleet
CSX operates an extensive fleet of locomotives and freight cars capable of meeting the growing customer demand for 
sustainable rail-based transportation . In addition, some customers own or lease their own railcars . 
LOCOMOTIVES
A CSX locomotive has the power to pull freight cars in trains that stretch more than a mile long . We currently 
operate more than 4,000 locomotives; more than 97 
percent are owned by the company and the rest are long-term leased . The fleet consists of 3,730 freight 
locomotives, 320 switching locomotives used in rail yards 
and 209 auxiliary units that are used to produce extra power for heavy trains in hilly terrain .FREIGHT CAR FLEET
In 2013, CSX transported 6 .5 million carloads and containers of products and raw materials to diverse 
customers across the country  . More than half of the 
railcars on the CSX system are railcars owned by other 
railroads, shipper-furnished or private cars, or multilevel 
railcars shared among railroads to transport automobiles .
LOCOMOTIVES
Number Percent of Fleet
Freight 3,730 87%
Switching 320 8%
Auxiliary units 209 5%
Total locomotives 4,259 100%
FREIGHT CARS AND CONTAINERS
Number Percent of Fleet
Gondolas 25,781 38%
Open-top hoppers 12,077 18%
Multilevel flat cars 11,246 16%
Covered hoppers 10,014 15%
Boxcars 7,912 12%
Flat cars 735 1%
Other 243 <1%
Subtotal railcar 68,008 100%
Containers 17,569
Total equipment 85,577
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYSuccesses
• CSX revised our risk assessment process to better align 
with our business strategy and to identify emerging risks 
more quickly  .
• CSX was named “Most Honored Company” by 
Institutional Investor Magazine as part of the annual 
All-America Executive Team survey, ranking first in the 
Airfreight and Surface Transportation sector  .
• CSX was named to the North America Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (DJSI) for the third consecutive year, 
and was the only U .S . railroad included in 2013 .Challenges
• Continuing to improve communication with our stakeholders on governance topics . 
• Anticipating future regulations and making necessary changes to our strategy to adapt .
• Continuing to find new ways to implement sustainability 
into our strategic planning and governance decisions .Governance2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 13
Executive Leadership
EXECUTIVE TEAM
The CSX Executive Team has more than 
150 years of combined industry experience . 
Team members have served in a variety of 
roles throughout their time at CSX . They work together in the pursuit of long-term business 
success, the creation of shareholder value 
and the engagement and achievement of thousands of dedicated CSX employees to 
continue our tradition of safety, innovation and 
service . More information about the Executive Team members is available on the corporate 
governance page of the company’s website . Setting the right example starts at the top. 
A management team that does the right 
things ensures that the company as a whole 
will do what’s right for the business, the 
environment and its communities.
CSX Executive Team (from left to right): Lisa Mancini, Clarence Gooden, Michael Ward, 
Ellen Fitzsimmons, Fredrik Eliasson, Oscar MunozManagement Approach and Plans Ahead
To realize our vision of being the safest, most progressive North American railroad, we 
must continually build upon our foundation of responsible corporate governance . At 
CSX, good governance means managing our business in a way that is transparent and 
accountable to our stakeholders . By proactively engaging and motivating our employees and exceeding our customers’ expectations, we can continually evolve and succeed in a dynamic economy while reinforcing our core values .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY14 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CSX’s Board of Directors is composed of a diverse group 
of experienced individuals who ensure the company is 
making decisions that support long-term growth and 
success . CSX Directors are elected each year through a majority voting process, providing transparency and 
accountability to stakeholders .
With the exception of Michael J . Ward, Chairman of the 
Board, all of the company’s Directors are independent . 
The CSX Board of Directors evaluates the independence and performance of each Director  . In making the 
independence determination, the Board considers the New York Stock Exchange listing standards, as well as transactions or relationships, if any, between each 
Director, Director nominee or his or her immediate family 
and the company or its subsidiaries . The purpose of this review is to determine whether any such relationships or 
transactions are material, and could impair a nominee’s or 
Director’s actual or perceived independence . 
The CSX Board of Directors holds at least six regularly 
scheduled meetings each year, with additional meetings scheduled on an as-needed basis . At every Board 
meeting, the non-management Directors meet alone in 
executive sessions chaired by the Presiding Director  . In 
addition, the Board tours sites along the CSX network to 
gain further insight into our operations, our customers’ 
businesses, current projects underway and growth opportunities for the company  . The Board periodically, but at least once every three years, reviews and sets the compensation for non-
management directors based on the recommendation 
of the Governance Committee, which takes into account independent market assessments . Director compensation 
includes both cash and stock-based components and 
CSX maintains a set of guidelines for director stock-ownership . In recommending the amount and form of 
Director compensation, the Committee considers, among 
other factors, the level of compensation necessary to attract and retain qualified, independent Directors .
For more information about CSX’s Directors, please see 
the corporate governance page of our website . 
Leadership Structure
JOINT CHAIRMAN AND CEO
CSX combines the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and appoints an independent Presiding 
Director  . We believe that by combining the positions, 
we provide clarity of leadership to the company and 
shareholders . The Presiding Director is selected annually 
by the Governance Committee . Currently, Edward J . Kelly, 
III, serves as the Presiding Director  . 
BOARD COMMITTEES
CSX’s Board of Directors has six standing committees, each of which is governed by a charter  . Those 
committees meet at least six times per year, except for 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYCSX’s Board of Directors tours the recently expanded intermodal terminal in Worcester, Mass .2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15
the Executive Committee, which meets on an as-needed 
basis . Sustainability is addressed through a variety of committees’ activities during the year  . 
Audit Committee . The Audit Committee is responsible for the oversight of CSX’s financial statements, compliance 
with legal and regulatory requirements, the independent 
auditors’ qualifications and independence, CSX’s risk management processes, and the performance of the 
independent auditors and the company’s internal audit 
function .
Compensation Committee . The Compensation 
Committee develops and oversees compensation philosophy, strategy and design . This Committee is 
responsible for regularly reviewing, approving and 
monitoring compensation policies and plans, along with associated financial impacts and risks to the business . 
It also conducts an annual CEO performance review, 
manages changes to the company employee benefit plans and is responsible for approving equity-based incentive 
awards . Each member must meet the independence 
requirements of the New York Stock Exchange .
Executive Committee . The Executive Committee acts 
on behalf of the full Board during periods between regular Board meetings . This Committee is composed of the 
Chairman of the Board, the Presiding Director and the 
chairpersons of each standing committee .
Finance Committee . The Finance Committee provides 
oversight and review of the company’s financial matters, which include the monitoring of corporate debt, cash 
flow and the assets and liabilities maintained by CSX and 
our affiliates in connection with employee benefit plans, including monitoring the funding and investment policies 
and performances of the assets .
Governance Committee . The Governance Committee’s 
primary functions are identifying qualified individuals for 
possible election to the Board of Directors; evaluating the Board’s performance and management; and 
recommending potential changes in committee structure, 
governance policies and procedures . Each member must meet the independence requirements of the New York 
Stock Exchange .
Public Affairs Committee . The Public Affairs 
Committee assists the Board by addressing important 
and emerging public policy issues that could potentially affect CSX . The Committee oversees compliance with 
legal requirements and internal policies relating to equal 
employment, diversity in the workplace, employee safety and environmental protection . It also monitors how our 
activities and practices affect our reputation and reviews 
the annual CSR report .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYOur Vision
To be the safest, most progressive North American railroad, relentless in the pursuit of 
customer and employee excellence .
Our Purpose
To capitalize on the efficiency of rail transportation 
to serve America .
Our Core Values
At CSX, we believe that living by a set of fundamental core values helps to define the true 
measure of a company  . When all employees 
are aligned with fundamental guiding principles, 
companies consistently serve their customers and 
other stakeholders and deliver superior financial 
results that ensure long-term success . Our core values are:
It Starts With the Customer
• Reliable service is our key to growth .
• Grow by understanding and meeting needs .
• Become easier to do business with .
• Own their problems – win their business .
People Make the Difference
• Every employee engaged and adding value . 
• Emphasis on professional and personal growth . 
• Expect a lot – have fun – celebrate success . 
• Treat each other with respect and dignity  .
Safety is a Way of Life
• Live safely for your family  .
• Take time to be safe .
• Look out for each other  .
• Safety affects customers .
Fact-Based
• Use customer-based performance measures .
• Fix the problem, not its symptoms .
• Improve performance with facts .
• Validate – don’t speculate .
Right Results, Right Way
• Reward our shareholders .
• Be a positive influence on communities and the 
environment .
• How you get there matters .
• Avoid fault-fixing .16 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS —  
COMMUNICATING WITH THE BOARD
We encourage active participation of our shareholders 
throughout the year  . We also invite our shareholders to 
our Annual Meeting, either by attending and voting in person or by voting through the other acceptable methods described in the Proxy Statement . 
Requests for communications with individual Directors 
or the Board are initially made through the Corporate 
Secretary  . In addition, we always welcome shareholders to 
communicate with the Board of Directors at the address 
below  . Shareholders may also request a free, printed copy 
of the CSX Corporate Governance Guidelines, the CSX Code of Ethics, the charters of each Board committee and Board policies at the address below or by visiting our 
website . 
CSX Corporation 500 Water St ., C160 
Jacksonville, FL 32202
A cross-functional CSX team – including representatives from finance, sales and marketing, accounting, legal, and corporate communications – works throughout the year to 
support the important outreach to investors and analysts .
In 2013, our work with investors was recognized by 
Institutional Investor Magazine . CSX was named a “Most 
Honored Company” as part of the annual All-America Executive Team survey, ranking first in the Airfreight and 
Surface Transportation sector  . The annual Institutional 
Investor rankings are based on votes from portfolio 
managers and analysts . Within the Airfreight and Surface 
Transportation sector, CSX received high marks in all 
categories, including the top awards for “Best Investor Relations,” “Best Investor Relations Professional,” and 
“Best CFO .”
In 2013, the investor relations team supported CSX 
participation at 16 investor conferences and meetings 
with nearly 700 investors in the Northeast, Midwest, West Coast, Mid-Atlantic and Canadian markets .
Governance Policies
We maintain a company-wide governance program that guides the coordination and implementation of and 
adherence to our core values, laws and regulations, 
as well as company policies and procedures . Our governance policies embody the high standards that 
employees, investors, customers, suppliers, communities 
and regulators expect . By ensuring we are doing the right things the right way, we can lay the groundwork for 
the success of the business, our stakeholders and our 
communities .Ethics . The CSX Code of Ethics lays out standards for the ethical behavior of all CSX employees, officers and Directors of the corporation and its subsidiaries . It covers 
such matters as conflicts of interest, insider trading, 
misuse of confidential information, compliance with laws and regulations, and proper use of corporate assets . 
Each year, management employees complete at least four 
training courses on ethics and compliance-related topics . 
CSX union employees are provided the opportunity to 
take an ethics training course, though it is not mandatory  . 
In 2013, 100 percent of our management employees 
completed the ethics course and approximately 69 
percent of union employees voluntarily completed the ethics training course .
CSX encourages employees to voice concerns any time 
they suspect a violation of the Code of Ethics or are 
unsure about undertaking certain actions . To provide 
guidance, we maintain a 24-hour CSX Ethics Helpline . This Helpline, along with an associated website, allows 
employees to report suspected misconduct and raise 
questions without fear of retaliation . In 2013, we received 1,356 inquiries via the Helpline, website and letters . When 
violations are uncovered during the investigation process, 
the Ethics team ensures appropriate action is taken to resolve the issue, which may include dismissal, and eval-
uates how to prevent future occurrences . The majority of 
issues addressed were related to employee conduct . CSX management discusses Helpline call activity, including the 
nature of calls and substantiation percentages, with the 
Audit Committee at least once a year  .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYSize of Board, year-end 2013 13
Number of male Board members 11
Number of female Board members 2
Number of minority Board members 3
Number of independent directors on the 
Board 12
Board member term length 1 year
Separate Chairman of the Board and CEO No
Lead independent director Yes
Board member training/education provided annually Yes
Annual Board member elections Yes
Review of compensation for non-management directors At least every 
 
3 years
Director resignation policy Yes
Annual review of Board independence Yes
Annual evaluation of Board functioning/performance Yes2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 17
Antitrust and corrupt practices policies . CSX main-
tains strict antitrust and corrupt practices policies . We 
believe in free and fair competition and compliance with 
antitrust laws . In general, these laws prohibit any agree-ment or understanding between or among a company and 
its customers, suppliers or competitors that unreasonably 
limits competition . The company expects all employees to comply with all U .S . antitrust and competition laws . As a 
result, our Code of Ethics includes detailed responsibilities 
for each employee and third parties doing business on our behalf, particularly in dealings with government officials, 
customers, competitors and suppliers . 
Risk management . Identification and management 
of compliance, external and strategic risks that could 
impede us from operating in the long term is central to continued business success . In 2013, we revised 
the risk assessment process to more closely align with 
our business strategy, ensuring that we are proactively identifying compliance, external and strategic risks in 
every aspect of our business . Risks within these three 
areas are routinely communicated to and reviewed by CSX’s Board of Directors or a committee of the Board . 
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors provides 
executive oversight to this enhanced risk management process . Going forward, CSX plans to further align risk 
management with the identification of material issues, 
particularly those that occur throughout our supply chain and are outside our internal operations .
Public Policy and Advocacy
CSX interacts with officials of federal, state and local governments and regulatory agencies on a daily basis 
in regard to many aspects of the business . We make 
responsibility and accountability the foundation of relationships with government . CSX complies with 
all laws and regulations when lobbying and making 
political contributions . In 2013, we developed guidelines for our employees regarding political activities and 
communications with government officials in an effort to 
ensure full compliance with federal, state and local rules . As a company, CSX issued a comprehensive corporate 
political giving policy that is publicly available on our 
Corporate Social Responsibility website . The Center for Public Accountability ranked CSX among the top six of 
large American companies for our political disclosure and 
accountability policies .
Lobbying . CSX employs lobbyists to advocate on our be-
half for issues of concern . Because of this, we are subject to federal and state laws governing lobbying contacts and 
the provision of gifts, entertainment and travel to public 
officials . We conduct annual training sessions for all our registered lobbyists and compliance is part of our overall 
ethics training for management employees . Political support . Through our government relations programs, CSX directly and transparently engages with 
public policymakers at the federal, state and local levels about the potential implications and consequences 
of legislative and regulatory actions on our business 
and stakeholders . We use direct lobbying, written communication and executive and expert testimony to 
engage on topics relevant to the rail industry  . 
Political contributions . Our contributions to state and local candidates are based on criteria such as an 
elected official’s location within CSX’s service territory, committee membership, voting record and positions on 
issues of interest to the railroad industry, with a strong 
emphasis on economic development and job creation . Political contributions to state and local candidates are 
determined by the Vice President for State Government 
and Community Affairs, with input from the Regional Vice President responsible for the state in which the candidate 
resides . Contributions are subject to oversight by the 
Executive Vice President for Law and Public Affairs and the Board of Directors’ Public Affairs Committee .
The CSX Good Government Fund (GGF) is an employee-
funded, nonpartisan political action committee . In 2013, 
CSX contributions through the GGF were $1,134,500 and 
$192,650 to federal and state entities, respectively  . CSX 
Corporation also contributed $335,150 to non-federal 
candidates, for a total of $1,662,300 . 
In addition, corporate political contributions are permitted 
under certain conditions in 12 of the 23 states in the 
CSX network: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, 
South Carolina and Virginia .
Independent expenditures and ballot measures . 
On a semiannual basis, CSX discloses expenditures, 
including independent expenditures and expenditures related to political advertising and other electioneering 
communications, made by the company and contributions 
made to third-party organizations such as public advocacy groups organized under Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal 
Revenue Code . 
Trade associations . CSX belongs and pays membership 
dues to a number of trade associations that promote 
and further the company’s business interests, from the railroads’ economic regulatory framework to corporate tax 
reform to policy, with the potential to impact key customer 
segments . We periodically evaluate our participation and support of these trade associations to ensure continued 
alignment with our business goals . Any portion of those 
dues and other payments used for political purposes is nondeductible under Section 162(e)(1)(B) of the Internal 
Revenue Code . 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYMarkets
The merchandise business includes nine markets in three sectors . 
Agricultural Sector:
• Agricultural 
Products
• Phosphates and Fertilizers
• Food and 
Consumer Industrial Sector:
• Chemicals
• Automotive
• MetalsHousing and 
Construction Sector:
• Forest Products
• Minerals
• Waste and Equipment CSX serves three primary lines of business: Merchandise, Intermodal and Coal .  
Our stakeholders in each market provide 
unique insight that we can leverage 
to ensure sustainable and responsible 
operations now and into the future .2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 19
Agricultural Products Market
CSX moved a total of 390,000 carloads of agricultural 
products in 2013 for revenue of more than $1 billion – a 1 
percent increase from 2012 . 
Volume decreased due to reduced shipments of corn 
and ethanol . Corn shipments for animal feed declined as 
drought conditions in the Midwest impacted 2012 harvest levels and carried over for the first three quarters of 2013 . 
Corn prices during this period were higher than normal 
and curtailed some of the ethanol and animal production during this time . Further contributing to the CSX decline, 
customers in the Southeast took advantage of lower-cost 
imported grains and a strong local crop, both of which are transported by truck . Ethanol shipments declined as a 
result of higher corn prices and reduced gasoline demand . 
The 2013 corn crop was a record 14 billion bushels and provided much-needed supply to the industry during the 
fourth quarter of 2013 and into 2014 .
MARKET STRENGTHS
Our network is well-positioned to meet the growing needs 
and demands of the country’s agricultural sector  . We 
currently serve:
• More than 280 grain elevators across the greater 
Midwest, transporting 23 million tons of grain and feed 
ingredients annually
• 120 feed mills in the eastern United States, over 45 of 
which are unit-train-capable facilities
• Over 50 grain-processing facilities, as well as a 
number of bakeries and soft drink production facilities 
throughout the eastern United States
• Five export grain facilities to support a 
growing export environment
• 20 ethanol unit-train unloading stations throughout the eastern United States 
• Five ports with capacity to handle import 
grain when necessary
We continue to focus on improving efficiency and maximizing asset utilization within the 
grain markets . During fourth quarter of 2013, 60 percent of our grain train business moved in our most efficient 
90-car train product . CSX also continues to emphasize 
our Express Load and Unload program, which offers additional savings on trains that our customers load, or 
unload, within 15 hours .
In addition, CSX continues to improve the efficiency of our 
ethanol network, as 10 of our 20 unit-train ethanol facilities 
can unload directly into storage tanks, thereby improving the utilization of equipment and improving terminal 
efficiency  . Both of these improvements reflect a continued focus 
on asset utilization in addition to larger unit size and have helped CSX invest in new car and terminal capacity 
to improve customer efficiencies within the agricultural 
market of our business .
MOVING FORWARD
CSX continues to develop new and more efficient facilities to serve our customers, including feed mills, ethanol 
unit-train unloading stations and grain terminals . With 
global demand for food and grain continuing to grow and U .S . crop yields increasing each year, CSX expects the 
agricultural business to remain a consistent strength for 
the company  .The majority of CSX’s agricultural traffic is domestic shipments that fit into two distinct markets:
• Whole grain product market, consisting of corn, soybeans and wheat
• Processed grains, consisting of feed ingredients, flour, edible oils, 
corn sweeteners and ethanolAgricultural
Products
Feed Mill
Flour Mill
Grain Elevator
Soy Processing
Ethanol Distribution Train Terminal
CSX Rail Network
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY20 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Phosphates and Fertilizers Market
In 2013, CSX’s phosphate and fertilizer business moved 
327,000 carloads for revenues of $527 million – a 3 
percent increase over 2012 . 
Volume was up year over year  . Fertilizer shipments were 
strong throughout most of the year, easing only in the 
last two periods as supply began to exceed demand in both the domestic and international markets . The spring 
planting season was strong right through the end of May, 
with more normal loadings during summer and early fall . Domestic producers responded to the end-of-year decline 
by taking certain plants and mines offline for maintenance 
and inventory control . This resulted in a short-term reduction in phosphate rock shipments at year end . 
Strong total carloads for 2013 were driven primarily by the 
resumption of cross-gulf phosphate rock moves through a CSX-served Tampa Bay port . These were shipped 
for processing in Louisiana following resolution of mine 
permitting issues in Florida in late 2012 . New business from existing phosphoric acid customers, increased 
export phosphate fertilizer, sulfur and potash offset flat 
performance or declines in other markets . 
With strategic access to one of the world’s largest phos-phate reserves, combined with valuable import and do
-
mestic nitrogen production facilities, CSX plays a vital role in meeting the world’s fertilizer needs . CSX is the steady 
leader in nitrogen, phosphate and potash fertilizer transpor
-
tation with unmatched access to key product resources .  
MARKET STRENGTHS
A central asset in CSX’s fertilizer market is the 
1,977-square-mile “Bone Valley,” located in central 
Florida’s phosphate mining area . About 55 percent of the 
North American phosphate market and 10 percent of the global market is served from central Florida production . 
Shipments depart from Tampa Bay area terminals and 
arrive at global destinations like India, Pakistan, South America, China and Australia . We also dispatch shipments 
of processed phosphates and fertilizers to receivers on 
other railroads throughout the East, Midwest, far West and Canada . In total, CSX serves four phosphate mines 
and four processing plants in the Bone Valley, plus five 
port facilities . In addition, we have access to phosphate production facilities in North Carolina and Mississippi and 
nitrogen production plants in Georgia, Ohio, Virginia and 
Ontario . Key strengths include:
• Service to five Tampa Bay port facilities providing water access for exports and trans-gulf shipments, including CSX’s Rockport Terminals facility at the Port 
of Tampa . With the August 2013 acquisition of Eastern 
Associated Terminals, Rockport Terminals now has 200,000 tons of covered storage capacity and in excess of 50,000 tons of open storage . Rockport alone handled nearly 1 .4 million tons of phosphate exports in 2013 and, combined with “Newport” (the former 
Eastern), handled over 2 .3 million tons in 2013 .
• Shuttle train operations that moved almost 19 .4 
million tons of phosphate rock and finished phosphate 
products within the Bone Valley, with much of the 
equipment in this service cycling within 36 hours .
• Domestic phosphate unit-train service that travels from 
the Bone Valley to the Midwest within four days and 
has the ability to handle four truckloads of dry or liquid fertilizer product with one railcar  .
• Access to nearly 100 domestic fertilizer warehouses capable of handling unit-trains and five nitrogen production facilities with liquid and dry nitrogen for 
direct shipment . 
• Access to 18 East Coast and Gulf Coast import 
terminals for handling foreign-produced liquid nitrogen 
fertilizer, dry nitrogen fertilizer, phosphate and potash . 
• Excellent connections at western gateways, which 
allow us to deliver potash originating in Saskatchewan, 
New Mexico and Utah to fertilizer receivers in the 
Midwest, Northeast and Southeast via unit-train and carload service .
• Service to two deepwater nitrogen solution import terminals in Wilmington, N .C ., and Theodore, Ala .
MOVING FORWARD
The medium- and long-term outlook for fertilizer is positive, thanks to an increase in global crop demand, 
rising commodity prices and the need to replenish nutrient 
levels of potash and phosphates in soil . Short-term fluctuations in the supply and demand for fertilizer and 
weather variabilities may impact shipments from time to 
time . Still, domestic and export phosphates will continue to grow as global demand increases for corn and grain 
consumption . In addition, low natural gas prices in the 
United States have resulted in a resurgence of interest in domestic nitrogen production . Several nitrogen production 
expansion projects have been announced in 2013, 
spurred by the shale gas boom . While in the early stages, the increase in production could contribute to significant 
growth opportunities for CSX . Going forward, this could 
also result in the United States becoming a net exporter of some nitrogen fertilizer commodities . Continued market 
fundamentals that support nitrogen and phosphate import 
opportunities, combined with new product offerings based on government regulations, will provide additional rail 
opportunities for urea-based solutions .
We will continue positioning the company for future growth 
by actively developing additional port and inland facilities 
in response to projected demand, efficiency and market expansion improvements . As a result, the overall market 
outlook for phosphate is moderately strong, with expected 
growth in the nitrogen, potash and phosphate markets . 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 21
Food and Consumer Market
CSX’s food and consumer business moved a total of 
96,000 carloads in 2013 for revenues of $269 million – a 1 
percent decrease from 2012 .
Volume declined due to a reduction in shipments of refrig-
erated products and alcoholic beverages . The decline in 
refrigerated products volume was driven by lower potato 
shipments as a result of more normalized production levels compared to the above-average yields in the prior 
year, while the decline in alcoholic beverages was primarily 
driven by a consolidation within a customer’s distribution network that resulted in fewer shipments for CSX .
MARKET STRENGTHS
CSX serves our customers through the reach and reliability of our network, as well as strategic partnerships with other 
transportation providers that help increase our speed of 
service and market reach . In addition, we offer:
• Direct lines to processing plants that produce food and beverage products, appliances and other consumer 
products .
• A large network of CSX-served warehouses that provide 
rail-to-truck transfers for non-rail-served receivers .
• Links to beverage producers and appliance manufacturers in Mexico via interline rail connections . While much of the company’s food and consumer 
volume is domestic, a growing portion of consumer 
goods originates in Mexico .
• A state-of-the-art service that transports a wide variety 
of cargo, primarily fruits and vegetables, from producer 
markets in California and Washington to key consumer markets in the Northeast . CSX and Union Pacific 
partner with Railex, an innovative distribution platform, 
to provide five-day service from the West to East Coast . The refrigerated boxcars used for Railex service feature 
enhanced insulation, energy-efficient cooling systems 
and GPS monitoring to ensure that customer goods remain properly stored throughout their entire journey  . 
This service is expanding to Southeast markets in 2014 .MOVING FORWARD
CSX’s food and consumer network is well-positioned to serve the food, beverage and appliance industry’s growing 
demand for rail service . Imports from Mexico are expected 
to increase in the appliance manufacturing 
sector through 2014 . As our food network 
extends into the Southeast in 2014, we will 
also offer additional service lanes in key growth markets throughout 2015 and 2016 . Overall, 
volume of the company’s food and consumer 
shipments is steady, and is poised for long-term growth .
Chemicals Market
CSX moved a total of 532,000 carloads of chemicals and petroleum commodities in 
2013 for revenues of nearly $1 .9 billion – a 13 
percent increase over 2012 . 
Volume growth was driven by a large increase in energy-related markets – including frac sand, liquid petroleum gas (LPG) and crude oil – that has been fueled by the 
nationwide increase in shale drilling activity  . Beyond the 
energy markets, traditional chemical markets like plastics 
and other industrial chemicals grew at a moderate pace, 
consistent with the relatively slow growth displayed by the 
overall U .S . economy  . 
The strength of CSX’s chemicals market lies in our ability to safely move thousands of carloads of chemicals each day over the breadth and location of the company’s 
network . We serve hundreds of chemical consumers, 
plastics converters, glass manufacturing plants, chemical plants and refineries . In recent years, shale drilling has 
had a major positive impact on the market, and presented 
a significant growth opportunity for chemicals-related transportation at CSX, given our network access to the 
Marcellus-Utica shale region and to several East Coast 
refineries . 
MARKET STRENGTHS
CSX is a major transportation service provider to the North American chemical and petroleum industries .  The 
business is highly diversified, with dozens of customers shipping hundreds of different commodities . 
Chemicals-related shipments primarily move in CSX’s 
single-car merchandise network . A large portion of the traffic originates on western railroads, due to the 
significant concentration of chemical production located 
in the Gulf states, with CSX mainly serving the chemical receiver market in the eastern United States .The main ingredients of CSX’s food and consumer market are:
• Dry grocery goods, which include alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, canned goods and dry packaged goods, accounting for half of consumer unit shipments 
• Temperature-controlled products, including orange juice and produce, representing more than one-third of shipments 
• Consumer products, including manufactured goods and 
appliances, making up the balance
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY22 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
While many of the traditional chemical and petroleum 
markets that we serve have been growth-challenged over 
the last decade, several new emerging markets have 
developed over the last couple of years, driven by a surge in natural gas and oil drilling activity in the United States . 
The key commodities – crude oil, natural gas liquids 
and frac sand – present an opportunity for continued above-average growth over the next few years . And, 
over the long term, the improved energy supply outlook 
for the United States creates a host of benefits for the nation, including a sustainable competitive advantage for 
domestic chemical producers . 
Shale drilling activity is driving a significant level of 
industrial development activity in the Marcellus-Utica shale 
region as customers seek strategic locations to handle drilling-related raw materials . In support of that activity, 
CSX’s frac sand business has grown four-fold 
over the last five years . The beneficial impact of increased natural gas supply is also drawing 
gas processing plants and potential new 
chemical plants to the area for the first time in several decades .
CSX transports oil to eastern U .S . refineries 
from the Bakken shale region in the West . Historically, 
crude oil has been supplied to East Coast refineries via 
ship, but the abundance of low-cost oil in the Bakken region and the lack of pipeline infrastructure in the East have changed that supply model . Rail service is now essential to quickly bridging the gap from oil field to refinery  . CSX can move a unit-train of crude oil from the 
Chicago gateway to the Northeast market in less than 48 hours . Several crude-by-rail shipments started in 2013 and more are expected in 2014, as infrastructure projects 
are completed to handle these large-volume movements . 
This opportunity comes with a great responsibility to ensure the safety of the communities in which we operate . 
For more information, see the Transporting Crude Oil 
Safely case study on pages 50-51 .
In addition to CSX’s network strengths, we also 
provide the most comprehensive access to bulk rail-to-truck transloading sites in North America through our 
TRANSFLO subsidiary  . TRANSFLO enables chemical 
shippers to leverage the economic and productivity 
benefits of bulk transloading to reach customers that are 
not directly served by rail or that lack the volume density 
to justify rail carloads .
MOVING FORWARD
Because of the shale gas boom, the proliferation of natural gas supply in the United States has pushed gas prices 
down to their lowest level in over a decade . Since natural 
gas is a primary basic component used in the production of a wide range of petrochemicals, the United States is 
now among the lowest-cost production regions in the 
world .
U .S . chemical companies are capitalizing on this newly 
improved competitive position by investing billions of dollars in domestic production capacity  . For example, 
recent announcements suggest that U .S . ethylene capacity could increase by 30 percent or more over the next five years . Though U .S . demand for ethylene-
derived petrochemicals is expected to grow at near-gross 
domestic product growth rates, the capacity additions that will take place over the next several years will far outstrip 
increases in U .S . demand . As a result, it is likely that U .S . 
exports of many of these petrochemicals, especially the plastic resin polyethylene, will see significant growth in the 
latter part of this decade .
All of this activity suggests that the transportation of 
chemicals and energy-related commodities presents a 
continuing growth opportunity for the company  .Shale drilling activity is driving a significant level of industrial 
development activity in the Marcellus-Utica shale region as customers 
seek strategic locations to handle drilling-related raw materials .Chemical
Plastic
Glass/Sand
Reﬁnery
CSX Rail NetworkChemicals
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23
Automotive Market
CSX’s automotive business generated 432,000 carloads 
in 2013 for revenues of $1 .2 billion – a 5 percent increase 
over 2012 .
Volume grew with North American light vehicle (NALV) pro-
duction, increasing 5 percent year over year  . The average 
vehicle age in the United States reached a record high of 
11 .3 years, and currency exchange rates are contributing 
to increasing NALV production . Manufacturers are shifting 
light vehicle production to the markets in which their vehicles are sold, to minimize supply chain disruptions and 
mitigate oscillating currency exchange rates .
The general U .S . economic recovery and structural 
changes within the auto industry are accelerating to the 
revival of the domestic auto business, increasing demand for CSX services . The company’s automotive market is 
benefiting from the industry’s overall recovery, improved 
credit availability, low interest rates, new vehicle launches and plant expansions .
MARKET STRENGTHS
CSX serves automotive manufacturing plants and assembly centers in eight states, and provides a network 
of world-class vehicle distribution centers with cutting-
edge inventory and facility management technology  . 
CSX also serves major vehicle port processing locations 
integral to the finished vehicle supply chain . Total 
Distribution Services, Inc ., a CSX subsidiary, manages vehicle distribution centers in 15 states . These attributes 
– in conjunction with industry-leading quality performance, 
operational excellence and ongoing investments in our multilevel fleet – distinguishes CSX and creates value 
by accelerating our customers’ product to market . 
CSX has strong relationships with traditional domestic manufacturers General Motors, Ford and Chrysler, as well 
as “New Domestics” Honda, Nissan, Toyota, Kia, Hyundai 
and Volkswagen .
MOVING FORWARD
The automotive market outlook for 2014 and beyond remains bright for CSX . While sensitivities to fuel prices, 
employment, parts supply output and U .S . fiscal policy 
may moderate progress, U .S . auto sales are projected to grow 3 percent in 2014 . Credit availability and low interest 
rates have led to the resurgence of both new vehicle 
sales and vehicle leasing, which will continue to positively impact production . This, in conjunction with the historically 
high average vehicle age in the United States, underscores 
our confidence in the forward-looking NALV production projections . Vibrant year-over-year growth projections 
are expected to result in NALV production surpassing the 
historic highs set in 2000 by calendar year 2015 . CSX partners with automotive manufacturers on various initiatives:
New Vehicle Lines
• Ford . Production levels catapulted with the new Ford 
Escape manufactured at the CSX-served Louisville, Ky  ., 
assembly center  .
• GM . Reopened the CSX-served Spring Hill, Tenn ., 
assembly center building the Chevrolet Equinox, where 
production levels continue to escalate .
• Nissan . New vehicle additions to Nissan’s CSX-
served assembly center in Smyrna, Tenn ., resulted in 
significant volume additions .
Regional Production Growth 
• Detroit’s Three . Detroit-area assembly centers at peak 
capacity utilization levels feed vehicles through CSX’s 
origin distribution center in New Boston, Mich ., for 
outbound rail distribution .
Supporting the Auto Industry’s U .S . Export Strategy
• Honda, Volkswagen, Chrysler, General Motors, Ford and Nissan . Vehicle exports destined to CSX-
served ports at Blount Island, Fla .; Brunswick, Ga .; 
and Curtis Bay, Md ., increased as a result of favorable currency valuations .Automotive
Distribution Center
Assembly Plant
CSX Rail Network
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY24 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
In addition, labor costs and favorable exchange rates 
are encouraging manufacturers to expand or move 
production back to the United States, resulting in 
increased exportation of U .S .-assembled vehicles . This “onshoring” of manufacturing extends to Mexico, where 
the three most recent North American assembly centers 
(Honda, Mazda and Nissan) commenced production in late 2013 . Future assembly sites such as Audi de Mexico are 
planned for 2015, while other manufacturers contemplate 
additional greenfield assembly sites in North America . The CSX franchise – in conjunction with capital investments in 
multilevel equipment and vehicle distribution centers, as 
well as our commitment to quality, operational excellence and applied technology – constitutes a strong, long-term 
value proposition that differentiates us .
Metals Market
CSX’s metals business moved a total of 262,000 carloads 
in 2013 for revenues of $644 million – a 1 percent increase 
over 2012 . 
In 2013, volume was flat as a reduction in steel sheet 
shipments was offset by growth in aluminum products and 
steel plates .
CSX’s metals market is closely tied to the performance of 
the steel industry  . Since the 2009 recession, economic 
and fiscal uncertainty in the United States and abroad has 
limited the pace and scope of the steel industry’s recovery  . 
MARKET STRENGTHS
Steel has long played a crucial role in the U .S . and global 
economies, so it is no surprise that the international 
steel marketplace has a direct impact on our domestic 
production, demand and transportation needs . Overall, CSX has more than 700 metals customers in its network 
and serves more metal-producing states east of the 
Mississippi than any other carrier  . We transport:
• More ferrous scrap than any other North American railroad 
• Sheet steel from every major producer to processing 
facilities and key end-use markets
• Millions of tons of bar, coiled rod and structural steel 
annually for the construction industry
• Hundreds of thousands of tons per year of alumina, ferroalloy and other raw materials to aluminum and steel producersIn fact, 87 percent of U .S . steel is produced within the footprint of CSX’s network . Our traffic is heaviest in the 
Indiana-Ohio region and along the East Coast, 
but the market is also expanding globally  . 
Our service and competitive pricing help steel 
customers expand their market reach . CSX de 
Mexico, for example, has been a key part of 
both import and export solutions and growth 
opportunities for CSX customers . The CSX metals market 
also benefits customers who are not directly served by rail 
with MetalNet, a specialized logistics service that connects our customers with a system of metal warehouses and 
transloading facilities .
MOVING FORWARD
CSX’s metals franchise is strategically positioned for 
growth in the coming years as domestic steel production 
makes steady improvements, with automotive, energy 
and construction end-markets driving growth . With our valuable customer network, strength in U .S . steel 
production and position in the steel market, CSX expects 
to deliver sustainable growth, not only as the economic environment continues to improve, but also in the form 
of share gains from modal conversions and new product 
development .87 percent of U .S . steel is produced within the CSX network footprint .Metals
Steel Facilities
CSX Rail Network
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 25
Forest Products Market
CSX’s Forest Products business unit moved a total of 
298,000 carloads in 2013, generating revenues of $775 
million – a 7 percent increase over 2012 results . 
Steady improvement in the housing and associated 
markets bolstered both revenue and volume growth for the 
business unit during 2013 . While demand for packaging paper was strong, and woodpulp remained stable, inroads 
made by electronic media are creating less demand 
for printing paper and related products . Despite these continuing market shifts, Forest Products remains an 
integral part of CSX’s portfolio .
CSX plays a critical role in the entire North American Forest 
Products industry  . We serve two distinct market segments, 
and dedicate our employees, capital resources and service 
packages accordingly:
PAPER PRODUCTS
Paper products consist of packaging products (containerboard, linerboard and corrugated medium), printing paper, newsprint, magazine and catalog paper, woodpulp and scrap paper  . CSX has access to 67 paper 
and woodpulp mills, along with numerous box plants and 
printing facilities throughout our partnering networks .
BUILDING PRODUCTS
Building products include lumber, panel, OSB, wallboard, 
bricks, roofing products and other materials related to the 
residential and commercial construction industries . 
Other important commodities include biomass (wood 
pellets) as a sustainable fuel source, and woodchips, used 
as a feedstock for both paper and biomass production . 
MOVING FORWARD
CSX is strategically focused to work with suppliers, receivers and distribution centers to 
meet their increasing needs as the residential 
and commercial construction markets regain 
strength . The paper industry, as it continues to evolve, 
will find CSX a significant part of their supply chain needs, 
offering both superior service and equipment . CSX also sees potential biomass growth in Europe, as regulations 
are demanding the increased consumption of renewable 
fuels .
Minerals Market
CSX’s minerals business unit moved a total of 275,000 carloads in 2013 for revenues of $432 million – an increase 
of 6 percent over 2012 . 
Volume growth was led by an increase in salt shipments 
due to modal conversions, new customer distribution 
terminals and inventory replenishment from more severe winter weather in early 2013 that resulted in more 
application of salt to roads . 
Revenue increases were delivered across all eight lines of 
business, led by salt, aggregates and limestone .
Aggregates are among the major minerals shipped over 
the CSX network and are used in producing asphalt and 
concrete for the construction of homes, retail and office buildings, and roads .
KEY DRIVERS
There were two key drivers to our minerals business unit growth in 2013:
• Salt volumes were strong in 2013, driven by weather conditions, depleted inventories and the introduction of 
new salt piles in more marketsThe forest products market includes both  
paper products and building products .
Forest Products
Packaging Paper Mill
Printing Paper Mill
Pulp Mill
CSX Rail Network
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY26 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
• Scrubber limestone volumes strengthened in 2013, 
driven by additional trains running into various utilities 
across the network
MARKET STRENGTHS
Each of the businesses affords opportunities for CSX to 
work with our customers to identify new rail movements . 
There are many opportunities to grow rail volume for the 
major commodities within this portfolio, including aggre-gates, salt, limestone, cement, fly ash, slag, lime and clay  . 
• CSX has a number of quarries, distribution yards and lime kilns along our network that serve large power 
plants, steel mills and mining operations . Our presence 
in the Southeast, especially in Florida, puts us in a favorable position in one of the fastest-growing regions 
as the U .S . economy recovers .
• CSX is well-positioned to handle a surge in salt 
demand into many cities across the Mid-Atlantic and 
Midwestern portions of our network, with salt piles 
strategically placed . 
MOVING FORWARD
Residential, commercial and public construction markets are gradually recovering . We are increasingly optimistic 
about greater highway construction spending and capital 
relinquishment in 2014 . CSX is expected to benefit from the demand for cement and aggregate materials . An increase in steel capacity utilization will aid lime volume growth . The sustained revival of the construction market 
will be a key growth driver, as will our continuing efforts 
to stimulate demand for our service by selling the value of rail and CSX’s economically and environmentally friendly 
supply chain solution . The salt (de-icing) market should be 
a strength for us as new salt piles are being introduced . Also, a harsh winter weather pattern is expected to drive 
demand to a level not seen in some time . 
Waste and Equipment Market
CSX’s Waste and Equipment markets business moved 
a total of 150,000 carloads in 2013 for revenues of 
$264 million – a 1 percent increase over 2012 . Volume 
increased due to additional waste shipments . Movements for both industrial waste and municipal and construction 
waste markets were significantly higher  . The increase in 
industrial waste shipments reflected strong volumes from 
remediation projects and, in particular, the GE Hudson 
River dredge project in New York . The municipal and 
construction waste market benefited from an improving economy and increased construction activity  .
Overall, this business generated slightly increased revenues in 2013 on a moderate increase in volume . 
These markets represent industrial waste, municipal and 
construction waste, military equipment, machinery and transportation equipment, with some of these being critical 
bellwether industries in the U .S . economy  .
KEY DRIVERS
Three key drivers in this business are waste, machinery 
and transportation equipment . 
• The company saw a significant increase in municipal, construction and remediation waste shipments in 2013, 
driven by more construction activity and a generally 
improving economy  . Industrial waste shipments 
increased approximately 40 percent; several new and 
existing remediation projects contributed to the large 
volume increase . Revenues were also up 17 percent versus 2012 . There was a 10 percent increase in the 
municipal and construction waste market, driven by 
movements of municipal solid waste and construction debris . Revenues were also up 10 percent compared to 
prior year  .
• With respect to the machinery market, shipments 
were down significantly, almost entirely due to fewer 
wind energy-related shipments . There was also some 
decrease in movements of farm and construction equipment . The decrease in wind energy shipments 
was attributed to the uncertainty as to whether 
Congress would extend a crucial industry production Minerals
Lime
Aggregate
Cement
CSX Rail Network
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 27
tax credit . The credit was eventually extended, but 
not before orders and production were negatively affected . Other segments of the market – including 
boilers, turbines, transformers and other project 
cargo – performed well . In total, however, the market saw significant decreases in carloads and revenue 
compared to 2012 .
• The transportation equipment market 
includes the movement of empty rail cars, 
locomotives and railroad parts . In 2013, the 
volume was down 5 percent against 2012; however, revenue was even with prior year 
results .
MARKET STRENGTHS
Each of the businesses affords opportunities for us to 
work with customers to identify new rail movements . 
There are many opportunities to grow rail volume for 
the major commodities within this portfolio, such as waste (industrial, municipal, remediation) and machinery 
(agricultural, construction, power generation) .
• The CSX system makes it possible to move waste streams long distances to large regional landfills with 
more competitive pricing than local disposal facilities . We serve a diverse set of customers, including metal 
processing, steel, paper, chemicals and waste-hauling 
companies .• Machinery shipments typically consist of heavy agricultural, construction and power-generation equipment . CSX is a low-cost alternative to trucking, 
especially when moving domestic shipments and those 
headed for export through various ports along the Eastern seaboard .
MOVING FORWARD
Residential and commercial construction markets are demonstrating a solid recovery  . Additionally, an expected 
increase in commercial activity in the Northeast should result in more opportunities to handle construction and demolition debris shipments by rail . The sustained revival 
of the construction market will be a key growth driver, 
as will our continuing efforts to stimulate demand for our service by selling the value of rail and CSX’s economically 
and environmentally friendly supply chain solutions .
In addition, we have many long-term opportunities in 
municipal solid waste disposal projects, as well as several 
major remediation ventures that will keep waste moving on our lines for many years to come . Power generation is also 
poised to rebound as major infrastructure replacement 
projects are developed in the future . The renewal of the wind energy production tax credit in early 2013 will 
support further development and provide additional 
transportation opportunities for CSX . 
Intermodal Market
CSX’s intermodal business delivered 2 .6 million units in 2013 for revenues of $1 .7 billion – a 6 percent increase 
over 2012 . 
In 2013, intermodal volume increased due to growth 
in both domestic and international markets . Domestic 
shipment growth resulted from highway-to-rail conversions, increased demand from both new and 
existing customers, and service product enhancements, 
many enabled by the Northwest Ohio terminal . International growth was driven by steady import/export 
recovery, a solid intermodal service product and favorable 
comparables following disruptions caused by Hurricane Sandy in 2012 .In 2013:
• Industrial waste shipments increased approximately 40 percent
• Municipal and construction waste increased 10 percent
Waste and
Equipment
Waste
Machinery
Landﬁlls
CSX Rail Network
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY28 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Intermodal provides key benefits to shippers looking to 
optimize their transportation networks and supply chains:
Scalable capacity  . Intermodal solutions provide access 
to a large and growing fleet of both rail-owned and 
privately owned containers, easing shippers’ capacity 
concerns year-round, including during peak seasons . Intermodal scales to meet shipping needs efficiently, with 
the ability to move a load of 280 trucks on one train .
Sustainable savings . Intermodal advantages, such 
as lower fuel consumption and freight density through 
the double-stacking of containers, produce cost savings for shippers and their customers . Additionally, 
the environmental favorability of intermodal provides a 
responsible growth engine for sustainable freight transport (see page 34) .
Flexibility  . With the most intermodal lanes in the eastern 
United States and nationwide connectivity, CSX meets the 
dynamic needs of today’s freight flows .
PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS  
Expanding capacity on U .S . rail networks provides 
substantial public benefits, including job creation, 
increased business activity at U .S . ports, reduced highway 
congestion and lower emissions . This is why CSX and our government partners are working jointly to invest in multiyear rail infrastructure projects such as the National Gateway  . Spanning multiple states, this approximately 
$850 million public-private partnership will increase intermodal capacity and create substantial environmental and efficiency advantages by clearing key corridors 
between Mid-Atlantic ports and the Midwest for double-
stack intermodal trains . 
The company’s Northwest Ohio intermodal terminal, 
which became operational in 2011, is the cornerstone 
of the National Gateway and the company’s long-term 
growth initiatives . This high-capacity terminal expands service offerings to customers, improves market access 
to and from East Coast ports and consumption centers, 
and enhances the fluidity of the network . In 2013, CSX completed the first phase of the National Gateway 
clearance effort, allowing double-stack trains to run 
between Chambersburg, Pa ., and the Northwest Ohio facility  .
Additionally, as part of the National Gateway initiative, CSX announced plans to build a Pittsburgh, Pa ., terminal 
in McKees Rocks and we anticipate that we will begin 
construction of that facility in 2015 . These projects further enhance CSX’s intermodal offering and will support future 
growth and highway-to-rail conversion, as well as help 
to mitigate the impact of freight transportation on the highway system .
CSX provides intermodal service to major markets  
east of the Mississippi, scheduling more than  
600 trains per week through the 48 terminals it serves .Top 10 Intermodal Customers  (in alphabetical order)
• APL
• CMA CGM
• Hapag Lloyd
• Hyundai
• J .B . Hunt
• Maersk
• Mediterranean Shipping
• Pacer
• Schneider National
• UPS
Intermodal
Flow
CSX Rail NetworkNumber of Cars
LOW HIGH
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29
INTERMODAL TERMINALS
CSX directly serves 48 intermodal terminals on its network in 19 states and in one Canadian province . These 
terminals serve as transfer points between rail and trucks . Cities with more than one terminal are listed with a 
number  .
(in alphabetical order by state/province)
• Bessemer, Ala .
• Mobile, Ala .
• Jacksonville, Fla . (2)
• Orlando, Fla ./Winter  
Haven, Fla .* 
• Tampa, Fla .
• Atlanta, Ga .
• Fairburn, Ga .
• Savannah, Ga . (2)
• Chicago, Ill . (2)
• East St . Louis, Ill .
• Evansville, Ind .
• Indianapolis, Ind .
• Louisville, Ky  .
• New Orleans, La .• Baltimore, Md .
• Springfield, Mass .
• Worcester, Mass . (2)
• Detroit, Mich .
• Kansas City, Mo .
• Kearny, N .J .
• North Bergen, N .J . (2)
• New York/New Jersey  
Port (3)
• Buffalo, N .Y  .
• Syracuse, N .Y  .
• Charlotte, N .C .
• Wilmington, N .C .
• Cincinnati, Ohio
• Cleveland, Ohio• Columbus, Ohio
• Marion, Ohio
• Marysville, Ohio
• Northwest Ohio
• Chambersburg, Pa .
• Philadelphia, Pa .
• Montreal, Quebec
• Charleston, S .C .
• Memphis, Tenn .
• Nashville, Tenn .
• Portsmouth, Va . (3)
*Orlando, Fla. terminal transitioned 
to Winter Haven, Fla. terminal in 
April 2014.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY30 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
ADDITIONAL MARKET STRENGTHS
Intermodal continues to gain momentum as a go-to 
transportation mode for a variety of products across 
highly complex supply chains, including consumer 
goods, appliances, manufacturing, packaging products, electronics, food and beverage items, furniture, and 
more . The need for intermodal transportation in the 
United States is on the rise . At CSX, we are positioned to capitalize on that growing demand with:
• A strong presence in key population centers, including 48 directly served terminal locations predominantly east 
of the Mississippi River
• Access to all major ports on the Atlantic and Gulf 
coasts
• Seamless network interchange with other rail carriers to enable efficient intermodal solutions with truck-like service levels across the United States and into both 
Mexico and Canada
• Superior service connectivity between markets – not 
only in major freight corridors, but also in traditionally 
difficult to serve second- and third-tier markets due 
to CSX’s network strategy, which includes point-to-point service in high-density lanes and hub-and-spoke 
capability to efficiently serve lower-density and smaller 
markets
• Cutting-edge technologies that increase operational 
and service efficiencies and promote sustainable 
supply chains, while enhancing safety and security
• Continued success stimulating Highway-to-Rail (H2R) 
conversions, due to increasingly competitive and 
reliable service, a focus on customer needs and efforts to educate the Beneficial Cargo Owners directly on the 
value of intermodal
MOVING FORWARD
The company expects steady intermodal growth, 
and international growth in this area will be guided by 
continuing economic recovery, expansion in international 
trade, a sustained intermodal service product and the strong relationships CSX has with the port and 
ocean carrier communities . CSX’s domestic intermodal 
business has grown eight years in a row – a trend we expect to continue . CSX will pursue incremental growth 
opportunities through new market and service expansion 
and accelerated H2R conversion by working with shippers to realize supply chain optimization . 
In addition, CSX continues to make capital investments 
in our terminal network beyond the scope of National 
Gateway efforts . During 2013, construction progressed 
on a new intermodal terminal in Valleyfield, Quebec, that will expand CSX’s network reach into the Montreal market, 
set to open in late 2014 . We also advanced our plans to 
begin serving the new Central Florida Intermodal Logistics Center (CFILC) in Winter Haven, Fla ., beginning in April 
2014, in anticipation of an enhanced market position to 
serve Central and South Florida .
CSX’s investments for growth are intended to facilitate rail 
solutions for the roughly 9 million addressable truckloads in the eastern freight market .
Coal Market
CSX’s coal business moved 1 .2 million carloads in 2013 for revenues of $2 .9 billion – a 9 percent decrease 
from 2012 . 
Utility coal burn increased in 2013 due to a colder winter 
than in 2012 and a rise in natural gas prices from the 
previous year  . The increased burn was supplied from 
existing inventories, returning stockpiles in the north to 
more normalized levels while southern inventories remain 
above normal . Even with higher natural gas prices in 2013, Central Appalachian coal plants were still load-following 
generators . Export coal had a good year, with 44 million 
tons shipped . Export volume was down 8 percent from 2012, a record year, due to over-supply in the global 
market .
Responding to community concerns, a new 8200 Tariff 
provision was issued in 2013 to address fugitive coal dust originating from rail cars carrying metallurgical coal on Coal
Coal Port Location
Coal Utility Location
Coal Reserves
CSX Rail Network
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 31
Top 10 Coal Customers 
Producers
• Alliance Resource Partners
• Alpha Natural Resources
• Arch Coal
• CONSOL Energy
• Eagle Industries
• James River Coal
• Patriot Coal
• TECO Coal
• Vectren Fuels
• Walter Energy, Inc .Receivers
• AK Steel
• Alpha Coal Sales
• Consumers Energy
• Duke Energy Carolinas LLC
• Georgia Power
• Jim Walter Resources Inc .
• South Carolina Public Service Authority
• Tennessee Valley Authority
• United States Steel Corp .
• XCoal Energy & ResourcesCSX’s network . The tariff requires freight payers to ensure 
that CSX coal origins loading met coals are utilizing a load-out chute with a “bread loaf”-shaped profile and that 
an effective dust suppressant is applied to the surface of 
each railcar  .
MARKET STRENGTHS
CSX serves approximately 110 active coal mining operations . We participate in the delivery of coal to nearly 
130 different destinations . The vast majority of the coal 
we move originates in the Appalachian and Illinois Basin coal fields that lie within our 21,000-mile network . We 
take great care to ensure that the value of our network, 
as measured by our customers, continues to grow and evolve with their changing needs .
MOVING FORWARD
During 2014, coal-fired generation is expected to increase . The below-normal 2013-2014 winter temperatures 
significantly reduced natural gas inventory, causing natural 
gas prices to rise . Coal-fired generation will be required to enable natural gas inventories to build . In the longer term, 
CSX expects coal-fired generation to remain an integral 
source of electricity given its low cost and the utility industry’s ability to adapt to regulatory changes . While the 
industrial markets will remain challenging, the integrated 
steel market for coal is forecasted to be stable to positive through 2018 . 
Export coal volumes in 2014 are expected to remain 
under pressure due to elevated international supply  . 
Over the long term, CSX expects our export business to continue to grow, benefiting from increasing coal demand in Europe, Asia and South America . CSX is well-positioned 
to capitalize on international market growth through our 
access to large U .S . coal suppliers and multiple port facilities .The CSX network:
• Runs through the heart of the Appalachian coal fields
• Serves the growing Illinois Basin coal fields 
and major interline connections to railroads 
originating Western coal
• Reaches major coal export terminals at Newport 
News, Va ., Baltimore, Md ., and Mobile, Ala .; as 
well as Great Lakes coal terminals at Ashtabula and Toledo, Ohio, and several terminals along 
the inland river system
Coal Flow
CSX Rail NetworkNumber of Cars
LOW HIGH
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYCustomer Successes
• CSX received another record-high customer satisfaction 
score during 2013 .
• CSX collaborated with customers to develop 121 new or expanded facilities on our rail network or its connecting short-line partners, representing $3 billion 
in customer investments and more than 1,600 new job 
opportunities .
• CSX expanded our Service Excellence efforts across 
the company to continue building a culture of service 
through continuous training, communication and recognition . Customer Challenges
• Balancing understandable community and key stakeholder concerns regarding potential local impacts 
with the need to build and expand our terminals and 
network to meet the growing needs of the markets and our customers in a timely, cost-effective way  .
• Expanding our capacity to capture the estimated 9 million truckloads in the East that could be converted to rail or intermodal . 
• Continually innovating our operations on pace with increasing customer demands .Value Chain:  
Customers and Suppliers2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 33
CSX interacts with customers and suppliers frequently 
to understand their needs and priorities . Through this 
process, we are able to identify and manage material 
issues across the supply chain early on, ensuring we provide quality service and grow our business sustainably  . 
At CSX, “it starts with the customer  .” Our operational 
success is built on our employees’ focus on providing 
customer service at the highest levels . Our customer 
service ideals equate safety and service; we provide safe, efficient and reliable freight transportation solutions for 
customers while creating value for shareholders . Internal 
and third-party shipper surveys confirm that CSX customer service was at an all-time high in 2013 . 
Driving a Culture of Customer Service
Service Excellence . In 2013, CSX further enriched the customer experience by focusing on Service Excellence . 
Launched in early 2012 in the Chicago and Nashville 
divisions, and subsequently rolled out to all 10 operating divisions, Service Excellence expands on our core values 
“It Starts with the Customer” and “People Make the Difference” by helping every employee recognize that what they do ultimately impacts the customer experience .
The initiative encourages employees to actively identify and 
resolve customer concerns, improving their experience 
and ultimately growing our business . This process engages all of our operational employees, as well as employees 
in sales and marketing, and, ultimately, our customers . 
Higher levels of customer service and satisfaction support CSX’s ability to profitably grow the business through 
increased customer retention, price sustainability and 
asset utilization .
CSX offers many cross-functional forums for our 
customers to share their ideas on topics such as railroad operations and electronic commerce . We also provide 
workshops to enhance our customer partnerships . In 
2013, more than 20 customer workshops – around subjects like technological advancements, customer 
service, market trends and local service – were completed 
across all divisions, with an average participation of 20 customers per session . Management Approach and Plans Ahead
As a transportation company, we have a unique and important part to play in the business of America . We serve as the link to move essential products from point A to point B . In 
this role, we can leverage the environmental and economic benefits of rail transportation 
to provide value to the entire supply chain, from customer to consumer to community  .We are setting new benchmarks for Service 
Excellence. Combined with innovative 
technology and company-wide dedication 
to enhancing the customer experience, 
CSX is poised to continue as the leading 
rail transportation provider in the country.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY34 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Every month, each operating division also hosts a Service 
Excellence meeting . These meetings, attended by 
representatives from a variety of departments, allow the 
cross-functional group to work together to solve customer concerns and discuss growth opportunities . Through this 
increased communication, we can identify and resolve 
customer issues across the network quickly, improve the customer experience and grow our business . 
CSX will continue to build this Service Excellence program 
going forward . For example, we will continue to engage 
with customers to understand their everyday business 
and decision-making, so we can anticipate and better serve their needs . In addition, instructor-led Service 
Excellence classes will be offered across the company’s 
network in 2014 . The Service Excellence 2014: Success in Partnerships interactive course demonstrates how a focus 
on customer service and collaboration has helped drive 
success at CSX . 
ONE Plan . We use advanced network modeling analytics 
and network tools, collectively called the ONE Plan, to design and run our traffic networks . By using the ONE 
Plan, the company can identify the most efficient, cost-
effective routes for customer traffic to provide timely service with the least handling and fewest car miles 
possible . These service improvements have enhanced our 
ability to deliver strong growth in the intermodal market .
Total Service Integration (TSI) . TSI is intended to align 
operating capabilities with customers’ needs to reduce loading and unloading times and create more capacity  . 
TSI was first implemented on the unit train network, where it has successfully increased the average number of cars per train and improved asset utilization . CSX is now 
implementing TSI for the carload network, which focuses 
on improving the “first and last mile” service experience for carload customers, providing a more consistent and 
reliable service product . The carload network is connected 
to more than 5,000 customer facilities and has a high degree of variability each day  . New tools and technology 
are allowing the company to more effectively communicate with customers, not only providing the service we have promised to deliver but proactively notifying the customer 
of service status . Applying TSI to the carload network will 
improve service consistency for each merchandise shipper  .
Service STARs . Our Service STAR program is designed to reward employees who consistently embody our core value, “It Starts with the Customer  .” The Service STAR 
(“Service That Achieves Results”) award is available to both contract and management employees whose day-to-day focus on Service Excellence has made a positive impact 
on the customer experience . More than 600 Service 
STARs were awarded in 2013 . Nominations are based on direct customer feedback, primarily through third-party 
surveys . Award winners receive a plaque and monetary prize, and are typically recognized by their peers in Service 
Excellence or team meetings . 
Environmental Benefits of Rail
As a progressive railroad, we ensure we have the capacity to serve not only today’s needs, but also the needs of 
tomorrow  . A typical CSX freight train is, on average, 
four times more fuel-efficient than highway freight 
transportation, and can carry the cargo load of 280 trucks . 
As a result, we help our customers to avoid and/or reduce 
emissions that would otherwise be generated from more carbon-intensive modes of transportation . We recognize 
that, as environmental concerns continue to grow in 
significance, we must leverage the value our industry can bring to our customers .
Our intermodal business is a key driver of CSX growth, 
representing 40 percent of overall volume and expected 
to increase further, reflecting the attractive economic value 
of converting freight from highway to rail . In 2013, we had continued success stimulating highway-to-rail (H2R) 
conversions because of our focus on customer needs and 
efforts to help our customers understand the benefits of H2R through summits and other engagement activities . As 
a result, we helped our customers convert 53,000 loads 
from highway to rail . 
We now connect more markets than ever before, 
increasing the use of cost-effective and environmentally friendly freight rail transportation . CSX employs a dual 
intermodal strategy that includes high-density corridors, as 
well as a hub-and-spoke philosophy that creates service density to open new small- and medium-sized markets . 
We believe this strategy makes us unique in the intermodal 
marketplace . The completion of the first phase of double-stack clearances in the National Gateway initiative will 
create a more efficient rail route to link Mid-Atlantic ports 
with Midwestern markets . When the National Gateway is complete in 2015, the percentage of our intermodal traffic 
moving in double-stack lanes will be in the mid-90s . 
To prepare for long-term growth, we are building new 
terminals to expand our reach in markets such as central 
Florida, Pittsburgh and Montreal, and investing in existing terminals to further increase efficiency throughout our 
network . The new Central Florida Integrated Logistics 
Center in Winter Haven, Fla ., will serve as a centralized hub for transportation, logistics and goods distribution, 
anchored by a new 318-acre intermodal terminal . 
Developed in 2013 and opening in 2014, the site has been revitalized from its previous uses as wastewater treatment 
spray field, overland flow area and sludge disposal area for 
the adjacent City of Winter Haven Wastewater Treatment Plant . The terminal is one of CSX’s most progressive 
projects yet, and sustainability was an important part of the 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 35
site development . Please see the environment section on 
page 58 for more details .
Customer Engagement and Collaboration
Customer Advisory Councils . Our Customer Advisory Councils enable intermodal and merchandise customers 
to provide insights to CSX regarding rail solutions and 
service improvements, especially in the first and last mile . 
We invite 12 merchandise customers to serve a two-
year term as advisors to our Commercial and Operations teams . To keep the voices on the Advisory Council fresh, 
we periodically rotate members so that we have a good 
representation of industry, company size and focus at the table . In 2013, CSX rotated in six new members to 
the Advisory Council . They meet with CSX twice a year 
to discuss what is working well and areas that need improvement . These sessions are a valuable opportunity for CSX to listen to customers’ perspectives and provide 
them with updates . 
The Advisory Council has been an important partner in 
many of the new technology advances made over the 
past couple of years in our customer service, including ShipCSX tools that provide real-time information to 
customers about the status of their current service orders . 
See the ShipCSX spotlight on page 39 for more details . 
Voice of the Customer survey  . CSX launched a 
customer satisfaction assessment program in 2002, 
inviting customers to share their feedback and provide 
suggestions for improvement . We use an independent 
firm to survey customers on a wide range of factors that influence their sense of satisfaction . These factors include 
speed and consistency of service, problem resolution and 
ease of ordering . Total Service Integration
It started with the ONE Plan . The ONE Plan 
transformed CSX into a scheduled railroad, optimizing the network for service and efficiency  . The TSI Vision 
is to deliver first and last mile service excellence to customers, enabling profitable carload growth .
Our customers have helped define our focus .  
In Voice of the Customer surveys, customers across  all industries told us four things:
1 . Show up when you told us you would2 . If you can’t, tell us in advance
3 . Improve the customer service experience
4 . CSX is an extension of our customers’ companyThe first phase of TSI carload is to reduce the amount of variability and inconsistency in the first and last mile service product for our customers . Ultimately, 
we plan to improve service reliability by improving our 
internal process and measurements and integrating the voice of the customer to create a culture focused 
on providing a better service product . The TSI carload 
journey is evolutionary and as service for our customers continues to improve, we will start to pilot and redesign 
our service offerings to produce a next generation 
service experience for our customers .
Current Focus
2010 2014–2020Improved ReliabilityBetter ServiceIntegrate the
“Voice of the 
 Customer” Improve Internal
Processes and
MeasurementPilot
Redesigned
ServiceNext-Generation
Service and
Experience
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY36 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
This “Voice of the Customer” survey asks customers to 
evaluate CSX’s performance across three main areas:
• Planning – account management, rate inquiry and order management
• Service – shipping instructions, local service, order fulfillment and equipment quality
• Customer Assistance – damage prevention, tracking 
information, customer service and financial settlement
In 2013, CSX received our highest score ever from customers, highlighting our sustained operating success . 
Collaborating with customers . Beyond our business 
relationships, we collaborate with customers to share 
investment in the economic growth of our communities . In 2013, CSX and our customers worked together to develop 
121 new or expanded facilities on our rail network or 
connecting short-line partners . These facilities represent $3 billion in customer investments and more than 1,600 new 
job opportunities .
The increasing development on the company’s network 
reflects steady expansion in the national economy  . The 
transformation in the energy sector is driving opportunities 
for new facilities serving the chemical and manufacturing 
sectors across the network . This growth illustrates the 
value of capital investment to our communities, as well as the economic and environmental benefits that rail 
transportation provides to industry  . To encourage sustainable rail-related industrial 
development, CSX’s Select Site program reviews potential 
manufacturing and distribution development sites along 
the network that could easily utilize freight rail service . This process confirms that standard land-use, utility and 
environmental concerns have been addressed and that the 
site is ready for development by businesses considering operations along the rail line . The Select Site program 
also helps local communities to identify sites that could 
bring new jobs to the area through capital investment . Customers considering a new or expanded location can 
learn more at the CSX Select Site website . 
Spotlight: “It’s not one customer, it’s an industry  .”
In 2013, favorable weather led to a record crop year 
for grain, and CSX estimated the need for more than 90 trains to move the fall harvest. As a result of effective planning, industry collaboration and asset management, we were able to increase turn times so that only 84 trains were needed to get the job done. Multiple groups across CSX worked together, enabling the company to deliver value to customers and the entire supply chain under challenging circumstances. 
Deciding to do things differently  . During our initial 
asset calculations, we did not anticipate having enough 
trains to move the record harvest. Rather than lease more cars, CSX decided to maximize train velocity. 
We used our Service Excellence process to facilitate 
communication across the company and line up the appropriate resources for success.
The CSX Service Excellence process in action . Train 
masters talked directly to customers, explaining the need for quicker turn times. We made contact at the facility, commercial and network operations levels, communicating efficiently and effectively to make the best decisions. 
We put the tools in play  . We surround our high-
efficiency facilities with Geographic Information System 
(GIS) Geofences, which are location-based virtual perimeters that provide detailed information about the locations of our trains. The Geofences allow the company to gather data and metrics that aide decision-making and planning. Such technology, in conjunction with communication tools, enables more consistent and routine operations with fewer disruptions, and provides quick answers to problems that may arise.
Through flexibility, innovation and collaboration, we 
were able to exceed client expectations while delivering a record freight. This dedication to our core values is central to sustained success.Overall Satisfaction Score, CSX Proprietary Survey  (indexed to 2008) 
020406080100120
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008113110106102105100Voice of the Customer Survey Results
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 37
Spotlight: Helping America Grow through Our Northwest Ohio Intermodal Terminal
In 2011, CSX opened a state-of-the-art $175 
million intermodal rail facility in Wood County, Ohio. Situated on more than 500 acres, the Northwest Ohio Intermodal Terminal is a world-class, sustainable freight distribution hub for the Midwest and the nation. The terminal provides nearly 300 full-time, local jobs and spurs growth and economic opportunity by improving access to cost-effective, environmentally friendly intermodal freight rail transportation. 
In 2013, U.S. Vice President Joe Biden and U.S. 
Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx visited the facility. They took part in a driving tour and training simulator demonstration and met employees and 
local residents. The Vice President, Secretary of 
Transportation and CSX executives discussed the importance of infrastructure investment in improving America’s competitiveness, strengthening the middle class and growing the American economy.Handling 30 trains per day and moving hundreds of thousands of containers per year, the terminal links East Coast seaports with vital points in the Midwest, such as the markets of Cincinnati, Columbus and Louisville. The terminal has created new routing possibilities and growth opportunities for inland locations and permits faster, more reliable transit from the West Coast, allowing shippers to bypass congested areas like Chicago. 
The Northwest Ohio Intermodal Terminal is the center 
of CSX Transportation’s intermodal network and the cornerstone of our double-stack freight initiative, the National Gateway.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY38 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Customer Service Innovation
We have designed our efficient shipping process around 
the way our customers do business, using innovative 
tools and services to help them manage their shipments 
at every step . For example, operating rules prevent train crews from using traditional forms of communication, 
such as mobile phones, while operating a train . However, 
conductors can now electronically update a customer with a more accurately estimated time of arrival by using 
electronic onboard work order devices . These devices, 
which are similar to tablets, have cell cards that allow them to communicate directly with Customer Service Center 
servers . Such technologies help us proactively respond 
to the needs of our customers, provide transparency and facilitate communication . 
Our list of customer tools includes:
• ShipCSX .com . This site uses the most up-to-date 
information available to save time and reduce errors that can cause shipment delays . ShipCSX helps the 
customer plan, ship, trace and pay for shipments 
quickly and efficiently with secure data that is specific to their company  .• Carbon Calculator  . Customers are able to choose 
from a number of variables – from the type and volume of goods transported to the length of the route – to estimate the average carbon emissions reduced by 
shipping via rail . The tool plays an important role in 
helping our customers optimize their supply chains as they bring goods to market more sustainably  . CSX 
was the first Class I railroad to build a publicly available carbon calculator  .
• Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) . EDI is the exchange of data between computer systems using standard document formats known as transaction 
sets . It benefits our customers by reducing costs for 
administration and materials and processing data more quickly and accurately  . 
• Interactive Voice Response (IVR) Plant Switch . This secure telephone system allows customers to 
request placement of loaded or empty cars and release 
empty cars back to CSX using a telephone instead of a computer  . 
• Touch Trace . This tool allows the customer to obtain tracking information over the phone, at any time and 
from any place, with Touch Trace Telephone Tracking .
• Junction Look-up . This routing guide helps our customers find the most efficient junctions for 
exchanging traffic with our connecting carriers . 
• Market Manager Look-up . Customers can easily use search criteria to find a market manager for a commodity  . 
Over the past five years, our customers have 
invested more than $14 billion in rail-served facilities, 
generating more than 14,000 jobs at industrial plants, 
distribution centers and other facilities .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY
2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 39
Spotlight: Excellence in Customer Experience with ShipCSX
ShipCSX provides online shipment management 
and tracking tools for customers to plan, ship, trace and pay for shipments quickly and efficiently. CSX customers can log onto the computer-based tool to access secure data that is specific to their shipments. 
ShipCSX:
• Uses the most up-to-date information available. 
• Saves time and eliminates costs associated with 
phoning and faxing.
• Reduces errors that can cause shipment delays.
• Returns real-time confirmation of transactions.
• Provides around-the-clock service for the customer’s convenience.
The ShipCSX Unit Train Management tool allows customers full visibility en route to their destination. Through the secure ShipCSX online portal, customers can also easily place orders for new shipments, view 
a calendar of orders and review details. The Shipment 
Pipeline view shows scheduled orders sorted by estimated arrival time.
Customers can also use the Plant Switch functionality 
to release empty cars and send switch requests without having to pick up the phone or create a list. As a result, our customers can better manage their cars and save money through added efficiency.Additional tools like My Work Order and Work Order Exception Notices provide further transparency to our customers, giving them real-time information about work to be performed on a given day, including how many cars will be placed and pulled, and notification of any delays or reschedules. Work Order Exception Notices are also sent to Customer Service, who monitors the work until it is completed to the customer’s satisfaction.
We designed ShipCSX to ensure the customer 
experience is simple and convenient, and to provide them access to the entire life cycle of their shipment for peace of mind.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYSupplier Successes
• CSX maintained strategic relationships with suppliers 
who provide commodities critical to supporting the 
infrastructure and operations of our railroad . 
• CSX participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s 
Supply Chain program for the first time, where 50 of 
our largest suppliers provided information about their 
carbon emissions attributable to CSX . 
• CSX collaborated with the Province of Quebec and 
the City of Valleyfield to develop local supplier capacity 
in Canada in advance of the opening of our new intermodal terminal .Supplier Challenges
• Ensuring supplier diversity when there are a limited number of railroad equipment suppliers due to the cost 
and sophistication of core rail equipment . 
• Continuing diligent risk management of our suppliers, 
particularly those with whom we have high spending 
and those to whom we outsource operations .
Our suppliers are an extension of CSX. Because 
of this, we hold them to the highest standards for 
ethics, integrity, efficiency and safety to ensure 
mutual benefits across our supply chain.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 41
Supplier Selection
CSX procures all materials, supplies and services through 
a centralized, competitive supplier selection process . 
We use a team-oriented and cross-functional approach 
that maximizes savings in total costs, including long-term maintenance and environmental costs . 
At the start of the procurement process, which applies to 
purchases or contracts that are above a specified financial 
threshold, the CSX Procurement team establishes goals 
and a timeline for the project, conducts research and benchmarking, solicits supplier input, accepts supplier 
qualifications statements, and after careful evaluation, 
awards the contract .
CSX makes procurement decisions based on a variety of 
criteria such as prior industry experience, health and safety programs and performance, environmental performance, 
quality and logistics of materials and services, and labor 
policies and programs related to diversity and non-discrimination to ensure we meet the needs of customers . 
Contract negotiations are not simply about cost . Our 
procurement process is an integrated process, and we 
work with internal and external stakeholders to secure 
the highest-quality equipment while looking at long-term sustainability  . This, in turn, presents an opportunity for our 
suppliers to share innovative ideas . 
It is very important that we keep pace with technological 
advancements in the rail industry  . CSX procurement 
managers collaborate with suppliers and other partners to 
enhance our processes, consider total cost of ownership 
over cost of purchase, and identify technology that 
increases fuel efficiency  . 
Supplier Code of Conduct and Auditing
Our core value “Right results, right way” ensures we conduct business fairly, ethically and honestly, no matter 
the circumstances . We expect our business partners to 
share this core value, and have in place a set of guidelines and expectations for all suppliers . Last year, we distributed 
our updated Code of Ethics to our key suppliers to ensure 
they had the most current version . We communicate new policies or important changes in policy with suppliers 
as well . In addition, suppliers that spend more than six 
weeks a year on CSX sites must undergo annual rail safety training . 
CSX’s contract language requires suppliers to uphold all 
laws and regulations, respect human rights and maintain 
corporate policies that support diversity and non-
discrimination . A specially trained team of supplier quality auditors reviews supplier policies and procedures for both 
product and service quality to determine the extent to which they reflect CSX values . We focus these audits on 
suppliers with product quality concerns or a new location 
or product line . Our auditors examine facilities to gauge 
safety, environmental and other quality factors . When instances of noncompliance are identified, we provide a 
five-step corrective action plan to the supplier  . 
Business Continuity 
The CSX Procurement Team plays a strategic role to 
ensure the company has the materials needed to run 
our operations . Any disruption to our service could result 
in significant impact on communities and businesses across the country if we are unable to transport goods for 
customers who provide essential services . 
We rely on our suppliers to ensure we always have the 
materials necessary to operate and prevent service 
disruptions . While the railroad industry currently has a relatively small pool of suppliers that can meet ongoing 
demand for steel-based products, and with few new 
entrants into the market, we are working to develop new suppliers consistent with our expectations . Spotlight: Developing Local Supplier Capacity in Quebec, Canada
In spring 2013, CSX began construction on a new, 
$107-million intermodal terminal in Salaberry-de-Valleyfield, Quebec. When fully operational in 2015, this new terminal is expected to handle up to 100,000 containers per year using high-capacity intermodal cranes and serviced by trains through our Northwest Ohio intermodal hub. This project is a public-private partnership, with both the Province of Quebec and the City of Valleyfield committing more than $20 million in public funds. 
We realize that this terminal has the potential to 
spur economic development in the area, and we are in the process of developing local supplier 
capacity to assist us in this expansion. CSX is 
committed to working with local companies and has partnered with the Beauharnois-Valleyfield Chamber of Commerce to promote job opportunities. This spring, our procurement team held a pre-bid meeting in Valleyfield that was open to numerous Canadian companies. We are also working with local stakeholders and hosted a supplier forum in 2013 to develop these companies in advance of the opening of the terminal. We look forward to ongoing discussions with these companies to build the supply base in this new area for CSX. 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY42 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Wherever there is a sensitivity or supply risk, the 
Procurement Team actively works to mitigate that 
risk . Our supplier selection processes ensure potential 
suppliers have the proper management practices in place to consistently provide us with the goods and services 
we need . Partnering with the best suppliers ensures 
continuity for the business and uninterrupted service for our customers .
Considering Supplier Sustainability
As business trends towards more sustainable and transparent operations, we have evolved programs and 
processes to consider not only our environmental, social 
and economic impacts, but also the impacts of our suppliers . For example, our Supplier Performance Rating 
System tracks supplier performance through scorecard 
measurements . This allows CSX to communicate with suppliers about their performance related to quality, 
delivery and cost, and identify areas for potential process 
improvement and cost reduction . 
In addition, to help the company better understand 
how suppliers are addressing sustainability issues, we developed a series of sustainability-related questions that 
were added to our annual supplier quality assessment . 
We review supplier responses as part of the supplier evaluation process . CSX is working to increase the 
number of new suppliers evaluated for sustainability  . 
We believe it is important to recognize suppliers that are fully embracing sustainability in their businesses . In 2013, 
CSX honored Eagle Paper, a long-time supplier of janitorial products to our locations system-wide, with our Corporate 
Social Responsibility Award . Eagle Paper employees 
partnered with the Arc of Jacksonville – an organization that provides work opportunities to adults with disabilities 
– to teach Arc participants about inventory and distribution 
management for a large customer  . This program aligns 
with our core values, and we appreciate Eagle Paper’s 
dedication to the local community  .
Participating in Carbon Disclosure Project 
Supply Chain
CSX participated in CDP Supply Chain for the first time in 
2013 . CDP’s supply chain program aims to drive action on 
climate change among both purchasing companies and 
their suppliers . The program provides a platform for CSX to collect business-critical climate change data from our 
suppliers . We asked 50 of our largest suppliers to identify 
the proportion of their GHG emissions that they can attribute to business with CSX . In 2014, we are extending 
this effort to a greater number of suppliers in alignment 
with our risk management strategies . 
In addition, CSX is providing new opportunities for 
customers to understand the benefits of shipping their goods by rail . These customer forums allow companies 
to collaborate, work through logistical challenges that 
occur when changing shipping methods, and quantify the sustainable benefits provided by CSX . In 2013, CSX 
was assessed to have scored an A in performance and 
was included on the CDP Supplier Climate Performance Leadership Index, which recognizes companies that are 
measuring, verifying and managing their carbon footprint .
CDP Supply Chain provides additional transparency to customers
CSX Direct Response
Responses from 
CSX’s 50 largest suppliers
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 43
Supplier Diversity
To recognize the diverse makeup of the 
communities we serve, we work to develop 
business relationships with a wide range of 
suppliers . The company has implemented a procurement process that provides 
opportunities for all suppliers, regardless of 
any social or economic distinctions such as age, race, creed, color, sex, ancestry or 
national origin . While we cannot give minority 
suppliers a preference that would result in an unfair competitive advantage over other 
suppliers, we have initiated a Minority Supplier 
Purchasing Program through participation in various minority councils .
The CSX Supplier Diversity Program ensures 
that all business enterprises have an equal 
opportunity to supply required services 
and commodities . We also support and participate in the work of public and private 
organizations that promote purchases from 
diverse firms, as we believe this helps to foster economically sustainable communities . 
The company works with businesses that are 
certified as diverse through agencies such as the Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council (WBENC), National Minority Supplier 
Development Council (NMSDC) or state and federal certifying agencies . We serve 
as a corporate member of these councils, 
and representatives from our Procurement Team participate in national events for these 
organizations every year  . In addition, CSX 
is aligned with other Class I Railroads in a 
Transportation Industry Group that is focused 
on aligning, advocating and developing 
diverse suppliers on best practices within the rail industry  . We are looking for ways to 
collaborate with the airline industry, as well .
 CSX maintains a relationship with a third-party firm that reviews and confirms the qualifications of diverse suppliers . In 2013, our diverse 
spend was over $150 million . Women and veterans represent the 
largest demographic reported for this period . This spend includes transactions with over 200 businesses and represents about 15 
percent of our supply base . The supplier diversity program not only 
supports our supply base but also our customers . We report diversity activities on a quarterly basis to nine strategic customers supporting 
over $1 billion in revenue in industries such as automotive, chemicals 
and logistics .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYSuccesses
• CSX led the rail industry in safety in 2013, with the 
lowest rate of personal injuries .
• CSX invested $2 .3 billion in 2013 to maintain, innovate and expand our network and ensure our operations are safe and efficient .
• CSX worked closely with communities, customers and government partners to safely and reliably move new energy products such as crude oil and liquefied 
petroleum gas .Challenges
• Continuing to address public concerns about the safe 
transport of hazardous materials and crude oil by rail . 
• Ensuring that communities, employees and the environment are provided a meaningful Standard of Care in incident response .
• Working to prevent fatalities at our work sites and along our tracks, further reduce our accident and injury rates, and achieve our ultimate goal of zero accidents or 
injuries to get every CSX employee home safely  .
• Protecting 21,000 miles of unrestricted real estate from 
trespassing, theft, damage and other hazards . Safety2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 45
Public Safety
We recognize that our operations affect every community 
along our tracks and it is critical that we prioritize the safety 
and well-being of the public . We ensure every aspect of 
the business reflects our commitment to public safety  . CSX 
has a long history of working with community emergency 
first responders on a variety of planning, preparation and 
response training programs . We believe in providing a meaningful Standard of Care that anticipates the needs of 
people and communities, focuses on their safety, restores 
their lives and protects the environment should an incident occur  . In 2013, we established a new vision for a CSX 
Standard of Care and began to train and build awareness internally of our evolving view of public safety  .COMMUNITY AFFAIRS AND SAFETY
To engage and protect our communities, the company maintains a dedicated Community Affairs and Safety Team . 
This field-based group of men and women is strategically 
placed throughout the CSX network and works closely with communities, employees and industry partners . 
The team comprises an array of railroad experience, 
backgrounds and education, making it well-suited to handle the unique concerns and situations that arise when 
operating a freight rail company  . At CSX, we strive to be 
good neighbors and emphasize community relations and 
public safety in all facets of the business, from planning 
and risk management to operations to emergency 
response . Management Approach and Plans Ahead
Safety is the foundation of CSX and we work diligently to protect those affected by our business, including the public, as well as our employees and network . Through 
community engagement, technological innovation, dynamic communication, effective 
training programs and collaboration with our peers and partners, we ensure we are operating thoughtfully, safely and responsibly  .
Safe actions should be proactive and preventive, but we also place significant attention on our ability to respond to the unforeseen . CSX employs procedures that consider both aspects of truly safe behavior  . And, though we led the industry in employee safety and 
train accident prevention in 2013, we are continually focused on ways we can improve our safety and accountability to customers and stakeholders going forward .Our commitment to safety defines who we 
are at CSX. The passion and training of every 
employee allows us to provide the most 
reliable rail service to our customers while 
keeping our communities safe above all else.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY46 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
In 2013, we saw a 7 percent increase in pedestrian 
fatalities and injuries on our network . We continually focus 
on increasing awareness around crossing safety and the 
dangers of trespassing on railroad property through the programs described below  .
Play It Safe . In 2013, we expanded our Play It Safe campaign, which stresses the importance of safety 
around trains and tracks, by partnering with Front Row 
Motorsports and Sprint Cup driver David Ragan . Their #34 car featured an “I Brake for Trains” bumper sticker for 
each race, and we enjoyed three primary sponsorships 
throughout the season . These partnerships provide an effective way to communicate our message to the target 
age demographic most at risk – 18- to 34-year-old males .
CSX will continue these partnerships in 2014 and will serve 
as the primary sponsor at five races: Daytona International 
Speedway in February, Darlington Raceway in April, Michigan International Speedway in August, Richmond 
International Raceway in September and Charlotte Motor 
Speedway in October  .
We have also paired our railroad safety message with thought-provoking billboards and public-service announcements, and we are currently in the process of 
tracking the effectiveness and reach of this campaign 
through social media, as well .
Operation Lifesaver . CSX has a longstanding partnership 
with Operation Lifesaver, a nonprofit organization whose purpose is to raise public awareness about rail safety  . 
Operation Lifesaver’s mission is “to end collisions, deaths and injuries at highway-rail grade crossings and on rail property through a nationwide network of volunteers who 
work to educate people about rail safety  .” In the past three 
years alone, CSX has contributed more than $1 .3 million to 
Operation Lifesaver in support of this mission . CSX employees actively spread Operation Lifesaver’s message about rail safety by engaging with community 
members in the areas we serve . For example, in 2013, 
CSX employees provided 19 trainings to local law enforcement officers and 23 trainings to first responders 
across our network . In addition, CSX employees give 
safety presentations to schools, driver education classes, professional driver organizations, community groups and 
other audiences . In total, our volunteers reached 33,000 
people through these presentations in 2013 .
CROSSING SAFETY
Crossings, or intersections where a railway line crosses a road or path at the same level, can be very dangerous 
areas prone to car and pedestrian accidents . CSX 
conducts highly visible safety campaigns to provide information about the potential hazards of highway-rail 
grade crossings and protect the public from the dangers 
along our tracks . 
Sign visibility is essential . We have a program in place 
to clear-cut trees and vegetation, giving motorists a better view of our tracks as they approach crossings . CSX 
was also the first railroad in the United States to adopt 
a system-wide highway-rail grade crossing emergency notification sign program . These signs provide a means 
by which the public can report malfunctioning warning 
signals, vehicles stalled on the tracks or any other emergency situation .
Alternate means of crossing . Both federal and state 
governments discourage new grade crossings and have 
adopted programs to eliminate them by constructing 
bridges or by diverting traffic to existing overhead, subgrade or at-grade crossings . We fully support these 
policies and programs, and are firmly opposed to the 
establishment of new grade crossings . 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYDavid Ragan, Front Row Motorsports driver2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 47
The safest crossing is a closed crossing . 
Grade crossing incidents on CSX’s network increased to 329 in 2013, up 2 percent from 
2012 . Through the initiatives outlined above, 
the company is continuing to focus our efforts to raise awareness about crossing safety and 
lower the number of grade crossing incidents 
on our network . 
In addition to the crossings that intersect with 
public roads and highways, many crossings are located on private property  . In these cases, 
CSX works with private land owners to identify alternate access routes to the property and remove crossings where feasible . In 2013, we 
operated an aggressive private road crossing 
program with a goal to close 45 crossings . In every case, the purpose for closing 
crossings is the same: to lessen the likelihood 
of a crossing accident and enhance public safety in our communities . By working with 
communities and direct users, we exceeded 
our goal, closing 52 private crossings . In total, CSX closed 257 crossings in 2013, 
increasing road safety and decreasing the risk 
of incidents .
Moving forward . In 2013, there were 207 fatalities 
reported as a result of pedestrians walking on or crossing our tracks at undesignated locations . As playgrounds, 
schools, retail establishments and other public facilities 
are built closer to our tracks, it becomes even more challenging to prevent pedestrian fatalities and injuries . 
However, CSX is focused on identifying new and innovative 
ways to decrease the risk of incident through our programs and community engagement . We are also exploring ways 
to reach the public through traditional and social media, as 
well as other means, to convey the danger of trespassing on railroad property  .
INCIDENT RESPONSE PROGRAMS AND  
DERAILMENTS  
The prevention of derailments is a top priority in the 
railroad industry  . We thoroughly consider all aspects of our 
operations to ensure appropriate safety equipment and processes are in place to avert these critical situations . However, we are also prepared to quickly and safely 
respond to derailments along the network when they 
occur  . An important piece of our response is meaningful 
and frequent communication with the public or other 
affected parties .
Incident response training . Training of emergency first 
responders is integral to our public safety mission . And, 
although prevention is our most important goal, we also have a responsibility to work with emergency planners and community first responders to develop effective 
responses to rail-related emergencies . CSX operates a 
state-of-the-art hazardous materials training center at our system training site in Atlanta, Ga ., and maintains 
a staff of experienced field-based hazardous materials 
specialists who collectively provide thousands of training hours annually to public first responders using a variety 
of formats . The staff conducts classroom training in 
firehouses throughout the system, as well as realistic crisis management tabletop exercises to help first responders 
more safely manage a rail emergency  . CSX also uses 
several other training methods, including a computer-
based training program and a self-study course . Given 
recent concerns over the transportation of crude oil by rail, 
we are providing additional oil-related emergency training during 2014 . 
Local emergency planners often want to know what 
hazardous materials move through their communities and, 
for over 20 years, CSX has provided this information on 
request . We regularly distribute our Community Awareness Emergency Planning Guide, which outlines information 
related to emergency planning and agency preparedness, 
and describes the company’s responsibilities and response protocols . The Guide also provides a list of the top 25 
hazardous materials we ship annually  . 
Additionally, we are part of a unique public-private partnership with state homeland security fusion and 
emergency operations centers to provide near-real-time information to trained agency personnel via the CSX Incident Notiﬁcation Process Overview
Train Incident Occurs
Train Crew surveys scene and notiﬁes dispatch
Conductor works with 
local ﬁrst responders
CSX PSCC notiﬁes CSX Crisis
Communication Managers and 
local public response agencies
CSX Crisis Communication Managers  
contact local, state and federal authorities;
and manage response logistics for CSX
CSX On-Scene Hazardous 
Materials Field Service Manager
 coodinates the on-scene responseEmergency Response Agencies
manage the incident; 
coodinate with media; provide 
local EMS, ﬁre, police supportTrain Dispatcher notiﬁes CSX operations and 
Public Safety Coordination Center (PSCC)
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY48 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
SecureNOW system . The electronic transfer of information 
to local first responders allows these personnel to promptly 
identify the location, type, direction and contents of every 
rail car in the train – including all hazardous materials . This system is in place in 19 of the 23 states in which we 
operate, and is also used by the Transportation Security 
Administration, U .S . Department of Transportation (U .S . DOT) and CHEMTREC, the chemical industry emergency 
communication center  . 
Standard of Care . Established in 2013, the CSX Standard of Care program is designed to deliver prompt 
incident response that is:
• Developed through best practices and standards of service .
• Focused on the needs of people, families and 
communities during and after an incident .
• Empowered through communication and collaboration 
with responders and others invested in providing the 
Standard of Care .
• Conveyed through sincerity and empathy until our task 
is complete .
Through this program, we are prepared to meaningfully address the critical health care, business and 
communication needs of our communities and employees . 
Our Standard of Care team also focuses on building our 
team and training our employees to ensure preparedness 
and continual improvement . PUBLIC SAFETY COORDINATION CENTER  
The CSX Public Safety Coordination Center (PSCC) acts as our 911 call center  . Its mission is to protect the public, 
CSX employees and CSX property by fielding calls on safety or security conditions . The PSCC is staffed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, with 25 dedicated employees . 
We encourage the public, government agencies, 
employees and customers to alert CSX of any potential 
emergencies, including crossing malfunctions, blocked 
tracks, crossing accidents, hazardous material releases, thefts and vandalism, trespassing, and unsafe employee 
driving . Each railroad crossing station contains signage 
indicating the emergency phone number  . 
When necessary, the PSCC dispatches police and other trained CSX safety and security personnel to respond to calls as quickly as possible . 
SELECT PSCC METRICS
2012 2013
Total Calls  278,652  264,990 
Total Event Reports  25,999  38,852 
Average Events per Day  71  106 Derailment response . In November 2013, a four-car derailment in Willard, Ohio, caused a 
puncture in a railcar, which resulted in the leak 
of styrene monomer, a flammable liquid . An estimated 700 families were evacuated after the 
incident, and no injuries were reported .
CSX personnel worked with local police and 
firefighters to clean up the remnants of the spill 
and investigate the cause of the derailment . Crews diligently worked to vacuum all spilled 
liquid and remove the affected soil in the spill 
area . To protect residents, CSX and federal environmental officials conducted air monitoring, 
which showed that trace air emissions were well 
below dangerous levels . The company is still investigating the cause of the derailment, and will 
continue to prioritize the communities impacted 
by our operations under all circumstances . Please see our community engagement section 
on page 97 for more details .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYKey Elements of the Standard of Care Program
Critical Needs
Heath Care: Acute Needs
Health Care: Supplemental Care
Work/Business Issues
Communications Issues2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 49
TELLCSX SERVICE  
CENTER
To respond to questions and 
concerns from communities, we 
maintain a phone and internet 
hotline called TellCSX . Through this widely used hotline, we can 
effectively gather information to 
promptly address potential safety hazards or community concerns . 
Inquiries or concerns related to 
train horn noise, rough crossings, real estate, construction projects 
or other issues can be submitted 
to a live operator during normal business hours . CSX is the only 
Class I railroad to provide a 
central hotline for the public to call about non-emergency 
issues . In 2013, TellCSX processed nearly 32,000 calls, 
generating more than 13,000 issues raised by members of 
communities along CSX’s network . Call volume increased from the 30,000 calls received in 2012 that generated 
more than 14,000 issues raised .
When an issue is identified by the TellCSX team, 
it is elevated to the appropriate CSX department . 
Community relations representatives then engage with local communities and members of the public to resolve 
the concern . Our goal is to provide a quick, informative 
response to the community  .
Network Safety and Security
The CSX network runs through thousands of communities across the country, each of which is affected by our 
operations . Operating safely in each of these communities 
includes taking appropriate measures to protect our infrastructure and our customers’ cargo . We spend 
significant time and resources throughout the year to 
ensure the network is properly maintained, and we look at leading-edge technologies that will make the network even 
safer in the future .
We understand that members of our communities 
may be concerned about the types of materials we 
transport, including crude oil and hazardous materials . In collaboration with local, regional and federal governments 
and law enforcement agencies, CSX has established 
programs and training that allow us to operate safely with minimal disruption to our neighbors . The CSX Police 
Department and Infrastructure Protection team are further 
examples of our dedication to safety across our network . INNOVATING FOR SAFETY  
We believe that there is no ‘status quo’ for safety  . 
Every moment and every action is an opportunity for 
improvement, refinement and innovation . CSX invests 
in cutting-edge technologies that allow the company to operate in measurably safer and more reliable ways . 
In total, we invested approximately $2 .3 billion in 2013 
towards enhancing the network .
Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) . The Value and 
Innovation Crew (VIC) is a cross-functional team that  works to develop creative solutions for some of the 
company’s greatest challenges . Throughout 2013, 
our eighth VIC class explored UAV, a new aerial drone technology that could improve our efficiency while keeping 
people out of harm’s way  . 
These drones, equipped to stay airborne for approximately 45 minutes, could provide CSX employees a bird’s eye 
view during bridge inspections, terminal surveillance, first responder assistance and other common operational 
activities . Using autonomous flight aircraft technology 
to navigate high-definition cameras around work sites, project operators will be able to view live streaming video 
of potentially dangerous and once hard-to-reach spaces 
– all while situated safely on the ground . We are excited to explore how this new technology can be implemented in 
the field in the future . 
Enterprise asset management (EAM) . EAM is a 
comprehensive approach for managing assets with an 
emphasis on improving reliability, utilization, unit cost and safety  . The approach includes both process and 
technology improvements, with specific focus on lifecycle management of our locomotives, railcars, facilities and track-related infrastructure . Recent implementations 
include systems that streamline the track signal installation 
and testing process, an enterprise process for prioritizing facilities investments, and improvements to facilities and 
locomotive work management .
Asset health strategic initiative . In order to prevent 
potential accidents, CSX is partnering with the other Class 
I railroads to implement an asset health strategic initiative . Working with these railroads allows us to pool resources 
and share information and trends, ensuring more thorough 
results . CSX is using devices across our railroad network to assess the condition of our infrastructure and railcar 
assets . As of 2013, we are about a third of the way 
through the implementation process, and we will continue to collaborate across the industry to implement this 
important system .Contacting CSX
Railroad emergency? 
CSX Public Safety 
Coordination Center 
1-800-232-0144
TellCSX 
1-877-835-5279
CSX Ethics Helpline 
1-800-737-1663
CSXConnect 
1-800-633-4045
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY50 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Case Study: Transporting Crude Oil Safely
Changing Energy Mix in America
The development of the shale oil industry represents a 
tremendous opportunity for our nation to move closer to energy independence . In fact, the United States is 
expected to become the world’s largest oil producer 
by 2020 . Rail has a critical role in the safe and efficient transport of North American crude oil to refineries 
and terminals . As with all operations at CSX, that 
opportunity comes with a great responsibility to ensure the safety of the communities in which we operate .
Nationwide, the railroad industry transported 
approximately 430,000 carloads of crude oil in 2013, 
with one carload equaling approximately 700 barrels 
of oil . CSX’s crude oil rail shipments rose from 9,000 carloads in 2012 to 46,000 carloads in 2013 . In 2014, 
shipments could double . Most of the crude oil we ship 
originates in the Bakken oil field in North Dakota and is transported in 100-car unit trains .
While crude by rail is an area of significant growth, 
current volumes represent approximately 1 percent of 
the company’s overall traffic, making crude by rail a 
very small part of the business .
Constant Focus on Safety
CSX and our industry peers are working very closely 
with communities, first responders, public officials, 
regulators, customers and suppliers to ensure that the most effective safety practices are rigorously applied 
to the transport of oil and other hazardous materials . 
In 2013, we adopted additional safety measures including making crude oil unit trains a part of the 
industry’s definition of a “HazMat Key Train,” the most 
closely monitored trains . This designation includes instituting a 50 mph speed restriction, stringent 
inspection requirements and taking certain precautions 
when meeting or passing another train . A train crew is always assigned to an oil train when outside of a 
rail yard except under extraordinary circumstances . 
In these cases, the train would be immobilized and locked down .
We have implemented or are well on our way to 
meeting additional requirements agreed upon by 
the Association of American Railroads and U .S . Department of Transportation that will become 
effective July 1, 2014, including:
• Routing analysis for crude oil trains
• Further reducing crude train speeds in high threat 
urban areas
• Accident prevention through inspections and 
additional wayside technology
• Local emergency first responder training and tuition assistance
• Railroad emergency response resources and 
capabilities
• Enhanced train braking systems
• Continued outreach to local communities along key crude oil train routes
As part of our efforts to further coordinate with com-munities, we are significantly expanding our already 
extensive training programs for first responders . Beginning in May 2014, CSX’s Safety Train, with rolling 
classrooms and specialized hands-on training, will 
travel over much of the company’s primary crude oil service territory  . This enhanced training offers fire fight-
ers, police officers, emergency medical technicians and other first responders insights on how rail cars work and how to deal with rail incidents .
Additionally, the U .S . DOT issued an emergency 
order in May 2014 requiring railroads to notify State 
Emergency Response Commissions when moving 
crude oil trains meeting certain criteria through their states . CSX will continue to partner closely with state 
and local governments to meet these requirements as 
part of the company’s commitment to public safety  .
CSX continues to deploy special technology, called SecureNOW, to security and emergency management officials so that they can track oil and other hazardous 
materials shipments in virtually real time . SecureNOW 
is now used by 19 of the 23 states in which CSX operates . The technology provides law enforcement 
and other federal and state public safety officials with 
access to confidential data on the location of CSX trains . 
Further, we are actively participating in the U .S . DOT’s 
ongoing review and analysis of additional issues 
relating to the safe transport of crude oil – including 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 51
CSX Crude Oil Network
Eddystone
AmocoWestvillePerth AmboyToledoAlbany
Walnut H illTuscalo osa
SaralandDelaware  City
SavannahLemont
Joliet
RobinsonWood RiverWhiting
Mt VernonCatle ttsburg
Belle ChasseGaryville
MerauxNorcoDetroit
Pascag oulaLinden Port Reading
Canton
LimaToledoWarren
MemphisNewellMarcus Ho ok
Philad elphia Trainer
Paulsbo ro
Mobile
Terminals
Reﬁneries
CSX Rail Networkthe strengthening of tank car standards 
and proper shipper classification of oil – 
and will continue to support a disciplined 
approach to addressing further safety enhancements . 
To fully realize the benefits 
that these domestic energy 
resources provide, CSX and its 
partners must ensure that the 
safety of people, communities 
and the environment remains a top 
priority  . The safe transport of these 
products is a business imperative 
for CSX and its customers that we 
approach with a sense of urgency 
and responsibility  . We will continue to 
work with communities, first responders, 
regulators, legislators, energy producers, 
rail car owners and our customers to make 
the safe transportation of energy products 
even safer  . 
Ongoing Communication 
To foster an open conversation with the public, 
we have launched a content-rich website to 
serve as a resource for interested community members and other stakeholders . We want 
to educate visitors about our services and 
perspective and encourage feedback . 
Visit our website specifically dedicated to this 
topic at www  .csxcrudebyrail .com .For example, in 2013, the Association of American Railroads, joined by the 
American Shortline and Regional Railroad Association, called for the Pipeline 
and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration to require all existing general service tank cars used to transport flammable liquids to be retrofitted or 
phased out, and new cars to be built to more stringent standards . 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY52 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Positive train control (PTC) . The 2008 Rail Safety 
Improvement Act includes a provision requiring each 
Class I freight railroad and passenger railroad to develop 
and install a PTC system by December 31, 2015 . When fully developed, PTC will be a multifaceted computer-
based system designed to prevent train-to-train collisions, 
over-speed derailments, incursions into established work zone limits and train movements through switches left in 
incorrect positions . PTC must be installed on regularly 
used mainline commuter tracks and on mainline tracks over which certain hazardous materials are transported . In 
total, PTC will be installed on roughly 60,000 miles of the 
railroad industry’s tracks .
To ensure successful implementation, we are strategically 
hiring the right employees; developing critical software; evaluating PTC technology and partners; enhancing 
our GIS capabilities and systems integration; retrofitting 
locomotives; and improving signals, switches and other equipment .
It is important for CSX not only to meet these new 
regulations, but also to advance the safety of the network . 
Though the cost and difficulty of integrating PTC will 
be significant, we are working with innovative partners to develop and deploy this new technology as soon as 
possible . CSX has assembled a cross-functional team 
well-versed in technology, operations and maintenance to implement the PTC system . Through 2013, the company 
invested $875 million and has achieved significant 
advancements in our multiyear implementation of PTC across 3,600 locomotives, 10,300 wayside devices and 
14,900 track miles . MAINTAINING THE NETWORK  
As a business accountable to the communities we serve, 
it is essential that we maintain our railroad infrastructure 
to prevent any accidents or injuries . Approximately 
25 percent of CSX employees are dedicated solely to improving our 21,000 miles of track, signals and grade 
crossings . About 500 of those employees are dedicated 
to track inspection . We invest more than $1 .2 billion annually on improving and maintaining track, bridges, 
signal systems and other infrastructure . Annually, CSX 
installs more than 3 million crossties, lays more than 350 miles of new rail and refurbishes more than 130 bridges . 
We also work year-round to clear-cut trees and vegetation 
that would otherwise obstruct motorists’ views as they approach tracks and warning signs at grade crossings . 
Our employees take their roles as business and safety 
leaders seriously  . In July 2013, they undertook an annual 
eight-day CSX Maintenance Jamboree, designed to complete work that would normally take 18 weeks, drastically reducing potential traffic delays or other 
disruptions to the public . This accelerated timeline was 
accomplished by temporarily re-routing traffic on the CSX mainline in portions of three southeastern states, to 
allow uninterrupted time for upgrades and repairs . The 
Jamboree also encouraged teamwork, camaraderie and ownership of CSX’s commitment to our communities .
The Jamboree took place during the Fourth of July 
holiday week, to take advantage of a time when there 
are lighter rail volumes . In 2013, the work focused on 
key routes between Shelby, Ky  ., and Spartanburg, S .C ., 
and from Bostic to Monroe, N .C . Nearly two-thirds of 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 53
CSX’s network-wide system production teams – as well 
as division engineering teams, signal teams and bridge forces – participated in the Jamboree . Crews replaced 
or installed more than 64,000 crossties and 150,000 
linear feet of rail, while smoothing and shaping the track roadbed and ballast over 40 track miles . Road crossings 
were upgraded, and, where necessary, we coordinated 
temporary closings and the re-routing of motor vehicles .
The Jamboree is part of CSX’s efforts to help enhance 
the network to support increased demand for freight transportation services – estimated to more than double 
nationwide by 2040, according to the U .S . DOT  . The 
Maintenance Jamboree is an example of the investment 
and effort we dedicate to ensuring that the nation’s critical 
rail transportation network is ready to safely meet the 
country’s growing needs while providing benefits to our environment and our economy  . 
TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS  
SAFELY
As a common carrier, CSX is subject to significant 
federal safety regulations related to the transportation 
of hazardous materials . We take very seriously the 
responsibility that comes with transporting these materials and do everything we can to prevent harm to human 
health and the environment . 
We have a long history of safely transporting hazardous 
materials and we have established the CSX Hazardous 
Materials Team to respond immediately to emergencies throughout the CSX network . We work in conjunction 
with state and federal emergency response organizations 
in order to ensure prompt and effective response to any hazardous materials emergency, ranging from chemical 
releases, diesel fuel spills and other material releases . We 
ensure our safety standards comply with all regulations established by federal law, the U .S . DOT and the U .S . 
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) .
CSX partners with customers and local organizations to 
develop rigorous emergency response training materials . 
In 2013, we held 941 hours of training for 3,477 external participants and 1,305 CSX employees . Unique to this 
training program is the dedicated equipment used to 
prepare local response organizations . Safety Train, a partnership with The Firefighters Education and Training 
Foundation, provides realistic training scenarios for 
first responders . CSX provides 40-hour training events for emergency responders during which a derailment 
scenario is simulated . For organizations that cannot 
attend a face-to-face training session, CSX provides a variety of online training courses and printed materials to 
assist emergency responders . The preparation of these 
responders is essential to the safety and peace-of-mind of the communities along our tracks .CSX maintains a comprehensive prequalification process for hazardous materials response contractors . The process assesses potential contractors on financial, 
operational, safety and training performance . A third-party 
review is also completed for each potential contractor to ensure they meet the strict CSX criteria for responding 
to hazardous materials emergencies . Only when these 
contractors pass the third-party review are they approved to work with CSX on incident response . CSX reviews each 
contractor periodically to ensure continued compliance 
with our hazardous materials requirements . 
CSX POLICE DEPARTMENT
To further preserve the safety and efficiency of our railways, the CSX Police Department serves to protect 
CSX personnel, critical infrastructure, customer property 
and the public against criminal acts, including terrorism . Officers of the CSX Police Department are strategically 
deployed in 23 states across the network and frequently 
partner with municipal, county, state and federal law enforcement, and emergency response organizations . 
Relationships with these organizations enhance the 
company’s ability to promptly and safely respond to any security threats along the network . 
Threats to network security  . The CSX Police 
Department regularly partners with Federal Bureau of 
Investigation (FBI) Joint Terrorism Task Force operations 
across the network . CSX receives continual updates on terrorism intelligence and homeland security issues, 
helping us to ensure employees, communities and 
physical infrastructure assets are safe and secure . We collaborate with all of the Class I railroads on this initiative, 
allowing us to share and receive the most current data 
and information . As part of an ongoing agreement with other law enforcement agencies, the CSX Police 
Department conducts sophisticated training for other 
police departments using specialized railroad training cars . Recent training was provided for 55 members of the FBI 
SWAT team in Springfield, Mass . 
The Leadership, Education and Development (LEAD) 
Program . CSX partnered with The Johns Hopkins 
University in developing a custom program for CSX Police designed to build a department of highly skilled 
police professionals who are forward-thinking, strategic 
and aligned with our vision . The first LEAD program comprised 11 agents that graduated in August 2013 . 
During the course of the program, students were exposed 
to learning opportunities through real-life CSX scenarios, as well as interactions with CSX executives, leadership 
and esteemed guests . This program will serve CSX well 
with succession planning in light of the high number of anticipated retirements at the company  .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY54 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
The CSX Police Department also has highly specialized 
units that respond to specific threats to network security:
• The Specialized Crime Unit (SCU) focuses on prevention and investigation of crimes related to cargo 
theft and environmental issues .
• The Rapid Response Team is responsible for rail 
counterterrorism . They monitor and protect all rail 
infrastructure against terrorists . 
• The Trespass Abatement Program works to make 
the CSX network footprint safe and secure for all 
employees, customers and local communities . 
Operation Rail Safe . CSX Police participate in this pro-gram to ensure our nation’s passenger trains, stations and 
platforms are secure for citizens traveling by rail . In 2013, CSX Special Agents visited and spoke with employees and 
passengers at Amtrak stations throughout Florida . They 
also conducted security inspections and patrols . 
CSX Police response . In 2013, the CSX Police 
Department responded to a variety of incidents, including robbery, trespassing, vandalism, suspicious activity and 
many others . The Baltimore Division was recognized 
for their outstanding response in two major derailments involving hazardous materials and maintaining operations 
without interruption . In total, the CSX Police Department 
handled 1,113 arrests in 2013 . INFRASTRUCTURE PROTECTION
The CSX Infrastructure Protection (IP) team focuses on se-curity of the CSX network by complementing the resources 
of the CSX Police Department and the CSX Hazardous 
Materials Systems team . IP works closely with local, state and federal agencies on improving the safety and security 
of communities, our employees and customers . 
CSX believes that partnerships and close coordination 
to address security concerns are essential to enhancing 
public safety  . As part of this effort, the IP team has 
established public-private partnerships to provide federal 
and state homeland security officials valuable, current 
information they can use to protect the communities they serve . These formalized partnerships allow CSX, state 
officials and first responders to effectively and seamlessly 
share information and work side by side protecting our communities and employees . In 2013, the IP team was 
recertified to Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism 
(C-TPAT), a voluntary supply chain security program led by U .S . Customs and Border Protection (CBP), ensuring we 
conform with government guidelines .
CSX has developed and use a highly specialized Secure 
Network Operations Workstation (SecureNOW) system, 
which provides employees and trained state homeland security officials with a tool to promptly identify and 
track the location and status of CSX trains and railcars 
on the network . Access to SecureNOW also provides government officials with additional information about 
what we are transporting, allowing them to more efficiently 
allocate law enforcement resources, coordinate with CSX security officials and integrate rail security into ongoing 
law enforcement operations . CSX is the only Class I 
railroad that offers this solution to homeland security and emergency response centers . 
We currently partner with a total of 19 states and 
two federal entities – the Transportation Security 
Administration’s (TSA) Transportation Security Operation 
Center and the U .S . DOT’s Crisis Management Center  . 
CSX is in the process of expanding this program to 
achieve our ultimate goal of partnering with every state in 
our network . 
CSX provides annual training to federal and state 
officials on the SecureNOW systems . The IP team also works directly with the U .S . DHS (e .g ., TSA and U .S . 
Customs and Border Patrol), State Intelligence Fusion 
Centers and Transport Canada . The IP team regularly performs assessments on CSX infrastructure such as 
bridges, tunnels and major rail yards to determine the 
placement of both technology-based and physical security enhancements at certain critical assets . Site-specific 
security countermeasures are also determined .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 55
Employee Safety
At CSX, we strive to ensure our employees are safe in 
everything they do . Nothing is more important than every 
employee going home safely at the end of every day  . 
We believe that promoting our safety culture not only 
helps prevent and reduce accidents and injuries, but also 
enables our employees to perform their daily jobs in ways 
that foster public safety and the security of our network . 
Our approach to employee safety is based on preventing 
accidents and injuries through the application of hazard identification and risk mitigation . CSX has established 
programs and training to ensure that we operate safely at 
our workplace, on our network and in our communities .
SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Personal injury  . Tragically, in 2013, we lost four CSX 
employees in industrial accidents – the first fatalities 
in more than two years . A CSX track maintenance 
employee, while working to improve a public grade crossing, was murdered by a non-employee . A second 
CSX track maintenance worker died due to heat-related 
stress . Finally, two employees lost their lives in separate construction accidents . When accidents such as these, 
or any employee injury, occurs, we scour every detail 
to determine how we can avoid similar incidents from occurring in the future . There is nothing more important 
than the safety of our employees and our neighbors in the 
communities where we operate .
The company’s FRA personal injury rate, which measures 
the number of FRA-reportable injuries per 200,000 man-hours, was 0 .86 – up from 0 .70 in 2012 . As a result, we 
are refocusing our primary safety goal on the elimination of 
catastrophic employee incidents .
Train accidents . Our FRA train accident rate decreased 
12 percent from 2012 to 2013, reaching 1 .83 . CSX is proud to have been among the leaders in train accident 
prevention in 2013, but our responsibility in this area is 
ongoing . We continue to utilize technology that monitors the performance of our locomotive engineers and provides 
feedback for improvement .
Despite our commitment to safety, incidents on the railroad 
are sometimes unavoidable . We work to understanding the 
root causes of these events and implement both corrective and preventive measures . 
LIFE-CHANGING INDEX
While FRA rates are a good indicator of our total safety in-cidents, we sought a more comprehensive way to account 
for the potential severity of each incident . From minor scrapes and bumps that provide temporary discomfort, to 
accidents with life-changing consequences, we are deter -
mined to better understand the complexities of safety  . 
In 2012, CSX developed an internal measure known as the Life-Changing Index (LCI) . Each injury is measured 
on a scale from 0 to 2 that accounts for the potential risk 
exposure from specific railroad activities . This approach exposes behaviors that have the most impact on  
employee safety, allowing for more refined, predictive and 
precise preventive measures .
• Level 0: A non-reportable injury with no severity implications to the employee, such as an insect bite .
• Level 0 .5: An injury with minor severity implications to 
the employee, such as a strain or sprain that occurred 
while dismounting equipment .
• Level 1: An injury with moderate implications, such as 
an employee being struck by a sliver of metal .
• Level 1 .5: An injury with potentially severe injury 
implications, such as a fall from a stationary railcar  .
• Level 2: An injury with potentially catastrophic or fatal implications to the employee, such as a fall from a moving railcar or a head-on collision in a motor vehicle .0.00.20.40.60.81.0
2013 2012 2011
0.00.51.01.52.02.5
2013 2012 20110.86
0.700.93
1.832.082.42FRA Personal Injury Rate 
(number of FRA-reportable injuries per 200,000 man-hours)
FRA Train Accident Rate
(number of FRA-reportable train accidents per million train-miles)
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY56 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
The LCI provides managers with valuable information 
to identify root causes, further refine and tailor precise 
prevention actions that target behaviors, and allocate ap-
propriate resources to address the greatest potential risks to our employees and communities . 
SAFETY TRAINING
We place significant importance on education and training as part of our overall safety program . By 
encouraging our employees to be aware of their work 
environments, including potential hazards and ways to identify and minimize risk, we perpetuate a culture based 
on ownership – not only of their own safety, but also the 
safety of their co-workers and their communities .
New hire and employee training . The CSX Railroad 
Education & Development Institute (REDI) in Atlanta, Ga ., is dedicated to training new employees around 
our commitment to safety; as a result, we have noticed 
particularly strong safety performance among employees that have been with the company for fewer than five years . 
CSX maintains consistency throughout the organization, 
in part, by ensuring that all new hires receive a four-week comprehensive training at the REDI . Employees receive a 
combination of classroom instruction and on-site training 
at our Tilford Yard, which is located next door to the REDI . 
In 2013, 568 engineering hires, 1,656 transportation 
hires and 215 mechanical hires attended the training . CSX administers a competency test before and after the 
training . On average, attendees achieved a competency 
score of 65 percent on the pre-test and an average score of 88 percent on the post-test – a strong measure for the 
success of the program . 
Ongoing employee training . CSX fosters a culture of 
safety by equipping employees with the most up-to-date 
safety information . We check in with employees regularly, reminding them of the specific measures that can keep 
themselves, their coworkers and our communities safe . 
We have several processes and procedures in place to ensure employee adherence to safety standards, including 
safe job procedures such as pre-shift safety briefings, peer 
safety programs led by full-time volunteer craft workers and safety overlap processes that ensure employees at 
all levels of the organization have access to the same 
information .
Additionally, employees receive ongoing safety training 
that includes annual job-based training on safety and operating rules, monthly training sessions led by local 
supervisors and supported by video tutorials, and regularly 
scheduled train accident prevention and safety skills training and continuing education .
Union safety coordinators . To help implement safety 
initiatives throughout our operations, the CSX Safety team 
employs two full-time union safety coordinators for each 
of our 10 divisions . These coordinators liaise between union employees and our management team, observing 
daily actions and facilitating safety meetings and trainings . 
The union safety coordinators also provide the CSX Safety team with ideas for potential training sessions and other 
valuable feedback . The ongoing communication between 
the coordinators and the CSX Safety team ensures focus on important safety issues and workplace improvements 
throughout the network . 
Rail operation simulators . CSX Transportation has 
12 rail operation simulators to reinforce the training of 
employees engaged in remote control operations at key division locations . These portable units can be easily set 
up in an office or conference room to simulate a realistic 
railroad yard environment . They teach and evaluate employee skills through a portable transmitter that 
sends commands to a remotely controlled locomotive . 
This equipment subjectively grades the employee upon completion of one of 14 switching exercises, and 
provides a scorecard on his or her compliance with CSX 
Transportation rules specific to yard and remote control operation switching .
Train Accident Prevention (TAP) . In 2013, CSX’s TAP 
System team conducted training classes focused on train 
accident prevention and proper investigation procedures 
for a total of more than 980 participants . Classes were held at 12 different field locations across our system, 
reaching approximately 400 transportation, engineering 
and mechanical managers from our operations teams . The TAP process is instrumental in encouraging cooperation 
between these teams, not only to prevent accidents but 
also to properly identify the causes of train accidents when they occur  . In addition, the TAP System team trained 210 
field officers from the CSX police force, 240 new hires and 125 managers from our partner short-line railroads . 
REDI TRAINING SUMMARY
Group Employees Trained
Conductors 1,415
Locomotive Engineers 661
Car Department 202
Welding 166
Locomotive Department 472
Engineering–Track 507
Engineering–Bridge 87
Engineering–Signals 624
Engineering–Communications 117
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 57
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE
CSX utilizes an Industrial Hygiene team to focus on 
anticipating, recognizing, evaluating and controlling 
occupational health hazards for employees . The Industrial 
Hygiene team monitors air quality and noise across company operations to ensure that work environments 
are safe and employees are utilizing proper protective 
equipment . 
In 2013, we conducted 95 workplace exposure 
assessments that included the collection of 697 samples for 17 different occupational health hazards . The Industrial 
Hygiene team also responds to emergencies throughout 
the network . In the event of an incident, the team works with contractors to perform air monitoring after releases 
of hazardous materials . CSX ensures that community 
responders have the appropriate personal protective equipment and training necessary to safely and effectively 
respond to emergencies . 
The Industrial Hygiene team has continued to improve 
the knowledge, skills and abilities of CSX employees, 
customers and community responders through our Health, Safety and Environmental University, after introducing the 
program in 2010 . Our employees, as well as assorted 
subject matter experts, share our safety knowledge and expertise with University attendees through intensive 
courses designed to train safety managers that can 
successfully recognize workplace hazards and remove them before injuries occur  . 
WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION
Employee safety starts in our work environments . According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, assaults and 
violent acts are one of the leading causes of workplace fatalities . CSX company policies are designed to ensure 
that every employee, contractor, customer and visitor is safe while on company property  .
The goal is simple: we are dedicated to maintaining a workplace free from violence, threats of violence and other 
disruptive behavior  . CSX defines workplace violence as 
“any words or actions that create a perception of intent 
to harm persons or property at the workplace or that 
actually bring about such harm .” Every employee plays an 
important role in maintaining a safe work environment . 
In 2013, we promoted our “Recognize, Record, Report” 
approach to prevent workplace violence through training at CSX headquarters, as well as in field locations across 
the network . We were also the first freight rail company in 
the United States and Canada to formalize a workplace violence and protection program . In November, we 
sponsored and hosted the first workplace violence training 
event that included materials on both prevention and response, which was attended by all sectors of the rail 
industry  . 
Statistics show that women are at higher risk of experiencing violence at work than men . In fact, violence 
is the leading cause of death in the workplace for women, according to the latest data from the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics . In 2013, CSX partnered with the Hubbard 
House in Jacksonville, Fla ., a nationally recognized and certified domestic violence center for women and children, 
to increase awareness about how violence at home can 
extend to the workplace . Using this local partnership as a foundation, we plan to expand our workplace violence 
awareness program system-wide, to include partnership 
with a national domestic violence hotline and training videos that will be rolled out in 2014 .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYEnvironment
Successes
• CSX achieved record-setting fuel efficiency in 2013, 
allowing us to move a ton of freight 470 miles on a 
single gallon of fuel . 
• CSX reduced our GHG emissions intensity by 1 .5 
percent, making progress on our goal to reduce our 
GHG emissions intensity by 6 to 8 percent from 2011 
levels by 2020, and reduced fuel consumption across our fleet to 488 million gallons, down from 490 million 
gallons in 2012 .
• CSX continued to incorporate innovative design 
principles into our projects that comprehensively 
consider our environmental and community impacts . 
• CSX recycled more than 4 .2 million crossties in 2013 as 
a result of an extensive cleanup across our facilities .Challenges
• Working to return our unused or retired sites to beneficial use, through remediation, redevelopment and 
other methods .
• Encouraging employees to look beyond just compliance, 
to identify opportunities to drive further performance 
improvement and empower them with new technologies 
to do so . 
• Continuing to better understand the extent of our water 
footprint and identifying areas to reduce the company’s 
water consumption . 
• Advancing our strategic plans to improve our 
responsiveness to a changing climate and extreme 
weather conditions . 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 59
Management Approach and Plans Ahead
As responsible stewards of the environment, we consider our potential impacts at every 
stage of our operations . Our policies and procedures are focused on managing our 
footprint and minimizing our effects on air, land and water  . Every CSX employee, guided 
by our newly revised environmental policy and our environmental management system, 
takes our commitment to respectful and sustainable business practices seriously both today and tomorrow  . It is essential that we think about our network 
in a holistic way, considering how CSX 
operations affect the wider world. By building 
this mindset into our planning at all stages, 
we help our business, our customers, our 
communities and the environment, and enable 
sustainable success now and in the future.
Our Environmental Policy 
The CSX Environmental Policy provides a set of guiding principles for the company’s decisions and actions . In 
2013, we revised this policy to better reflect how we 
manage our environmental impacts today and how we want to manage them in the future . The policy focuses on 
the following:
• Developing a skilled workforce
• Improving fuel efficiency and supply chain management
• Managing and conserving water
• Recognizing and responding to potential impacts on the environment
• Exploring new ways to manage our environment
This policy is endorsed by all levels of the company and 
lays out our commitment to move beyond compliance with applicable regulations to focus on best management 
practices for tomorrow  . We encourage employees to embed sustainable behaviors 
into their everyday work performance and require them to 
identify, report and address environmental concerns . We 
include guiding principles from the CSX Environmental Policy into our Code of Ethics . We regularly review and 
update our Environmental Policy, which is readily available 
on our website .
Environmental Management System 
We back our environmental commitments with a variety of programs that promote, measure, track and improve 
sustainability across our operations .
Our Public Safety, Health & Environment (PSH&E) 
Management System incorporates major elements of 
ISO 14001 and is certified under the requirements of the American Chemistry Council (ACC) Responsible Care
® 
management system . It also voluntarily incorporates 
the U .S . Environmental Protection Agency (U .S . EPA) 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY60 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Progress Toward Goals
In 2013, CSX continued to work toward our long-term environmental goals to achieve by 2020 .
Waste DisposalGreenhouse Gas Emissions 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Water Stewar dship
Water Stewar dship
Energy E fﬁciency
Supply Chain Management 
Supply Chain Management EngagementReduce hazardous waste generator status by 25 percent.Reduce GHG emissions intensity by 6 to 8 percent.
Increase our energy blend to 10 percent renewable sources.
Reduce quantity of water consumed.
Improve the quality of efﬂuent water.
Continue to elevate sustainable standards 
of construction for new projects.
Continue to raise expectations of suppliers’ 
sustainability performance.
Increase eco-friendly procurement.
Encourage employees to take 
sustainable actions in their everyday jobs.Reduced hazardous waste
generator status by 17%Reduced GHG emissions
by 1.5 percent
 6 percent  renewable sources
in our energy blend
Continued to focus on our efforts to
reduce the quantity of water consumed
through better quantiﬁcation of use
Continued to focus
on efﬂuent quality
Opened new facilities with
sustainable design features
Participated in
CDP Supply Chain
Continued to add more evaluation tools
to current purchasing guidelines
Evaluated technology to help employees
track their sustainability actions
on a daily basis and set goalsWaste Disposal 
Decrease asphalt, concrete and 
brick to landﬁll to zero. Continued to ﬁnd opportunities
across the network to reduce
construction products to landﬁll
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 61
National Enforcement Investigations Center’s Compliance-Focused 
Environmental Management System and other industry-specific standards . The PSH&E Management System is tailored to our 
operations and provides the framework to assure regulatory 
compliance and minimize the impact of our operations on the environment, our people and the communities in which we live and 
work . It establishes a consistent set of programs, processes and 
procedures for use across CSX operations . 
Key components of the Management System include the 
identification of legal compliance requirements, risk assessment processes, the assignment of roles and responsibilities, and required 
and documented training . To facilitate consistent implementation 
across our network, the Management System contains approximately 300 instructional documents that provide clear guidance on 
environmental requirements and CSX best practices . 
We perform a detailed annual review of process consistency and 
documentation through a formal verification program . Additionally, we 
conduct independent compliance and management system reviews to ensure that our environmental performance remains on track . 
In 2013, we evaluated how to best improve our management 
systems and, in the fall, we went through a third-party review of our 
existing programs .
Spotlight: Partnering with GE on Innovative LNG Technology for Locomotives 
We are always focused on 
tomorrow, with a longstanding commitment to providing clean and efficient energy to increase the country’s security. With this in mind, CSX and GE Transportation, a division of GE, established a partnership in November 2013 to explore emissions-cutting and efficiency breakthroughs in liquefied natural gas (LNG) technology for locomotives. This partnership has helped us determine the right LNG solution 
for our locomotive fleet and better 
understand the safety, operational and economic feasibility of this potential fuel source.
A new era of energy sources . 
LNG is potentially one of the most significant developments in railroading since the transition from steam to diesel in the 1950s. Natural gas-fueled locomotives can travel longer distances without refueling and provide other environmental and economic benefits. The adoption of natural gas-fueled locomotives will make freight rail an even more attractive transportation solution and furthers the industry’s ability to absorb traffic from the nation’s highways in an environmentally efficient way.
GE has been testing low-pressure 
natural gas technology since spring of 2013, and is working 
closely with CSX and other Class I 
partners. Field tests are expected to begin in 2015. 
Balancing engine performance 
with efficiency and standards . GE’s NextFuel™ kits allow railroads to use natural gas as a fuel source, reducing emissions and potentially reducing fuel costs without compromising performance. An Evolution Series locomotive equipped with the NextFuel™ Natural Gas Retrofit Kit meets U.S. EPA Tier 3 emission standards.
CSX will be working over the 
coming years to develop a test plan and secure regulatory approvals concurrently. For CSX, GE Transportation will deploy its new NextFuel™ Natural Gas Retrofit Kits that enable existing Evolution Series locomotives to operate with dual fuel capabilities. 
CSX and GE will also collaborate 
on the continued development of LNG technology for other classes of locomotives to allow wider use across our fleet. We will work closely with key stakeholders and agencies across government to ensure the safety and environmental benefits of LNG deployment.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY62 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Unit 2011 2012 2013
Emissions
Total Scope 1 (a)metric tons CO2e 5,400,086 5,268,905 5,251,734
Total Scope 2 (b)metric tons CO2e 295,354 300,170 313,226
Total Scope 3 (c)metric tons CO2e 145,362 177,381 259,368
Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 metric tons CO2e 5,840,802 5,746,456 5,824,328
Emissions intensity, normalized  
Scope 1 & 2metric tons CO2e/million 
revenue ton-mile24 .94 24 .68 24 .55
NOX emissions (d)metric tons 97,316 81,039 80,693
SOX emissions (d)metric tons 1,398 946 953
Emissions by Kyoto Gas Type (e)
CO2metric tons 5,783,649 5,688,903 5,672,010
CH4metric tons 640 629 613
N2O metric tons 141 143 139
HFCs metric tons 0 .030 0 .067 0 .048
Consumption
Total direct consumption million BTU 72,890,709 71,074,180 70,863,517
 Diesel (f)million BTU 70,943,586 69,318,671 69,084,287
 Gasoline million BTU 1,141,326 1,130,979 1,126,930
 Natural Gas million BTU 480,951 303,272 355,929
 Propane million BTU 252,310 238,637 226,070
 Jet Fuel million BTU 38,842 36,002 34,310
 Used Oil million BTU 33,692 46,619 35,991
Total indirect consumption – electricity million BTU 1,839,899 1,838,100 1,925,369
Energy intensity million BTU/million 
revenue ton-mile327 323 321
Water consumed (g)thousand gallons 1,412,637 1,127,001 1,458,090
Locomotive Fuel Efficiency
Fuel Efficiency (revenue ton-mile per 
gallon diesel consumed)456 466 470
Waste 
Hazardous Waste from  
Ongoing Operations (h)short tons 49 .69 45 .82 62 .19
 Landfilled short tons - - 17.42
 Incinerated short tons - - 30.16
 Recycled short tons - - 14.61Environmental Performance Summary11
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY11 . G4-222013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 63
Unit 2011 2012 2013
Waste (continued)
Hazardous Waste from Remediation 
and Emergency Response Activities (h) short tons 1,661 .56 71 .12 452 .60
 Landfilled short tons - - 2.80
 Incinerated short tons - - 76.94
 Recycled short tons - - 372.86 
Non-Hazardous Waste from Ongoing 
Operations (i)short tons - 54,806 42,863
 Landfilled short tons - 52,088 40,639
 Incinerated short tons - 1,185 852
 Recycled short tons - 1,533 1,372
Non-Hazardous Waste from Remediation and Emergency  
Response Activities 
(i)short tons - 51,658 119,102
 Landfilled short tons - 46,360 109,618
 Incinerated short tons - 1,599 3,075
 Recycled short tons - 3,699 6,409
Recycling
Used Oil million gallons 2 .30 2 .25 2 .12
Batteries short tons 354 .7 337 .1 356 .8
Steel short tons 348,388 245,087 200,227
Crossties millions 2 .9 2 .4 4 .2
(a) In 2011, CSX expanded its operational boundary to reflect inclusion of all major CSX subsidiaries – this includes CSX 
Transportation, Inc ., CSX Intermodal Terminals, Inc ., Total Distribution Services, Inc ., CSX Technology, Inc ., Transflo 
Terminal Services, Inc ., and CSX Real Property, Inc . 
(b) In 2012, CSX completed the expansion of its operational boundary to reflect inclusion of Canadian operations . 
Emission factors for purchased electricity were obtained from the U .S . Environmental Protection Agency’s Emissions 
& Generation Resource Integrated Database (eGRID2012 Version 1 .0) and used in the recalculation of both 2011 and 2012 Scope 2 emissions .
(c) The 2011 value includes emissions from employee business travel in personal and rented vehicles, as well as air travel 
and employee commuting . The 2012 and 2013 values include all above-mentioned sources and contracted taxi 
service .
(d) Reported emissions of NO
X and SOX include direct (Scope 1) emissions .
(e) CSX does not generate PFC or SF6 emissions .
(f) Annual locomotive diesel fuel consumption is reported in the Annual Report to the Surface Transportation Board .
(g) Water consumed (in thousands of gallons) is estimated from total cost of water and from actual water usage data 
when available at certain facilities .
(h) CSX is displaying hazardous waste data from ongoing operations and remediation and emergency response as two 
separate values to better reflect the distinction between fixed facility generation and waste that is generated from one-
time cleanups .
(i) CSX continues to streamline and broaden its data-collection system for non-hazardous waste . Non-hazardous waste 
data is included starting in 2012 and is considered an estimated value .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY64 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Companies are beginning to look more carefully at the 
environmental impacts of their supply chains, particularly 
those related to product transport . As a railroad, we 
have a great opportunity to provide environmental benefit to our customers, as the typical CSX freight train is 
approximately four times more fuel-efficient than highway 
freight transportation and can carry the cargo load of up to 280 trucks . Through the switch from truck to rail, 
CSX enables customers to cut transport-related GHG 
emissions by approximately 60 to 80 percent, reducing their environmental footprints and costs .
The majority of our own GHG emissions – approximately 
86 percent in 2013 – are generated by our locomotive 
fleet . We are continually working to improve fleet fuel 
efficiency through locomotive upgrades, employee training and other technological advances . As a result, 
CSX has improved our efficiency by 100 percent since 
1980 . In 2012, we set a voluntary goal to reduce our GHG emissions intensity between 6 and 8 percent 
from 2011 levels by 2020 . In 2013, CSX achieved a 1 .5 
percent reduction from 2011 levels, demonstrating further advancement toward this goal . In 2013, we consumed 
approximately 488 million gallons of diesel fuel . This was a 
decrease from the 490 million gallons consumed in 2012 . 
Fuel efficiency  . We continually upgrade our fleet to 
increase fuel efficiency and, over the past decade, we 
have invested more than $1 .75 billion toward this goal . 
New locomotives such as the GE Evolution
® Series save 
approximately 12,600 gallons of diesel fuel each year compared to older switching locomotives . 
Due to these continued fleet enhancements and the 
technology advancements described below, our fuel 
efficiency improved by 1 percent from 2012 to 2013 . This means that a CSX train can move a ton of freight 
470 miles on a single gallon of fuel, up from 466 miles in 
2012 – a record-setting performance . Our locomotive fuel savings initiatives are overseen by a cross-functional team 
called the Fuel Strategy team . These voluntary initiatives 
reduce the fuel consumption of our locomotives and, therefore, effectively drive down intensity emissions . Over 
the next year, we will invest around $48 million in upgrades 
designed to improve emissions .
Employee training . We provide training, education and 
feedback to help our locomotive engineers operate safely and maximize fuel efficiency  . In addition, Event Recorder 
Automated Download (ERAD) technology monitors and records train operations data and provides feedback to engineers on a number of parameters, including fuel 
efficiency  . CSX engineers are also trained using locomotive 
simulators to develop best practices and increase their 
awareness of efficient train handling . Locomotive horsepower optimization and training . We also improve fuel efficiency by limiting unnecessary 
idling . We have invested in two separate pieces of 
idle-reducing technology, auxiliary power units (APUs) and automated engine start/stop (AESS) . As the name 
suggests, APUs provide auxiliary power to a locomotive, 
allowing the larger diesel engine to be shut down . AESS acts similarly by automatically shutting down the 
locomotive when not in use and automatically starting it 
when needed . In addition to these systems, CSX invests heavily in training our employees on proper locomotive 
shutdown rules to eliminate unnecessary idling .
We are also using trailing unit shutdown to optimize 
locomotive horsepower  . This technology depowers non-
lead locomotives when not in use, creating significant fuel 
savings without any effect on velocity or reliability  . The 
company saved 1 .8 million gallons of fuel implementing trailing unit shutdown in 2013 .
Other air emissions . CSX actively reduces air emissions throughout our operations . As we improve the fuel 
efficiency of our locomotives, we also reduce other air 
emissions, such as particulate matter (PM), nitrogen oxide (NO
X) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) . For example, low-emission 
locomotives reduce GHG emissions by nearly 25 percent 
and NOX and PM by more than 80 percent, benefiting both 
the climate and local air quality  . Other air emissions sources 
at our operational sites include locomotive repair and 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source*
Other Combustion: 2.0%Vehicles: 2.1%Scope 3: 4.5% Purchased Electricity: 5.4%Locomotive Fuel: 86.0%
*Includes scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions. 
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,000
2013 2012 20115,824 5,746 5,841
Total Scope 3
Total Scope 2
Total Scope 1GHG Emissions by Scope (thousand metric tons CO 2e)
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 65
paint shops, locomotive service centers and dry material 
handling facilities . These locations are regulated either by 
an air permit or by federal, state and local air requirements . 
CSX also has a purchasing agreement in place to purchase low-emission vehicles for the company fleet .
RESPONDING TO A CHANGING CLIMATE
By improving our energy efficiency, providing clean and affordable domestic energy resources, and practicing 
responsible environmental stewardship, we can spur 
economic growth, improve quality of life and help address the complex global challenge of climate change . 
CSX considers potential climate change impacts as part 
of our overall risk management process . We maintain 
strategic plans to maximize responsiveness to incidents 
resulting from extreme weather, changing weather patterns or shifting populations . The vast majority of our employees 
work outdoors and are susceptible to extreme weather 
conditions and changes; we prepare for such changes through business continuity plans that are adaptable 
across the 23-state network . CSX also maintains site-
specific operating plans and invests heavily in track infrastructure, helping to protect assets from the impacts 
of extreme weather  . For example, in 2013, we initiated a 
project to raise a portion of our track along the Gulf Coast 
in preparation for potential severe weather in the area .By far, railroads are the most environmentally friendly and 
energy-efficient way to move goods over land . By using 
rail, customers reduce GHG emissions by approximately 60 to 80 percent, which promotes cleaner air and helps 
the country reduce its dependence on foreign energy 
sources . We are taking significant voluntary actions – going beyond our legal requirements – to reduce locomotive 
emissions (including GHGs) and fuel use . 
For further details on our response to a changing climate, 
please see our latest CDP response . 
Operational Efficiency
One of the key ways we can reduce our impacts on 
the environment is through investment in highly efficient 
building technologies . CSX’s sustainable development 
efforts are focused on finding new ways to reduce the environmental footprint of the nearly 4,800 structures 
across our operations . When we upgrade the infrastructure 
and interiors of these buildings, we incorporate Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standards 
where feasible . As our network grows, particularly in the 
intermodal business, we are implementing a set of best practices for efficient, sustainable construction projects . 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYLEED Certified office building at the Central Florida Intermodal Logistics Center in Winter Haven, Florida66 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Innovation for intermodal . Developed in 2013 and 
opening in 2014, the company’s new Central Florida 
Integrated Logistics Center in Winter Haven, Fla ., is 
one of our most environmentally progressive projects yet, and sustainability was an important part of the 
site development . Four new buildings on this 318-acre 
former industrial property are certified to LEED Silver, and solar panels were installed to provide renewable 
energy  . Winter Haven also has the country’s largest 
high-mast installation of exterior LED lighting, which 
reduces energy consumption and light pollution . 
We designed the site around ongoing emissions 
reductions . We installed long lead tracks into the  
facility in both directions to allow the loading or 
unloading of complete trains, reducing switching operation air emissions . We use three sophisticated 
electric intermodal transfer cranes that recover 
energy on downward moves and reduce on-site air emissions . In addition, these cranes have underground 
supply lines to protect the native bird population . 
Energy recovery unit (ERU) . Our Value and Innovation 
Crew (described on page 49), explored ERU technology 
as a part of their efforts in 2013 . When implemented, ERU will help us reduce our environmental footprint 
by transforming the heat produced during locomotive 
load box testing into usable electricity  . We can use this 
energy to power local infrastructure and reduce our 
reliance on conventional grid-based power sources . Just 
one locomotive undergoing a four-hour maintenance test can produce enough kilowatt-hours to power 
1,400 homes . We are currently exploring how CSX can 
best implement this type of technology to realize its significant environmental benefits and cost savings .Collaborating on energy efficiency  . For the fourth 
consecutive year, CSX participated in the Environmental 
Defense Fund Climate Corps Fellowship, an innovative 
program that pairs MBA student fellows with leading companies to design and support programs that drive 
energy efficiency and cost reduction . Our 2013 fellow, 
Hanyan Wu from the Mason School of Business at the College of William & Mary, focused on solar energy 
opportunities and high-efficiency lighting projects across 
the network . Hanyan also helped spearhead a project to bring some of the first electric vehicle charging stations to 
the city of Jacksonville, Fla .
These proposed energy initiatives would result in 
approximate savings of $240,000, removing 300 
passenger vehicles from the roads and powering 200 homes for one year  .
Renewable energy and more . In addition to our efforts in Winter Haven, two new CSX buildings in Worcester, Mass ., 
utilize solar thermal energy to heat water and photovoltaic 
energy to power to parts of the building . These facilities also utilize hybrid electric cranes that run primarily on 
rechargeable batteries, saving energy, improving local air 
quality and reducing noise . At the Jacksonville Intermodal Terminal, we installed energy-efficient LED fixtures on high-
mast light poles, the administration building and the gate 
canopy, reducing energy consumption at the facility by nearly 25 percent . 
CSX also joined the InVest Smart Business Energy 
Updates program at JEA, a community-owned utility 
company in Jacksonville, Fla . The program is designed to 
help businesses make cost-efficient transitions to more environmentally friendly energy options . Spotlight: CSX Trip Optimizer 
CSX uses an innovative control system called Trip 
Optimizer to reduce fuel use by approximately 10 percent while enhancing safety, simplifying train handling and improving efficiency. 
This easy-to-use technology, developed in 
collaboration with GE, assists engineers in controlling the throttle. The system calculates maximum efficiency by considering factors such as train length, weight, grade, track conditions, weather and locomotive performance. Then, it assists the engineer via automatic adjustments that minimize end-of-train forces while cresting grades and controlling power output. Trip Optimizer not only reduces fuel use, 
but also reduces delays, coupler damage and train 
separation. CSX trains incorporating Trip Optimizer reduce fuel consumption by 32,000 gallons per locomotive every year. In 2013, this resulted in tens of millions of gallons saved. Trip Optimizer also reduces emissions of particulates and noxious gases, on average yielding a 174,000-ton reduction in GHGs annually. 
In 2013, we installed Trip Optimizer on 465 
locomotives, bringing our total equipped fleet to nearly 1,500 units. Additionally, we certified new territories for Trip Optimizer use. These additions, combined with improved utilization by train crews across our network, generated a year-over-year savings of 2.5 million gallons of fuel, worth more than $8 million. We are 
looking to increase our use of Trip Optimizer from 55 to 
70 percent over the next few years.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 67
Spotlight: LEED Certification for CSX Headquarters in Jacksonville
In 2013, CSX obtained LEED certification from the 
U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) for company headquarters in Jacksonville, Fla., as part of our ongoing commitment to sustainable operations. 
History of hard work . First constructed in 1959, 
the 485,000-square-foot building now features more than 760 offices, 65 conference rooms and a state-of-the-art health and wellness center. Since 2006, we have invested several hundred thousand dollars to upgrade the facility with energy-efficient technologies and environmentally friendly operating practices. 
Energy efficiency  . We have retrofitted our 
corporate headquarters with HVAC optimization, 
efficient lighting upgrades and a white roof that reflects sunlight, minimizing heat gain and reducing the energy needed to cool the building. The facility’s water use is 30 percent more efficient than the baseline expectation for similar buildings, an efficiency rating accomplished through water-conservation measures and high-efficiency plumbing fixtures such as touch-free, dual- or low-volume flush valves. Renewable energy credits (RECs) . We also recently purchased RECs, through Renewable Choice Energy, equivalent to 21 million pounds of CO
2. The RECs will offset emissions generated 
through electricity usage at our headquarters for two years. RECs are an industry standard that accounts for renewable energy products, where one REC is equivalent to 1,000 kilowatt-hours of clean energy. Our efforts to offset carbon emissions from our headquarters are equivalent to planting nearly 245,000 trees or removing more than 1,800 passenger cars from the road for one year.
Following the green footsteps . Our corporate 
headquarters was the first facility in the CSX network to gain certification under the USGBC’s 
rigorous “LEED for Existing Buildings Operations 
and Maintenance” rating system. Along with our other LEED-certified facilities – including terminals in North Baltimore, Ohio; Worcester, Mass.; and Florence, S.C. – these projects serve as catalysts for change in how we approach facility design in the future.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY68 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Land Management and Biodiversity
As part of our environmental management approach, 
we are always looking for ways to limit impacts on land, 
whether through construction, operations or remediation . 
We work with state and federal regulatory agencies to remediate sites . In some cases, we must acquire real 
estate to complete remediation and network expansion 
projects, and we work with property owners to ensure fair and respectful transactions . CSX uses an inclusive 
approach to remediation that considers engagement of 
community, municipal and regulatory stakeholders .
Biodiversity considerations at Winter Haven . As 
a part of our comprehensive sustainability-focused design for our Winter Haven, Fla . intermodal terminal, we 
identified six protected wildlife and three protected plant 
species on site . We voluntarily relocated gopher tortoises to a protected habitat . In partnership with the Historic 
Bok Tower Sanctuary, seed specimens of threatened 
and/or endangered plant species were relocated prior to construction . Our stormwater ponds were designed 
to include a vegetated littoral shelf that provides nutrient 
uptake prior to water discharge to the receiving body  . 
The site is also a fully remediated former brownfield site and four newly constructed buildings are Silver LEED-certified .
Planting trees across our network . In 2013, we 
surpassed our five-year Trees for Tracks goal of planting 21,000 trees . This year alone, we planted 5,344 trees 
that will improve air quality, reduce stormwater runoff and 
provide shade . Our work tangibly improved the quality of life, today and for years to come, for residents in the 51 
communities we reached through our Trees for Tracks 
program .
This year, our Trees for Tracks program expanded to 
include riparian tree plantings and tree giveaways . The riparian plantings will stabilize waterways and prevent 
flooding in community watersheds . The tree giveaways educated residents about tree benefits and care, and enabled them to start growing greener communities in 
their own backyards .
CSX completed an i-Tree analysis to better understand the 
impact of these actions . i-Tree is a state-of-the-art, peer-reviewed software suite from the USDA Forest Service that 
provides urban forestry analysis and benefits assessment 
tools . In 2013, the ability to predict future benefits of trees was added to the i-Tree software . The 2,629 riparian 
and Service Day trees we planted will provide more than 
$30,600 in benefits in 2013, including capturing nearly 120,000 gallons of stormwater, 28,000 pounds of CO
2 
and 132 pounds of air pollutants . These benefits only 
increase as the trees mature . In 50 years, these trees will 
provide more than $194,000 in annual benefits, capturing more than 15 .9 million gallons of stormwater and 420,000 
pounds of CO
2 . 
Recognition of brownfield redevelopment . CSX and 
its partners were awarded the annual Phoenix Award for sustainable brownfield redevelopment by the Phoenix 
Awards Institute in recognition of a successful two-year 
environmental remediation project that restored the ecosystem of a 24-acre former wood treatment site in 
Gautier, Miss . Located within a coastal community in the 
Pascagoula River Watershed, the Gautier site had been a brownfield for nearly two decades following the closure of 
a wood treatment facility that was operated for more than 
100 years . 
The Gautier project is a perfect example of our 
commitment to the environmental stewardship, wildlife management and economic development of our 
existing and inherited properties . An area that was once 
abandoned is now a vibrant ecosystem and community asset that will be enjoyed for years to come . 
Moving ahead in 2014, we are focused on applying 
what we have learned at Gautier to our remediation of 
the Nocatee Hull Creosote Site, a Superfund Equivalent 
Site managed by CSX and overseen by the U .S . EPA . Railroad ties at the site were treated with creosote from 
1912 through 1952 . As part of our remediation efforts, we 
regularly reach out to the community to inform and work collaboratively with those invested in our projects .
As a company that has been operating for more than 
185 years, our approach to business has evolved as 
our commitment to sustainability has grown . We are 
working diligently to address concerns resulting from previous operating practices and ensure that we operate 
responsibly now and going forward . To sustain success, 
we must think ahead of the curve and make it a priority to forecast trends and lead the industry with innovative 
thinking and technology  .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 69
Spotlight: Chesapeake Bay in Maryland and the Oyster Train 
Our operations cover large geographical areas that 
often serve as habitat for a variety of animal and plant life. We are dedicated to protecting the sensitive species that live near our tracks and facilities, and partner with organizations such as the Wildlife Habitat Council and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) to accomplish that goal. In 2013, CSX collaborated with the NFWF to improve water quality in the Chesapeake Bay watershed, supporting projects to restore fish and wildlife habitat, reduce water pollution and engage the public in environmental stewardship. In total, this partnership resulted in:
• 7.5 stream miles restored
• 310 acres of wetlands restored
• 64 acres of riparian buffers installed
• Two fish passage barriers removed
• 25,000 square feet of impervious surface removed
• 1,200 volunteers engaged
• 20,000 pounds of nitrogen, 1,400 pounds of phosphorous and 700,000 pounds of sediment prevented from entering the waterway annually
We also joined the NFWF and State of Maryland to implement the largest natural oyster reef restoration project ever undertaken in the Chesapeake Bay. CSX will donate $2.4 million in in-kind transport of approximately 50 unit trains, or 112,500 metric tons, of fossilized shell to Curtis Bay between December 2013 and September 2014. The shell will then be transported by barge to the Eastern Shore sanctuaries to complete planned reef restoration in Harris Creek and make major progress on similar efforts in the Little Choptank. These reefs will then be populated by juvenile oysters to establish flourishing populations.
We believe projects such as these can ultimately serve 
as a blueprint to expand large-scale oyster restoration efforts to other Bay tributaries.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY70 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Waste Management
Though we cannot fully prevent waste, our goal is to 
reduce it to the extent possible while maximizing recycling . 
CSX generates both hazardous and non-hazardous 
waste, and we focus first on avoiding waste generation wherever possible, then on safely disposing of or 
recycling waste we do generate from ongoing operations, 
remediation and emergency response activities . Our efforts in 2013 allowed us to divert from landfill 72 percent 
of hazardous waste and 91 percent of non-hazardous 
waste from ongoing operations .
In 2012, we set a goal to reduce the U .S . EPA-designated 
hazardous waste generator status of 25 percent of our facilities by 2020 . We are proud to report that we have 
already reduced the generator status of 17 percent of our 
facilities in just one year  . Our focus on meeting this goal 
has allowed us to exceed regulatory requirements, reduce 
risks and improve safety and health for employees at our 
facilities . Despite these accomplishments, we continue to look for opportunities to reduce the amount of hazardous 
materials at our facilities . We also provided training on best 
management practices to our employees and contractors that handle waste . 
In 2013, we undertook an extensive cleanup process 
across our network, recycling more than 4 .2 million legacy 
crossties – ties that had been removed in the past but 
were still staged on our property  . This includes the nearly 
3 million ties that we replace each year  . We will continue 
with our cleanup and recycling efforts throughout our network in the coming years .Hazardous Waste from Ongoing Operations* (tons)
010,00020,00030,00040,00050,000
2013 2012 201133,63141,419
*010203040506070
2013 2012 201162.19
45.8249.69
Non-Hazardous Waste from Ongoing Operations* (tons)
* Includes waste from ﬁxed-facility waste generation (see data table 
on pages 62-63). Collection of non-hazardous waste from ongoing 
operations data began in 2012. 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 71
Water Use
We understand that water is a valuable and limited natural 
resource, and we strive to reduce our water consumption 
and identify recycling and reuse options throughout the 
network . In 2013, CSX consumed approximately 1 .46 billion gallons of water, an increase from 2012 . Of that 
total, approximately 23 .7 million gallons were recycled, 
which includes collected rainwater  . 
To help our stakeholders better understand the company’s progress, we submitted our initial CDP water survey in 2013 . We chose 17 of our facilities to begin the process 
of water disclosure . These locations represent our largest 
water-consuming facilities, and the CDP survey is an important step toward full risk assessment and disclosure . 
Through this process, we identified four areas of the 
network with water vulnerability issues: Atlanta, Baltimore, Buffalo and Indianapolis . After identifying these higher-risk 
areas, the company will work on understanding water 
consumption patterns and identifying opportunities for improvements across our operations . 
For example, CSX uses 23 .7 million gallons of harvested 
rainwater per year in Baltimore, and is actively seeking 
ways to expand rainwater harvesting throughout the 
network . This process directly reduces the quantity of water purchased from municipalities . We continue 
to evaluate local conditions in Baltimore and identify 
additional mitigation opportunities beyond the rainwater harvesting we already conduct at this facility  . CSX is also 
focused on improving the quality of wastewater discharge through enhanced treatment and water quality measures . In 2013, we completed the design for upgraded water storage basins at the Curtis Bay pier facility in Baltimore . In an effort to make the facility completely self-contained, CSX is revamping the entire water collection system 
there to result in near-zero discharge . Over the next few 
years, we will install the first of two main storage basin chambers, helping to increase volume and capacity at 
the water treatment plant . Collected water will be used in 
place of public water sources where appropriate .
After completing 12 facilities in 2013, CSX now has a 
total of 25 sites connected to our centralized system that allows for remote monitoring and control of our 
wastewater treatment facilities . In coming years, we 
have a goal to reach a total of 45 key facilities with this technology  . This system automatically records data such 
as pH and flow rate and provides data trends . Through this system, we can accurately manage wastewater and ensure compliance with all appropriate regulations .03006009001,2001,500
2013 2012 20111,458
1,1271,413Water Consumed (million gallons)
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY72 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Excellence in Environmental Management: Matthew Adkins and Rick McNey
In 2013, the Association of American Railroads (AAR) recognized two CSX employees, Matthew Adkins and Rick 
McNey, for their dedication to environmental stewardship – a quality embodied by every CSX employee as part of their dedication to our communities. 
Matthew Adkins, CSX manager of environmental 
remediation, received the 2013 North American Environmental Employee Excellence Award, the AAR’s highest honor for environmental professionals. Adkins was one of seven industry professionals nominated for this annual award, and is the sixth CSX employee to win in the past 12 years.
Matt has successfully managed a number of complex 
remediation projects, demonstrating strong leadership, creativity and superior project management. He consistently collaborates with stakeholders, including local leaders and community organizations, to generate mutually beneficial results.
Matt is a longtime CSX employee who began his 
career as an environmental specialist in 1996. He recently led a team that successfully remediated the former Gautier Oil creosote treatment plant, which has been granted Wildlife at Work certification by the Wildlife Habitat Council. He spent nine years investigating, designing and executing a plan to restore and enhance the 24-acre coastal site, now part of a conservation easement. Matt is a strong proponent of 
continuing education opportunities and uses his time 
and talent to develop training courses and materials for CSX employees and other industry professionals. He was instrumental in the creation of the Direct to Locomotive Fuel Vendor Review protocol, which he continues to manage across our network. This successful program evaluates the work performance of our vendors and provides additional training and constructive feedback.Rick McNey, CSX manager of maintenance, received the 2013 John H. Chafee Environmental Excellence Award for outstanding environmental awareness and responsibility.
Rick is manager of maintenance at the 150-acre 
Curtis Bay Piers facility in Baltimore, Md. He oversees all mobile and stationary equipment at the facility, which operates 24 hours a day receiving, processing and loading a variety of bulk products. Under his leadership, we have reduced emissions and energy consumption at the pier and implemented strict environmental stewardship practices to further safeguard the sensitive watershed near the facility.
Rick and the local team of more than 100 people are 
also responsible for developing numerous mechanical enhancements that improved environmental efficiency at the facility. He has led a variety of successful projects, including the installation of a state-of-the-art geothermal cooling system that reduced energy use by 40 percent, the reduction of water consumption by 40 percent using harvesting rainwater and snow melt, the use of energy-efficient LED bulbs, improvement of the 
facility’s electrical network efficiency, and an upgrade 
of the pier’s dust mitigation system.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 73
Environmental Performance and 
Compliance
To ensure that our management systems are followed and 
our environmental goals are met, CSX has a dedicated 
team of environmental professionals who monitors 
environmental compliance activities and performs regulatory-required inspections of fueling systems, 
wastewater treatment facilities, hazardous waste storage 
areas, emergency generators and other facilities and equipment . 
In 2013, we enhanced our traditional compliance system 
into a more holistic PSH&E Enterprise Compliance Sys-
tem . Our renewed approach helps us look beyond main-
stream environmental compliance and focus on leading rather than lagging indicators . This upgraded technology 
also enhances our ability to maintain compliance . Using 
this new perspective, we are able to identify system gaps, as well as new measures to control them .
Compliance assurance reviews . CSX completes a 
series of assurance reviews to verify our compliance 
with environmental and hazardous materials regulations . 
These reviews include different tiers of evaluation, ranging from internal “peer” reviews to comprehensive 
external reviews performed by CSX employees alongside 
qualified environmental consultants . In 2013, we ramped up our compliance reviews at more than 200 sites using this tiered evaluation structure . Using electronic data management systems, we accurately capture 
results and implement timely corrective actions for any 
nonconformances identified . 
Each year, we conduct thousands of specific inspections 
to remain in compliance with all environmental regulations . When environmental incidents do occur, CSX personnel 
respond promptly to minimize impacts to the environment . 
In 2013, CSX received 11 notices of violation and paid $105,940 in fines . As a company we strive for zero notices 
of violation . When a notice of violation is received, we 
conduct a root cause analysis to understand the problem and identify a solution . Resolution actions are not only 
implemented at the notice of violation location but also 
at other locations across the system where applicable, in an effort to continually improve performance and reduce 
impacts on the environment .
Training . CSX offers a wide range of training to our 
employees that addresses every element of our environ-
mental management approach, from operational best practices to hazardous waste management and more . 
Annually, CSX provides both hazardous materials sentinel 
and environmental sentinel training programs at REDI in Atlanta, Ga . These state-of-the-art, in-depth trainings are 
intended to go beyond requirements and broaden the 
knowledge of operations personnel and equip them with the skills to serve as field-level experts or “sentinels .” 
2013 Environmental Performance Recognition 
• CSX was named to the North America Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for the third consecutive 
year, and was again the only U .S . railroad included 
in 2013 .
• CSX was recognized on the CDP S&P 500 Carbon 
Performance Leadership Index and was the only 
railroad recognized among the five industrial companies worldwide included in the CDP Global 
500 Climate Performance Leadership Index . 
• CSX achieved a position on the inaugural CDP Supplier Climate Performance Leadership Index for 
environmental stewardship . We were recognized for our efforts to help customers make informed 
transportation decisions that reduce carbon 
emissions and meet their sustainability goals .• CSX was included as a member in RobecoSAM’s Sustainability Yearbook 2014 for our 2013 
sustainability performance, and was the only U .S . 
railroad included . 
• CSX was one of just 34 companies from 10 
countries named to the Natural Capital Leaders 
Index by Trucost . The Index is a new methodology for identifying companies that are growing their 
revenue while reducing their environmental 
impacts . To meet Trucost’s criteria, companies must, among other things, increase revenue 
between 2008 and 2012, disclose GHG emissions 
and decrease their environmental impacts during the same period .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYWorkforce
Successes
• CSX advanced diversity within the company by 
successfully recruiting diverse employees, representing 
27 percent, and military veterans, representing 30 
percent of all new hires .
• CSX collaborated with union partners to reach new local 
agreements, including a landmark agreement with four 
unions at our locomotive shop in Huntington, W  .Va . 
• CSX ranked 19th in the International Data Group’s “100 
Best Places to Work in IT” via the Computerworld media 
group . Challenges
• Providing an improved work-life balance for our 
employees while simultaneously meeting the needs of 
our customers .
• Refining the company’s strategic workforce planning 
function to develop a pipeline of talent . 
• Continuing to increase the diversity of employees in the field, specifically women, who represent only 6 percent of our total workforce .2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 75
Employee Engagement 
CSX strives to be a place where people not only want 
to work, but are proud to work . We know that regular 
engagement and transparency with our employees 
is crucial to meeting this goal . We offer employees the opportunity to be part of a truly unique team that 
safeguards our operations and shares in the rewards they 
help sow  . Our people make it possible for CSX to be a 
leader in rail transportation and we make sure we share 
the rewards . 
Voice of the Employee . In 2011, CSX introduced the 
“Voice of the Employee” engagement survey, which was 
administered through a third-party vendor  . In 2013, we rolled out our online survey in April, collected data in June 
and began communicating results internally in July  . This 
expedited timeline allowed action teams to start making 
engagement progress based on more timely and relevant 
data . 
Roughly 17,000 individuals, representing every department 
and division across the company, responded to the 
survey – a 13 percent increase in participation since 2011 . The growing response was due in part to targeted 
communication to employees during annual rules training . 
CSX strives to achieve a company-wide “best employer” 
engagement score of 65 percent (as defined by the third-
party vendor), and has made steady progress toward Management Approach and Plans Ahead
We want to be a progressive workplace – a place that is safe, rewarding and exciting for our employees . The success of CSX depends upon our talented people, and we actively 
engage them to understand their needs and provide them with the tools and training 
necessary for their long-term success and happiness .
In order to grow and prepare for tomorrow, we must hire and develop new talent . We 
focus on initiatives that attract skilled candidates from diverse backgrounds to ensure a 
well-rounded and capable workforce to meet future challenges .
An important part of employee happiness is health . To encourage our people to be their 
best, we implement health and wellness programs that promote healthy choices and lifestyles .This is an exciting time in the industry. CSX 
is responding to change in the business by 
recruiting diverse, high-caliber talent that can 
help us innovate and lead rail into the future.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY76 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
this goal from 55 percent in 2011 to 58 percent in 2013 . 
Qualitatively, the survey showed that we excel in the 
following categories: 
• Organization reputation (employees are proud to  work at CSX)
• Work processes (employees enjoy their work)
• Safety (employees feel that their safety is important  to CSX)
• Career opportunities (employees see a long-term future 
with CSX)
Consistent with the 2011 engagement survey, our employees indicated that the following categories could 
use improvement: 
• Recognition
• Communication
• Aligning expectations
• Acknowledgment from senior leadership
We used these survey results to formulate responsive, 
actionable plans for improvement . For example, in 2013, 
engagement teams facilitated more than 50 focus group 
sessions with Operations employees across the network to determine how to increase engagement in local field 
offices . The focus on localized feedback allows us to build 
more meaningful actions for employees . 
Voice of the Employee in action . While some results 
of the “Voice of the Employee” point to broad topics, others help us identify more specific issues . Following the 
2011 survey, the CSX VOE team visited with employees 
across the company and gathered perspectives on the accomplishments and opportunities of our diverse field 
staff . During those visits, several women expressed 
the need for safety gear designed to fit females more comfortably  . 
In 2013, our Safety Department worked with our vendors to provide women in the field with better-fitted, and 
thus safer, personal protective equipment (PPE) such as 
jackets, vests, boots and gloves . 
Training and Development 
Investment in training and development is an essential component in building and retaining a talented workforce 
that will guarantee current and future success . We 
therefore put a great emphasis on professional and personal growth and offer a variety of different training and development programs .
Development planning . Whether newly hired, recently 
promoted, or experienced, we provide opportunities for employees to learn the skills they need to move their 
career forward . Because jobs at CSX vary so widely and 
each employee is unique, development planning starts out by identifying at least one key development area or goal 
specific to their needs for their career  . We encourage them 
to think about where they are now, where they want to go 
next and to identify the one skill or behavior they will need 
to get there . With this goal in mind, employees are asked 
to identify two possible development actions that support their key development goal . 
Training . Through a mix of on-the-job experiences, formal 
training and education, and relationships with others, 
employees have a variety of options to choose from to 
help them achieve their development goals . 
CSX offers a number of elective development opportunities 
that target each of our five leadership factors: Thought, People, Results, Self and Technical Leadership, which are 
delivered as both live and online programs via TrainingTrax, 
our platform that provides numerous programs and materials to help employees learn new skills .
Many new employees begin their careers at CSX with a 
full-time training program followed by a period of on-
the-job training, depending on the craft . At the Railroad 
Education & Development Institute (REDI), a state of the art facility located in Atlanta, new employees receive an 
overview orientation to CSX as well as comprehensive 
training in their craft . 
The table on the following page includes examples of 
CSX departments and jobs, all of which receive training 
at the REDI . Transportation Department 
employees are responsible for the safe and 
efficient operation of trains and the movement of customer freight from one destination to 
another  . Engineering employees provide 
quality maintenance to the track, train control 
(signals and communication) systems, 
bridges and buildings in a safe, cost-effective manner  . The 
Mechanical Department inspects, repairs and maintains freight cars and locomotives . 
Executive Development Program . In partnership 
with the Harvard Business School, we created a unique 
development experience to send 32 CSX leaders from 
departments across the company to Harvard for a full week of interaction with world-class experts on topics 
such as strategic thinking, innovation, leading change and 
customer focus . These employees were grouped into four For more about how we use Voice of the Employee,  
see the CSXConnect spotlight on page 83 . 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 77
teams to apply what they learned to strategic projects 
selected by our executive team, including the future of 
jointly owned companies, uses of natural gas, the needs 
of front-line supervisors and mobile device strategies . The objective of this program was to broaden perspectives 
about external forces affecting our company and enhance 
cross-functional collaboration across departments to address business issues . With the guidance from Harvard 
faculty, attendees continually refined their projects over a 
period of four months, culminating in a group discussion with the executive team about their proposed solutions . 
Performance management . In addition to support 
from our talent management team, we emphasize open 
and ongoing communication between management and 
their employees to check in on their performance . To that end, CSX has developed programs to help front-
line managers continuously improve their abilities to 
communicate job expectations, acknowledge good work and respond to employee feedback . Furthermore, all new 
hires receive face-to-face training on how to give positive 
recognition in the midst of day-to-day operations . This new program was the result of feedback from the “Voice 
of the Employee” survey  . We have also added a new 
people-management goal to the evaluation of employees 
in management positions to encourage engagement and 
increase interaction between supervisors and employees .Physical capabilities and physical abilities testing . 
At CSX, we believe that a healthy employee is a safer 
employee . We recognize that employees in the field 
may have physically demanding jobs, and we ensure they are prepared to do their jobs through programs like 
our physical capabilities testing . We use an objective 
test battery that measures an employee’s ability to perform aerobic and muscular work . Our Health and 
Wellness group has the tools to assess aerobic and 
measure muscular performance and help assign workers to the appropriate job tasks . We also use a physical 
abilities testing to evaluate a worker’s physical strength, 
endurance, power and coordination . With their long-term ability to perform their job, we provide expertise in 
assessing, measuring and educating employees on the 
impacts of physical fitness on job performance .
Workforce of Tomorrow
With 40 percent of CSX employees approaching a well-deserved retirement within the next five years, we are 
increasing focus on establishing the next generation of 
leaders within the company  . As our workforce changes, 
our talent strategy has evolved . We have developed a 
new vision for 2020 . As we move into the future, shifting 
demographics driven primarily by the impending retirement wave will call for innovative talent strategies and focused 
workforce planning . JOBS AT THE RAILROAD
The table below provides a few examples of jobs related to railroad operations at CSX . Employees occupying these roles, and 
many others, participate in specialized training programs at the REDI .
Department Job Title Description of Position
Transportation Freight Conductor Supervises train crews on a freight train and coordinates switch 
engine crews . Places cars to facilitate loading and unloading and the 
makeup and breakdown on trains in a rail yard, industrial plant or similar location .
Transportation Locomotive Engineer Operates a locomotive .
Transportation Train Dispatcher Directs and coordinates the safe movement of railroad traffic on a specified territory from a central and/or regional location .
Mechanical Carman Builds, inspects and repairs rail cars .
Engineering Signal Worker Assists in the installation, repair and maintenance of various railroad signals and grade crossing protection equipment .
Engineering Track Worker Works as a member of a crew to install new railroad track, maintain existing track and right-of-way  .
Transportation Yardmaster Controls trains and engines operating within a yard .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY78 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Case Study: Three Diverse Roads to CSX
Kennard Childs: Advancing 
Technology at CSX
Kennard Childs had an undergraduate 
education in computer engineering and a master’s degree in information technology (IT) – just the type of person we wanted to support our technology needs. He came to CSX from a typical IT world: sitting in a data center fielding IT needs. When he began the CSX Technology Management Training Program in July 2012, he quickly realized that CSX would provide him with an array of challenging and unique opportunities. 
Kennard’s rotation through the program 
allowed him to establish and grow 
relationships with people across the company, as well as our clients. During the first week of the training program, the CSX executive leadership team met the new recruits personally. Since then, Kennard has had several opportunities to sit down with members of the executive team, such as breakfast with Oscar Mu
-
noz, executive vice president and chief operating officer. As Kennard puts it, such direct contact at that high level can open doors and put CSX employees in a position to learn and be heard. 
Kennard now recruits new management 
trainees. He uses his personal experi
-
ences and perspective to reiterate why CSX is the highest-ranked transportation company at #19 on IDG’s Computer
-
world’s “100 Best Places to Work in IT.” He emphasizes the fun and supportive environment that presents engaging real-world projects and endless opportu
-
nities for networking and advancement.Kennard also serves as a leader for the CSX Professional Development Committee. He supports the African American Inclusion Group and works with Big Brothers Big Sisters to mentor students through United Way. He is also working to put together a professional development event with guest speaker Clarence Gooden, CSX executive vice president of sales and marketing and chief commercial officer. 
Jamie Watkins: Contributing to CSX 
and American Progress
Jamie Watkins is a former U.S. Olympic 
diver who competed around the world. After retiring, she applied her discipline and dedication as a professional athlete to the railroad industry.
She began her career at CSX in 2006 as 
a trucking service representative via a temp agency. After more than two years of growing her network in that position, she was hired directly by CSX Intermodal Truck Operations. After serving as an operations supervisor and operations manager, she now leads the process 
of opening new terminals for CSX 
Intermodal.
Jamie enjoys collaboration across 
CSX departments and the challenges involved in opening a terminal. A critical component of this process is training, and Jamie appreciates the opportunity to interact with diverse groups and instill her knowledge, as well as the company’s culture. She also enthusiastically engages our communities to share what we do and how we do it.Jamie is great example of female leadership in our operations, which is an exciting yet challenging domain. It requires innovative thinking, collaboration and teamwork to envision an end result and make it happen. It requires the ability to identify problems and then build processes and structure to resolve them. People such as Jamie are the foundation of our network. 
Raul Polance: From the Navy to the 
Railroad
Engineering was a natural career choice 
for Raul Polance, as his fascination with machinery began when he was a child. Raul studied industrial engineering in college and then joined the U.S. Navy, spending his military career in the Engineering Department. His skillset expanded as he served in a variety of positions, including gas turbine electrician, master training specialist, instrument calibration laboratory supervisor, readiness control officer and safety manager.
Raul transitioned into the railroad 
business, and specifically CSX, with the help of a good friend he served with in Hawaii, who is now a conductor. By applying the skills and qualifications he earned while serving, he is now a manager and custodian of multimillion-dollar assets. He supervises the maintenance and repair of railroad crossing gates, related electronics components and the main line of road signaling and control track circuit. He now leads the men and women who keep the public, customers, other employees and our trains safe.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 79
Multiple generations in the workforce at one time presents 
both challenges and opportunities for CSX . For example, Millennials are becoming a larger share of the company’s 
workforce and will influence the culture . By 2020, we 
expect that Millennials will make up 59 percent of the CSX workforce . Attracting Millennials means understanding 
what they are interested in, from the job they will do and 
the work-life balance they expect to our sustainability efforts and the culture of which they will be a member  .
Employee expectations are evolving . In today’s diverse professional landscape, collaboration is highly 
valued, lateral career moves are necessary and global 
assignments are expected . Between 2013 and 2020, we can expect to see similar patterns across both 
management and contract employees within the CSX 
workforce . Over time, the age profile has flattened, and we have seen more employees with diverse prior work 
experience . As a pattern, we are seeing greater diversity 
in crafts, which in turn helps the internal pipeline grow to a management level .
Workforce planning . In 2013, CSX enhanced its hiring 
approach by consolidating and streamlining the hiring 
team and improving communications . We introduced 
the “Inside Track” program to increase transparency and communications around our hiring process for internal 
candidates . More than 75 percent of management 
openings are filled internally, providing significant lateral and promotional career opportunities for employees . 
Furthermore, we have implemented a successful referral 
program; 32 percent of the company’s new hires were recommended by employees .
In 2013, we formalized our internship program, which has 
been a key success for strategic workforce planning . As a 
result of the program, CSX hired 80 people, or 20 percent 
of our interns, during the pilot year  . Not only does the program reduce recruitment costs, but it helps potential employees understand what it is like to work at CSX . 
Partnerships with organizations like Future Farmers of 
America (FFA) and City Year have been instrumental in the company’s ability to attract young talent . Through 
these types of organizations, we have a chance to interact 
with Millennials and provide opportunities that interest them to learn more about CSX and consider us as a 
potential employer  . For example, CSX has a longstanding 
relationship with FFA and participates in FFA career fairs 
at the local and national levels to engage students in rural 
areas within the CSX network . CSX’s partnership with 
FFA includes a platinum level sponsorship of $1 .2 million to support the development of future leaders across the 
organization’s chapters in the United States . CSX is also 
the largest team site sponsor of City Year Care Force members in 13 cities across the eastern United States . 
We participate in community activities such as mural 
painting, playground refurbishment, school renovations and tree plantings . 
In addition to reaching out to students through these key 
organizations, college recruiting is an important aspect 
of developing and maintaining an evolving workforce . 
In 2013, CSX visited more than 30 college campuses, directing our recruiting efforts toward students majoring in 
science, technology, engineering and math .
Diversity and inclusion . Success – for CSX, our 
customers and the communities we serve each day – 
requires constant innovation and a deep understanding of changing customer needs . Every CSX employee serves an 
integral role in that effort, which is why we are committed 
to hiring the best and brightest employees from an array of backgrounds . We strive to attract and retain the most 
talented employees across the demographic spectrum, 
regardless of age, gender, race, tenure, physical challenges, sexual orientation, geographic location, 
education level, income or life experiences . 
Our CSX Executive Inclusion Council is an advisory 
committee that helps ensure alignment between the 
organizational strategy and the diversity, inclusion and engagement strategy  . A member of the senior 
management team serves as the Council’s advisor  . 
Additionally, the Global Inclusion Council, comprised of inclusion council chairs at various levels of the 
organization, meets monthly to chart and discuss various 
initiatives and manage progress . 
Inclusion Groups and Councils offer CSX employees 
opportunities to connect and build a sense of community through common demographics such as race, ethnicity 
or gender, or through geographic location . The primary 
purpose of these groups is to support the company’s diversity, inclusion and engagement strategy and business 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY80 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
objectives . Every inclusion organization must be open to 
all CSX employees .
In 2013, groups like the African-American Inclusion Group, 
Women’s Network, Hispanic Inclusion Group, ABLE 
Inclusion Group and Military Affinity Group drove diversity 
across the company through volunteer work, fundraising, educational opportunities such as lunch and learns, 
presentations and other community initiatives aimed at 
learning about and celebrating their shared heritages . These groups also provide avenues for employees to 
enhance their skills and leadership to further their careers 
at CSX .
Military inclusion . We make concerted efforts to employ 
skilled veterans and current enlistees in armed services, and we have been widely recognized as a top employer 
for service men and women .
In alignment with our continuous support of military 
veterans, 30 percent of the company’s new hires in 2013 
were military veterans, up 6 percent from 2012 . About 7,200 of our 31,000 employees have military experience – 
about one in every five employees . Also, approximately 
700 current employees are active National Guard or Military Reserve members . 
CSX continued our internship program with the Wounded 
Warrior Project, where we train wounded vets to 
contribute in a number of different roles at the company  . 
Thus far, we have helped train 12 Wounded Warriors and 
have several working in our Public Safety Coordination 
Center  . Recognition
CSX ranked 19th in the International Data Group’s “100 
Best Places to Work in IT” via the Computerworld media 
group . We were highly ranked for our dedication to 
creating a challenging and supportive work environment for IT employees, and highlighted the “Thanks!” program, 
which provides a channel for recognizing employee 
excellence . The top 100 list is compiled based on a comprehensive questionnaire highlighting company 
performance in categories such as benefits, diversity, 
career development training and retention .
In 2013, we were named to DiversityInc’s 25 Noteworthy 
Companies list, and ranked number one on the list of Top 10 Companies for Veterans . DiversityInc recognizes 
companies with demonstrated commitments to diverse 
hiring and business practices . The publication has recognized CSX several times in the past . 
We have been honored as a GI JOBS Magazine Top 
10 Military Friendly Employer for six consecutive years; 
CSX is ranked fourth for 2014, out of more than 5,000 
companies who applied nationally  . CSX partners with 
national programs like First Lady Michelle Obama’s 
“Joining Forces” initiative and the JP Morgan Chase 
“100,000 military hires” initiative . We were named to Civilianjobs .com’s Most Valuable Military Employer List  
for the sixth straight year  . 
In recent years, CSX has also received other honors from Diversity MBA Magazine, Black MBA Magazine, 
the Association of Diversity Councils, CollegeGrad .com, Hispanic Business and Disability Matters . Additionally, CSX 
is a charter member of GettingHired .com, an organization 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 81
WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS
2011 2012 2013
Overall Statistics
Total Workforce 31,838 30,399 31,015
Contract/Temporary Employees 3,707 4,060 5,258
Union Statistics
Union Employees – Total 27,242 25,657 26,236
Union Employees – Percent 86% 84% 85%
Union Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements 100% 100% 100%
Employee Turnover Rate – Union 11% 9% 10%
Management Statistics
Management Employees – Total 4,596 4,742 4,779
Management Employees – Percent 14% 16% 15%
Minority Managers – Total 811 882 936
Minority Managers – Percent 18% 19% 20%
Female Managers – Total 1,031 1,087 1,092
Female Managers – Percent 22% 23% 23%
Employee Turnover Rate – Management 6% 6% 7%
Managers Receiving Annual Performance Reviews 100% 100% 100%
Diversity Statistics
Female Employees – Total 2,035 2,061 2,015
Female Employees – Percent 6% 7% 6%
Minority Employees – Total 4,701 4,607 4,759
Minority Employees – Percent 15% 15% 15%for employers and job applicants designed to help 
the millions of Americans living with disabilities secure 
sustainable employment and flourish in their careers .
Workforce Composition 
We employ more than 30,000 people in a variety of 
management and non-management, office and field, union 
and non-union roles . We are committed to fairness and 
equal opportunity and adhere to all labor and employment laws wherever we operate . 
CSX keeps a thorough record of our employee base, 
including composition and annual turnover statistics . 
Historically, the rail industry, especially field positions, has 
For more detailed workforce information, see page 106 .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY82 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
been dominated by Caucasian males . Through increased communication with the public via advertising, community 
outreach and recruiting, we are working to attract greater diversity to sustain our workforce in the long term . Of 2,338 
new hires in 2013, 118 were women and 560 were minorities . 
Employee Compensation and Benefits 
CSX always uses fair market analysis to determine equitable and competitive compensation for our employees . 
We conduct in-depth compensation assessments through which we benchmark against external sources . The 
assessments include pay equity between men and women to ensure that we are in line with industry standards and fairly 
compensating employees regardless of gender  .
FULL-TIME / PART-TIME BENEFIT ELIGIBILITY COMPARISON
Full-Time Employees (40 hours per week) Part-Time Employees* (20–39 hours per week)
All Medical and Dental Plans CDHP (no HSA) / No Dental
Basic Life Insurance (2x salary) $10,000 .00
Basic AD&D (2x salary) Not Eligible
Bereavement Leave Bereavement Leave
COBRA COBRA
CSXtra (401(k)) CSXtra (401(k)) 
Flexible Spending Account Flexible Spending Account 
Holidays Holidays 
Medical LOA, STD, LTD Not Eligible
Military Leave Military Leave 
Optional AD&D Optional AD&D
Optional Life Insurance Not Eligible 
Pension Pension
Prepaid Legal Plan Prepaid Legal Plan
Service Award Program Service Award Program
Severance Pay Plan Not Eligible
Thanks! Employee Recognition Thanks! Employee Recognition
Travel Accident Insurance Not Eligible
Tuition Reimbursement Not Eligible
Vacation Vacation
Vision Plan Vision Plan 
* Part-time employees that work less than 20 hours per week are not eligible for the benefits listed in this table .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 83
CSX has been a leader in providing benefits to domestic 
partners of the same sex . In light of recent changes to 
the Defense of Marriage Act, we now extend benefits to married same-sex employees on the same pre-tax basis 
as we do for our married opposite-sex employees . 
Employee Policies 
CSX does not tolerate discrimination or retaliation . We 
widely distribute and reinforce our policies through 
continuing and comprehensive training programs, 
mailings to each employee’s home, postings throughout workplaces, postings on the CSX employee intranet 
and periodic company-wide emails . Discrimination of 
any type is prohibited and violates company policy  . We 
strictly prohibit retaliation against an individual who brings 
a complaint of harassment or discrimination, or against an individual who participates in the investigation of a complaint of harassment or discrimination .
We maintain and promote a 24-hour confidential hotline 
and website where employees can anonymously submit 
complaints or concerns about the company or fellow employees . The CSX Code of Ethics also includes specific 
whistle-blowing provisions . All complaints and reports 
remain confidential and are thoroughly investigated .
Labor Relations
Over 80 percent of our employees are union members . The CSX Labor Relations team maintains fair and 
equitable treatment of our union employees through the 
negotiation, implementation and interpretation of labor agreements .Spotlight: CSXConnect 
Based on feedback from the 2011 
Voice of the Employee (VOE) Survey, we instituted CSXConnect, an employee service center that provides a call-in resource for employees with benefits-related and other types of questions. Employees indicated that they wanted better communication surrounding company information and more timely answers to their questions about the resources, programs and benefits available to them. 
CSXConnect was launched 
in September 2012 and fully implemented in March 2013. Employees can contact the service center via phone, email, fax or through the CSXConnect website. From March through December 2013, CSXConnect was contacted 17,000 times. Approximately half of these calls came from employees who work in the field across our network. Many of these questions related to our policies, such as tuition reimbursement, or came from new hires about benefits. CSXConnect is staffed with CSX employees who know how to find 
the right answers to employee 
questions related to a wide variety of topics such as employee policies, career opportunities, training classes, benefits, compensation, leaves of absence and more. If an employee’s issue is more complex or personal, the CSXConnect team will connect them with the appropriate resource. 
One of the ways we gauge our 
effectiveness in addressing employee questions is by offering a survey to those who have contacted the center. Survey results showed a satisfaction rating of 4.35 on a 5-point scale as of year-
end 2013. We use the feedback 
from these surveys to continually improve CSXConnect and make it more useful for our employees.
Spotlight: CSX and Unions Reach Landmark Agreement at Huntington Shop
On October 23, 2013, we signed an innovative agreement with four labor unions that covers a variety of work, including locomotive rebuilds, at our locomotive shop in Huntington, W.Va.
The agreement between CSX and its union-
represented employees at the Huntington facility provides the right incentives for increased worker flexibility and will drive significant improvements in quality, production and efficiency. These new standards will demonstrate that railroad unions, even at higher rates of pay with superior benefits, can compete with outside contractors. 
Under the agreement, members of all four unions may 
perform all assigned work without regard to craft or union affiliation. Covered employees will receive a $500 signing bonus, a $1 hourly efficiency differential and guaranteed employment for the duration of the four-year agreement. In addition, the agreement preserves the current ratio of members of each union currently working at the Huntington Locomotive Shop.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY84 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
We negotiate and administer our collective bargaining 
agreements together with the country’s other Class I 
railroads . In addition, we have 13 labor organizations 
within CSX that work collaboratively to set policy through organization-specific collective bargaining agreements . 
These agreements are enforceable by law and establish 
individual as well as collective rights . The agreements cover virtually all aspects of the employment relationship, 
except where terms and conditions are covered by 
federal law  . This includes wages, hours and all terms 
and conditions of employment; pension, disability and 
unemployment are covered by the Railroad Retirement 
Board . 
In response to the Voice of the Employee survey, we 
established an interactive way for union and management employees to submit questions directly to our Labor 
Relations team regarding agreements, negotiations, 
performance-based incentives and more called ASK LR . Questions are routed to a Labor Relations manager or 
other departments, as appropriate . ASK LR is another tool 
to help us transparently engage our employees around important topics .
Health and Wellness
We believe that the physical and mental health of our employees is essential to their ability to perform their 
jobs safely and effectively  . To achieve this, our senior 
management and a staff of dedicated health and wellness 
professionals are committed to providing employees the 
appropriate tools and facilities to support healthy lifestyles . 
We established the CSX Health & Wellness Program with a mission to promote health and improve quality 
of life through the development and implementation of 
scientifically based disease prevention and behavioral modification programs . We monitor utilization rates, 
biometric data and satisfaction surveys to ensure the 
Health & Wellness Program is being used and meets the needs of our employees . 
Programs . We have more than 25 voluntary health and 
wellness programs that range from biometric screening 
to one-on-one health coaching . These programs provide 
a varied approach to maintaining physical and mental health . Popular behavior-based programs like the “Drop 
and Give Them 10” campaign, a national fundraiser 
for Wounded Warrior Project
®, provide a supportive, 
collaborative environment for healthier lifestyles, while 
awareness programs like the Heart Health Screening 
and Health Risk Appraisal give employees access to specialized information important for preventive health care . Of the employees who completed health screenings, 17 percent improved their health risk status in 2013 .
The Healthy Living Challenge and the Small Steps 
Program were two of our other popular wellness programs 
in 2013 . The Healthy Living Challenge was designed to help employees incorporate nutrition and physical activity into their daily 
routines . Employees could team up with 
co-workers or compete as individuals to accumulate points for participating in healthy 
behaviors . Each participant chose a health 
goal to focus on each month and earned points for 
meeting these goals . More than 730 employees competed 
in the Healthy Living Challenge in 2013 and more than 
half completed the program . The Small Steps Program focused on the physical activity component of healthy 
living . This program encouraged employees to improve 
their cardiovascular health by increasing the amount of steps they take on a daily basis . Participants wore 
pedometers and tracked their daily steps, with a goal of 
reaching 10,000 steps per day  .More than 700 employees competed in the Healthy  
Living Challenge in 2013, incorporating nutrition and  
physical activities into their daily lives.Spotlight: Bruce Stevens
On a plane one day in 2008, Bart Edgar, a 
CSX Wellness Center coordinator, struck up a conversation with Bruce Stevens, a CSX e-business coordinator with Type 2 diabetes, and invited him to visit the CSX Wellness Center. Nearly six months later, Bart gave a presentation to Bruce’s group about health and wellness, and Bruce finally decided to make a change. 
His energy levels were low, he was overweight 
and had stopped exercising years ago. When he first stepped onto the treadmill, he was unable to run for five minutes without getting winded. Bart and Bruce worked together to set small, 
attainable goals. Over the course of three years, 
Bruce has completely transformed his body and his life. 
Since Bruce joined the Wellness Center in August 
2008, he has lost 22 pounds, decreased his body fat by 11 percent and lowered his blood sugar levels (hemoglobin A1c) by 1.8. Bruce’s doctors were able to take him off several prescription medications. In addition, his cholesterol numbers are now under control. He is healthier than he has been in 15 years. Using the education and tools provided by the Wellness Center, Bruce achieved a healthy lifestyle after years of steady dedication. 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 85
Results . CSX partnered with Pfizer, a pharmaceutical 
company, to analyze data collected from employee engagement and wellness program results for the past 
seven years . Through this partnership, we were able to 
observe year-to-year trends, obtain an overview of our health and wellness profile and identify gaps in the data 
collection and feedback process . Furthermore, the data 
contain more granular information at the site level, which we hope to use to provide targeted resources to individual 
facilities . 
Wellness Centers . In 2013, CSX celebrated the opening 
of our 40th on-site wellness center at the Newport News 
Car Shop site in Virginia . We plan to open four more in the upcoming year  . As CSX continues to provide the 
space and equipment for active lifestyles, employees are responding in encouraging numbers . In 2013, there were about 10,000 fitness center members across the 
company – approximately a third of our workforce . Going 
forward, we have started considering the footprint of our wellness centers during the planning phases of projects . 
Incentives . In 2013, the health and wellness team 
partnered with the human resources department to create 
financial incentives via employee health insurance . For 
example, non-smokers are financially rewarded through reduced health care costs . Employee Assistance Program
CSX’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) staff supports our employees and their family members beyond 
basic health and wellness . Our counselors are trained 
professionals who provide assessment, counseling, guidance, information and referral services to assist with 
personal issues such as relationship problems, alcohol or 
drug abuse, depression or anxiety, the management of work-life balance or any other emotional challenges . As 
of 2013, our EAP is administered completely in house . 
Managing this program internally allows us to more effectively address the needs of our unique workforce 
and tailor programs to best benefit our employees . For 
example, counselors are trained to support employees experiencing distress from derailments or crossing-related 
incidents . Our EAP is supported by a staff of 26, including 
two physicians, seven EAP personnel, medical assistance personnel and medical health professionals .
Mental health . The EAP goes above and beyond 
regulatory requirements to help employees identify and 
address mental illness . For example, because military 
veterans comprise a significant portion of our workforce, the EAP focuses attention on specific mental illnesses 
like post-traumatic stress disorder  . Through this program, 
CSX supports nearly 7 percent of the workforce in some 
way . Across the nation, the average EAP supports just 3 
to 4 percent of a company’s workforce, indicating that the company is a leader in providing comprehensive wellness support to employees . 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITYCommunity
Successes
• CSX increased its financial support to charitable 
organizations to more than $16 million, and built a new 
national partnership with Action For Healthy Kids .
• CSX fulfilled our Trees for Tracks program pledge to 
plant 21,000 trees, by planting 5,344 trees in 2013 for a 
total of 22,553 in the past five years .
• CSX volunteers logged more than 25,000 hours of 
community service, leading to a 48 percent increase in 
CSX Foundation contributions through our Dollars for 
Doers program .Challenges
• Working with the many communities across our 21,000-mile network to better understand and effectively 
address their needs despite limited resources – 
especially when incidents occur  .
• Managing community concerns regarding local impacts 
and potential disruption associated with construction 
needed to serve growing markets . 
• Engaging geographically-disbursed employees who 
have limited access to electronic communication in our 
community programs .
• Reaching a corporate giving level equal to 1 percent of 
pre-tax net earnings .
2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 87
Beyond Our Rails
As part of CSX’s core values and business strategy, 
and in accord with our Standard of Care, we invest in 
the betterment of employees and communities through 
the Beyond Our Rails program (beyondourrails .org) . The program provides an avenue for the company and 
our people to help on both the local and national levels 
through volunteer service, wellness education programs, financial contributions, and in-kind donations both of 
free rail transportation to nonprofits and materials . The 
Beyond Our Rails website describes our efforts outside of the office or yard toward our charitable goals . 
Approach to Charitable Giving
CSX is committed to providing support across the network to achieve our community goals, and contributes 
financially through both national partnerships and regional 
grants . We partner with several national organizations that distribute funds to programs in communities throughout the eastern United States . However, local support of smaller organizations is vital to encouraging 
community leadership, building and maintaining 
relationships, and engaging employees spread across many terminals and yards . 
To support at the local level, the Beyond Our Rails 
program provides a platform for nonprofits to review 
the guidelines for our giving program and request 
financial assistance from CSX through grants and sponsorship, employee volunteers, and in-kind donations 
of transportation or materials . In addition, employees 
of nonprofit organizations can use the website to learn about our focus areas and see our current charitable 
initiatives . The online form allows CSX to qualify 
organizations through an automated vetting process and collect needed information to review and process the 
requests . The online application is then routed, based 
on the region the nonprofit serves, to a regional council Management Approach and Plans Ahead
Our responsibility to the communities we serve is much greater than simply connecting people, products and places . CSX is committed to contributing to the social, economic 
and institutional development of our communities . Establishing and maintaining our 
license to operate throughout our service area begins with successful community engagement and collaboration . Our “Beyond Our Rails” program continues to be a crucial platform in this regard .
Our national and local partnerships continue to provide opportunities to remain active and 
give back to communities in far more locations than we would otherwise reach on our 
own . Our volunteering opportunities and unique community engagement events are how 
we personally connect with these communities . Now, more than ever, it is absolutely essential for 
industry to work with communities towards common 
goals. Sustainable economic development is only 
possible through cooperation with all stakeholders, 
including the public. Together we can address the 
challenges of the modern world.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY88 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
led by the Vice President of State Government and 
Community Affairs in each region . The regional councils, 
made up of local employees, meet regularly to review and 
evaluate requests . We then send notifications of approval or decline to the nonprofit organization . Approved 
nonprofits are asked to complete a follow-up impact 
report, using an online form, within one year of the grant . 
In 2013, we set and exceeded a goal to invest $15 million 
in our communities, donating more than $16 million in cash and in-kind support to nonprofit organizations 
throughout the year  . The company’s overall aim is to 
strengthen and serve our communities by providing 
resources in our four community focus areas (Safety, 
Environment, Community and Wellness) . 
Community Engagement Focus Areas
CSX’s community engagement programs are focused 
on developing strong, healthy employees who will 
be company and civic leaders in the future; fostering 
communities that are safe places for employees to live and work; and stewarding sustainable resources and 
the environment for global benefit . We have aligned 
the company’s community investments to support the following four focus areas .
Safety
Safety is more than just one of our core values – it is a way of life . We are committed to ensuring the safety 
of employees, customers and communities through 
education, training, advocacy and strategic community investments aimed at:
• Providing railroad transportation safety education to all citizens
• Providing safety, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and disaster-response training
• Keeping communities safe and providing safe havens 
for children and young adults to avoid dangers and 
abuse
• Donating equipment and other resources to first 
responders
NATIONAL SAFETY PROGRAMS
Operation Lifesaver Inc . (OLI) . OLI is an organization 
dedicated to providing education and support to decrease 
the number of fatalities and accidents at rail crossings 
and railroad tracks throughout the United States . This mission is also at the heart of our safety efforts . We have 
many employees that serve on local boards, such as 
Terry Ludban, Director of Community Affairs and Safety, who serves on OLI’s national board of directors . CSX 
provides more than $500,000 in direct grants annually to 
the organization and also assists with many educational programs to promote safety around rails to more than 1 .2 
million people .
National Safe Place . National Safe 
Place is a youth outreach program that 
educates hundreds of young people each year about the dangers of running away 
and teaches conflict resolution through 
a network of youth-friendly businesses, schools, fire stations 
and libraries, as well as other 
appropriate public buildings that display the yellow-and-black “Safe 
Place” signage . As a sponsor and 
safety advocate of National Safe Place, we provide volunteers, 
funding and leadership support . 
Last year, with CSX’s help, more than 5,300 children and young 
adults were admitted to a Safe 
Place site . In addition, educational programs in schools reached more than 729,000 
indviduals to provide information on where to find a Safe 
Place if they are in danger  .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 89
The American Red Cross . The 
American Red Cross is a global leader in emergency response, disaster 
preparation, disease prevention and 
humanitarianism . After more than 25 years of partnership, CSX increased 
company support of the American Red Cross to more 
than $500,000 in 2013 . We support the Red Cross’ annual disaster giving program by “pre-investing” in 
disaster readiness and response . Our early support 
allows the Red Cross to provide immediate support and humanitarian relief across the United States . This 
investment is in addition to in-kind and CSX employee-
driven donations provided throughout the year  . Each year, 
more than 9 million people receive emergency training 
through Red Cross programs, including CPR and AED 
training . We are proud to support these initiatives .
In addition, CSX continues to offer dollar-for-dollar 
matching programs to the Red Cross to encourage employee giving in the aftermath of natural disasters and 
crises . This past year, we matched more than $38,000 
in response to Typhoon Haiyan and tornadoes in the Midwest .
LOCAL SAFETY INITIATIVES
Our commitment to safety is also reflected in our support of regional grants that serve our local communities . In 
2013, CSX provided a grant to the University of South 
Florida, located in Tampa, to provide AED units for police cars . These life-saving devices would now be available 
to first responders, who often arrive in advance of fire or 
rescue crews during emergencies at or near the University  . 
In Cayuga, Ind ., CSX provided a grant to the Cayuga 
Volunteer Fire Department to help fund a new hazmat 
truck and hazardous materials training . In Jacksonville, Fla ., we were the title sponsor for the first-annual 
Emergency Preparedness Conference for Persons with 
Disabilities, hosted by the Independent Living Resource Center (ILRC) . Dr  . Craig Heligman, CSX’s Associate Chief 
Medical Officer, attended the event and reflected, “The 
ILRC supports the ability of the disabled population to 
continue living independently, and safety at home for this population is not something I think other groups address 
in such a public forum as this . It was very well-attended 
and provided good information and education to the target population .”
Environment
We recognize our responsibility to protect and restore the environment in our areas of operation . We use a holistic 
approach to environmental stewardship, providing support 
in the following areas: 
• Teaching environmental stewardship
• Planting trees and improving local habitats
• Promoting energy-efficiency and carbon reduction
• Recycling and minimizing waste
• Leading and supporting environmental cleanups
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMS
The Nature Conservancy  . In October 
2013, CSX partnered with the Nature 
Conservancy to bring the Nature Works 
Everywhere program to Curtis Bay, giving kids from urban schools a hands-on 
chance to learn about the environment by 
building and working in a local garden . 
With CSX support, the Nature Conservancy brought 
together children throughout the school year to build 12 gardens in the Baltimore area . Not only does 
this educational workday immerse urban children in 
nature and provide them with valuable experiences, it encourages neighbors to come together to benefit the 
community  . Learn more about the garden program at 
natureworkseverywhere .org .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY90 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Alliance for Community Trees .  
In November 2013, CSX and our 
employees, together with ACTrees and 
other community organizations, fulfilled the company’s Trees for Tracks pledge of planting 21,000 
trees, one for each mile of track along the 23-state 
network . Over 5,000 trees were planted in 2013, benefiting more than 50 communities . These environ-
mental investments will capture nearly 120,000 gallons 
of stormwater, 28,000 pounds of carbon dioxide and 132 pounds of air pollutants in the first year alone . CSX 
support also made it possible for Boys and Girls Clubs of 
America to organize educational events for youth focused on tree-related stewardship, leadership and advocacy  .
LOCAL ENVIRONMENT INITIATIVES
Using both national partners and local grants, CSX reached thousands of K-12 students in 2013 through 
environmental stewardship education across the network . 
These programs encourage children and young adults to learn about their environment and take care of natural 
resources . By promoting sustainable, green projects, we 
can provide our future leaders with a base understanding of the important balance between our natural environment, 
our own health and our economic sustainability  . A few of 
these education programs include:
ACTrees & Boys and Girls Clubs Keystone Program, 
providing information on urban forests and advocacy around environmental issues to youth in 10 cities .FFA Environmental Grants, encouraging 2,700 FFA members in 72 chapters to lead new environmental 
sustainable projects in their schools and communities .
The Nature Conservancy, engaging 32 schools in three 
cities to build and care for pollinator gardens, alongside an 
environmental sustainability curriculum . 
Anacostia Watershed Society, Inc ., helping 750 
students engaged in the Rice Rangers Program to learn about the importance of regional wetlands . 
St . Johns Riverkeeper, providing supplies and 
curriculum to schools across Northeast Florida for 
environmental stewardship education reaching 2,500 
students . 
Community 
Our community engagement approach is collaborative and respectful . We determine the particular concerns of 
each community and provide support where it is needed 
most, including:
• Spearheading youth leadership education
• Helping to reduce school dropout rates
• Promoting community service
• Supporting programs identified by community leaders as vital for the community’s success
• Recognizing civic and charitable employee service
• Celebrating and rewarding leadership and service
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 91
NATIONAL COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
City Year  . City Year is an education-focused nonprofit 
organization that places young people from all 
backgrounds in full-time service for a year, to keep 
students in school and on track to graduate . This organization aligns with our community goals three-fold, 
promoting community service through the support of 
recruiting efforts for Corps members, supporting and celebrating youth leadership in education by placing these 
Corps members in leadership and mentor roles in schools 
throughout the country, and by reducing the school drop-out rate . Last year, through CSX’s support, applications 
from young college graduates increased 5 percent .
City Year also has programs to support company-led 
service events called Care Force . Through this partnership, 
more than 2,000 CSX employees have volunteered with City Year, painting murals, refurbishing playgrounds, 
renovating schools and planting trees across 22 states 
and the District of Columbia .
Future Farmers of America (FFA) Foundation . The 
National FFA is the largest youth service organization in the country, serving more than 570,000 members and 
providing leadership and community service through 
agricultural education . 
We sponsor FFA Chapter Leadership programs in 23 
states, help develop curriculum and offer leadership scholarships in each of its 10 divisions . CSX employees invest hundreds of hours in community service and 
leadership and career training, as well as job interview 
preparation, to FFA and its members . 
In 2013, we sponsored the National FFA’s national 
convention in Louisville, Ky  ., and the FFA’s Leadership 
Conference in Washington, D .C . The Leadership 
Conference was attended by 1,794 students .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY92 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
LOCAL COMMUNITY INITIATIVES
Each of the communities throughout the cities and towns 
along our tracks has specific needs . Our regional grants 
support a variety of causes, from literacy in a rural area to 
beautification projects in an urban area, or celebrations of significant historical events . A few examples of our 
community project support in 2013 include:
• Providing funds for the Wellington Community Auditorium in Elyria, Ohio, to help build a place where 
people can come together for many events throughout the year 
• Providing support for local Boys & Girls Clubs; the northeast Florida chapter was able to report that 94 percent of the children actively involved in their program 
remained in school and were promoted to the next 
grade, reducing the risk of dropouts
• Sponsoring the Comite des Fetes du 150e anniversaire 
de Beauharnois in recognition of the 150th anniversary 
of the Beauharnois community in Quebec, Canada
Wellness
The health of our workforce is crucial to continued business success, but CSX’s commitment to wellness 
extends beyond our employees and into our communities . 
CSX works to improve the health and well-being of communities by: 
• Driving wellness and preventive health education
• Supporting physical activity programs for children to 
decrease childhood obesity
• Encouraging healthy lifestyles
• Promoting disease prevention
NATIONAL WELLNESS PROGRAMS
Action for Healthy Kids (AFHK) . Since it was created 
in 2002 in response to the U .S . Surgeon General’s call to 
action against the national epidemic of childhood obesity, 
AFHK has become a leader in this movement, working at the federal and state levels and in school districts nationwide . This four-star national charity is headquartered in Chicago and has state chapters throughout the country  . 
It has several programs based on the ages and needs of the schools: Fuel UP to Play 60, of which the NFL is a major sponsor; Game On; and Students Taking Charge . 
In 2013, CSX built a national partnership with the 
organization through a financial commitment of $750,000 
to provide a mini-grant program to 200 K-12 schools 
across our network, with the goal of increasing the physical activity of 75,000 students . AFHK’s How 
Tomorrow Moves campaign will teach about the 
importance of physical activity and increase the number of children physically active at school . In the first six months 
of the partnership, more than 110,000 students have 
participated in the program, and 70 percent of the schools have already increased physical activity for students during 
school hours .
One mini-grant, which has helped institute physical 
“brain breaks,” received very positive feedback from both 
students and teachers . “The brain breaks have helped my children be more attentive during whole group instruction,” 
Spotlight: CSX Employees Join Together to Bike for Multiple Sclerosis
A team of 77 CSX employees, led by Team Captain 
Rob Burkett, participated in the Bike MS: Bike-to-the-Bay 2013 event in Toledo, Ohio, on June 29 and 30, 2013. Cyclists had the option of participating in a one- or two-day ride. The one-day route was 35 miles, while the two-day route allowed riders to choose distances of 50, 75 or 100 miles each day. Ours was the largest team participating and the second-largest fundraising team, with more than $35,000 raised to date.
Bike MS is a series of 100 cycling events that take 
place across the county. The first Bike MS event was held in 1980 in Minnesota. Five years later, the 
National Multiple Sclerosis Society adopted the ride 
as an “official” event to be held in every chapter. Today, there is at least one ride offered in every state. The funds raised go toward multiple sclerosis research and other services supported by the National MS Society. 
The Toledo ride is one of two well-established MS 
bike events supported by CSX employees and the CSX Health & Wellness team. The northeast Florida “Bike to the Shore” event attracted over 130 CSX riders to the two-day event.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 93
said kindergarten teacher Carla Jones . “Now, their minds 
are clear, wiggles are out, and they are ready to learn .”
As many schools and districts continue to cut physical 
education and recess programs, it is essential that we and 
other companies provide the necessary funding to expand these programs and encourage wellness and health at a 
young age .
Dignity U Wear  . This organization is dedicated to 
providing clean, new clothing to children, veterans, women 
and girls out of crisis situations . The clothing helps provide encouragement and self-confidence for those pursuing 
new job opportunities or attending school, and is given out 
to needy communities in response to crises . CSX has a unique capability to serve this organization by transporting 
new clothing, donated by companies across the country, 
to those in need . In 2013, we helped Dignity U Wear distribute brand new clothing to 130 Crisis Centers from 
Miami, Fla ., to Anchorage, Alaska, through a joint-service 
project with National Safe Place, FFA and City Year  .
LOCAL WELLNESS INITIATIVES
We provide regional grants to achieve our wellness goals, such as a grant to St . Vincent’s Healthcare Foundation, 
supporting the Healthy Teacher program . This program 
provided access to a new wellness curriculum for K-12 teachers throughout northeast Florida and reached more 
than 200,000 students in 2013, helping educate them on 
healthy lifestyle choices . The Healthy Teacher program has had a direct impact, with 89 percent of teachers reporting that their students’ health behaviors have improved as a result . 
CSX also supported the Girls in the Game program in 
Chicago, Ill . Our 2013 grant to this program provided the 
opportunity for 3,500 girls to participate in new sports and 
encouraged active, healthy lifestyles . 
In addition to grants, CSX provides sponsorships for many 
walks and runs and encourages employee participation to bring attention and awareness to different healthy causes .
Employee Volunteerism
“People Make the Difference .” This is one of our core values, a value every employee takes to heart and 
demonstrates through their generous donations of time 
and skill as part of our Dollars for Doers program . In 2013, CSX volunteers logged more than 25,000 hours 
of community service . For every hour that an employee 
volunteers at an eligible nonprofit of the employee’s choice, we donate $10 (up to $400 per year) to that 
organization .
In 2013, 1,511 employees participated in the Dollars for 
Doers program, which was an increase from 1,179 in 
2012 . More than 200 organizations benefited from this program, with more than $116,000 allocated . As the 
program grows each year, more employees are realizing 
the benefits of participation .
To date, more than 3,500 volunteers participated in 
service events, helping to deliver on our promise to 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY94 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
provide a greater number of employees the opportunity to 
participate in our National Partner Service Days and other 
CSX-coordinated volunteer service projects .
NATIONAL INITIATIVES
Meeting basic needs . In 2013, we united with food 
banks across the country to provide resources year-
round . But assistance is often needed most during the 
holidays . We collaborated with the Maryland Food Bank to distribute holiday meals to 1,000 individuals in need . We 
also sent holiday cards to 85 major food banks near our 
terminals, donating $5,000 to each of those organizations . 
When our local team learned in December that food 
supplies were running low in Albany, N .Y  ., employees 
of CSX Railroad in Selkirk delivered 2,700 pounds of 
food, as well as a $20,000 dollar donation . Our Albany 
Division manager challenged his team to fill an empty CSX intermodal container with food . The team positioned 
clean containers throughout the Selkirk Terminal and 
spread word to their local suppliers . Several contributed box-loads of food, while others donated cash toward food 
purchases . Food bank staff came to the yard regularly to 
weigh, wrap and then deliver the food to the area pantries . 
LOCAL PARTNERSHIPS
In addition to our work with national organizations, we also partner at the local level to enable employees to build 
relationships within their local communities . One of the more creative opportunities in which CSX 
was involved was the 50th anniversary celebration of the Civil Rights Movement . We joined the community 
of Birmingham, Ala ., to create a mosaic mural standing 
22 feet tall and 36 feet wide . The mural was unveiled in November 2013 during a commemorative celebration in 
the city’s well-known Railroad Park . CSX partnered with 
Birmingham on the 50 Years Forward observance, both as a show of support for commemorating this local piece of 
history and to help provide an outlet through which diverse 
members of the community could join in saluting progress and promoting the right results, the right way  .
In December 2013, we donated thousands of coats, jeans, socks and other clothing items to elementary, 
middle school and high school students in the Sto-Rox 
School District in Pittsburgh, Pa . We took an intermodal trailer filled with winter clothing to each of the three 
schools, and every student took home new garments . 
CSX employees volunteered their time to help load and unload the trailers . 
We rolled out a similar initiative in Baltimore, Md ., donating 
38 boxes of new winter clothes and accessories . More 
than 2,800 pieces of clothing were delivered to local 
families through the Preston Mitchum Jr  . Foundation’s 
13th Annual Holiday Drive . Spotlight: Volunteerism in Action
Working beyond our rails is a key part of our culture, and 
employee Arthur Adams is a great example of that, having one of the highest numbers of volunteer hours in 2013. 
Arthur began volunteering through CSX five years ago and 
has since worked with organizations such as United Way and Family Foundations, where he serves as Board Chairman and leads projects helping people throughout Jacksonville. During Family Foundations’ Wi$e Money Week, Arthur coordinates and advocates for participation in the annual event, which educates consumers about ways they can improve their financial stability. 
Arthur believes CSX fosters in our employees a responsibility 
to be community ambassadors and better leaders. His 
volunteerism helps him stay in tune with the community so, as 
a leader, he can anticipate and understand their challenges and make a positive impact.
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 95
National Partner Service Days
CSX’s overarching community mission provides opportunities for employees to collaborate with our partnering 
organizations around the country and engage the communities where we live and work . Each service day is planned in 
an area where CSX has significant train operations and community impact .
Our 2013 schedule took us to 12 states across the network: 
Locations Event TypeNumber of 
EventsNumber of 
VolunteersKey Accomplishments
Atlanta, Ga .;  
Huntington, W  .Va .Safe Play 2 242Restored baseball fields, refreshed the playground and 
added safe wood chips .
Waycross, Ga .;  
Willard, Ohio .;  
Albany, N .Y  .;  
Pittsburgh, Pa .;  
Nashville, Tenn .;  
Baltimore, Md .Trees For Tracks 6 306 Planted more than 5,000 trees .
Hamlet, N .C .;  
Newark, N .J .;  Jacksonville, Fla .;  
Dulles, D .C .;  
Fort Meade, Fla .;  Louisville, Ky  .;  
Baltimore, Md .Service Day 10 2,723Beautified a city park, repaired and repainted local community features, refreshed community 
centers and buildings, completed 
murals, built garden beds, sorted and packed clothes, built and 
sponsored a computer room .
Bladensburg, Md .;  
Norfolk, Va .Clean Up 2 236Cleaned up a local watershed and shoreline .
Total Number of Volunteers3,507
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY96 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Spotlight: The Power of Partnerships
In 2013, we leveraged a number of partnerships to 
strengthen our community projects. We worked with various groups – including nonprofits, other railroads and business contractors – in service collaboration towards the betterment of our communities and our employees.
National Days of ServiceBringing together four of our national partners, 
CSX and FFA volunteers took part in their National Days of Service event to help provide new clothing to thousands of young people in the United States seeking shelter from off the streets. Dignity U Wear 
provided nearly 80,000 items of new clothing and 
shoes, which CSX delivered to Louisville, Ky., the site of FFA’s 2013 national convention. City Year’s Care Force helped organize and coordinate the two-day service event, during which more than 300 volunteers, mostly FFA students, sorted and packed the clothing based on a list provided by National Safe Place. The clothes were individually packed and delivered to 130 Safe Place shelters and centers from Miami to Anchorage. CSX Intermodal services provided in-kind transportation assistance to the delivery effort. One of the recipient organizations, the Tumbleweed Center for Youth Development, said of the donation, “The kids were so excited when they saw the boxes of clothes. Many of them were in need and were particularly happy the clothes were new and items they would have picked out for themselves.”
Rail ServiceWorking with City Year and our fellow rail company, 
Conrail, CSX initiated a community service day during which 80 volunteers from the two companies came together to refurbish the Ironbound Recreational Center in Newark, N.J. The Center reaches 3,500 members of the community each month through its 
programs that include exercise classes, recreational 
sports, family movies and a computer lab. The service day included wall and mural painting, and construction of picnic tables, benches and garden boxes, as well as an outdoor classroom. Deputy Mayor Margarita Muniz commented that volunteers “… are part of our efforts to expand recreation in the City so our children can grow healthy minds and bodies. We extend our thanks to CSX, City Year and Conrail for their time and hard work to better our community.”Contractor Service
Over 160 volunteers joined together in Atlanta, Ga., 
at the Gus Barksdale Boys and Girls Club to renovate and landscape their facility. The renovations included painting the basketball court and adding murals, benches, planters, shelving and picnic tables. More than half of the volunteers were CSX contractors who work alongside CSX employees and were in the city as part of a three-day Public Safety and Environment Conference. These employees and contractors come together each year for training to support best safety practices, ethical conduct and teamwork. “This is truly a blessing with perfect timing,” said Terrence Artis, 
the Club’s Executive Director. “They accomplished 
in six hours what it would take us a year or more to complete,” added Carol Wyre, the Club’s Program Director. “They definitely made a difference.”
Leadership ServiceIn the summer of 2013, close to 2,000 student leaders 
visited Washington, D.C., over a six-week period for the FFA’s Washington Leadership Conference. The purpose of the annual conference is to help these outstanding students develop leadership and advocacy skills and demonstrate their motto of “Living to Serve.” The conference is made possible as a part of CSX’s platinum-level sponsorship through the FFA Foundation, and we took an active role in the conference’s community service events. Each week, CSX and City Year’s Care Force joined the conference to work with FFA volunteers to create back-to-school packages for underserved public schools in the D.C. area. The packages included posters, cards and student cinch sacks with school supplies and tips on nutrition. They also included trunks that were assembled to provide teachers with the materials and supplies that they may not be able to secure through the school. To promote physical education, the FFA 
volunteers also created and assembled games and 
activities that the students could participate in during recess. Over the span of the six weeks, these service events generated 4,400 student cinch sacks and 180 teacher trunks for schools in the area.
As the 2013-2014 school year began in the District of 
Columbia, CSX sponsored City Year corps members to help unload and distribute the school packages that were assembled by the FFA students. These deliveries were conducted at 12 schools across the District. 
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 97
Community Engagement 
Ensuring the continuity of our operations and meeting 
the needs of growing markets throughout our service 
area depends upon successful community engagement 
throughout the entire life cycle of our sites – from the earliest development stages, throughout operations and 
after the useful life of a site has passed . 
Project development . Expanding our rail network to 
serve growing markets and increased demand sometimes 
requires investing in new or improved infrastructure . These infrastructure projects can have major impacts, both 
positive and negative, on local communities . We work 
proactively with community leaders and local government officials to understand and alleviate local concerns . These 
engagement efforts are integral to reaching common 
understanding and setting and achieving shared goals . 
By communicating early in the development process, 
and communicating often, we can remove obstacles towards responsible, sustainable growth that will benefit 
all stakeholders . Addressing local concerns is important, 
but the processes to do so can sometimes delay service improvements our customers need and even jeopardize 
our ability to make important investments . Even successful 
projects sometimes face these kinds of delays . 
Community engagement was central to the development 
of our state-of-the-art intermodal terminal in Winter Haven, Fla . Beginning in 2008, we worked to relocate 
and replace our Orlando Terminal to make way for the 
SunRail commuter rail system being built by the State of Florida on 61 miles of track formerly owned by CSX . 
Although the project would provide needed employment in 
the area, local residents were understandably concerned about the noise, light and 
other potential disruptions associated with 
development . 
We used local consultants for environmental 
studies and throughout the permitting process, leveraging their considerable expertise 
when determining risks and mitigations 
related to sensitive species, wetlands and other environmental resources . In addition, 
we engaged with local schools through 
community events and held an outreach fair, attended by more than 700 people, to discuss 
the project with affected communities . 
We officially broke ground in November 
2012 and completed the project throughout 
2013 . The terminal opened in April 2014, around three years after the original target 
date, setting the stage for future growth in the region . Without the support of Winter Haven, state officials and, ultimately, the communities they serve, this 
development would not have been possible .
Incident response . Community engagement can be very 
challenging, though especially important, when incidents occur  . CSX puts a high priority on preventing incidents 
that can create safety risks, but they can still occur  . 
When they do, our top priority is ensuring the safety of all those involved, especially local community members . 
In November 2013, just a few days before Thanksgiving, 
a derailment in Willard, Ohio, resulted in a punctured railcar that leaked styrene monomer, a flammable liquid . 
Local officials and CSX rushed to notify about 400 nearby 
households, urging them to evacuate the area in the early morning hours immediately following the spill . 
We worked to ensure that community members received 
the best possible Standard of Care during the incident . 
Residents were provided with rooms at local hotels and 
food from local restaurants . Household pets were taken to local shelters and veterinarians . CSX worked with 
affected residents to take care of additional costs incurred 
because of the leak . We also sponsored a Thanksgiving community dinner at the local high school for more than 
250 evacuees .
Once the leak had been contained, CSX employees and 
safety teams escorted the evacuees back to their homes . 
We offered residents in the evacuation zone a way to monitor the air in their homes if they had any ongoing 
concerns about their safety  . In addition, we encouraged 
residents to call 1-877-TELL-CSX, or stop by the local 
Community Outreach Center, to voice concerns about the 
incident .
OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | MARKETS | VALUE CHAIN | SAFETY | ENVIRONMENT | WORKFORCE | COMMUNITY98 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
General Standard Disclosures
Disclosure Indicator  
DescriptionWhere  Reported External Assurance
Strategy and Analysis
G4-1 Statement from the most senior 
decision maker of the organization 
about the relevance of sustainability to 
the organization and its strategy  .Page 1, Chairman’s Message  –
G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities .Page 1, Chairman’s Message –
Organizational Profile
G4-3 Name of the organization . Page 6, CSX at a Glance –
G4-4 Primary brands, products and services . Page 6, CSX at a Glance –
G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters . Page 6, CSX at a Glance –
G4-6 Number of countries where the 
organization operates .Page 10, CSX Network Geography –
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form . CSX 2013 Form 10-K –
G4-8 Markets served . Pages 18–31, Markets –
G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization . Page 8, Key Financials; Page 81, Workforce Composition–
G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, 
employment contract, and region, 
broken down by gender  .Page 81, Workforce Composition; Page 
106, Appendix–
G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements .Page 81, Workforce Demographics; Page 83, Labor Relations–
G4-12 Description of the organization’s 
supply chain .Pages 4–5, Understanding Material Issues–
G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership or supply chain .Page 2, About This Report –
G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the 
precautionary approach or principle 
is addressed by the organization .Page 2, About This Report; CSX 2013 
Form 10-K–
G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 
principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes .Page 59, Environmental Management 
System–
G4-16 Memberships in associations 
and advocacy organizations .Page 55, Employee Safety –
( ✓ ) indicates CSX received third-party assurance on the indicator; ( – ) indicates no third-party assuranceCSX 2013 GRI INDEX
Please download our 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility report at www  .csxcsr  .com . 
CSX received a GRI Materiality Matters check for this report, verifying that our materiality 
and stakeholder engagement processes are in line with the G4 guidelines .2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 99
Disclosure Indicator  
DescriptionWhere  Reported External Assurance
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17 Operational structure of the 
organization .Page 2, About This Report; Pages 3–4, CSX 2013 Form 10-K–
G4-18 Process for defining report content . Pages 4–5, Understanding Material 
Issues–
G4-19 Material aspects identified in the 
process for defining report content .Pages 4–5, Understanding Material Issues–
G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization for each material aspect .Page 5, Management of Material Issues –
G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the 
organization for each material aspect .Page 5, Management of Material Issues –
G4-22 Explanation of any restatements of 
information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatements .Pages 62–63, Environmental Performance Summary–
G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries .Page 2, About This Report –
Stakeholder Engagement
G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by 
organization .Page 3, Engaging with Stakeholders –
G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage .Page 3, Engaging with Stakeholders –
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by 
type and group .Page 3, Engaging with Stakeholders 
Frequency of engagement as noted in 
the table on page 3 ranges by activity 
and stakeholder from every day to once a year  .–
G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization 
has responded .Page 3, Engaging with Stakeholders –
Report Profile
G4-28 Reporting period . Page 2, About This Report –
G4-29 Date of most recent previous report . Page 2, About This Report –
G4-30 Reporting cycle . Page 2, About This Report –
G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding 
the report .Back Cover –
G4-32 Table identifying the location of 
standard disclosures in the report .Pages 98–105, GRI Index –
( ✓ ) indicates CSX received third-party assurance on the indicator; ( – ) indicates no third-party assurance100 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Disclosure Indicator  
DescriptionWhere  Reported External Assurance
G4-33 External assurance . Page 2, About This Report –
Governance
G4-34 Governance structure of the 
organization .Pages 12–17, Executive Leadership, Board of Directors, Leadership Structure–
Ethics and Integrity
G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, 
standards and norms of behavior such 
as codes of conduct and codes of 
ethics .Page 7, CSX Sustainability Statement, Pages 16–17, Governance Policies, 
Page 59, Our Environmental Policy–
G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethics and lawful 
behavior, and matters related to organization integrity  .Pages 16–17, Governance Policies –
G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for 
reporting concerns about unethical or 
unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity  .Pages 16–17, Governance Policies –
Specific Standard Disclosures
Material  AspectsDMA and  IndicatorsWhere  ReportedOmissions External Assurance
Performance Indicators:  Economic Performance
G4-DMA EC All DMA EC The CSX executive leadership 
team has ultimate organizational 
responsibility, overseen by the 
Board of Directors . We monitor performance and develop action 
plans in situations where we 
want to improve performance .–
G4-DMA DMA Economic Performance Page 8, Financial Performance Highlights–
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed .Page 8, Financial Performance Highlights; CSX 2013 Form 10-K (Income Statement on 
Page 53, Balance Sheet on 
Page 55)–
G4-DMA DMA Indirect Economic Impacts Pages 86–97, Community –
G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported .Pages 87–88 , Approach to Charitable Giving, Page 97, Community Engagement–
( ✓ ) indicates CSX received third-party assurance on the indicator; ( – ) indicates no third-party assurance2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 101
Material  
AspectsDMA and  IndicatorsWhere  ReportedOmissions External Assurance
Performance Indicators:  Environmental
G4-DMA EN All DMA EN The CSX executive leadership 
team has ultimate organizational 
responsibility, overseen by the 
Board of Directors . We monitor performance and develop action 
plans in situations where we 
want to improve performance .–
G4-DMA DMA Energy Pages 58–73, Environment –
G4-EN3 Energy consumption 
within the organization .Page 62, Environmental Performance Summary–
G4-EN4 Energy consumption 
outside the organization .Pages 65–67, Operational Efficiency–
G4-EN5 Energy intensity  . Page 62, Environmental Performance Summary–
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption .Page 64, Fuel Efficiency; Pages 65–67, Operational Efficiency–
G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services .Pages 64–65, Greenhouse Gas Emissions–
G4-DMA DMA Water Pages 58–73, Environment –
G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source .Page 71, Water Use . Sources of water include surface water, 
collected rainwater and, at 
certain sites, well water  .–
G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of 
water recycled and reused .Page 71, Water Use –
G4-DMA DMA Biodiversity Pages 58–73, Environment –
G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored . Pages 68–69, Land 
Management and Biodiversity–
G4-DMA DMA Emissions Pages 58–73, Environment –
G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions  (Scope 1) .Page 62, Environmental Performance Summary
✓
G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) .Page 62, Environmental Performance Summary
✓
G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) .Page 62, Environmental Performance Summary
✓
G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity  . Page 62, Environmental Performance Summary ✓
G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions . Pages 64–65, Greenhouse Gas Emissions ✓
( ✓ ) indicates CSX received third-party assurance on the indicator; ( – ) indicates no third-party assurance102 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Material  
AspectsDMA and  IndicatorsWhere  ReportedOmissions External Assurance
G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions .Page 62, Environmental Performance Summary  . NOx 
and SOx emissions are the only 
types of significant emissions 
generated by CSX .✓
G4-DMA Effluents and Waste Pages 58–73, Environment –
G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type 
and disposal method .Pages 62–63, Environmental Performance Summary–
G4-DMA Products and Services Pages 58–73, Environment; 
Pages 32–43, Value Chain–
G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation 
of environmental impacts of 
products and services .Page 64, Fuel Efficiency; Pages 
68–69, Land Management and 
Biodiversity–
G4-DMA Compliance Pages 58–73, Environment –
G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-
compliance with environmental 
laws and regulations .Page 73, Environmental Performance and Compliance–
G4-DMA Supplier Environmental 
AssessmentPages 32–43, Value Chain –
G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers 
that were screened using environmental criteria .Page 42, Considering Supplier Sustainability–
Performance Indicators:  Labor Practices and Decent Work
G4-DMA LA All DMA LA The CSX executive leadership 
team has ultimate organizational 
responsibility, overseen by the 
Board of Directors . We monitor performance and develop action 
plans in situations where we 
want to improve performance .–
G4-DMA Employment Pages 74–85, Workforce –
G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender 
and region .Page 81, Workforce 
Composition; Pages 106–108,Appendix–
G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employees .Pages 82–83, Employee 
Compensation and Benefits–
G4-DMA Labor/Management Relations Pages 74–85, Workforce –
( ✓ ) indicates CSX received third-party assurance on the indicator; ( – ) indicates no third-party assurance2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 103
Material  
AspectsDMA and  IndicatorsWhere  ReportedOmissions External Assurance
G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these 
are specified in collective 
agreements .Pages 83–84, Labor Relations –
G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety Pages 44–57, Safety –
G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, 
occupational diseases, lost 
days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related 
fatalities, by region and by 
gender  .Pages 55–57, Employee Safety –
G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or 
high risk of diseases related to 
their occupation .Pages 55–57, Employee Safety –
G4-DMA Training and Education Pages 74–85, Workforce –
G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 
reviews, by gender and by 
employee category  .Pages 76–77, Training and Development–
G4-DMA Diversity and Equal Opportunity Pages 74–85, Workforce –
G4-LA12 Composition of governance 
bodies and breakdown of 
employees per employee category according to gender, 
age group, minority group 
membership and other indicators of diversity  .Pages 14–15, Board of 
Directors; Pages 77–80,
Workforce of Tomorrow–
G4-DMA Labor Practices Grievance MechanismsPages 74–85, Workforce –
G4-LA16 Number of grievances about 
labor practices filed, addressed 
and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms .Page 83, Employee Policies –
Performance Indicators:  Human Rights
G4-DMA HR All DMA HR The CSX executive leadership 
team has ultimate organizational responsibility, overseen by the 
Board of Directors . We monitor 
performance and develop action plans in situations where we 
want to improve performance .–
G4-DMA Freedom of Association and 
Collective BargainingPages 74–85, Workforce –
( ✓ ) indicates CSX received third-party assurance on the indicator; ( – ) indicates no third-party assurance104 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Material  
AspectsDMA and  IndicatorsWhere  ReportedOmissions External Assurance
G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association 
and collective bargaining may 
be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support 
these rights .CSX does not have operations 
in locations where the right to exercise freedom of association 
may be violated . 100 percent 
of our union workforce is covered by collective bargaining 
agreements . CSX does not have 
any knowledge of significant suppliers whose right to 
exercise freedom of association 
and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk . 
As part of our procurement 
process, we evaluate our suppliers in several performance 
areas, including those related 
to labor practices . Where risks are identified, we work 
with our suppliers to correct 
these issues, and we monitor continued performance through 
our annual supplier quality 
assessment program .–
Performance Indicators:  Society
G4-DMA SO All DMA SO The CSX executive leadership 
team has ultimate organizational 
responsibility, overseen by the Board of Directors . We monitor 
performance and develop action 
plans in situations where we want to improve performance .–
G4-DMA Local Communities Pages 86–97, Community –
G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments and development programs .Page 97, Community Engagement–
G4-DMA Anti-Corruption Pages 12–17, Governance –
G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the 
significant risks identified .Pages 16–17, Governance 
Policies; Pages 6–11, CSX 2013 Form 10-K (Risk Factors)–
G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and 
procedures .Pages 16–17, Governance 
Policies–
G4-DMA Public Policy Pages 12–17, Governance –
G4-SO6 Total value of political 
contributions by country and 
recipient/beneficiary  .Page 17, Public Policy and 
Advocacy–
( ✓ ) indicates CSX received third-party assurance on the indicator; ( – ) indicates no third-party assurance2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 105
Material  
AspectsDMA and  IndicatorsWhere  ReportedOmissions External Assurance
G4-DMA Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on SocietyPages 45–49, Public Safety –
G4-SO11 Number of grievances about 
impacts on society filed, 
addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 
mechanisms .Pages 48–49, Public Safety Coordination Center and 
TellCSX Service Center–
Performance Indicators:  Product Responsibility
G4-DMA PR All DMA PR The CSX executive leadership 
team has ultimate organizational 
responsibility, overseen by the 
Board of Directors . We monitor performance and develop action 
plans in situations where we 
want to improve performance .–
G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety Pages 32–43, Value Chain –
G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety 
impacts are assessed for 
improvement .Pages 33–39, Customers –
( ✓ ) indicates CSX received third-party assurance on the indicator; ( – ) indicates no third-party assurance106 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Gender Contract Non-Contract Total
Female 923 1,092 2,015
Male 25,313 3,687 29,000
TOTAL 26,236 4,779 31,015
Gender Contract Non-Contract Total
Female 4% 23% 6%
Male 96% 77% 94%
TOTAL 100% 100% 100%
Ethnicity Contract Non-Contract Total
Minority 3,823 936 4,759
Non-Minority 22,413 3,843 26,256
TOTAL 26,236 4,779 31,015
Ethnicity Contract Non-Contract Total
Minority 15% 20% 15%
Non-Minority 85% 80% 85%
TOTAL 100% 100% 100%
United 
StatesContract Non-Contract Total
Floating 4,012 1 4,013
AL 1,103 83 1,186
AR - 1 1
CA - 5 5
CT 7 1 8
DC 34 16 50
DE 35 5 40
FL 2,027 2,675 4,702
GA 2,415 318 2,733
IL 834 133 967APPENDIX
Headcount Data
IN 1,389 105 1,494
KY 1,814 183 1,997
LA 132 8 140
MA 234 17 251
MD 1,320 151 1,471
ME - 1 1
MI 368 44 412
MO - 1 1
MS 35 1 36
NC 881 80 961
NJ 143 60 203
NM - 1 1
NY 1,801 165 1,966
OH 2,653 224 2,877
PA 780 63 843
SC 742 75 817
TN 1,290 136 1,426
TX - 8 8
VA 939 77 1,016
WA 1 5 6
WI - 1 1
WV 1,206 133 1,339
TOTAL 26,195 4,777 30,972
Canada Contract Non-Contract Total
Floating 30 - 30
NY 1 - 1
ON - 1 1
QC 10 1 11
Mexico Contract Non-Contract Total
- 7 7
TOTAL 41 2 432013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 107
Gender Management Union Total
Female 70 48 118
Male 168 2,052 2,220
TOTAL 238 2,100 2,338
Ethnicity Management Union Total
Minority 74 468 560
Non-Minority 164 1,614 1,778
TOTAL 238 2,100 2,338
Age Management Union Total
19 – 29 94 914 1,008
30 – 39 74 731 805
40 – 49 48 392 440
50 – 59 16 63 79
60+ 6 - 6
TOTAL 238 2,100 2,338Hiring Data
United 
StatesManagement Union Total
AL - 174 147
DC 2 2 4
DE - 1 1
FL 194 229 423
GA 4 266 270
IL 5 114 119
IN 2 166 168
KY 3 84 87
LA - 27 27
MA - 37 37
MD 2 140 142
MI 0 27 27
NC 0 78 78
NJ 2 13 15
NY 5 166 171
OH 3 222 225
PA 3 100 103
QC 1 6 7
SC 1 61 62
TN 3 91 94
VA 3 59 62
WV 4 62 66
1 2 33
TOTAL 238 2,100 2,338108 2013 CSX SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
United 
StatesManagement Union Total
Floating 1 237 238
AL 7 98 105
CO 1 - 1
DC 2 2 4
DE - 3 3
FL 195 154 349
GA 11 163 174
IL 3 63 69
IN 6 93 99
KY 7 100 107
LA 3 20 23
MA 2 31 33
MD 14 108 122
MI 4 39 43
MS - 1 1
NC 4 52 56
NJ 4 14 18
NY 12 133 145
OH 17 151 168
PA 5 3 8
QC - 67 67
RI - 2 2
SC 4 43 46
TN 8 74 82
VA 7 61 68
WV 4 86 90
TOTAL 321 1,798 2,119Turnover Data
Gender Management Union Total
Female 82 75 157
Male 239 1,723 1,962
TOTAL 321 1,798 2,119
Ethnicity Management Union Total
Minority 57 339 396
Non-Minority 264 1,459 1,723
TOTAL 321 1,798 2,119[ page intentionally blank ]Contacts
Thank you for your interest in CSX . Please use the following index to direct your inquiries and comments .CSX Corporate Headquarters
500 Water St ., 15th Floor 
Jacksonville, FL 32202 
(904) 359-3200 
www  .csx .com
Stock Listing 
CSX’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange . The official trading symbol is “CSX .”Stock Transfer Agent Broadridge DSP C/O Broadridge Shareholder Services P . O . Box 1342 
Brentwood, NY 11717 1-800-521-5571 shareholder  .broadridge .com/csxCSX Direct Stock Purchase Plan . CSX Corporation offers a Direct Stock Purchase Plan for investors to purchase or sell CSX Corporation Common Stock . This plan is sponsored and administered by Broadridge, the Company’s transfer agent, and is available to both current shareholders of record as well as to individual investors who wish to make an initial purchase of CSX Corporation Common Stock . The CSX Direct Stock Purchase Plan is a convenient and flexible way for you to invest in the common stock of CSX Corporation .Independent Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Jacksonville, FLCORPORATE SOCIAL  
RESPONSIBILITY
Tori Kaplan 
Assistant Vice President, 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
500 Water St ., C420 Jacksonville, FL 32202 
(904) 359-1799 
Tori_Kaplan@CSX .comINVESTOR  
RELATIONS
David Baggs Vice President, 
Capital Markets and Investor Relations 
500 Water St ., C110 Jacksonville, FL 32202 
(904) 359-4812 
David_Baggs@CSX .comMEDIA AND  
PUBLIC RELATIONS
Gary Sease Vice President, 
Corporate Communications 
500 Water St ., C420 Jacksonville, FL 32202 
(904) 359-1719 
Gary_Sease@CSX .com