2019   
Environmental, 
Social, and 
Governance 
Report Table of Contents
2 
A Message From our 
President and CEO
6 
About CSX
10 
Awards and 
Accomplishments12 
ESG at CSX
16 
The Future of Freight
20 
Customer Experience32 
Safety
46 
Environment
56 
People68 
Communities
88 
ESG Fundamentals80 
Governance94 
2019 ESG  
Performance Data
118 
SASB Index108 
GRI Standards Index120 
TCFD Index
124 
Appendix2  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  3A Message From our President 
and Chief Executive Officer, 
James M. Foote 
CSX’s goal is to be the best-run railroad 
in North America. Fundamental to that 
goal is strong environmental, social, 
and governance (ESG) performance. 
2  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance ReportAs a railroad, we have the opportunity and the 
imperative to help decrease transportation-related 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Trains are on 
average three to four times more fuel efficient than 
trucks – producing up to 75% fewer GHG emissions. 
Not only is this an enormous environmental advantage 
for freight rail, it is a significant opportunity for 
customers looking to reduce their own carbon 
footprints. 
At CSX, we take this advantage as a baseline. We are 
constantly searching for and applying new ways to 
achieve greater environmental savings. In 2019, CSX 
became the first U.S. Class I railroad to operate at a 
fuel efficiency rate of less than one gallon of fuel per 
thousand gross ton miles for a quarter. 
We are proud of this achievement, but we press 
forward with urgency to improve further, not only on environmental performance, but also within each of 
our ESG priorities, including keeping our employees 
and communities safe; delivering excellent customer 
service; building a diverse, world-class workforce; and 
upholding high ethical standards. 
The Future of Freight
Since 2017, CSX has undergone a significant 
transformation. We revolutionized our operating model, 
wholly transforming the company’s financial and ESG 
profile. The transformation has allowed us to achieve 
new levels of reliability, customer service, safety, and 
environmental efficiency. It has allowed CSX to be 
more adaptable and more nimble, qualities that are 
ever more critical today. 
Our company’s remarkable transformation over the 
past three years has shown us how freight rail can 
provide significant benefits to the country’s supply chain. We are on a mission to 
demonstrate that the future 
of freight rail is delivering safe 
efficient, reliable, and sustainable 
service to all of our customers. 
2019: A Milestone Year 
While transformation initiatives 
continue, the results of our hard 
work truly began to show this 
past year. In 2019, CSX set a 
new company safety record 
for the fewest Federal Railroad 
Administration (FRA) reportable 
personal injuries and had the 
lowest injury rate of all Class 
I railroads. We also set a new 
company record for fewest FRA–
reportable train accidents. 
We delivered superior customer 
service, achieving faster transit 
times, greater schedule reliability, 
and transparency of network 
performance. 
In addition to achieving record fuel 
efficiency, we exceeded our 2020 
GHG emissions reduction target 
ahead of schedule. Further, CSX 
became the first railroad in the U.S. 
to align with the Science Based 
Targets initiative, setting a goal to 
reduce GHG emissions intensity by 
37.3% by 2030, using 2014 as our 
baseline. 
Smart use of data and technology 
is a key pillar of the transformation. 
Upgraded and expanded use of 
data and technology across our 
business have helped us advance 
a range of business priorities – 
including increasing efficiency, 
optimizing workplace safety, 
enhancing customer service, and 
achieving environmental gains. 
For example, through our Trip Plan Performance Tool, CSX 
customers can now see detailed 
delivery performance data on 
every container and trailer they 
ship. Also, by the end of this year, 
autonomous track assessment 
cars will conduct regular track 
inspections on more than half of 
our core mainline tracks. These 
cars and their data collection 
capabilities have already been 
instrumental in reducing accidents 
and we are optimistic that we will 
see even greater safety gains as 
we expand their use. 
This past year, we celebrated the 
first anniversary of CSX Pride 
in Service, our company-wide 
commitment to honor and serve 
those who serve our country and 
our communities — our nation’s 
veterans, military, and first 
responders. While Pride in Service 
is a long-term commitment, 
our initial goal was to positively 
impact more than 100,000 heroes 
and family members by the end 
of 2020. With the enthusiastic 
involvement of CSX employees, 
by the end of 2019 we had already 
reached 85,000 individuals. 
This report discusses these 
achievements and other 
milestones, as well as the 
opportunities still ahead. We are 
proud of the progress we have 
made and are ready to undertake 
the challenges that remain.  
A Thank You
Foremost among the challenges 
ahead will be continuing to 
support our nation’s recovery from 
unprecedented disruption. The 
coronavirus pandemic, in addition 
to upending our daily lives, has created supply chain challenges 
across the global economy. CSX 
has been privileged to ensure 
timely delivery of essential goods 
and keep America’s economy 
moving. Now more than ever, our 
ability to provide safe, reliable, and 
efficient rail service will be essential 
to our nation’s economic vitality.
As we navigate through the crisis, 
my top priority is our people. Over 
the past several months, we have 
implemented rigorous measures 
to protect their health and safety 
and that of their families. As 2020 
continues to unfold with all of 
its unknowns, safeguarding our 
employees is foremost in our 
decision-making. 
I want to take this moment to 
extend my gratitude to all of the 
CSX employees who are answering 
the call to duty with unwavering 
dedication. This remarkable group of 
railroaders does the essential jobs, 
day in and day out, that need to be 
done to keep a great freight railroad 
running at peak performance. It is 
their dedication and commitment 
that gets critical supplies where 
they need to go during these 
difficult times. Thank you for your 
service, thank you for your grit and 
perseverance, thank you for your 
teamwork. I am honored to be 
part of this resilient group. Looking 
ahead, we are ready to embark on 
the next phase of sustainable growth 
and to make CSX the sustainable 
transportation mode of choice. While 
the path ahead may be challenging, 
the people of CSX are resolved to 
continue our momentum as we 
transform the future of rail freight 
transportation. 4  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  5
A Message From our President and CEO
Responding to the  
COVID-19 Crisis
As the COVID-19 pandemic 
continues to unfold, CSX is 
implementing a rigorous plan 
to manage the situation and 
do right by our stakeholders. A 
brief overview of our activities is 
below. For more information, visit 
CSX’s coronavirus prevention and 
response strategy page. 
For employees: CSX issued 
a Coronavirus Prevention and 
Response Policy and implemented 
measures to safeguard employees’ 
health, such as deploying 
automation technologies where 
possible to help our employees 
maintain physical distancing while 
ensuring our network operates as 
safely and efficiently as possible. 
We have also implemented remote 
work arrangements for employees 
whose job functions permit.
For customers: CSX has 
implemented protective protocols 
designed to ensure our rail system 
continues to perform at a high level 
and is ready to meet the needs 
of our customers as the situation 
unfolds. We remain committed 
to providing efficient and reliable 
rail service to keep supply chains 
fluid as the nation responds to this 
challenge. In addition, we remain 
steadfast in our commitment to 
safely moving our customers’ 
freight, while working with them 
on any supply chain adjustments 
needed during this time. In Q1 
of 2020, even in the midst of the 
pandemic, our levels of service  
with regard to efficiency and on-
time delivery were the best they 
have ever been. For communities: We are working 
closely with our Pride in Service 
nonprofit partners to ensure that 
military families, veterans, and first 
responders still receive the support 
they need – even and especially 
in the midst of social distancing 
restrictions and closures. We have 
also joined with Pride in Service 
partners Operation Gratitude and 
the First Responders Children’s 
Foundation to establish new 
coalitions and funds to provide 
special support to frontline 
responders in the coronavirus 
crisis, including hospital workers, 
paramedics, emergency medical 
technicians, and 911 dispatchers. 
James M. Foote
President and Chief Executive OfficerA Message From our President and CEO6  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  7
Major Terminal
CSX Rail Service
CSX Operating 
AgreementCincinnati
JacksonvilleSavannahCharlestonFlorenceHamletRocky MountRichmondBaltimoreCumberland
NashvilleLouisville RussellAvonChicago Toledo Detroit
Willard
ColumbusBuffaloSyracuse
Selkirk
TampaMajor Terminal
CSX Rail Service
CSX Operating 
AgreementNew OrleansWaycrossAtlanta
MontgomeryBirminghamClevelandAbout CSX
CSX, a Class I railroad, is one of the nation’s leading transportation 
suppliers. The company’s rail and intermodal businesses provide 
rail-based transportation services including traditional rail service 
and the transport of intermodal containers and trailers.
The CSX transportation network encompasses 
approximately 20,000 route miles of track in 23 states, 
the District of Columbia, and the Canadian provinces 
of Ontario and Quebec. 
We move a broad portfolio of products across the 
country in a way that reduces our impact on the 
environment, takes traffic off congested roads, and 
minimizes fuel consumption and transportation costs. 
We provide key freight services across an array of 
markets, including energy, industrial, construction, 
agricultural, and consumer products.
For nearly 200 years, CSX has played a critical role in 
North America’s economic expansion and industrial 
development. Our transportation network serves 
some of the largest population 
centers in the nation. Nearly two-
thirds of Americans live within 
CSX’s service territory.As a pioneer in the most energy-efficient form of land-
based freight transportation, CSX is dedicated to ESG 
and innovation in the freight industry. As the demand 
for reliable, efficient freight services grows and 
technology advances, we intend to take a leadership 
role in demonstrating that rail transportation has a 
growing part to play in North American supply chains 
in the decades to come. 8  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  9Our Vision
To be the best-run railroad in  
North America
Our Business  
Our network connects every 
major metropolitan area in the 
eastern United States, more than 
230 short line railroads, and more 
than 70 port terminals along the 
Atlantic and Gulf coasts, the 
Mississippi River, the Great Lakes, 
and the St. Lawrence Seaway.About CSX
20,908 
Employees193 
Years in 
operation
1,848 
Average trains 
per day20,000 
Route-mile rail 
network
More than 3.5M carloads and 2.7M 
intermodal units shipped in 20193,500More than
locomotives
18%
Coal15%
Intermodal21%
Chemicals11%
Automotive5%
Minerals4%
Fertilizers6%
Metals and 
Equipment8%
Forest Products12%
Agricultural and 
Food66%
MerchandiseOur Revenue Mix
In 2019, CSX generated $11.9 billion in revenue through three primary 
lines of business: merchandise, coal, and intermodal.10  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  11About CSX
Awards and 
Accomplishments
In 2019, CSX was recognized 
with several high-profile awards, 
rankings, and other honors for our 
sustainable business practices.2019 Dow Jones  
Sustainability Index
CSX received this top sustainability 
honor for the ninth consecutive 
year for high performance in 
environmental management, 
corporate governance, supply 
chain management, and corporate 
citizenship and philanthropy.
World Finance Magazine —  
2019 Most Sustainable Company 
in the Logistics Industry
CSX was selected by World 
Finance magazine as the winner 
in the logistics category for our 
commitment to ESG policies in all 
aspects of our operations.
Disability: IN — Best Place to 
Work for Disability Inclusion
CSX was named a “Best Place 
to Work for Disability Inclusion” 
by Disability:IN and American 
Association of People with 
Disabilities, scoring 100% on the 
2019 Disability Equality Index.Women’s Forum of New York — 
Corporate Champion for Board 
Diversity
CSX received this top recognition 
for our commitment to board 
diversity and inclusion, ensuring 
a variety of voices have decision-
making power in our business.
CDP — Leadership Status
For seven consecutive years, CSX 
has been awarded leadership 
status by CDP, an independent, 
global non-governmental 
organization that scores 8,400 
companies on their efforts to 
address environmental issues. 
CSX is the only Class I railroad in 
the United States to consistently 
receive this highest CDP ranking.
ISS ESG — Prime Company  
and U.S. Transport and Logistics 
Industry Leader
CSX achieved “prime” status 
by leading rater ISS ESG for our 
strong ESG performance across 
our operations.Inbound Logistics — 75 Green 
Supply Chain Partners
CSX earned a spot on the list of 
75 Green Supply Chain Partners 
selected by the editors of Inbound 
Logistics in its June 2019 issue 
recognizing companies that are 
committed to sustainable, eco-
friendly supply chain services.
International Cargo Handling 
Coordination Association 
(ICHCA) — Safety Award
A system developed by CSX and 
two technology partners for semi-
automated crane operations at 
the Winter Haven (Fla.) Intermodal 
Terminal received a prestigious 
safety award from the ICHCA 
for achieving significant safety 
improvements. 
Engage for Good Halo Awards – 
Gold Employee Engagement
CSX was awarded the Gold level 
for the Employee Engagement 
category for the meaningful work 
Pride in Service has been doing to 
engage employees through cause-
focused initiatives. U.S. Veterans Magazine – Top 
Veteran-Friendly Company
The U.S. Veterans Magazine 
identified CSX as a Top Veteran-
Friendly Company in 2019 for our 
efforts in welcoming veterans to 
our company to join the 3,700 
veterans, active-duty military, and 
first responders who currently 
work at CSX. 
Association of American 
Railroads — 2019 John 
H. Chafee Environmental 
Excellence Award
Gary Van Tassel, director of 
operations planning, received this 
award for leadership in innovating 
terminal modifications to improve 
energy and network efficiency 
and reduce CSX’s environmental 
impacts. Association of American 
Railroads — 2019 North 
American Environmental 
Employee Excellence Award
Brian M. Zacker, regional 
manager of environmental field 
services, received this award 
for establishing a materials 
collection and recycling program, 
improving hazardous waste 
processes, and standardizing risk-
reduction processes for hurricane 
preparation and recovery. Progressive Railroading –  
2019 Rising Stars
James Schwichtenberg, chief 
safety officer at CSX, was selected 
as one of 25 rising stars within the 
North American railroad industry. 
Insight Success – The Most 
Admired Women Leaders in 
Business
CSX’s Kathleen Brandt, senior 
vice president of technology and 
chief information officer, was one 
of ten women selected by Insight 
Success as part of its 2019 Most 
Admired Women Leaders in 
Business list. 
CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  13
 12  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
OUR APPROACH 
We have an unwavering commitment to the safety of 
our employees and the general public; the service of 
our customers; the disciplined utilization of assets; the 
support of our people and the communities where we 
operate; and the protection of our natural environment. 
The Governance Committee, whose members and 
chair are elected annually by the Board, oversees the 
development and execution of CSX’s ESG strategy 
and reporting. Additionally, the Audit Committee of 
the Board has responsibility for risk oversight and 
evaluation of climate-related issues, including risks 
associated with energy and environmental policy. 
On a daily basis, ESG is collaboratively managed by 
the respective operational departments. Operational 
leaders are responsible for measuring and monitoring 
progress against key performance indicators and  
for reviewing and applying stakeholder feedback  
and insights.
  ESG at CSX
Our leadership in the freight rail industry and our aspiration to be 
the best-run railroad in North America rely on our ability to conduct 
business in a sustainable way that does right by our customers, 
employees, communities, and shareholders. 
“Looking ahead, we are ready 
to embark on the next phase 
of sustainable growth by 
making CSX rail the ground 
transportation mode of choice. 
By providing best-in-class 
service and unprecedented 
reliability to our customers, 
we’re able to convert freight 
from the highway to rail and 
significantly reduce carbon 
emissions.” 
James M. Foote 
President and  
Chief Executive OfficerCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  15 14  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance ReportOUR ESG PRIORITIES
In early 2020, we refreshed 
our materiality assessment, 
engaging both internal and 
external stakeholders to identify 
the issues most material to CSX. 
The outcome of this assessment 
informed the content and structure 
of the 2019 ESG Report, and it 
will guide the evolution of our ESG 
strategy and approach over the 
coming years.  ESG at CSX
“Ensuring that our company is a
responsible corporate citizen extends
far beyond one department or function. 
It’s embedded in our corporate culture, 
which recognizes that good governance 
is more than a structure of policies and 
best practices. It means constantly 
asking what’s in the long-term best 
interest of our stakeholders, including
employees, customers, shareholders,
government agencies, and communities 
we serve. Understanding and addressing 
those interests is consistent with and 
supports sustainable growth.”
 ›Delivering excellent customer 
service
 ›Ethical business conduct
 ›Employee and community 
safety 
 ›Hazard management and 
emergency preparedness
 ›Employee health and well-
being
 ›Cyber and information security
 ›Compliance with legislation 
and regulations Priority Issues
As determined by the 2020 materiality assessment: 
 ›Energy and fuel efficiency
 ›Talent management 
 ›Physical security
 ›Business model disruption
 ›Governance and risk 
management
For more details about our 
latest materiality assessment, 
including the full materiality 
matrix, please see the ESG 
Fundamentals section. ABOUT THIS REPORT
CSX’s 2019 ESG report shares 
information on the environmental, 
social, and governance topics 
that CSX and our stakeholders 
view as the most significant to our 
business. The report documents 
CSX’s activities and impact 
in calendar year 2019, unless 
otherwise noted. 
The report is prepared in 
accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards: Core option and 
contains indicators from the 
Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) 
framework. We have also aligned 
our climate-related disclosures 
with the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD). 
Please reference the relevant 
GRI Standards, SASB, and TCFD indices for the detailed overview 
of disclosures. Please also 
reference our latest CDP climate 
change submission for additional 
climate disclosures.
Thank you for your interest in 
CSX’s 2019 ESG performance. 
The purpose of this report is 
to support a dialogue with our 
stakeholders. Please email us your 
thoughts, questions, and feedback 
at ESG@csx.com. 
Nathan D. Goldman 
Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer 
and Corporate SecretaryCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  17
 16  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
The goal of CSX’s operating model is to improve 
transit times and enhance reliability, resulting in more 
consistent freight flows, a more sustainable use of 
resources across the CSX network, a superior service 
product for our customers, and a safe and rewarding 
work environment for CSX employees.
At its core, the CSX model is about maximizing 
efficiencies and identifying and eliminating waste. Every 
extra mile and every extra asset that does not contribute 
to the quality and consistency of our transportation 
product is removed from the system. 
Three years since our journey began, this operational 
transformation has made CSX a nimbler, more adaptive, 
and more sustainable company that can handle growth 
and change quickly and efficiently. As a result of the 
transformation, we now operate far more cohesively, 
without competing internal priorities. We are powered 
by technology and innovation and driven by a safety-
first and service-oriented mindset – always grounded in 
data insights and proven best practices. 
Customers are the primary beneficiaries of these 
changes. CSX can now uniquely partner with customers to provide end-to-end transportation solutions with 
industry leading environmental benefits, enabling 
customers to achieve both an increase in efficiency and 
a decrease in their environmental footprint.The Future of Freight
In 2017, CSX embarked on a transformative journey  
to revolutionize our operating model to become the safest, 
most efficient, best-run railroad in North America, offering 
unparalleled service and environmental benefits  
to customers. 
“In addition to decreasing transit 
times and increasing reliability, 
the CSX operating model drives 
greater efficiency and improved 
safety. It enables us to reduce 
waste and move more freight  
per gallon of fuel.” HOW WE’VE STREAMLINED THE CSX NETWORK
A major element of our transformation has been the integration 
of the operations of CSX’s many predecessor railroads. As 
these railroads merged to form CSX’s current footprint, often the 
operations of each heritage railroad remained different and distinct. 
Each predecessor railroad was aligned with one of 11 divisions, 
typically maintained its own large processing hump yard, and 
operated with a high degree of autonomy. Thus, train operations 
were often based on inefficient schedules, as cars would often 
be directed to multiple hump yards as they traversed through 
divisions. This typically took the car out of its most direct route, 
added unnecessary steps, increased dwell, added excess costs, 
and degraded service reliability and transit times. 
The CSX Operating team consolidated these divisions and 
removed the anachronistic barriers to network planning. Operations 
were restructured around just three regions, and 7 of the 12 asset–
intensive hump yards were closed. The team also centralized 
dispatching to a single location and redesigned the network plan 
to create hourly trip plans for each car on the railroad. The new 
plan focuses on how each car can be moved along the most direct 
possible route with as few touches as possible. These changes 
resulted in a reduction of more than two days in average transit 
time and a significantly more fluid and reliable network. 
Jamie Boychuk 
Executive Vice President  
of Operations18  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  19Our Guiding Principles
Our transformed operating model is rooted in five guiding principles: Improve Customer Service, 
Operate Safely, Value and Develop Employees, Optimize Asset Utilization, and Control Costs.
Improve Customer Service: 
Do what we say we are going 
to do. Know your customer and 
understand how you can drive 
value. Proactively communicate 
at all times including when we 
cannot meet our commitments.Reduction in FRA personal 
injury rate
Optimize Asset Utilization:
Do more with less by 
maximizing the value of our 
assets through increased transit 
speed and lower dwell.Operate Safely: 
Maintain 100% compliance 
with safety and operating rules 
100% of the time to protect 
our employees, our customers’ 
freight, and the communities in 
which we operate.Reduction in FRA train 
accident rate
Control Costs: 
Eliminate unnecessary 
steps that add complexity 
and costs.Value and Develop Employees: 
Act with integrity, make sure 
employees know what is 
expected of them and reward them 
when they do the right things, and 
always strive to get better.Less terminal car dwell time
$
ADVANCING ESG THROUGH 
TRANSFORMATION
Our operational transformation 
enabled us to drive improvements 
across the business, including 
our ESG performance. Most 
significantly, we have been able to:
 ›Improve safety performance 
across the network through 
enhanced safety training, 
processes, and technology ›Achieve faster transit times, 
greater schedule reliability, 
increased transparency of 
network performance, and 
more consistent freight flows, 
resulting in a superior service for 
customers  
 ›Reduce fuel usage and emissions 
by converting more road miles 
to rail miles and realizing higher 
utilization of assets across 
the network – reducing CSX’s carbon footprint as well as our 
customers’ footprints
WHAT’S AHEAD
The next phase of CSX’s 
transformation focuses on capturing 
the full value of the improved 
service by generating profitable and 
sustainable growth. Increased fluidity 
and efficiencies across the network 
allow us to provide a level of service, Transformation ESG Performance Highlights 
Progress from 2016-2019*
15%18%23%
Better fuel efficiency7.1%
Less GHG emissions6.5%The Future of Freight
transparency, efficiency, and 
reliability that was not previously 
possible. 
With continued investments in 
rail assets, accident prevention, 
environmental technology, fuel 
efficiency, and more, we continue 
to look for opportunities to better 
serve our customers and employees 
and to make rail the sustainable 
transportation mode of choice. First U.S. Class I railroad 
to cross this fuel efficiency 
threshold1.0gallon/
kGTM
*Safety statistics are estimated and 
continue to be updated as actuals settle.“CSX is proving that sustainable 
transportation has many facets that fit 
together to benefit all of our stakeholders. 
Operating efficiency supports improved 
service, which drives sustainable growth 
and ultimately provides the financial 
strength to further grow the business and 
benefit communities through the safety 
and environmental advantages of rail.”
Kevin Boone 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial OfficerCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  21
 20  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance ReportOUR APPROACH 
We are committed to providing best-in-class service 
and reliable, cost-efficient transportation solutions 
that are safe, smart, and sustainable to our more than 
3,300 customers across 6,000 locations. 
At CSX, we all own the customer experience. Every 
employee, whether customer-facing or not, is 
expected to meet or exceed our customers’ needs. 
Maintaining open lines of communication and actively 
listening to our customers’ needs and challenges 
is essential to our ability to provide exceptional 
customer service. Our Sales and Marketing teams are 
responsible for overseeing customer experience and 
addressing customer feedback, partnering closely 
with Operations and other teams to offer an industry-
leading service product. 
In 2019, we restructured our Sales and Marketing 
organization to better utilize resources and facilitate 
knowledge sharing to improve how we serve 
customers. We also intensified efforts to partner with 
customers to help them achieve their unique logistical 
and environmental goals. Customer Experience
Our Approach
Transforming How We Deliver Excellent Customer Service 
Technology and Tools 
Customer Feedback and Engagement 
Operations Support 
Enabling Growth and Sustainability
“Ultimately, CSX succeeds 
when our customers succeed. 
By doing our jobs well, we 
enable our customers to 
grow and support strong 
communities. We give our 
customers incentive to 
choose rail, which is safe 
and sustainable. And we 
support a more efficient and 
productive U.S. economy.” 
Mark K. Wallace 
Executive Vice President  
of Sales and MarketingCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  23 22  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance ReportTRANSFORMING HOW 
WE DELIVER EXCELLENT 
CUSTOMER SERVICE 
Improving customer service is one 
of the five guiding principles at 
the center of our transformation. 
Thanks to greater efficiencies 
resulting from the implementation 
of CSX’s new operating model, 
including the smart application 
of technology, CSX is now better 
positioned to be a best-in-class 
supply chain partner to customers. 
Since the beginning of the 
transformation, average transit time 
for merchandise carloads has been 
reduced by more than two days. 
Carload trip plan performance 
jumped from 67.3% in 2018 to 
82.6% at the end of 2019 and 
intermodal trip plan performance 
increased from 73.4% to 95.5%. 
This new efficiency results in 
faster transit times and greater 
environmental benefits due to 
decreased fuel usage andemissions. In addition, we are able 
to offer customers a higher level 
of reliability, predictability, and 
transparency than has ever been 
possible through rail, while meeting 
surges in customer demand and 
adapting with agility to unforeseen 
events and needs. 
In 2019, CSX became the first 
railroad to offer a Trip Plan 
Performance tool to customers, 
providing an unprecedented level 
of transparency into our service. 
Originally created as an internal 
measurement tool to support 
operations improvement, Trip Plan 
Performance tool now enables 
customers to see detailed
data on our delivery performance
for every carload, container and
trailer shipped on CSX. Each trip 
plan is an end-to-end customer 
commitment based on the original 
estimated time of notification of 
shipment arrival or the estimated 
time of interchange with another 
“Subaru has now added an additional railhead 
in Lordstown, Ohio, in order to improve 
our supply chain efficiency and reduce the 
environmental impact. The location of this new 
ramp will better serve our market due to its 
close proximity to the retailers in that area. This 
also results in reduced mileage and emissions 
for our truck carriers. CSX has always provided 
great service and as a result has had a long 
standing partnership with Subaru.” 
Subaru of America, Inc.
“CSX’s high level of on-time service, predictability, 
and dependability has helped Schneider compete 
with an ultra-competitive truck market. CSX’s on-
time service performance for the past year has 
been dependable, consistent, and reliable. This 
performance, combined with the benefits of an 
asset-based intermodal provider, gives shippers a 
true truck-like experience.” 
Schneider
carrier. A shipment’s trip plan is 
created based on train schedules, 
terminal handling standards, 
terminal hours of operation, and 
for Intermodal customers, the 
intermodal reservation system.
Sharing this information with our 
customers enables the Sales and 
Marketing team to have transparent 
conversations about service 
performance and routing decisions. 
Customer Experience24  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  25Raising the Bar on Rail Service
Carload Trip Plan Performance Intermodal Trip Plan PerformanceTerminal Car Dwell
(hours)Train Velocity 
(miles per hour)
Car Miles per Day Gallons of Fuel per kGTMCustomer Experience
1Q20
4Q19
3Q19
2Q19
1Q19
4Q18
3Q18
2Q18
1Q18
4Q17
3Q17
2Q17
1Q17 14.213.9
16.216.217.517.517.919.020.42021.321.2
.31Q20
4Q19
3Q19
2Q19
1Q19
4Q18
3Q18
2Q18
1Q18
4Q17
3Q17
2Q17
1Q17 11.412.0
10.710.610.39.68.99.28.58.98.48.3
8.7
2019 134
124 2018
100 1502019 1.01
1.05 2018
0.50 1.05 1.1
4Q19 3Q19 2Q19100
1Q1995
4Q1890
85
80
75
70
65
6067.3%73.9%74.4%75.7%82.6%
4Q19 3Q19 2Q19100
1Q1995
4Q1890
85
80
75
70
65
6073.4%78.3%89.9%94.2%95.5%20.0
0 50 0 1.00              5              10              15              20              25 0          2          4          6          8          10          12          1426  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  27TECHNOLOGY AND TOOLS
To provide the best possible 
experience for our customers, CSX 
continues to use and invest in 
multiple technologies to streamline 
supply chains and create more 
efficient modes of delivery. 
XGate, in addition to providing 
significant environmental benefits, 
has increased the pace of 
customer deliveries by scanning 
and inspecting containers in a 
fraction of the time it takes a team 
of workers to do so. 
Our ShipCSX platform allows
customers to plan, ship, trace,
and pay for shipments quickly
with secure data that is specific
to the customer. With ShipCSX’s 
reservation system, intermodal 
customers benefit from prioritized 
handling that provides improved 
shipment planning as well as 
enhanced terminal fluidity as 
assets are balanced network-wide.  
In 2019, CSX became the first 
North American railroad to join 
TradeLens, a global shipping 
information platform that provides customers with improved supply 
chain transparency and shipment-
status visibility. Using secure 
blockchain technology, TradeLens 
overcomes data processing silos 
to support collaboration across 
the supply chain and provide 
customers with timely updates.
CUSTOMER FEEDBACK AND 
ENGAGEMENT 
Our Sales, Marketing, and 
Customer Engagement teams 
all partner closely with the 
Operations team to ensure an 
excellent customer experience. 
Both the Sales and Marketing 
teams are aligned around 
commodities and end-market 
segments, all designed to support 
out-sized market growth. 
Our Customer Engagement team 
works directly with our Operations 
departments on a daily basis to 
resolve customer issues and is 
comprised of our E-Solutions, 
Customer Solutions, and Marketing 
Services functions, all of which 
support our internal and
external customers through thedevelopment of solutions, such 
as our industry leading ShipCSX 
platform.
 ›E-Solutions is delivering tools to 
transform Sales and Marketing 
core work as well as drive ease of 
doing business with CSX.   
 ›Customer Solutions and 
Supplemental teams are the 
conduit between Operations, 
Sales, and our customers to 
resolve service and demurrage 
concerns.  
  
 ›Marketing Services supports our 
core Marketing team in pricing, 
publishing, and billing work. 
We host customer-engagement 
forums twice a year, bringing 
together customers and CSX leaders 
for constructive discussions about 
customers’ business needs and how 
CSX can meet them. Through this 
dialogue, we share information about 
the latest service enhancements 
and network adjustments, as well as 
discuss new ways for CSX to be an 
optimal supply chain partner. OPERATIONS SUPPORT 
The CSX Operations team plays a 
critical role in delivering excellent 
customer service. By designing 
optimal routes that maximize 
both efficiency and reliability, we 
are able to meet or exceed our 
customers’ needs. The customer-
facing Trip Plan Performance (TPP) 
tool drives accountability as it 
tracks and measures our service 
performance on a lane-by-lane 
basis. Through close partnerships 
with Sales and Marketing, the 
Operations team continually 
improves service for existing 
customers while allowing for new 
service products that enable 
incremental growth. 
The Customer Solutions team also
works hand in hand with Operations
to ensure customer feedback is
being heeded at the corporate
level and throughout the field. The 
Operations team supports customer 
service in a variety of ways, 
including:
 ›Monitoring service performance 
via Trip Plan  
 ›Providing action plans to 
the Customer Solutions and 
Commercial teams to serve 
customer needs  
 ›Adjusting serving days, times, and 
capacities to align with customer 
needs  
 ›Participating in daily network 
operations meetings to discuss 
any customer feedback received  
 
 
“CSXT has been the pioneer when it comes to 
enhancing their web tools as it compares to 
our other Class 1 carriers. They are providing 
better visibility to our shipments and allowing us 
more insight to their transit performance. This is 
helping not only Cargill but our customers.”
Cargill“Scheduled railroading has allowed Cameron 
and its customers to avoid extra investment 
in facilities and handle the increasing volumes 
through responsive alterations to days and 
frequency of service.” 
Cameron Ag Products 
Customer Experience28  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  29
ENABLING GROWTH AND SUSTAINABILITY
Partnering for Growth
By partnering with customers to design innovative 
supply chain solutions and providing new services, 
CSX is generating opportunities that enable growth 
and innovation across our network and beyond. The 
following are examples of key initiatives:
 ›TRANSFLO  
CSX TRANSFLO helps customers take advantage 
of the economic and environmental benefits of rail 
without having rail infrastructure at their facility. At 
each of the 40-plus TRANSFLO transloading terminals, bulk products are safely transferred between railcars 
and trucks, giving customers flexibility to access new 
markets and suppliers. TRANSFLO has experience 
with more than 300 different products, including 
chemicals, crude oil, dry bulk, ethanol, food–grade 
products, plastics, and waste materials.
 ›CSX Select Sites  
CSX Select Sites are development-ready properties 
ideal for industrial development and expansion. 
These sites have been independently certified by 
The Austin Company and are prime locations for 
rail-served industrial customers who are looking to 
purchase a property with lower upfront development 
risk and faster speed to market.  ›Carolina Connector (CCX) 
CSX is expanding into eastern North Carolina with the 
construction of a new intermodal terminal in Rocky 
Mount. Strategically located on the CSX network and 
near the major consumption market in the Triangle 
Region, the Carolina Connector terminal will provide 
regional industries with convenient access to rail, 
helping connect products to consumers nationwide.  
 
CSX Intermodal Terminals (CSXIT) is a leader in 
technologically advanced and environmentally 
friendly intermodal rail terminals. The Carolina 
Connector terminal will feature three wide-span, zero 
emission electric cranes with an annual lift capacity 
of 110,000 containers. The majority of container 
handling will be completely automatic with operators 
remotely controlling the initial lift and final placement 
from inside the terminal building.  
 
Construction on the new facility is expected to be 
completed by early 2021. 
 ›Northwest Ohio Investments  
CSX’s Northwest Ohio intermodal terminal in North 
Baltimore, Ohio is a state-of-the-art facility with 
leading-edge equipment and technology. The 
terminal’s centerpieces are seven zero-emission 
and nearly silent wide-span electric cranes. Each 
crane has a 46-ton capacity, allowing ultra-efficient 
container movement from train to truck and truck to 
train. Together crane, gate and terminal operating 
system technology maximize efficiency and create a 
driver experience that reduces turn time.  
 
To capture growth in the region and provide supply 
chain solutions for shippers, CSX partnered with 
NorthPoint Development on a scalable, phased 
logistics park to be built adjacent to the Northwest 
Ohio terminal. With access to over 500 acres, the 
logistics park will provide value-added services 
for shippers, offering opportunities to reduce 
transportation costs and augment distribution 
footprints by moving goods from train to truck to 
warehouse all at one location. Construction on the 
logistics park is currently underway.  
 
In addition to traditional warehousing and distribution 
capabilities created by the logistics park, the 
Northwest Ohio growth initiative comes with an enhanced intermodal service offering. CSX added 
a premium service between Los Angeles and 
Northwest Ohio as well as expanded service to East 
Coast ports, strengthening CSX’s commitment to 
sustainable growth for the future.
 ›Inland Ports  
Inland ports are intermodal facilities that alleviate 
truck congestion in high-traffic port areas by 
connecting directly to marine terminals via rail. 
CSX currently connects to three inland ports  — in 
northwest Georgia, northeastern South Carolina, and 
Syracuse, New York — that offer shippers a strategic 
alternative to trucking in reaching key markets. These 
terminals, developed by states and port authorities 
on the CSX system, take advantage of the efficiency 
of rail and provide importers and exporters with an 
efficient transportation solution that works within the 
global supply chain while helping to reduce each 
shipment’s carbon footprint.  
 
Inland port service also taps directly into CSX’s focus 
on increasing intermodal capacity, expanding reach 
into new markets and providing superior supply chain 
solutions for our customers.  
 
These inland terminals not only generate economic 
opportunities in the regions they serve, but also 
convert freight from highway to rail. CSX is dedicated 
to helping intermodal customers find new ways to 
convert more freight to achieve socially responsible 
outcomes. Every container that converts to rail 
advances a shipper’s interest in reducing their carbon 
footprint, minimizing their impact on the environment 
and creating a greener, more efficient supply chain.Customer ExperienceCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  31 30  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance ReportDriving Local Economic 
Opportunities 
Throughout our 23-state network, 
we contribute to the wealth and 
prosperity of the local communities 
where we operate by driving 
economic value and opportunities. 
Alabama 
Connecticut 
Delaware 
District of 
Columbia 
Florida 
Georgia 
Illinois 
Indiana 
Kentucky 
Louisiana 
Maryland 
Massachusetts 
Michigan 
Mississippi 
New Jersey 
New York 
North Carolina 
Ohio 
Pennsylvania 
South Carolina 
Tennessee 
Virginia 
West Virginia 853
2
41
21
3,274
1,803
502
966
1,100
90
818
200
301
32
92
1,426
605
2,056
582
536
954
665
877$98,029,561 
$1,414,661 
$5,218,725 
$4,578,000 
$559,261,430 
$194,886,658 
$50,524,361 
$136,901,689 
$152,128,879 
$6,558,856 
$82,360,622 
$16,300,984 
$32,842,258 
$7,492,237 
$12,886,350 
$158,858,693 
$74,442,454 
$209,008,320 
$68,062,921 
$74,193,785 
$122,469,533 
$79,532,476 
$97,540,833 $89,780,633 
$31,000 
$871,000 
$26,662,000 
$179,819,583 
$210,276,810 
$58,662,121 
$85,752,367 
$61,933,337 
$29,408,000 
$55,299,511 
$15,382,126 
$29,173,105 
$8,821,000 
$16,585,478 
$75,539,073 
$71,175,982 
$131,310,551 
$50,422,305 
$71,093,791 
$104,267,731 
$51,691,015 
$53,026,000 1,472 
221 
129 
71 
2,465 
2,645 
1,189 
2,527 
2,870 
136 
1,364 
657 
1,142 
130 
994 
2,777 
1,752 
4,010 
2,019 
1,792 
1,547 
2,018 
1,991 System Capital  
InvestmentsWith our infrastructure capital 
expenditures and community 
investments, CSX creates jobs, 
supports economic growth, and 
builds better communities across 
our value chain.
* Does not include employees of subsidiary companies, # of employees who don’t have long-term state assignment but report 
into various locations as assigned, and those assigned to locations outside the above listed states 
** Including yard, sidings, and mainline trackCustomer Experience
Track Miles** Annual Payroll Employees* State32  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  33
Safety
OUR APPROACH  
Every employee at CSX is part of the Safety team – 
regardless of title, job responsibilities, or geographic 
location. We foster a culture of learning and take a 
network approach to safety, with a goal of together 
identifying best practices to eliminate risk and sharing 
those practices across the system. We take a preventive 
approach, working to proactively limit any risk to our 
employees or anyone in the vicinity of our rail network. 
When an incident does occur, whether minor or 
significant, we actively look for opportunities to remove 
or reduce the risk associated with the incident.  
 
Following the appointment of a new chief safety officer 
in 2018, we strengthened our safety organization and 
added comprehensive measures to fortify our safety 
culture. We also solidified our Operational Training, 
Operating Practice and Rules, and Field Safety groups 
by appointing new leaders tasked with identifying gaps 
and making improvements in their respective areas. 
Train Accident Prevention and Train Handling added 
field positions focused on engineer certification and 
main line train performance.   
 Our Approach 
Transforming Our Safety Approach 
Safety Performance  
Physical Protection and Security 
Hazard Management and Emergency Preparedness 
Customer Collaboration 
Community Safety “Nothing is more important to 
CSX than the safety of our 
employees, our customers, 
and the communities where we 
operate. We wake up thinking 
about safety, we start every 
gathering with a safety briefing, 
and we integrate safety 
guidelines and best practices 
into every moment of the day. 
Successfully managing safety 
is the bedrock of the success 
of our business.” 
We additionally established an Executive Safety Council 
to increase leadership engagement and involvement 
in CSX’s system-wide safety plan. The Council also 
oversees Regional Safety Councils in each field region 
to promote knowledge-sharing and ensure alignment to 
the overall safety plan.   
We uphold our safety culture through effective 
management systems; ongoing training; robust 
hazard management and emergency preparedness and 
response mechanisms; and continuous collaboration 
and communication with employees, customers, 
suppliers, communities, and industry peers.  
Every day we track practices and procedures through 
our Public Safety, Health, and Environment (PSH&E) 
Management System, which is regularly updated under 
the requirements of the American Chemistry Council’s 
Responsible Care Management System and informed 
by ISO 14001. In 2019, we completed a full system 
audit and achieved Responsible Care Management 
System recertification.  
 James Schwichtenberg
Vice President and  
Chief Safety Officer
34  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  35
TRANSFORMING OUR SAFETY APPROACH 
Clean Sweeps
Safety is everyone’s responsibility. Throughout our 
network, CSX employees have gathered periodically 
to perform informal “Clean Sweeps” at their worksites 
– making sure their spaces are neat and orderly. 
Clean Sweeps can include organizing amenities 
and materials, repainting walkways and parking lots, 
enabling recycling, and more. With great benefits 
for safety, environmental sustainability, and on-site 
employee culture, Clean Sweeps became a strategic 
corporate initiative in 2019. More than 700 employees, 
representing all CSX departments, conducted Clean 
Sweeps at 15 locations across the network last year, 
creating healthier and safer work environments for all. Comprehensive Assessment
In 2018, we completed a large-scale safety 
and culture assessment with a third-
party research group to identify areas for 
improvement. More than 60% of CSX 
employees participated in the employee 
survey portion of the assessment. Employee 
feedback emphasized the importance of 
strong leadership, frequent and transparent 
communication, and the proper upkeep of 
work environments.Training
We updated our training programs to 
improve employee and community safety 
knowledge. All employees are required 
to complete the full updated training 
curriculum.  
Leadership
In 2018, we hired a recognized industry 
professional as our new chief safety officer, 
James Schwichtenberg, to revitalize the 
CSX safety approach. Bringing more than 
20 years of railroad experience, including 
15 years leading rail safety and regulatory 
initiatives, Schwichtenberg dove into an 
analysis of safety performance data and 
procedures and, based on his findings, led a 
full redesign of the CSX safety strategy.  Innovation and Technology
We significantly invested in new safety 
technologies, including autonomous 
track assessment cars, which automate 
issue detection and significantly reduce 
train accidents; drones, which give more 
complete visual data for operational testing; 
and Train Inspection Portals, an automated 
system that produces 360-degree scans of 
railcars passing through the portal at track 
speed.Active Communication
We made efforts to improve communications 
with and between our Operations and Safety 
teams and began monthly meetings with 
operations and Executive team members 
to discuss ongoing safety performance and 
improvements and increase leadership’s 
visibility into safety operations. At the field 
level, we gave supervisors localized, data-
driven safety plans, complete with detailed 
information on how to handle specific 
situations. Looking ahead, we will continue 
to administer regular culture and safety 
surveys to gather employee feedback in 
creating best practices for continuous safety 
improvements on the front lines.
Employee Compensation
In 2019, we made an important move to tie 
safety performance to employee bonuses. 
Ten percent of employee bonus potential is 
now dependent on CSX’s attainment of key 
safety targets. Safety
 2019 2018 2017 2016
Money invested in 
infrastructure$1.3B $1.3B $1.3B $1.15B
Total capital 
spending$1.7B $1.7B $2.0B $2.7B
New ties installed 3.02M 2.66M 2.58M 2.76M 
New rail installed 996 linear 
miles866 linear 
miles914 linear 
miles874 linear 
miles
Surfacing 4,712 miles 4,408 miles 4,098 miles 4,591 milesSafety was a major pillar of the transformation and since 2017, 
we have made significant advancements in our safety approach.  Also in 2019, we invested $1.3 
billion out of a total of $1.7 
billion capital spending in critical 
infrastructure to maintain our safety 
standards, including installing nearly 
3 million new ties and nearly 1,000 
linear miles of new rail, as well as 
surfacing more than 4,700 miles  
of track.
“Clean Sweep is an important way to support 
safety. All the material we pick up prevents 
slips, trips, and falls. It also raises the morale 
of employees when they see coworkers from 
across the network coming together as a team to 
enhance the work environment for the men and 
women who walk these rocks every day.”
Rob Garofolo
Superintendent, Northeast Region, Northern Zone“Clean Sweep supports our safety 
initiatives by really taking things to the 
next level – getting things out of the 
way of harm and off the ground.” 
Asher Lohman
Sr. Technical Director, CSX TechnologyCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  37 36  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance ReportSAFETY PERFORMANCE  
CSX had fewer train accidents in 2019 than in any 
other year in the history of the company, with safety 
metrics improving quarter over quarter. We were also 
proud to lead Class I railroads with an FRA personal 
injury rate of 0.89 in 2019 — a 14% decrease from 
2018. 
 
While we are proud of our progress, we will not be 
satisfied until we have achieved zero accidents and 
injuries. In 2019, we suffered two fatalities on our rail 
lines, which were the result of two separate incidents. 
Both were thoroughly investigated to determine the 
cause and identify any changes that should be made 
to prevent tragic incidents in the future. 
 
We are committed to continuous safety improvements 
and remain focused on reducing risks across our rail 
network. 
PHYSICAL PROTECTION AND SECURITY 
CSX takes the protection of its physical and 
operational assets seriously. We serve as a primary 
mode of transport for the goods that businesses 
and consumers use every day. Security is therefore 
essential to our operations. We also share sections 
of tracks with passenger trains and maintain secure 
infrastructure for these trains and passengers. 
 
The CSX Infrastructure Protection team works to 
guarantee the safety and security of the rails, yards, 
bridges and tunnels, as well as fuel centers, aviation 
divisions, and corporate buildings. Additionally, CSX 
employs its own police force of special agents charged 
with the protection of our personnel and property. 
The force works across our 23-state footprint and 
maintains close relationships with local and state law 
enforcement. 
 
CSX’s approach to addressing physical security risks 
is two-fold: We conduct regular assessments involving 
a variety of up-to-date scenarios, and we use the latest 
tools and technology to support our activities.   
 Assessment Testing 
Regular assessment testing is a central practice of the 
CSX Infrastructure Protection team. Each year, CSX 
participates in a comprehensive industry risk assessment, 
or Threat Risk Assessment, in conjunction with the 
Association of American Railroads (AAR) Rail Security 
Working Committee. CSX also conducts an annual 
terrorism- focused stress test, which includes terrorist 
threats as well as other physical security threats. 
 
The CSX Infrastructure Protection team complies with, 
and is trained in, relevant business continuity and 
pandemic response regulations and exercises set forth by 
the FRA and the Transportation Security Administration 
(TSA). All scenario-based tests are designed from real-life 
situations gathered from the FRA, TSA, and the AAR Rail 
Security Working Group. 
 
The team also performs physical assessments in 
response to any issues raised by local teams. In 2019, 
CSX experienced an unusual number of break- ins at our 
car distribution centers and our special agents performed 
evaluations of these incidents. The evaluations identified 
ways to increase security at each facility and provided 
guidance to local management for implementation of new 
security measures. In 2018, CSX appointed 22-year industry veteran 
James Schwichtenberg as chief safety officer. Upon 
his arrival, Schwichtenberg’s first step was to analyze 
historic incident data to understand trends and key 
problem areas. In studying the data, Schwichtenberg 
and team identified the need for a renewed focus on 
rule compliance and on eradicating the underlying 
actions statistically most likely to lead to an incident   
or injury. Schwichtenberg and his team, armed 
with the findings of the data study, issued a new 
operating rules manual and trained management and 
union employees on the rules and the importance of 
A New Chapter in 
Safety: A Proactive, 
Risk Based 
Approach  following them diligently. CSX also worked with the 
FRA to create a new operational testing program to 
help drive an even higher level of safety compliance. 
 
As a result of this effort, CSX was able to evolve its 
approach to safety incidents and shift from a reactive 
approach to a proactive approach, minimizing the 
risks most likely to cause incidents. In 2019, CSX had 
fewer train accidents than any year in the history of the 
company, with train accident rate improving quarter 
over quarter from Q4 2018 to Q4 2019. 
 
For his efforts, Schwichtenberg was selected by 
Progressive Railroading to be one of 25 individuals 
recognized as a 2019 Rising Star of the North 
American rail industry. 
 
“At CSX, there’s a family-like emphasis on protecting 
one another. For us, safety is important because 
it can be literally life changing in this industry,” 
Schwichtenberg said. 
Safety
2019 2018 2017 20161.30
1.20
1.10
1.00
0.90
0.80+12%+17%
-16%
-14%1.05
1.23
1.04
.89FRA Personal Injury Rate1
1
2019 2018 2017 20164.00
3.50
3.00
2.50
2.00
1.50+8%+9%+17%
-36%2.82
3.11
3.66
2.32FRA Tr ain Accident Rat e2
2  Safety statistics are estimated and continue to be updated as actuals settle.FRA Personal Injury Rate calculated as cases/200,000 employee hours.
FRA Train Accident Rate tracks FRA reportable train accidents per million 
train miles. Safety statistics are estimated and continue to be updated as 
actuals settle.38  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  39Tools and Technology 
A high-performing safety 
organization requires diligence on 
the part of every employee, but 
it also requires the application of 
cutting-edge technology. We have 
vastly upgraded our use of
technology over the past few years
and we have seen the results in 
our safety performance. We view 
the continued implementation 
of new tools and technologies 
as a key component of further 
improving the safety and efficiency 
of our operations going forward. 
The following are some of the 
technologies we use to optimize 
our safety performance.  
Positive Train Control  
Positive Train Control (PTC) is 
an advanced nationwide system 
of technologies designed to 
automatically stop a train before 
certain incidents occur. To 
work properly, PTC needs to 
function seamlessly within and 
between railroads. In 2019, CSX 
achieved 100% operability on the 
designated subdivisions on our 
network. CSX is also interoperable 
with every Class I railroad, with 
the exception of Canadian Pacific. 
We plan to achieve interoperability 
with Canadian Pacific in July 
2020. In addition to the Class I 
railroads, CSX is interoperable with other railroads, including the Belt 
Railway of Chicago, Metra, Conrail, 
Amtrak, South Florida Regional 
Transportation Authority (Tri-Rail), 
Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway, 
KWT Railway and Virginia Railway 
Express. 
 
Every day, CSX averages 98.6% 
of trains operating with PTC 
in territory equipped with the 
technology, with an overall 
enforcement rate of 0.8%. 
Significant upgrades were made to 
the PTC system in 2019, resulting 
in improvements to both safety 
and efficiency. For example, 
engineer revocations were down to 56 for 2019, a decrease from 
96 in 2018. As the system grows 
and additional improvements are 
made, we expect PTC will yield 
even further safety improvements. 
 
Inward Facing Camera and  
Cell Detection Technology 
Inward facing camera and cell 
detection technology allows 
CSX to streamline the detection 
and dissemination of safety 
alerts by taking the locomotive 
diagnostic information and 
remotely transmitting alerts to 
CSX personnel when it senses 
problems outside of CSX 
operating and safety parameters. 
 
In 2019, nearly 400 Locomotive 
Data Acquisition and Recording 
Systems (LDARS), which combine 
event recorder, PTC and video 
data into one location, were 
installed on CSX locomotives. 
 
Issues such as cell phone usage 
on a moving train, engineer-
initiated emergency brake 
applications, PTC enforcements, 
and severe train slack are just a 
few examples of alerts the system 
recognizes and flags. Once an 
alert is received, it is thoroughly 
reviewed by Safety Department 
employees who coordinate with local field officers to address any 
risky behavior or unsafe actions.  
 
The Safety Department 
additionally uses this technology 
to randomly audit train crews 
for compliance even when no 
alerts are received. The system 
also provides a remote, real- 
time solution for retrieving event 
recorder and video downloads. In 
2019, CSX performed more than 
300 audits helping to ensure crew 
compliance with CSX rules and 
policies. 
Drones 
In 2019, CSX launched an 
unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV 
or drone) program to enhance 
federally mandated operational 
testing and observations. As part 
of the program, we designated 
drones to each region with trained 
and qualified pilots using Federal 
Aviation Administration guidelines. 
 
Drones provide better visual data 
through their ability to capture 
views from between rail tracks 
and deeper into railyards than 
was previously possible. The data 
enable more thorough operational 
testing and more detailed 
employee training and education. 
Following successful testing in 2019, we have deployed 44 
drones across the CSX system. 
Asset Monitoring and  
Detection Technology  
CSX uses sensing cameras 
and access controls to monitor 
access to its properties and 
assets, including an upgraded 
badge access system installed 
in early 2020. Technology 
platforms used include the 
Security Countermeasure System 
(SCMS), which maps out each 
company location, the critical 
assets onsite and the employee 
assigned to the asset, and then 
assigns countermeasures. In 
emergency situations where the 
security plan is invoked, SCMS 
can raise security alerts to CSX 
management. The Crisis Alert 
Response System (CARS) is also 
used to measure and assess 
environmental risks (such as 
weather threats and hazardous 
material plumes) and project the 
expected impact on a community. 
To communicate with all employees 
by email, phone, and text in a 
matter of seconds, CSX uses the 
MIR3 communication platform. 
Safety
One of the most important additions to our technology 
in the past several years has been autonomous track 
assessment cars (ATAC). After successfully deploying 
three cars between 2018 and 2019, we plan to add an 
additional two in 2020, covering 55% of our core main 
line track miles, totaling 300,000 miles of coverage.  
 
These cars and their data collection 
capabilities, enabled by advanced 
optical and laser sensors, have  
already been instrumental in  
reducing accidents. 
With the success of proof of concept, the CSX ATAC 
pilot program was approved by the FRA in March 
2020, and cars will be running two routes in intermodal 
commercial service with the goal of reducing track 
exceptions per mile by 12% by October 2020. Autonomous Track 
Assessment Cars 40  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  41
Train Inspection Portal: Seeing 
Every Angle of Safety 
CSX trains are inspected for safety 
on both inbound and outbound 
trips. This process typically takes 
one-and-a-half to two hours and 
involves two or more carmen 
walking the length of the stopped 
train searching for loose bolts, 
wheel wear, or other safety 
hazards. Even with these thorough 
manual inspections, identifying 
defects on top and beneath freight 
cars manually can be a challenge.
CSX’s new Train Inspection Portal 
(TIP) — introduced in December 
2019 just outside of Waycross, 
Georgia where train traffic is 
the densest — was created to 
increase inspection efficiency and 
efficacy. Designed as an open 
“gate” over the train track, the 
portal has 17 ultra-high definition 
cameras capturing 360-degree 
scans of passing trains at track 
speed. The captured images 
are processed through multiple 
algorithms in just two minutes, 
giving inspectors at a central 
location the ability to review 
all angles of trains, valuably 
supplementing information 
received from manual inspections.  
The TIP has the potential to 
reduce the time a train spends 
at each inspection location by 
almost 97%. The system reduces 
human error and protects our 
carmen from safety hazards 
during inspection while building a 
database of images to be used for 
further innovation.  
Given the success of TIP to date, 
we are adding one more portal to 
our network in 2020. We are also 
17 ultra-high definition cameras 
scan trains at rail speed.upgrading TIP, enabling even faster 
and more thorough detection of 
safety hazards and abnormalities. 
We are additionally exploring the 
possibilities of adding thermal 
imaging or heat sensor technology 
to identify when a component may 
be in distress. 
We are continuing to work with 
our partners to identify new ways 
to apply technology to advance 
employee and community safety. 
We see promise in increasing 
automation of other routine 
inspections to be able to provide 
more and better data to our 
maintenance personnel, allowing 
them to make real-time decisions 
on asset health.
HAZARD MANAGEMENT AND 
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
CSX works closely with our 
employees, customers, regulators, 
and suppliers to deliver and handle 
chemicals and hazardous materials 
safely, reliably, and with care. 
 
Our approach to hazardous 
materials transportation relies 
on company-wide preparedness 
using the principles of a 3R 
methodology – recognize, record 
and report. We have robust 
guidelines, protocols, and training 
in place to ensure the safe 
handling of hazardous materials. 
This includes how to respond 
to hazardous material incidents 
as well as non-hazmat events, 
such as those related to the 
transportation of food ingredients.
 
The 3R approach is taught in 
annual employee training as 
well as in onboarding training for all new employees. Training 
includes online and in-person 
instruction and is tailored to 
the needs of each locality. The 
approach covers how and to 
whom to report hazards and 
emergency events and is based 
on regulatory requirements, 
including how to conduct package 
inspections specified in FRA 
and AAR standards M-1002 
Technical Approval Requirements 
and M-1003 Quality Assurance 
Program Requirements. The 3R 
approach is also codified in our 
security policy and operating 
manual. 
 
CSX contractors also participate in 
3R classroom training programs. 
By the end of 2019, more than 
75% of our contractors had 
completed training, and we are 
working toward achieving 100% 
trained. 
 
CSX is committed to increasing 
public transparency around the 
safe movement of hazardous 
materials on the company’s 
network, balancing publicly 
available information with the 
ongoing need to protect rail 
security and customer proprietary 
information. We regularly update 
our website with the types of 
commodities we transport. 
For detailed information on 
the hazardous commodities 
classifications and transportation 
materials by state, visit our 
Hazardous Materials webpage. Safety42  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  43
First Responder Engagement and Training 
In the event of a rail emergency, quick and decisive 
action by first responders is critical. CSX works in 
close partnership with first responders throughout 
our network to provide them with the necessary 
information, training, and coordination of resources to 
respond effectively in an incident or emergency.  
 
 ›Training  
One of the primary ways CSX provides training to 
first responders is through the CSX Safety Train 
Classroom, a rolling classroom railcar that visits 
communities across the network to share incident 
response expertise with local first responders. In 
2019, through a partnership with 40 fire departments, 
we provided training at the Annual Hazmat 
Conference in Yorktown, Virginia, reaching first 
responders as well as federal regulators from across 
the country. ›Communication and Coordination   
The CSX Public Safety Coordination Center (PSCC) 
is our communications hub for coordinating with first 
responders and dispatchers 24 hours a day. Anyone 
can report railroad incidents by calling the PSCC to 
provide information on blocked crossings, crossing 
collisions, signal problems, materials released, theft, 
vandalism, or trespassing. The PSCC engages 
directly with local authorities and CSX internal 
resources to address issues promptly.  
 
To increase communication and coordination further 
with the first responder community, CSX joined 
AskRail in 2019. A collaborative effort between 
railroads and the emergency response community, 
AskRail is a mobile app that provides more than 
25,000 first responders with immediate access to 
accurate, timely data about what type of hazardous 
materials a railcar is carrying so they can make an 
informed decision about how to respond to a rail 
emergency. 
Employees at CSX’s Public Safety Coordination Center 
work around the clock to address safety concerns.Safety
44  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  45
CUSTOMER COLLABORATION 
Strong partnerships with customers are essential 
to optimizing safety performance. Many of our 
customers own their own rail tracks and we are 
dedicated to helping them learn and apply our 
proven best practices for maintaining rail equipment. 
The CSX Safety team regularly provides customers 
with updated safety information through one-on-
one outreach, brochures, and our Customer Safety 
website. We also recognize customers for high levels 
of safety performance regarding the transportation 
of hazardous materials through our annual Chemical 
Safety Excellence Awards. In 2019, 70 CSX customers 
earned this recognition.  
COMMUNITY SAFETY 
The CSX commitment to safety extends beyond our 
employees and facilities into the communities served 
by our rail network. We are committed to educating 
citizens — and particularly children — about the 
importance of staying away from railroad tracks and 
practicing safe behaviors at railroad crossings. 
We have a multi-year partnership with Operation 
Lifesaver , an education and awareness organization 
committed to ending collisions, fatalities, and injuries 
at highway-rail grade crossings and along railroad 
rights-of-way.  
Each year, we work with Operation Lifesaver to 
conduct free rail-safety education programming for 
schoolchildren, community organizations, driver’s 
education students, and professional truck and bus 
drivers. We also partner with Operation Lifesaver to 
provide specialized training for the law enforcement 
officers who investigate highway-rail grade crossing 
collisions, as well as first responders to help them 
apply personal safety practices when responding to a 
rail incident. 
In addition to our work with Operation Lifesaver, 
CSX actively participates in Rail Safety Week, held 
in 2019 from September 23 to 29. During the week, 
CSX conducted 50 awareness activities, including 
trespassing and traffic enforcement blitzes, school and 
community presentations, and truck driver outreach. In 2019:
3,353
received Hazardous 
Material Training 
287
Operation Lifesaver 
activities undertaken
27,944
community members 
reached through  
these activities
CSX employees engaged thousands of school 
children during the 2019 Rail Safety WeekEmployees educated motorists at a busy 
crossing about safe driving practicesEmployees distribute safety 
materials to driversSafetyCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  47
 46  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Environment
Our Approach
Progress Toward 2020 Goals
Compliance
Climate Change
Energy Performance 
Recycling, Reuse, and Waste Disposal
Water Management
OUR APPROACH 
Environmental sustainability is at the core of CSX’s 
value proposition. As the most fuel-efficient mode of 
freight transportation on land, rail continues to enable 
significant emission reductions for customers, while 
driving economic prosperity. That’s why we’re actively 
working to innovate our approach and drive efficiencies, 
while setting unprecedented goals and pursuing 
opportunities for continued improvement as part of our 
commitment to sustainable business practices.
On average, trains are three to four times more fuel- 
efficient than trucks, giving trains the potential to lower 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 75%. At CSX, 
we take this advantage as a baseline and are always 
looking for and applying new ways to empower our 
customers to achieve greater environmental savings. 
As a result of our new operating model, we have 
continued to improve our environmental footprint. In 
2019, CSX became the first U.S. Class I railroad to
operate at a fuel efficiency rate of less than one gallon 
of fuel per thousand gross ton miles for a quarter.To minimize our environmental impact, we work across 
the organization to thoughtfully manage energy,
waste, water, and air emissions.
Our Environmental team works closely to track, 
monitor, and communicate environmental management 
and compliance strategies across the organization 
using the Public Safety, Health, and Environment 
(PSH&E) Management System.  We use the PSH&E 
Management System to drive a culture of environmental 
impact minimization throughout our organization. The 
system incorporates major elements of ISO 14001, 
the Environmental Protection Agency’s Compliance-
Focused Environmental Management System, and 
other industry-specific standards. In 2019, it underwent 
a full system audit which resulted in certification of 
compliance with the American Chemistry Council’s 
Responsible Care Management System. 
Additional details on our environmental management 
approach, including our Environmental Policy, can be 
found on our Environment & Efficiency page. 48  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  49Goal Status 2019 Progress
Reduce GHG emissions intensity by 
6-8%ACHIEVED This goal was achieved in 2018, and emissions 
intensity in 2019 was 10.8% below 2012 levels.  
We anticipate 2020 emissions intensity will be 
lower still. 
Increase energy blend to 10% 
renewable sources NOT ACHIEVED CSX continues to invest in on-site renewable 
energy for assets and facilities, where it makes the 
most sense. We are investigating multiple avenues 
for increasing our renewable portfolio in the future.
Reduce hazardous waste generator 
status by 25%NEARL Y ACHIEVED By the end of 2019, we decreased our hazardous 
waste by 21% and are on track to achieve a 25% 
reduction by the end of 2020.
Decrease asphalt, concrete, and 
brick to landfill to zeroNEARL Y ACHIEVED We successfully decreased our concrete and brick 
to landfill to zero. 7% of asphalt generated in 2019 
went to landfill, but we are on track to get to zero 
by the end of the year.
Reduce quantity of water consumed ACHIEVED We successfully reduced our water consumption 
by 60%. 
Improve the quality of effluent water ACHIEVED CSX reduced the number of environmental 
deviations pertinent to the Clean Water Act by 
nearly 37%.
Continue to elevate sustainable 
standards of constructionACHIEVED CSX has built several LEED certified buildings in 
recent years and is also making the best use of 
existing buildings. There have been significant 
lighting retrofits in car shops, office buildings, and 
throughout railyards – improving the quality of light 
and reducing the energy required. 
Encourage employees to take 
sustainable actions in their everyday 
jobs, such as conserving energy, 
reducing waste, and identifying 
efficiencies ACHIEVED As part of CSX’s transformation, we have reduced 
the footprint and number of buildings where we 
operate, while continuing to identify ways to create 
new efficiencies.Environment
PROGRESS TOWARD 2020 GOALS 
In 2012, we set a series of environmental goals to 
achieve by the end of 2020, most of which we have 
reached or are on track to achieving. 
 
While we continue to work toward our 2020 
objectives, we are also working to set new 
environmental goals to guide our strategy through 
2030. In this process, we will continue to build on our
success in moving more freight with less asset 
intensity and reducing fuel consumption to
“Setting a science-based target is one of the 
most ambitious actions a company can take 
to fight the climate crisis. We congratulate 
CSX for demonstrating its commitment to 
strong emissions reductions, and for being 
the first railroad in North America to have 
a target this ambitious approved. We look 
forward to seeing other railroad companies 
follow their example, which is crucial for 
achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement.”
Bruno Sarda
President of CDP North Americaoptimize our customers’ and our own environmental 
footprint. Also, as part of this process, we are
looking to set an internal price on carbon within  
the next two years.
COMPLIANCE
The Environmental Operations team prioritizes, and 
consistently achieves, compliance with local and 
federal regulations. We are constantly working to find 
new methods, technologies, and training opportunities 
to better enable us to meet and exceed regulatory 
standards.
 
In 2019, we underwent nearly 100 internal reviews of 
our facilities to ensure compliance with local, state, 
and federal regulations, including more than 40 Clean 
Air Act and 155 Clean Water Act permits system-wide. 
CSX implements a review program that includes self-
review, peer-review, and third-party reviews conducted 
by consultants using a complete multi-media protocol. 
Findings and corrective actions from these reviews are 
tracked in an electronic management system. Complete 
risk profiles of every facility are conducted annually. The 
electronic management system helps determine review 
frequency for large and small facilities.
Taking Charge to Reduce Emissions  
In April 2019, the Association of American Railroads 
(AAR) awarded CSX’s Gary Van Tassel, director of 
operations planning, the John H. Chafee Environmental 
Excellence Award. The award recognized Van Tassel’s 
role in the development and implementation of XGate 
— a revolutionary new system that reduces potential 
emissions at intermodal terminals by up to 90%. 
XGate is an automated, drive-through system that 
scans and inspects containers for damage in a fraction 
of the time it takes a team of workers to do so. The 
accompanying mobile app also allows drivers to 
pre-plan terminal stops, enabling CSX to configure 
containers for optimal loading and unloading. This 
system minimizes emissions by significantly reducing 
truck idle time, reduces human labor, and cuts 
customer wait time from minutes to just seconds. XGate has played a significant role in our ability to 
reduce our emissions — and will continue to help us 
make reductions in the future. The reduction in human 
interaction enabled by XGate has also helped decrease 
employee risk from health and safety hazards, most 
recently from the coronavirus pandemic. CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  51
 50  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance ReportEnvironment
1.0gallon/  
kGTM508miles
Distance moved for one 
ton of freight on a single 
gallon of fuel; a 7% 
increase from 474 miles 
in 2016
First U.S. Class I 
railroad to cross this fuel 
efficiency milestoneLocomotives by Type
2016
3,880
311
209
4,400Year
Freight
Switching
Auxiliary
Total2017
3,659
299
208
4,1662018
3,440
254
204
3,8982019
3,162
220
179
3,561CLIMATE CHANGE
CSX understands that we have an 
important role to play in addressing 
the complex global challenge of 
climate change. We are working 
to be part of the solution for our 
communities, employees, and 
stakeholders. That is why we set 
the most aggressive greenhouse 
gas reduction target among the 
Class 1 railroads. 
In 2019, we partnered with the 
Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi), an organization dedicated 
to supporting commitments that 
are consistent with the goal of 
limiting global warming to well-
below 2°C above pre-industrial 
levels. Through this partnership, 
CSX has made an ambitious 
new commitment to reduce GHG 
intensity emissions by 37.3% by 
2030, using 2014 as our baseline. 
CSX is the first railroad in the 
U.S. to align with SBTi. As part of 
our commitment, we are working 
to identify and implement new 
technologies, including enhanced 
automatic control improvements 
for the trip optimizer infrastructure 
with plans to install the technology 
on approximately 2,100 
locomotives to reduce Scope 1 
emissions. We are also considering 
expanded use of compressed 
natural gas — a cleaner option 
than diesel. 
 
Continued Investment
Between 2017 and 2019, as 
part of the transformation, CSX 
invested a total of $24 million into 
fuel efficiency measures, including 
increasing automation and 
streamlining locomotive use. 
As a result, CSX recorded its Tracking our GHG Intensity Emission 
Reduction Progress (% reduction)
2016 2017 2018 2019 ...2030-37.3%-10.8%-7.2%-5.0%-4.6%
highest-ever fuel efficiency in 2019 
— more than a 7% increase from 
2016 — and marked the greatest 
number of miles traveled per gallon 
of fuel in our history. 
Automation
As part of the transformation, we 
implemented multiple initiatives 
to increase both efficiency and 
sustainability. 
One of these initiatives is the newly 
formed 24/7 Fuel Conservation 
Desk — a team that manages train 
speed and efficiency on a minute-
by-minute basis. The team monitors 
trains for speed and horsepower and communicates automatically 
with locomotive operators in real 
time if locomotives need to be shut 
down to save fuel. 
Additionally, we invested in the 
Trip Optimizer tool, an automated 
locomotive cruise control device 
that helps locomotive engineers 
achieve optimal fuel burn by 
automatically controlling speed and 
acceleration in real-time. In 2018, 
CSX saved approximately 4 million 
gallons of fuel as a result of this 
program – increasing fuel efficiency 
by 10%. The technology is operable 
for the life of the locomotive, which 
is typically 30 years. We have also prepared to 
implement the Meet Pass 
Planner (MPP) – a locomotive 
monitoring technology – in early 
2020. The MPP determines the 
least fuel intensive action for 
two approaching trains, i.e., 
whether they should slow down 
to pass each other, or whether the 
emptier train should stop to let the 
other pass. The plan integrates 
automatic control functions that 
allow for train pace to be controlled 
remotely. The MPP will also be 
integrated with train pacing and 
trip optimization capabilities that 
generate data on the trip plan for 
each railcar and container on every 
single shipment. 
Locomotive Use 
The CSX operating model has also 
helped to significantly increase 
environmental efficiency by 
reducing the number of trains 
needed to transport the same 
amount of cargo. Since 2017, we have continued 
to look at our owned fleet to 
identify efficiencies and decrease 
the number of locomotives in our 
portfolio. At the same time, with 
our automation technology, we 
are now able to better manage 
our owned fleet and, based 
on demand, determine which 
locomotives should be kept in 
storage rather than remain idle on 
the track. Using fewer locomotives 
also means using less material and 
energy on repair and maintenance. 
This was especially significant in 
the winter when locomotives were 
stored rather than parked in idle 
states, preventing unnecessary fuel 
consumption of up to 4 gallons of 
fuel per hour. 
These combined initiatives 
of improved trip optimization 
technology and reduced 
locomotive fleet and usage 
decreased total direct fuel usage 
across all fuel types, as measured in 
gigajoules, by more than 7% from 
just 2018 to 2019. 52  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  53ENERGY PERFORMANCE
Values include direct and indirect (electricity) energy usage. Values
based on energy/fuel consumed in gigajoules (GJ), where 1 gigajoule
= 0.28 MWh.2 Energy consumption includes all sources of direct and indirect energy 
from fuels (diesel, gasoline, natural gas, propane, etc.) and electricity 
consumed inside the organization.Diesel remains the primary fuel type 
consumed by CSX, but the total 
amount consumed has decreased 
significantly each year. We are collaborating with industry partners to 
research and identify new solutions 
that will be the fuel of the future.
Electricity
Gasoline
Used Oil 
Jet Fuel
Natural Gas
Propane
DieselTotal
63,133,899Year Value
2016 70,066 
2017 68,794 
2018 67,897 
2019 63,134 CSX Annual Energy Consumption2 (1,000 GJ)
Total Energy 
Consumed by Type
CSX Annual Scope 1,2,3 GHG Emissions (1,000 metric tons CO2e)
Year Scope 1 Value Scope 2 Value Scope 3 Value
2016 4,775 229 301
2017 4,707 221 181
2018 4,649 205 154
2019 4,309 196 183
Year Value
2016 11.55 
2017 11.49 
2018 11.23 
2019 10.80 CSX Annual GHG Emissions Intensity Performance (metric tons CO2e 
per MGTM3)
3 A gross ton mile (GTM) represents the movement of one ton of 
train weight one mile. GTMs are calculated by multiplying total train 
weight by the distance the train moved. Environment54  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  55RECYCLING, REUSE, AND 
WASTE DISPOSAL 
The majority of the waste CSX 
generates (such as scrap track 
materials, tires and batteries) 
derives from locomotive and 
equipment maintenance activities 
required for ongoing operations. 
CSX generates thousands of 
tons of recycled materials each 
year, maximizing recycling before 
anything goes to the landfill. 
To reduce waste, we closely 
monitor the amount of volumes 
being generated at any given time, 
implement recycling and reduction 
measures wherever possible, and 
train employees on how to put 
recycling and reduction techniques 
into practice.
These recycling and reduction 
practices are also applied to 
waste generated from our office 
activities. In 2019, we instituted a 
new e-waste buyback program in 
partnership with Urban Mining . As 
part of the program, CSX collects 
and separates e-waste so that 
it can be refurbished, resold, or 
recycled. By the end of 2019, the program had collected 8,300 
devices and successfully diverted 
more than 630,000 pounds of waste 
away from landfills — the equivalent 
of more than 150 cars. More than 
70% of discarded laptops and 50% 
of discarded desktops were able to 
be refurbished and either resold or 
donated to those in need. In total, 
almost 98% of retired electronic 
assets were processed, resold, or 
recycled in 2019.   
WATER MANAGEMENT
Our operational transformation 
has also led to environmental 
benefits – consolidation of facilities, 
locomotives, and other resources 
means we need less water to 
accomplish our business objectives. The primary activities involving water 
at CSX include washing locomotives 
and other equipment and 
suppressing dust. In order to reduce 
the amount of water used in these 
activities, we take care to track our 
water use and apply water reduction, 
recycling, and reuse measures (e.g., 
rainwater collection and recycling) 
wherever feasible. 
For example, we invested in a multi-
million-dollar water reuse project at 
the Curtis Bay Coal Pier. The project 
increased the collection and use of 
storm water for dust suppression 
activities instead of potable water. 
Thanks to these types of projects, we 
have been able to reduce our overall 
water use by 60% since 2016.Championing Environmental Action
With more than 25 years of experience in the 
environmental management industry, Brian Zacker is 
constantly reinventing operations to achieve better 
environmental results. 
 
The regional manager of environmental field services 
and a 10-year veteran of CSX, Zacker has a deep 
understanding of the company that has helped him 
identify innovative, cross-departmental solutions to 
environmental and waste management problems. 
2016   2017   2018   20191,1992,001
486 479Total Annual Water Consumption (millions of gallons)Materials CSX Recycles
Type of Material Unit of Measurement 2019 2018 2017 2016
Used oil Million Gallons 1.34 1.83 2.41 2.57
Batteries Short Tons 407 367 390 290
Steel Short Tons 159,460 157,306 326,428 205,695
Crossties Millions 2.64 2.25 2.11 3.00
Asphalt Short Tons 34,617 92,993 32,831 94,577
Concrete Short Tons 32,905 12,957 18,258 1,270
 
For example, Zacker collaborated with the Operations 
department to create No Spike Left Behind (NSLB) 
program, which analyzes the design of railyards for 
efficiency and sets up an inventory system to improve 
material reuse or recycling and reduce surplus of 
material on railyards. NSLB resulted in more than 
4,450 tons of scrap metal being collected, producing 
approximately $500,000 in annual revenue. 
 
Zacker has also made major contributions to our 
hurricane preparedness plans. Hurricanes can 
damage the rail network and cause runoff or spills of 
hazardous waste. As part of the preparedness plan, 
Zacker and his team developed a checklist for pre-and 
post-natural disaster considerations (such as turning 
off pumps, draining holding ponds to accommodate 
excess water, bolting down tanks and checking for 
loose waste wranglers). The checklist system was 
used for the first time in August 2019 with Hurricane 
Dorian, and CSX weathered the storm free of any 
waste related issues or complications. 
Environment56  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  57OUR APPROACH 
Our business is fueled by the dedication of our 
employees and our shared commitment to be the 
best-run railroad in North America. Our people are the 
foundation of our success and keep us moving 
forward every day. That is why CSX offers rewarding 
careers with opportunities for learning, development 
and progression, including a compelling total rewards 
package that fosters a culture where employees are 
included and engaged. 
 
In 2019, our Board of Directors’ Compensation and 
Talent Management Committee expanded its oversight 
role beyond executive compensation to overall 
human capital management, including reviewing the 
company’s leadership development, performance 
management, and talent acquisition programs, as well 
as expanded oversight of the company’s plans and 
processes for promoting diversity, inclusion, and  
pay equity. 
 Our Administrative function includes dedicated Human 
Resources and Total Rewards departments that ensure 
the CSX talent strategy supports business objectives. 
These departments are responsible for workforce 
management, talent management and development, 
employee relations, diversity and inclusion, and 
compensation and benefits. Within Human Resources 
and Total Rewards, we also have a dedicated Learning 
and Development team that oversees employee 
training and professional growth, and a People and 
Analytics team that measures and evaluates our talent 
strategy performance.
THE CSX TALENT STRATEGY
As part of our company’s transformation, we 
introduced a new talent strategy to better enable us to 
attract, develop, and retain the best railroaders. The 
new strategy rests on four pillars: every position and 
every person adds value; we value diverse experiences 
and skills; compensate our workforce well for their 
achievements; and motivate them to succeed. 
People
Our Approach
The CSX Talent Strategy
Transforming Our Workforce
Talent Acquisition
Talent Development
Total Rewards
Employee Health & Wellbeing
Employee Engagement 
Diversity & Inclusion
“As CSX railroaders, we are 
proud of our role in keeping our 
country and economy moving. 
We embrace that being part 
of a company driving industry 
transformation requires every 
employee in every role to be a 
leader, have a service-mindset, 
and an intense curiosity to 
improve.”
Diana B. Sorfleet, 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Administrative Officer58  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  59
RIGHT ROLE, RIGHT 
NUMBER
Every position adds value
CSX Talent 
StrategyDIVERSE EXPERIENCES  
& SKILLS
Every person adds value
WELL-COMPENSATED
Competitive pay and benefitsMOTIVATED TO SUCCEED
Diversity, inclusion and 
engagementRIGHT ROLE, 
RIGHT NUMBER 
Every position adds 
value. 
A primary objective of our talent 
strategy is to ensure that every 
position creates value. As part 
of our approach to workforce 
planning, we closely examined 
positions and skill sets, as well as 
the work needed for the future, to 
make the company more agile and 
better positioned for growth.  TRANSFORMING OUR 
WORKFORCE
The business transformation 
brought significant changes to 
our workforce. We eliminated 
redundancies in work and 
redefined roles and expectations, 
resulting in fewer positions, less 
bureaucracy and faster decision- 
making, clearer accountability 
and focus. We provided new 
opportunities to our employees, 
and in management alone, 472 
employees received promotions in 
2019. Of these promotions, 34% 
were union employees promoted 
to operations frontline supervisor 
positions. 
This phase of our transformation 
has aligned our workforce to be 
well-positioned for future growth 
and industry leadership.  TALENT ACQUISITION
To be the best-run railroad in North 
America, we need the best people. 
We are fully dedicated to attracting 
top talent from different industries 
and backgrounds to bring in critical 
expertise, diverse experiences and 
skill sets that position our company 
for sustained growth. Critical to 
our ability to acquire top talent is 
our approach to hiring. From the 
beginning of the hiring process, we 
want to ensure that every candidate 
has a positive experience with 
CSX. We provide our interviewers 
with training in interviewing best 
practices and unconscious bias to 
ensure that they are equipped to 
identify high-potential talent. We 
also train interviewers to acquaint 
top candidates with our wide range 
of craft and management career 
opportunities as well as our unique 
service-oriented culture. The CSX Workforce workers 
strong
of overall 
workforce20,908
20%Workforce diversity* 
(*calculated as the percentage 
of males of color and all females)Three generations  
of our workforce
Average age and years  
of serviceOverall retention rate
Management new hires Management promotions
Veteran and active duty 
military status
3,323 
veterans, active duty military,  
and first responders
16% 
of the workforce49% 
diverse21% 
female37%
17%
39% 
diverse24% 
femaleof  
management
of  
unionGen X68%
23%
9%Gen Y
Boomers45 
average age14.4  
years of service
Union new hires
34% diverse
4% female92.4 %
470  subsidiary 
company 
employees17,146
3,292union  
employees
management 
employeesPeople60  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  61DIVERSE 
EXPERIENCES & 
SKILLS 
Every person adds 
value. 
To ensure employees are 
trained and supported, we have 
implemented initiatives designed 
to drive professional growth, 
further align our workforce with 
our operating model, strengthen 
our talent pipeline and embed our 
guiding principles.
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
Development and Growth 
Opportunities for All CSX 
Employees
We are deeply committed to 
fostering a culture and workplace 
where employees have a 
meaningful work experience; feel 
valued and supported; and have 
the right tools and resources to 
be successful. We focus on skill 
development at all levels of the 
organization through a combination 
of work assignments, on-the-job 
experiences and focused trainings, 
which help our team members 
acquire the necessary skills, 
experiences and competencies to 
take on increased responsibility. 
From a skills development
perspective, we adopted a 70-
20-10 model in which 70% of 
development comes from on-the-
job training, 20% from coaching 
and mentoring, and 10% from 
formal instruction. At all levels, we 
encourage employees to learn from each other and share their unique 
skills and expertise. In response 
to employee interest in greater 
development opportunities and 
increased communication with 
managers, we continue to offer 
formal development programs, 
instructor led learning, on line 
learning and on the job training 
opportunities. 
WELL-
COMPENSATED 
Competitive pay and 
benefits. 
CSX offers a competitive 
compensation and benefits 
package for our railroaders to 
help drive our recruitment efforts, 
promote retention, and enhance 
engagement in the organization.
 
TOTAL REWARDS
CSX’s total rewards packages 
for our management and union 
employees are designed to 
support employee recruitment, 
retention, and engagement, as 
well as our short and long-term 
growth objectives as a company. 
We regularly benchmark our 
compensation and benefits plans 
and offerings against railroad and 
general industry standards to 
ensure our total rewards remain at 
or above market. 
In 2020, to continue to motivate 
management employees below 
the director career level, stock 
awards of performance units 
were granted to employees to 
recognize their efforts during the Training in Action
In 2018, we introduced our Frontline Supervisor 
Training. As part of the program, leadership facilitated 
training sessions with both operations and non-
operations frontline supervisors that aimed to 
deepen their understanding of key organizational 
messages, strengthen leadership development skills, 
and empower them to impact change and deliver 
results. The program is facilitated by Executive 
Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents and 
has already been completed by more than 70% of 
frontline supervisors.
 
In 2019, CSX created a development program called 
Switching Schools as part of an effort to maximize 
knowledge, efficiency and safety surrounding 
switching operations, operating rules and procedural 
requirements for employees who were previously 
involved in human factor incidents. The two-day 
course encompasses classroom and outside field 
training scenarios and competencies that help 
broaden employees’ overall rules and operational 
skillset and minimize the potential for any future 
reoccurrence. Employees attending the training 
have had a 95% success rate in the prevention of 
additional incidents. To  foster a culture of integrity, respect and safety, 
we also unveiled a Professionalism Toolkit in 2019 
to encourage meaningful discussions among 
leaders, managers and employees, with new 
topics being added every quarter. As part of this 
initiative, employees can nominate leaders who have 
demonstrated professionalism and stand out. Each 
quarter, leaders are selected and recognized for their 
contributions. 
 
We provide Service and Sales Training to Sales and 
Marketing professionals to continually strengthen their 
skill sets, improve performance, and use cutting edge 
technology to promote CSX premier service. 
 
Based on employee feedback, we also focused on 
enhancing our Talent and Learning Management 
System by introducing mobile access capabilities 
for employees to set and track performance and 
development goals; complete online training courses; 
and ensure alignment with organizational goals and 
expectations. 
business transformation and align 
all management employees to 
focus on long-term performance of 
the company. This is the first time 
employees in these career levels 
received a stock award grant; 
extending our pay-for-performance 
philosophy.
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELL-
BEING
We are committed to helping our 
employees stay healthy through 
tools, resources, and support 
programs. Starting in 2019, we 
shifted our focus from physical 
wellness to an overall well-being 
approach with four key pillars — 
physical, emotional, social, and 
financial support. The basis for this 
shift is to adapt our offerings to 
an increasingly diverse workforce 
with “a la carte” options instead of 
a “one size fits all” plan. Highlights 
include: 
 ›Enriched voluntary benefits 
that add flexibility and meet a 
wider range of employee needs, 
including accident, critical illness, 
hospital indemnity, and a pet 
insurance program
 ›Tools and resources for 
employees with chronic 
conditions, such as diabetes and 
hypertension
 ›Free access to Care@Work’s 
platform for finding child, elder 
and pet care resources
To learn more about CSX benefits, 
visit our 2020 Benefits Summary 
page. People62  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  63
MOTIVATED TO 
SUCCEED
Diversity, inclusion  
and engagement.
Through inclusion and engagement 
initiatives, CSX works to ensure 
that employees feel they are part 
of the company culture and have 
a stake in the success of the 
business.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
Our employees are at the core of 
our success, so it is important that 
they are engaged in the business, 
motivated to succeed and 
equipped with the skills necessary 
for their continued growth at the 
company. To foster engagement, 
we have implemented mechanisms 
to ask employees how we can 
improve their experience and 
provide formal training programs to 
support their development. 
Employee Feedback
Our leadership is committed to a 
culture that empowers employees 
to deliver value and reach their full 
potential. To attain our vision to 
be the best-run railroad in North 
America, we want every employee 
to be motivated and inspired as a 
contributor to our collective success. 
 
We recently conducted a broad- 
scale safety and culture survey to 
gauge employee engagement and 
identify areas for improvement. In 
addition, we gathered feedback 
through short pulse surveys to 
track our progress. While we have 
made significant progress in our 
efforts to be the best, we have learned most recently that our 
employees would like additional 
career development resources 
that include how we enhance 
our service mindset. We are 
developing options that support 
their learning and engagement 
 
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
We understand that promoting a 
diverse and inclusive culture — 
in which every employee is fully 
engaged and can reach his or her 
full potential — is integral to our 
future growth and success. To do 
that, we need to reflect the 
communities in which we operate. 
In late 2018, we updated our 
a particular focus on disability 
inclusion, women in field positions 
and military-friendly programs and 
policies, as well as ensuring that 
every position adds value. 
As we work to increase the 
diversity of our workforce, CSX 
has built partnerships with 
organizations such as the National 
African-American Women’s 
Leadership Institute, SOAR, 
the Wounded Warrior Project, 
and Generation W . Through our 
partnerships, we create stronger 
inclusion, provide opportunities 
and resources for our workforce, 
and enhance our access to 
exceptional talent. The CSX management 
workforce is 37% 
diverse. Our unionized 
workforce is 17% 
diverse, which places 
our overall diversity 
at 20%.
formal diversity and inclusion 
strategy to align with our corporate 
strategy, based on the recognition 
that people are the foundation of 
our success and our commitment 
to developing a culture that 
inspires employee engagement 
and excellence. 
 
While work remains to be done, we 
are proud of the strides that CSX 
has made toward building 
a diverse organization that 
celebrates different backgrounds 
and experiences. With support 
from our leaders, we maintain our 
focus on working collaboratively 
with our employees, communities 
and partners to create a diverse 
and inclusive workplace, with People
“CSX sets high standards for an 
inclusive culture. We are committed 
to developing a diverse workforce 
and leveraging everyone’s unique 
backgrounds and skillsets for our 
collective success.”
Stephanie W. Noel, 
Vice President of Human Resources 
and Chief Diversity Officer.  
64  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  65“I learned about SOAR through our General 
Manager Ray Canady and Human Resources 
Business Partner Tre Gamble,” said Amanda. 
“The best experiences have been learning 
about different leadership styles by studying 
other leaders such as Martin Luther King, Jr., 
and also learning from my peers’ experiences. 
Having the opportunity to meet women in 
leadership roles in other industries, who are 
facing the same challenges and opportunities, 
has been helpful in my own personal 
development as a leader.” 
Amanda Dellinger, 
Trainmaster, Buffalo Terminal, Northeast  
Region Operations 
CSX Named a “Best Place to Work for Disability 
Inclusion” 
One of our proudest achievements in 2019 was being 
recognized as a “Best Place to Work for Disability 
Inclusion” by Disability:IN and the American Association 
of People with Disabilities after receiving a 100% score 
on their disability equality index. This recognition is the 
result of stated policies on disability inclusion, support 
for disability initiatives in the company and community, 
healthcare benefits, and digital accessibility. 
Business Resource Groups
CSX’s business resource groups (BRG) are employee 
initiated networks led by an executive-level sponsor to 
promote a diverse, inclusive, and engaged workplace 
culture. These volunteer groups connect individuals 
with shared interests and experiences and are focused 
on initiatives that apply their perspectives to business 
imperatives. BRG members are actively involved in both 
community service and business initiatives for CSX and 
they are making a difference.
 ›ABLE Disability Inclusion Group:  
Promotes a culture that attracts and encourages 
individuals with disabilities to make a positive 
contribution to the company and society through 
informational sessions, volunteer events, and 
awareness campaigns. 
 ›African American Inclusion Group:  
Aims to build and sustain a community of African 
American employees; foster a culture of inclusion; 
and support African American representation in the 
company through community outreach, professional 
development and networking events.
 ›Asian Professionals for Excellence:  
Helps build a network of support for Asian American 
professionals in the CSX community; promotes a better 
understanding of the diverse cultures of the Asian 
continent among the workforce; and helps recruit and 
promote top Asian American talent at CSX.  
 ›Interchange Women’s Leadership Network:  
Supports the growth and professional development 
of women at CSX through networking, mentoring, 
and other learning opportunities, including career 
development panels and “Lunch and Learns” with 
senior leadership. 
People
Women at CSX
We are committed to increasing women’s 
representation in the workforce through targeted 
initiatives to attract, develop and engage female 
employees across CSX. 
As we continue to identify opportunities to promote 
CSX as an attractive employer and strengthen our 
recruitment and hiring efforts, we also prioritize 
learning and development opportunities for women 
at all levels of the organization through targeted 
training opportunities. These include:
 ›Women’s Leadership Development Program: 
A 12- to 18-month program for women at the 
senior leadership level that focuses on individual 
leadership capabilities, improving overall business 
acumen, and developing a shared point of view on 
how to build a culture of sustainable results.  
 ›Events through Interchange Women’s  
Leadership Network:  
Events that foster mentorship and provide 
opportunities to learn from other female leaders 
through our business resource groups.  
 ›Strategic Partnerships:  
Formal training programs for women in our 
workforce developed in collaboration with SOAR, 
National African-American Women’s Leadership 
Institute, and Generation W.
“At the end of 2019, 22% of 
management employees and 
2% of union employees were 
women, accounting for 5.4% 
of CSX’s overall workforce.”66  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  67
local veterans employment representatives, student 
veterans groups, professional military associations and 
veteran’s service organizations to support a robust 
pipeline of service talent.  
 
In the fall of 2019, we relaunched our Count Me In 
campaign to encourage employees to self-identify 
either military or disability status. This confidential 
information helps us create strategies that improve 
and measure our progress toward our diversity 
programs; support our recruitment and retention 
efforts; and better tailor programming to employees’ 
unique needs and interests. 
From the Military to CSX: A Shared 
Culture of Dedication, Commitment, 
and Discipline 
Carl Walker
Chief Engineer, Communications and Signals 
Carl Walker began his career at CSX in 1999 as a 
manager of communications solutions in technology 
following 22 years of service in the U.S. Navy. 
Walker held various roles with increasing levels of 
responsibility at CSX before becoming chief engineer, 
communications and signals. 
Walker began his military career as an enlisted service 
member in communications and was commissioned 
as an officer in 1989. He completed three deployments 
to the Persian Gulf on the U.S.S. George Washington 
during Operation Iraqi Freedom and the Gulf War.
He learned about CSX while in the military, and CSX’s Chief Information Officer 
Named One of “Most Admired 
Women Leaders in Business”
Kathleen Brandt
Senior Vice President of Technology and Chief 
Information Officer 
Kathleen Brandt began her career at CSX in 1985 as 
a software developer. Over the years, she progressed 
to positions of increasing responsibility across many 
functions within CSX Technology, gaining a unique 
perspective of railroad operations and eventually 
earning a leadership role as senior vice president of 
technology and chief information officer. 
 
In 2019, Brandt was named one of the “Most Admired 
Women Leaders in Business” by Insights Success, 
which recognized her leadership and strategic vision 
in guiding CSX’s delivery of technology solutions to 
increase service agility, reliability and — above all — 
safety. 
 Brandt is involved in many organizations that focus 
on encouraging and engaging the next generation of 
professional women. She is on the Board of Directors 
of Railinc, Northeast Florida Regional STEM2 Hub, and 
Dreams Come True. She also serves on the executive 
advisory board of the Jacksonville University Davis 
College of Business, is a sponsor of SOAR, and is 
involved with the National African American Women’s 
Leadership Institute and Women in IT. 
Our Commitment to Veterans, Military,  
and First Responders
We pride ourselves on being a military-friendly 
company and celebrating our military population.  
We are honored to have more than 3,300 veterans,  
active-duty military and first responders at CSX.  
Together they form approximately one-fifth of the  
CSX workforce. 
 
We actively seek veteran, military, and first responder 
candidates for CSX positions. In 2019, we increased 
our focus on sourcing, and recruiting talent among the 
service population. In addition to engaging with our 
Pride in Service partners, we created relationships with 
CSX’s Ryan Walker presenting to 20 veterans at a 
Wounded Warrior Project informational hiring event. 
became interested in working for a railroad, more 
specifically, CSX, after his retirement. “What I like 
about going from the military to CSX is that the 
organizational structure is very similar,” he said. 
“Working for CSX, particularly in operations 
and engineering, you need a high level of 
dedication, commitment, and discipline 
in order to effectively execute the various 
projects.” 
Carl is also the sponsor of the African American 
Inclusion Group at CSX. PeopleCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  69
 68  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance ReportOUR APPROACH
Service defines CSX including service to our 
customers, service to each other and service to our 
communities. Across our 23-state network, we serve 
communities through monetary and in-kind giving as 
well as the dedicated and passionate volunteer work  
of our employees. In 2019, CSX contributed more  
than $10 million and nearly 9,000 volunteer hours  
to our communities. 
PRIDE IN SERVICE 
 
A New Approach to Community Investment   
As we reinvented our operations over the past 
several years, we also reexamined our approach to 
community investment. We wanted to ensure that 
our contributions served the critical needs of our 
communities; connected to our business and values; 
and aligned with our employees’ passions. With 
these goals in mind, on the eve of Veterans Day 2018, 
CSX launched Pride in Service, a company-wide 
commitment to honor and serve those who serve our 
country and our communities – our nation’s veterans, 
active military, and first responders. Our headquarters in Jacksonville, Florida, and much of 
our rail network are near military bases and areas with 
high concentrations of military families. And in every 
town along our routes are heroes who serve or have 
served their community and their country — whether 
they are police officers, firefighters, National Guard 
members or veterans returning to civilian life. These 
heroes have faced danger and hardship in the line 
of duty as well as on the home front. These include 
financial struggles, disconnection and isolation from 
civilian communities. 
 
CSX employees know these challenges well. One in 
every five CSX employees has a service background. 
The cultural connection between service and 
railroading is deep. Additionally, we employ our own 
CSX police force and hazmat team, more than 100 
employees strong. 
Our Commitment to Those Who Serve 
Through Pride in Service, each year we connect 
thousands of servicemen, servicewomen and family 
members with the support they need — when they 
need it and where they need it.  
Communities 
Our Approach
Pride in Service
Our Hometown
Disaster Relief
Employee Giving & Volunteerism70  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  71
CSX’s one-of-a-kind locomotives — the Spirit of our Law 
Enforcement, the Spirit of our Armed Forces, and the Spirit 
of our First Responders — that symbolize our gratitude to 
those who serve.  As part of the initiative, we partner with the nation’s 
leading veteran, military, and first responder 
organizations. Our founding partners include Blue Star 
Families, Operation Gratitude, Operation Homefront, 
First Responders Children’s Foundation, and Wounded 
Warrior Project — each of which addresses a unique 
area of need within the service community.  
In its first year, Pride in Service reached more 
than 85,000 servicemen, servicewomen, and 
family members. 
Together with these organizations, we provide support 
in three areas: financial assistance, community 
connections, and gratitude.  
 
Financial Assistance 
Service can bring about financial struggles — both 
during service and when a service member returns 
home. Most military families do not have a second 
income and often struggle to make ends meet. First 
responders are frequently injured on the job, resulting 
in significant time away from work. Nearly 1.5 million 
veterans live in poverty nationwide.   
 
CSX provides critical financial assistance to hundreds 
of service families in the moments they most need 
it. With the help of the First Responders Children’s 
Foundation, in 2019 we provided 28 life-changing 
scholarships to children of fallen or injured servicemen 
and servicewomen. In partnership with Operation 
Homefront, we helped give more than 1,000 critical-
relief grants that alleviate families’ urgent financial 
pressures and mitigate the financial burden of joyful 
times of transition or periods of heavy expenses. 
Together, we connected more than 100 expectant 
mothers with the supplies and support networks they 
need to care for a newborn and helped nearly 2,000 
families get back-to-school supplies and prepare for 
the classroom.  
 Communities72  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  73“The CSX-Blue Star Families 
partnership has provided 
extraordinary value to military 
families across the country, 
enabling Blue Star Families to 
open new chapter locations in 
places that need them most.”
Kathy Roth-Douquet
CEO and Board President of  
Blue Star Families
“Because of CSX, First Responders 
Children’s Foundation has been 
able to award important grants to 
first responder agencies and life-
changing scholarships to children 
of first responders. Thank you, CSX, 
for your tremendous dedication 
and support of first responders 
and their families. The partnership 
has also helped respond to the 
COVID-19 pandemic through our 
Emergency Response Fund, Mask & 
PPE program, and First Responder 
Happy & Healthy Child Program.” 
Jillian Crane
President, First Responders Children’s 
Foundation
“We are incredibly proud to be part  
of CSX’s innovative Pride in Service 
initiative, through which CSX and 
their employees help us help military 
families who are facing unexpected 
financial hardships. With their 
continued support of our highly 
valued programs, we are able to 
serve those who have done, and 
continue to do, so much for all of us.”
Brig. Gen. (ret.) John I. Pray Jr.
President and CEO of Operation 
Homefront
Communities
“In 2019, Operation Gratitude 
achieved unprecedented 
results in its 17th year as a 
nonprofit. Our ability to scale 
operations and reach can 
be attributed in large part 
to our partnership with CSX 
and their amazing employees 
who volunteered in a hands-
on way and helped us make 
a difference for more than 
370,000 military, veterans, 
and first responders in 
communities nationwide.” 
Kevin M. Schmiegel
CEO, Operation Gratitude  
“We’re so grateful to CSX 
for their commitment to 
serving wounded warriors 
and their families through 
Wounded Warrior Project 
Carry Forward. Their support 
has been instrumental in 
bringing these events to 
life – putting our mission in 
motion through the power 
and passion of communities 
across the country.”  
 
Mike Linnington
CEO of Wounded Warrior 
Project74  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  75
New York, NY: CSX supported the First Responders Children’s Foundation Annual Thanksgiving Day Parade 
Breakfast, hosting current scholarship recipients and their families from across the country and announcing a 
scholarship in honor of NYPD Detective Luis Alvarez, who passed away from a 9/11-related illness.
Baltimore, MD: CSX and Blue Star Families hosted local 
military families for a day at the B&O Railroad Museum in July 
2019 in celebration of the launch of a new CSX-sponsored 
Blue Star Families in Baltimore.Nashville, TN: CSX volunteers participated in a CSX-sponsored 
Wounded Warrior Project Carry Forward 5K in September 2019 to 
raise funds for veterans in need.
Jacksonville, FL: CSX and Operation Homefront hosted 
a Back-To-School Brigade event in August 2019, at 
which CSX volunteers packed 250 backpacks filled with 
school supplies for local children of military families. 
Cincinnati, OH: Operation Gratitude and CSX joined forces in 
October 2019 to assemble 10,000 care pouches for first responders 
and active-duty service members in the Cincinnati area.CommunitiesCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  77 76  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report
Paying It Forward: In Service  
of Service 
 
Steve Hannesson 
Director of Safety and  
Operating Practices-Northeast Region
At age 17, I joined the Army Reserves after graduating 
from military high school. As chance would have it, 
I was accepted to the police academy on the very 
same day CSX offered me my first position. While 
I would have been happy to join law enforcement, 
I grew up in a railroad family and was even more 
excited to take after those I looked up to. I elected 
to remain a reservist, however, and I was called to 
serve as a military policeman in Bosnia in 1997 before 
returning to CSX. Since then, I’ve been deployed to 
El Salvador, Afghanistan, Romania, and more — and 
after each deployment, I’ve returned to CSX fully 
supported. No matter which “tour of duty” I was on, 
each role built upon the last, allowing me to expand 
upon my leadership and technical skills.  
 
While deployed, I received an Operation Gratitude 
care package on two occasions — once in 
Afghanistan and once in Romania. As a younger man 
in Afghanistan, I’ll never forget the personal comfort 
that package gave me. The idea that a stranger cared 
about me back home enough to send me a gift was 
incredibly touching and really helped get me through 
a difficult time. In Romania, several years later, I 
appreciated the Operation Gratitude care packages delivered to my troops in a different way. While I had a 
supportive family back home and the means to obtain 
the resources I needed while deployed, some of the 
younger men and women weren’t as fortunate. These 
care packages and the items inside were truly a lifeline 
for some of them. Both times, I realized how simple 
acts of gratitude could go an extremely long way.  
In those moments, I’m not sure I expected I’d ever 
be in a position to pay forward that gratitude that 
I was so generously shown. I certainly couldn’t 
have predicted that, five years later, I’d be standing 
side by side with my CSX coworkers in Baltimore, 
MD assembling care packages for local city first 
responders. When I heard CSX was organizing this 
opportunity through Pride in Service, there was just no 
way I would not be there.   
  
The Baltimore assembly brought our CSX team 
together in service of others and gave me the chance 
to volunteer alongside my wife, an active member of 
the National Guard, and my two boys, passing the 
spirit of service down to the next generation.  
Community Connections 
Too often, service families feel 
isolated from civilians. A majority 
of military families do not feel they 
belong in the communities where 
they live, and 92% of military 
families feel the public does not 
understand their sacrifices.  
 
To help military families gain a 
sense of belonging and to bridge 
the service-civilian divide, CSX 
works with Blue Star Families to 
support thousands of families 
in select communities in need. 
In 2019, we partnered to host 
nearly 200 community events, 
reaching more than 30,000 family 
members and their neighbors, 
across the CSX-supported chapter 
locations in Baltimore, Maryland; 
Tennessee; Chicago, Illinois; and 
Jacksonville, Florida. In these 
areas, we also support year-round activities to foster relationship-
building, including civilian-service 
reading programs and book clubs; 
free and low-cost opportunities 
for family events, museum visits 
and cultural tours; hiking and 
outdoor recreation opportunities; 
wounded warrior caregiver peer 
support; military spouse walking 
groups; and other civilian-military 
engagement programs. 
 
Gratitude 
We come together as CSX 
employees to show our immense 
respect, honor, and appreciation 
for those who serve. With 
Operation Gratitude, we packed 
more than 43,000 care packages 
with more than 1 million items 
for 27,800 military members, 
3,800 veterans, and 12,200 first 
responders and sent more than 
2,000 CSX employee-written letters of gratitude. We worked with 
Wounded Warrior Project to launch 
Carry Forward 5K run or walk 
events — community fundraisers 
designed to bring together civilians 
with those who served. In 2018 and 
2019, CSX employees ran side by 
side with veterans and their families 
in Jacksonville and Nashville to 
recognize their service and raise 
needed funds for the cause.  
 
While Pride in Service is a long- 
term CSX commitment, we 
set an initial goal to positively 
impact more than 100,000 
heroes and family members by 
the end of 2020. Through 2019, 
we had already reached 85,000 
servicemen, servicewomen and 
family members in all 11 branches 
of the military, deployed in 35 
countries, across all seven seas 
and in all 23 states we serve. Communities78  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  79
OUR HOMETOWN  
As an engaged member of our hometown community, 
we are dedicated to supporting the unique needs 
of the Jacksonville area through Pride in Service, 
Community Service Grants, and enthusiastic 
employee volunteerism. In addition to serving 
Jacksonville through our Pride in Service partners, in 
2019 we supported a number of other organizations 
critical to Greater Jacksonville, including the 
Jacksonville Wolfson Children’s Hospital, the North 
Florida Chapter of JDRF, Northeast Florida Regional 
STEM2 Hub, the Jacksonville Symphony, and St. 
Johns Riverkeeper.  
 
DISASTER RELIEF 
When Hurricane Dorian made landfall in September 
2019, CSX and our employees provided aid to 
affected families through our long-time partner, the 
American Red Cross. To support employees affected 
by the storm, we also provided assistance from 
the CSX Employees Disaster Relief Fund. Created 
following Hurricane Katrina in 2005, the fund supports 
employees during catastrophic events to help alleviate 
disaster-inflicted financial expenses, such as property 
loss and medical bills.  
 
EMPLOYEE GIVING & VOLUNTEERISM 
CSX employees give generously to their communities, 
both through CSX community partners and through 
the organizations that mean the most to them and 
their families. We offer several programs to support 
CSX employees in giving back. 
 
Dollars for Doers: 
When a CSX employee volunteers at least 15 
hours, the CSX Foundation donates $10 per hour 
volunteered, up to 40 hours, to an eligible organization 
of the employee’s choice.  Employee Gift Matching: 
In 2019, we launched a matching gift program in 
which we match dollar-for-dollar any donation made 
by a CSX employee to a 501(c)(3) organization of the 
employee’s choice, up to $1,000. 
 
Board Service: 
CSX executives are eligible to serve on nonprofit 
boards of their choice through the CSX Foundation 
Board Service program. The Board Service program 
contributes to the organizations with which CSX 
executives are affiliated and provides counsel and 
guidance for CSX executives looking to become 
involved with a nonprofit board. In 2019, more than a 
third of CSX executives participated in the program.  Communities80  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  81
Governance
OUR APPROACH  
CSX has a comprehensive governance and 
compliance program that guides how we coordinate 
and implement our company policies, procedures, 
and values, as well as how we monitor adherence to 
laws and regulations. Our Executive team and our 
Board of Directors are responsible for developing 
and communicating the CSX vision and purpose, 
and oversee the implementation of good governance 
practices. 
Key elements of the CSX governance program include: 
 ›Annual election of directors
 ›Majority voting standard for election of directors
 ›Independent chairman of the board 
 ›Stock ownership guidelines for officers and directors
 ›Policy against hedging and pledging of CSX shares
 ›Proxy access
 ›Pay-for-performance alignmentOur Approach
Board of Directors
Business Ethics
Shareholder Outreach and Engagement
Executive Compensation
Risk Management and Business Disruption Prevention
Responsible Sourcing
Human Rights
Human Trafficking
For more information, CSX’s Corporate Governance 
Guidelines are available on our website.82  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  83long-term growth and success. 
In 2019, our board comprised 
of 11 individuals with diverse 
backgrounds and experiences.
Each member of the board plays 
a critical role in developing the 
company’s long-term strategy to 
deliver sustainable shareholder 
value, while monitoring and mitigating against unnecessary  
risk. All directors are elected on  
an annual basis.
More information about our Board 
of Directors can be found in our 
2020 Proxy Statement and on our 
Board of Directors page.BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
At CSX, our corporate governance 
starts with our Board of Directors, 
which is charged with the 
responsibility of understanding 
the opportunities and challenges 
across our business and making 
decisions that drive the company’s 
(left to right)
Donna M. Alvarado 
Founder and President of Aguila 
International
Pamela L. Carter  
(retired from CSX Board on  
May 22, 2020) | Retired President of 
Cummins Inc. and President of Cummins 
Distribution Business
James M. Foote 
President and Chief Executive Officer  
of CSX
Steven T. Halverson 
Retired Chief Executive Officer  
of The Haskell Company
Paul C. Hilal 
Founder and Managing Member  
of Mantle Ridge GP LLC
John D. McPherson 
Retired President and Chief Operating 
Officer of Florida East Coast Railway
David M. Moffett 
Retired Chief Executive Officer  
and a Director of the Federal Home Loan 
Mortgage Corporation
Linda H. Riefler 
Director of MSCI and Former Chairman  
of Global Research for Morgan Stanley
Suzanne M. Vautrinot 
President of Kilovolt Consulting, Inc. and 
Retired U.S. Air Force Major General
James L. Wainscott 
Retired Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer of AK Steel Holding 
Corporation (joined July 8, 2020)
J. Steven Whisler 
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of Phelps Dodge Corporation
John J. Zillmer 
Chairman of the Board and  
Chief Executive Officer and Director  
of Aramark CorporationBoard Highlights*
*as of December 31, 20197.0  years  
Average director tenure 
Gender diversity: 
36% 
Women directors
83% 
Meeting attendance64.9  years  
Average director age 
Board size and independence:
• 9 out of 11 directors  
are independent
• Independent chairman  
of the board 
Other public company boards: 
• 1.5 average board positionsGovernance84  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  85BUSINESS ETHICS
The CSX Code of Ethics is a 
guiding standard for ethical 
behavior at all levels of our 
company, including all employees 
and officers of CSX and its wholly-
owned subsidiaries, as well as 
members of the Board of Directors 
and partners conducting business 
with or on behalf of CSX. 
The code covers matters such 
as conflicts of interest; insider 
trading; confidential information 
misuse; compliance with laws 
and regulations; discrimination 
and harassment; whistle-blower 
protection; public and employee 
safety; and proper use of corporate 
assets. 
We provide ethics training 
throughout the year, which 
is required for all of our 
management employees and 
highly recommended for union 
employees, on applying the 
code in all daily interactions. 
We additionally provide a 24/7 
CSX Ethics Helpline, operated 
by an independent service, 
Ethics Helpline Calls
1,066Union Employees Trained
75.3%Management Employees 
Trained
100%2019 Ethics  
Data Highlightsthrough which employees are 
encouraged to anonymously 
report code violations or other 
ethical concerns. In 2019, we did 
not experience any significant 
violations to the code.  
SHAREHOLDER OUTREACH 
AND ENGAGEMENT
To ensure that our company 
wholly understands and 
represents our shareholders’ 
interests, we conduct shareholder 
outreach throughout the year 
and communicate thoughts and 
considerations to our board. 
Our senior leaders and subject-
matter experts meet routinely with 
representatives from institutional 
shareholders and periodically with 
proxy advisory firms. We also invite 
shareholders and other interested 
parties to industry and investment 
community conferences, investor 
road shows, and analyst meetings.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
CSX provides competitive 
total compensation in line 
with general market practices. 
Our Compensation and Talent 
Management Committee is 
responsible for reviewing CSX’s 
annual and three-year business 
plans and global economic 
forecasts to set appropriate 
and challenging performance 
goals for our Executive team. To 
further drive safety outcomes 
and accountability, in 2019, we 
added safety performance metrics 
to our management incentive 
compensation plan. Risk Oversight Process 
Compliance Risks External Risks Strategic RisksManage Day-to-Day 
ActivitiesBusiness & 
Functional 
Leaders
Identifies and 
Monitors RisksEnterprise 
Risk 
Management 
Team
Provides Strategic 
Oversight of RisksBoard of 
Directors/
Audit 
Committee
CSX Risk UniverseGovernance
For more information about our 
executive compensation practices, 
please refer to our 2020 Proxy 
Statement. 
RISK MANAGEMENT AND 
BUSINESS DISRUPTION 
PREVENTION
As an integral link in the 
transportation of goods that 
businesses and consumers need 
day to day, we must anticipate 
risks and prepare for any 
disruption to our business. We 
have robust measures in place 
to predict and manage risks and 
ensure continuity of our operations. 
In 2019, we invested $1.7 
billion in capital expenditures to 
maintain and improve our existing 
infrastructure and help prepare for 
any eventualities. 
The board’s Audit Committee 
oversees our risk management 
strategy. This includes oversight of 
CSX’s Enterprise Risk Management 
program, through which business 
and functional leaders collaborate 
to identify, assess and monitor 
risk, as well as implement needed 
mitigation actions.  
Our approach to risk management 
focuses on activities we can 
control as well as those we cannot. 
Network Resiliency and Climate-
Related Risk Management 
Under our centralized enterprise 
risk management processes, 
we have integrated a multi-
disciplinary, company-wide climate 
change strategy that evaluates all 
types and sources of risks and 
opportunities. CSX applies an 
internal methodology to evaluate any short- or long-term scenarios 
where climate change and other 
types of disruption may impact 
operations or safety. To mitigate 
the physical risk of climate-
related extreme weather, we 
have established comprehensive 
business plans that are designed 
to ensure continuity of train 
operations and the adaptability of 
CSX’s network. 
We constantly work to strengthen 
our network to protect us from 
climate-related impacts, such 
as hurricanes or flooding, which 
can potentially cause damage 
to the CSX infrastructure and 
result in service interruption, train 
accidents, or other operational 
difficulties. 
CSX’s operations and public safety 
departments play critical roles 
in weather event preparedness, from performing preventative 
maintenance to limiting 
service disruptions, to forming 
relationships with first responders 
and sharing resources with 
communities in need. 
In September 2019, CSX’s 
hurricane preparation was put to 
the test as tropical storm Dorian 
transformed into Hurricane Dorian 
and began to threaten the Eastern 
Seaboard of the United States. 
CSX’s core leadership team and 
key decision makers worked to 
forecast impacts and to allocate 
resources across the East Coast 
to respond to operational needs 
and protect company assets. By 
making extensive preparations 
for the potential effects of the 
storm and proactively notifying 
impacted customers, we were able 
to minimize delays and service 
interruptions. Cyber and Information Security 
Management
As it is for all organizations 
in today’s society, cyber and 
information security is a priority 
for our business. The protection of 
customers’ personal information, 
as well as the integrity of our 
own operations, is of the highest 
importance. In 2019, to provide 
added strategic guidance in this 
area, Suzanne M. Vautrinot, retired 
U.S. Air Force major general 
and president of a cybersecurity 
strategy and technology consulting 
firm, joined our board. 
Through our Information Security 
team, we equip our systems with 
the latest cybersecurity tools, 
provide cybersecurity information 
to all employees, require annual 
cybersecurity awareness trainings,86  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  87and encourage employees to 
report any suspicious or unusual 
behavior observed on or around 
the use of electronic resources to 
the CSX Information Technology 
Service Desk. We also regularly 
collaborate with the Association of 
American Railroads and industry 
peers to exchange relevant threat 
intelligence, share best practices, 
and advance the overall industry 
approach to this issue. 
As part of our October 
Cybersecurity Awareness Month 
campaign, we introduced a new 
training course that provides 
critical tips and guidelines to help 
employees better protect CSX 
systems and information from 
people who create online crimes. 
Recently, we rolled out a new 
cybersecurity platform that 
provides employees with fast, 
secure access to internal resources 
and information from any location. 
In 2019, we experienced zero 
information security or other 
cybersecurity breaches. 
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 
We view our suppliers as an 
extension of our company — 
equally dedicated to environmental 
stewardship, high ethical 
standards, and diversity. We work 
with approximately 4,900 suppliers 
domestically and internationally. 
We expect all of our suppliers to 
adhere to the CSX Code of Ethics.
Through our Supplier Diversity 
Program, CSX is committed to 
procuring all materials, supplies, 
and services in alignment with 
our Diverse Supplier Procurement 
Policy. To that end, we offer 
opportunities for all suppliers, 
regardless of any social or 
economic distinction, such as age, 
race, creed, color, sex, ancestry, 
or national origin. While we do 
not award suppliers based on 
preferences that would result in 
unfair competitive advantages over 
other suppliers, we are committed 
to actively seeking and engaging 
diverse suppliers to compete for 
opportunities to support CSX.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Over the past several years, human 
rights has become an increasingly 
material issue to CSX and to CSX 
stakeholders. To further advance 
our commitment to upholding 
human rights in our operations, 
businesses, communities, and 
supply chains and to ensure 
compliance with all regulations, we 
are in the process of developing a 
formal CSX Human Rights Policy. 
We expect to release this policy 
later this year. 
HUMAN TRAFFICKING
In January 2020, CSX joined a 
U.S. Department of Transportation 
initiative to fight human trafficking 
through increased education and 
public awareness. 
CSX signed the U.S. DOT 
“Transportation Leaders Against 
Human Trafficking Pledge” 
and committed the company’s 
support to help raise awareness 
and collaboration across the 
transportation sector.
Through its “Put the Brakes on 
Human Trafficking” campaign, the U.S. DOT is enlisting the help 
of the transportation sector to 
combat human trafficking because 
transportation employees are 
often in a position to spot potential 
victims. The agency notes that as 
many as 24.9 million men, women, 
and children are held against their 
will and trafficked, yet the victims 
of human trafficking are often 
hidden in plain sight.
“Identifying the victims is one of 
the most significant challenges 
faced by law enforcement when 
combatting human trafficking,” said 
Sean Douris, CSX chief of police, 
at the initiative’s public launch.  
“Leveraging partnerships like this 
within the transportation sector 
exponentially increases the number 
of eyes that are trained to look for 
those signs and helps reach the 
ultimate goal of eliminating human 
trafficking.”
Key indicators of human trafficking 
include an individual’s physical 
state, demeanor, behavior and 
work conditions.
The Department of Transportation’s 
Transportation Leaders Against 
Human Trafficking initiative is 
comprised of transportation 
and travel industry stakeholders 
working jointly to maximize 
their collective impact. The 
partnership focuses on five key 
areas and connects transportation 
stakeholders to available resources 
on industry leadership; industry 
training and education; policy 
development; public awareness; 
and information sharing and 
analysis.  GovernanceCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  89
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 
In early 2020, we conducted a new materiality 
assessment to identify the environmental, social and 
governance topics of highest priority to CSX and its 
stakeholders. Our process included reviewing multiple 
ESG reporting frameworks and guidelines, such as the 
United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, 
Global Reporting Initiative, Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board and the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures. We also reviewed our 
ESG ratings and rankings; benchmarked 10 peer 
companies; and conducted a media analysis to 
identify 26 potentially material topics. We then 
evaluated topics through surveys of 693 internal and 
external stakeholders, including employees, union 
members, customers, suppliers, investors, nonprofit 
organizations, and others. 
This exercise led to a prioritization of the issues most 
material to our business and stakeholders, which were 
then scored from critical importance to low importance 
and combined into an average score. The results of 
our materiality assessment are displayed in the matrix 
below.
88  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance ReportESG Fundamentals
Identify relevant topics and develop 
measurement criteria.Understand current practices and industry trends, benchmark, and determine topics.
Assess how topics influence 
external stakeholder decisions.Identify relevant stakeholder groups and gather survey feedback.
Assess how topics impact CSX’s 
business.Engage leadership and internal stakeholders through a facilitated workshop and survey.
Report results and seek alignment.
Consolidate results and develop recommendations.1
2
3
4
90  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  91Materiality MatrixESG Fundimentals
CSX Priority Material Topics
The following table defines the 
top 12 material topics, or those 
with an average score above 4.0, 
identified through our materiality 
assessment process. These topics 
are discussed in further detail 
throughout this report based on 
these definitions. Findings of the 2020 materiality 
assessment were relatively 
consistent with our previous 
materiality assessment, conducted 
in 2016. Both assessments 
flagged excellent customer 
service, ethical business conduct, 
and employee and community 
safety as top priority issues. Topic Definition
Delivering excellent 
customer serviceDelivering reliable, responsive, and cost-effective logistical services to CSX’s existing and future customers. 
Ethical business 
conductConducting business in an ethical manner and maintaining controls to prevent corrupt practices such as 
bribery or collusion, as well as maintaining a responsible tax strategy.
Employee and 
community safetyProtecting the safety of CSX’s employees and the communities that reside in the vicinity of our operations 
through the maintenance of effective management systems, training, developing a culture of safety, and 
minimizing disturbances from noise, vibration, and land use in the areas in which we operate.
Hazard management 
and emergency 
preparednessManaging the hazards present in operational processes, including those from goods being transported, by 
maintaining effective controls and critical incident emergency response procedures, and ensuring that employees 
and local first responders are trained in these procedures.
Employee health 
and wellbeingSupporting the holistic wellbeing of CSX’s employees and their ability to perform their roles to their greatest 
capacity by providing the benefits, resources and flexibility to improve their health, care for others and 
manage their work and home lives.
Cyber and 
information securityMaintaining effective cybersecurity infrastructure and data protection controls.
Compliance with 
legislation and 
regulationsManaging compliance with existing and emerging legislation and regulations.
Energy and fuel 
efficiencyManaging energy consumption, fuel use, and greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted through CSX’s operational 
activities by implementing energy, fuel, and GHG management and reduction measures, and providing 
business partners with transport services that enable them to lower their value chain greenhouse gas 
emissions.
Talent managementConducting business in an ethical manner and maintaining controls to prevent corrupt practices such as 
bribery or collusion, as well as maintaining a responsible tax strategy.
Physical securityProtecting the safety of CSX’s employees and the communities that reside in the vicinity of our operations 
through the maintenance of effective management systems, training, developing a culture of safety, and 
minimizing disturbances from noise, vibration, and land use in the areas in which we operate.
Business model 
disruptionAnticipating, managing and responding to disruptive impacts that affect CSX’s strategy, business model, 
and operations. These impacts may include emerging climate-related policy, legal, technological, market, 
or reputational risks, such as changes in customer preferences, and the emergence of new competitors or 
technologies.
Governance and 
risk managementGovernance structure and practices that enable effective oversight of strategy, risk management.Issues that increased significantly 
in importance in the 2020 
assessment include employee 
health and well-being, cyber and 
information security, and fuel 
and energy efficiency. We have 
increased our disclosures on these 
topics in this report. Importance to Stak eholder s
Importance to CSX3.003.00
4.004.00
5.005.00
Delivering Ex cellent
Customer Service Ethical Business 
Conduct
Employee & 
Community  
Safet yEmployee Health & W ellbeing
Cyber & Information 
Securit y
Physical Impacts of Climat e ChangeTalent Management  
Physical Securit y Clean Ai rI nnovatio nBusiness & Model  
Disruptio nCompliance with L egislation & 
Regulations
Community Involvment &  
Philanthr opyGovernance & Risk Management
Accessible & Tr anspar ent Communications
Water Management
Recycling, Reuse & Wa ste Disposal
Labor Right s
Local Economic Impact
Inclusion & Diversity
Supply Chain Management
Human Right s
Biodiversity  Hazard  Management &  
Emer gency Pr eparedness
Envir onmental T opics Social T opics Governance T opicsI
Lobbying & Government RelationsCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  93 92  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance ReportStakeholder Engagement
Each of our stakeholders 
— employees, customers, 
communities, suppliers, investors, 
nonprofit organizations — is 
essential to our business. We 
are committed to engaging 
regularly with our stakeholders 
to understand their views and 
expectations and to best deliver value for each of them over the 
short- and long-term. 
We actively engage with 
stakeholders throughout the year 
using a variety of channels that 
range from informal (e.g., one-on-
one conversations) to formal (e.g., 
materiality survey). We use these to 
both solicit feedback and provide 
relevant updates. In addition to these activities, CSX 
understands our stakeholders are 
interested in specific ESG topics. 
Along with this 2019 ESG Report, 
we make this information available 
through our CDP report and other 
publicly available documents, 
including the CSX annual report 
and proxy statement. Stakeholder Engagement
ESG Fundimentals
Stakeholders Issues of Highest Importance Engagement Channels
Employees Employee and community safety, 
delivering excellent customer service, 
ethical business conduct, cyber and 
information security, energy and fuel 
efficiency Materiality survey, materiality facilitated 
workshop (management and leadership), 
surveys (e.g., safety and culture survey, 
pulse surveys), trainings (e.g., Frontline 
Training Program), Talent and Learning 
Management System, CSX Ethics Helpline, 
business resource groups, company’s intranet 
(Gateway)
Investors Ethical business conduct, governance 
and risk management, accessible and 
transparent communications, compliance 
with legislation and regulations, employee 
and community safetyMateriality survey, quarterly earnings 
conference calls, industry and investment 
community conferences, investor road shows, 
analyst meetings and investor relations 
department outreach
Customers Employee and community safety, 
delivering excellent customer service, 
ethical business conduct, compliance 
with legislation and regulations, 
hazard management and emergency 
preparednessMateriality survey, safety brochures, 
e-business tools, Customer Advisory 
Council, events and trade shows, semi-
annual customer engagement forums, J.D. 
Power surveys, Trip Plan Performance tool, 
individualized business unit outreach, visits 
to customers sites/ headquarters, Chemical 
Safety Excellence Awards
Suppliers Delivering excellent customer service, 
ethical business conduct, compliance with 
legislation and regulations, employee and 
community safety, hazard management 
and emergency preparednessMateriality survey, Customer Service 
Excellence & Partnership awards, 
procurement and supply chain management 
department outreach
Community 
(Residents & 
Nonprofits)Ethical business conduct, community 
involvement and philanthropy, inclusion 
and diversity, employee and community 
safety, employee health and well-beingMateriality survey, annual volunteer safety 
efforts, ongoing communication with Pride in 
Service core partners, community volunteer 
events, CSX’s PSCC hotline
Others 
(Emergency 
responders, 
Union 
members, 
Industry 
associations)Delivering excellent customer service, 
employee health and well-being, cyber 
and information security, employee and 
community safety, water management, 
ethical business conduct, supply chain 
management, human rights Materiality survey, emergency responder 
training, AskRail mobile app, direct 
interactionsCSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  95
 94  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report2019 ESG  
Performance Data
Business & Governance
Safety & Security
Employees
Community Giving and Involvement
Environment
Footnotes
“We strongly believe that
transparent reporting is a key 
component of building strong 
relationships with our stakeholders. 
This ESG report is an important 
part of that transparency, as 
it encourages and informs our 
dialogue with stakeholders on 
how CSX can deliver greater 
societal, environmental and 
financial value.” 
Bill Slater
Head of Investor Relations96  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  97Safety & Security Business & Governance2019 ESG Performance Data
Business & Governance
Data Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016
Total Revenues $ Billions 11.9 12.3 11.4 11.1
Carload Volume by Market (in carloads)
Merchandise # Millions 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.8
Coal # 843,053 886,870 854,942 825,110
Intermodal # Millions 2.7 2.9 2.8 2.8
Supplier Data
Number of suppliers # 4,902 5,277 5,915 5,273
Diverse suppliers1 - spend $ Millions 90.3 60 ~120 148
Diverse suppliers1 - number of 
businesses# 131 151 ~250 ~250
CSX Ethics Helpline
Total cases handled # 1,066 1,091 1,239 1,393
Fraud-related investigations # 41 44 84 100
Ethics Training Participation
Management employees % 100% 100% 100% 100%
Union employees trained % 75% 24% 52% 77%
Capital Expenditures
Total Investment $ Billions 1.7 1.7 2.0 2.7
Cybersecurity
Number of information security 
incidents# 12 10 4 3
Number of information security 
breaches# 0 0 0 0
Additional Metrics
Average locomotives per year # 3,561 3,898 4,166 4,400
Average active trains per day2# 1,848 1,930 2,163 2,345Safety & Security
Data Units 2019 2018 2017 2016
Network Maintenance 
Ties replaced # Millions 3.02 2.66 2.58 2.76
Rail replaced Miles 996 866 914 874
Ballast installed Million tons 2.1 1.9 1.6 1.6
Existing rail surfaced Miles 4,712 4,408 4,098 4,591
Public Safety
Safety train stops # 13 13 9 15
Hazmat Responder training 
provided# 3,353 3,385 3,096 6,844
Closed crossings # 169 155 453 512
Frequency of internal railway 
integrity inspections3# 2.85
Incidents
FRA Personal Injury Rate4Injury Rate 0.89 1.04 1.23 1.05
FRA Train Accident Rate5Accident 
Rate2.32 3.66 3.11 2.82
Work-related fatalities # 2 2 2 0
Fatal trespassing incidents # 72 77 68 74
Non-fatal trespassing incidents # 91 85 85 81
Crossing accidents # 345 356 344 345
Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR)6Incident Rate 0.88 1.01 1.23 1.05
Fatality Rate7% 0.01% 0.01% 0.01% 0.00%
Number of accidents and 
incidents 8# 847 1,018 1,035 1,019
Number of accident releases 
and non-accident releases of 
hazardous material9# 46 56 75 70
Number of FRA Recommended 
Violations10# 613 596 755 588
Number of FRA Recommended 
Defects11# 37,098 33,368 37,072 33,62698  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  992019 ESG Performance Data
Employees
Employees
Data Units 2019 2018 2017 2016 13
Snapshot Data
Total full-time employees # 20,908 22,475 24,006 27,288
Management employees # 3,292 3,427 3,440 4,507
Union employees # 17,146 18,590 20,076 22,270
Subsidiary company employees # 470 458 490 511
Overall retention rate % 92% 91% 87% 90%
Union New Hires
Diverse12% 34% 31% 32% 30%
Female % 4% 2% 3% 4%
Workforce Diversity
Overall Workforce % 20% 20% 20% 21%
Management % 37% 38% 39% 39%
Union % 17% 17% 17% 17%
Female % 5% 6% 6% 6%
Three Generations of our Workforce
Gen X % 68% 66%  65%  63%
Gen Y % 23% 23%  22%  21%
Boomers % 9% 11%  13%  16%
Average Age and Years of Service
Average Age Years 45 45  44  44 
Average years of service Years 14.4 13.9  13.5 13.4 
Management New Hires
Diverse12% 49% 59% 59% 52%
Female % 21% 24% 20% 29%Employees
Data Units 2019 2018 2017 201613
Management Promotions
Diverse12% 39% 40% 36% 42%
Female % 24% 27% 23% 27%
Number of promotions # 472 407  679  389 
% of promotions from union 
workers% 37% 44% 15% 17%
Veteran and Active Duty Military Status
Number of veterans, active duty 
military and first responders# 3,323 3,607  3,738  4,327 
Percent of total workforce % 16% 17% 16% 16%
Employee Reviews
Formal performance reviews for 
management employees# of reviews 3,292 3,427 3,343 2,074
Frequency of formal performance 
reviews for management 
employees# of times 
annually2x/year 2x/year 2x/year 2x/year
Employees by State (does not include empoyees of subsidiary companies)
Alabama # 853 882 904 976
California # 1 1 1 2
Colorado # 0 0 1 0
Connecticut # 2 5 8 8
District of Columbia # 21 26 25 39
Delaware # 41 44 43 50
Florida # 3,274 3,583 3,730 4,220
Georgia # 1,803 1,977 2,184 2,317
Illinois # 502 558 656 835
Indiana # 966 1,118 1,227 1,282
Kansas # 0 0 1 0
Kentucky # 1,100 1,302 1,313 1,353100  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  101Employees continued Community Giving and Involvement2019 ESG Performance Data
Employees
Data Units 2019 2018 2017 2016 13
Louisiana # 90 97 104 115
Maine # 0 0 0 1
Maryland # 818 833 981 1,277
Massachusetts # 200 169 172 174
Michigan # 301 290 312 320
Mississippi # 32 32 28 37
Missouri # 1 1 1 1
New Jersey # 92 104 106 143
New Mexico # 0 0 1 1
New York # 1,426 1,466 1,556 1,776
North Carolina # 605 618 671 868
Ohio # 2,056 2,156 2,373 2,601
Ontario (Canada) # 20 24 26 31
Pennsylvania # 582 667 700 746
Quebec # 16 16 17 21
South Carolina # 536 597 643 764
Tennessee # 954 962 988 1,131
Texas # 3 4 6 5
Virginia # 665 731 705 758
Washington # 0 0 0 3
West Virginia # 877 950 1,006 1,118
Unassigned location # 2,602 2,804 3,027 3,804Community Giving & Involvement
Data Units 2019 2018 2017 2016
Number of states where CSX 
has philanthropic giving# Territories23 states and 
DC23 states and 
DC23 states and 
DC23 states and 
DC
Investment in capital 
expenditures$ Billions 1.7 1.7 2.0 2.7
Investment in capital 
expenditures - used for 
infrastructure improvement $ Billions 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.1 
Total community giving $ Millions 10 10 12 16 
Employee volunteer hours Hours 9,000 7,500 9,800 18,000
Inquiries handled by TellCSX14#20,500 
webforms 
19,000 
emails27,000 
webforms 
12,000 
emails38,000 
webforms 
N/A phone 
calls54,000 
webforms 
21,000 phone 
calls 102  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  103Environment2019 ESG Performance Data
Environment
Data Units 2019 2018 2017 2016 Category
Waste by Type of Disposal Method
Hazardous waste from 
ongoing operations15 Short Tons42 6 12 12 Landfilled
16 20 26 29 Incinerated
19 9 38 35 Recycled
77 35 76 76 Total
Hazardous waste from 
remediation and emergency 
response activities Short Tons4 56 66 53 Landfilled
6 14 15 30 Incinerated
7 5 11 30 Recycled
17 75 92 114 Total
Non-hazardous waste from 
ongoing operations15 16Short Tons44,629 33,363 47,894 42,208 Landfilled
318 407 126 538 Incinerated
1,114 1,340 3,027 1,210Recycled & 
Reuse
46,061 35,109 51,047 43,956 Total
Non-hazardous waste from 
remediation and emergency 
response activities17Short Tons57,705 39,755 89,400 166,524 Landfilled
25 37 341 52 Incinerated
6,879 36,515 193,010 146,596Recycled & 
Reuse
64,609 76,307 282,751 313,172 Total
RecyclingMillion 
Gallons1.34 1.83 2.41 2.57 Used oil
Short Tons 407 367 390 290 Batteries
Short Tons 159,460 157,306 326,428 205,695 Steel
# Millions 2.64 2.25 2.11 3.00 Crossties
Short Tons 34,617 92,993 32,831 94,577 Asphalt
Short Tons 32,905 12,957 18,258 1,270 ConcreteEnvironment
Data Units 2019 2018 2017 2016
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Direct (Scope 1) GHG 
emissions18Metric tons 
CO2 Eq4,309,317 4,648,738 4,706,707 4,774,800
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions19Metric tons 
CO2 Eq195,606 204,678 220,696 229,217
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 
emissionsMetric tons 
CO2 Eq182,629 153,924 181,414 301,169
GHG emissions intensity for 
SBT20Metric Tons 
CO2 Eq/
MGTM10.80 11.23 11.49 11.55
Reduction of GHG emissions for 
SBT21% Reduction -10.8% -7.2% -5% -4.6%
Emissions of ozone-depleting 
substances (ODS)Metric tons 0.09 0.10 0.17 0.17
Other Significant GHG
Nitrogen Oxide (NOX) 22Metric Tons 44,813 52,175 55,295 71,967
Sulfur Oxide (SOX)22Metric Tons 52 56 55 866
Carbon Dioxide (CO2)23Metric Tons 4,578,540 4,932,045 5,010,068 5,121,387
Methane (CH4)24Metric Tons 505 538 550 572
Nitrous Oxide (N2O)25Metric Tons 113 121 122 125
Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) Metric Tons 0.12 0.12 0.11 0.16
Volatile Organic Compounds 
(VOC) 26Metric Tons 1,926 2,333 2,545Not 
Calculated
Carbon Monoxide (CO) 26Metric Tons 11,919 12,844 12,961Not 
Calculated
Particulate Matter (PM) 26Metric Tons 1,307 1,517 1,629Not 
Calculated104  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  105Environment continued2019 ESG Performance Data
Environment
Data Units 2019 2018 2017 2016 Category
Energy Consumption
Energy consumption within 
CSX27MMBTU55,621,655 60,193,226 60,755,242 62,962,063 Diesel
1,028,332 1,026,510 983,655 1,022,408 Gasoline
550,684 540,418 783,393 457,954 Natural Gas
398,632 357,025 437,526 174,859 Propane
42,416 39,771 39,454 32,991 Jet Fuel
16,090 22,394 34,120 32,339 Used Oil
57,657,809 62,179,344 63,033,390 64,682,614Total Direct 
Consumption
Energy consumption outside 
CSX28MMBTU 1,550,239 1,497,678 1,486,022 1,549,209
Energy Efficiency
Energy Intensity29MMBTU/
MRTM297 305 310 319
Fuel Efficiency30RTM/gal 508 492 488 474Environment
Data Units 2019 2018 2017 2016 Category
Fuel Use by Type
Indirect Energy Consumption Gigajoules 1,635,657 1,580,198 1,567,901 1,634,090 Electricity
Direct Fuel Usage Gigajoules59,291,134 64,164,301 64,763,394 66,607,953 Diesel
1,124,647 1,122,654 1,075,786 1,078,698 Gasoline
44,678 41,892 41,558 34,751 Jet Fuel
580,864 570,035 826,326 483,051 Natural Gas
439,768 393,867 482,675 193,078 Propane
17,151 23,871 36,831 34,335 Used Oil
61,498,242 66,316,621 67,226,570 68,431,866Total Direct 
Fuel Usage
Water
Water withdrawal by source31 Kgal 479,490 486,466 2,000,790 1,199,491106  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  10701 Diverse spend is defined as the amount, in dollars, spent with suppliers that are small, minority-owned or women-owned 
businesses.              
 
02 Average active trains per day excludes passenger and foreign trains.        
        
03 Frequency of internal railway integrity inspections is the number of inspections per week, weighted for the number of main 
track miles on which those inspections took place. Calculated as (weekly inspections × miles of track on which they took 
place) / (total main track miles)             
   
04 FRA Personal Injury Rate calculated as cases / 200,000 employee hours. Safety statistics are estimated and continue to be 
updated as actuals settle.            
   
05 FRA Train Accident Rate tracks FRA reportable train accidents per million train miles. Safety statistics are estimated and
 continue to be updated as actuals settle.           
   
06 Rate of work-related injuries and illnesses. An injury or illness is considered a recordable incident if it results in any of the 
following: death, days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of 
consciousness. Additionally, a significant injury or illness diagnosed by a physician or other licensed health care professional 
is considered a recordable incident, even if it does not result in death, days away from work, restricted work or job transfer, 
medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness.         
       
07 Fatality Rate is the rate of work-related fatalities / total number of full-time employees.      
         
08 Number of accidents and incidents (combined) is any impact between railroad on-track equipment and a highway user at 
crossings. It includes any collision, derailment, fire, or other events involving the operation of railroad on-track equipment that 
results in reportable damage above thresholds established in 49 CRR 225.5; other incidents or exposures that result in fatality 
or injury to any person, or result in occupational illness of a railroad employee.      
         
09 Number of accident releases and non-accident releases of hazardous material is the unintentional release of a hazardous 
material while in transportation, including loading and unloading while in railroad possession that is not caused by derailment, 
collision, or other rail-related accidents.            
    
10 Number of violations resulting from the U.S. FRA or state inspections or audits. Violations include any safety-related issue 
including those related to accident reporting, grade-crossing signal safety, hazardous material regulations, industrial hygiene, 
motive power and equipment (e.g., freight car safety, locomotive safety, and passenger equipment safety), railroad operating 
practices (e.g., alcohol and drug use, hours of service laws, communications, and operating practices), signal system safety 
and track safety. Includes violation defects that both did and did not result in civil penalties.      
          
11 Number of defects resulting from the U.S. FRA or state inspections or audits. Defects include any safety-related issue including 
those related to accident reporting, grade-crossing signal safety, hazardous material regulations, industrial hygiene, motive 
power and equipment (e.g., freight car safety, locomotive safety, and passenger equipment safety), railroad operating practices 
(e.g., alcohol and drug use, hours of services laws, communications, and operating practices), signal system safety and track 
safety. Includes violation defects that both did and did not result in civil penalties.       
         
12 Diverse workforce is defined by CSX as males of color and all females.
13 2016 employee data has been updated from previously reported information.      
14 Inquiries handled by TellCSX, CSX’s contact hub for non-emergency issues.      
15 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste from ongoing operations values have been corrected from the 2018 CSR data 
supplement report because LEADS data was reported in the wrong location in 2018 and has now been corrected. LEADS data 
will be reported with non-hazardous ongoing operations waste data moving forward.      
        
16 Non-hazardous waste from ongoing operations in 2016-2018 was recalculated to include recycled and reuse waste.  
             
17 Non-hazardous waste from remediation and emergency response activities in 2016-2018 was recalculated to include recycled 
and reuse waste.              
  
18 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions data corrected from the 2018 CSR data supplement report due to change in utility 
management vendors and their calculation methodology. The increase reflects corrected natural gas usage.    
            
19 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions data corrected from the 2018 CSR data supplement report due to change in utility 
management vendors and their calculation methodology. This increase is due to the increase in corrected electricity usage. 
              
20 GHG emissions intensity in line with science based target goal set in 2020. A gross ton mile (GTM) represents the movement of 
one ton of train weight one mile. GTMs are calculated by multiplying total train weight by the distance the train moved.   
             
21 Reduction of GHG emissions based on 2014 value of 12.1 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per MGTM.   
        
22 Nitrogen Oxide and Sulfur Oxide values for 2017 and 2018 were recalculated to account for new emission factors in 2017 
through December 31, 2019 that now includes values reported from stationary source.      
          
23 Carbon Dioxide data has been corrected due to recalculated increase in Scope 1 and 2 emissions.     
           
24 Methane data has been corrected due to recalculated increase in Scope 1 and 2 emissions.      
          
25 Nitrous Oxide data has been corrected due to recalculated increase in Scope 1 and 2 emissions.     
           
26 Volatile Organic Compounds, Carbon Monoxide and Particulate Matter values are newly calculated and reported using data 
from the corresponding inventory year.           
    
27 Natural gas data has been corrected from the 2018 CSR data supplement report due to change in utility management vendors 
and their calculation methodology. Reported usage increased from 3,310,435 therms (349,186 GJ) to 5,404,183 therms 
(570,035 GJ).              
 
28 Energy consumption outside CSX data has been corrected from the 2018 CSR data supplement report due to change in utility 
management vendors and their calculation methodology. Reported usage increased from 309,402 MWh to 438,944 MWh.  
             
29 Energy intensity data has been corrected due to the increase in natural gas and electricity usage (MMBTUs).    
            
30 Revenue ton mile (RTM) is calculated by multiplying the miles traveled on each leg by the number of tons of revenue traffic 
carried on that leg.             
  
31 Water withdrawal data has been corrected from the 2018 CSR data supplement report due to change in utility management 
vendors and their calculation methodology.  Footnotes2019 ESG Performance Data108  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  109GRI Standard Disclosure # Response/Location Information
GRI 102: General 
DisclosuresOrganization Profile
102-1: Name of the 
organizationCSX Corporation
102-2: Activities, brands, 
products, and servicesCSX, a Class I railroad, is one of the nation’s leading 
transportation suppliers. The company’s rail and 
intermodal businesses provide rail-based transportation 
services including traditional rail service and the 
transport of intermodal containers and trailers. All of the 
information contained in this report is fully representative 
of the company’s principal operating subsidiary, CSX 
Transportation, as well as its other subsidiaries, including: 
CSX Intermodal Terminals, Inc. (CSX Intermodal 
Terminals); Total Distribution Services, Inc. (TDSI); 
Transflo Terminal Services, Inc. (TRANSFLO); and CSX 
Technology, Inc. (CSX Technology).
102-3: Location of 
headquartersJacksonville, FL
102-4: Location of operations The company operates in two countries: the United 
States and Canada.
102-5: Ownership and legal 
formCSX is a publicly traded company, incorporated in 
Virginia. CSX’s common stock is listed on the Nasdaq 
Global Select Market. The official trading symbol is 
“CSX.”
102-6: Markets served About CSX, p. 8-9; CSX 2020 10-K, p. 3, 12-14 for 
revenue and volume by market served. 
102-7: Scale of the 
organizationCSX recorded $11.9 billion in revenue in 2019. CSX 
serves three primary lines of business: merchandise, coal 
and intermodal. During 2019, the merchandise business 
shipped 2.7 million carloads (43 percent of volume), 
the coal business shipped 843 thousand carloads (14 
percent of volume), and the intermodal business moved 
2.7 million units (43 percent of volume). 
 
More information is available at About CSX, p. 8-9.
102-8: Information on 
employees and other workersPeople: The CSX Workforce, p. 58
102-9: Supply chain Governance: Responsible Sourcing, p. 86102-10: Significant changes to 
the organization and its supply 
chainOver the past three years, CSX Corporation’s operating 
model has undergone a transformation to improve 
efficiency throughout the organization and the supply 
chain. For more, please see The Future of Freight, p. 
16-19. CSX also utilizes a Supplier Diversity Program, 
Governance: Responsible Sourcing, p. 86, which 
encourages diversity throughout the supply chain. 
102-11: Precautionary principle 
or approachGovernance: Risk Management and Business Disruption 
Prevention, p. 84
102-12: External initiatives Governance: Business Ethics, p. 84 and Code of Ethics 
Safety: Community Safety, p. 44 
Environment, p. 46
102-13: Membership of 
associationsCommunities, p. 68-79
Strategy
102-14: Statement from senior 
decision-makerCEO Letter , p. 2-5
102-15: Key impacts, risks, 
and opportunitiesESG Fundamentals, p. 88-93; Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index, p. 120-123
Ethics and integrity
102-16: Values, principles, 
standards, and norms of 
behaviorsThe Future of Freight: Our Guiding Principles, p. 18
102-17: Mechanism for advice 
and concerns about ethicsGovernance: Business Ethics, p. 84 and Code of Ethics
Governance
102-18: Governance structure CSX discloses its governance structure in the 2020 
Annual Proxy Statement
102-19: Delegating authority CSX discloses its governance structure in the 2020 
Annual Proxy Statement
102-20: Executive-level 
responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social 
topicsESG at CSX, p. 12
102-21: Consulting 
stakeholders on economic, 
environmental and social 
topicsESG Fundamentals: Stakeholder Engagement, p.92- 93GRI Standards Index2019 ESG Performance Data110  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  111Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder 
groupsESG Fundamentals: Stakeholder Engagement, p. 92-93
102-41 Collective bargaining 
agreementsThere are 13 different union organizations with whom 
CSX conducts business. Additionally, 84% percent 
of CSX’s overall workforce are covered by one of the 
company’s many collective bargaining agreements. 
102-42 Identifying and 
selecting stakeholdersESG Fundamentals: Stakeholder Engagement, p. 92-93
102-43 Approach to 
stakeholder engagement ESG Fundamentals: Stakeholder Engagement, p. 92-93
102-44 Key topics and 
concerns raised through 
stakeholder engagement 
around the reportESG Fundamentals: Stakeholder Engagement, p. 92-93
Reporting Practices
102-45 Entities included 
in consolidated financial 
statementsIn addition to CSX, the Company’s subsidiaries include 
CSX Intermodal Terminals, Total Distribution Services, 
Transflo Terminal Services, CSX Technology, and other 
subsidiaries. CSX Corporation’s public filings account for 
these subsidiaries and holdings.
102-46 Process for defining 
report content and boundariesESG at CSX, p. 15
102-47 List of material topics ESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
102-48 Restatements of 
information2018 data restatements are included in the footnotes as 
part of the 2019 ESG Performance Data tables
102-49 Changes in reporting ESG at CSX: Our ESG Priorities, p. 14
102-50 Reporting period ESG at CSX: About this Report, p. 15
102-51 Date of most recent 
previous report (if any).CSX’s most recent Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report was published on June 2nd, 2017. A data 
supplement was published on May 30th, 2019.
102-52 Reporting cycle This report documents CSX’s activities and impact in 
calendar year 2019.
102-53 Contact point for 
questions regarding the report ESG at CSX: About this Report, p. 15
102-54 Claims of reporting 
in accordance with the GRI 
Standards ESG at CSX: About this Report, p. 15
102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Standards Index, p. 108-116
102-56 External Assurance ESG Fundamentals, p. 88; Appendix: Statement of 
Verification, p. 124Economic
GRI 201: Economic 
PerformanceNon-material Economic Topics
201-1: Direct economic value 
generated and distributed2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 96
201-2: Financial implications 
and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate 
changeIn addition the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) Index, p. 120-123, CSX makes this 
information available through our CDP report submission. 
Environmental
Materials (301)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
GRI 301: Materials 301-1: Materials used by 
weight or volume2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 96-105
Energy (302)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption 
within the organization2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 104
302-2 Energy consumption 
outside of the organizationCSX does not currently track energy consumption 
beyond the scope of our organization.
302-3: Energy intensity 2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 104
302-4: Reduction in energy 
consumption2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 103
Water and Effluents (303)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 462019 ESG Performance Data112  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  113GRI 303: Water and 
Effluents303-1 Interactions with water as 
a shared resourceEnvironment: Water Management, p. 54
303-2 Management of water 
discharge-related impactsEnvironment: Water Management, p. 54
303-3: Water withdrawal 2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 105
303-5: Water consumption Environment: Water Management, p. 54
Emissions (305)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 
Emissions2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 103
305-2 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) 
GHG Emissions2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 103
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 
GHG emissions2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 103
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 103
305-5 Reduction of GHG 
Emissions2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 103
305-6 Emissions of ozone-
depleting substances (ODS)2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 103
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), 
sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 
significant air emissions2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 103
Effluents and Waste (306)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
GRI 306: Effluents 
and Waste306-2 Waste by type and 
disposal method2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 102
306-4 Transport of hazardous 
waste2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 102Environmental Compliance (307)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p.90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachEnvironment: Our Approach, p. 46
GRI 307: 
Environmental 
Compliance307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and 
regulationsEnvironment: Compliance, p. 492019 ESG Performance Data114  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  115Social
Employment (401)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsPeople: Our Approach, p. 56
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachPeople: Our Approach, p. 56
GRI 401: 
Employment401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnoverPeople: Our Approach, p. 56 
2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 98-99
401-2 Benefits provided to 
full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-
time employeesPeople: Employee Health & Wellbeing, p. 60 
2020 Benefits Summary Page
401-3 Parental leave People: Employee Health & Wellbeing, p. 60 
2020 Benefits Summary Page
Occupational Health and Safety (403)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsSafety: Our Approach, p. 32
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachSafety: Our Approach, p. 32
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety403-1 Occupational health and 
safety management systemSafety: Our Approach, p. 32
403-2 Hazard identification, 
risk assessment, and incident 
investigationSafety: Our Approach, p. 32
403-3 Occupational health 
servicesPeople: Employee Health & Wellbeing, p. 60 
2020 Benefits Summary Page
403-4 Worker participation, 
consultation, and 
communication on occupational 
health and safetySafety: Our Approach, p. 32 
People: Training in Action, p. 61
403-5 Worker training on 
occupational health and safetySafety: Our Approach, p. 32 
People: Training in Action, p. 61403-6 Promotion of worker 
healthPeople: Employee Health & Wellbeing, p. 60
403-7 Prevention and 
mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business 
relationshipsSafety: Our Approach, p. 32
403-8 Workers covered by an 
occupational health and safety 
management system2020 Benefits Summary Page
403-9 Work-related injuries 2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 97
Training and Education (404)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsPeople: Our Approach, p. 56
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachPeople: Our Approach, p. 56
GRI 404: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety404-1 Average hours of training 
per year per employee2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 96-97
404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programsSafety, p. 35 
People: Talent Development and Training in Action,  
p. 60-61
404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance 
and career development 
reviewsSafety, p. 35 
People: Talent Development and Training in Action,  
p. 60-61
Diversity and Equal Opportunity (405)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsPeople: Our Approach, p. 56
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachPeople: Our Approach, p. 56
GRI 405: Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employeesPeople: Our Approach, p. 56 
2019 ESG Performance Data tables, p. 98-1002019 ESG Performance Data116  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  117Local Communities (413)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsCommunities: Our Approach, p. 68
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachCommunities: Our Approach, p. 68
GRI 413: Local 
Communities413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and 
development programsCommunities: Our Approach, p. 68 
Safety: Community Safety, p. 44
413-2 Operations with 
significant actual and potential 
negative impacts on local 
communitiesCommunities: Our Approach, p. 68 
Safety: Community Safety, p. 44
Customer Health and Safety (415)
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach103-1: Explanation of material 
topic and its BoundaryESG Fundamentals, p. 90-91
103-2: Management approach 
and its componentsSafety: Customer Collaboration, p. 44
103-3: Evaluation of 
management approachSafety: Customer Collaboration, p. 44
GRI 416: Customer 
Health and Safety416-1 Assessment of the health 
and safety impacts of product 
and service categoriesSafety: Customer Collaboration, p. 44
416-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning the 
health 
and safety impacts of products 
and servicesSafety: Customer Collaboration, p. 44
Customer Privacy (418)
GRI 418: Customer 
Privacy418-1: Substantiated 
complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy 
and losses of customer dataGovernance: Cyber and Information Security 
Management, p. 85-86. No breaches were recorded in 
2019. 2019 ESG Performance Data118  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  119Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index 
The following table provides the locations of information addressing the requirements of the SASB Rail 
Transportation Standard, which maps industry-specific disclosures for ESG issues. 
Table 1: Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics
Disclosure Accounting Metric Location
Greenhouse Gas  
Emissions110a.1 Global Scope 1 emissions 2019 ESG Report (ESG Performance Data 
Tables, Environment, p. 103)
110a.2 Discussion of long-term 
and short-term strategy or plan to 
manage Scope 1 emissions, emis-
sions reduction targets, and an 
analysis of performance against 
those targetsLatest CDP Climate Change Response
2019 ESG Report (Environment, p. 46-55)
110a.3 Total fuel consumed, per -
centage renewable2019 ESG Report (ESG Performance Data 
Tables, Environment, p. 102-105)
2019 ESG Report (Environment, p. 48)
Air Quality 120a.1 Air emissions of the follow-
ing pollutants: (1) NOx (excluding 
N2O) and (2) particulate matter2019 ESG Report (ESG Performance Data 
Tables, Environment, p. 103)
Employee Health & Safety 320a.1 (1) Total recordable inci-
dent rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, 
and (3) near miss frequency rate 
(NMFR)2019 ESG Report (ESG Performance Data 
Tables, Safety, p. 97)
Competitive Behavior 520a.1 Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal pro-
ceedings associated with anti-
competitive behavior regulationsIn 2019, CSX wasn’t subject to any monetary 
losses as a result of legal proceedings associ-
ated with anticompetitive behavior regulations
Accident & Safety Man-
agement540a.1 Number of accidents and 
incidents2019 ESG Report (ESG Performance Data 
Tables, Safety, p. 97)
540a.2 Number of (1) accident 
releases and (2) non-accident 
releases2019 ESG Report (ESG Performance Data 
Tables, Safety, p. 97)
540a.3 Number of Federal Rail-
road Administration (FRA) Recom-
mended Violation Defects2019 ESG Report (ESG Performance Data 
Tables, Safety, p. 97)
540a.4 Frequency of internal rail-
way integrity inspections2019 ESG Report (ESG Performance Data 
Tables, Safety, p. 97)Table 2: Activity Metrics
Disclosure Location
000.A Number of carloads transported 2019 Annual Report (10-K p. 4)
2019 ESG Report (About CSX, p. 9)
000.B Number of intermodal units transported 2019 Annual Report (10-K p. 4)
2019 ESG Report (About CSX, p. 9)
000.C Track miles 2019 Annual Report (10-K p. 12) 
2019 ESG Report (About CSX, p. 9)
000.D Revenue Ton Miles (RTM) 2019 Annual Report (10-K p. 31)
000.E Number of Employees 2019 Annual Report (10-K p. 4) 
2019 ESG Report (About CSX, p. 9)2019 ESG Performance Data120  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  121Strategy a) Describe the cli-
mate-related risks and 
opportunities the orga-
nization has identified 
over the short, medi-
um, and long termLatest CDP 
Climate Change 
Response   
(C2.1, C2.2, C2.3 
& C2.4)
2019 Annual  
Report 
(10-K pg. 9)CSX’s operations and financial results could be 
negatively impacted by climate change and regu-
latory and legislative responses to climate change. 
Risks identified in the short-term (0-3 years) include 
increased severity of extreme weather events such 
as cyclones or floods and uncertainty in market 
signals and global economic conditions that could 
negatively affect demand for commodities and 
other freight. Risks identified in the long-term (10-30 
years) include costs to transition to lower emissions 
technology. 
CSX has also identified climate-related opportuni-
ties with the potential to have a substantive financial 
or strategic impact on our business. Opportuni-
ties identified in the short-term (0-3 years) include 
access to new markets and customers, as well as 
participation in renewable energy programs and 
adoption of energy-efficient measures. 
b) Describe the impact 
of climate-related risks 
and opportunities on 
the organization’s 
businesses, strategy, 
and financial planningLatest CDP 
Climate Change 
Response   
(C2.3a, C2.4a & 
C2.5)
2019 Annual 
Report  
(10-K pg. 9)The identified risks and opportunities have af-
fected CSX’s operations, products and services, 
supply chain, adaptation and mitigation activities, 
and investment in R&D. For example, air pollution 
limits are affecting both CSX’s customers and the 
rail industry. As a result, we are working to adjust 
our business plan to respond to the declining coal 
market. 
c) Describe the resil-
ience of the organiza-
tion’s strategy, taking 
into consideration 
different climate-relat-
ed scenarios, includ-
ing a 2 degree or lower 
scenarioLatest CDP 
Climate Change 
Response   
(C3.1d)
2019 ESG Report 
(Environment,  
p. 46-55) CSX applies an internal methodology to evaluate 
potential climate change scenarios and other types 
of disruption that may impact operations and safety, 
which is used to plan for business continuity. As 
part of that process, both short- and long-term im-
pacts are considered, and action is taken. 
CSX has established a new emission intensity 
reduction goal approved by the Science Based 
Target Initiative, which is consistent with reductions 
required to keep warming to well-below 2°C.Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Index 
The following table summarizes specific information that addresses the requirements of the TCFD and maps 
where it is referenced, either in this report or other publicly available materials. This is a first step in our application 
of the TCFD recommendations. We are actively leveraging these recommendations to improve our approach to 
climate risk management, and we plan to further enhance our climate-related disclosures in our future reporting. 
Core  
ElementsTCFD Disclosure  
RecommendationCSX Disclosure 
SourceCSX Disclosure Brief Reference 
[full answers can be found in disclosure sources]
Governance a) Describe the 
board’s oversight of 
climate-related risks 
and opportunitiesLatest CDP 
Climate Change 
Response  
(C1.1)The Audit Committee of the Board has responsibility 
for risk oversight and evaluation of climate-related 
issues, including risks associated with energy and 
environmental policy. All business risks, including 
climate risks, are presented to the Board for con-
sideration and are a scheduled agenda item at all 
meetings. We integrate climate-related issues when 
reviewing and guiding strategy, major plans of 
action, risk management policies, annual budgets, 
business plans, performance objectives, major cap-
ital expenditures, acquisitions and divestitures, and 
progress against goals and targets. The Board also 
monitors and oversees progress against goals and 
targets for addressing climate-related issues.  
b) Describe manage-
ment’s role in assess-
ing and managing 
climate-related risks 
and opportunitiesLatest CDP 
Climate Change 
Response 
(C1.2)The executive vice president and chief legal officer 
is responsible for both assessing and managing cli-
mate-related risks and opportunities and reports to 
the Board on climate-related issues on a quarterly 
basis. The EVP/CLO has ultimate responsibility for 
the Public Safety, Health, and Environment (PSH&E) 
department, which consists of environmental 
professionals competent in environmental policy, 
performance, management, and associated risks. 2019 ESG Performance Data122  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  123Metrics and 
Targetsa) Disclose the met-
rics used by the 
organization to assess 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities in 
line with its strategy 
and risk management 
processLatest CDP 
Climate Change 
Response 
(C-TS8.4, C1.3a & 
C11)To track and assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities, CSX uses various metrics, including 
GHG emissions, avoided emissions, and freight haul 
efficiency. To further incentivize the achievement of 
climate-related goals, CSX also uses climate-relat-
ed performance metrics that are incorporated into 
the company’s remuneration policies for our Chief 
Operating Officer and others with direct responsi-
bility for improving efficiency. CSX does not use an 
internal price on carbon, but we anticipate doing so 
in the next several years. 
b) Disclose Scope 
1, Scope 2, and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, and the 
related risks2019 ESG Report 
(ESG Performance 
Data Tables,  
p. 102-105)
Latest CDP 
Climate Change 
Response 
(C6.1, C6.2)CSX Annual Scope 1, 2, 3 GHG Emissions (1,000 
metric tons CO2e)
Scope 1: 4,309 metric tons CO2e
Scope 2: 196 metric tons CO2e
Scope 3: 183 metric tons CO2e
Our methodology includes tracking emission factors 
for purchased electricity and market-based electric-
ity, and making estimations using the WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol Scope 3 Evaluator Tool. 
c) Describe the targets 
used by the orga-
nization to manage 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities and 
performance against 
targets2019 ESG Report 
(Environment,  
p. 46-55)As approved by the Science Based Targets initia-
tive (SBTi), CSX has set a GHG intensity emissions 
target to reduce GHG emissions by 37.3% by 2030, 
using a 2014 baseline. 
In 2012, we set a series of environmental goals 
to achieve by the end of 2020. We are on track to 
achieve these goals by the end of the year, and 
have already achieved the following goals:
•	Reduce GHG emissions intensity by 6-8%
•	Reduce quantity of water consumed and 
improve the quality of effluent water
•	Continue to elevate sustainable standards 
of constructionCore  
ElementsTCFD Disclosure  
RecommendationCSX Disclosure 
SourceCSX Disclosure Brief Reference  
[full answers can be found in disclosure sources]
Risk  
Manage-
menta) Describe the orga-
nization’s processes 
for identifying and 
assessing climate-re-
lated risksLatest CDP 
Climate Change 
Response 
(C2.2b)
2019 Annual 
Report  
(10-K pg. 9)
2019 ESG Report 
(ESG Fundamen-
tals,  
p. 88-93)CSX business leaders identify and assess cli-
mate-related risks by taking a long-term view and 
focusing on how the potential effects of climate 
change could affect infrastructure and ability to 
operate the business. At a company level, CSX uses 
a business risk management (BRM) process to iden-
tify, prioritize, and assess risks, including climate-re-
lated risks, that have the potential to affect busi-
ness strategy. For each identified risk (unmitigated 
and mitigated), a ranking is provided ranging from 
Severe (worst-case) to Limited based on financial, 
operational, and reputational impacts; the likelihood 
of occurring; and the speed with which the impact 
could occur. 
Additionally, to identify and prioritize material 
issues, including climate-related, we conducted a 
2020 materiality assessment, which led to the prior -
itization of the issues more material to our business 
and stakeholders.
b) Describe the organi-
zation’s processes for 
managing climate-re-
lated risksLatest CDP 
Climate Change 
Response 
(C2.2d)As part of our BRM process, key business leaders 
own each process and report to an Executive Risk 
Committee, which is responsible for elevating dis-
cussion of BRM risks to the executive team. Busi-
ness risk factors are identified, discussed during 
Board meetings, and described in the company’s 
Annual Report. 
For example, to mitigate the physical risk of ex-
treme weather, CSX has established comprehensive 
business continuity plans. CSX is also constantly 
investing in infrastructure. 
c) Describe how pro-
cesses for identifying, 
assessing, and man-
aging climate-related 
risks are integrated 
into the organization’s 
overall risk manage-
mentLatest CDP 
Climate Change 
Response   
(C1.2a, C2.2 
C2.31)Climate-related risks are integrated into multi-dis-
ciplinary company-wide risk identification, assess-
ment, and management process. The company’s 
approach for risk management focuses on activities 
that the company controls, as well as those out-
side the company’s control. Throughout 2019, CSX 
identified and reviewed risk factors that could have 
a material effect on the company, including environ-
mental law & regulation, costs to transition to lower 
emissions technology and increased severity of ex-
treme weather events such as cyclones and floods.  2019 ESG Performance Data124  CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report CSX 2019 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report  125Appendix: Statement of Verification
7.1 Scope
Jacobs performed a verification of CSX’s 2019 GHG Emission Inventory to determine if a reasonable level of 
assurance could be provided. CSX’s management is responsible for the collection and presentation of the 
information within the 2019 Emissions Inventory. Jacobs’ responsibility is to express a conclusion as to whether 
anything has been identified to suggest that the reported Emission Inventory is not presented fairly in accordance 
with referenced GHG accounting principles and associated guidance documents.
7.2 Methodology
Our verification review was completed in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2019 section 6. As such, Jacobs planned 
and performed the verification activities in order to provide a reasonable assurance with respect to GHG emission 
intensity information reviewed.
7.3 GHG Assertions
CSX asserts that their total annual Scope 1, Scope 2, and listed Scope 3 emissions for the 2019 reporting period 
(exclusive of purchased goods and services and capital goods) is 4,687,474 metric tonnes CO2e.
7.4 Conclusion
Based on the verification review conducted, the GHG Scope 1, Scope 2, and listed Scope 3 (exclusive of 
purchased goods and services and capital goods) assertions in CSX’s 2019 Emissions Inventory are materially 
correct and presented fairly in accordance with stated criteria.
Jacobs
Stephanie McMackin, P.E. (OH, KY, WV, SC)
Senior Reviewer
Cincinnati, Ohio
June 11, 20202019 ESG Performance DataCSX Corporate Headquarters
500 WATER ST., J275
JACKSONVILLE, FL 32202
WWW.CSX.COM
Contact
ESG@CSX.com