Sustainability ReportNovember, 2003
ContentVision and Strategy1Profile3Governance Structure and Management Systems6Commitment to Stakeholders11Performance Indicators12Economic Performance Indicators13Environmental Performance Indicators15Cummins Products15Cummins Facilities23Social Performance Indicators33Diversity37Contact Information39
IntegrityCummins Inc.has a strong commitment to developing business solutions and products thatmeet the needs of our customers. We also focus on providing value to our many stakeholders– shareholders, employees, business partners, suppliers, vendors and the communities inwhich we live and work.  We do this while operating under a set of values that emphasize integrity, innovation, delivering superiorresults, corporate responsibility, diversity and global involvement.We are pleased to provide insight into many aspects of Cummins and its operations in this, our first,Sustainability Report. The goal of this report is to engage stakeholders in examining Cummins culture,practices and performance across a number of measures and to serve as a foundation on which to buildfuture, more detailed reports.We have particularly emphasized the strong responsibility we feel to ensure that our manufacturingprocesses and the facilities in which we conduct our business adhere to policies and procedures thatprotect and preserve the environment.The information in this report is presented in the spirit of the guidelines set by the Global ReportingInitiative (GRI). The aim of the GRI is to develop a consistent way for companies around the world tovoluntarily report on the economic, environmental and social components of their business. We have notattempted to include every measure suggested by the GRI, but rather those measures that we believeare most important to our business. Our goal is to continuously improve our reporting mechanisms toensure even greater transparency.We are proud of the positive impact Cummins products and the people who manufacture them have hadon our society.We look forward to the opportunity to make a difference, not just today but for futuregenerations as well.Tim SolsoChairman and Chief Executive OfficerCummins Inc.
Vision and StrategyOur VisionMaking people’s lives better by unleashing the power of Cummins.That simple, yet ambitious, statement serves as the guiding vision for Cummins Inc. and our nearly24,000 employees. We take pride in manufacturing engines, generators, filters, turbochargers and related products that serve the varied needs of our customers worldwide. To do that, we unleash the power of our employees: Their energy and commitment make it possible for us to maintain a leadership position in the marketswe serve.We also recognize that with our role as a corporate leader comes a responsibility to help improve thecommunities in which we work and live. It is a responsibility we bring to life through our actions and the activities of our employees. Accordingly, our corporate mission and values reflect our desire to return value to our customers,employees, shareholders and communities:Our Mission•To motivate people to act like owners working together•To exceed customers’expectations by always being first to market with the best products•To partner with our customers to ensure their success•To demand that everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment•To create wealth for all our stakeholders.Our Values•Integrity:We strive to do what is right and do what we say we will do.•Innovation:We will apply the creative ingenuity necessary to make us better, faster, first.•Delivering Superior Results: Our goal is to consistently exceed expectations.•Corporate Responsibility:We will serve and improve the communities in which we live.•Diversity:We embrace the diverse perspectives of all people and honor them with both dignity and respect.•Global involvement:We seek a world view and to act without boundaries.Our StrategyCentral to our business is a four-pronged strategic approach that we began to emphasize in 2000. The approach focuses on the following:•Being a low-cost producer in as many of our markets as possibleNearly all of our markets compete on price. To be successful we must offer the best products at the bestprices. To do that, we continually scrutinize our business looking for cost savings. Our Six Sigma quality program, launched in January 2000, does that for us. Since its inception, morethan 1,600 completed Six Sigma projects have resulted in more than $400 million in savings to theCompany, while infusing quality as a critical measure into every process. More than 1,400 “belts” havebeen trained in Six Sigma tools.
1• Expanding into related marketsIn our world, expansion doesn’t merely mean entering new businesses, but also leveraging our existingassets and capabilities and reaching into related businesses with more favorable dynamics. Our focus ison businesses that complement our more capital-intensive and cyclical core businesses. Examplesinclude the creation in 2002 of our International Distributor Business and Emission Solutions, anaftertreatment venture of our Filtration Business.• Maximizing return on investmentWe have shifted our emphasis from revenue growth toward earnings and return on investment (ROI) inthe past few years. Our principle measurements for (ROI) are return on equity and return on net assets,and we set aggressive targets for each measurement.• Leveraging complementary capabilitiesIn c re a s i n g l y, we look for ways to standard i ze our pro c e d u res, technologies and services to reduce operatingcosts and increase our operating efficiency.
2ProfileCummins roots are planted in soil nourished by innovation, persistence and a commitment to community.Founded in Columbus, Ind., in 1919 as Cummins Engine Company, for its namesake Clessie Lyle Cummins,the fledgling firm was among the first to see the commercial potential of an unproven engine technologyinvented two decades earlier by Rudolph Diesel.To d a y, Cummins is no longer just an engine business, but a global leader with nearly $6 billion in annualsales. We are a family of four interrelated, yet diversified businesses that create or enhance value as aresult of doing business with each other or having those relationships. These four businesses are the Engine Business, Power Generation, Filtration and Other and ourInternational Distributor Business. They all share c o mmon distribution systems, as well as technology.For example, aftertreatment technology in our Filtration division supports both Power Generation and theEngine Business. We do cross-selling to common customers, we partner through our joint venture rela-tionships and we have shared services that provide scale, allowing us to lower costs.Our products can be found in nearly every type of vehicle, from the heavy-duty diesel-powered trucksthat travel the world’s highways, to tractors that till the soil, large trucks that carry natural resourcesfrom the mine and ships that sail our waterways. Cummins-built generators supply both prime and auxil-iary power around the globe. Anetwork of distributors provide repair and maintenance service for ourcustomers worldwide.
3
InnovationEngine BusinessThe Engine Business, which accounted for 56 percent of the Company’s sales in 2002, manufactures and markets an array of diesel and natural gas-powered engines under the Cummins brand for theheavy-, medium- and light-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle, agricultural, construction, mining, marineand other markets. We also provide a full range of new parts and services and remanufactured parts andengines through our extensive distribution network.Our engines range in size from 31 to 3,500 horsepower. Our primary customers include large truck and off-road equipment manufacturers, and we also are the exclusive supplier of diesel engines toDaimlerChrysler for the Dodge Ram pickup truck. In 2002, we became the first engine manufacturer to comply with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s tightened diesel emissions standards. Power Generation BusinessPower Generation is our second largest business unit, representing 20 percent of total sales in 2002.Through this business, we provide integrated power solutions, designing and manufacturing most of the components that make up power generation systems.Our products are marketed under the Cummins, Onan and Newage brands and include diesel anda l t e rnative-fuel, electrical, stand-by and prime-power generator sets used in commercial and residentialsettings, such as hospitals, office buildings and homes. We also are the worldwide leader in auxiliarygenerators for recreational vehicles and diesel-powered recreational watercraft.Filtration and Other BusinessOur Filtration and Other Business produces filters, silencers and intake and exhaust systems under theFleetguard, Nelson, Kuss and Universal Silencer brands. We also are the largest worldwide supplier ofturbochargers for commercial applications through our Holset brand.Our products are used in on- and off-highway heavy equipment, passenger cars, industrial equipment,small engines and gas turbines. Our primary customers include truck manufacturers and other originalequipment manufacturers also served by our Engine Business. Through our new Emission SolutionsBusiness, we help customers meet increasingly stringent emissions standards worldwide.  International Distributor BusinessThe International Distributor Business, created in 2002, is Cummins newest business unit. It is a networkof 17 company-owned and two joint venture retail distributors, plus 111 sales and services locations in50 countries and territories outside the United States. The International Distributor business was created to take advantage of Cummins longstanding presencein key international markets, such as China, where we are an equal partner in the second-l a rgest enginemaker and where we have been doing business for nearly 30 years. Other key geographical marketsinclude India, Japan, Australia, the United Kingdom and South Africa. In addition to selling products, our network of trained personnel provides maintenance, engineering,repair and overhaul services.  
5Governance Structure and Management SystemsCummins is governed by a nine-member Board of Directors. Among the directors, only Cummins ChiefExecutive Officer Theodore (Tim) M. Solso is a current employee of the Company.Board members include:Tim Solso– Elected Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board at Cummins in 2000, after servingas Company President since 1995. He joined Cummins in 1971, after earning his MBAdegree fromHarvard University. He is a director of Ball Corp. Inc., Irwin Financial Corp. and Ashland Inc. and is amember of the Board of Trustees at DePauw University.Robert J. Darnell- Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Inland Steel Industries and a Cumminsdirector since 1989. Among his other duties, Darnell currently serves as Chairman of the Federal ReserveBank of Chicago.John M. Deutch– Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology since 1990 and aCummins director since 1997. While on leave from MIT, he served as U.S. Director of Central Intelligencein 1995-96, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense in 1994-95 and as an Undersecretary of Defense in 1993-94. Walter Y. Elisha– Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Springs Industries Inc. and a directorsince 1991. He also serves as a director of AT&TWireless and as a trustee of Wabash College. He is aformer member of the President’sAdvisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.Alexis M. Herman– Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NewVentures Inc. and a director since 2001.She served as U.S. Secretary of Labor from 1997-2001. She currently serves on the Board of Trustees ofXavier University of Louisiana, is Chairwoman of the Coca-Cola Co.’s Diversity Task Force and Chair of theToyota Di versity Advisory Board. She is a director at MGM/Mirage Inc. and Presidential Life Insurance Corp.William I. Miller– Chairman and CEO of Irwin Financial Corp. and a director since 1989. Prior to movinginto his current position, he was President of Irwin Management Co. from 1984-1990 and continues toserve on that company’s board of directors. Miller also is Chairman of Tipton Lakes Co., a real estatedevelopment firm in Columbus, Ind. He is a Trustee of the Taft School in Watertown, Conn., and theNational Building Museum in Washington, D.C.William D. Ruckelshaus– Strategic Partner at Madrona Venture Group LLPand a director since 1971. He was Chairman of Browning-Ferris Industries from 1995-1999. He has held a number of appointed and elected governmental positions, including being a member of the Indiana House of Representatives,Assistant U.S. Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General, Administrator of the U.S. EnvironmentalProtection Agency and Acting Director of the FBI. He is a director for Pharmacia Corp., Nordstrom Inc.,Weyerhaeuser Co., Coinstar Inc. and Solutia Inc.Franklin A. Thomas–An attorney and consultant with the TEF Study Group and a director since 1973. He was President and Chief Executive Officer of the Ford Foundation from 1979-1993. In the mid-1960s,Thomas served as Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of NewYork and Deputy PoliceCommissioner for NewYork City and was President of the Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corp. from1967-1977. He is a director for Citigroup Inc., ALCOA, Lucent Technologies Inc. and PepsiCo.J. Lawrence Wilson– Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Rohm and Haas Co. and a directorsince 1990. He is board member at Vanderbilt University and a director of the VanGuard GroupInvestment Cos., MeadWestvaco Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp.
6Corporate Governance Principles for the BoardThe primary mission of the Board of Directors is to represent and protect the interests of the Company’sstakeholders. In so doing, the Board has the legal responsibility for overseeing the affairs of theCompany, and has certain specified powers and authorities with respect to corporate action provided by Indiana statutes.  The Board’s oversight function is exercised through the election and appointment of competent off i c e r s .The Board relies on the integrity, expertise and competency of these officers in c a rrying out its oversight function.  The Board’s responsibilities include the following:•Adopt corporate governance principles consistent with the Company’sVision, Mission and Values•Exe rcise sound and independent business judgment with respect to significant strategic andoperational issues, including major capital expenditures, diversifications, acquisitions, dive s t itures,and new ventures •Advise senior management•Monitor-The performance of the Company-The performance of senior management-The effectiveness of internal controls and risk management practices- Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations- Communications and relationships with stakeholders In discharging its fiduciary duties to act in the best interests of the Company, the Board considers theeffect of its actions on shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, communities and the interests ofsociety as represented by our regulators. (link here for the Corporate Governance Principles)Committees of the BoardThe Board has seven standing committees: Executive Committee, Audit Committee, CompensationCommittee, Governance and Nominating Committee, Finance Committee, Technology and EnvironmentCommittee and Proxy Committee. The responsibilities of the Audit, Compensation, Governance andNominating, Finance and Technology and Environment committees are set forth in written committeecharters approved by the Board. (Link here for Corporate Charters)The Company complies with all NYSE and regulatory requirements concerning the membership of certain committees, including the requirements with respect to independence and financial expertise. The Governance and Nominating Committee re v i ews the committee structures of the Board and them e mbership of the various committees annually, and makes recommendations for any changes to theBoard.  
7Code of Business ConductCummins Code of Business Conduct serves as the blueprint for our commitment to act with integrity, todo what is right and what we say we will do.This driving principle is reflected in all our dealings withcustomers, suppliers, shareholders, employees and the countries and communities in which do business.The Code addresses a number of issues, including:•Providing safe and innovative products that meet or exceed appropriate emissions standards•Competing vigorously, but with integrity•Complying with all applicable governmental regulations and laws, including import/export controls •Conflicts and potential conflicts of interest with suppliers and customers•Proper treatment of others at work•The value of diversity in the workplace•Promoting a safe workplace•Valuing the environment•Contributing to the communities in which we work and live•Ensuring accuracy and openness in our financial reporting•Maintaining the confidentiality of persons who report violations of Company policies, proceduresand rules of conduct, including sexual harassment and other improper conductThe Code includes a section that deals with expectations regarding our employees’treatment of suppliersand other business partners. The policies specifically address issues of conflict of interest, exchange ofgifts and the need to conduct business with integrity at all times. (Link to the Code)The Cummins Operating System The Cummins Operating System (COS) helps develop common practices and approaches designed toimprove customer satisfaction and profitability.This structured, measurable approach ensures that ourvalues and mission are faithfully executed across all departments and business units. The COS consists of 10 operating practices that are common across the Company. It is supported by 10common functions, each with a Functional Excellence framework. Employees are trained on the COS andFunctional Excellence approaches and their importance to Cummins future success.Akey aspect of the Functional Excellence approach at Cummins involves promoting leadership across allbusiness units and groups. Leaders at Cummins are measured on their ability to:•Drive the organization toward our Vision by accomplishing our Mission•Live and foster the Cummins core values of integrity, innovation, delivering superior results, diversity, global involvement and corporate responsibility •Focus on customer success and deliver results•Create an environment in which people can develop and contribute, and where championship teams flourish 
8Government Relations Beyond our manufacturing processes, Cummins is also involved in the setting of public policy to helpestablish processes that will lead to desired goals.InAugust of 2001, we formed an office in Washington, D.C., to coordinate government relations activitiesfor the corporation.  The office provides strategic insight and advice to Cummins business leaders on emerging governmentissues and activities, provides top-level access to government officials and key policy makers, developsand implements government relations strategies to achieve business objectives and advances businessmarketing objectives relative to government programs and objectives.The office elevates government issues to senior management, ensures alignment with Cummins businessesand objectives, and identifies and aggressively resolves key government issues for the corporation.Specific areas of activity include energy policy, environment, tax, trade, transportation, governmentresearch and development and government markets, workplace and human resources issues, defenseand homeland security and facility and infrastructure programs.
9Corporate ResponsibilityCommitment to StakeholdersCummins recognizes that its duty goes beyond the bottom line. While we must deliver value to share-holders, we also strive to serve all our stakeholders – customers, employees, business partners and thecommunities in which we operate – responsibly and effectively.We actively engage all our stakeholders, seeking feedback and doing our best to keep them informed ofour actions and performance. Our policies reflect our commitment to financial excellence, environmentalstewardship, workplace equity, social responsibility and fair competition.Customers:We are dedicated to meeting or exceeding the expectations of our customers. We work toproduce products and to provide support that give our customers a competitive advantage.We work closely with key customers during the production and development of products to ensure thatthey are manufactured to the customers’satisfaction. Employees: Cummins has a long history of being an employer of choice. That reputation continues tothis day and is reinforced by the Company’s competitive salary and benefits offerings, training and careerdevelopment opportunities and positive work environment.Cummins employees enjoy a full slate of benefits, including comprehensive and competitively pricedhealth-care coverage; a pension program; generous tuition reimbursement benefits for continuing educa-tion and more. These benefits were made available to non-spousal domestic partners in 2000.Cummins places a premium on its workers treating one another with respect and dignity.Treatment ofothers at work is a key component of the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and is the subject ofmandatory training for all new hires. Training and career development opportunities also play a crucial role in Cummins success and in ourefforts to attract and retain a top-flight workforce. All new hires must attend seven mandatory trainingcourses covering the company’s code of conduct: treatment of others; diversity; information and physicalsecurity; sexual harassment issues; the Cummins Performance Management System and the CumminsOperating System.Employees’performance and development plans are reviewed regularly through the CumminsPerformance Management System, and employees receive regular formal feedback on their work.Finally, Cummins offers its employees myriad challenges and opportunities for growth with the Companyas their skills and interests dictate. Cummins has a strong history of “growing its own” leaders, andemployees regularly move freely from one part of the Company to another. Employees are encouraged to seek out new challenges and to continually broaden their skill sets.
11Business partners: Cummins has working relationships with distributors and suppliers across the world,including 17 joint venture operations outside the United States. Likewise, the Company acts as a supplierof components to a number of equipment manufacturers, and has been able to build strong bonds withits business partners.The Company is proud of its efforts to earn “preferred supplier” status with customers, such as therecent recognition given to the Fleetguard filter division by PACCAR, a truck manufacturer, and its stand-ing as one of DaimlerChrysler’s highest SCOREing (Supplier Cost Reduction Effort) suppliers. At the sametime, Cummins works to make its suppliers part of our team. Shareholders:Returning value, in terms of profits, rising stock prices and dividends, is the primarymeasure of a company’s commitment to its shareholders. After a difficult 2001 in which the Company lost money, Cummins returned to profitability in 2002.Cummins dividend – 30 cents a share per quarter – is among the more generous dividends offered incorporate America and has remain unchanged for nearly four years, despite the turbulent economic climate.Beyond returning financial value, Cummins believes strongly that it owes investors a transparent windowinto its financial workings. Cummins also goes to great lengths to keep the investing community up-to-date on the Company’s per-formance and future outlook. Top exe c u t i ves hold quarterly teleconferences with industry analysts tod i scuss our financial results. Senior management also attends a number of investor conferences duringthe course of the year, and meets or talks directly with individual analysts and investors. Communities:As is detailed in the “Social Responsibility” and “Environmental” sections of this report,Cummins and its employees are active in the communities in which we operate and live. Indeed, theCompany’s mission of “Making people’s lives better by unleashing the power of Cummins” is the embodi-ment of our approach to doing business.
12
Cummins and DaimlerChrysler enjoy a successful partnership in which Cummins is the exclusive supplier of dieselengines for the popular Dodge Ram pickup truck.Performance IndicatorsEconomic PerformanceThe economic climate over the past few years has been difficult, not just for Cummins but for much ofthe world. Heavy manufacturers such as Cummins have been hard hit as many of our customers haveheld the line on capital expenses.During that time, we saw our sales and profits fall. Nevertheless, we worked relentlessly to cut costs,diversify our business and provide increasing value to our customers. The results of that effort began topay off in 2002 when we reported a modest increase in re venues and reported a net profit of $82 million. 
We launched new businesses, built partnerships and expanded our global reach, while keeping inve s tmentsin new capital low.We introduced quality products that have been well received by our customers. We were the first company in our industry to comply with stringent new emissions standards for dieselengines in 2002.We continued to fund important development efforts even as we tightened spending and worked toc o ntrol costs across the Company. Our cash flow has remained strong and we continue to offer ourshareholders an attractive dividend. Detailed financial information can be found in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exc h a n g eCommission, which are available in the In vestor Information section of the Company web site,w w w. c u mmins.com.
13
14
Environmental Mission •We will develop superior products that continually meet or exceed emissionsand noise regulations while improving fuel economy.•We will exercise global citizenship.•We will make the environment a daily part of our business everywherewe operate and distribute our products. •We will evaluate and report our progress against stated goals. Cummins Products and The EnvironmentWe will develop superior products that continuallymeet or exceed emissions and noise regulationswhile improving fuel economy.Our ability to comply with the spirit and letter ofe n v ironmental rules and regulations is an essentialcomponent of maintaining a l e a d e r s h i pposition in our industry.At Cummins, our commitment begins with a researchand engineering program designed to achieve prod-uct improvements, innovations and cost reductionsfor our customers, as well as to satisfy legislatedemissions requirements. In 2002, our research anddevelopment expenditures were $201 million or 3.4percent of sales. This effort translates into products like the fami l yof heavy-duty diesel engines designed to meet theEnvironmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) strict newstandards for on-highway trucks. We were the firstcompany to have three engines certified to the newstandard, which took effect October 1, 2002.It also encompasses areas such as the fuel cellresearch in our Cummins Power Generation Business(CPG). The Department of Energy (DOE) has awardedCPG a cost-sharing contract to develop and commer-cialize a 10-kilowatt KW Solid Oxide Fuel Cell systemfor a wide range of commercial applications. Fuel cells use fossil fuels in an efficient and environ-mentally friendly manner, and produce direct-currentelectricity without combustion. The only wastep ro ducts are water vapor and carbon dioxide.We leverage our re s e a rch and product deve l o pm e n twith Cummins technology expertise to crea t eb u s inesses like Emission Solutions. This new Filtration Business subsidiary, which speciali ze sin filtration and exhaust products and systems fordiesel engines (9-7000 horsepower), was created in2002. It is a leader in providing integrated aftertre a t-ment technologies for re t rofitting engines in service.Our environmental focus extends to our re c o n d i t i o n-ing business, Cummins ReCon, which re n ovates andre c ycles engine blocks, crankshafts, cylinder heads, 
15The Centinel Oil SystemThe Cummins Centinel Advanced EngineOil Management System allows enginesto go 525,000 miles between oilchanges and 100,000 miles beforechanging the filter.The Centinel systemremoves a small amount of used oiland sends it to the fuel tank. The usedoil is then blended with the fuel andburned during normal combustion.Simultaneously, Centinel adds the sameamount of new oil into the engine froma make-up tank. The result is a better-protected engine that runs moresmoothly with less time and moneyspent on oil system maintenance. This system reduces the volume of oil waste.Compare the example of the amount ofoil that would be discarded from an o rmal vehicle over the course of itslifetime to the amount of Centinel usedby a normal vehicle.An ISX Engine driven 1,050,000 mileswithout Centinel would drain 360 to840 gallons of oil, while the enginewith Centinel would drain only 12 gallonsat 525,000 miles in its life. In regard to the number of oil filtersthat are discarded, data shows that forevery 75,000 miles driven with Centinelonly one oil filter is used. WithoutCentinel, a new oil filter is requiredevery 15,000 miles.
turbochargers, water, oil and fuel pumps, fuel injectors, aftercoolers, oil coolers, rocker housings, con-necting rods and other parts. On average, the ReCon Business salvages about 60 percent of an engine’sparts. The remaining 40 percent is scrapped for quality reasons. Since scrapped material is sold to re c y-clers, virtually 100 percent of an engine is either salvaged or sold to companies that re c ycle the metal.As a company whose primary product for the past 84 years has been diesel engines, Cummins providestechnology essential to transporting people and goods thus helping to build this nation's economy.These benefits, however, come at a cost and we recognize that diesels, like all combustion engines, haveenvironmental impacts and public health risks. At Cummins, our corporate mission dictates that everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier and saferenvironment. That is why we have dedicated significant resources to support the investigation of thepotential health effects of diesel exhaust and reducing human exposures.Although we do not have all the answers to the scientific questions, the continued reduction of poten-tially harmful emissions is at the forefront of Cummins technical work. In fact, as the chart below indi-cates, when compared to emissions from unregulated engines, today's diesel engines emit 90 percentless particulate matter and 75 percent less oxides of nitrogen. On average, the emissions from Cu m m i n sp ro duct line are consistently certified to be below the En v i ronmental Protection A g e n c y’s stand a rds.  We continue to be an industry leader in understanding and addressing health and environmental issues.More than half of the $2.1 billion spent by Cummins on re s e a rch and deve l o pment in the last 10 yearshas been invested in emissions reduction technologies. Nothing we do is more important.
16
How are the levels of diesel emissions in ambient air estimated?Regulators need accurate estimates of human expo-sures to air pollutants to evaluate the risks theypose to human health and to develop the mostappropriate strategies for limiting those risks.However, we know very little about what combus-tion products people are exposed to or the actuallevels of exposure. Measuring exposure to dieselemissions is particularly challenging because of the complexity and variability of the exhaust constituents and the changes that have occurred in emission profiles over the last decade.Most techniques that scientists use to measurediesel emissions in ambient air focus on diesel particles. However, these measurements are reallyestimates because, at the present time, it is impos-sible to determine which particles in ambient aircome from diesel engines and which come fromother sources. Although diesel particles can bemeasured in tailpipe emissions, in ambient air they mix with particles from natural and man-madesources. There is no unique tracer to identify dieselparticulate matter or any other constituent of dieselexhaust.  The studies that have been conducted indicate thatdiesel particulate matter represents only a smallfraction of the particulate matter in ambient air.According to the EPA, the major sources of smallparticle emissions (in descending order) are: fugitivedust (44 percent), biomass burning (17 percent),agriculture (12 percent), wind erosion (9.5 percent),fossil fuel combustion (5 percent), industry (5 percent),non-road vehicles (4.9 percent), on-road vehicles(2.4 percent), and incineration (0.6 percent). 
17Nelson Catalyzed Exhaust MufflerKorean residents and travelers are enjoying the benefits of cleanerair, thanks to the NelsonCatalyzed Exhaust Muffler(CEM) installed under the transit buseson the streets of many mid to small-size cities. Fleetguard’s new EmissionSolutions business began supplyingthis exhaust emission solution systemto Daewoo Motors Bus Division for its n ew low-emission diesel-powe red transitbuses in the fall of 2002. The CEM has enabled Daewoo Bus toreduce particulate matter from theirengine exhaust by 50 percent, helpingthe bus company meet the 2002 emis-sion regulations enforced by theKorean Government.Cummins India Limited Among First to Meet New RegulationsCummins India Limited (CIL) recentlybecame one of the first companies toreceive the Certification for Compliancewith the stringent Central PollutionControl Board (CPCB) norms. With thecompletion of tests, the C Seriesengines have successfully completedemission certification tests for CPCBnorms at Automotive ResearchAssociation of India (ARAI). As a result of the certification,Cummins Product Division has becomean “ECO-Engine Manufacturing Plant.” 
What do we know about human exposures to diesel emissions?Exposures to diesel particulate matter have beenmeasured in some occupational settings. Industrialhygiene studies suggest a wide range of occupation-al exposures to diesel particulate matter.The high-est exposures (100 to 1,700 µg/m3) occur inenclosed spaces, such as underground mines thatuse diesel engines. The mean concentrations ofdiesel particulate matter reported for other occupa-tions range from 20 to 100 µg/m3 (railroad workers)and 4 to 6 µg/m3 for truck drivers. Most of these measurements were made for oldermodel diesel engines and before the i n t roduction ofmodern industrial hygiene practices. Thus, they donot reflect the current situation. The EPAestimates that annual average concentra-tions of diesel particulate matter in ambient airrange from 1.2 to 4.5 µg/m3; the concentrations inrural areas are lower (U.S. EPA2000). It should benoted that these data are annual outdoor averages;we don't know how these annual air concentrationscompare with actual day-to-day personal exposures.  What is the contribution of dieselemissions to outdoor air pollution?Information on outdoor exposures to diesel emissionsis very limited. In the absence of actual measure-ments, scientists use other approaches to estimatepopulation exposures. The source-oriented approachinvolves using emission characterization data, infor-mation on vehicle sales and mathematical models toestimate the amount of diesel particulate matter inoutdoor environments. The receptor-oriented methodcollects data on the chemical composition of ambientair samples and emissions from different sources.This information is used in computer models thatestimate the contribution of these sources to ambie n tparticulate matter.These techniques provide reasonable approxima-tions for the contribution of diesel and other typesof emissions; however, they have pitfalls, even for
18Low-Emission QSK19M Powers FishingBoat in TaiwanThe fully electronic, low-emissionCummins QSK19M engine was thepower of choice for the fishing vessel“Yu Long.”  The 99-foot vessel, whichwas made in Taiwan, has a maximumdisplacement of 200 tons, with a cruis-ing speed of 12.5 knots. The customer’s basis for selecting anengine was reliability and fuel economy.Al ow- emissions engine like the QSK19Mallows the ship owner to meet theInternational Maritime Organization’s(IMO) environmental standards. 
Preventing Ship PollutionThe IMO Annex IV of Marpol 73/78 forthe Prevention of Pollution from Shipsregulates NOx emissions from dieselengines over 174 horsepower (130 kilo-watts). To meet the needs of our cus-tomers, Cummins Marine's commercialproduct line is emissions compliantand certified by the U.S. EnvironmentalProtection Agency (EPA) and Lloyd'sRegister of Shipping. 
single pollutants. They are even less reliable forcomplex mixtures such as diesel exhaust.   Environmental StandardsThe EPAis authorized under the Clean Air Act to setNational Ambient Air Quality Standards for particu-late matter and five other air pollutants.  Thesestandards specify the maximum ambient air levelsthat the EPAjudges necessary to protect the healthof the most sensitive populations.  Help in Meeting Standards andDeveloping ProductsIn developing products to meet various standards,as well as the demands of our customers, Cumminsrelies on its participation in the following commit-tees and partnerships:The Technology and EnvironmentCommitteeThe Technology and Environment Committee of theCummins Board of Directors provides oversight andguidance to the management and the technical lead-ership of Cummins regarding:•Technology strategy and planning•Significant research and technology projectsand tools•Major new product programs•Environmental policy and strategy within thepublic arena as well as the internal action planIts membership includes the following Directors:John M. Deutch, Chair,Walter Y. Elisha, Alexis M.Herman, William I. Miller and William D. Ruckelshaus.The committee encourages relationships betweenCummins and the external technical and environ-mental community and helps make the Companyaware of persons and institutions with whomstronger relationships should be built. It participatesin development and succession planning discussionsfor the position of Chief Technical Officer (CTO), theVice President of Government Relations and VicePresident of Environmental Policy.
19Cummins Meets or Exceeds the following standardsAmbient Air Quality Standards and GuidelinesPollutantU.S. Federal StandardsCarbon Mo n oxide (CO)8-hour Average9 ppm1-hour Average35 ppmLead (Pb)Quarterly Average1.5 µg/m330-day Average–1-year Average–Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2)Annual Arithmetic Mean0.053 ppm1-hour Average–Ozone (O3)1-hour Average0.12 ppm8-hour Average0.08 ppmParticulate Matter (PM10)1Annual Arithmetic Mean50 µg/m3Annual Geometric Mean–24-hour Average150 µg/m3Particulate Matter (PM2.5)1Annual Arithmetic Mean15 µg/m324-hour Average65 µg/m3Sulfur Dioxide (SO2)Annual Average0.03 ppm24-hour Average0.14 ppm3-hour Average–1-hour Average–The Science and Technology CouncilFormed in 1993, Cummins Science and TechnologyCouncil has given the Company access to some ofthe country’s leading scientific thinkers from theworlds of academia, industry and government.This independent group is chaired by John Deutch,an outside member of the Cummins Board ofDirectors. The Council’s role is to help the Companyevaluate and improve its scientific and technologicalprocesses and tools. The Council hears from a widerange of guest speakers. Science and Technology Council members are:Dr. John M. Deutch (Chairman)– Institute Professorat Massachusetts Institute OfTechnology, formerProvost and Dean of Science at MIT, CIADirectorand Assistant Secretary DOE.Dr. Harold Brown, Counselor–Center for Strategicand International Studies, Retired Cummins Board ofDirector, former Secretary of Defense and Presidentof CalTech.Dr. George M. Whitesides– Mallinckrodt Professorof Chemistry at Harvard University.Dr. Michael Oppenheimer–Albert G. MilbankProfessor of Geosciences and International Affairs atPrinceton University and Director of the Program inScience, Technology and Environmental Policy at the WoodrowWilson School.Dr. Ernest Moniz– Professor of Physics at theMassachusetts Institute of Technology.Dr.Anita K. Jones– Lawrence R. Quarles Professorof Engineering and Applied Science University ofVirginia and Vice Chair of the National ScienceFoundation.Dr. Gerry L. Wilson– Professor of ElectricalEngineering and Mechanical Engineering,Massachusetts Institute of Technology, formerly Dean of Engineering at MIT.
20
The Health Effects Institute: A Partnership of the U.S. EnvironmentalProtection Agency and IndustryIn the early 1980s, Cummins anticipated the need for sound, independent research on the health effectsof mobile source emissions. In response to that need, we were instrumental in founding the HealthEffects Institute www.healtheffects.org.The purpose of this institution - funded 50 percent by the EPAand 50 percent by the motor vehicle industry - is to provide independent and unbiased information onthe health effects of motor vehicle emissions. Because neither the EPAnor industry has any role in settingHEI's research agenda or in the selection or management of its studies, the results of the Institute'swork are widely perceived as being credible and sound.National Environmental Respiratory CenterCummins also supports the National En v i ronmental Respiratory Center (NERC). NERC is an integratedp rogram of laboratory research and information services that deals with the contribution of individual aircontaminants, their combinations and their sources to the health hazards of breathing complex mixturesof air pollutants. The Center is operated by the independent, non-profit Lovelace Respiratory ResearchInstitute and receives funding from a range of federal (EPA, Department of Energy and Department ofTransportation) and nonfederal sponsors (including trade associations, petroleum companies and enginemanufacturers).Climate Change – External Reporting InitiativesCummins is a new member of the Business Round Table Climate RESOLVE (Responsible EnvironmentalSteps, Opportunities to Lead byVoluntary Efforts), whose members have committed to reduce or offsetgreenhouse gas emissions.  The Climate RESOLVE initiative will give us another avenue to partner with the government to findp r a c t ical, cost-effective ways to manage greenhouse gas emissions.
21Delivering Superior ResultsCummins Facilities and The EnvironmentCummins is committed to fostering a cleaner, healthier and safer environment in every community in which our people live and work. Our facilities employ the Cummins Health, Safety and Environmental Management Systems (HSEMS),which are designed to protect our personnel and the environment, to preserve natural resources and toprevent harm to local communities.Members of the Cummins HSEMS team consist of personnel from manufacturing, safety, environment andother disciplines and functions, including the Corporate Environmental Organization.Our approach to performance reporting is multi-faceted. We assess operations that have the potentialto harm individuals or impact the environment. We also set substantial and measurable objectives inmanaging safety and the environment. Finally, we periodically review our progress against objectives.Our actions are guided by corporate policies that range from dealing with emergencies to managementof industrial wastewater.The second mechanism for performance reporting involves the global Cummins ISO 14001 EnvironmentalManagement System (EMS). ISO 14001 is a voluntary international standard that establishes the require-ments for an EMS. Details of Cummins participation in the ISO 14001 program are discussed later in thisreport.Reporting ScopeThe 16 manufacturing locations from which data was accumulated for this portion of the report includemore than 70 percent of our engine assembly plants worldwide, and just under 90 percent of the plantsin the U.S. and Europe. In addition, facilities from each of the other manufacturing business units arerepresented, including the Holset organization, which manufactures turbochargers, and the PowerGeneration and Filtration businesses in the U.S. and Europe.  We also are working to capture similar data from several additional facilities in Asia, the South Pacificand South America to supplement future reporting initiatives. Ageneral description of the operations,their wastes and recovery processes is provided for background.Cummins Engine BusinessCummins EBU facility operations primarily involve product design, research and development, engineassembly and engine and component reconditioning. Engine assembly facilities perform engine block a n dcomponent machining, assembly, painting, alkaline bath parts washing and engine performance testing.product design and engine testing are the primary operations in the research and development TechnicalCenters where production processes are limited.Engine testing is conducted in stationary test stands/cells, where product performance information ismeasured as engines run at various duty cycles. Test cells also are used for certification testing toensure products meet emissions requirements. Rebuild/reconditioning facilities perform engine tear-downand reassembly, utilizing alkaline parts washing processes. The primary waste streams generated at EBU sites include waste paint and associated materials, paintfilters, sludges and filter cake, machine coolant and used oil. Metal shavings and other salvage arerecovered for off-site recycling, as are used oils. At most facilities, machine coolant is recycled until ineff e c t i ve and ultimately added to the wastewater stream for pre t reatment prior to discharge to publict re a tment works. 
23Wastewater pre-treatment is conducted at all North American and many other worldwide locations. Usedoils, thinners and solvents are generally re-used as kiln feedstock or other fuels blending operations atoff-site locations, where Btu content is sufficient. Primary airborne emissions, which are associated withpainting and test cells include volatile organic compounds (VOCs), nitrogen oxide (NOx), carbon dioxide(CO2) and sulfur oxide (SOx). Cummins Filtration Business (Fleetguard)Cummins Filtration and Other Business Unit (FBU) facility operations primarily involve filtration andexhaust product design, research and development, filter and exhaust component assembly and productdistribution and warehousing. Filter and exhaust component assembly facilities perform metal stampingand component machining, welding, product assembly, painting and performance testing.  The primary waste streams generated at FBU sites include waste paint and associated materials, paintfilters, sludges and filter cake, machine coolant and used oil. Metal shavings, filter paper and others a lvageable materials are recovered for off-site recycling, as are used oils. At most facilities, machinecoolant is recycled until ineffective and ultimately added to the wastewater stream for pretreatment priorto discharge to public treatment works. Treatment of used oils, thinners and solvents is consistent with that of the EBU. Along with VOCs andparticulate matter, primary airborne emissions are associated with manufacturing and painting processes. Cummins Power Generation BusinessCummins PGBU facility operations primarily involve product design, research and development, alternatormanufacturing, assembly of generator sets, switchgear and controls and product testing. A l t e r n a t o rm a nufacturing facilities perform component machining, lamination stamping, rotor and stator winding,resin impregnation and alternator assembly.Assembly facilities perform housing fabrication, gensetassembly, switchgear and controls assembly, painting, alkaline bath parts washing and genset perform-ance testing. Product design and performance testing are conducted in the research and developmentTechnical Centers. Genset testing is conducted in stationary test stands/cells, where product performanceinformation in measured as gensets are run at various duty cycles. Test cells are also used for certifica-tion testing to ensure products meet emissions requirements.The primary waste streams generated at PGBU sites include waste paint and associated materials, paint fil-ters, sludges and filter cake, machine coolant and used oil.  Scrap metal, metal shavings and other salva g ea re re c ove red for off-site re c ycling, as are used oils.  At most facilities, machine coolant is re c ycled untili n e ff e c t i ve, at which point it is disposed or added to the wastewater stream for discharge to public tre a t-ment works. Wa s t ewater pre - t reatment is conducted at all North American and many other worldwide loca-tions. Used oils, thinners and solvents are generally re-used as kiln feedstock or other fuel blending opera-tions at off-site locations, where Btu content is sufficient.  Primary airborne emissions, which are associatedwith painting, alternator impregnation and test cells include; VOCs, NOx, CO2 and particulate matter.
24Materials Other than WaterCummins uses substantial quantities of oils, paints, machinecoolants, cleaning agents and related industrial products in themanufacture of our product line. The plant data captures highestuse materials on a site-by-site basis rather than specific categoriesof process materials. Consequently, comprehensive data for processmaterials other than diesel fuel and natural gas are not currentlyavailable.  Diesel fuel/fuel oil quantities represent fuels used in product test-ing applications as well as power generation activities.
Direct and Indirect Energy Use Cummins manufacturing operations utilize electricity, natural gas,diesel and propane as the primary s o u rces of energ y. The energ ydata provided below re p resents electricity used at our facilities tog e n e rate power for manufacturing operations and facility heatingand cooling purposes.
25
Facility Production Context andHow It Impacts This SectionCummins manufactured andshipped 8 percent more enginesin 2002 than 2001, but approxi-mately 14 percent fewer genera-tor sets over that timeframe.Since engine performance test-ing ramps up with increasingproduction, associated fuel usecan be expected to increase aswell. Overall, fuel use in 2002decreased slightly from 2001.Therefore, the substantialapparent increase in fuel usereflected in the totals presentedin this report can be attributedto a lack of 2001 fuel use datafor one of the European genera-tor locations.   Total Water Use  The following water use data were derived from annual totals for each of the 16 manufacturing facilitiesand includes water used for industrial and consumptive purposes.Greenhouse Gas Emissions totals in metric tonsDirectCO2 N2OFuel Oil 20019,852.9110.56Fuel Oil 200210,249.4710.99Natural gas 200135,017.5529.03Natural Gas 200246,642.3938.67Propane 2001107.040.16Propane 2002344.510.51Diesel  200147,094645.59Diesel 200263,827874.85IndirectCO2Electricity 2001373,661.34Electricity 2002368,179.21N2O and CO2 totals were derived using World Resources Institute GHG Emissions Protocols. All N2O andCO2 data associated with diesel fuel were derived using U.S. EPAAP-42 Compilation of Air PollutantEmissions Factors.Ozone Depleting SubstancesIn May of 1995, Cummins implemented a policy that stationary equipment using chlorofluorocarbons(CFCs) would no longer be purchased by Cummins. Equipment already in place would be considered forconversion or replacement depending on its age and repair costs.As a result of this policy, Cummins has replaced more than 50 percent of its Ozone Depleting Substances(ODS) equipment.Significant Air Emissions Emissions to air from facility operations; all data in metric tons.  20012002NOx1,2681,718CO273370SOx83113PM1089121VOCs317319.5Data for NOx, CO, SOx, PM10 and CO2 are based on diesel fuel used in product testing applications andwere derived using United States EPAAP-42 Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors, 1996. VOCtotals are based on throughput and VOC content of the significant VOC sources at each reporting site.
26
Total Amount of Waste by Type Cummins has active recycling programs. Proceeds from recycling efforts at some locations are used tofund employee enrichment programs or are donated to charitable causes within the local community.Wastes disposed are closely tracked at the facility level to meet environmental permit and/or regulatoryrequirements, quantify materials for which monetary returns are available on a weight or volumetric basisand to document as environmental performance measures. Waste and recycled material quantities arepresented in aggregate. Data has been rounded to the nearest whole number. Categories are defined andmaterials quantified as follows:Landfilled Industrial Waste:Includes industrial wastes that are disposed in landfills, such as sludges, filter cake, grinding swarf (grit and other solid impurities that build up in machine coolant) and relatedmaterial that is concentrated and accumulated from specific manufacturing processes and that is notspecially regulated due to toxicity.These data represent actual weights disposed with the exception ofone location where filter cake is tracked on a volumetric basis. Total weights for this location, therefore,are based on a multiplier of estimated unit weights. 2001:2,008 short tons2002:1,571 short tons.General Refuse:Includes largely non-process derived wastes that are not recyclable or otherwise are notcaptured in recycling efforts and are therefore disposed in a landfill.2001:5,224 short tons2002:4,806 short tons Recycled Metals:Metals derived predominantly from machining and salvage operations. Iron and Steel: 2001:66,756 short tons2002:79,318 short tonsAluminum:2001: 241.5 short tons2002: 352.3 short tonsCopper and Brass and Other:2001: 391 short tons2002: 330 short tonsOther Recycled Materials:These include shop and office materials reprocessed for re-use outside thefacility. Data for recycled wood understates the true volume of material recycled, since at several l o c a-tions volumes are quantified as “loads” where actual weights are unavailable and load weight esti-mates were unreliable. Cardboard:2001: 3,024 short tons2002: 3,344 short tonsPaper:2001: 289,341 tons2002: 267,295 tonsWood:2001: 3,666 short tons2002:  2,897 short tonsPlastic:2001: 49 short tons2002: 62 short tons
27Reused Liquid Wa s t e s :These re p resent industrial process wastes that are reclaimed for re-use or otherwisere-used based on Btu content as feedstock in cement kilns or fuels blended. These include used oil,coolants, solvents and thinners — including residual fluids primarily from painting processes that areregulated as hazardous under the United States Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  2001: 734,065 gals2002: 505,141 galsSignificant Discharges to Water The discharges quantified below represent an attempt to capture industrial process wastewater and donot include sanitary systems derived wastes or water loss from HVAC systems. All wastewaters quantifiedin this section are discharged to public treatment works.Discharges 2001: 80,126,000 galsDischarges 2002: 76,906,000 galsSignificant Spills of Chemicals, Oils, and FuelsCummins has not experienced a significant spill originating from any of our facilities within the 2001 and2002 sustainability reporting timeframe.  Incidents and Fines for Non-compliance Fleetguard Cookeville, Tenn.As reported by Fleetguard in the Annual Compliance Certification (ACC) for 2001 and in the Semi-AnnualReports (SARs) for the periods of January 1, 2001, to June 30, 2001, and January 1, 2002, to June 30,2002, the Cookeville, Tenn., facility failed to re c o rd the daily pre s s u re drop readings for some of theb a ghouses associated with its production processes on two separate occasions during the specifiedreporting periods. Fleetguard reported in its SAR that the cause of the failure to record the pressure dropreadings was addressed on March 1, 2002.  As a result of its failure to record these data, the Cookevillefacility was issued a Notice of Violation dated December 31, 2002, for failure to comply with its Title VOperating Permit.  The facility was subsequently issued a $9,000 civil penalty on March 28, 2003. Noadditional compliance actions have been issued against the Cookeville facility since this issue wasresolved.Consolidated Diesel Corp. (CDC) Whitakers, N. C.The CDC engine assembly plant, a joint venture with Case Corp., had operated an undersized wastewatertreatment system. Wastewater treatment problems were ongoing and periodic exceedances of dischargeparameters resulted in $800 in non-compliance penalties in 2001 and $700 in 2002. During that periodand beyond, the system improvements we re evaluated and implemented. Ul t i m a t e l y, $1,800,000 in systemimprovements were completed. As a result, CDC is in continuous compliance with its discharge permitconditions.Charleston, S.C.On February 13, 2003, the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control conducted aninspection of Cummins to determine compliance with the South Carolina Ha z a rdous Waste Ma n a g e m e n tRegulations. During the inspection, the Department observed and documented violations specific to fed-eral hazardous waste management regulations. The alleged violations were associated with waste stor-age, labeling and record-keeping and resulted in a $15,000 penalty.
28Cummins and ISO 14001Cummins recently began implementation of its ISO 14001Environmental Management System (EMS). ISO 14001 is a vol-untary international quality standard that establishes therequirements for an EMS and helps integrate the system with the ove r a l lbusiness management processes. The implementation of common systems makes it easier for usto share best practices, communicate and effect changes in va r-ious site systems.The Cummins En v i ronmental system includes policy, planning,implementation and operation, checking and corrective actionand management review, with a commitment to continualimprovement.This improvement can take many forms, ranging from enhance-ments in communications and employee awareness to strongerenvironmental performance and emergency planning andresponse programs.Cu r re n t l y, 17 Cummins manufacturing facilities are re g i s t e red toISO 14001 standards, and two others have been recommendedfor registration. The majority of the remaining facilities areexpected to be audited and registered by the end of 2004.  The following Cummins facilities are successfully registered tothe ISO 14001 standard:SiteLocationDaventryUKFgd QuimperFranceHolset UKUKDarlingtonUKNelson, Mineral Pt.USASLPMexicoNelson ViroquaUSANelson - ArcadiaUSANelson WautomaUSACIC/CKECUSANewage/StamfordUKHolset CharlestonUSANelson Neils WUSADCEC/CXMCDongfeng ChinaCOER TorontoCanadaFuel SystemsUSACMEPUSA
29Customers, such as the Fo rdMotor Company, are incre a s i n g l yrequiring suppliers to obtain ISO14001 certification. As a supplierto Ford, the Fleetguard/NelsonMineral Point facility, part of theWisconsin Operations performancecell, became the first Cu m m i n slocation in North America tore c e i ve the certification. The Darlington Engine Plant(DEP) in County Durham, U.K.,was certified to the ISO 14001standard based on two years ofw o rk and improvements led by“The Green Team.” The improve-ments included bulk s t o ra g efacilities, which are now mores e c u re against damage andspillage, better c o n t rol of wastem a nagement contractors and areduction in the amount of spec i a lwaste produced. In preparation for its certificationin late 2002, the CumminsIndustrial Center (CIC) andCummins Komatsu EngineCompany (CKEC), in Seymour,Ind., held an ‘EnvironmentalAwareness Day’to showcaseplant environmental achievementsand to heighten awareness abouta number of “green” issues.Awareness Day included a postercontest for children, prizes for theparticipants and hands-ondemonstrations by the IndianaDepartment of Natural ResourcesWildlife Management Division andthe Seymour Recycling Center.Energy Conservation at Cummins FacilitiesCummins spends more than 90 percent of its utility (electricity, natural gas, heating oil, water and sewage)dollar on electricity and natural gas. The Company was able to reduce those expenditures from $41m i llion to $36.7 million from 2001 to 2002 because of its energy conservation efforts. 
Much of this reduction can be attributed to Six Sigma improvement efforts that focused on energy con-sumption and costs. Some examples of some of the projects at various facilities that contributed to thisreduced energy use include:•The Onan facility at Fridley, Minn., replaced an unreliable compressed air system with a new energyefficient system. This included replacing two air compressors, adding 3,000 gallons of additional com-pressed air storage, installing an electronic control valve to stabilize the plant air pressure and re-pip-ing parts of the plant. Onan also worked with the local electric utility and a motor manufacturer tocomplete a plant-wide motor survey and replaced motors with a two-year or less payback (includingrebate from our utility and installation costs).•  Automation on the block line was improved to allow the power to be shut down between shifts atthe Ja m e s t own Engine Plant at Lakewood, N.Y. Si m i l a r l y, a computer-based lighting control systemwas used to shut off lights in the Columbus-based Fuel Systems Plant in certain areas during non-p roduction periods. Amanual program to conserve electricity in office areas during unoccupied timesalso was instituted.•The Daventry Engine Plant at Daventry, England, installed the proper size accumulators on the blockline to store hydraulic energy.At the same time, they lowered air pressure set points to reduce com-pressed air energy consumption.
30Electricity & Natural Gas Spend vs. SalesCummins Inc.
$34.0$35.0$36.0$37.0$38.0$39.0$40.0$41.0$42.0
19981999200020012002Spend-$ Million
$5,200$5,400$5,600$5,800$6,000$6,200$6,400$6,600$6,800Sales-$ MillionElectricity &Natural GasSalesElectricity & Natural Gas Spend vs. SalesCummins Inc.– $6,800– $6,600– $6,800– $6,400– $6,200– $6,000– $5,800– $5,600– $5,400– $5,200$42.0$41.0$40.0$39.0$38.0$37.0$36.0$35.0$34.0Electricity &Natural GasSales
19981999200020012002• Cummins India Ltd. at Pune, India, had an aggre s-sive energy efficiency program that includedreplacing older compressed air systems with a high efficiency system, including controls, compressor, piping, dryers and receivers.•At the Cummins Technical Center at Columbus,Ind., computer-monitored sensors and controlsand an auto-paging system for key test celle q u i pment were installed to alert technicians prior to equipment failure system shutdowns. That effort i m p roved test cell uptime and eliminated test re petition.•Cummins Industrial Center at Seymour, Ind.,reduced the amount of natural gas required in the plant by lowering the engine wash temperatureprior to engine painting. Paint adhesion was notaffected.•Consolidated Diesel Co. at Rocky Mount, N.C.,installed new Pulse Start Ballasts and high eff icien-cy HID lamps in 850 light fixtures on the machiningside of the facility. Lamp fixture glass reflectorswe re cleaned to improve light levels and lightd i sbursement. All compressors were linked viatrunk cabling and a software package installed tomanage the overall plant compressed air function(load sharing).
31Cummins Mexico Focuses on EnvironmentASix Sigma project led to the elimina-tion of boilers powered by diesel fuelto heat water and produce steam forthe component washing machines.Natural gas is now piped directly tothe cleaning operations to heat thewater and solvents. This has eliminatedthe NOx and particulates previouslydischarged into the atmosphere. Asecond project reduced the consump-tion of industrial rags, introduced theuse of lighter and more absorbentcloths and assured that the dirty ragswere recycled as fuel in Government-certified thermal plants, rather thanbeing sent to a landfill.Steve Knaebel, President and GeneralManager of Cummsa, was re-elected inJune to the Board of Directors of theMexican Fund for the Conservation ofNature, on which he served previouslyf rom 1995 to 2002. He also was electedChairman of the Board of EARTHUniversity in Costa Rica, where he hasbeen a board member since 1999 andpreviously was Vice-Chairman. EARTH isthe acronym in Spanish for “AgriculturalCollege for the Humid Tropics” and has400 students from 19 Latin Americancountries. The university pro m o t e se t h ical values, sustainable develop-ment, entrepreneurship and socialresponsibility.Three-quarters of itsgraduates return to work and live inrural areas.   Global InvolvementSocial PerformanceAt Cummins, corporate responsibility means servingand improving the communities in which we live. Ithas defined the character of the Company since itsfounding statement of purpose in 1919, “To provideemployment for the young men of Columbus,Indiana." Although that phrasing is a bit datedtoday, the tenor of the sentiment remains clear.Over its 84-year history, Cummins has expanded intonew markets and established businesses in commu-nities throughout the world. Yet, corporate socialresponsibility remains a fundamental part of theway we operate in every community.Acorporatesocial responsibility department sets strategic direc-tion and promotes programs, but the real corporatesocial responsibility is the result of the daily actionsof Cummins employees.In Brazil, elementary school-age children who oncehad few educational opportunities now have aschool to call home thanks to a partnershipbetween Cummins and the Sao Paulo state govern-ment. Likewise, the Clessie Cummins clinic – namedfor the Company’s founder – has been providingneeded medical care for residents in the state for adecade. In both cases, Cummins was the primarydriver in getting the projects off the ground andcontinues to pay to feed the staff, maintain thefacilities and fund other activities.Seven years ago, Cummins wholly-owned subsidiaryin San Luis Potosi, Mexico, established its own char-itable foundation with seed money from theCummins Foundation. Today, more than 70 volun-teers help manage a half-dozen community projects,including a carpentry shop where most of the workis performed by people who are blind or otherwisephysically challenged.In 2000, when the Bartholomew County SchoolCorp. in Cummins hometown of Columbus, Ind., waswrestling with ways to fund construction of a newmiddle school, the company contributed nearly $1.3million to the effort. From 2000-2002, the Cummins Foundation providednearly $3 million in direct support to non-profit organ-izations in Indiana. The Foundation also provided 
33School on Wheels – Pune, IndiaIn Pune, India, economically disadvan-taged children often grow up with littleaccess to formal education. In manycases, logistics are the biggest hurdle:Children can’t get to the same schoolat the same time every day becausethey are living on the streets or theirparents have jobs that force them tofrequently move around the area.Cummins, through the Cummins IndiaFoundation, has helped bring theschool to the children. Pune’s first“school on wheels” – a custom-designed bus/classroom - was launchedin 2001 to bring education to the mostat-risk children in the area. The CumminsIndia Foundation donated the bus andmade a multi-year commitment tos u pport the program.The Cummins India Foundation wasfounded in 1991 and provides supportto community development efforts thatprimarily deal with education, environ-mental and energy-related issues.
Cummins CEO Tim Solso helps launch thefirst School on Wheels in Pune, India.Cummins donated the bus and continues toprovide significant support for the project.another $1.9 million in support to United Wayorganizations across the state and another $270,000to United Way organizations outside Indiana duringthat period.Such efforts are one of the reasons Cummins earnedthe No. 2 spot in 2003 on Business Ethics magazine’slist of “Best Corporate Citizens” among the 1,000largest U.S. companies.Corporate social responsibility at Cummins has threeprimary areas of focus: community involvement, theCummins Foundation and corporate donations.Community involvementis how we leverage the realpower of Cummins in serving and improving commu-nities. Community Involvement Teams are employee-driven committees representing the diversity of theworkforce and all levels of management. Each teamestablishes a work plan, a budget and the focusarea for community service. Every two years allCommunity In vo l vement Teams are audited againsta set of functional excellence criteria. The auditp rocess ensures that corporate responsibility remainsan important business objective across all businessunits, provides a measurement and recognitionprocess, and identifies areas for development overthe next two-year cycle.The CITs are charged with:•Developing an annual community involvementplan•Developing a budget to support activities•Conducting employee giving campaigns•Organizing volunteer activities•Responding to community requests for donations•Developing proposals for the CumminsFoundation•Completing bi-annual Functional ExcellenceAudits
34The Ashleigh Erin Foundation – South AfricaCummins has taken an active role inproviding technical and engineeringeducation to South African high school-age students and young adults throughthe Ashleigh Erin Foundation, which wasformed in 2001. While many SouthAfrican children re c e i ve a solid academiceducation, a lack of technical skillstraining has contributed to a highunemployment rate in the country.The Foundation is in the process ofestablishing a multi-purpose technicalskills training institute that will providestudents a chance to gain the skillsemployers in the country, includingCummins, are seeking. The institute islocated in Soweto, where no other suchschool exists and where it is expectedto draw a diverse student population,including serving many of the country’smost disadvantaged residents.The Cummins Fo u n d a t i o n ,which is supported solely through re s o u rces prov i ded by the parent company,has as its mission to make people’s lives better by:•Serving and improving the communities in which Cummins does business,•Providing the tools and means for people living on the edge of society to overcome the barriersthey face.The Cummins Foundation Board of Directors has three guiding objectives:1)Serve and improve Cummins communities around the world2)Seek opportunities to make a significant impact3)Provide access, tools and services to people left out of the mainstream of societyThis alignment of direction across the globe empowers local management with the flexibility to developinnovative ways to meet the needs of our diverse communities, cultures and populations. In North America, the Plant Innovation Fund encourages plants to compete for a restricted number of sizable grants based on a request for proposal process.This program encourages local leadership to take the initiative to survey their community, determinewhere there are gaps or problems and to develop partnerships with existing services and agencies thatfind creative ways to meet those needs. Some examples from the most recent grants include:•Afamily resource center in Rocky Mount, N.C.•Aprogram to encourage men to play a greater role in their children’s lives in Jamestown, N.Y.•Materials and support for multi-lingual classes in Lake Mills, Iowa•Achildcare program for homeless children, ages five and younger, in Memphis•Acrisis nursery for abused children in Fridley, Minn.Corporate donationsprovide a means for Cummins to participate in community events that are moreappropriately funded by the Company than the Foundation. These activities include memberships, spon-sorships, dinners or other events where the Company receives a benefit in advertising or other forms ofrecognition. In the past three years, Cummins has donated more than $700,000 to causes across theUnited States.For a full accounting of Cummins charitable giving for the years 2000-2002, see the charts appended to this report. (Click on the report cover) >>>
35
DiversityDiversity“In the search for character and commitment, we must rid ourselves of our inherited, even cherished,biases and prejudices.“Character, ability and intelligence are not concentrated in one sex over the other, nor in persons withcertain accents, or in certain races, or in persons holding degrees from some universities over others.“When we indulge ourselves in such irrational prejudices, we damage ourselves most of all and ultimatelyassure ourselves of failure in competition with those more open and less biased.” – J. Irwin Miller, former Cummins Chairman and CEO.Mr. Miller’s words, spoken 20 years ago when he was Chairman of the Cummins Executive Committee,ring as true today as ever.At Cummins – which does business in more than 130 countries – the messageis powerful: Not only is valuing diversity good business it’s also the right thing to do.From a business perspective, we believe that successfully managing diversity strengthens relationshipswith our increasingly diverse customer base. Be yond that, a diverse work force – in terms of race, gender,lifestyle and educational background – ensures a variety of perspectives when it comes to looking forways to best address the needs of our customers.At Cummins, we embrace diversity with more than just words. Some examples:•All employees complete a comprehensive diversity training program designed exclusively for Cumminsshortly after joining the company. “Second generation” diversity training is a mandatory part of thecareer development path for high potential employees.•The Chairman’s Diversity Council, made up of senior leaders from across the company, sets the coursefor diversity issues – including hiring practices, supplier relations, benefits matters and training. This group meets quarterly to discuss diversity across the company.• In all, 48 Local Di versity Councils (LDCs) have been created to address diversity issues in the communitiesin which Cummins does business. In addition, the LDCs address issues such as recruiting, retention andcultural differences in the workplace. • Cummins has long worked hard to find and patronize qualified minority-owned suppliers, and thateffort is yielding even greater results in recent years. In 2002, Cummins spent more than $100 millionwith small business and minority-owned suppliers and that figured is expected to increase to $115 mil-lion this year.The Company’s Minority Business Enterprise and office of Diversity Procurement activelyidentify segments of the supply chain where minority-owned companies could cost-effectively performwork for Cummins. And, more than 50 businesses attended Cummins’Diversity Procurement Conferencethis year, where they were given direct access to purchasing representatives from across the company.• Cummins offers health care and other benefits to non-spousal domestic partners. In making these ben-efits available to life partners of our employees (both same-sex and opposite-sex partners) we recognizethat in order to be an employer of choice, Cummins needs to provide attractive and flexible programs toall employees.
37
• Cummins has received local, state and national recognition for its work in this area, including beingnamed this year by Fortune magazine as one of the 50 best places to work for minorities (for the secondtime in three years). The company’s business practices also have been recognized by Business Ethics magazine, which thisyear placed Cummins No. 2 on its list of “best corporate citize n s” from among the 1,000 largest companiesin the United States. Cummins has made the list all four years it has been compiled by Business Ethics.
38ContactsChristine M. Vujovich, Vice President-Marketing and Environmental Policy500 Jackson StreetColumbus, IN 47201Marya M. Rose, Vice President-General Counsel500 Jackson StreetColumbus, IN 47201Susan Hanafee, Executive Director-Information and Communication500 Jackson StreetColumbus, IN 47201Telephone: 812-377-0494susan.hanafee@cummins.com
© Cummins Inc. November-2003
39