Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011  |  3
Building Cleaner, Healthier  
Communities Around the World
Cummins’ new ReCon center  
in India is keeping engines on  the road and out of landfills.  Read about it on page 14.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010–2011
Cummins Inc.     SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 –2011INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
INTRO 
Letter from the chairman 2
A worldwide company 4
Who we are 6
How we do it 7
Our history 8
Vision, Mission, Values and Principles 10
Recognition 12
COveR sTOR y 
Remanufactured is the new ‘new’ 14
eNvIRONmeNT 
Honoring our commitment to every stakeholder 20
Cummins China poised to play key role   
in country’s environmental efforts 24
Environmental Stewardship //  Products 28
SCR reducing emissions   
and improving fuel efficiency 35
Generator to help Army   
go green anywhere 37
These engines turn heads, too 38
Environmental Stewardship // Practices 40
Green buildings growing  at Cummins 48
Sometimes ‘treasure’ is under our nose 51
Environmental Stewardship // Partnerships 52Cummins helps customer cash in   
on fuel efficiency 58
COB water treatment system –   
the rest of the story 59
He really hates throwing things away 60
Q&A with John Wall 62GOveRNaNCe 
Good governance foundation for success 64
Cummins Board of Directors 68
Sustainability means managing risks 71
Joplin branch learns life can change in an instant 75
CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy 
A growing commitment to community involvement 76
Building stronger communities in Brazil 80
There’s something fishy going on here 82
Cummins empowering remote populations 84
2
nd Environmental Challenge yields great results 86
New stoves help improve villages’ quality of life 91
Philanthropy: A track record of commitment 93
Cummins’ investment in corporate responsibility 95
emplOyee Rela TIONs 
Safety 
Safety in the workplace is a job never done 98
Safety teams help communities, too 101
Team in Australia develops new tool   
to enhance safety 103
Diversity Leveraging differences to fuel innovation 104
Groups join forces to extend hand to vets 106
Challenging project provides lessons in diversity 108
Goal rising for supplier diversity 110
Workforce Creating a sustainable workforce 112
FINaNCIal 
From uncertainty to growth:  
Cummins finishes 2010 in record fashion 116
This is Africa’s time for Cummins 120
Cummins works to make   
supply chains sustainable 122
Solso: A leader driven by sustainability 123Table of Contents2  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2010–2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins stakeholder:
The past year has been extremely rewarding 
at Cummins. The Company enjoyed the 
most profitable year in its 92-year history in 
2010 despite a U.S. economy that is only now recovering from the global recession. The good news continued for Cummins 
during the first quarter of 2011 and we 
expect both sales and profits to be at record levels this year.
These results reflect the hard work of 
many employees who at the height of the 
recession helped the Company align our 
manufacturing capacity with demand, control costs and improve efficiency while continuing to provide the kind of world- 
class service our customers expect.
But as proud as I am of these outstanding 
financial results, I’m equally pleased that Cummins emerged from the recession  with an even stronger commitment to  
our core values. We worked to create a 
cleaner and healthier environment, build stronger communities and to create  the right work environment where the  
diversity of our employees fuels the 
innovation our customers count on.Last year’s Sustainability Report highlighted the community involvement work 
undertaken by our employees across the 
world, building on the stakeholder model developed by our longtime Chairman and CEO J. Irwin Miller. Mr. Miller believed 
passionately that building successful 
communities ultimately results in stronger markets for our products and is essential to attracting and retaining the best employees.
This year’s report focuses on the way 
Cummins is meeting its mission that 
“everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment.” We believe  our technological advantage enables us 
to build the cleanest, most efficient diesel 
engines and power generation systems in the world. Our environmental efforts don’t stop there, though.
Our ReCon Parts and Engines business, 
the subject of this report’s cover story, is 
keeping tons of material out of landfills around the world while providing our customers with a clean, low-cost option  
to meet their transportation needs.Letter from the chairman
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  3Another story looks at how Cummins China 
is taking a leadership role in helping that country address its environmental and 
energy challenges. Of course, it all starts 
with employees like Environmental Engineer Mark Slaton, who is profiled in this report. Mark’s passion for keeping material out  
of landfills is well known around the 
Columbus Engine Plant.
You’ll still find plenty here about our 
community involvement activities. In the past year, Cummins has established full-
time Corporate Responsibility leaders in 
each business unit as well as in Brazil, China, India and Mexico. Our employees are helping to bring power to remote towns 
and villages in India and elsewhere, clean 
one of China’s largest freshwater lakes  and improve the neighborhoods surrounding the Company’s campus  outside São Paulo, Brazil.
At Cummins, we believe sustainability 
is also about establishing a workforce and workplace that will thrive amid the complexities of global marketplace for 
years to come. It’s about developing the 
next generation of leaders to guide that workforce. And it is about providing our employees with safe places to work, allowing them to fully contribute to the success of the Company. You will find 
stories on these topics as well.
Finally, in the report’s financial section, you’ll 
find a recap of our 2010 performance. You also can read about our plans to increase 
our presence in Africa and the ways we’re 
weaving corporate and environmental responsibility into our business strategy. 
As I announced in July, I will be retiring 
at the end of 2011 after 40 years with 
Cummins. Tom Linebarger will lead the 
Company starting Jan. 1, 2012. He is a remarkable individual who lives by the values that have guided Cummins for  
more than 90 years. I know he’ll do a  
great job. My faith in our new leadership and Cummins’ current position make  me more optimistic than ever about  the Company’s future.
I hope you enjoy learning about  
Cummins’ sustainability efforts.  To find out more, please visit  www.cummins.com/sustainability.
 
Tim solso Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cummins Inc.
4  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2010–2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins is a global power leader.  
Here’s a look at our international footprint.A worldwide company
United Kingdom
Cummins acquired its first overseas 
manufacturing facility in 1956 
in Shotts, Scotland. Today, the 
Company has seven plants in the United Kingdom including facilities in Darlington, Daventry, Huddersfield, 
Kent and Stamford in England and 
Cumbernauld, Scotland.
North AmericA
Cummins was established in 
Columbus, Ind. in 1919. Today, it is 
home to the Company’s Corporate 
Headquarters as well a number of business unit operations and the Cummins Technical Center. More than 
6,000 Cummins employees work in  
the Columbus area.
Brazil
Cummins Brazil was established in 
1971 and today is home to divisions  
of the Engine Business, the Distribution 
Business, Emission Solutions, Turbo Technologies, Filtration and Power Generation. About 2,000 employees 
work for Cummins Brazil. Sales in 
Brazil grew by about 70 percent from 2009 to 2010.
InternatIonal
More Cummins employees work 
outside the United States than inside.
mexico
Cummins has had a wholly-owned 
manufacturing presence in San Luis 
Potosí, Mexico since the early  
1980s and employs approximately 2,000 people in the city. The company’s presence in the country, 
however, goes back to the 1960s.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  5
Russia
Cummins sales in Russia have grown 
from $50 million in 2004 to over  
$300 million in 2010.
China
Cummins was one of the first American 
companies to expand to China. The 
Company’s efforts in the country date 
back to 1975. Today, Cummins has more than 7,000 employees in China.
InternatIonal
Sales outside the United States  
have been accounting for about  
60 percent of the Company’s  
revenues in recent quarters.
africa
Cummins is making a major push in 
Africa. The Company opened a new 
Corporate Africa headquarters in 
Woodmead, South Africa in June 2011.This map includes Cummins plants, offices and distributors.
IndIa
Cummins will celebrate its 50th 
anniversary in India in 2012.  
The Company has more than  
11,000 employees in the country  
working across some 200 locations.6  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2010–2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
CORpORa Te 
HeadqUaRTeRs
500 Jackson Street 
Columbus, Ind., 47201
sTOCK symbOl
pROdUCTs
Cummins consists of 
complementary business  units that design, manufacture, distribute  and service diesel  and natural gas engines  and related technologies  including electrical power generation systems.
emplOyees
Worldwide, approximately  
40,000 people.  
About 60 percent of the 
Company’s employees are located outside the U.S.CUsTOmeRs
The Company’s customers  
are located in approximately  
190 countries  
and territories that Cummins reaches through a network of 
more than 
600  company-
owned and independent 
distributor locations and 
approximately 6,000   
dealer locations.sales / eaRNINGs  
FOUNded   
Web sITe 
www.cummins.com
FORTUNe 500 RaNKING 
(2011)
CmI
(traded on New York Stock Exchange) 186$1.0 billion
$13.2 billion.In 2010, Cummins earned
on sales of
1919Who we areINTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  7CUmmINs eNGINe bUsINess //
The Engine Business manufactures and markets a complete line of diesel and natural  
gas-powered engines for on-highway and off-highway use. Markets include heavy-  
and medium-duty trucks, buses, light-duty trucks and industrial uses such as  
agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas and military equipment.How we do it
Cummins is organized into four business units:
CUmmINs pOWeR GeNeRa TION bUsINess //
Power Gen is a global provider of power generation systems, components  and services in standby power, distributed power generation, as well as  
auxiliary power in mobile applications. It also provides a full range of services  
including long-term operation and maintenance contracts and turnkey and  temporary power solutions.
THe COmpONeNTs bUsINess // Consists of four related businesses:
Cummins emission solutions develops and supplies catalytic exhaust  
systems and related products to the medium- and heavy-duty commercial  
diesel engine markets. 
Cummins Filtration designs and manufactures heavy-duty air, fuel,  
hydraulic and lube filtration, chemicals and exhaust system technology products.
Cummins Fuel systems designs, develops and manufactures new fuel  
systems and remanufactures Electronic Control Modules. 
Cummins Turbo Technologies designs and manufactures  
turbochargers to boost power, and related products for diesel engines.
CUmmINs dIsTRIbUTION bUsINess //
Seventeen Company-owned distributors and 10 joint ventures  
work through 233 locations worldwide – selling and distributing  
Cummins-branded products and services.
8  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2010–2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
ClessIe CUmmINs
Clessie Cummins (1888-1968) was  
the driver and mechanic for W.G. Irwin,  
a Columbus, Ind. businessman. Cummins 
opened a repair shop in 1913 in addition  to his other duties for Irwin.
His business would become a machine 
shop, performing work for the military during 
World War I, and eventually the Cummins Engine Company in 1919 after the war ended.
A prolific inventor and entrepreneur, 
Cummins became especially interested 
in diesel engines and promoted the 
technology in barnstorming trips  around the United States.Our history
Cummins’ commitment to quality 
products, principled leadership and 
community involvement can be 
traced back to the men who founded 
the Company and waited patiently  
for it to make a profit. 
Three played an especially key role.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  9
W.G. IRWIN
W.G. Irwin (1866-1943) pursued profits  
with a sense of community mission. 
The businessman backed the creation of 
the Cummins Engine Company. But the business got off to a rocky start and there was talk of shutting it down.
Irwin’s family, however, persuaded him to 
keep the business open to provide jobs to the young men of Columbus. Nineteen years after the Company was founded, Cummins turned its first profit.J. IRWIN mIlleR
Miller (1909-2004) was the grand-nephew 
of W.G. Irwin. Educated at Yale and Oxford, 
he joined the Company in 1934 and would 
spend more than a decade learning about the business before being elected president in 1947 and ultimately chairman and CEO.
Miller had a global vision. Cummins entered 
India and China long before most other American companies. He also helped organize Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s 1963 March on Washington while serving as 
leader of the National Council of Churches.
“As a world Company, this is one family,” 
Miller said of Cummins in 1969. “And as such, we know no national boundaries.  
We know no racial boundaries. And a 
person can rise in this Company from any part of the world on his own merits.”Clessie Cummins used diesel 
engines in racing cars to 
demonstrate diesel’s power and 
reliability. He’s standing (far left) 
beside the cockpit of the 1931 
Dusenberg Cummins Diesel 
Special, which finished 13th at 
the Indianapolis 500. Cummins’ benefactor was W.G. Irwin, middle, 
a Columbus businessman who 
enjoyed backing entrepreneurs. 
Cummins became an international 
Company under the leadership of  
J. Irwin Miller (right).
10  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2010–2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Vision, Mission, Values and Principles
vIsION
Making people’s lives better  
by unleashing the power  of Cummins.sTRa TeGIC pRINCIples
leverage Complementary 
businesses 
Cummins is a family of complementary  
businesses that create value for our customers by leveraging relationships  
and applying innovative technology  
across business boundaries.
Increase shareholder v alue 
Cummins’ financial success is measured  
by growth in shareholder value. We will focus on ROE / ROANA and Earnings 
Growth (not Revenue Growth) as the 
principal drivers of shareholder value.
become the low Cost producer 
Cummins will pursue an operational strategy of cost leadership.
lead in Critical Technologies 
Cummins will be the market leader  
in technologies most critical to  
our customers’ success and our 
Company’s performance.
seek profitable Growth 
Cummins will seek profitable growth by 
leveraging our assets and capabilities to  
grow in market segments with favorable  
industry dynamics and where Cummins  
can establish an advantage.
Create the Right Work environment 
Cummins will assure that the physical  
and cultural work environment is  
conducive to excellent performance  and continuous improvement.mIssION
We unleash the Power of 
Cummins by:
 »Motivating people to act like 
owners, working together.
 »Exceeding customer 
expectations by always  being the first to market  
with the best products.
 »Partnering with our 
customers to make sure  they succeed.
 »Demanding that everything  
we do leads to a cleaner, 
healthier, safer environment.
 »Creating wealth for  all stakeholders.
peRsONalITy
Decisive. Driven to win.  Agile. Passionate. Caring.valUes
Integrity Strive to do what is right and what we say we will do.
Innovation 
Apply the creative ingenuity 
necessary to make us better, faster, first.
deliver superior Results 
Exceed expectations consistently.
Corporate Responsibility 
Serve and improve the 
communities in which we live.
diversity 
Embrace the diverse perspectives of all people  and honor both with dignity  and respect.
Global Involvement 
Seek a world view and act 
without boundaries.sIx sIGma a T CUmmINs
Six Sigma is a business improvement tool 
that uses data-based analysis to identify 
defects and variation in a wide range of 
manufacturing and business processes. It has created a common language for Cummins employees to solve problems  
and develop new products and processes.
Here’s a quick look at what Six Sigma  
has meant to Cummins:
 »More than 11,000 people have been trained in how to use Six Sigma tools  
at Cummins since the process was 
initiated in 2000.
 »More than $3.4 billion has been  saved by Six Sigma projects.
 »More than $780 million has been  saved by Cummins customers using  Six Sigma techniques.
 »The Company also uses Community Impact Six Sigma to help community 
and non-profit groups use the business 
improvement tool to upgrade their operations and address critical issues.  In 2010, 34 Community Impact six  
sigma projects were completed,  
up from 11 projects in 2009.
 Cummins Operating system
The Cummins Operating System helps 
develop common practices and approaches 
to improve customer satisfaction. 
Here’s a quick look at the 10 practices:
1 Put the customer first and  
provide real value.
2 Synchronize flows (material,  
physical and information).
3 Design quality in every step  of the process.
4 Involve people and promote team work.
5 Ensure equipment and tools are available and capable.
6 Create functional excellence.
7 Establish the right environment.
8 Treat preferred suppliers as partners.
9 Follow common problem- solving techniques.
10 Use Six Sigma as the primary  process improvement method.12  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2010–2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Recognition
environmental 
In 2011, Cummins was again 
named to the FTse4Good 
index. The FTSE Group 
selects companies for the index based on their environmental records, 
whether they develop positive relationships with their stakeholders and whether they support universal human rights. The index is designed to help investors and researchers, as well as serve as a reference 
for benchmarking purposes.
Cummins was named to the 
dow Jones sustainability Index for the sixth 
consecutive year in 2010. 
The index represents the top 10 percent of the world’s 
largest companies rated by Dow Jones across a range of environmental, economic 
and corporate responsibility measures.
Cummins finished in the 
top third of the companies reviewed as part of 
Newsweek’s environmental 
rankings of the 500 largest U.s. companies in 2010. The magazine partnered with three environmental 
research organizations  
to review the environmental footprints of  
the companies along with their policies  and reputations.Cummins won Workboat’s environmental management plan 
award at the International WorkBoat Show 
in 2010. WorkBoat recognizes businesses and government agencies operating in the U.S. maritime industry that have 
successfully included environmentally 
sustainable practices into their operations.
In 2010, Cummins China was awarded the 
Green Technology medal by China’s leading business publication, the China 
Business News. The publication’s Green 
Enterprises Appraisal recognized Cummins for its industry leading emissions technology research and development.
Cummins India was a first-prize winner  
in the 2010-2011 Confederation of  Indian Industries eastern Region for  safety, Health and the environment.  The non-governmental organization plays 
a leadership role on development issues 
in India. Cummins also received a National Energy Award in 2010 for its sustainable energy practices by the West Region of  
the Confederation.
Cummins MidRange Engine Plant  
in Walesboro, Ind. was one of five  Indiana companies to receive the  2010 Governor’s a ward for 
environmental excellence  for identifying and implementing  innovative environmental practices.
Here’s a look at some of the awards Cummins has won in the past year:
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  13Governance, ethics and  
corporate responsibility
In 2011, Cummins once again was 
named one of the World’s most ethical 
Companies by the Ethisphere Institute. The institute evaluates companies’ commitment to ethical leadership, 
compliance practices and corporate 
responsibility. It was the fifth straight year that Ethisphere selected Cummins as one  of the world’s most ethical companies.
Cummins was 
named by Corporate 
Responsibility magazine in 2011 as one of the world’s 100 best 
Corporate Citizens. It was the 11th time in 12 years the Company has been named to that list. Overall, the Company finished 48
th on the magazine’s list.
Cummins India in 2011 won the  bG deshmukh a ward for corporate 
social responsibility presented by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce,  Industries and Agriculture for its work to help remote villages gain access to power.
Workplace, diversity, people
DiversityInc named 
Cummins to its list of the Top 50 Companies for 
diversity for a fifth 
consecutive year in 2011. The Company 
finished 18
th on the magazine’s 2011 list – 
up from 26th in 2010.The Company received a perfect rating  for a sixth consecutive year from the  Human Rights Campaign, the largest 
advocacy group for gay, lesbian, bisexual 
and transgender employees. The group rated more than 800 employers as part  of its 2011 Corporate Equality Index,  which reviews companies on their  
LGBT policies, practices and more.
Cummins was recognized as one of the 
Top Companies for diverse managers and Women by Diversity MBA Magazine 
in 2011. Cummins ranked 43
rd on the 
magazine and Web site list.
Cummins was one of 18 companies  
named bravo a ward winners in 2010 by 
the U.S. Hispanic Advocacy Association. 
The second biannual Bravo Awards recognize companies that despite hardships 
remained committed to best practices in  
the workplace and supplier diversity.
For the fourth year in a row, Cummins was  
named in 2011 one of the best employers for Healthy lifestyles by the National 
Business Group on Health. The Company 
was recognized at the gold level for the third time. The awards annually recognize employers who work to improve their 
employees’ health, productivity and  
quality of life. 
COveR sTOR y // ReCON®
14  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. COveR sTOR y
Remanufactured is the new ‘new’
The first and oldest “green business” and 
the ultimate form of the “three Rs” – reduce, reuse and recycle – remanufacturing returns 
Cummins’ engines and parts to productive 
use so they stay out of landfills longer.  In addition, the practice saves energy that would otherwise be used to manufacture 
new products.
In 2010, some 50 million pounds  
of Cummins product were reclaimed  to be put back on the road thanks  to remanufacturing.
The Company has become increasingly 
sophisticated in what it can remanufacture, and for how long it can extend a product’s life, through the common application of 
salvage technology, component re-use 
guidelines and remanufacturing-specific policies and procedures.
In fact, remanufactured products today are 
in many cases “up-cycled” to include design 
and quality upgrades. Cummins remanufacturing business, or 
ReCon as it’s called, is part of the New and ReCon Parts function of the Company’s 
Engine Business. 
ReCon is today a worldwide business and 
industry leader. In the past several years, Cummins has opened remanufacturing 
operations in India and China brimming with 
new technology, adding to ReCon’s existing strong roots in the Americas.
“Remanufacturing is a perfect opportunity 
to be good stewards of our environment 
and at the same time, give our customers 
much better value,” said Norbert Nusterer, Cummins Vice President – Parts Business and the leader of New and ReCon Parts. 
“All over the world, end users are asking 
for our remanufactured products as they recognize their economic, environmental, and performance benefits compared  to a completely new replacement part  
or engine.” Remanufacturing benefits the environment, performance and the bottom line
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011  |  3Cummins Inc.
Box 3005
Columbus, Indiana 47202-3005
U.S.A.
cummins.com
©2011 Cummins Inc.
Bulletin Number 4986098
Building Cleaner, Healthier  
Communities Around the World
Cummins’ new ReCon center  
in India is keeping engines on  
the road and out of landfills.  
Read about it on page 14.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010–2011
Cummins Inc.     SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 –2011
2010 – 2011 Cummins 
Sustainability ReportEveryone wants to talk about sustainability 
these days. More than 40 years ago,  
long before the term became fashionable, 
Cummins was already working to extend  the life of its products.COveR sTOR y // ReCON®
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  15In addition to offering customers an 
environmentally sensitive, low-cost alternative, ReCon contributes to Cummins’ 
financial sustainability by providing a buffer 
against downturns in the economy:  When economic times are tough, demand for remanufactured parts and engines  
typically increase. 
THe Case FOR RemaNUF aCTURING
There are many benefits to remanufacturing: 
environmental, product and process quality, and cost.
Remanufacturing requires about 85 percent 
less energy than manufacturing the same product with new parts. Take an engine,  for example. If the block can be reused,  
the energy consumed in the ore mining,  
ore processing, transportation, casting and machining to make a new one is eliminated.The same principle applies to all the other components that Cummins remanufactures. Since most of the energy used at Cummins 
and in the Company’s supply chain is fossil-
fuel based, the energy savings equate to greenhouse gas (GHG) reductions. 
In addition to the energy and GHG savings, 
remanufacturing reduces landfill waste and 
saves water used in the casting process. 
“The use of remanufactured products 
almost always makes sense, as they  offer performance and reliability the  
same as new at a more attractive price,” 
said Shawn Zwicker, ReCon New Business Development Leader.
Remanufactured engines and components 
can offer substantial cost advantages 
over their new counterparts. The use of remanufactured components can also cost-effectively extend the life of an entire piece of equipment, whose vehicle and chassis 
Cummins’ new remanufacturing 
facility in Phaltan, India is equipped 
with the latest technology which 
enables the Company to keep parts 
and engines on the road longer  
and, in some cases, improve them 
with innovations developed since 
they were first built.COveR sTOR y // ReCON®
16  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. CUmmINs 
RemaNUF aCTURING 
pORTFOlIO
 »Engines and long blocks (3.3 to 19 liter) including internal components
 »Turbochargers
 »Cylinder heads
 »Injectors
 »EGR valves
 »Connecting rods
 »Air compressors / 
accessory drives
 »Diesel particulate filters,  
diesel oxidation catalysts
 »Water pumps / lube pumps
 »Fuel injection pumps
 »Electronic Control  Modules (ECMs)
 »Urea dosersSan Luis Potosí, Mexico
São Paulo, BrazilPithampur, India Juárez, MexicoMemphis, Tenn.
Phaltan, IndiaCumbernauld, UK
Xiangfan, China
Scoresby, AustraliaReCON lOCa TIONs
can be updated to match the extended life 
of the engine.
Not only can remanufactured components 
extend useful life, they can also improve power and durability because product 
improvements that have occurred since  
the components initial manufacture are included in the remanufacturing process. And they come backed by warranties,  parts availability and service. 
CHaNGING WITH THe TImes
Remanufacturing technology is changing 
as engines change. Rising fuel costs are affecting the way the Company thinks about 
the design and overall operation of today’s 
high-tech diesel engines. Engines need  to be lighter and more compact. Components need to be lighter, smaller  and more energy-efficient. Today’s remanufacturing business is 
adapting to these trends as well as to 
technological advances through a variety of reclamation techniques, both time-tested and the latest advanced methods. All new 
salvage processes adhere to the same 
internal processes and standards as new product introductions. 
The Company’s more traditional salvage 
techniques are often processes to reverse 
the wear and tear that comes with time 
and use: repairing crankshaft seals, re-machining housings or fusion welding. 
Advanced reclamation techniques, however, 
enable employees to recover and reuse 
failed computer chips from Electronic Control Modules, graft ventilated cylinder COveR sTOR y // ReCON®
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  17
blocks and heads to enable recasting  
and re-machine turbine wheels to  meet specifications. 
Specialized laboratories – with complete 
access to all of Cummins 26 global technical centers – offer state-of-the-art tools in metallurgy and fluid chemistry,  
as well as scanning electron microscopes 
and particle counters.
In short, Cummins’ remanufacturing 
customers benefit from 40 years of experience and the most up-to-date 
techniques and technological advances. desIGN FOR RemaNUF aCTURING
The Company maximizes the benefits  
of remanufacturing for customers and  
the environment by planning and  
designing Cummins products to have  many useful lives. 
A typical Cummins engine has several 
hundred parts but 80 percent of the 
material cost is contained in just 40 of them. The Company’s design process for new engines takes into account remanufacturing the engine later, identifying up front feature-
specific characteristics that will contribute  
to cost-effective remanufacturing later.
Cummins’ new Megasite in Phaltan, 
India was inaugurated in January 
2011. The 300-acre site will be 
home to 10 Cummins facilities by 
2014. The site currently has three 
plants operating with another 
coming on line in 2011. The ReCon 
plant is the second building on the right in this picture, taken from a hill 
overlooking the site.COveR sTOR y // ReCON®
18  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. Remanufacturing is considered in the 
design phase of new products, technology development and material sourcing to 
achieve a final product plan. 
A current trend in the remanufacturing 
industry is to move from a “remove metal” philosophy to a “deposit metal” as the 
design for remanufacturing becomes more 
sophisticated. The advanced techniques  of metal deposition, or adding metal to a worn or damaged surface, is expanding  the potential for remanufacturing.
lOOKING aHead
Now that engines are being designed with 
remanufacturing in mind, customers are getting a product with even greater value 
and useful life.
Components that were once not 
salvageable may be remanufactured and done so many more times than was once thought possible.
Cummins is considered a pioneer in 
the remanufacturing business, and the Company intends to maintain its leadership position. Our goal is to expand our  
expertise to all Cummins business units  
and JV partners to benefit our customers, our Company and the environment.abOUT THe ReCON bUsINess
 »2010 Sales  $750 million
 »Employees  2,685
 »Percent of an engine that  can be remanufactured 
85 percent 
 »GHGs avoided per year 
200 million pounds 
 »Pounds of material reclaimed 50 million 
 »Number of part numbers offered 1,000 components and 2,000 engines
Every™ Part.  Genuine.
ReCon ® Products You Can Depend On.
A robotic arm sprays metal  
onto a worn surface to  
facilitate remanufacturing.COveR sTOR y // ReCON®
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  19
Remanufacturing process
•  
• re 
  
 
 
 ocess 
ocedur es 
ds dIsassembly
 »Core received as intact assemblies are 
disassembled to component level.
 »Unsalvageable parts are scrapped and salvageable components are routed to cleaning. 
salvaGe
 »ReCon salvage technology provides highest quality at lowest cost.
 »Salvage processes follow new product / process introduction procedures 
 based on Cummins and International Standards (VPI-APQP).
assembly aNd TesT
 »New material supplements core.
 »Some parts are 100 percent new  
 (gaskets, seals).
5INspeCTION
 »Methods include visual, optical comparator, dimensional, Magnaflux,  
liquid penetrant, electrical properties, leak and other functional tests.
 »Disposition is based on reuse standards: accept as is, salvageable,  future salvage and scrap.
1
CleaNING
 »Maximum cleaning with minimum abrasiveness.
 »Liquid-aqueous chemical baths, high pressure 
wash, ultrasonic and molten salt.
2
4
3
20  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
The mission statement demanding that 
“everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier environment” has served as a 
guidepost for Cummins’ environmental 
efforts ever since, directing the Company’s actions in our products, facilities and in  our relations with all our stakeholders. 
It means Cummins is unwavering in the 
Company’s commitment to produce the cleanest and most fuel efficient products in the world and to reduce the Company’s environmental footprint while sharing our 
knowledge with other stakeholders. 
In the past year, Cummins achieved several 
important milestones in honoring that commitment, including: 
 »Cummins’ portfolio of on-highway engines continued to meet customer demands  for better fuel economy, performance  and reliability. Cummins produced  90,000 EPA-certified engines with 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) 
aftertreatment for North American markets through March 2011 (page 35). »A 28 percent reduction in greenhouse gases since 2005, exceeding the  25 percent goal set as part of the 
Company’s participation in the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Climate Leaders Program (page 40).
 »A 281 million gallon reduction in water 
consumption at Cummins facilities  
since 2008. 
GRea TeR FUel eCONOmy, 
RedUCed emIssIONs
Cummins Chief Technical Officer John 
Wall has said that “climate change is the 
single most important issue that will define the Company over the next 20 years.” Going forward, more of Cummins’ annual 
investment in research and development 
will be focused on improving the efficiency of the Company’s engines and reducing the greenhouse gases (GHGs), specifically carbon dioxide (CO
2), that can trap heat  
in the atmosphere and contribute to  climate change.eNvIRONmeNT
Honoring our commitment to every stakeholder
HIGHlIGHTs
 »Cummins exceeds 
greenhouse gas reduction goal in 2010
 »Key environmental performance indicators see significant cumulative improvement
 »Company continues  support for greenhouse  gas and fuel efficiency standards for heavy-duty and medium-duty vehiclesA decade ago, Cummins set out to clearly 
define and articulate its vision, mission and 
core values so that they might guide the 
Company in its journey toward sustained excellence in all it does. Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  21
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
For Cummins, reducing CO2 is a direct 
result of improving fuel efficiency, which has 
been and will continue to be core to our 
business and technical expertise.
The evidence of our focus on fuel efficiency 
and greenhouse gases can be seen throughout this report. The Company 
has introduced portable generators for 
military use that are 21 percent more fuel efficient than their predecessors (page 37). Cummins’ longstanding remanufacturing business is growing (page 14), keeping 
millions of pounds of material out of landfills, 
and we are developing more products fueled by clean-burning natural gas  (page 38). 
Cummins has embraced the emissions 
standards for heavy-duty and medium-duty vehicles supported by U.S. President Barack Obama as both a competitive advantage for the Company and the right 
thing to do for the environment.The proposal by the EPA and the 
Department of Transportation to regulate GHG and fuel consumption from medium- 
and heavy-duty commercial vehicles has 
been four years in the making. 
The Company has been active throughout, 
forming a stakeholder group on the issue 
with other companies in the industry; 
writing a regulatory framework white paper; supporting the rule publicly when it was proposed in October 2010 and providing extensive feedback during the  
comment period.
Cummins believes that clear and consistent 
greenhouse gas regulation can drive the technological innovation needed to produce 
more fuel efficient products. In 2010, the 
Company received $54 million from the Department of Energy to help develop  more efficient heavy-and light-duty  vehicles. Cummins is making progress  
on that mission. 
Building Envelope
Efficient windows, doors, 
walls and roof reduce heat 
gain or loss 
Heating & Cooling
High efficiency heating, 
cooling and recirculation systems
Machinery & Equipment
Substantial improvements 
in motors, pumps and 
compressed air systems
Fuel Usage
Energy efficient boilers, 
burners and test cells 
Energy Recovery
Capture waste heat for 
productive use elsewhere
Power Management
Systems and procedures for energy savings 
Lighting
High efficiency “smart” lighting reduces 
operating costs
Conserving energy is a key issue 
at Cummins. These seven themes 
provide structure for the Company’s 
energy reduction efforts, saving 
$20 million annually.How Cummins saves energy a deCade OF pROGRess
Adopting a policy is one thing. Bringing 
a commitment to life across a global 
organization is quite another. 
Cummins has stepped up to that 
challenge. A decade ago, the Company’s environmental management was 
decentralized with separate business unit 
and corporate efforts going on with limited coordination and management. 
In the last 10 years, Cummins has 
dramatically recast its environmental 
management function by forming the 
Enterprise Environmental Management System (EMS) as well as the Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) Council, setting 
objectives and targets in the EMS to 
drive further reductions in the Company’s environmental footprint. 
The new structure has created a culture that 
has evolved beyond compliance to being at 
the forefront of environmental stewardship.
In just the last three years, Cummins 
has reduced water use by 22 percent, reduced hazardous waste produced during 
manufacturing by 36 percent and landfill 
waste by 11 percent when normalized  to employee hours.‘Co-loading’ reduces  
carbon footprint
A desire to be more efficient and reduce Cummins’ carbon 
footprint are bringing two of the Company’s businesses  together in San Luis Potosí, Mexico.
The Company has a remanufacturing and a filtration facility  
at the campus in Mexico that are now joining forces to ship  filters and engines.
Engines are heavy, but take up relatively little space on trucks. 
Filters, on the other hand, are just the opposite - lightweight 
but bulkier. The two businesses realized that combining the transportation of the filters and the engines could be much  more efficient.
Now the campus does what it calls “co-loading.” Engines are 
loaded at the remanufacturing plant and then the same truck 
is loaded with filters at the filtration facility a few blocks away. The truck delivers engines to the Memphis Distribution Center in Tennessee and then continues on to deliver the filters to the 
Kentucky Distribution Center. 
The co-loading project has led to annual savings of $231,735  
and 20 weeks saved in shipping time per year. Additionally,  the project has led to a 257-gallon reduction in fuel use per trip. 
By packing shipments more effectively, and 
coordinating transportation shipments between 
business units, Cummins not only cut costs but 
also reduced carbon emissions equivalent to 
taking 122 passenger cars off the road annually.Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  23
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
lOOKING aHead
Emissions compliance is as important 
to Cummins’ business as the emissions 
technology the Company designs. As 
emissions regulations grow tougher and more global, the business risk of non-compliance also becomes more significant.
In 2010, the Company redefined Cummins’ 
emissions compliance function as influencing and understanding regulations, designing and manufacturing products to meet those requirements and selling and 
servicing them in the market.
Development of the right technology  
for each customer application, assembly  and delivery of the right products,  
robust service and maintenance  
practices are all important elements  of emissions compliance.
Through a newly-created Emissions 
Compliance Committee, compliance 
activities will be globally managed, 
coordinated and connected so as a Company, Cummins will better understand risks and exposures. The Company will also 
have improved internal collaboration and 
visibility, and be well-positioned to react to cross-functional issues. 
Cummins continues to expand the breadth 
and reach of its climate change efforts. For 
example, the Company has created a team 
of experienced Six Sigma professionals who focus specifically on using the business improvement tool to coordinate efforts and leverage expertise, and to develop 
environmentally responsible products, 
processes, supply chains and facilities.
The Company has also piloted a carbon 
measurement tool for transportation and 
packaging in 2010. The tool creates  
a simple way to measure the carbon footprint of packaging and shipping our products. Going forward, as Cummins makes changes to reduce fuel costs or 
redesign packaging materials to reduce 
waste, the Company will know whether  the work is leading to real reductions in carbon emissions.
Working with customers will also be 
critical to future climate change efforts. In January 2011, the Company launched the Distribution Business Unit Climate Change Working Group, in addition to the 
existing Power Generation Business Unit 
climate group, to further business unit collaborations with customers. 
Initiatives with end-user customers  
using Six Sigma tools have already led  
to significant results. Sixty-seven fuel  economy Six Sigma projects with Cummins’ truck fleet customers have saved 50 million gallons of fuel and avoided 446,000 metric 
tons of GHGs over the past seven years.eNvIRONmeNT 
CHalleNGes 
Water
The global water supply –  
both quantity and quality –  has become an issue of equal importance to Cummins as 
energy and climate change.  
The Company is increasing its focus on water conservation. Cummins sites have been directed to construct a  
water balance – an analysis  
of water taken in, used  and discharged.
Environmental organization
Cummins is using Six Sigma 
tools to design a global collaboration framework.  Our challenge is to foster innovation and creativity  
within a framework that  
utilizes targets and goals  but is not burdensome.
GHG emissions from 
suppliers, customers, 
employees
Cummins will increasingly 
focus on helping our suppliers, customers and employees 
reduce their carbon footprints.  
The challenge is how to tackle such a large population and  the inherent challenge in 
managing behavioral change. 
Our Climate Change Working Group is actively addressing  this issue. 24  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins China poised to play key role  
in country’s environmental efforts
As China works to reduce its greenhouse 
gas emissions and energy consumption, Cummins is poised to play a leading 
role both through its engines and related 
technologies and through its power generation systems.
For example, the new ISF light-duty diesel 
engines produced by the Beijing Foton 
Cummins Engine Company – a 50-50 joint venture between Cummins and China’s Foton Motors – are reducing emissions while improving fuel economy.Cummins Power Generation’s combined heat and power system is enabling  Chinese customers like the Beijing South 
Railway Station to achieve significant  
energy savings.
And public transit buses powered by 
Cummins’ hybrid diesel/electric and  
natural gas engines are widely used in 
Beijing and other provincial capital cities  to improve air quality.
Cummins China is working closely with 
government agencies, academic institutions 
and the Company’s customers to design solutions to help China meet its energy and environmental goals.
“Cummins and our partners share a 
common set of values that have served us 
well throughout our respective histories,” said Liu Xiaoxing, Vice President and General Manager of the MidRange and Heavy-Duty Engine Businesses in China. 
“Those include a passion for innovation and 
a strong commitment to the environment.
“The products made through our 
partnerships will please our customers 
and will further cement our commitment to 
ensuring that everything we do leads to a cleaner environment,” he added.
Liu Xiaoxing, middle, Vice President 
and General Manager of the 
MidRange and Heavy-Duty Engine 
Businesses in China, receives  the Green Technology medal on behalf of Cummins from the  
China Business News.Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  25
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
The Company has been recognized for 
its environmental leadership. In 2010, Cummins China was awarded a prestigious 
Green Technology medal as part of the 
Green Enterprises Appraisal sponsored by the China Business News, the most influential business newspaper in China. 
The appraisal noted the Company’s 
relentless pursuit of environmentally  friendly technologies.
UNIqUely pOsITIONedCummins’ long history in China dating  
back to 1975 gives the Company a 
significant advantage in the highly competitive Chinese market. The Company was the first foreign diesel maker in China to invest in the local manufacturing of key sub-systems, 
including turbochargers, filtration products, 
fuel systems and after-treatment products. 
Those vital engine components support 
Cummins’ Chinese partners and customers 
as they work to meet future emission and 
related environmental standards.
The Cummins East Asia Research & 
Development Center, based in Wuhan, has played a critical role in developing the 
capability for low emission technologies. 
The center has provided engineering support to the Company’s four engine joint venture partnerships in China, as well as to 
Cummins’ components business.The Beijing Foton Cummins Engine 
Company, a 50-50 joint venture 
between Cummins and China’s 
Foton Motors, is producing a new 
ISF light-duty diesel engine that is 
reducing emissions while improving 
fuel economy.26  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. “Ever since it opened in 2006, the East Asia 
R&D Center has successfully leveraged our global resources and the local know-
how to respond to the engineering and 
product needs of local customers better, quicker and with less cost,” said Lixin Peng, 
Executive Director – China Engineering.
That investment is paying off. In 2010, 
Cummins’ ISF2.8L and ISF3.8L diesel engines were among the first light-duty 
diesel engines in China certified to meet 
Euro V emission requirements. Cummins’ ISM11L engine produced in Xi’an as part of a 50-50 joint venture between Cummins and China’s Shaanqi Group, became the 
country’s first heavy-duty diesel engine to 
receive Euro V emission certification. 
“Cummins engines are totally integrated 
from the air intake to the exhaust,” said Steve Chapman, Cummins Group Vice President for China and Russia. “Local manufacturing of Cummins’ key components further unleashes our integrated strength. That is critical … in 
cementing our long-term commitment 
of bringing in clean power technology and products to serve our partners and customers in the Chinese market.”
sTRONG paRTNeRsHIps
Cummins’ progress in developing green 
technologies hasn’t been achieved by the Company working alone. In addition to working with government agencies, 
Cummins also partners with the Company’s 
customers and academic institutions.
The Company partners with both key 
Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), companies that use Cummins engines 
in products sold under their own brand, 
and end users such as Dongfeng, Foton and the Beijing Public Transport, to make sure Cummins products meet power, 
performance and emission needs.
Such collaboration ensures that the 
Company’s emission-reduction technologies can be effectively integrated with other equipment for optimal performance.
Cummins also works with China’s leading 
universities and institutions. For example, the Company signed a joint research agreement with Tsinghua University in  
Cummins was the first foreign diesel 
maker in China to invest in the local 
manufacturing of key sub-systems. 
Leaders say the Company draws on that experience in new ventures such as the Beijing Foton Cummins 
Engine Company where these 
engines were produced.INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
beIJING
CHINA2006 to research hybrid technologies and 
their impact on emissions and energy efficiency as well as bio-fuel applications  
for diesel engines.
“We are delighted to be able to complement 
our resources and strength with Cummins’ expertise and leading technology,” said 
Professor Ouyang Minggao, Director of the 
State Key Lab of Automotive Safety and Energy at Tsinghua University. 
“Working with Cummins offers us invaluable 
access to best-in-class engine technologies 
and worldwide application experiences, 
which will be vital in laying the foundation  for the breakthroughs in green initiatives,” the professor added.
Finally, Cummins employees in China 
collaborate with Company employees around the world to leverage Cummins’  vast knowledge base to develop solutions that make sense for the particular 
conditions in China.
“Today, we’re very much a global technical 
organization and we take advantage of that,” said Cummins Vice President and 
Chief Technical Officer John Wall. “It allows 
us to access the best talent around the world, not just in the United States. It also allows us to appreciate the differences in the requirements for our products and for 
emission control around the world.”Headquarters
Beijing
Employees
More than 7,000
Sales
Consolidated sales in China 
grew by 66 percent during  
the first quarter of 2011 
compared to the same  period in 2010.
Operations
Twenty-six operating 
companies including  
15 engine, genset and component plants.
Engines
Eleven of 18 Cummins engine 
series produced in China.Tech Centers
Wuhan and Wuxi
Key partners
Dongfeng Motors,  
Foton Motors, Chongqing Machinery and Electric
Locations
Beijing 
Chengdu Chongqing Guangdong area Kunming 
Shanghai 
Shenyang Taiwan Urumqi 
Wuhan, Hubei 
Wuxi Xi’an CUmmINs IN CHINaCUmmINs lOCa TIONs IN CHINa28  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
environmental stewardship // Products
The Company’s leadership in combustion 
research, fuel systems, air-handling systems, electronics, filtration and 
aftertreatment enables Cummins  
to provide the most appropriate  emissions control for each market  the Company serves. 
Cummins’ diverse product portfolio meets 
or exceeds all emissions requirements and at the same time delivers on our customers 
need for fuel economy, performance, reliability and durability.eNGINes
Since the 1970s, Cummins on-highway 
engines have been regulated by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
and similar regulatory agencies around the world for combustion emissions, including nitrogen oxide (NOx), carbon monoxide 
(CO), hydrocarbons (HC) and particulate 
matter (PM), also known as soot. When compared to emissions from unregulated engines 40 years ago, today’s on-highway diesel engines emit 99 percent less PM  
and NOx.
Throughout the years, Cummins has  
been a leader in clean diesel technology, pioneering the design and use of integrated 
subsystem technology such as combustion 
controls, fuel system development, and turbocharger technology. 
Continued innovation has enabled  
Cummins to deliver exceptional fuel 
economy for the Company’s on-highway 
customers, ultimately driving a reduction in their output of carbon dioxide (CO
2). 
Cummins is committed to doing both the right thing for our customers and the right 
thing for the environment.Cummins demonstrates good environmental stewardship 
through our products, practices and our partnerships.
ISX11.9ISX15Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  29
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
On-Highway engines
In 2010, all heavy-duty diesel engines 
sold in the United States had to meet 
the EPA’s NOx standard (0.20 grams per 
brake-horsepower hour (g/bhp-hr)) and the PM standard (0.01g/bhp-hr). These are the most stringent emissions regulations 
in the world. The EPA has reduced both 
allowable NOx and PM levels by 90 percent compared to levels in 2004. 
The 2010 regulations not only required near 
zero NOx and PM emissions, but also the 
phase-in of advanced on-board diagnostic 
tools with additional sensors to monitor the effectiveness of emission-control systems on the engine. The sensors alert drivers if 
emission-reduction devices fail and need to 
be repaired.
In addition to the new exhaust emission 
standards, the EPA lowered the limit for diesel sulfur fuel from 500 parts per million 
(ppm) to 15 ppm. The new fuel standard 
was phased in between October 2006 and September 2010.
Cummins was among the first companies 
to meet all of these new standards. In 2010, 
the Company successfully introduced the ISX15 engine for use in 18-wheel heavy duty commercial trucks. The engine provides six percent greater fuel economy, stronger performance, faster throttle response and best-in-class driveability and reliability compared to our previous industry 
leading ISX engine. 
The ISX15 features the Cummins XPI fuel 
system, the next generation of Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR), an advanced 
turbocharger and a new Cummins 
Aftertreatment System that incorporates Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology to reduce emissions (page 35). Each ISX15 can reduce CO
2 emissions by 
up to 12 metric tons per year compared to a 2007 ISX engine.
Cummins also introduced the new ISX11.9 
engine for the smaller vocational- and work- truck market, including commercial work trucks, emergency vehicles and 
motor coach applications. This engine also 
successfully met all regulatory requirements.
Off-Highway enginesThe off-highway equipment industry is 
facing the challenges inherent in meeting 
the EPA’s final Tier 4 emissions regulations 
that extend through 2014. The Tier 4 Interim regulations, which started in 2011, require companies to look beyond engine 
technologies to areas such as high pressure 
fuel systems, turbocharging, electronics and aftertreatment systems. 30  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
The resulting innovations not only help to 
meet the latest regulations, but can also lead to more fuel efficient products that 
produce less CO
2. Looking beyond  
Tier 4 Final regulations, technologies such  
as Onboard Diagnostics (OBD), telematics 
to better track engine use and performance, 
and various hybrid systems or waste  heat recovery methods will become  more common in the industry.
In 2008, Cummins announced that the 
Company’s EPA Tier 4 Interim engines for 
2011 will have an improved fuel efficiency 
of up to five percent and improved performance while maintaining Tier 3 levels of durability. Cummins designed its 
Tier 4 Interim products with Tier 4 Final 
requirements in mind. The Company’s engineering staff worked hard to ensure that the Tier 4 Final system also included a fuel economy advantage of up to three percent. Beyond complying with Tier 4 legislation, Cummins customers are counting on 
the Company’s expertise to manufacture 
engines that produce fewer emissions and provide greater fuel efficiency. These fuel efficiency gains translate into lower operating costs for Cummins customers as 
well as a reduction in the amount of CO
2 
in the atmosphere. While the EPA has not 
made any official regulations after Tier 4 
Final, it is expected that future regulations 
will be similar to the CO2 regulations 
proposed for the on-highway market. 
Fit for Market
Fit for Market is a Cummins strategy to 
meet customer requirements by using the Company’s knowledge, tools and technologies to deliver low-cost products 
with the right capability for each market  
in every global region. 
This is not a one-size-fits-all approach, 
but a strategy to listen to customers and understand the specific demands of the 
environment where they do business.
Cummins has a portfolio of technologies 
that can be adapted to meet the power needs of specific markets, taking into 
account local product and application 
requirements, the local service environment and local manufacturing capability.
This fork lift, powered with a 
Cummins off-highway engine, 
meets 2011 Tier 4 Interim low  
emissions standards with 
a major increase in fuel efficiency. Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  31
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Alternative fuels
Cummins continues to support the 
development of engines capable of running 
on alternative fuels that will give an option  
to customers to help meet their energy and environmental goals. This includes the expanded application and continued 
integration of B20 bio-diesel blends as  
an approved fuel into all Cummins  product launches.
In the past year, Cummins has increased its 
research activities – including simulation and 
engine testing – on the viability of the next 
generation of bio-fuels that could replace petroleum-based fuels. These include  bio-fuels derived from algae and other 
biomass, including dedicated feedstocks  
for bio-energy production such as grasses and shrubs planted specifically for  energy production. 
Cummins Westport Inc. is a joint venture 
established in 2001 between Cummins 
and Westport Innovations Inc. that has produced over 28,000 alternative fuel engines for customers worldwide. Cummins 
Westport (CWI) natural gas engines are 
available as factory installed options from over 50 truck and bus manufacturers, establishing CWI as the leading global provider of midrange automotive natural  
gas engines.
Recent development of new reserves of 
natural gas in North America and elsewhere is encouraging natural gas producers 
and distributors to look at heavy-duty 
transportation as a new market, and is  also leading governments to view natural gas as one way to reduce their dependence on oil imports (page 38). CUmmINs FIl TRaTION
For more than 50 years, Cummins Filtration has been a leader in the filtration industry, 
developing integrated solutions that not  
only protect engines but also contribute to  a cleaner, healthier and safer environment. 
For example, a current program under way 
will reduce the amount of steel needed to 
produce five high-volume filter product lines by 700,000 pounds per year. The reduced amount of steel used to make filters, while maintaining performance standards, is 
expected to reduce greenhouses gases  
by 1.3 million pounds per year. 
The business unit designs products  
that remove contamination from engine 
systems, reduce engine emissions and 
minimize disposal issues. As the only  filter manufacturer that is part of a  company that also produces engines, Cummins Filtration has a key technology 
advantage that has resulted in a number  
of innovations including: 
 »Crankcase Ventilation systems that filter up to 99 percent of oil drip, up to 
95 percent of aerosol vapors and 100 
percent of engine compartment fumes.
 »ES Compleat™ Glycerin Premix Long-life Antifreeze / Coolant,  a heavy-duty engine antifreeze /coolant 
that uses glycerin instead of traditional 
ethylene glycol or propylene glycol. Glycerin is derived from renewable resources and is the primary by-product 
of the bio-diesel manufacturing process. 32  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
 »Direct Flow™ Air Filtration, which 
utilizes a straight air flow path allowing filter media to be packaged in a smaller 
profile for easier service, longer service 
intervals and environmentally-friendly disposal with no metal components. 
 »Filter-in-Filter, which combines two 
filters in a single, reusable cartridge that 
reduces the amount of waste material during regular fuel system maintenance. Filter-in-Filter is part of the User-Friendly Filter line, first introduced in 2006, that 
is made of composite material and has 
significantly less environmental impact than steel models. 
The manufacture of the User-Friendly 
filters reduces volatile organic compounds 
because the filters do not have to be painted, the reformulated paper media  does not require curing and the use of plastisol adhesive is avoided. 
Industry research indicates that 50 percent 
of all used oil filters end up in landfills. To address the end of a filter’s lifecycle, Cummins Filtration has developed a filter 
recycling management program called 
“Filtering Change.” 
This program, expected to launch in 2011, 
aims at fostering partnerships between customers’ service centers and fleet 
locations throughout the United States 
– and later globally – with filter and oil recycling companies.One hundred percent of the steel from a filter can be repurposed along with more than 90 percent of the waste oil from the 
media element.
pOWeR GeNeRa TION 
CogenerationCummins Power Generation designs 
and builds cogeneration systems used 
around the globe in various applications. Combined Heat and Power (CHP) systems are providing power to hospitals, schools, sports complexes and commercial facilities.
Cogeneration is the production of two kinds 
of energy — usually electricity and heat — from a single source of fuel. Cogeneration can replace traditional methods of supplying 
energy from multiple sources; For example, 
purchasing electricity from the power grid and burning natural gas or oil separately in  a furnace to produce heat or steam.
These methods can waste up to two-
thirds of the energy in the original fuel. 
With cogeneration, 70 to 90 percent of the energy in the original fuel is put to productive use and total energy savings  
can be 30 percent or more.
A cogeneration system normally consists of 
some kind of machine turning an alternator to produce electricity and a waste heat recovery system capturing the heat from  
the exhaust and cooling water jacket. Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  33Cummins has 430 megawatts (MW) of 
cogeneration installations globally with an average project size of 2 MW. These 
installations represent a greenhouse gas 
reduction of about one million metric tons  of CO
2 per year for our customers. 
DC gensets
DC generators offer a cost-effective and 
environmentally-friendly alternative to conventional large battery reserve systems and traditional AC generators used to 
power remote community access TV, 
telecom and wireless tower sites. 
They continuously monitor the battery 
system and seamlessly restore power 
should battery backup fail or a prolonged 
power outage occur. Not only are generators generally more fuel efficient, DC generators reduce the number of onsite batteries needed and protect the 
smaller number of batteries required. Fewer 
batteries result in fewer environmental issues related to battery disposal. Hybrid generators for RVs
A hybrid generator set is a great  
example of how Cummins is using 
technology to reduce fuel consumption  
by recreational vehicle (RV) owners as  well as noise pollution.
By using a combination of inverters,  
power unit and coach batteries, Cummins 
Power Generation has been able to reduce generator fuel consumption by up to  20 percent. Power Generation has also 
been able to reduce noise pollution by  
five decibels.
While this number may not seem very big,  
it represents about a 40 percent reduction 
in audible sound levels. In addition, the 
hybrid generator weighs up to 374 pounds less than the Company’s large diesel generators. This translates directly into better fuel economy for RVs, which in turn 
means a reduction in their carbon footprint. 
Environmental Stewardship continues 
with Practices on page 40.
Cummins Power Generation’s 
combined heat and power 
cogeneration system powers  
the Jinqiao Sports Center,  
a 120,000 square foot sports  
facility in Shanghai, China.INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL pROdUCT emIssIONs
The on-highway charts for North America compare the estimated maximum allowable emissions by U.S. EPA standards  
and Cummins’ estimate of its engines actual emissions for the past three years. Estimates are based on the number of  
engines, both heavy-duty and midrange, manufactured in the United States for on-highway use per year.
The figures in the off-highway charts are based on the number of midrange, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines  
produced to EPA standards for non-road uses.
010020030040050022003200
Nitrogen Oxides
NOx
2008 2009 2010
HydrocarbonsHC
2008 2009 2010
Carbon MonoxideCO
2008 2009 2010
Particulate MatterPM
2008 2009 2010. . . . . .
. . .
. . .
. . .
. . .
. . . EPA allowed
Cummins produced
050100150200Automotive 
(On-highway)
2008 2009 2010Non-road
2008 2009 2010108
100
109
44
24
4392
24124
960
68
16 
High Horsepower Heavy-Duty
MidRange
0100200300400500
Nitrogen Oxides
+ HydrocarbonsNOx + HC
2008 2009 2010
Carbon MonoxideCO
2008 2009 2010
Particulate MatterPM
2008 2009 2010
aUTOmOTIve (ON-HIGHW ay) UseFUl lIFe emIssIONs TOT al 
IN THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS
NON-ROad UseFUl lIFe emIssIONs TOT al 
IN THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONSdIesel eNGINe vOlUmes 
IN THOUSANDSCummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  35
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins’ decision to produce on-highway 
engines with Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) aftertreatment is paying off in more 
ways than just near-zero emissions.
The Company’s EPA- and ARB (California 
Air Resources Board)-certified 2010 engines are delivering up to six percent better fuel 
economy, which lowers carbon dioxide 
(CO
2) emissions because the engines are 
using less fuel.
“Customers are experiencing the benefits  
of better fuel economy and performance  
as well as the reliability and durability  they expect from Cummins engines,”  said Rich Freeland, President – Cummins 
Engine Business.
Through March 2011, Cummins shipped 
90,000 EPA-certified Heavy-Duty and MidRange engines with SCR for North American markets. Those engines were 
produced at the Company’s manufacturing 
plants in Jamestown, N.Y.; Rocky Mount, N.C. and Columbus, Ind.
“With SCR technology, I’m confident that 
the next decade will provide many advances 
that are mutually beneficial to clean air and satisfied customers,” said Srikanth Padmanabhan, Vice President and General Manager – Cummins Emission Solutions, 
which makes the SCR systems. SCR is an exhaust aftertreatment system 
that converts oxides of nitrogen (NOx), 
which can cause smog and acid rain, 
into nitrogen and water that can be safely emitted into the atmosphere. Here’s how the Cummins system works:
 »Engine exhaust passes through a diesel particulate filter and oxidation catalyst and becomes nitrogen dioxide (NO
2 )  
and carbon dioxide (CO2 ). 
 »A light mist of Diesel Exhaust Fluid  is sprayed into the hot exhaust as it 
moves into a Decomposition Reactor  
to form ammonia.
 »The NOx and ammonia react in the  SCR catalyst, becoming nitrogen  
and water vapor. 
The technology improves fuel efficiency 
because the use of SCR optimizes combustion, providing better fuel efficiency and power. Fuel efficiency is a critical issue 
for many in the transportation industry.
After exhaustive study, Cummins’ technical 
leaders decided that the best way to meet 2010 EPA emission standards, and at the 
same time provide improved fuel economy, 
performance, reliability and durability, was  to use a combination of SCR and Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR).SCR reducing emissions and  
improving fuel efficiency36  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Working in partnership with companies 
like Ashland Inc. (producer of Valvoline), Cummins Filtration entered into alliances to 
make Diesel Exhaust Fluid widely available 
across North America.
Company officials report customer response 
to the SCR aftertreatment system has been 
extremely positive, both from a reliability and 
performance perspective as well as from a fuel efficiency standpoint.
Cummins Vice President and Chief 
Technical Officer John Wall says Cummins 
has a competitive advantage because 
it produces not only a range of engines but also critical components such as fuel systems, exhaust aftertreatment, filters,  
and turbochargers.Having a broad range of engines available 
for different emissions levels and markets enables the Company to apply the right 
technology to each engine, using what it 
has learned from one engine platform to improve the performance of another.
“We were working with Selective Catalytic 
Reduction (SCR) for our MidRange engines 
because we believed that was the right technology for our MidRange customers, and it was,” Wall said. “As we learned  about the SCR technology in the context  
of the MidRange engines, what we found 
was we could increase the efficiency  of NOx reduction far beyond what we  had anticipated when we first started  
this development.”
1
 2
 3dIesel paRTICUla Te FIl TeR
Engine exhaust that includes NOx 
passes through a carbon filter and becomes nitrogen dioxide (NO
2 )  
and carbon dioxide (CO2 ).deCOmpOsITION ReaCTOR
A light mist of specially designed Diesel Exhaust Fluid is next sprayed into the hot exhaust as it moves into a Decomposition Reactor and forms ammonia through a series of reactions.seleCTIve  
CaTalyTIC RedUCTION
Then, the nitrogen oxides  
and ammonia pass through  the SCR catalyst where  they react, becoming  nitrogen and water vapor.Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  37
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Imagine a power generator that’s  
21 percent more fuel efficient than its predecessor at a lower cost. Now, imagine 
you can parachute that generator into 
remote locations and it will operate under any number of environmental extremes.
That’s the idea behind Cummins’ Advanced 
Medium Mobile Power Sources (AMMPS), a new line of mobile power generators for military use whose environmental and 
logistical benefits include greater fuel 
efficiency, lighter weight, quieter operations and increased reliability with a lower total lifecycle cost. 
The U.S. Army, AMMPS’ first customer, 
expects fuel savings of $745 million 
annually and $11.2 billion over the life of the generator fleet. Plus, fueling fewer times requires less logistical support such as fuel caravans to keep the generators operating. That enhances safety in war zones. “Our work with the Army on the AMMPS program demonstrates our joint commitment to providing our fighting men 
and women the tools they need to do their 
important work effectively and safely,”  said Tony Satterthwaite, President of 
Cummins Power Generation.
He said AMMPS will also reduce the 
military’s environmental footprint, “consistent with Cummins’ commitment  
to contributing to a cleaner environment.”
The annual carbon emissions reductions 
associated with the generators are  509,698 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO
2), or 7.7 million metric tons over  
the expected life of the generators.  That’s equivalent to taking 93,000 cars  
off the road.
Production of the AMMPS generators is 
expected to begin sometime in 2011.Generator to help Army go green anywhere
The U.S. Army expects significant 
savings from Cummins’ Advanced 
Medium Mobile Power Sources 
(AMMPS). Former Plant Manager 
Scott Schneider speaks at a 
presentation on AMMPS at Power 
Generation’s Fridley, Minn. facility  
in February 2011. Schneider is  now Executive Director of  
MidRange Engineering.
38  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Since its founding in 1919, Cummins has 
been known for diesel engines. But 
the Company is fast developing 
a reputation for engines that use 
another fuel entirely – natural gas.
The same clean-burning fuel that 
heats homes and drives industrial 
processes around the world also 
fuels several Cummins product lines, 
including on- and off-highway engines 
as well as power generators.
As new techniques for extracting shale gas 
promise to open up a 100-year supply of 
stable prices, it’s a market that’s expected to grow significantly.
Consumption of natural gas is projected  
to grow by 50 percent over the next 
20 years – although there is still debate over the environmental impact of some extraction techniques.
In the case of biomethane (either bio-gas 
or landfill gas), natural gas is actually CO
2 
(carbon dioxide) neutral.
“Customers worldwide are discovering the 
benefits of natural gas,” said Roe East, 
General Manager, Cummins Westport,  a 50-50 joint venture between Cummins and Westport Innovations, which specializes 
in midrange natural gas engines. “It’s clean, 
abundant and inexpensive compared to petroleum-based fuels like diesel  and gasoline.”
Perhaps the most visible example of the 
rising popularity of natural gas engines can 
be seen with transit buses. Cities across the world have been turning to natural gas engines for their mass transit systems 
to reduce pollution and provide some 
alternatives to the price fluctuations in petroleum-based fuels in recent years.
Cummins natural gas engines are now 
powering bus fleets on every continent 
except Antarctica.
Generator sets fueled by natural gas are 
also commanding attention. Natural-gas fueled generators can provide primary 
power in the developing world, where large-
scale generating stations are still years away from completion. Significant new markets are opening up as a result.
“Natural gas holds tremendous potential 
for power generators,” said Paul Stohr, 
Director of Cummins’ Power Generation’s Energy Solutions Business. “It is particularly These engines turn heads, too
ISL G natural gas engineCummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  39
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
important in developing markets where 
gas fired generation often forms a more significant part of the overall grid 
infrastructure than in developed countries.
“Many developing economies have 
significant gas reserves. Distributed  gas-fired generator solutions provide  
an economical way to deploy power 
generation much more quickly than many centrally-fired solutions can be implemented,” Stohr added.
Cummins is expanding its natural  
gas product line in both the automotive  
and stationary power categories.  Engineers are working to increase the  range of fuels Cummins engines can use, 
making the Cummins line of products  
more robust and better able to handle various qualities of natural gas now being extracted around the world.
That flexibility should put Cummins natural 
gas engines in demand in growing markets.
Whether hauling freight or powering 
factories, Cummins natural gas engines  are preparing to power the future.
“Many developing economies have 
significant gas reserves. Distributed 
gas-fired generator solutions provide 
an economical way to deploy power 
generation much more quickly than 
many centrally-fired solutions can  
be implemented.” 
paUl sTOHR 
DIRECTOR – POWER GENERATION, ENERGY SOLUTIONSMore transit operators across  
the world, like this one in Sweden, 
are turning to natural gas-powered 
engines from Cummins to reduce 
pollution and provide alternatives  to petroleum-based fuels.40  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
environmental stewardship // Practices
ClIma Te leadeRs pROGRam
In May 2011, Cummins announced it 
exceeded its 25 percent greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions reduction commitment 
upon completion of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Climate  Leaders Program. 
Companies in the Climate Leaders Program 
complete a corporate-wide inventory of their GHG emissions based on a quality management system, set aggressive GHG emissions reduction goals, and report their 
progress annually to the EPA. 
Cummins joined the program in 2006 and 
set the goal of a 25 percent reduction of GHG emissions per dollar revenue from 
2005 to 2010. As of the end of 2010, the 
Company achieved a 28 percent reduction in GHG emissions. Cummins’ GHG reduction from 2005-2010 was an absolute reduction of 110,324 tons of CO
2.“Cummins strongly believes in the business case for climate change actions,” said  Vice President and Chief Technical Officer John Wall. “It is good business, good for our business, and it is the right thing to do. 
Meeting our goal not only has been good 
for the environment, it saves Cummins more than $20 million dollars annually.” 
ReCyClING aNd W asTe 
maNaGemeNTRecycling initiatives were particularly 
critical in 2011 to offset the increased use of material and the potential for waste generation because of rising 
production volumes. Compared to 2009, 
Cummins increased combined recycling of all materials including metals, wood, cardboard, and plastics by more than  
25 percent.
However, the true measure of recycling 
success is avoiding waste generation. Total landfill tonnage increased in 2010, but remained below 2008 levels. The 
Company’s waste generation intensity, 
tonnage normalized to labor hours, has decreased by 11 percent since 2008.Cummins doesn’t just talk about environmental stewardship. 
The Company puts its words into action. Here’s a look at 
some of the ways we ensure that “everything we do leads  
to a cleaner, healthier and safer environment.”Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  41
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
In addition to recycling efforts, Cummins  
continues focusing on process improvements and management techniques that first 
reduce and/or reuse to: 
 »Minimize our use of resources. 
 »Reduce waste material output. 
Cummins has reduced hazardous waste as a by-product of the manufacturing process 
in the United States by more 50 percent on an absolute basis since 2008 by changing painting processes, cleaning procedures, and resizing material order quantities.
WaTeR CONseR vaTION 
Since more than 60 percent of the 
Company’s business is in international markets, Cummins recognizes the 
challenges associated with the rising global 
issue of water and has for several years focused on conserving water and reducing wastewater discharges.In 2010, the Company’s total water use was stable despite increasing production rates and labor hours, reflecting a 22 percent 
reduction in labor-normalized water use 
intensity. Some recent examples of water conservation around the Company include:
 »On our grounds – Cummins ReCon in 
San Luis Potosí, Mexico reduced potable 
water consumption for irrigation by using soil moisture sensors to measure demand, and by using reclaimed wastewater for irrigation. Sites in Beijing, 
China; Darlington and Daventry, in the 
U.K.; and Melbourne, Australia are harvesting rain water to reduce their potable water demand. 
 »In our facilities – The Company continues to reduce its water use intensity by implementing creative, facility-oriented solutions including: comprehensive leak detection and employee education 
programs; automatic shut-off faucets, -30%-25%-20%-15%-10%-5%0%5%10%15%20%25%30%35%
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010-28% ACHIEVED
Normalized Emissions GoalActual GHG EmissionsCMI Revenue (2005 constant $)
Normalized GHG Emissions (intensity)
GHG reduction
goal of -25%
Cummins reduced its GHG 
emissions by 28 percent per dollar 
of revenue from 2005 to 2010, 
exceeding the 25 reduction goal  
it set with the U.S. EPA.INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
010203040Other recycled materials
in thousands of metric tons
2008 2009 2010
Paper .44 .51 .39
Plastic .93 .80 1.10 
Wood 17.87 13.47 18.55
Cardboard 10.99 10.70 13.83sensors and kitchen sprayers; waterless 
urinals; reusing treated wastewater to flush toilets and optimizing cooling  
tower operations to save more than 
18 million gallons a year at one U.S. manufacturing site.
 »Through our processes –  
Our conservation efforts also extend  
into the processes that comprise the core of our business – designing, manufacturing and testing our products. In Seymour, Ind., employees reduced water use and wastewater generation 
by automating controls and adding 
procedures to optimize washing processes. In Daventry, U.K., the Company’s Six Sigma process saved 
nearly 1.8 million gallons in the site’s 
engine test cells by implementing  new control systems and variable  speed motors. “Cummins strongly believes in the business case for climate 
change actions. It is good business, good for our business, 
and it is the right thing to do.” 
JOHN Wall 
VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF TECHNICAL OFFICER
0.00.51.01.52.0
Total water use
in billions of gallons
2008 2009 2010-25%-15%-5%5%15%25%
1.42 billion
1.15 billion
1.14 billion
Total water use
Water use normalized to hours workedHour normalized
water useTotal water use 
in billions of gallons
020406080100120Recycled metals
in thousands of metric tons
2008 2009 2010
 
Copper & brass 0.67 0.58 0.73 
Aluminum 1.13 0.75 0.68
Iron 104.97 78.84 97.25Recycled metals
in thousands of metric tonsOther recycled materialsin thousands of metric tons Total water usein billions of gallonsCummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  43
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
eNeRGy eFFICIeNCy 
Cummins has created a culture and 
structure for energy efficiency that is now 
part of how the Company does business. 
Our global energy efficiency team has implemented nearly 300 energy efficiency capital projects across seven specific 
energy themes, with an aggregate return  
on investment of 50 percent.
The team, with leaders from each business 
unit and related environmental functions, manages the capital fund allocated specifically for energy efficiency, analyzes proposed capital projects for energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction and tracks our progress.Engine
Test CellsCooling
Towers
CONNECT LOOPS TO USE 
ENGINE HEAT IN PLANT
BoilersPlant
Air HeatingReduce / eliminate 
heat going to towers
Reduce load on boilers
0510152025
Landﬁll waste
in thousands of metric tons
2008 2009 2010-15%-10%-5%0%5%10%15%
Hour normalized
landﬁll wasteWaste generated 
in thousands of metric tons
19,619
15,672
17,159
Total landﬁll waste
Landﬁll waste normalized to hours workedCummins’ Seymour Engine Plant  
used to just dump all the heat 
generated by test engines at the 
site to outside cooling towers.  
Now, heat from the engines is 
captured by a heat exchanger  
to help heat the plant.
0100200300400500
Process hazardous waste
in thousands of pounds
2008 2009 2010-50%-30%-10%10%30%50%
Hour normalized
hazardous wasteWaste generated 
in thousands of pounds
436,167
346,471
218,591
Total hazardous waste
Hazardous waste normalized to hours workedlandfill waste
in thousands of metric tonsprocess hazardous wastein thousands of poundsINTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
The Company’s wide-ranging energy 
savings actions have included projects such as high-efficiency lighting upgrades, power 
management systems, energy-efficient 
motors, pumps and fans, compressed air optimization, heating and cooling equipment upgrades, and energy recovery from engine 
test cells. Some best-in-class examples 
in 2010 of energy efficiency from capital projects include: 
 »The turbocharger plant in Pithampur, India optimized power usage by addressing 
energy supply issues. The “Power 
Perfector” systems installed provide voltage optimization and active power factor correction for improved energy  
use by shop floor equipment.  »Compressed air can be a large part of 
a plant’s expenses. A project on dry machining engineered air nozzles at 
Cummins’ Rocky Mount, N.C. Engine 
Plant optimized demand by computer controls and the installation of thousands of engineered nozzles throughout the 
plant’s dry machining lines. The nozzles 
reduce usage by 40 percent while significantly decreasing shop floor  noise levels.
 »Energy recovery projects capture energy 
normally discharged as waste heat for 
productive use elsewhere. A project on energy recovery of test cell water jackets used to prevent overheating at Cummins’ 
Seymour, Ind. Engine Plant used high 
efficiency heat exchangers to capture energy. Instead of dumping water to cooling towers, the water now provides the energy for heating the plant, and in 
later phases for heating for wash and 
paint operations.
eNeRGy CHampIONs 
In addition to implementing capital projects, 
Cummins has trained a broad network of 
Energy Champions who coach and mentor site Energy Leaders to find and implement, through a process called an energy treasure hunt, low and no-cost energy projects that 
also save money for their sites. 
Stickers on plant equipment make 
energy use and cost visible and empower employees to turn off equipment not in use 
when appropriate. 
The Company now has 100 trained Energy 
Champions and 270 Energy Leaders at  21 sites, who completed 10-week programs over the lunch hour in energy efficiency. 
Our own products and processes               Partnering with others                                                                                     Public policy efforts
Four principles shape 
our ef forts towar d sound 
public policy .Six principles dir ect our 
company actions for pr oducts, 
businesses, employees and communities.Climate
ChangePrinciplesSupport
communityefforts
Grow and develop
new businesses
Impr ove
product
efﬁciency
Harness the
energy of employees
Make work spacesgreen spacesAccelerate pr ogress
through incentivesCreate a balanced
global appr oachPromote
technologydevelopmentDevelopresponsible
regulationsCollaborate withsuppliers andcustomers
In 2007, Cummins 
formed a Climate Change 
Working Group to take 
both a strategic and tactical 
view of climate change 
and sustainability.These 10 principles form  
the basis to Cummins’  
climate change initiatives.Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  45ClIma Te CHaNGe
Early in 2007, Cummins formed a climate 
change team to take both a strategic 
and tactical view of climate change and 
sustainability at Cummins. The Climate Change Working Group’s members come from across the Company – business 
units, facilities, product planning, corporate 
strategy, environmental policy, supply chain, and government relations, among others. 
The team takes a very structured and 
results-oriented approach to Cummins’ 
10 climate change principles, which 
collectively represent the Company’s climate change policy, to meet the challenges of climate change going forward. Six of 
these principles direct company actions 
for Cummins’ products, businesses, employees and communities, while four of them shape our partnerships with legislative and regulatory entities to develop sound 
public policy. 
The work of the Cummins climate change 
policy as carried out by the working group are reflected in many areas in this report: 
in achieving our greenhouse gas reduction 
target, collaborating with customers and suppliers on efficiency efforts, supporting community efforts and creating our global sustainable building standards. 
CUmmINs eNvIRONmeNT al 
maNaGemeNT sysTem
Cummins Enterprise Environmental 
Management System (EMS) ensures a 
common approach to implementing the 
Company’s environmental standards at its sites worldwide. Through the EMS, the Company sets and cascades key environmental improvement objectives, monitors environmental performance 
and provides a framework for continual 
environmental improvement.
Cummins has incorporated the ISO 14001 
international environmental management 
standards into the EMS and has committed 
to registration of all in-scope locations by an independent third-party auditor. In-scope sites are those including manufacturing and other locations as determined by potential 
‘Hse beGINs WITH me’ THeme  aT GlObal WORKsHOp
Cummins Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) Leaders 
learned about water conservation, supplier safety, ergonomics 
and more at the bi-annual Cummins HSE global workshop in Indianapolis, Ind. in May 2011.
More than 150 employees from 18 countries customized their 
educational experience by selecting from more than 30 technical 
break-out session topics. 
Cummins Business Services 
Director of Quality Tom Bailey 
learns through a bicycle-powered 
generator how less energy 
is needed to light the more 
energy-efficient light bulbs at an 
environmental fair in Columbus, Ind. 
Cummins has done more than  30 high-efficiency lighting projects 
at its sites.46  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
environmental impact and operational 
complexity and exclude office buildings  and smaller parts distribution centers. 
At the end of 2010, Cummins had  
77 sites and the corporate entity, or  84 percent, certified within the Company Enterprise EMS and therefore conforming  
to the ISO 14001 Standards. The Company 
is committed to increasing participation to  96 percent by the end of 2011. 
Cummins is not limiting EMS  
development to our manufacturing 
base. The Company intends to certify 
environmental management systems in our global distribution facilities. The business plans to have all distribution entities 
registered to Cummins EMS, conforming  
to the ISO 14001 Standards by 2015.eNvIRONmeNT al ObJeCTIves  
aNd TaRGeTs
When the EMS was established in 2003, 
overarching Corporate level objectives 
were established as the basis for setting environmental performance improvement targets in any given year. They are: 
 »EMS development and implementation 
 »Environmental continual improvement
 »Reduction of GHG emissions
 »Reduction of waste
 »Resource conservation and  
pollution prevention
 »Environmental performance reporting
 »Promotion and recognition of  
functional excellence
 »Voluntary Environmental Stewardship Program participation Cummins GHG emissions by country Cummins GHG emissions by business unit
Europe  2%
Mexico  4%China  5%
Other  6%
India  7%
United Kingdom  9%United States  66%Emission Solutions 3%
Corporate 3%
Distribution 6%
Turbo Technologies 6%
Fuel Systems 6%Filtration 9%Power Generation 10%Engine Business 56%Cummins GHG emissions by country Cummins GHG emissions by business unitCummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  47
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Each year, the Health, Safety and 
Environmental Council sets objectives and targets for the organization to ensure 
the ongoing improvement of Cummins 
environmental performance. Corporate objectives are supplemented with business unit initiatives which are of special 
importance and address a unique risk  
or opportunity specific to that segment  of the business.
Over the years, objectives were launched 
that included the development of Cummins 
greenhouse gas emissions inventory, 
addressing environmental footprint reduction project using Six Sigma tools  and more recently for each site to develop  
a water balance identifying key uses  
of water and ways to further water conservation efforts. 
To support energy efficiency and the 
Company’s greenhouse gas (GHG) 
reduction efforts, Cummins has made 
energy a “significant aspect” of the EMS. This designation means that making energy efficiency part of our daily work remains a 
key focus at Cummins facilities and critical 
to the Company’s sustainability efforts.
Designation as a “significant aspect” 
requires not only a focus on controlling high energy processes and equipment, it also 
compels the Company’s EMS leaders to 
train all employees on the importance of energy efficiency and how each person  can positively impact the environment. 
Our 2010 GHG emissions inventory was 
audited by an independent third party, Bureau Veritas for which we received  a certificate of assurance. 
Environmental Stewardship continues 
with Partnerships on page 52. 02004006008001000Total GHG emissions
in thousands of metric tons CO2e
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Mobile sources 28.4 28.4 29.7 28.2 29.0
Fugitive SF6, CO2 130.6 165.0 169.8 7.3 7.2
Stationary combustion 193.2 203.2 220.9 187.5 193.5
Electricity, other 453.6 454.4 435.9 394.9 434.8
  U.S. 258.4 284.5 294.9 128.1 127.6
 Non-U.S. 93.9 112.2 125.5 94.9 102.1
   U.S. 354.1 351.0 327.6 290.5 309.4
 Non-U.S. 99.5 103.4 108.3 104.4 125.4  2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
 DIRECT
INDIRECTTotal GHG emissions
in thousands of metric tons CO2e
U.s. and Non-U.s. GHG emissionsin thousands of metric tons CO
2e48  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Green buildings growing at Cummins
New Cummins plants and office buildings 
across the world are going green with environmentally-friendly features  
ranging from high-efficiency lighting  
to water collection systems used to  irrigate landscaping.
“We want to build good buildings that 
are easy to maintain, environmentally 
sustainable and help us create great places to work,” said Tim Updike, Cummins’ Director of Global Facilities Services.  “But they need to make sense for each 
location and they need to be adaptable  
to our future needs.”
The new “Megasite” in Phaltan, India is a 
good example. The 300-acre site will be 
home to 10 Cummins’ facilities by 2014. 
The site currently has three plants operating with another coming on line in 2011. The site was inaugurated Jan. 14, 2011.
Because it was built relatively far from an 
urban area, water at the Megasite is a big 
issue. It makes sense to collect so-called “greywater” – water used in sinks and canteens – as well as rain water that falls 
on the property. The rainwater is gathered 
through a system of small pits or cisterns interconnected with small canals that run through the property.
The water collected is then used for such 
things as watering landscaping, including a field of purple, pink and white flowers 
that greets visitors and employees. Potable water is brought to the site by truck.
Water isn’t the only challenge at the 
Megasite. When work started on the property in 2008, the location was littered with large rocks. Rather than cart that rock 
away, it was used in the masonry in the 
buildings at the site and in the security  wall that surrounds the complex. 
In addition to energy-efficient lighting,  
the buildings at the Megasite include 
skylights and windows to let in natural  
light. And those are just a few of the  green features at the development.
Over the past two years, Updike and  
other Cummins officials have been updating 
Company standards for new construction to integrate technology while balancing initial costs with the costs over the lifetime of a building as well as the building’s 
environmental impact.
Compliance with these Global Building 
Standards will result in a building that is capable of being certified, Updike said.  
The actual process of certification and  
the regulatory agency used – LEED,  Energy Star or others – is a decision left  to the building occupant based on need and region of the world.Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  49
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
The new Megasite in Phaltan, 
India is one of the newest “green” 
facilities at Cummins. Water used in 
sinks and canteens as well as rain water that falls on the property is gathered and used for such things 
as watering landscaping, including 
these purple, pink and white flowers that greet visitors and employees.LEED stands for Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design. It’s a set of standards widely used in the United States and 
elsewhere to measure whether a building 
is environmentally sustainable. In India, the India Green Building Council (IGBC) sets similar standards for industrial facilities.
If a Cummins business unit believes 
certification is important, it can pursue  that designation. For example, the Cummins Middle East Regional Distribution and Middle East FZE complex in Dubai, 
which opened in May 2010, is a LEED 
Silver-qualified facility.
The first Cummins facility to go green was 
the Cummins Generator Technologies India 
plant in Ranjangaon, India in 2007. The 
plant has been widely recognized for its design which includes high efficiency glass for windows and skylights, fly ash in the building’s bricks and rooftop landscaping.Cummins’ new building standards are followed whether a building is new, being expanded or remodeled. A growing list  
of Company facilities are taking advantage 
of the standards to follow Ranjangaon’s lead, including:
 »The Cummins Generator Technologies 
expansion in Wuxi, China, which will 
include a “green roof” that provides insulation when the weather is cold  and absorbs heat when temperatures  are high.
 »The new Customer Support Center in Nashville, Tenn., which opened in 2010, and includes new control systems that allow for better management of the 
lighting, heating and air conditioning 
when the center is not occupied.  The chairs in the break room are made with recycled plastic soda bottles and there is recycled rubber flooring in the 
fitness room.
50  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
 »The Mount Gambier facility in Australia 
now under construction will include solar panels, recycling of grey water, rain water 
storage, environmentally friendly building 
materials and more. Leaders there  used Six Sigma tools to determine  what features made the most sense  
for that location.
 »Cummins’ new Oil and Gas Center 
of Excellence located in Houston, Texas, which opened in 2011 to deliver customized and integrated packages 
for oil and gas land-based applications, 
will have a number of green features when it’s fully complete. They include low-flow water devices in the bathrooms, occupancy sensors for shop and office lighting as well as high efficiency lighting.
Updike said the new standards reflect a more balanced approach to the Company’s construction needs that evolved over the past few years. The Company had been 
very focused on first-time construction 
costs but now is looking increasingly at the lifetime costs of its new buildings as well as their environmental footprint. 
“Our goal is the construction of high 
performance, sustainable, but flexible 
buildings,” he said.Ranjangaon, India Wuxi, ChinaHouston, TexasNashville, Tenn.
Phaltan, India
Mount Gambier, AustraliaGReeN bUIldING lOCa TIONs
Houston, Texas Nashville, Tenn. Mount Gambier, Australia (under construction)Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  51
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Sometimes ‘treasure’ is under our nose
The Energy Champion program at Cummins 
helps plants and facilities review their operations for potential energy savings that 
can get overlooked in meeting day-to-day 
work demands. 
That’s exactly what happened at Cummins 
Turbo Technologies (CTT) in Charleston, 
S.C., and that second look is paying off in  
a big way.
In reviewing the operations at CTT in 
Charleston, the Energy Reduction Team at the plant, led by Energy Champion David 
Willey, noticed that three compressed air 
vacuum units in a drilling operation were  for the most part turned on in the morning to collect metal chips and turned off at the 
end of the day. 
However, they were only actually sucking  
up chips for a fraction of that time.
“We utilize stand-alone vacuums for 
chip evacuation during our balancing 
operations,” explained Willey, Maintenance 
and MRO Leader at the plant. “The actual cut time for the balancing was about  10 seconds per cut and 30 cuts per hour. 
Total shift vacuum run time was less than 
40 minutes, but we were in operation  480 minutes.”
Compressed-air vacuums use a lot of 
energy and therefore cost of a lot money to 
operate. The team estimated the vacuums were sucking up thousands of dollars  
worth of energy annually in addition to  the metal chips.
Willey said the team implemented a 
two-fold solution in 2010. Some electric vacuums were installed that could be shut down when cutting wasn’t taking place. 
In addition, a valve was installed on the 
remaining compressed-air units so they wouldn’t run constantly.
In all, six units were replaced or 
reconfigured and Willey estimates savings  
of more than $50,000 annually.
Cummins Energy Champions like Willey  
are discovering that sometimes the  treasure they seek isn’t hidden very deep. 
It just requires looking at a situation in a 
different way. 
By installing some vacuums that 
could be shut down when cutting 
isn’t taking place, Cummins Turbo 
Technologies employees are saving 
thousands of dollars.52  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
environmental stewardship // Partnerships
sCIeNCe aNd TeCHNOlOGy 
advIsOR y COUNCIl
Cummins seeks advice from its Science and 
Technology Advisory Council in developing 
products to meet various standards, to reduce the Company’s environmental footprint and to meet customer demands.
The Council, formed in 1993, has given the 
Company access to some of the country’s leading scientific thinkers and policymakers from the worlds of academia, industry and government. The Council was restructured 
in 2010 to facilitate access to a broader 
group of international specialists and align their expertise with the specific topics  being addressed by the Council at a 
particular time. 
The permanent members are:
 »Chairman Gerald Wilson, former Dean 
of Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 »Harold Brown, former U.S. Secretary of Defense and former President of the California Institute of Technology. Other senior international scientists and engineers are invited to participate as advisors depending on the topic.
The Safety, Environment and Technology 
Committee of the Cummins Board of Directors also advises senior leaders  and the technical leadership of  
Cummins regarding:
 »Environmental and technological 
strategies, compliance programs and major projects as they relate to the Company and its products.
 »Public policy developments, strategies and positions taken by the Company with respect to safety, environmental and technological matters that significantly 
impact the Company or its products.
 »Progress of strategic environmental 
programs and policies.
The Committee consists of Cummins Board Members Robert J. Bernhard, Franklin R. 
Chang-Diaz, Stephen B. Dobbs, William I. 
Miller, Georgia R. Nelson and Carl Ware.Cummins’ partnerships have helped the Company meet  
our product and emissions goals and become more efficient  
in our use of energy. Here’s a look at some examples:Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  53
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
THe U.s. depaRTmeNT OF eNeRGy
Cummins has long worked in partnership 
with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) 
to develop advances in diesel engines and 
related technologies.
Previous Cummins programs funded by 
the DOE have led to both evolutionary and 
breakthrough technologies and analytical 
approaches, speeding up the time for the commercialization of vehicles powered by advanced combustion engines. 
In 2007, for example, Cummins  
introduced its 6.7 liter Turbo Diesel,  
which met 2010 emissions standards  three years early. That engine uses a Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Adsorber Catalyst 
developed and demonstrated in 
collaboration with the DOE. 
The Company received a $54 million  
grant from the DOE in 2010 for two  projects it is currently working on to  
improve fuel efficiency in heavy-duty  
and light-duty vehicles. 
Cummins became a charter member of 
the DOE’s Save Energy Now LEADERS 
program in 2009. Cummins pledged  
to improve its energy efficiency at least  30 percent by 2015. U.s. epa 
The Environmental Protection Agency is 
charged with developing and enforcing 
environmental regulations in the United 
States. By working with a trusted business resource such as Cummins, the agency can better match its technology mandates with 
realistic timelines to meet those regulations.
Cummins, for example, has supported 
improved fuel efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction from medium and heavy-duty commercial vehicles and endorsed the rule 
as proposed by the agency and the  
U.S. Department of Transportation in October 2010. The Company has provided extensive feedback during the comment 
period in 2010.
aCademIC paRTNeRsHIps Aluminum versus steel. Microfinishing a 
surface. Energy use and industrial ovens.
Working with Purdue University, Cummins 
is trying to learn more about these 
subjects and others to better understand the environmental impact of our product design decisions and how we can adjust 
our material selection and manufacturing 
processes to use less energy.
Cummins employees are also learning from 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology about the measurement of the full life-cycle 
of our products. That’s not an easy task 
given there are approximately 2,500 distinct part numbers to a heavy-duty diesel engine. 
54  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Collaborating with customers for better performance
Since 2004, Cummins has collaborated with its end user truck fleet customers  
on 67 customer-focused Six Sigma projects, which saved 50 million gallons of  
fuel and avoided 446,000 tons of CO2 emissions. That’s equivalent to taking  
87,000 cars off the road.
GRea TeR FUel eCONOmy:  
dRIveR assIsT
Reduced vehicle speed saves fuel. 
Road Speed and Cruise Control 
Governors limit the maximum vehicle speed while Smart Torque allows high  torque in the top two gears, minimizing 
the number of down shifts required to  
maintain speed.pOWeRspeC
This tool helps customers specify the correct vehicle 
and electronic parameters using inputs such as gross 
vehicle weight, terrain, and engine type to determine 
proper axle and transmission configuration.
GRea TeR FUel eCONOmy: 
eNGINe FINe-TUNING
Customers achieve greater fuel 
economy through optimization 
of duty cycles, calibration and hardware as well as Cummins’ help with transmission integration, 
accessory management and  
down speeding.FleeT maNaGemeNT
In addition to “active” features,  
Cummins engines also have a number 
of “information features” where “trip” 
or “duty cycle” information is stored. Fleet managers can analyze data for variations between drivers or trucks, 
look for trends and use the data for 
driver coaching.FUel eCONOmy  ReFeReNCe lIbRaR y
Customers have access to  
information resources describing 
the best fuel economy configuration for electronic parameters, transmission, tires, 
axle ratio and other settings.Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  55
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
dUKe eNeRGy 
Cummins has continued to partner with 
Duke Energy on many energy efficiency 
initiatives and was named a “Power Partner” 
in 2009. 
In the latest collaboration, Cummins in  
2010 expanded to three more sites a 
successful and innovative Energy Contract 
for Service piloted in 2009. In the pilot,  three major Indiana manufacturing sites were upgraded with high-efficiency lighting and smart sensors which Duke Energy 
owns and maintains.The facilities pay for the energy service  
as provided – in this case lumens of light – and the cost of that service has always 
been less than the energy costs avoided. 
The pilot demonstrated a facility can gain improved quality lighting with no capital  and net negative expense while reducing  
its carbon footprint. 
Both partners realize benefits in the 
arrangement: more Cummins production means more lighting used – lumens are variable to our production needs – and 
expected usage and savings are positive  
for the Company.This report includes a lot of statistics regarding carbon dioxide (CO2 ), a colorless gas 
that contributes to global warming. In many instances, statistics are based on tons  
of CO2 . So, how much is a ton of CO2?How much is a ton of CO2?
4 TRaCTOR TRaIleRs FUll!1 2
3 456  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
pUblIC seCTOR COllabORa TIONs – 
CITy OF COOKevIlle
Cummins Filtration has partnered with 
the City of Cookeville, Tenn. to replicate 
Cummins successful “Unplugged Challenge” program to address energy use overnight, over the weekend and over 
holidays when city facilities are closed. 
Cummins provided technical assistance 
and training to the city, which identified its own Energy Leaders to take inventory of all electrical items in all city facilities. 
“The energy efficiency partnership we have 
with Cummins Filtration and its staff has proven to be one of the best public-private partnerships we have ever had here at 
the City of Cookeville,” said City Manager 
Jim Shipley. “The Energy Leader program they have helped us establish has not only saved our city money, but has also provided invaluable knowledge to our employees 
by helping them reduce their home energy 
costs as well.”sUsT aINabIlITy RepORTING aNd 
pROdUCT Web sITes
Cummins takes a number of steps to report 
its environmental information to the public 
and work with other companies to share best practices. 
For the past six years, the Company has 
participated in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP), an institutional investor consortium that seeks to encourage greater environmental reporting among companies. 
CDP asks companies to provide details 
on their carbon emissions, their response 
to the impact of climate change on their markets and regulatory environment, their use of energy and planning for the future.
In addition, Cummins is a member of the 
Business Roundtable Climate RESOLVE (Responsible Environmental Steps, Opportunities to Lead by Voluntary Efforts), whose members have voluntarily committed 
to reduce or offset greenhouse gas  
(GHG) emissions. 
Cummins also is a member of the Business 
Environmental Leadership Council of the 
Pew Center on Climate Change and sits  
on the President’s Council of Resources  for the Future.Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  57
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Some Cummins business units are also 
releasing more environmental information about their products and practices. Power 
Generation’s newly launched environmental 
sustainability Web site brings together news and information from across the business about its varied products, services, projects, 
development initiatives and employee 
activities that have a bearing on climate change and reducing carbon footprints.
In addition to links to Cummins’ corporate 
Web site, the Power Generation site 
includes descriptions of its own products 
with environmentally sound and sustainable features. Examples include Power Generation’s lean burn gas product line 
and heat and power, waste-to-energy 
and alternative fuels systems, and backup power for solar energy.
“We are committed to being fact-based, 
open and engaged with our customers, 
suppliers, employees and communities 
about the issue of climate change,” said Tony Satterthwaite, President of Cummins Power Generation.
The URL is www.cumminspowerdocs.com/ 
climate/climate-landing.htameRICaN eNeRGy  INNOva TION COUNCIl
Cummins Chairman 
and CEO Tim Solso 
has joined several key U.S. business leaders serving on the American Energy 
Innovation Council, a group advocating for 
development of clean energy to boost the nation’s economic competitiveness. Other members include Microsoft founder Bill Gates and Jeff Immelt, Chairman and CEO 
of General Electric.
The Council has called for more research 
into nuclear, solar and wind power, fossil fuels and other energy technologies. 
The council has also asked Congress to 
create an energy strategy board charged with developing and monitoring a national energy plan as well as overseeing what the business leaders call a new “Energy 
Challenge Program” for large-scale 
demonstration projects. 
58  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins helps customer cash in on fuel efficiency
When Mark Kennedy of Swift Transportation 
took Cummins Six Sigma training in 2006, little did he know his project would become 
an award winner. 
Nor did he know it would lead to his current 
job as Equipment Optimization Manager, heading a department that has saved Swift 
millions of dollars over the years thanks to 
Six Sigma. 
“For Swift, the whole project helped our 
relationship with Cummins grow stronger,” Kennedy said. “And it has helped us to 
focus on everything we do, and do it as 
efficiently as possible.”
Six Sigma is the business improvement tool 
that uses data-based analysis to identify 
defects and variation in manufacturing and 
business processes. Cummins believes strongly in Six Sigma and frequently invites customers to learn about the process.
The goal of Kennedy’s 2007 project was 
to improve the Phoenix, Ariz.-based 
company’s miles per gallon (mpg)  from an average 6.63 to 7 mpg for its Cummins-powered trucks without 
changing load weights or engine size. 
The project came up with a number of recommendations addressing everything from tire pressure to gearing.Swift, now at 14,500 trucks with 10,000 of them powered by Cummins engines, was a smaller fleet back then with 5,000 trucks 
with Cummins engines. Still, the project 
exceeded its goal, delivering an estimated $15 million in savings from the Cummins powered-trucks alone. 
Two Six Sigma team members plus one 
of Kennedy’s project sponsors were from Cummins. The effort received a Chairman’s Six Sigma Quality Award. These awards  are given annually to outstanding projects  
at Cummins. 
Swift has embraced Six Sigma and 
other lean management processes, saving millions of dollars from process 
improvements. For example, Swift 
has continued a long-term process improvement of giving every truck that  falls below a certain mpg threshold a thorough inspection.
A two to three percent fuel economy 
improvement can translate to $1,000  to $2,000 in fuel savings per truck per  year. Kennedy says that’s more than 
enough reason to stay on top of each 
truck’s performance.
Mark Kennedy (left) and  
Russ Thompson, Swift’s Vice 
President of Procurement  
and Shop Operations and a sponsor of Kennedy’s Six Sigma  
project, are pictured next to  
one of Swift’s trucks.Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  59
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
COB water treatment system – the rest of the story
Here’s an update on a story in last year’s 
Sustainability Report.
In 2009, 25 years after the Corporate Office 
Building (COB) was built in Columbus, Ind., 
Cummins replaced the facility’s old water cooling system. The old system circulated chemically treated well water to support 
three chillers for air conditioning. 
Millions of gallons of water were discharged 
annually into a local waterway after passing through the system. 
The new system included a high-efficiency 
cooling tower that used an electronic 
technology to treat the water so it wouldn’t damage the equipment. Cummins stopped using well water and started purchasing 
water from the city to cool the building.
But water could still only be circulated once 
through the cooling tower process and then had to be discharged into the city sewer system. In addition, the tower had to be 
drained and cleaned periodically.
As a result, Cummins went from using well 
water that was essentially free to using city water that increased the Company’s water 
and sewer costs dramatically. And the 
Company wasn’t accomplishing much in terms of water conservation.
Now, Cummins has taken its water 
management efforts to the next level. 
The Company is using a new, low-impact process that allows water to be re-circulated 
many more times through the cooling tower. That process is saving water. The new technology has also reduced maintenance. 
High efficiency water softeners – similar 
to those found in many homes – prevent scaling by removing the calcium and magnesium in the water. The system adds 
silica, which works with the water supply’s 
natural chemistry to prevent corrosion of  
the cooling tower equipment.
“We are very pleased with the treatment 
system and its performance”, said Phil 
DeVinney, the Facilities Manager at Cummins 
headquarters. “Through the first quarter of 2011 our utility bills reflected a 90 percent water use reduction and an over 80 percent 
water and sewer cost reduction.” 
The Company’s high-efficiency 
cooling tower system is discretely 
located within this brick enclosure  
at one end of a parking lot across 
the street from Cummins’ Corporate 
Office Building. New water 
softeners are helping the system 
conserve water.60  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
maRK sla TON
Title 
Environmental Engineer
Education
Bachelor’s and master’s degrees 
from Indiana University.
Career
Joined Cummins in 1988 and has 
spent more than 20 years based at the Columbus Engine Plant. Prior to joining Cummins he worked at the Indiana Department of Toxicology.
Quote
When asked about his dedication to 
the environment, Slaton explained: “I’m kind of a passionate person.”
He really hates throwing things away
Mark Slaton says it’s true that he likes  
to ride with the trash trucks at least  once a quarter to photograph what 
Cummins throws out at the  
Bartholomew County Landfill. 
And the Environmental Engineer at the 
Columbus Engine Plant (CEP) admits to 
diving into the occasional dumpster when 
he believes it’s necessary.
But even before the question can be asked, 
he is quick to point out there are some limits to what he will do to ensure Cummins 
disposes of as little trash as possible.
“When I go to the landfill,” he says with a sly 
smile, “I ride in the cab (of the truck).”
While Cummins models good environmental 
stewardship through its products, practices 
and partnerships, it depends on people like Slaton to fulfill its mission that “everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier (and) safer environment.”
Slaton’s commitment to throwing out  
as little as possible – he analyzes the  photos he takes at the landfill, for example, to find hidden opportunities to reuse or 
recycle – has been noted both in and 
outside the Company.
“Mark is an environmentalist in the truest 
sense of the word,” says Jim Murray, Director of the Bartholomew County  Solid Waste Management District.  “He will do anything to avoid throwing 
something away.”
In 2010, Slaton was given an Environmental 
Excellence Award from the Association of Indiana Solid Waste Management Districts 
in recognition of his efforts.
Ernie Smith, Cummins’ Environmental 
Affairs Manager, said he’s never known a more committed and driven environmentalist than Slaton.
“Mark is obsessed with protecting the 
environment,” he said.
Slaton says he simply loves the challenge 
of finding a home for everything CEP thinks 
about throwing away – as long as it isn’t a 
landfill. The effort pays off, literally. CEP’s recycling initiatives brought in $77,000 for the Company in 2010.
While he’s based at CEP , Slaton now works 
with several Cummins facilities in Southern 
Indiana to help them reduce what they throw out. 
Slaton started with the Company in 1988. 
Back then, CEP was shipping out lots 
of trash, including the equivalent of a semi-truck full of wooden pallets to the Bartholomew County Landfill each week.Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  61Then, the landfill warned that it would  
run out of room if the community didn’t  find ways to shrink its waste stream.  
And Slaton became an active partner  
in finding a solution. 
Take those pallets, for example. Today, 
none are being sent to the landfill. They are 
sent to a company that refurbishes them for 
reuse. Those that are broken and can’t be used again are ground up and recycled. 
Slaton is quick to credit his fellow 
employees at CEP and elsewhere. 
Here are some of their other recycling 
triumphs at CEP:
 »Finding a way to reuse tons of concrete removed from the plant during a major 
remodeling. Some 800 truckloads were 
used along a nearby creek to stabilize  its banks.
 »Recycling the cardboard and other packaging that came along with  
several large office furniture orders 
delivered to CEP .  »Recycling hundreds of pounds of Styrofoam and plastic packing materials that were part of the recent PowerSweep 
laptop computer replacement program.
When he isn’t riding out to the landfill or 
working on a specific project, Slaton can often be found strolling through the CEP 
– he doesn’t spend much time at his desk 
– talking reuse and recycling. He says most people welcome his help, and don’t hide their trash cans when he walks by.
“I think most people see me as a resource,” 
he said. “They want to recycle.”
That’s not to say there aren’t some non-
believers out there.
“A few are like that,” Slaton acknowledges, 
pointing to a soda can in a waste basket 
near one of the entrances at CEP .  “Don’t worry,” he says, “I’ll get that  before we leave.”HelpING THe COmmUNITy
This year, Mark Slaton took 
on perhaps his biggest green 
initiative: Working with other 
local companies and agencies  to organize the first-ever household hazardous waste  
day for Bartholomew County.
He was a key force in raising 
the tens of thousands of dollars needed to hire a firm capable of safely taking the paints, 
solvents, bleach and other 
materials collected at the  May 14, 2011 event  at the Bartholomew  
County Fairgrounds.
“Mark saw the need and set 
about finding a way to fill it,” said Ernie Smith, Cummins’ Environmental Affairs Manager. 
“He is just as concerned  
about what’s happening  in the community as he is  at Cummins.”
Crews collect household hazardous 
waste at the Bartholomew County 
Fairgrounds in Columbus, Ind.62  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
q:  WHa T’s NexT IN  
emIssIONs RedUCTION? 
a:  NOx (nitrogen oxides) and particulate 
were really the focus in the mid-1980s. 
Since that time, we’ve reduced NOx and particulate emissions each by more than 98 percent. We have reduced the health 
impact from our products significantly 
over that time, and so the attention of the EPA (the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency) is now moving on from NOx and particulate towards 
greenhouse gases. I think that’s the next 
big thing for the Company.
Greenhouse gas regulations, CO
2 
(carbon dioxide) emissions will be the 
driver of our emissions technology 
and efficiency technologies over the 
next decade or more, just as NOx and particulate have driven us in the past, and so we’re getting ready for that.q:  WHa T KINds OF THINGs  
CaN be dONe TO RedUCe  CO
2 emIssIONs?
a:  As we look at CO2 emissions, there are 
several things that you can do. There are things you can do with the fuel. So, you 
can go to lower carbon fuels, and we 
have a full line of natural gas products. Our engines are certified to run on  B20 (20 percent bio-diesel, 80 percent  
petro-diesel).
If you look at the additional technologies 
that we’ll have to meet CO
2 emissions, 
there are two major ones. Hybrid power-trains are systems that will capture the 
kinetic energy of the vehicle, store it in a 
battery, and then use that to accelerate the vehicle later, like a Toyota Prius, for example. Hybrids like that will come into 
commercial applications.
And the second is waste-heat recovery, 
and that’s really something that is quite old from a thermodynamics standpoint, but it’s new from a product standpoint. q&a with John Wall:
CO2 will drive future emissions efforts
Editor’s note: Cummins Vice President and Chief Technical Officer John Wall talks about emissions reduction and  
the Company’s future. Wall has been in his current post since 2000 and is celebrating his 25th year with Cummins.
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  63
INTRO    |    eNvIRONmeNT    |     GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
If you look at the energy that comes 
from the fuel tank, about a third of it makes it to the rear wheels of the 
vehicle, about a third of it goes out as 
waste heat in the exhaust, and about a third of it goes out as waste heat through the radiator. And so really,  
two-thirds of the fuel energy that you  
put in the tank gets lost before it ever makes it to the rear wheel.
q: HOW dOes CUmmINs’ 
GlObal FOOTpRINT aFFeCT 
THe COmpaNy FROm a 
TeCHNOlOGICal peRspeCTIve?
a: One of the important phrases that we use in Cummins is, “The right 
technology matters.” And the whole 
point of that is you don’t derive one solution and then try to drive that into every application. But in fact, you develop a portfolio of technologies and 
then understand which one of those 
match the specific applications that we’re trying to address, whether it’s  on-road or off-road applications, 
whether it’s in North America or India  
or China, and that’s really been a  strength of Cummins.
We have an organization of product line 
architects and their responsibility is to 
be able to develop worldwide platforms 
in a consistent way, but platforms that can then be optimized with different technologies and different components 
for different applications, depending on 
where they are in the world.q: HOW dId CUmmINs develOp  
ITs leadeRsHIp ROle IN RedUCING emIssIONs?
a: We talk a lot about technology, but our real competitive advantage is the people here that are developing the technology, and we have a long history of that, 
dating back – in my experience – 
to Dr. Alyn Lyn, who was the head of research at Cummins when I was in graduate school.
Dr. Lyn was an absolute lion in the 
industry. He was one of the first to do 
very detailed combustion modeling of the diesel engine process, looking at how we can reduce emissions and 
improve efficiency, and that means  
fuel economy, and also increase the power and performance of the engines. His legacy really lives on.
The initial modeling that he did gave us 
the foundation for what we call today 
Analysis-led Design. We apply it in our combustion and emissions analysis, we apply it in our machine design for 
structural analysis, and we’re able to 
integrate those solutions to deliver products that not only meet emissions, but also serve all of our customers with better fuel economy, better 
performance, and lower costs and  
more reliable products.64  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins believes much of its recent success is built on a strong governance foundation, 
starting with the Company’s 10 statements of ethical principles, which guide Cummins through the complexities of a global marketplace:
  1 We will follow the law – everywhere.
  2 We will embrace diverse perspectives and backgrounds and treat all people  
 with dignity and respect.
  3 We will compete fairly and honestly.
  4 We will avoid conflicts of interest.
  5 We will demand that everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier and  
 safer environment.
  6 We will protect our technology, our information and our intellectual property. 
  7 We will demand that our financial records and processes are clear and understandable.
  8 We will strive to improve our communities.
  9 We will communicate with honesty and integrity.
10 We will create a culture where all employees take responsibility for ethical behavior.GOveRNaNCe & RIsK maNaGemeNT 
Good governance foundation for success
HIGHlIGHTs
 »Ethics principles, Code of 
Conduct guide Cummins
 »Average time to close  Code of Conduct cases  falls significantly
 »Board of Directors adds  10
th memberBusiness success is rooted in strong 
governance principles that promote  
ethical behavior by both leaders and 
employees, and responsiveness to all  of a company’s stakeholders.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins, in turn, puts those statements 
into practice through an aggressive compliance training program targeting 
appropriate employee groups to promote 
ethical behavior. 
The Company’s policies and procedures  
in these areas are periodically updated. 
The Treatment Policy was updated in 2009, 
for example, to provide more guidance on manager-subordinate relationships. 
Both the Export Controls and the Anti-
Bribery/Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
courses were also updated in 2009 and 
offered to targeted employees to make sure they had up-to-date information.
Cummins started a new Internet-based 
training course in 2010 on Information 
Protection. The course covers sending classified or confidential data by email, electronic identity protection, acceptable use of the Internet, telecommuting and 
reporting procedures.2010 COmplIaNCe TRaINING
Course enrolled Completion  
   Rate
Code of Conduct 1,899 92%
Treatment of Others 1,813 92%
Anti-Bribery 2,082 93%
Export Compliance 12,753 92%
Antitrust 6,362 93%
EU Competition 131 95%
Careful Communication 6,234 89%
Intellectual Property 1,123 94%
Lobbying and  80 74% 
Political Action 
Managing within the Law 91 97%
Information Protection 17,662 93%
Fair Labor Standards Act 337 93%
Records and 10,868 85% 
Information Management 
Cummins Board of Directors traveled to Mexico in 2010 
to see the Company’s operations in San Luis Potosí. 
Later this year, they will visit China to learn more about 
the Company’s operations there. To learn more about 
the Board’s work, go to page 68.66  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
eTHICs vIOla TIONs, RepORTING 
aNd INvesTIGa TIONs
To support ethical behavior, Cummins 
has a global team of Master Investigators 
who respond to reports of violations to the Company’s Code of Conduct and make sure that appropriate action is taken in a timely fashion. The Company now has Master Investigators in nine regions of  
the world.
In 2010, the Company investigated  
814 Code of Conduct-related complaints compared to 699 in 2009. Forty-seven 
percent of the complaints in 2010 came 
from outside of the United States.
Of those cases investigated in 2010, 
57 percent resulted in a finding that the complaint had some merit and 35 percent 
resulted in employee terminations. Reports of unprofessional behavior and 
those grouped into the category of Human Relations accounted for more than half of the total Code of Conduct cases 
investigated in 2010.
The EthicsPoint system used at Cummins 
allows employees around the world to report concerns either through toll-free 
telephone numbers or on-line. Both services 
are available in multiple languages.
Employees can report concerns 
anonymously where allowed by law, but only about a quarter of the reports in 2010 
were made that way. Those reporting 
on any topic are protected under the Company’s anti-retaliation policy.
Following the recommendations of a  
Six Sigma project implemented in 2010,  
the Company reduced the average time  to close cases from 24 days in 2009 to  15 days in 2010.
The Company closely monitors reported 
violations. Each quarter, business unit 
leaders receive an update on reports in their regions. Chairman and CEO Tim Solso and President and COO Tom Linebarger also 
get updates, and an annual update  
is reviewed by the Audit Committee of  the Cummins Board of Directors.
Mark Levett, Vice President & 
General Manager, High Horsepower 
Engine Business, talks with Indiana 
Lt. Gov. Becky Skillman at the  
July 2010 announcement that 
Cummins would build a  
$200 million expansion of its 
Seymour Engine Plant to create a technical center and manufacturing 
line to design and produce a new 
high horsepower engine. 
Company officials are confident 
Cummins’ strong governance 
principles will help the Company 
with the challenges inherent in  
rapid growth.Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  67
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
eTHICs CeRTIFICa TION pROCess
In 2010, 15,266 employees completed  
their annual Ethics Certification including  
44 Company officers and all members of 
the Board of Directors. Employees certified their compliance with the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and underlying 
policies and reported any exceptions to 
Company policy.
Internal Audit and Cummins Law 
Department reviewed all exceptions to ensure they were documented and 
investigated, according to Company policy.
sUpplIeR COde OF CONdUCTCummins wants to do business with 
suppliers that share its passion for 
sustainable practices and policies. The 
Company’s Supplier Code of Conduct includes provisions banning child or forced labor, respecting employee rights and providing a safe workplace for employees.
The Company holds suppliers to a 
higher standard than just compliance with local laws. That’s why the code has been translated into more than a dozen 
languages. By the end of 2010, Cummins 
had sent the code to about 4,000 of its  top suppliers and all reported they were  in compliance.JOINT veNTURe Rela TIONsHIps
Cummins does business around the world through alliances with business partners 
and joint venture agreements to increase 
market penetration, streamline supply  chain management, expand product  lines and develop new technologies.
The Company takes appropriate steps 
to ensure they share Cummins values regardless of whether Cummins directly manages these alliances and joint ventures. Cummins screens potential partners 
carefully and only initiates a joint venture 
with partners whom Company leaders  know and trust. 
By making values important to Cummins 
a part of negotiations, and by ensuring 
Cummins employees are included on joint venture boards of directors, the Company strives to ensure its values are a part of  joint venture agreements and operations.68  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Board of Directors
Cummins Board of Directors added a 
10th member and visited the Company’s 
operations in San Luis Potosí, Mexico during a busy 2010.
Stephen B. Dobbs, Senior Group President 
over Fluor Corporation’s Industrial & Infrastructure and Global Services business groups, joined the Cummins Board in 2010.
Dobbs has worked at Fluor since 1980 
in numerous U.S. and international locations, including southern Africa, Europe and China. He earned his doctorate in engineering from Texas A&M University and 
holds an undergraduate degree in nuclear 
engineering from the same school.
“Steve is an accomplished leader who  
has significant experience in a number  
of markets where Cummins competes,” 
said Cummins Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso. “He also brings valuable international experience to the Board, which will serve Cummins well 
as the Company continues to expand its 
presence around the world.” abOUT THe bOaRd
The Board represents and protects  
the interests of Cummins’ stakeholders.  The Board has the legal responsibility  
for overseeing the affairs of the  
Company, including:
 »Advising senior management.
 »Adopting corporate governance  
principles consistent with Cummins’ 
Vision, Mission and Values.
 »Exercising sound and independent business judgment with respect  to significant, strategic and  
operational issues.
The Board takes an active role in fulfilling 
these responsibilities. It traveled to Mexico, for example, to see the Company’s multiple 
operations in San Luis Potosí including 
Cummins Filtration, ReCon and Regional Parts Distribution.
Cummins has had a wholly-owned 
manufacturing presence in San Luis 
Potosí since the early 1980s and employs 
approximately 2,000 people in the city.
This fall, the Board will travel to China to 
explore in detail the Company’s operations 
and opportunities there. Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  69
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
bOaRd RespONsIbIlITIes
The Board monitors a number of  
issues including:
 »The performance of the Company.
 »The performance of senior management.
 »Compliance with all applicable laws  and regulations.
 »Communications and relationships  with stakeholders.
 »The effectiveness of internal controls  and risk management practices.
To assist the Board with risk management, 
Cummins staff prepares a risk management 
“Dashboard” for every member each Board meeting. The Dashboard details the top risks facing the Company.
INTeRNal aUdIT
Cummins’ Internal Audit department 
provides the Board and senior leaders  with objective and independent information on the performance of the Company’s 
control environment.
The Executive Director – Internal Audit 
reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. In 2010, the Internal 
Audit Group published 101 audit reports and memos. To ensure management has 
addressed identified risks and implemented corrective action, Internal Audit has a formal 
follow-up process.
A business unit leader must present 
a corrective action plan to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors  
when a function or business receives  
an “Unacceptable” audit grade.
COmmITTeesCummins Board of Directors has six 
standing committees:
 »Executive Committee
 »Compensation Committee
 »Governance and Nominating Committee
 »Audit Committee
 »Finance Committee
 »Safety, Environment and  
Technology Committee
The Company complies with all New 
York Stock Exchange and regulatory requirements concerning the membership of certain committees.70  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
RObeRT J. beRNHaRd
Vice President for Research and 
a professor in the Department 
of Aerospace and Mechanical 
Engineering at the University of Notre 
Dame. He joined the board in 2008.
FRaNKlIN R. CHaNG-dIaZ
Founder, Chairman and CEO of 
Ad Astra Rocket Company, a U.S. 
spaceflight engineering company 
based in Houston, Texas. He joined 
the Board in 2009.
sTepHeN b. dObbs
Senior Group President at Fluor 
Corporation. He joined the Board  
in 2010.
RObeRT K. HeRdmaN
Managing Director of Kalorama 
Partners, LLC, a Washington, D.C.-
based consulting firm. He joined the 
Board in 2008.
alexIs m. HeRmaN
Chairman and CEO of New  
Ventures, LLC, a corporate  
consulting company. She joined  
the Board in 2001 and currently 
serves as Lead Director.THeOdORe (TIm) m. sOlsO
Chairman and CEO of Cummins Inc. 
since 2000 after serving as Company 
president since 1995. He joined the 
Board in 1994.N. THOmas lINebaRGeR
President and Chief Operating  
Officer of Cummins Inc. He joined  
the Board in 2009.CaRl W aRe
Retired Executive Vice President, 
Public Affairs and Administration, the 
Coca-Cola Co. He joined the Board 
in 2004.GeORGIa R. NelsON
President and CEO of PTI Resources, 
LLC, an independent consulting firm. 
She joined the Board in 2004.WIllIam I. mIlleR
President of the New York-based 
Wallace Foundation focused on K-12 
education and the arts. He joined the 
Board in 1989.
Board MembersCummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  71
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Sustainability means managing risks
At Cummins, risk management takes  
many forms. 
It’s the development of Business Continuity 
Plans to keep Company sites across the 
globe up and running if disaster strikes. It’s developing new ways to protect and secure information so Cummins can continue to 
innovate for our customers. It’s training 
Cummins employees to travel safely as  they work around the world.
Cummins believes strongly that companies 
failing to manage risk effectively have a 
harder time investing to build stronger 
communities or taking steps to shrink  their carbon footprint. In short, effective  risk management is essential to any 
sustainable business. 
That’s why senior leaders at Cummins 
maintain a list of the top threats facing the Company that is constantly updated and frequently assign Six Sigma Black 
Belts to research those potential threats 
and develop possible actions. Leaders also present a “Risk Map” and a “Risk Dashboard” to members of the Board of 
Directors at every Board meeting so they 
stay informed.“Effective risk management means protecting yourself from the risks you know about,” said Brian McBroom, Cummins 
Director of Risk Management, “and 
preparing yourself to react to the risks you don’t see coming.” 
bUsINess CONTINUITy plaNs
Over the past 12 months, the Company 
continued to make progress in establishing Business Continuity Plans for the most critical Cummins locations. The Company now has completed plans for more than 
100 locations, but as Cummins grows, the 
list of sites needing plans grows, too.
These plans include detailed information on 
crisis communications, operational recovery 
and emergency preparedness. Upon 
completion, the plans are transferred to local leaders who update them annually.
Floods in Nashville, Tenn. and Australia 
and earthquakes in China, Haiti, Chile and 
Japan over the past two years underscore 
the urgency to get the plans completed. To protect Cummins’ supply chain against similar risks, suppliers have also been  
asked to create and maintain their own 
continuity plans.72  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
INTeRNa TIONal TRavel
In the past year, Cummins Global Security 
staff has taken several steps to build 
on creation of the Travel Safe Travel 
Smart Web site in 2010 to aid Cummins employees who travel frequently. The site links employees to the iJET Intelligent Risk 
Systems, which provides around-the-clock 
medical, security and travel support. 
By accessing iJET’s Web site, employees 
can get in-depth reports on the security status of the locations they will be visiting. 
Working with iJET, Cummins recently 
enhanced its monitoring of Company travelers. No matter what time of day an incident happens around the world, an 
assessment is completed to determine 
whether any Cummins personnel or assets could be affected.
The iJET monitoring system then notifies the 
appropriate members of the global security 
team so they can react accordingly. This 
ensures the staff is responding to global events affecting Cummins travelers even if they happen in the middle of the night or on 
a holiday.Cummins is also working with Global 
Rescue, a Boston-based firm that assists companies with evacuation and emergency 
response around-the-world. Global Rescue 
specializes in evacuating people from remote or high-risk locations. The firm also helps develop emergency action plans 
for certain high-risk destinations where 
Cummins sends employees.
Finally, in 2011, Cummins is rolling out 
online training for employees who travel for their jobs. The first phase focuses on 
employees who travel to high-risk areas. 
The second phase will include employees who travel to countries with moderate to low risks. 
The training covers all phases of travel  
from departure to hotel stays and road travel. Some elements covered by the training include avoiding displaying Cummins logos in public, taking different 
routes to work sites and heightening 
awareness of surroundings. Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  73
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
GOveRNmeNT Rela TIONs aNd 
pOlITICal aCTIvITy
Cummins maintains an office in Washington, 
D.C. to coordinate government relations 
activities and monitor changes that might have a significant impact on the Company, such as energy policy, environmental 
legislation, taxes, trade and transportation 
policy to name just a few.
For example, Cummins worked extensively 
in Washington to protect the EPA’s 2010 heavy duty on-highway emissions standards 
from delay or modification. The Company 
also supported the government’s effort to establish the first-ever greenhouse gas and fuel consumption standards for commercial 
vehicles, which likely will take effect in the 
middle of this decade. 
The Company belongs to a number of 
trade organizations to further its business interests. These organizations help 
Cummins by leveraging the Company’s 
resources with other companies on  issues where we share similar interests. While Cummins might not agree with the 
positions these associations take on every 
issue, the Company believes participating  in these groups helps ensure the Company’s voice is heard.Cummins’ current policies ban political contributions using corporate funds to candidates, political parties or independent 
expenditure campaigns.
Political contributions are made by the 
Cummins Inc. Political Action Committee (CIPAC), but the committee is funded  
solely by voluntary employee contributions. 
CIPAC makes contributions to federal candidates on a bipartisan basis after review and approval by CIPAC’s Executive Committee and according to federal law.
For a complete list of the political action 
committee’s contributions to candidates,  go to www.fec.gov. GOveRNaNCe aNd RIsK maNaGemeNT CHalleNGes
Training
Maintaining Cummins culture 
will be critical as the Company enters a significant growth 
period. Compliance training  
will be key.
Travel Safety
More employees are expected 
to travel as the global economy 
recovers making monitoring 
global travelers more important  than ever.
Business Continuity Plans
As Cummins grows, the 
number of critical sites needing emergency plans grows, too. Keeping up will be critical. 74  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
CUmmINs paC
The Cummins Inc. Political Action 
Committee (CIPAC) is governed by 
corporate policies and by-laws that state:
 »All CIPAC contributions are  
strictly voluntary.
 »The Company will not reimburse 
employees directly or indirectly for 
political contributions.
 »Employees will not be pressured to contribute to CIPAC or make any other 
personal political contribution.
 »A decision not to contribute to CIPAC shall not disadvantage an employee’s 
career in any way.
Contributions to political candidates and political organizations are based on the following criteria:
 »Public integrity of the candidate.
 »Representation of a Cummins facility  
or employees.
 »Support for issues of importance  to Cummins.
 »Timely and effective constituent service.
 »Political leadership or organization.
 »Support for the Company’s values.
All of CIPAC’s political activities are 
disclosed to the Cummins Board of Directors in an annual political  contribution report.lObbyING
Here is a list of the trade organizations to 
which Cummins paid dues in excess of 
$50,000 during calendar year 2010 and  
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which  fell below that $50,000 threshold. Listed with each entity is Cummins’ estimation  
of the portion of these dues used by  
each organization for lobbying or other political expenditures.
Group
Amount for lobbying
The american Trucking associations
The business Roundtable
The diesel Technology Forum
  $127
The engine manufacturers 
association
The National association of 
manufacturers
   
U.s. Chamber of Commerce
         $11,930
$12,500$21,012$30,326
$8,682INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOveRNaNCe / RIsK maNaGemeNT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Joplin branch learns life can change in an instant
The employees of Cummins Central Power 
branch in Joplin, Mo., know how quickly life can change.
At 5:41 p.m. on May 22, 2011, a mile-wide 
tornado with winds topping 200 miles per hour roared through the western Missouri town, killing more than 150 people and 
leaving a wide swath of destruction 
including the Central Power facility in Joplin.
Thankfully, Cummins employees and their 
families were safe although some extended family members suffered personal losses.
Fred Venhoff, Vice President and General 
Manager of Cummins Central Power, learned about the tornado when he  was passing through the state just a few 
hours away.
“I headed to Joplin loaded with containers 
of water and gasoline and a small generator,” Venhoff said. “The first thing that struck me on arrival was that I could see 
across the entire city and nothing looked 
the same. It was even hard to recognize the property where the branch had set for  many years.”
The Cummins facility lost a 40- by 80-foot 
storage building, along with a semitrailer 
used for storing parts. Automobiles blown  in from neighboring properties were scattered about the site.
“All of our service trucks and four  
customer vehicles suffered severe  damage and had blown against one  another inside the building until the  roof collapsed,” Venhoff said.
In short order, Venhoff and his employees 
developed and implemented a recovery plan. Slowly but surely, the Joplin area  is clearing the rubble and rebuilding.
“In general, the morale and attitude  
of our people have been very positive despite the overwhelming devastation and their personal losses,” Venhoff said. “Everyone has been eager to help one 
another and do whatever necessary to  
aid in the support of those in need.”
Before and after pictures of the 
Cummins Central Power branch in 
Joplin, Mo., which was in the path 
of a May 22, 2011 tornado that 
destroyed much of the town.  
Winds topped 200 miles per hour 
and left a wide swath of destruction.76  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
In the past 12 months, Cummins has 
embedded 11 full-time Corporate Responsibility leaders in its business units 
in North America and in various countries 
around the world including Brazil, China, India and Mexico to coordinate community involvement activities. 
In addition, Cummins conducted regional 
conferences in Brazil, China, India, the United Kingdom and the United States in the past year to promote community involvement work and Cummins’ Business 
Case for Corporate Responsibility. 
Cummins has also included Corporate 
Responsibility in the initial planning for  major new initiatives such as increasing  
the Company’s presence in Africa.
Jean Blackwell, Cummins’ Executive Vice 
President – Corporate Responsibility, says the Company now has the organization in place to both help improve communities 
around the world and at the same time 
strengthen the Company.“I see Corporate Responsibility as really  two fold,” she said. “It’s first aligning with our vision and mission and our values 
of making our communities better. And 
second, it’s about aligning with our strategic goals – that we will do better as a company if our communities are healthier, if society  
is more just, and if we have a better 
educated workforce.”
emplOyee INvOlvemeNTCummins has long believed that a 
Company is only as strong as the 
communities where it does business 
and where its employees live and work. Because most employees want to make a difference in their communities, Corporate 
Responsibility also helps create the right 
environment for Cummins’ success, aiding in both recruiting new workers and retaining existing employees.CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy
A growing commitment to community involvement
HIGHlIGHTs
 »Company embeds 
Corporate Responsibility leaders in business units
 »Sponsors regional Corporate Responsibility conferences across the world
 »About 6,700 employees participate in 86 projects as part of the Company’s second Environmental ChallengeTo fulfill its Corporate Responsibility value to  
“serve and improve the communities in which  
we live,” Cummins has made an unprecedented  
effort to integrate community involvement into the way the Company does business.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  77Working through a network of  
170 employee-led Community  Involvement Teams across the globe, 
Cummins tackles hundreds of community 
improvement initiatives each year.
In fact, participation in the Every  
Employee Every Community (EEEC) 
program reached record levels in 2010. 
More than 27,000 employees – about  62 percent of the Company’s workforce – donated 110,757 hours in 2010. 
Under the program, the Company pays  
for employees to work on EEEC projects 
for at least four hours per year and much longer in many cases.
The Corporate Responsibility staff also 
conducted a second Environmental 
Challenge in 2010 to encourage Community Involvement Teams to leverage the Company’s environmental expertise to address community concerns (page 86).Fifteen projects were honored ranging  from initiatives to recycle cooking oil in  Brazil (page 81), to replacing dirty,  
inefficient stoves in villages in India  
(page 91), to reducing energy consumption by a community center in the United States.  
The winning initiatives received $10,000 
each from The Cummins Foundation  
for use by the not-for-profit organization  of their choice.
About 6,700 employees from 13 different 
countries participated in the 86 projects 
entered in the 2010 Environmental 
Challenge. They collectively reduced greenhouse gases by an estimated  709 tons.
“These winning projects made a difference 
in Cummins communities around the world,” said Carole Casto, Cummins Director of Community Engagement.  “I’m constantly amazed by our employees’ 
creativity and dedication.”
Students at the Cummins- 
supported Ithemba Institute  
of Technology in Soweto are 
learning critical job skills that  
are in demand in South Africa.78  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
UNITed Way
Cummins U.S. employees also donated a 
record amount to the United Way in 2011. 
Employees pledged $2.12 million. When 
combined with a matching gift from The Cummins Foundation and other fundraising, the local contribution resulted in a total gift 
of $4.26 million to United Way in 2011.
At the Rocky Mount Engine Plant (RMEP)  
in Rocky Mount, N.C., a record-breaking  80 percent of the employees participated in 2011 – the highest United Way participation 
rate of any Cummins location in the United 
States. RMEP employees pledged a total  of $176,893.
In recognition of their outstanding efforts, 
Rocky Mount employees were presented 
a Spirit of North Carolina Award for their exceptional campaign by the United Way  of North Carolina in February 2011.sIGNIFICaNT paRTNeRsHIps
Cummins also continued work in 2010 
and 2011 on several special partnerships 
around the world that are addressing a 
range of concerns including sustainable agriculture, the lack of women engineers  in India, people with developmental 
disabilities in Minnesota and more.
The Company has made significant 
investments in these partnerships in addition to contributing employees’  time and expertise. They include:
 »The Courage Center: Cummins employees in Fridley, Minn. work with the Minneapolis-based center whose mission is to help those with brain and 
spinal cord injuries and developmental 
disabilities. Company employees modify a wide-range of equipment and toys so the center’s clients can experience more productive and fulfilling lives.
A similar initiative involving Cummins 
employees is taking place at the Willoughby School near Stamford in the United Kingdom and the two regularly 
share best practices.
 »Cummins College of engineering  
for Women: Cummins has long supported this college based in Pune, India, created to educate women who 
have been under-represented in the field 
of engineering.“Corporate Responsibility is only effective as a company  
if we add something to it; if we add our skills, if we add  
our passion, if it furthers our strategic goals.”
JeaN blaCKWell 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT – CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CORpORa Te 
RespONsIbIlITy CHalleNGes
Values
Instilling in new employees  
an understanding of the Company’s Corporate 
Responsibility value as  
Cummins experiences  rapid growth.
Metrics
Establishing and implementing 
metrics to measure the impact 
of community projects and the effectiveness of employee-led Community Involvement  
Teams (CITs).
Leadership
Developing strong leadership 
support for community involvement activities.  »eaRTH University: This school 
in Costa Rica teaches sustainable agriculture and entrepreneurship to 
students who might never have afforded 
college. They are urged to share what they learned with others when they  return home.
 »Ithemba Institute of Technology: The high school and technical institute in Soweto, South Africa, provides a technical education to students who would otherwise not have access to 
higher education. The training program 
provides students with critical job skills while also preparing Cummins’ workforce for tomorrow.
Cummins is able to financially support these and other initiatives through The Cummins Foundation (page 93), one of the oldest corporate foundations in the United States. But donating money is a relatively small  
part of Cummins’ Corporate  
Responsibility initiatives.
“If you think about corporate responsibility 
as merely philanthropy, as merely giving 
money, then I don’t know that it is 
something a company should engage in,” Blackwell said. “Corporate Responsibility is only effective as a company if we add something to it; if we add our skills,  
if we add our passion, if it furthers our 
strategic goals.”Global priority areas
Cummins’ Corporate Responsibility efforts 
are focused on three global priority areas:
1 THe eNvIRONmeNT
2 edUCa TION
3 sOCIal JUsTICe
“We looked at what areas we could focus on that would bring 
something extra to the table – our skills, our reputation, our ability to help,” said Jean Blackwell, Executive Vice President of 
Corporate Responsibility.
“We also looked at where it aligned with our employees’ 
passion so that it would be something our employees wanted to engage in. And the three that rose to the top – the environment, 
education and social justice – also aligned with our business 
growth strategies.”
Blackwell says addressing these priority areas will be critical the 
Company’s future growth plans.
“As we think about growth in many new markets – growth in 
Turkey, growth in Africa, growth in many countries in Asia, for 
example – many of the things we see as barriers to our growth are aligned with our priority areas,” she said.80  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Building stronger communities in Brazil
Luis Pasquotto, Vice President – 
Engine Business Latin America, 
visits with some of the employees 
at Cummins’ Brazil’s sewing 
cooperative.Rosilene Souza first learned about 
Cummins Brazil when her daughter started attending a school sponsored by the 
Company in Guarulhos not far from the  
São Paulo-Guarulhos International Airport.
Now, Souza is part of a sewing cooperative 
sponsored by Cummins Brazil’s Corporate 
Responsibility program where she is 
learning skills that are helping the single mother support her two children.
“I think there should be more companies 
helping the community, following the 
example of Cummins,” said Souza, 
surrounded by white sewing machines paid for in part by donations from visiting senior leaders at the Company. Familiar with a 
similar initiative started earlier by Cummins 
employees in Mexico, the leaders wanted to help get a cooperative successfully launched in Brazil.
“If this program did not exist, it would not 
only be bad for me, it would be bad for 
other families,” Souza said.
Cummins Brazil’s leaders strongly believe  
in Cummins’ philosophy that a company  
is only as strong as the communities where 
it does business and where its employees live and work.
Led by Luis Pasquotto, Vice President –  
Engine Business Latin America, Cummins 
Brazil supports a wide range of community 
involvement activities including several school-based initiatives, a job/leadership program for teens, the sewing cooperative, 
a community center and the Clessie 
Cummins Health Clinic, which this year celebrated its 20
th anniversary.
GUaRUlHOs (sÃO p aUlO) 
BRAZILINTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  81Many of Cummins Brazil’s community 
involvement initiatives are connected with the Company’s campus in Guarulhos. Most 
of the residents living outside the campus 
gates are poor, with little or no education. Many live in crowded conditions, often with little more than a roof over their heads – and 
sometimes not that.
“We have big disparities,” said Pasquotto, 
during a recent visit to the sewing cooperative. “We live surrounded by a neighborhood that is poor. And for many of these people, they 
just don’t have a chance to succeed in their 
lives. They don’t have jobs. They don’t have access to education in many cases. …Many times, all they need is a little help.”
Cummins Brazil’s programs not only  
provide residents with medical and dental care, educational and recreational opportunities and job-training, they also provide hope in what can be a pretty 
desperate place at times.
Carlos Derman, Guarulhos City Hall Health 
Secretary, said Cummins’ Corporate Responsibility initiatives are very important 
to the city.
“Many people are moving to Guarulhos with 
a lot of needs in terms of health, housing, and education,” Derman said. “And the City Hall, sometimes, has difficulty in solving all 
these problems. So the partnership (with 
Cummins) for us, is very important.”
Pasquotto said he has seen firsthand the 
positive impact from Cummins Corporate 
Responsibility efforts. Participants who 
have completed the required training in the sewing cooperative are producing uniforms for Cummins and other companies and are getting a regular paycheck.“The ladies that are here, it’s the first time that they have a job, an activity. So they  feel more productive,” Pasquotto said. 
“They feel more integrated in the society.  
So this is great because around them there are other people who depend on them.”
Employees, meanwhile, say in addition to 
the satisfaction that comes with helping 
others, they feel better about the Company they work for when they engage in Corporate Responsibility activities.
“I think it’s important to help people and I 
feel great that I work for a company that 
supports people,” said Rosemeire Silva,  a Materials Leader with the Cummins  Power Generation in Brazil.
The wide range of initiatives sponsored  
by the Company reflects the many challenges Brazil faces, said Cummins Brazil Director of Human Resources Roberto Torres. He said government  
can’t solve all of those challenges.
“We really, really believe the community 
work, the social work, is important for the Company, for the citizens and for the city,” 
Torres said. “If you live in a place with very 
healthy, well-educated people, that’s going to improve business not only for Cummins but for the entire community.” 
Souza, for one, is optimistic about her 
future. She moved into a better house 
recently and her son is now part of the teen leadership and job readiness program sponsored by Cummins. She says she feels 
like she’s building a better life not just for 
herself but for her children, too.
aWaRd WINNeR
Oil recycling project  
wins challenge
A Cummins Brazil Corporate 
Responsibility initiative to collect 
and recycle used cooking oil was 
one of 15 projects across the Company honored during the  2010 Environmental Challenge.
The project kept oil from reaching 
area water supplies. Cummins 
Brazil worked with a company that 
turns the used oil into bio-diesel and soap. Money raised by recycling  
the oil was used to purchase food 
for a local day care center.
Cummins Brazil’s Community 
Involvement Team received a $10,000 grant from The Cummins Foundation for the not-for-profit 
community partner of its choice.82  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
There’s something fishy going on here
Bicycling and fish would seem to have  
very little in common. But for one city  in China, they are the foundation of a  
major environmental cleanup and 
awareness project.
Cummins employees in Wuxi, China 
are working to clean Lake Taihu, one of 
the country’s largest freshwater lakes, 
renowned for its scenic beauty. An estimated 30 million people rely on the lake for drinking water including over 1 million residents of Wuxi – about a quarter of the 
city’s total population. 
Employees at Cummins Generator 
Technologies (CGT) have focused their community involvement efforts on the 
environment in the past. But employees 
wanted to have a larger, more lasting impact in 2010. Though the task was tall by almost any standard, they were not intimidated by the challenge of improving the water quality 
of Taihu.
Previously a major tourist attraction, Taihu 
has been ravaged by pollution as a result of rapid economic growth in the surrounding 
area. After years of dumping by small 
factories and crab farms along the shore, a toxic blue-green algae overtook the lake, contaminating the water supply.
“We wanted to make a significant difference 
in our community, and helping to reverse 
the decline of Taihu seemed like a good place to channel our efforts,” said Yichan Wang, Cummins’ Corporate Responsibility leader for China. 
To tackle this issue, CGT employees 
partnered with their colleagues from Cummins Turbo Technologies and Wuxi Vane to form a roughly 1,200-member core 
of employees, primary school students and 
Wuxi residents. 
Cummins employees began thinking about 
the best way to be involved and soon concluded that the real opportunity wasn’t 
just in assisting with cleanup efforts at the 
lake. They wanted to also educate the local community about the water quality issues at Taihu and change the mind-set that 
individual actions have little impact on  
the environment.
To kick off their awareness campaign, 
employees distributed materials to residents on how they could care for the environment. 
As a more active demonstration, 50 cyclists laKe TaIHU
WUXI, CHINA
aWaRd WINNeR
The Lake Taihu project was one 
of 15 efforts across the Company 
honored during the 2010 Cummins 
Environmental Challenge.
The Cummins Foundation awarded 
each winning project a $10,000 grant that can be given to the not-for-profit of the winning Community 
Involvement Team’s choice.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  83modeled one way to live a low-carbon 
lifestyle by taking a bike ride through the city – some with colorful banners flying from 
the back of their bikes. And the coalition 
held a community fair with lots of activities designed to educate residents about  how they could help improve Taihu’s  
water quality.
Then, it was time to get down and dirty.  
Five hundred volunteers spent several  hours scouring the area around the lake collecting garbage, 60 percent of which  
was recyclable. 
The coalition next focused their attention 
on the water. Cleaning the lake was done through manpower and “fish power.” First, 
employees partnered with the community to 
scoop 240 tons of blue-green algae out of the lake. Then it was the fish’s turn. 
More than 8,600 fish were released into the 
lake. They are expected to eat an estimated 172 tons of blue-green algae annually.  The primary algae-eating fish are silver  carp. One fish can consume 110 pounds  
of algae and other plankton in its lifetime 
while gaining only 2.2 pounds in weight. 
“We were so excited to be able to make 
such a visible difference to the lake,” 
Yichan said after initial efforts concluded. 
“Our clean-up work will allow residents to once again feel safe about their drinking water. Personally, I’m also very proud to see how many residents came out for our 
environmental awareness fair to learn about 
how they can make a difference, too.”
A three- to five-year strategy has been 
put in place to continue with clean-up 
efforts and the fish release at Lake Taihu. 
More than 3,600 volunteer hours from 900 employees were invested in this comprehensive endeavor to return one  of China’s most beautiful natural landmarks 
to its former splendor.
Cummins employees in Wuxi, China 
are helping to introduce fish that 
will eat the blue-green algae that 
plagues Lake Taihu.84  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins empowering remote populations
An estimated 1.4 billion people worldwide – 
about 20 percent of the global population – don’t have access to electricity, according  
to the International Energy Agency (IEA). 
About 85 percent of these people live in remote or rural areas. 
That’s not likely to change soon. By 2030, 
experts estimate 1.2 billion people will still 
lack access to electricity and by then 87 percent will be living in rural or remote areas. 
Access to electricity, however, is essential 
to fulfilling basic human needs. That is why 
Cummins is exploring ways power can be brought to people living in remote areas. 
The Company is involved in rural 
electrification efforts in Latin America,  
Africa and India. These efforts align with  
the Company’s Corporate Responsibility priority for social justice and improving the human condition. In addition, Cummins is uniquely positioned to tackle this problem 
through its Power Generation Business  
Unit and its global reach. padaRW adI
INDIA
aWaRd WINNeR
The Padarwadi project was 
one of 15 efforts across the 
Company honored during 
the 2010 Environmental Challenge overseen by Cummins Corporate 
Responsibility staff.
The initiative received special 
recognition as the “Best 
Continuation of a Project” and  
“Best Technical Project.” 
The Cummins Foundation 
awarded each winning project 
with a $10,000 grant that can 
be given to the not-for-profit of the winning Community Involvement Team’s choice.Cummins India employees  
helped residents of Padarwadi  
carry in a generator so they  
could mill rice close to home.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  85“Rural electrification is a prime example 
where societal needs, our leadership, our employees’ passion and Cummins 
core capabilities intersect,” said Emily 
Johnson, Cummins’ Director of Corporate Responsibility Strategic Investments.
But reducing the number of people 
without access to electricity is a significant 
challenge. Providing power to remote villages through decentralized, off-the-grid power generation systems has been attempted before only to be overwhelmed 
by the inherent challenges. 
The Company’s efforts to get power to  
the village of Padarwadi in Western India  in 2011 illustrate both the challenges and 
the rewards.
Village residents worked with Cummins 
India and a non-governmental organization to get a specially-built power generation system, fueled by vegetable oil from the 
seeds of indigenous trees, to Padarwadi,  
as well as machinery to produce the oil  and a rice mill.
Padarwadi, however, is only accessible by 
a narrow, twisting, mountain path. So all of 
the equipment, including a heavy generator, had to be disassembled in the nearest town and carried to Padarwadi – on foot.
pOWeRING p adaRW adI
Padarwadi’s 10 households are nestled in 
a large forest preserve. The residents grow about 35 metric tons of rice a year, but had no way to remove the hulls in the village.  
So they had to make approximately  
1,800 annual treks across mountainous terrain to get their rice to the nearest mill.  Then, the villagers had to barter to get  their rice hulled. 
Cummins India provided the villagers with a 
15 kVA genset in 2010 that could be fueled 
with either the oil from indigenous seeds or diesel. The genset was needed to run machinery to extract the oil from the seeds, 
hull the rice and produce flour. Everything 
had to be carried in before the rainy season started in June.
Cummins employees worked with village 
residents and the non-governmental 
organization to break down the equipment 
and carry it down the mountain path. The generator engine – some 250 kilograms or more than 500 pounds – was attached to 
two long wooden poles and carried in by  
20 village men – some barefoot.
The automated operation now in place has 
made a huge difference. Villagers can sell any excess rice at full market price (the 
price of rice in the husk is just a fraction 
of hulled rice). In addition, residents can market the rice hulls as fertilizer as well as the seed cake left after the oil is extracted.
S. Ravichandran, Cummins’ Corporate 
Responsibility Leader for India, said the project has made a huge difference in the village, especially for the village children  who also formerly helped carry rice to town.
“The villagers now have a lot more time to 
improve their farming,” Ravichandran said. “Farm production is expected to double because time and energy that used to be 
spent walking the rice to town can now be 
devoted to other activities.”RURal  
eleCTRIFICa TION’s 
FUTURe
Cummins has taken the early 
lessons it learned on rural electrification and created a 
program office focused on: 
 »Creating a sustainable 
economic model for use in rural areas rather than merely 
using rural electrification as  
a learning laboratory. 
 »Providing leadership and management opportunities for Cummins employees by 
creating projects that employ 
a full range of business skills. 
“In Padarwadi, by providing a source of income, villagers are 
better able to internalize the 
benefits of power and make the effort to sustain fuel-seed collection,” said Emily Johnson, Cummins Director of Corporate 
Responsibility Strategic 
Investment. “Ideally, that will enable them to improve their standard of living.” 86  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
2nd Environmental Challenge yields great results
In pursuit of its mission to break the cycle 
of poverty on Indianapolis’ eastside, the Shepherd Community Center hadn’t given  
a lot of thought to its light bulbs.
After all, there was plenty to do 
making 15,000 meals per year, helping neighborhood children with their homework 
and preparing younger children for success 
in school.
But then a team from Cummins did  
an energy audit at the Center and discovered Shepherd could save more  
than $20,000 annually by replacing more 
than 600 inefficient fluorescent lights with energy-efficient bulbs costing a tenth of what it would save. The light bulb went on for Cummins’ Community Involvement Team (CIT) in Indianapolis, which worked with Duke 
Energy to purchase the bulbs at a discount 
for $1,500. CIT members then installed the bulbs at the Center.
“The savings we’re anticipating can go to 
programming for children and their families,” 
said Jay Height, Shepherd’s Executive Director. “Any way we can make our  dollars go further is critically important  to Shepherd.”
The Shepherd project was one of  
15 winners in Cummins’ 2
nd Annual 
Community Environmental Challenge.  The winning projects each received  
$10,000 that could be donated to the  
not-for-profit organization of their choice.
More than 6,700 Cummins employees from 
13 countries worked on 86 projects during 
the challenge, donating almost 38,000 
hours to their communities. That’s up from the first year of the initiative when 3,200 employees from 11 countries participated.
“We think the Environmental Challenge 
is a great way for Cummins to leverage 
its environmental expertise to help communities with some of the key challenges they’re facing,” said Carole 
Casto, Director – Community Engagement. 
Cummins employee Rob Norris 
installs an energy-efficient  
light bulb that will help the  
Shepherd Community Center  
save on its utility bills.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  87The 15 winners came from seven different 
countries and ranged from a cleanup project of one of China’s largest freshwater 
lakes (page 82), to installing cleaner, more 
efficient cooking stoves in a village near Cummins new Megasite in Phaltan, India 
(page 91). 
CRea TING OUTdOOR ClassROOms
In the United Kingdom, employees at 
Cummins Generator Technologies in 
Stamford took an overgrown section of 
the Malcolm Sargent School campus and converted it into an outdoor classroom, where school children can learn about  and interact with plants and wildlife.
Employees cleared away weeds and 
repaired a small wooden bridge so children could walk over a marshy area and get a close-up view of some of the plants and 
wildlife. They also built a “mini beast hotel,” 
a small, partially enclosed area designed to 
encourage the presence of small creatures, 
insects and bugs by replicating their  natural habitat.“The reaction from the children has been amazing with them wanting to use the area as much as possible and explore real 
hands-on learning,” said Project Leader  
Bev Lewis, a Project Manager at Cummins. 
GReeNING OUR COmmUNITIes
Meanwhile, employees at Cummins’ New 
and ReCon Parts facility in San Luis Potosí, Mexico, were honored for their efforts to plant trees throughout the community.  
For several years, employees have planted 
trees at local schools, parks and on the Engine Business property.
Their passion was reignited when Cummins 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Tim Solso visited in February 2010 and 
talked about Earth Day and Cummins’ commitment to celebrating it by planting as many as 50,000 trees worldwide. 
Cummins employees in San Luis Potosí 
have now planted more than 4,500 trees. 
The project had a goal of planting as many 
trees as possible from May to October 
Employees at Cummins Generator 
Technologies in Stamford (U.K.) 
work to create an outdoor 
classroom for the students at the 
Malcolm Sargent School.88  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
in 2010. One of the challenges of the 
project was obtaining trees for planting. So employees set up their own nursery 
with trees and technical help from two 
companies that wanted to be part of the reforestation effort.
Once the trees were planted, Cummins 
employees – led by Patricia Rojas, Safety 
and Environment Manager, and Edna Espinosa, Environmental Engineer – maintained them to ensure proper growth. 
ReaCHING OUT TO OTHeRs
In many cases, Cummins employees 
partnered with charities, schools, government agencies and other groups to carry out Environmental Challenge projects.
A team from Cummins Generator 
Technologies (CGT) in Craiova, Romania,  for example, worked with students at  Saint Vasile School, a school for children with hearing and speaking disabilities. 
Led by Tiberiu Olaru, a manager at CGT, 
Cummins employees learned how to 
communicate with the students and showed them the importance of caring  for the environment. 
Working together, they cleaned a small area 
in a park in the northern part of Craiova that was overgrown with weeds and had become a dumping ground for all kinds of material. In all, some 400 bags of garbage 
and about 40 tons of construction and 
other debris were removed.
As Olaru noted, the project showed the 
students, Cummins employees and the 
community that working together people 
can make a difference – regardless of age or ability.2010 eNvIRONmeNT al CHalleNGe
WINNERS’ LOCATIONS
Winners of the 2010  
Environmental Challenge  
come from across the globe.  
In some cases, multiple  
Cummins entities won from  the same location.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  89CHaTURsHRINGI GReeN HIlls  Pune, India 
This reforestation project by Cummins Power Generation India went beyond previous planting initiatives to include watering, fertilizing, 
weeding and general care for trees on the hillsides outside of Pune.
COmmUNITy GIvING GaRdeN  Fridley, Minn.
Cummins Power Generation in Fridley, Minn. raised vegetables for organizations that feed the hungry using Straw Bale Gardening,  
a form of gardening that employs straw bales as both a source of nutrients and a container of sorts. 
CRTI bIO-Gas pROJeCT  Maharashtra, India
Cummins Research and Technology India employees are working to get a former bio-gas plant running again to provide  
low-income residents and others nearby with a source of safe and relatively inexpensive energy.   
eNeRGy -eFFICIeNT sTOves  Phaltan, India
The Cummins India Limited Industrial Engine Business Unit led a project to replace inefficient wood stoves in a village near Cummins 
new Megasite in Phaltan, India with cooking stoves that emit 80 percent less smoke and require 30 percent less wood (page 91). 
malCOlm saRGeNT sCHOOl  Stamford, U.K.
Cummins Generator Technologies employees created an outdoor classroom on the school grounds out of an overgrown section of the 
school’s campus. Children at the school can now learn about nature and interact with plants and wildlife.
pOTable W aTeR pROJeCT  Chafulla, India
Cummins India employees worked with a middle school in Chafulla, India to provide it with safe drinking water by using a rain water 
collection system with a purification system that runs on solar energy. 
ReCyClING COOKING OIl  Guarulhos, Brazil
Cummins Brazil has established special stations inside its main campus to collect used cooking oil so it doesn’t foul area water supplies. 
Employees bring in bottles of the used oil which is sold to a non-governmental organization that uses it to produce bio diesel and soap. Money raised by recycling the oil is used to purchase food for a local day care center. 
ReFOResT aTION pROJeCT  San Luis Potosí, Mexico
Cummins New and ReCon Parts employees have been planting hundreds of trees over the past several years to replace those lost to 
development and established its own nursery to guarantee a steady supply.
sHepHeRd COmmUNITy CeNTeR  Indianapolis, Ind.
Corporate employees have been partnering with a local community center to find ways the center can save on its energy bills.  
The employees purchased $1,500 worth of energy-efficient light bulbs that could annually save the center as much as $20,000. WINNING pROJeCTs
Here’s a look at the 2010 Community Environmental Challenge winners:90  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
laKe T aIHU  Wuxi, China
Cummins employees from Cummins Generator Technologies, Turbo Technologies and Wuxi Vane are working together on a major 
project to improve the water quality of Lake Taihu, one of the largest fresh water lakes in China (page 82).
THINK! eNeRGy  Columbus, Ind.
Cummins employees from several departments concerned about energy consumption partnered with the Energy Matters Community 
Coalition to deliver “Think! Energy” classes to elementary students. 
TOGeTHeR pROJeCT  Craiova, Romania
Cummins Generator Technologies employees in Craiova, Romania worked on a project with a school for students with disabilities, 
cleaning up a park area, including removing 40 tons of debris.
Three projects in the competition were singled out for special recognition:
padaRW adI eleCTRIFICa TION pROJeCT Maharashtra, India
Best Continuation of a Project and Best Technical Project  Engineers with Cummins India developed power generators that run on the oil from seeds of indigenous trees (page 84).
RICe CReeK ReHabIlIT aTION  Fridley, Minn.
Best Community Partner Engagement  
Cummins Power Generation employees are working with several groups including the Anoka County Parks, the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources and the Rice Creek Watershed District to rehabilitate Rice Creek. A lot of the effort has focused on removing an invasive weed and clearing trash from the banks of the creek. 
sT. JOsepH RIveR CleaN-Up  Elkhart, Ind.
Best New Project Entry 
More than 5,000 pounds of garbage was removed from a 1.5 mile stretch of the St. Joseph’s River by Cummins Onan Elkhart employees working while water levels were low during repairs on some area dams.
Power Generation employees in Fridley, Minn.  
were 2010 Challenge winners both for their work  
to improve Rice Creek and a straw bale gardening  
initiative to feed the hungry.
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  91CUmmINs meGasITe 
PHALTAN, INDIANew stoves help improve villages’ quality of life
Residents of the village of Nandal near 
Cummins’ new Megasite in India are breathing a little easier thanks to a 
community involvement project started  
by Company employees in 2010 to install new cook stoves in village homes
But that’s only one benefit of the clean-
burning, energy-efficient stoves that 
ultimately will be installed in about  
1,000 residences in villages near the  300-acre Cummins facility.
Nandal residents, who typically earn less 
than a dollar per day, are also spending less time gathering wood and washing kitchen walls and utensils because the stoves require less fuel and don’t cause as much 
smoke. That leaves residents with more time 
to do other things to support their families.
It’s just the first step in a comprehensive 
plan to improve the quality of life in the villages around the Megasite, according to 
Nagarajan Balanaga, Human Resources 
Leader for Cummins India. When the plan is fully implemented, he hopes it will slow the flow of people from villages like Nandal to large urban areas 
where new arrivals often live in squalid 
conditions that strain the infrastructure  of India’s major cities.
Villagers who move to urban areas 
might find it somewhat easier to relieve 
their hunger, but in many cases the 
living conditions are much worse, said S. Ravichandran, head of Corporate Responsibility for Cummins India. “If we  
can improve conditions in rural villages,  
we can reduce or perhaps reverse the  flow of people into urban areas,” he said.
The stoves are the first step in building  
what Ravichandran calls “model villages.” 
The Company’s comprehensive plan  calls for steps to improve sanitation, education and agriculture, including soil  
and water conservation.
Cummins employees are working with 
ARTI – the Appropriate Rural Technology Institute – established in 1996 to promote and facilitate sustainable rural development through the application of scientific and 
technical knowledge. 
The Megasite, which will be home to  
10 Cummins facilities by 2014, provides a 
unique opportunity for rural development.  
It is located in a sparsely populated area about 100 km from Pune near several villages in need of help.aWaRd WINNeR
The energy-efficient cook  
stove project was one of  
15 efforts across the Company 
honored during the 2010 Cummins Environmental Challenge.
The Cummins Foundation awarded 
each winning project a $10,000 grant that can be given to the not-
for-profit of the winning Community 
Involvement Team’s choice.
One of the families at the village 
of Nandal where Cummins India 
employees donated clean-burning, 
energy-efficient stoves.
92  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Company leaders decided they wanted the 
benefits of co-locating several Cummins facilities but needed a large, undeveloped 
parcel to do so. Working with government 
officials, they ultimately chose Phaltan,  a rocky area in the state of Maharashtra.
The typical village home near the Megasite 
consists of two rooms. Many homes have 
two stoves – one for cooking and one for 
heating water. Small wood fires can be going for four or five hours per day and all family members can be affected by the 
resulting smoke.
The project team discovered older 
stoves have been a key source of indoor air pollution in India, leading to chronic bronchitis, pulmonary disease and lung 
cancer. About 500,000 women and children 
die of these diseases annually in India.
The team also learned that indoor air 
pollution increases the risk of other health 
problems in adults and children including 
low birth-weight babies, prenatal mortality, asthma, tuberculosis and more. 
Cummins employees obtained an $11,700 
grant from the Cummins India Foundation to purchase the stoves. Early results show 
they are reducing wood consumption and time to boil water by 30 percent. In addition, 
they are cutting carbon monoxide in homes 
by about 80 percent. The team interviewed women in the village who do most of the work over the fire and they have praised 
both the project’s health benefits and the 
time-savings.
Cummins employees are now in the 
process of installing stoves in the villages  of Survadi and Dhawlewadi. By the time  
the stove initiative is complete, 150 to  
180 Cummins’ employees will have  donated 1,200 to 1,400 hours to the effort.
Mahesh Narang, Industrial Engine Business 
Leader in India, said working with village 
residents in a Six Sigma-style Voice of 
the Customer exercise to find out exactly what they needed has been critical to the success of the project.
“We have found that projects work best 
when are working directly with people to find out what they need to solve a problem,” he said. “As we carry out our plan, that will be critical to our success.”
A resident of Nandal uses one of 
the new cook stoves to prepare 
food for her family. The stoves 
require less firewood and produce 
less smoke.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  93
Cummins believes our company is only as healthy  
as the communities where we do business and  
where our employees live and work.Philanthropy: A track record of commitment
As a result, the Company contributes 
millions of dollars each year through operating funds and affiliated foundations 
to community organizations and programs 
around the world. 
In 2010, $20.7 million was invested in the 
Company’s corporate responsibility efforts, 
which included $13.3 million in donations to 
The Cummins Foundation.
The Cummins Foundation has played a 
critical role in hundreds of initiatives since its inception. Programs range from providing 
financial support for EARTH University in 
Costa Rica, which teaches sustainable agriculture to young people around the world, to bringing power to remote  
villages in India. 
Cummins also operates separate 
foundations in India and Mexico.  Grants from the Cummins India  Foundation target higher education,  
energy and the environment and local 
infrastructure improvements.The Philanthropic Association of Cummins in Mexico supports employment programs for marginalized individuals and other 
charitable projects.
To see a complete list of The Cummins 
Foundation’s grants and a statement of its financial position, go to the Sustainability 
section on cummins.com.
Community Involvement Team 
leaders from throughout North 
America met in Nashville in  
2010 to learn more about  
Cummins’ Corporate Responsibility 
program and perform a day of 
community service.
94  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
In 2010, $20.7 million was invested in the Company’s 
corporate responsibility efforts, which included $13.3 million  
in donations to The Cummins Foundation.
THe CUmmINs FOUNda TION 
Board of Directors
Chairman Tim Solso  
Chairman and CEO, Cummins
Director Jean Blackwell 
Executive Vice President of  Corporate Responsibility, Cummins 
Director Mark Gerstle 
Vice President & Chief Administrative Officer, Cummins
Director Tom Linebarger 
President and COO, Cummins 
Director Will Miller  
President Wallace Foundation and Member, Cummins Board of Directors
Director Marya Rose 
Vice President – General Counsel,  
Cummins
Director Pat Ward 
Vice President – Chief Financial Officer, CumminsFOUNda TION OFFICeRs
Chief Executive Officer Jean Blackwell
Treasurer Marsha Allamanno  
Corporate Responsibility Finance Director, 
Cummins
Secretary Mary Chandler  
Director – Corporate Responsibility  
Policy and Planning, Cummins
aUdIT COmmITTeeChairman Marsha Hunt 
Vice President – Controller, Cummins
Luther Peters 
Executive Director of Internal Audit, 
Cummins
James Guilfoyle 
Executive Director – Corporate Accounting, 
Cummins Investment Committee
INvesTmeNT COmmITTeeChairman Greg Ehlinger 
Director Corporate Strategy, Cummins 
Gloria Griesinger 
Director – Global Treasury and Pensions, 
Cummins
Marsha Hunt 
Vice President – Controller, CumminsINTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  95Cummins invested $20.7 million in its 
corporate responsibility efforts in 2010. This figure includes funding to  
The Cummins Foundation, donations 
and sponsorships from the Company’s operating funds, employee volunteer  hours on Company time as part of the  
Every Employee Every Community program, 
and staff efforts around the world to further our corporate responsibility mission.
Grants from The Cummins Foundation are 
primarily focused on communities where 
our employees live and work and where 
Cummins facilities are located. Grants are made to further the Company’s global priority areas of education, the environment and social justice. In 2010, 
these grants totaled $7.1 million.
Cummins also supports foundations in  
India and Mexico. In 2010, grants from these foundations totaled $908,000. 
A sample of Cummins’ larger  
philanthropic contributions is included  on the next two pages. Cummins’ investment in corporate responsibility
Cummins Filtration employees  
work to improve their community by 
giving books and other support to 
students at the Pudong Chuansha 
Limin Preliminary School in 
Shanghai, China.
96  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
GRaNTee ORGaNIZa TION COmmUNITy GRaNT OR dONa TION CUmmINs FOUNda TIONs CUmmINs INC.
Community development - education
Community Education Coalition Columbus, IN  $175,000 
Town of Whitakers - Public Library Whitakers, NC  $79,000 
The Library Project Wuxi, China  $82,000 
Jamestown Community College Jamestown, NY  $50,000 
Save the Children UK - China Programme Urumqi & Xi’an Branches $50,000 
Literacy Network Madison, WI $39,549 
21st Century Scholar Program Columbus, IN $30,000 
Wuxi Shanbei Central Primary School Wuxi, China  $25,000 
Chongqing Red Cross Foundation Chongqing, China  $25,000 
Millstream Career & Technology Center Findlay, OH  $25,000 
Beechgrove Elementary School Independence, KY  $25,000 
Building Tomorrow Indianapolis, IN  $25,000 
Mineral Point High School Technology  
Education DepartmentMineral Point, WI  $25,000 
New Haven Elementary School Walton, KY  $25,000 
Asociación Bermudez Juárez, Mexico  $24,760 
World Vision Kowloon, Hong Kong  $20,935 
Connected Community Partnership Columbus, IN  $20,000 
Human Services, Inc. Columbus, IN  $19,357 
Bartholomew Consolidated School Foundation Columbus, IN  $15,000 
Peking University Education Foundation of China Beijing, China  $13,750 
Saint Vasile School Romania  $10,000 
College Mentors for Kids Indianapolis, IN  $10,000 
ABC Stewart School Columbus, IN  $10,000 
Community development - environment
China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation Beijing, China  $50,000 
China Guangdong Lions Club Guangzhou, China  $25,000 
Cumberland River Compact Nashville, TN  $25,000 
Granthan Angling Association Lincolnshire, UK  $10,000 
India Foundation - Rural Electrification Pune, India  $10,000 
Shanghai Oasis Wildlife Conservation and 
Communication CenterShanghai, China  $10,000 
India Foundation - Bharatiya Agro Industry 
Foundation(BAIF)Pune, India  $10,000 
India Foundation - Deep Grinha Society Pune, India  $10,000 
Bartholomew County Solid Waste  Management DistrictColumbus, IN  $10,000 INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORpORa Te RespONsIbIlITy    |     EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |    FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  97GRaNTee ORGaNIZa TION COmmUNITy GRaNT OR dONa TION CUmmINs FOUNda TIONs CUmmINs INC.
Community development - social Justice
Shree Ramkrishna Charities Pune, India  $75,000 
Centro de Atencio Multiple (CAM) through AFIC San Luis Potosí, Mexico  $51,000 
ARC Center of Excellence Columbus, IN  $35,000 
China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation Beijing, China  $25,000 
Amun Ra Theatre Nashville, TN  $25,000 
Gleaners Food Bank- Back Sacks Program Seymour & Walesboro, IN  $45,000 
AIESEC Mainland of China China  $19,411 
The Children’s Society Kent, UK  $17,946 
Global Village of Beijing Beijing, China  $16,320 
AFIC for Hospital Central Shelter San Luis Potosí, Mexico  $16,000 
People Serving People Fridley, MN  $12,428 
Monkshill Farm / Royal School for the Deaf Kent, UK  $21,000 
Xiang Fan Charity Federation (DCEC-China) Xiangfan, China  $10,000 
Joy Centre Neighbourhood Link Singapore  $10,000 
Developmental Services Inc. Columbus, IN $10,000 
Los Ojos de Dios A. C El Paso, TX  $10,000 
Plan International USA XCEC - China $10,000 
Memphis Cultural Arts Enrichment Center Memphis, TN $10,000 
Sheltering Wings Danville, IN $10,000 
Lowcountry Food Bank Charleston, SC  $10,000 
Carolina Youth Development Center North Charleston, SC  $10,000 
Community development - Other architecture
Indianapolis Museum of Art - Miller House Columbus, IN  $525,000 
employee engagement - disaster Relief
Haiti Disaster Relief - Concern Worldwide La Gonave, Haiti  $150,000 
Haiti Disaster Relief - Save the Children Leogane, Haiti  $150,000 
Chile Disaster Relief Pelluhue, Chile  $100,000 
Community Foundation of Middle Tennessee - Flood 
Relief FundNashville, TN  $100,000 
Haiti Relief - Lambi Fund of Haiti Port-au-Prince, Haiti  $50,000 
Save The Children - Pakistan Flood Relief Various regions in Pakistan  $50,000 
employee engagement - social Justice
United Way Agencies United States  $4,117,024 
signature projects - education
Cummins College of Engineering for Women Nagpur, India  $600,000 
signature project - education, environment, social Justice
EARTH University Guácimo, Limón, Costa Rica  $372,000INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
98  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. emplOyee Rela TIONs // saFeTy
Safety in the workplace is a job never done
Other safety milestones over the past  
year included:
 »Cummins had 96 facilities with Severity 
Lost Work Day rates of zero in 2010 –  
up from 61 in 2009; seventy-five facilities in the Company’s network recorded Safety Incidence rates of zero in 2010.
 »Release of a major Health & Safety Toolkit on Slip, Trip and Fall Prevention.
 »Major work on existing initiatives, including programs to improve hand safety and hoist and crane safety. 
 »Development of a number of new initiatives for 2011, including the enhancement of data gathering  and analysis, and efforts to improve 
electrical safety. The Company 
received national attention for its  
safety efforts in  
2010. Cummins  was one of 12 companies named to  EHS Today magazine’s list of America’s 
Safest Companies. 
But Cummins experienced a few serious 
safety incidents around the world within  the past year that, while isolated, serve  as a sobering reminder that safety is a  
job never done.
“I think we’ve made some great progress,” 
Chairman and CEO Tim Solso told Cummins safety leaders meeting in 
Indianapolis for the Company’s 2011 Global 
Health, Safety and Environment Workshop in May, “but we have so much more to do.”HIGHlIGHTs
saFeTy
 »Significant improvement in 
several key safety metrics
 »Named to EHS Today magazine’s list of safest  U.S. companies
 »Launched major effort to increase contractor safetyHealth and safety leaders at Cummins 
continued to drive down injuries, illnesses  
and incidents across the Company in the  
past year, implementing an industry-leading driver safety program for employees in  
2010 and launching a major initiative to 
improve contractor safety in 2011.
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  99saFeTy maNaGemeNT
Cummins identifies and assesses potential 
safety hazards through the Company’s 
Health and Safety Management System, 
which sets key objectives and monitors health and safety performance in a uniform way across all Company facilities.
The system establishes minimum standards 
at Cummins’ locations for chemical safety, emergency preparedness, ergonomics, lockout and tagout of equipment and  much more.
A key part of the system is the “Red Flag” 
designation. Cummins sites having the highest risk levels or safety performance metrics most in need of improvement are 
designated “Red Flag sites.”
These sites participate in safety strategy 
review sessions with business unit and corporate safety leaders as well as senior leaders. They undergo in-depth safety 
audits and are closely monitored as they 
address identified gaps. 
A location can’t be removed from the Red 
Flag list unless it passes a five-day safety 
audit and a follow-up visit by a member of 
the Corporate Safety staff. The Red Flag system has been an effective way to help sites focus on their safety needs. 
Engaging employees in safety efforts is 
critical. A number of Cummins’ sites and 
business units took steps in the past  12 months to raise awareness and encourage involvement, including: 
 »Cummins Filtration South Africa  held a special ceremony in 2010  after achieving 49 months with no  safety incidents.  »In 2011, Cummins Emission Solutions in 
Brazil celebrated 1,000 days without an 
accident, highlighting several initiatives undertaken to improve its safety record.
 »Cummins Generator Technologies Mexico in San Luis Potosí initiated its “Today,  
I Choose Safety” program in March 2011. 
Plant leaders installed mirrors around the plant with the words: “You are seeing the person responsible for safety.” 
Some business units are even taking  a competitive approach to safety.  This spring, the Engine Business issued  a global challenge to all of its manufacturing sites to complete April accident free. 
In addition, employees were asked to 
participate in a new activity called “Spot the Hazard” in which employees see a safety issue, fix it and then report their solution  
to their supervisor.
Cummins Generator Technologies 
employee Amado Rivera looks at 
one of the mirrors in the plant in San 
Luis Potosí, Mexico that says “you 
are seeing the person responsible 
for safety” in Spanish.
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
100  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. dRIveR saFeTy 
One major type of on-the-job injury takes 
place outside plants, warehouses and 
offices. An estimated 45 percent of auto-
related incidents occur during the course  of the work day.
Cummins safety professionals have taken 
an aggressive approach to safe driving, 
launching a major driver safety initiative in 2010 that continued in 2011.
Some 40,000 Cummins employees 
worldwide from nearly 40 countries and 
five continents participated in this initiative, 
signing “Cummins Safe Driving Pledge”  and filling out a “Driving for Work Questionnaire.” Those indicating they drive 
on Cummins business must then complete 
additional training.
The Company’s driver safety initiative 
prohibits cell phone use – both handheld and wireless – while operating a vehicle 
on Company business. Cummins believes 
strongly that cell phones and other devices can distract drivers and ultimately contribute to accidents. 
Phase II of the Company’s Driver Safety 
Initiative, launched in May of 2011,  includes an additional online training  module called RoadRISK, which focuses more specifically on the risks drivers face 
when behind the wheel.
“Cummins will continue to place high 
importance on this program going forward as it is very important that eachemployee participates as required,” said Ignacio Garcia, Vice President – Chief Manufacturing & Procurement Officer and 
the senior leader overseeing the Company’s 
safety initiative.
KeepING CONTRaCTORs saFeThe Company also launched a new safety 
program regarding the use of contractors, 
mindful that as Cummins grows it is likely to have significantly more contractors on its properties performing tasks like construction and installing equipment.
Contract workers may not be familiar with 
Cummins’ safety procedures and may be relatively inexperienced, too. In that way, they may pose a danger to Cummins’ 
workers at the same sites.
Cummins safety officials say it’s critical 
to make sure contractors are qualified and understand the Company’s safety standards. They are working with 
purchasing officials to make sure contractor 
safety is a part of the selection and evaluation process for contractors.
In addition, Health and Safety officials  
at Cummins locations are being urged to 
work closely with contractors once they arrive on site, helping them to identify potential hazards and controls so they  can protect themselves. 
“While we’ve seen an improving trend in 
safety,” said Michelle Garner-Janna, Director – Corporate Health and Safety, “maintaining focus and a proactive approach will be 
critical for continued success in the future.”saFeTy CHalleNGes
New markets
Enhancing safety initiatives 
at Cummins facilities in new 
markets, often in developing countries, will be key to creating great places to work.
Rapid growth 
Ensuring proper systems are in 
place to manage change in an environment of growth.
Continued penetration  
of existing initiatives
Continuing the momentum  
that exists behind current  Health & Safety initiatives 
while also focusing on the 
development of new tools for continuous improvement. INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  101Safety teams help communities, too
Every week or so, Bryan Marr will suddenly 
dash from his work in Indirect Purchasing at Cummins Emission Solutions in Mineral 
Point, Wis., to his second job.
Every second counts as he races to the 
parking lot. That’s because Marr is the Assistant Fire Chief for the Mineral Point 
Volunteer Fire Department.
He wants to get to the fire scene first so he 
can direct his fellow firefighters when they arrive. Five other Cummins employees will likely be on the fire truck when it pulls up in 
this rural area of southwestern Wisconsin.
They are just a few of the thousands 
of Cummins employees – both in and outside the United States – who make the 
Company a safer place because they bring 
their emergency response skills to work.
Many participate on the Emergency 
Response Teams (ERTs) established at Cummins plants and facilities. Often, 
they also serve as Emergency Medical 
Technicians, volunteer firefighters or in some other capacity in their own communities.
Marr and his fellow firefighters at Emission 
Solutions are unusual in that they are 
allowed to drop everything and run if a fire occurs while they are working. That’s because without them it’s uncertain the department could come up with the  
15 volunteer firefighters needed for a  
call between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m.“If we weren’t able to do this,” Marr says,  “it would put a tremendous burden on the city, our businesses and residents. There 
would be a much longer wait (for help), 
that’s for sure.”
Cummins Occupational Safety Director Jim 
Dorris doesn’t have an estimate for how 
many Cummins ERT members also serve 
in some kind of emergency capacity in their local communities. He said he believes it’s a common occurrence.
“Our Emergency Response Teams are 
important in a couple of ways,” Dorris said. 
“First, they significantly enhance protection for our workforce. The faster the response to something like a heart attack, the more 
likely it will end with a good outcome.”
Bryan Marr works both in Indirect 
Purchasing at Cummins Emission 
Solutions in Mineral Point, Wis.,  
and as Assistant Fire Chief for  
the Mineral Point Volunteer  
Fire Department.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
102  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. “In addition, they bring their skills to the 
community,” he added. “So if a kid, say, gets hit with the ball at a Little League 
game, they are there to offer their first- 
aid skills.”
Dorris said he believes it’s all in keeping  
with the Company’s mission to build 
stronger, safer and healthier communities.
Cummins health and safety leaders  
say in many cases people get interested  in emergency response by serving on a team at Cummins. After getting the basic 
training offered by the teams, they start 
acquiring additional skills on their own  and end up certified as Emergency  Medical Technicians (EMTs).That’s pretty much how Karen Ferguson 
got started. She joined a team at Cummins 
Technical Center in Columbus in 1991. When she moved to Fuel Systems in 1994, she joined the ERT there. Four years later, she and two other members of the team 
went through a basic EMT class.
Now, in addition to her work in Drafting 
at Fuel Systems, she volunteers with the Jennings County, Ind. Emergency 
Medical Service (EMS) and is the volunteer 
representative on the EMS board.
“I really enjoy helping people,” Ferguson 
said. “This is a great way to do it.”
At Mineral Point, the volunteer firefighters 
get credit for the hours they leave work 
on emergency calls under the Company’s Every Employee Every Community Corporate Responsibility program.
For Marr, a Cummins employee for the past 
five years, the policy allows him to continue a family tradition. His grandfather is a former department chief and his father is a former Captain. Marr has served for more than  
18 years.
“Growing up I probably spent more time 
working on engines at the fire station than at home,” he said. “It’s just always been a 
part of my family’s life.” Working on a Cummins Emergency 
Response team led Karen Ferguson 
(middle) to eventually become an 
Emergency Medical Technician.  
She joined fellow Company 
employees Terry Sweasy (left)  
and Terry Underwood (right)  
at an accident re-creation  designed to promote prom  
safety in Columbus, Ind.
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  103Aussie blokes – and ladies, too –  
aren’t much for complaining.
So when health and safety leaders 
in Australia noticed an uptick in 
musculoskeletal injuries in 2009 among  their technicians, they quickly investigated what was happening.
“The technicians worked primarily on 
engines, making repairs on trucks in the field,” said Sylvia Ryan, Director of Quality, Occupational Health & Safety and the Environment (OHS&E) for Cummins’ 
Distribution Business in the South Pacific.
The technicians sometimes had to stretch, 
twist and reach in awkward ways, aided only by a small plastic step. That step could 
become slippery in a shop environment 
where oil and lubricants are present.
The South Pacific Central Safety Committee 
decided there had to be a better way. So they put Ryan and Charles Charalambous, OHS&E manager, in charge of a team to solve the problem. 
Their answer took less than a year to 
develop, was relatively inexpensive  
($20,000 in development costs), and improves both safety and efficiency.
The Australian team calls it the “Tractor 
Working Platform.” It’s a tri-level platform  
to control slips and fall hazards in engine bays. The platform has a secure place for tools and a place for a laptop computer  as well – that’s where the efficiency gains 
come in. 
It should be available for use at all of  
the Company’s Distribution locations in Australia by September 2011. Cummins 
safety leaders maintain the platform holds 
promise for use at Company locations around the world.
“Employee engagement was absolutely 
critical,” said Ryan, adding that feedback 
from employees and management was 
used to refine the design three times.
She says the platform may also bring in 
revenue to Cummins as other companies 
discover its safety and efficiency benefits.Team in Australia develops new tool  
to enhance safety
TRaCTOR WORKING 
plaTFORm
The tri-level platform provides 
stable access to:
 »The top of the engine for 
tune-ups and access to the cylinder head; 
 »To the middle of the engine for access to the turbochargers and the intercoolers as  well as for testing coolant;
 »The lower part of the engine 
for access to starter motors 
and oil coolers.sCOResby
AUSTRALIA
Safety leaders in Australia helped to develop a tri-level 
platform that helps technicians both work safely and 
more efficiently.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
104  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. Sometimes creating the right environment  
for success means establishing an environment where employees can have 
difficult conversations.
That’s why Cummins Global Diversity 
Department has been taking its Affirmative Development Project on the road the past 
year to help employees develop the tools 
they need to speak with each other in a way that’s respectful but provides critical input.
“We found that some managers weren’t 
having difficult conversations with people 
from different cultures or backgrounds for 
fear they would offend them,” said Lisa Gutierrez, Cummins Executive Director – Global Diversity. 
“But that means they weren’t giving those 
employees the feedback they needed to have successful careers at Cummins,”  she said.
The project was successfully piloted in the 
United States with the Company’s African & 
African-American Affinity Group in Southern Indiana and GOAL – the Latino Affinity Group based in Columbus, Ind.
In the past year, the project has  
been implemented in India and China.  In August 2011, it will be presented in Brazil. Cummins plans to also take the project to Australia later in 2011.In general, the initiative operates like this:
 »Along with senior leaders, employees from certain under-represented 
demographic groups meet together 
at an all-day workshop to talk about their career goals and any issues the employees may be facing as a group. 
 »Then, they discuss career development and the ways they can accomplish  their career goals both collectively and  as individuals.
 »For part of the day, their managers are 
invited to sit in and learn about the issues 
raised during the workshop.
 »Finally, managers meet in their own day-long workshops where they learn tools 
and techniques to help them manage 
diverse teams. Gutierrez says a key assumption is that managers want to move their teams “from good to great.”
The workshops are designed to get people 
to feel comfortable enough to talk about 
challenging topics.
The response has been tremendous. In 
India, 98 percent of the respondents rated 
the program as good or very good and  
95 percent said the same thing in China.emplOyee Rela TIONs // dIveRsITy
Leveraging differences to fuel innovation
HIGHlIGHTs
dIveRsITy
 »Affirmative Development 
Project is successfully implemented globally
 »Resource guide  completed for employee diversity groups
 »Chairman’s Diversity  Council strengthenedINTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  105
Managers are told the most important thing 
they need to do is to treat the people they supervise with honesty and respect, and to 
communicate clearly that they want them  
to succeed.
“I’m less afraid than before to say the  
wrong things,” said one participant in China. 
“As long as I treat others with respect,  
I trust that my intentions and my honesty will keep me out of trouble.”
It’s a skill that can be used in settings other 
than manager-employee relationships. 
Gutierrez says the ability to disagree 
constructively is integral to innovation. Sometimes the best ideas come during a thoughtful debate.
OTHeR Key INITIa TIves
 »The Company altered the Chairman’s 
Diversity Council. Council membership now consists of members of the Operating Leadership Team, a group  
of senior leaders charged with making 
key decisions on Cummins operations. This both confirms diversity as a  key Company concern and ensures 
initiatives can be easily rolled out to  
the organization through each leader.
 »The Global Diversity Department continued work on ways to increase the pool of diverse candidates for leadership 
positions through such things as 
mentoring and coaching.  »The Department also completed a Resource Guide for employee resource groups including affinity groups, which are typically organized around a 
specific under-represented trait at the 
Company (African-Americans, Women, etc.). The guide also targets Local Diversity Councils, employee-led groups 
charged with creating an inclusive work 
environment at locations throughout  the Company.
 »Cummins now has more than 90 Affinity Groups and Diversity Councils including 
new groups being formed in Brazil,  
China and India.“It’s not enough to respect different 
cultures, we also have to be able to  
work together if we’re going to leverage 
the full power of a diverse workforce.  
That means learning to exchange ideas 
and sometimes disagree.”
lIsa GUTIeRReZ  
CUMMINS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR – GLOBAL DIVERSITY
Diversity consultant Roland West 
meets with employees in Beijing, 
China as part of the Affirmative Development Project. West  
says successful managers treat  
the people they supervise with  
honesty and respect and 
communicate clearly that they  
want them to succeed.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
106  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. Groups join forces to extend hand to vets
Thanks to advances in body armor and 
emergency medicine, experts expect more soldiers to return home from war alive, but 
with injuries to their arms, legs and hands. 
Two affinity groups at Cummins have joined 
forces to make it a little easier for these veterans to find jobs at the Company when 
they come back.
The World Wide Veterans and Supporters 
Affinity Group and the Special Needs and Abilities Affinity Group (SNAAG) are working together to help qualified veterans with 
disabilities navigate the Company’s  
hiring process.“We’re very good at recruiting from 
traditional sources like colleges and 
universities,” said George Strodtbeck, Executive Director of Quality and the Cummins Operating System and  the leader of the veterans group.  
“But if you’re in a group that’s not so 
traditional, it can be very hard to find  the door to a job at Cummins.”
SNAAG and the veterans group are two 
of about 40 employee-led affinity groups 
at Cummins, most organized around different demographic traits that are under-represented at the Company. 
These affinity groups focus on issues 
such as recruiting, retention and career 
development. Both SNAAG and the veterans group had been working to recruit more people with disabilities and veterans, 
respectively. Leaders of both groups say 
it was only natural to work together on recruiting veterans with disabilities.
“It has not taken the affinity groups long at 
all to mesh because we have this common 
interest,” said Pam Donohoe-Duncan, 
Global Change Manager for Cummins Turbo Technologies and Leader of SNAAG. 
The two groups are partnering with a third 
organization, the Career Learning and 
Employment Center (CLEC), a private not-for-profit that helps veterans with disabilities 
Two Cummins Affinity Groups 
sponsored “Cummins 101,” where 
disabled veterans and others got a 
chance to learn about the Company 
and to practice their interviewing 
skills with some frequent recruiters.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  107successfully transition to civilian careers. 
CLEC is helping the two affinity groups  look for veterans who would be a good fit 
for Cummins.
“Veterans have many skills that make them 
valuable employees,” said Ken Williams, the Director of CLEC’s Indianapolis office. “First, 
of course, is that they are very good at 
taking orders. They gain an understanding of the mission very quickly and they bring to the job a lot of skills – both technical and people skills.”
Williams said it’s unusual to see a company 
like Cummins, which doesn’t do a lot of business with the military, working to identify disabled veterans to hire. “To be working 
on the ground floor with a company like 
Cummins is very, very exciting,” he said. 
So far, the two groups have had a modest 
impact – two individuals have been hired in part because of their efforts. But the 
initiative has really only started. 
The biggest event to date was something 
the groups called “Cummins 101.”  The May 16, 2011 event was an opportunity 
for two dozen or so invited veterans and 
people with disabilities to learn more about the Company. They also got a chance to test their interviewing skills with hiring officials in an exercise loosely based on 
speed dating.“In many ways, you are starting over,” 
Strodtbeck told participants. “And you  have to find ways to describe your 
experiences in the military so a hiring 
manager can understand how you will  bring value to the Company.”
Strodtbeck, a graduate of the U.S. Military 
Academy at West Point, N.Y., joined private 
industry in 1986 after a career in the Army.
One resource disabled and veteran 
applicants can tap is Sandy Tumbarello, Cummins’ Veterans and Special Needs 
Corporate Liaison. Tumbarello dispenses 
advice on resumes (keep them short), interviewing (be positive and do your homework) and dress (always interview  
in business formal to make a good  
first impression). 
The initial reviews are promising. DeeAnne 
J. Marlow, Director – Human Resources  for Cummins Turbo Technologies and one  
of the interviewers at the Cummins 101 
event, said she was very impressed by  the people she met.
“These candidates bring great skills that 
we can leverage as we continue to grow 
our business,” Marlow said. “It can take a little more effort to determine where these skills can best fit. As often times, the roles in which they’ve developed their skills don’t 
mirror what we might think of as traditional 
‘corporate’ experiences.”dIveRsITy &  
sUpplIeR dIveRsITy 
CHalleNGes
Development 
Continue implementing Affirmative Development  
Project for diversity groups  
and their managers outside  the United States.
Reach potential 
Leverage the full potential of 
the Company’s Affinity Groups and Local Diversity Councils on the key issues of recruiting, retention, career development 
and business enhancement.
Goals 
Build support for new diversity procurement goals in the midst 
of anticipated rapid growth.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
108  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. Challenging project provides lessons in diversity
A telecommunications project in Bolivia 
that had Cummins employees working both in sweltering jungles and the cold 
winds of the Andes mountains provided the 
Company with one of its most challenging business opportunities—and a lesson in the importance of diversity and cultural 
understanding, too. 
“One of the most important aspects 
learned from this project was to be close to the customer, keep an open mind and communicate continuously,” said Cummins 
Project Manager Carlos Salvatierra, who 
works out of Santa Cruz, Bolivia. 
The initiative started in 2009 when the 
Bolivian National Telecommunication 
Company selected China-based Huawei 
Technologies S.A. to bring network coverage to the entire country. Huawei provides broadband video, mobile telephone, and high-speed data systems.
The Bolivian contract represented a 
doorway to significant new business for Huawei —provided it could show itself to  be fast, efficient and stable. Being new to 
the region, Huawei had no infrastructure  
to work with. 
It needed to set up a series of base 
transceiver stations—the antennas and radio equipment that provides wireless 
service. Some of those base stations had to go up in the Andes at altitudes higher than 
15,000 feet, where the oxygen is thin and the winds reach 70 knots. 
Others had to go into jungles, where the 
rain is constant and temperatures reach 113 degrees Fahrenheit. None of these sites was within reach of electrical service. 
That’s where Cummins enters the story. 
Cummins Bolivia and Cummins Power Generation were commissioned to supply more than 350 generators in 2010, as well as automatic transfer switches, fuel 
tanks, fuel level sensors, parts and services 
for prime power, emergency backup and continuous electrical power. 
Huawei needed this equipment to be set up 
and working properly, and it needed the job 
to be turned around quickly.
Cummins personnel found themselves 
driving through trackless terrain, in many instances enduring foul weather. When they saNT a CRUZ
BOLIVIAINTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
reached distant construction sites, the living 
conditions were primitive. They had tents, but often no facilities to bathe.
While the living conditions could be 
primitive, the Cummins employees soon learned that one of the most challenging issues was working in an environment  
of cultural differences. Chinese, English,  
and Spanish were all spoken on this  project, and ongoing modifications in Huawei’s plans made constant communication essential. 
They had to work through questions 
about the sites, logistics, security, safety, equipment and more.
Some of Huawei’s Chinese managers were 
being exposed to Western culture for the 
first time. For example, they did not share Western holidays, including New Year’s Eve, and expected workers to spend these holidays installing generating equipment. 
The urgency of the job sometimes  
required Cummins personnel to work extremely long hours with limited time to sleep. But they adjusted. And they 
lived Cummins’ diversity value of treating 
everyone with dignity and respect.
“We could not learn Chinese in the short 
time we were on the job, but we found a shared language in English,” said 
Salvatierra, who led the Cummins team of about a dozen people who themselves 
came from several countries. “Once we were able to find such common ground 
and develop some level of confidence and 
mutual trust with key members of the team, the project experienced good progress.”
Today, Huawei is the number one provider 
of telecommunications systems in Bolivia, 
with representation in the top three cellular companies in that market.
And Cummins, because of its experience 
on this project, knows it can meet the most 
demanding expectations of customers 
anywhere in the world, making them tops  in their market, too. 
A Cummins team worked high 
up in the Andes mountains and 
in sweltering jungles, but found 
cultural and language differences 
among the biggest challenges it 
faced in a telecommunications 
project in Bolivia.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
110  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. emplOyee Rela TIONs // sUpplIeR dIveRsITy
Goal rising for supplier diversity
Efforts to build support for supplier diversity 
during the downturn in the U.S. truck market seem to be paying off for Cummins 
Diversity Procurement initiative.
Based on new projections, the Company’s 
Diversity Procurement Council has raised its target for purchases with diverse suppliers 
in the U.S. and Canada from 12 percent to 
14.5 percent of total purchases by 2012.
If current purchasing levels continue, the 
Company should reach CEO Tim Solso’s goal of $1 billion in purchases from diverse 
suppliers that same year – a figure some 
thought impossible in the depths of  the recession.
“The estimates we’re seeing from the 
business units are amazing,” said Gordon 
Fykes, Cummins Director of Diversity Procurement. “I’m very, very pleased.”
Cummins had $540 million in spending with 
diverse suppliers in 2010. That number is 
expected to reach $679 million in 2011 –  
a nearly 26 percent increase.
Fykes acknowledged the rosy forecast is 
partly due to higher volumes as the U.S. 
truck market recovers after two slow years. 
But he says the improving forecast also demonstrates that efforts by his staff and the council to promote the benefits of supplier diversity are paying dividends.“Our diversity procurement message had a very good year in 2010,” Fykes said. “We had both (President) Tom Linebarger 
and Tim Solso talking to suppliers and 
our purchasing staff about the importance of supplier diversity. And Ignacio Garcia (Vice President – Chief Manufacturing & 
Procurement Officer) has consistently said 
this is a priority. I think the message has gotten through.”
CUmmINs sTRa TeGy
At Cummins, diversity procurement, also 
known as supplier diversity, is a logical 
extension of Cummins’ Global Diversity initiatives. It is also part of the Company’s commitment to “serve and improve the 
communities in which we live.”
By working with diverse suppliers,  
Cummins is able to increase economic opportunity in all of the communities where the Company’s employees live and where 
Cummins does business.
Diversity procurement, however, is also 
a key business strategy with bottom-line benefits. Helping diverse suppliers 
develop and grow will eventually increase 
competition for Cummins’ business, ultimately resulting in lower prices and better quality for the Company’s purchases and better service, too.HIGHlIGHTs
sUpplIeR dIveRsITy
 »Company raises targets  
for business with  diverse suppliers
 »On track to reach  $1 billion goal
 »Successfully promotes benefits to diversity procurementINTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  111There are no set-asides or handouts in our 
Diversity Procurement program. Diverse suppliers must compete on price and quality. 
Key TOOls
Cummins Diversity Procurement staff  
serves as a resource for purchasing  leaders and business unit officials who  
want to solicit bids from diverse suppliers 
for Cummins purchases. The staff also works with diverse suppliers to help  them develop.
Fykes and his staff have developed 
several tools to help Company purchasing 
personnel find diverse suppliers:
Diverse Supplier Booklet –  
The Diversity Procurement staff updated its 
Diverse Supplier Booklet in 2010. Initiated 
a year earlier, the booklet includes detailed descriptions of women- and minority-owned businesses that have offered top quality goods and services at competitive prices 
in their previous work for Cummins. The 
catalog is also available to all Cummins’ suppliers in the hope they will use it to find diverse partners to help them meet Cummins’ supply contracts.  
A 2011 version of the booklet was in 
production as this report went to press.
Diversity Procurement Website – The 
staff’s other principal tool is the initiative’s Web site - http://supplier.cummins.com. 
It provides one place where potential 
diverse suppliers can register their interest in doing business with Cummins and learn about new business opportunities that  
exist with the Company. In addition,  
suppliers can record their spending  on diverse-owned businesses as  well as access Cummins’ catalog on  diverse suppliers.
Getting all suppliers to use and report their 
spending with diverse-owned businesses  remains a challenge. The Company has  set a 10 percent goal for spending on 
diverse suppliers by other suppliers with 
Cummins contracts. 
Nevertheless, the future looks bright for 
the Company’s supplier diversity initiative. Fykes, however, says the Company cannot 
get complacent.
“We’re in a pretty good spot but there’s  
so much more we can do,” he said.  “We must continue our efforts to include 
diverse suppliers in all areas of our 
procurement strategies.”pROmIsING ReTURNs
Looking ahead, the Company 
is seeing promising results from 
a program designed to help 
diverse suppliers take their businesses to the next level.
The Diverse Manufacturing 
Supply Chain Alliance (DMSCA) 
is a mentoring initiative that provides suppliers with benchmarking information, gap analysis, counseling and 
more. Cummins is one of four 
corporate sponsors of the initiative led by David Burton which grew out of the National 
Minority Manufacturing Institute 
formed in 2004.
Cummins is sponsoring two 
diverse suppliers participating in DMSCA – AMG Engineering & 
Machining of Indianapolis, Ind. 
and Indiana Research Institute  of Columbus, Ind.
“Both companies have grown 
tremendously through this 
process,” said Gordon Fykes, Cummins Director of Diversity Procurement. “I really believe they have the potential  
to be strategic suppliers  
with Cummins.”
2010 Diversity   
Supplier Profile Booklet  INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
112  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
emplOyee Rela TIONs // WORKFORCe
Creating a sustainable workforce
Cummins currently has about  
40,000 employees working around the world and expects to increase its workforce 
significantly over the next few years to  
meet strong forecasted growth across  all its businesses. 
Much of that growth will occur outside the 
United States, where 63 percent of the 
Company’s current employees are located. One of the Company’s strategic goals is  to create a workforce – and a leadership team – that is a reflection of Cummins’ 
global scope.
For example, in the past year Cummins has 
elevated the profile of its business in Latin America and China by adding leaders from 
those regions to the Company’s roster of 
Corporate Officers. Additionally, Cummins has launched leadership development programs in China and India over the  past year. These 18-month programs will prepare approximately 15 high potential employees in each country for future senior leadership 
roles in their home countries – and beyond – 
by strengthening their leadership skills and raising their profile in the Company.
All of this is just part of creating the right 
environment for employees to succeed, 
which is one of the Company’s six strategic principles. The effort to create a sustainable workforce begins as soon as an employee joins Cummins and continues throughout 
his or her career. 
Cummins invests significantly in employee 
development at all levels and across all parts of the organization, and the 
Company has a number of initiatives aimed 
at improving the skills and increasing satisfaction among its workforce. HIGHlIGHTs
WORKFORCe
 »New training program 
targets middle managers
 »Manufacturing workers focus of Operations Excellence Academy
 »Developing future leaders is key Company objectiveAs Cummins enters a period of accelerated 
growth, it is going to be more important than 
ever that the Company attract top employees 
and invest in its people around the world to retain the talent necessary to remain 
successful on a global stage.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  113Here is a look at some of the larger 
employee education efforts at  Cummins today:
bUIldING sUCCess IN OTHeRs
In 2011, the Company launched the first 
phase of its Building Success in Others: 
Leadership Essentials course that targets 
mid-level managers among the Cummins’ professional workforce.
This program is designed to provide 
managers with the tools they need to help 
their direct reports become successful at Cummins, with an emphasis on managing the growing number of employees new to Cummins. At the same time, the course 
is meant as a first step on the leadership 
development journey for many of the Company’s managers. 
Among the expected outcomes  
from the course:
 »Helping managers to effectively evaluate 
and accelerate employee performance and development »Helping managers understand the motivational needs of their staff members
 »Improving communication between 
managers and their staff members
 »Helping managers gain a better 
understanding of the leadership environment at Cummins and  
their role in the success of the  
larger organization
CRea TING exCelleNCe aCROss 
OUR maNUF aCTURING sysTem
Over the past year, Cummins has embarked on an ambitious effort to strengthen its global manufacturing system by identifying, communicating and reinforcing best 
practice standards for a wide range of 
processes in our plants around the world.
A key part of the effort will be the creation 
of the Cummins “Operations Excellence 
Academy,” which is designed to provide  
a comprehensive suite of training programs to our manufacturing employees.
Cummins employees in 
remanufacturing, like this woman 
in India, work with high-tech 
tools including scanning electron 
microscopes and particle counters 
to help add miles to the Company’s 
engines and parts.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    emplOyee Rela TIONs    |     FINANCIAL 
114  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. Starting in the fourth quarter of 2011,  
shop floor employees in the United States will begin receiving awareness and user 
training on 31 key processes that have  
been identified as crucial to our manufacturing success in the future. Eventually, the program will be rolled  
out at plants around the world. 
bUIldING a CUl TURe  
OF leadeRsHIpA company is not truly sustainable  
without an effective process to identify  
and develop leaders. 
Ask Tim Solso to name his most important 
responsibility in his role as Cummins Chairman and CEO and the answer you  
will get is “developing leaders across  
the Company.”
Cummins believes it’s especially important 
for a global company because of the complexities inherent in leading a 
corporation with employees in different 
countries, living in different time zones,  with different customs, often speaking different languages.The Leadership Culture Series was created in 2009 to strengthen the Company’s commitment to providing the skills 
necessary to build successful leaders 
across Cummins. The program, designed for the Company’s top 300 leaders, focuses on five specific leadership skills considered 
critical to Cummins’ future success.  
The five skills are:
 »Coaching and development
 »Fostering open communications
 »Managing diversity 
 »Talent management
 »Thinking strategically
A top executive at Cummins takes ownership of each individual skill area, 
helping to develop curricula and leading 
training sessions across the globe. Participants are expected to incorporate lessons from the sessions into their work plans and day-to-day interactions with  
staff members, colleagues, customers  
and other stakeholders.
The Leadership Culture Series is in its final 
stages and is expected to be completed  
by the end of 2011.WORKFORCe CHalleNGes
Hiring
Hiring people during a period 
of significant growth who share 
the Company’s Mission, Vision and Values.
Leadership
Developing the next generation 
of Cummins leaders.
Excellence
Creating operational excellence 
from the shop floor through the 
executive suite.COaCHING aNd develOpmeNT :  
a lIFelONG JOURNey
At Cummins, coaching and development 
doesn’t stop when an individual reaches a 
senior leadership position in the Company. As part of the Company’s commitment to creating a sustainable organization, 
Cummins has, over the past four years, 
developed an executive leadership development program aimed at educating today’s top leaders – and those of tomorrow – about the breadth and depth of the 
Company’s business.
Now in the middle of its third cycle, the 
executive development program brings together small cohorts of high potential 
senior leaders and mid-career professionals 
for 24 months of extensive education  about the Company’s operations.  All those selected are viewed as having  the potential to become a member of the 
senior leadership team at some point.
Cummins’ top leaders, including the 
CEO and President, are heavily involved in the program and program participants 
gain significant insights to the issues and 
opportunities facing the Company through their interactions with these leaders and with one another. Members of the group have a hand in developing the program 
and executive development groups have 
traveled globally to learn about various aspects of the Company’s business.Cummins workforce
Cummins depends on a high-tech workforce. 
Of its roughly 40,000 employees as of  
June 2011, the Company has:
Engineers
 »Almost 7,000 engineers
Information Technology
 »Nearly 900 people in information technology positions
Other areas
 »More than 3,200 employees who are not in engineering or 
information technology but have a college degree – either 
bachelor’s, master’s or PhD – in engineering or a science-
related field of study.
Location
 »Almost 63 percent of the Company’s workforce resides  outside the United States.
Union
 »Nearly 40 percent of the workforce belongs to a union.
Workers display teamwork at the Beijing  
Foton Cummins Engine Company. In 2011,  
the Company has started a new effort to 
strengthen manufacturing standards in  
Cummins’ plants around the world. 116  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |     FINaNCIal  
FINaNCIal
From uncertainty to growth: 
Cummins finishes 2010 in record fashion
HIGHlIGHTs
 »Cummins records stellar 
2010 despite sluggish  U.S. truck market
 »Company sees rapid growth in Brazil, China and India
 »Earnings surpass  $1 billion for first time  in Cummins’ historyCummins entered 2010 facing a significant 
amount of uncertainty, especially around  
the general health of the economy in  
the United States and the state of the  North American truck markets.
As a result, the Company’s original forecast 
for 2010 was for sales and profits to be essentially the same as 2009, which was 
a solid year but down substantially from 
Cummins’ record performance in 2008.
The North American truck markets 
recovered even more slowly than expected, 
but the Company’s growth far exceeded 
our expectations in 2010, primarily on the strength of Cummins’ performance in large emerging markets such as Brazil, China, and India.
Sales were $13.2 billion, up 22 percent  
from 2009 and second only to 2008 revenues. Net income attributable to Cummins rose 143 percent to $1.04 billion, 
from $428 million in 2009. For the first time  
in the Company’s history, earnings surpassed $1 billion.  
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 
were a record $1.66 billion, or 12.5 percent 
of sales – more than double what Cummins 
reported in 2009. “Last year showed, beyond a doubt, that Cummins is more than a North American heavy-duty truck engine maker,” said 
Chairman and CEO Tim Solso.
All four business segments reported  
strong sales and profits compared to 2009. Some highlights:
 »The Engine and Components segments had record earnings from operations despite a decline of 61 percent in  North American heavy-duty engine shipments. Medium-duty engine 
shipments also were down 44 percent. 
 »Distribution reported record sales and 
profits, demonstrating significant global growth and improving service capability 
around the world.
 »Power Generation had significant sales 
increases and improved profits. Power Generation lags behind other Cummins’ businesses in the economic cycle, but is 
beginning to recover from the effects of 
the recession. INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |     FINaNCIal  
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  117 »Total sales in China, including the 
Company’s unconsolidated joint  ventures, increased by 70 percent in 
2010. In addition, Cummins grew  
market share in every segment in  which the Company competes.
 »Sales in Brazil also grew by about  
70 percent from 2009. Cummins  
remains the leader in truck engine 
markets in the country.
 »And in India, total revenues, 
including those from the Company’s unconsolidated joint ventures, increased 46 percent over 2009. Cummins 
strengthened its joint venture partnership 
with Tata Motors, India’s leading truck manufacturer, opening a second Tata-Cummins engine plant along with two 
other facilities in India in January 2011.
Cummins also successfully launched our 
new products in North America. Cummins sold 62,000 EPA 2010-compliant engines 
with Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) systems in 2010 and sales of SCR engines 
in North America totaled nearly 90,000 through the end of the first quarter of 2011. 
The Company’s SCR-based engines deliver 
up to a six percent improvement in fuel economy, compared to the 2007 EGR-only engines. Fuel economy in Cummins’ new engines also surpassed 2010 engines not using SCR systems.
Customers have said they are delighted  
with the performance and reliability of the new engines and Cummins is more convinced than ever that SCR is the right technology to meet current and future 
environmental standards in our leading 
markets (page 35).
Cummins’ performance in 2010 –  
and throughout the global recession –  
is a clear example that the Company  
is a diverse global power leader that  competes effectively in a wide range of engine and power generation markets 
around the world.
President and Chief Operating 
Officer Tom Linebarger cuts the 
ribbon to officially open Cummins’ 
new corporate Africa headquarters 
in Woodmead, South Africa in  
June 2011. To learn more about  
the Company’s plans for Africa, 
go to page 120.118  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. Still, the North American truck markets are 
very important to the Company’s success. In 2011, Cummins expects the heavy-duty truck market in North America to grow by 
50 percent, while the medium-duty truck 
market is expected to grow by 40 percent. 
As a result of this growth, and continued 
strength in other product and geographic markets around the world, Cummins 
expects 2011 sales to grow by as much  
as 30 percent from 2010, and EBIT to be  14 percent of sales. The Company expects 
2011 to be a record year in terms of both 
sales and profits.Cummins believes that a strong financial performance is critical to sustainability.  It allows the Company to invest in initiatives to build stronger communities and a 
stronger workforce. We are also investing  
in the business.
Capital investment is expected to grow 
by 75 percent to as much as $650 million in 2011, and Cummins’ joint ventures 
will invest another $300 million in their 
operations. In addition, our research and development spending is forecast to grow 
by more than 40 percent as the Company 
continues to develop the cleanest,  most fuel efficient products on the market. 
Solso says he’s more optimistic than he has 
ever been in his 40 years with the Company.
“We have more growth opportunities ahead 
of us today than at any time in our history,” he said.
Cummins celebrates the 
inauguration of the Company’s 
new Megasite in Phaltan, India 
in January 2011. The 300-acre 
site will be home to 10 Cummins’ 
facilities by 2014. Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso 
and Anant Talaulicar, Vice President & President, Cummins’ Component 
Group and Chairman of Cummins 
India, joined local dignitaries at  
the ceremony.
2010 – a ReCORd yeaR OF pROFIT abIlITy
Revenue $13.2 B
EBIT $1.66 B
Net earnings $1 B
EPS $5.28 B
Cash Flow from Operations $1 BCummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  119
GROWTH sINCe 2000 
Cummins is projected to have  a record year in 2011.
Discipline
As Cummins makes the transition  
to a period of accelerated growth,  
it is imperative that we pursue growth 
opportunities with the same discipline we demonstrated during the economic downturn. This is especially true  
when it comes to managing costs  
and retaining the productivity gains  realized over the past two years. Management
Cummins is going to be a larger,  
more complex and more global 
company in the future. That means  
it will be more important than ever  that the Company hire well – and then develop its employees – and execute 
our growth strategy so that the 
Company can take full advantage  of the opportunities ahead. Supply chain
Substantial gains can be made  
to improving the supply chain by  
reducing waste and recycling  
materials. Implementing global packaging standards will be an important first step.  2011 and beyond: a different kind of challenge
As Cummins looks to 2011 and beyond, the Company sees significant profitable 
growth opportunities in markets around the world, but challenges as well.05101520
05101520Consolidated Sales
$BillionsJoint Venture Sales
Unconsolidated
$Billions
2000 2005 2010 2011 2000 2005 2010 20116.69.913.217.0Consolidated sales 
in billions of dollars
President and Chief Operating Officer Tom Linebarger sits with Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels  
in June 2011 after Cummins announced it would add 600 new professional employees  
and build a new office building in downtown Columbus, Ind.120  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |     FINaNCIal  
Cummins’ presence in Africa dates back to 
World War II, but it’s only been in the last few years that the Company has begun to 
view the continent as a significant future 
growth market.
In 2010, the Company completed work on 
its Africa strategy, which takes a continent-
wide view of Cummins’ capability to serve 
a range of diverse markets. Much like the Company’s efforts to establish an early foothold in India in the 1960s and China in the 1970s, Cummins is working to lay the 
foundation in Africa today for success in 
future decades.For the first time, Cummins has a team dedicated to growing the Company’s business across the entire continent - from 
powering the gold mines of Ghana and 
South Africa, to meeting the significant electricity demands in Nigeria to better serving customers in remote regions. 
“Africa is one of the next great emerging 
regions of the world and holds great promise for Cummins,” said Cummins Africa leader Brady Southwick. “We have an ambitious plan to grow our business across 
the continent over the next decade, and 
want to achieve that growth by acting in a way that is consistent with our values.” 
Cummins is investing significantly in  
Africa - $75 million over the next five years – 
to achieve its goals of quadrupling sales on the continent to $1 billion in 2015.
At the heart of Cummins’ Africa strategy  
is a commitment to the Company’s 
customers, employees and communities. 
Cummins’ goal is to attain a leadership position in all its primary markets in the continent – power generation, mining and 
filtration – by differentiating itself through 
superior customer support.This is Africa’s time for Cummins
A billboard heading west out of  
Accra, the capital of Ghana, 
advertises Cummins’ distributor 
business in the country. The 
Company is planning to increase its 
presence throughout the continent.INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |     FINaNCIal  
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  121At the same time, the Company strongly 
believes that to be successful in Africa in the long-term it must develop a world class 
set of local leaders to drive business and 
change across the continent. Following a model that has been successful in China and India, Cummins already has begun 
to identify and develop local talent across 
Africa that will lead the Company’s work  in the future.
Finally, Cummins is taking a holistic 
approach to its growth in Africa.  
The Company recognizes that it has an 
opportunity and a responsibility to help strengthen the communities in which it operates around the continent and has  
built a strong corporate responsibility 
component into its Africa strategy. 
A member of the Company’s Corporate 
Responsibility organization sits on the Cummins Africa leadership team, helping 
drive alignment with the Company’s values 
and building on the good work already done in some communities with Cummins facilities in Africa. 
The Company has played a key role, for 
example, in the launch and early success of the Ithemba Institute in the Soweto section of Johannesburg, which provides secondary education and technical training to students 
in one of the poorest areas of the city. In addition to financial support, Cummins employees provide significant volunteer 
support to the school.
“Strong communities are vital to the 
success of any business,” Southwick said, “and we are committed to doing our part  
to help improve the communities in which 
we live and work across Africa.”“Strong communities are vital to the 
success of any business, and we are 
committed to doing our part to help 
improve the communities in which 
we live and work across Africa.”
bRady sOUTHWICK 
CUMMINS AFRICA LEADER
An employees works on an  
engine at the Cummins  
distributor business in Ghana. 
Today, the Company has 
25 facilities in Africa and 
approximately 1,100 employees 
with plans to significantly accelerate 
growth on the continent between now and 2015.122  |  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  Cummins Inc. 
INTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |     FINaNCIal  
Every Cummins business segment faces 
the challenge of delivering the right product or service to the right place at the right time 
to meet customer demands. Meeting those 
demands while building sustainable supply chains compounds the challenge.
Developing supply chains across Cummins 
that reduce the Company’s carbon footprint 
is one of the goals of the new Corporate Supply Chain organization.
Led by Lisa Yoder, Vice President – Global 
Supply Chain, the organization was created 
in mid-2010 to take a more comprehensive 
approach to the Company’s supply chains so they deliver to customers with speed, dependability and efficiency. 
“Our supply base is all over the world  
and our customers are all over the world,” Yoder said. “So to operate in that environment and to deliver on customer requirements, we really need to get much 
more effective at the supply  
chain elements.”
Building sustainable – or green – supply 
chains means figuring out ways to reduce 
the amount of packaging on products 
so there isn’t as much waste, combining shipments so that delivery trucks don’t travel half empty and using shipping materials that can be reused or recycled 
rather than discarded. Several critical projects have been 
completed that will help lay the  groundwork for future work: 
 »The first-ever survey of suppliers  was launched to learn how many of Cummins’ suppliers are measuring the impact of their products and processes 
on the environment.
 »Cummins published green supply chain 
principles, spelling out the Company’s commitment to sustainability. They ask suppliers to help build sustainability by 
reducing or minimizing their impact on  
the environment.
 »The Company outlined three-to-five year goals for creating an environmentally 
sustainable supply chain. Work is 
underway to identify projects to  meet the goals.
Cummins also piloted a carbon measurement tool for transportation  
and packaging in 2010. The tool creates  
a simple way to measure the impact –  or carbon footprint – of packaging and shipping products. 
Packaging is one area where substantial 
gains can be made by reducing waste or allowing materials to be recycled. That is why a Cummins Six Sigma team is working to establish global packaging standards 
and implement them in at least one region – 
Europe – in 2011. Cummins works to make supply chains sustainableINTRO    |    ENVIRONMENT    |    GOVERNANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT    |    CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY    |    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS    |     FINaNCIal  
Cummins Inc.  sUsT aINabIlITy RepORT 2011  |  123
solso: a leader driven by sustainability
Many factors go into the sustainability of a 
company – financial success, environmental responsibility, community involvement, 
ethics, an exceptional workforce and an 
engaging workplace. Tim Solso has had  a transformational impact on all these  areas during his 12 years as Chairman  
and CEO at Cummins. 
First and foremost, the Company returned 
to a solid financial footing under Tim’s leadership. The operational improvements implemented over his tenure have led to the 
financial success we’re enjoying today.
Success has enabled the Company 
to invest in research and development that has kept Cummins at the forefront 
of technical innovation to the point we 
see environmental regulations as a business opportunity – not a burden. In the past decade, Cummins has also taken extraordinary steps to reduce its 
own environmental footprint. The use of 
Six Sigma as a tool to both improve our products and our practices has been something Tim promoted fervently.
Cummins expanded on its already 
outstanding community involvement work over the past 12 years, helping to build stronger communities and ultimately stronger markets for our products. This report includes a few examples from around the world. Tim frequently says visiting these projects are one of the best 
parts of his job.
Finally, Cummins has made significant 
strides in developing a diverse, ethical  and highly skilled workforce. Creating  
an inclusive workplace where people can 
reach their full potential is something Tim cares deeply about. The Company, under his leadership, implemented a number of initiatives addressing ethics, skills 
enhancement and leadership development.
In short, Tim’s leadership has been all about 
creating a sustainable company. I am so grateful for the opportunity to work closely 
with him and to learn from his example.  
I know what he has helped build will serve our Company well for years to come.
Thank you Tim! I wish you great happiness 
in your retirement. You will be missed.
Tom
Tom linebarger 
President and  
Chief Operating Officer Cummins Inc.
sOlsO’s TeNURe  leadING CUmmINs
A few measurements of 
Cummins’ success under  
Tim Solso’s leadership:
 »Sales grew from  $6.6 billion in 2000 to  
$13.2 billion in 2010.
 »From 2000 to 2010,  
shareholders enjoyed a  total return of 13.2 billion.
 »International business  
grew from 40 percent  
of sales in 2000 to more than 60 percent in 2010.
 »The Company won 
numerous awards for 
diversity, corporate responsibility and  environmental achievements.
Linebarger will succeed  
Solso as Cummins’ leader  
in January 2012.Cummins’ sustainability reporting doesn’t end with this document.  
 
Go to our Web site – www.cummins.com/sustainability – for regular updates  
on how we’re meeting the needs of all of our stakeholders  
and practicing good corporate citizenship.Cummins Inc.
Box 3005
Columbus, Indiana 47202-3005
U.S.A.
cummins.com
©2011 Cummins Inc.
Bulletin Number 4986098
Cummins Inc.     SuStaInabIlIty RepoR t 2010 –2011