 
 1 
 
Cummins Inc.  
Sustainability Report  
 
 
Table of Contents  
 
 Vision and Strategy       Page   3 
      
 Profile         Page   5 
       
 Governance Structure and Management System s Page   8  
 
 Commitment to Stakeholders     Page  13 
   
 Performance Indicators       
        
  Economic Performance Indicators    Page  16  
 
  Environmental Performance Indicators     
 
   Cummins Products     Page  17 
  
   Cummins Facilities     Page  28 
 
   Safety       Page  39 
    
Social Performance Indicators    Page  42 
   
Diversity        Page  46 
     
 Contact Data        Page  49 
           
  
  2 From the Chairman  
 
Cummins Inc. has a strong commitment to developing business solutions and products that 
meet the ne eds of customers. We also focus on providing value to our many stakeholders – 
shareholders, employees, business partners, suppliers, vendors and the communities in 
which we live and work.  We do this while operating under a set of values that emphasize 
integrity, innovation, delivering superior results, corporate responsibility, diversity and global 
involvement.  
 
We are pleased to provide insight into many aspects of Cummins and its operations in this, 
our second Sustainability Report. The goal of this repo rt is to engage stakeholders in 
examining Cummins culture, practices and performance across a number of measures.  
 
We have particularly emphasized the strong responsibility we feel to ensure that our 
manufacturing processes and the facilities in which we c onduct our business adhere to 
policies and procedures that protect and preserve the environment.  
 
The information in this report is presented in the spirit of the guidelines set by the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI).  The aim of the GRI is to develop a consistent way for companies 
around the world to voluntarily report on the economic, environmental and social 
components of their business.  
 
Started in 1997 by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES), the 
GRI became independent in 2002 and works in collaboration with the United Nations 
Environment Program (UNEP) and the UN Secretary -General’s Global Compact.  
We are proud of the positive impact Cummins products and the people who manufacture 
them have had on our society. We look forw ard to the opportunity to make a difference, not 
just today but for future generations as well.  
 
Tim Solso  
Chairman, CEO -- Cummins Inc.  
 
 
  
  3  
____________________________Vision and Strategy  
 
Our Vision  
 
Making people’s lives better by unleashing the pow er of Cummins.  
 
That simple, yet ambitious, statement serves as the guiding vision for Cummins Inc. and its 
employees worldwide.  
 
The Company takes pride in manufacturing engines, generators, filters and related products 
that serve the varied needs of its  customers worldwide. To do that, Cummins unleashes the 
power of its employees: Their energy and commitment make it possible for the Company to 
maintain a leadership position in the markets it serves.  
 
Cummins also recognizes that with its role as a corpor ate leader comes a responsibility to 
help improve the communities in which employees work and live. It is a responsibility the 
Company brings to life through its actions and the activities of its employees. Accordingly, 
Cummins corporate mission and values  reflect its desire to return value to its customers, 
employees, shareholders and communities:  
 
Mission  
 
 To motivate people to act like owners working together  
 To exceed customers’ expectations by always being first to market with the best 
products  
 To part ner with our customers to ensure their success  
 To demand that everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment  
 To create wealth for all our stakeholders  
 
 Values  
 
 Integrity: We strive to do what is right and what we say we will do.  
 Innovat ion: We will apply the creative ingenuity necessary to make us better, faster, 
first. 
 Delivering Superior Results: Our goal is to consistently exceed expectations.  
 Corporate Responsibility: We will serve and improve the communities in which we 
live. 
 Divers ity: We embrace the diverse perspectives of all people and honor them with 
both dignity and respect.  
 Global involvement:  We seek a world view and to act without boundaries.  
 
Strategic Principles  
 
Central to Cummins business is a five -pronged strategic appr oach that focuses on the 
following:  
 
 
  
  4  Being a low -cost producer in as many of the Company’s markets as possible.  
Nearly all of the Company’s markets compete on price. To be successful, Cummins must 
offer the best products at the best prices. To do that, the Company continually scrutinizes 
its businesses looking for cost savings.  
 
The Six Sigma quality program, launched in January 2000, does that for Cummins. Since 
its inception, more than 2,700 completed Six Sigma projects have resulted in 
approximately $ 1 billion in savings to the Company, while infusing quality as a critical 
measure into every process. More than 2,300 “belts” have been trained in Six Sigma tools.  
 
 Expanding into related markets.  
At Cummins, expansion doesn’t merely mean entering new bus inesses, but also 
leveraging existing assets and capabilities and reaching into related businesses with more 
favorable dynamics. The Company’s focus is on businesses that complement its capital -
intensive and cyclical core businesses. Examples include the c reation in 2002 of the 
International Distributor Business and Emission Solutions, an aftertreatment venture of the 
Filtration Business.  
 
 Maximizing return on investment.  
The Company has shifted its emphasis from revenue growth toward consistent and 
predict able earnings growth in the last few years.  The principal measurements are return 
on equity and return on average net assets, and the Company has set aggressive targets 
for each measurement.  
 
 Leveraging complementary businesses.  
Increasingly, Cummins look s for ways to leverage the synergies among its four business 
units. These synergies capitalize on shared capabilities including technology, distribution 
systems, common customers (cross selling), joint venture partners for global growth and 
cost reduction through the larger scale of shared services.  
 
 Creating the right environment for success.  
Cummins relies on the varied talents of its people, systems and organizational knowledge 
to reduce costs and to create differentiated products and services to grow t he value of its 
business.  Creating an inclusive learning environment with a performance ethic is a critical 
step in attracting, developing and retaining high -quality talent, particularly in critical skills 
areas.  The circumstances of Cummins competitive position and market and industry 
dynamics make retention and redeployment of talent a required organizational objective 
and competency.  
  
  5  
_______________________________________ Profile  
 
Cummins roots are planted in soil nourished by innovation, persisten ce and a commitment 
to community. Founded in Columbus, Ind., in 1919 as the Cummins Engine Company, for its 
namesake Clessie Lyle Cummins, the fledgling firm was among the first to see the 
commercial potential of an unproven engine technology invented two decades earlier by 
Rudolph Diesel.  
 
Today, the Company is no longer just an engine business, but a global power leader with 
more than $6 billion in annual sales.  Cummins is a family of four interrelated, yet diversified 
businesses that create or enhance v alue as a result of doing business with each other or 
having those relationships. These four businesses are the Engine Business, Power 
Generation, Filtration and the International Distributor Business.  
 
Cummins products can be found in nearly every type o f vehicle, from the heavy -duty diesel -
powered trucks that travel the world’s highways, to tractors that till the soil, large trucks that 
carry natural resources from the mine and ships that travel the waterways. Cummins -built 
generators supply both prime a nd auxiliary power around the globe. Filters and related 
products help engines run cleaner and more efficiently. A network of distributors provide 
repair and maintenance service for customers worldwide.  
 
Engine Business  
 
The Engine Business, which accounte d for 54 percent of the Company’s sales in 2003, 
manufactures and markets a complete line of diesel and natural gas -powered engines for 
on-highway and off -highway use under the Cummins brand. Its markets include heavy - and 
medium - duty truck, bus, recreati onal vehicle (RV), light -duty automotive and a number of 
industrial uses including agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas and 
governmental equipment. The Engine Business also provides a full range of new parts and 
services and remanufactur ed parts and engines through an extensive distribution network.  
 
Cummins engines range in size from 31  to 3,500 horsepower and from 1.4 liters to 91 liters. 
Primary customers include large truck and off -road equipment manufacturers, and Cummins 
also is the  exclusive supplier of diesel engines used by DaimlerChrysler in its Dodge Ram 
pickup trucks. In 2002, Cummins became the first engine manufacturer to comply with the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s tightened diesel emissions standards.  
 
Power Gene ration Business  
 
Power Generation is Cummins second largest business unit, representing 20 percent of total 
sales in 2003, and one of the most integrated providers of power solutions in the world. With 
the Engine Business, it designs or manufactures all th e components that make up power 
generation systems, including engines, controls, alternators, transfer switches and 
switchgear. It is also a key player in the distributed generation market.  
 
Products are principally marketed under the Cummins Power Genera tion, Onan, Stamford, 
Markon and AVK brands, and include diesel and alternative fuel electrical generator sets for  
  6 commercial, institutional and consumer applications, such as office buildings, hospitals, 
factories, municipalities, utilities, universities,  RVs, boats and homes.  
 
Power Generation is the worldwide leader in auxiliary generator sets for RVs, commercial 
vehicles and marine applications. The Power Rent business offers temporary equipment for 
both standby and prime power purposes. The Energy Solu tions business provides full 
service power solutions for customers, including generating equipment, long -term 
maintenance contracts and turn -key power solutions.  
 
The Newage AVK/SEG division is a leader in the alternator industry and supplies its 
products  internally as well as to other generator set assemblers under the Stamford, AVK 
and Markon brands.  
 
Filtration Business  
 
The Filtration Business manufactures and markets filtration systems, air intake and exhaust 
systems and industrial silencers under th e Fleetguard, Nelson, Kuss and Universal Silencer 
brands.  
 
Products are used in diesel -powered mobile and stationary industrial applications, 
passenger cars and light vehicles, small engine equipment, industrial machinery and gas 
turbines. Primary custome rs include OEMs, as well as dealers and distributors.  
 
Fleetguard is a leading designer and manufacturer of filters and filtration systems for heavy -
duty equipment. Its products are produced and sold in global markets, including Europe, 
North America, Sout h America, India, China, South Africa, Australia and the Far East.  
 
Through its Emission Solutions Business, Filtration develops systems to help customers 
meet increasingly stringent emissions standards. Fleetguard also designs and manufactures 
air filtra tion and exhaust systems for on - and off -highway applications, ranging from heavy -
duty equipment to small engine consumer applications.  
 
Holset, whose financial results are included as part of the Filtration and Other segment, 
designs and manufactures turb ochargers in five countries and has worldwide sales and 
distribution. Holset provides critical technology for engines to meet worldwide emission 
standards, including variable geometry turbochargers, and is the market leader in 
turbochargers for heavy -duty equipment.  
 
 International Distributor Business  
 
The International Distributor Business was created in 2002 as a result of the growing size 
and importance of the retail distribution business. In 2003, International Distributor Business 
sales accounted for 10 percent of Cummins total net sales. The Business is a network of 17 
Company -owned distributors and one joint venture that distribute the full range of Company 
products and services to end -users at 116 locations in 77 countries and territories.  Through 
this network, trained personnel provide parts and service to customers. They also offer full 
service solutions, including maintenance contracts, engineering services and integrated 
products, which are customized to meet specific end -user requirements.  
  
  7 The business serves a highly diverse customer base consisting of various end -users in the 
specific geographic markets in which distributors are located. Each distributor Cummins 
owns or operates in a particular geographic region competes with other distribut ors and 
dealers that offer similar products within that region.  
 
Because service is critical as a platform for customer solutions, the Business has opened 
new locations in Russia, Argentina, Italy, Belgium, the United Kingdom and China.  
 
  
  8 __Governance Str ucture and Management Systems  
 
Cummins is governed by a nine -member Board of Directors. Among the directors, only 
Cummins Chief Executive Officer Theodore (Tim) M. Solso is a current employee of the 
Company.  Board members are:  
 
Tim Solso – Elected Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board at Cummins in 
2000, after serving as Company President since 1995. He joined Cummins in 1971, 
after earning his MBA degree from Harvard University. He is a director of Ball Corp. Inc., 
Irwin Financial Corp. and A shland Inc. and is a member of the Board of Trustees at 
DePauw University.  
 
Robert J. Darnall - Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Inland Steel 
Industries and a Cummins director since 1989. Darnall is a Director of Household 
International Inc. , Pactiv Corp., Sunoco Inc. and United States Steel Corp. He also 
serves as the Director of both the Glenwood School and Junior Achievement of 
Chicago.  
  
John M. Deutch – Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
since 1990 and a Cum mins director since 1997. While on leave from MIT, he served as 
U.S. Director of Central Intelligence in 1995 -96, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense in 
1994 -95 and as an Undersecretary of Defense in 1993 -94. He is a director of Citicorp, 
CMS Energy, Raytheon  Corp. and Schlumberger and is also a Trustee of Resources for 
the Future, the Urban Institute and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations.  
 
Alexis M.  Herman  – Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of New Ventures Inc. and a 
director since 2001. She se rved as U.S. Secretary of Labor from 1997 -2001. She 
currently serves on the Board of Trustees of Xavier University of Louisiana, is 
Chairwoman of the Coca -Cola Co.’s Diversity Task Force and Chair of the Toyota 
Diversity Advisory Board.  She is a director at MGM/Mirage Inc. and Presidential Life 
Insurance Corp.  
 
Georgia Nelson  – President of Midwest Generation EME, LLC, an Edison International 
Company. She joined the Cummins Board in 2004. She serves as a director of Tower 
Automotive. She has been appointed  by the Secretary of Energy in the last two 
administrations to serve on the Executive Committee of the National Coal Council. She 
is a trustee of the Manufacturers Alliance, a director of the Chicagoland Chamber of 
Commerce, trustee of the Peggy Notebaert Nature Museum and a member of the 
advisory committee of the Alexis de Tocqueville Society of the United Way -Chicago.  
 
William I . Miller – Chairman and CEO of Irwin Financial Corp. and a director since 
1989. Prior to moving into his current position, he was  President of Irwin Management 
Co. from 1984 -1990 and continues to serve on that company’s board of directors.  Miller 
also is Chairman of Tipton Lakes Co., a real estate development firm in Columbus, Ind. 
He is a Trustee of the Taft School in Watertown, C onn., and the National Building 
Museum in Washington, D.C.  
  
  9 William D . Ruckelshaus – Strategic Partner at Madrona Venture Group LLP and a 
director since 1971. He was Chairman of Browning -Ferris Industries from 1995 -1999. 
He has held a number of appointed a nd elected governmental positions, including being 
a member of the Indiana House of Representatives, Assistant U.S. Attorney General, 
Deputy Attorney General, Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
and Acting Director of the FBI. He is a  director for Pharmacia Corp., Nordstrom Inc. and 
Weyerhaeuser Co.  
 
Carl Ware  – Retired Executive Vice President, Public Affairs and Administration for the 
Coca -Cola Co. He was named a director in 2004. He is a former member of the Atlanta 
City Council and  served as its President from 1976 to 1979.  He oversaw the merger of 
Clark College and Atlanta University in 1988, and has since served as Chair of the Clark 
Atlanta University Board of Trustees.  He is chairman of the Nelson Mandela Invitational 
golf tou rnament to benefit the Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund.  He serves as a director 
of ChevronTexaco, Georgia Power, Coca -Cola Bottlers Consolidated, PGA TOUR Golf 
Course Properties and the Atlanta Falcons.   
 
J. Lawrence Wilson – Retired Chairman and Chief Ex ecutive Officer of Rohm and 
Haas Co. and a director since 1990. He is board member at Vanderbilt University and a 
director of the Vanguard Group Investment Cos., MeadWestvaco Corp. and 
AmerisourceBergen Corp.  
 
 Corporate Governance Principles for the Board   
 
The primary mission of the Board of Directors is to represent and protect the interests of the 
Company’s stakeholders.  In so doing, the Board has the legal responsibility for overseeing 
the affairs of the Company, and has certain specified powers and a uthorities with respect to 
corporate action provided by Indiana statutes.   
 
The Board’s oversight function is exercised through the election and appointment of 
competent officers.  The Board relies on the integrity, expertise and competency of these 
officers in carrying out its oversight function.   
 
The Board’s responsibilities include the following:  
   
 Adopt corporate governance principles consistent with the Company’s Vision, 
Mission and Values.  
 Exercise sound and independent business judgment with resp ect to significant 
strategic and operational issues, including major capital expenditures, 
diversifications, acquisitions, divestitures and new ventures.  
 Advise senior management.  
 Monitor  
o The performance of the Company  
o The performance of senior management  
o The effectiveness of internal controls and risk management practices  
o Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations  
o Communications and relationships with stakeholders  
  
  10 In discharging its fiduciary duties to act in the best interests of the Company, the Board 
considers the effect of its actions on shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, 
communities and the interests of society as represented by our regulators. Link here for the 
Corporate Governance Principles.  
  
Committees of the Board  
 
The Boa rd has seven standing committees: Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
Compensation Committee, Governance and Nominating Committee, Finance Committee, 
Technology and Environment Committee and Proxy Committee. The responsibilities of the 
Audit, Compensatio n, Governance and Nominating, Finance and Technology and 
Environment committees are set forth in written committee charters approved by the Board.  
Link here for Committee Charters.  
 
The Company complies with all NYSE and regulatory requirements concerning  the 
membership of certain committees, including the requirements with respect to independence 
and financial expertise.  The Governance and Nominating Committee reviews the committee 
structures of the Board and the membership of the various committees annu ally, and makes 
recommendations for any changes to the Board.   
    
  11 Code of Business Conduct  
 
Cummins Code of Business Conduct serves as the blueprint for the Company’s commitment 
to act  with integrity, to do what is right and what we say we will do. This driving principle is 
reflected in all of the Company’s dealings with customers, suppliers, shareholders, 
employees and the countries and communities in which it does business.  
 
The Code addresses a number of issues, including:  
 
 Providing safe and innovativ e products that meet or exceed appropriate emissions 
standards  
 Competing vigorously, but with integrity  
 Complying with all applicable governmental regulations and laws  
 Conflicts and potential conflicts of interest with suppliers and customers  
 Proper treatm ent of others at work  
 The value of diversity in the workplace  
 Promoting a safe workplace  
 Valuing the environment  
 Contributing to the communities in which employees work and live  
 Ensuring accuracy and openness in financial reporting  
 Maintaining the confiden tiality of persons who report violations of Company policies, 
procedures and rules of conduct, including sexual harassment and other improper 
conduct  
 
The Code includes a section that deals with expectations regarding employees’ treatment of 
suppliers and other business partners. The policies specifically address issues of conflict of 
interest, exchange of gifts and the need to conduct business with integrity at all times. Link 
to the Code of Conduct.  
 
The Cummins Operating System  
 
The Cummins Operating Sy stem (COS) helps develop common practices and approaches 
designed to improve customer satisfaction and profitability. This structured, measurable 
approach ensures that Cummins values and mission are faithfully executed across all 
departments and business u nits.  
 
The COS consists of 10 operating practices that are common across the Company. It is 
supported by 10 common functions, each with a Functional Excellence framework. 
Employees are trained on the COS and Functional Excellence approaches and their 
impo rtance to Cummins future success.  
 
A key aspect of the Functional Excellence approach at Cummins involves promoting 
leadership across all business units and groups. Leaders at Cummins are measured on their 
ability to:  
 Drive the organization toward the Visi on by accomplishing the Mission  
 Live and foster the Cummins core values of integrity, innovation, delivering 
superior results, diversity, global involvement and corporate responsibility  
 Focus on customer success and deliver results  
 Create an environment i n which people can develop and contribute, and where 
championship teams flourish   
  12 Government Relations  
 
Beyond Cummins manufacturing processes, the Company is involved in the setting of public 
policy to help establish processes that will lead to desired g oals.  
 
In August 2001, Cummins formed an office in Washington, D.C., to coordinate government 
relations activities for the corporation.   
 
The office provides strategic insight and advice to Cummins business leaders on emerging 
government issues and activi ties, provides top -level access to government officials and key 
policymakers, develops and implements government relations strategies to achieve 
business objectives and advances business marketing objectives relative to government 
programs.  
 
The office ele vates government issues to senior management, ensures alignment with 
Cummins businesses and objectives, and identifies and aggressively resolves key 
government issues for the corporation.  Specific areas of activity include energy policy; 
environment; tax;  trade; transportation; government research and development; government 
markets; workplace and human resources issues; defense and homeland security and 
facility and infrastructure programs.   
  13  
___________________ Commitment to Stakeholders  
 
Cummins recogni zes that its duty goes beyond the bottom line. While Cummins must deliver 
value to shareholders, it also strives to responsibly and effectively serve all stakeholders – 
customers, employees, business partners and the communities in which it operates.  
 
The Company actively engages all stakeholders, seeking feedback and doing its best to 
keep them informed of Cummins actions and performance. The Company’s policies reflect a 
commitment to financial excellence, environmental stewardship, workplace equity, socia l 
responsibility and fair competition.  
 
Customers:  
Cummins is dedicated to exceeding the expectations of its customers, making products and 
providing support that give customers a competitive advantage in the marketplace.  
 
Cummins works with key customers during the development and production of products to 
ensure that they are manufactured to the customers’ satisfaction. For example, Cummins 
and DaimlerChrysler engineers worked closely on Cummins latest turbo diesel engine for 
the 2004 ½ Dodge Ram pickup t ruck, which was named one of the top 10 engines of 2004 
by Ward’s Communications, a leading industry magazine.  
 
The Company also is committed to continuously improving quality while controlling costs. 
Cummins has an active and growing Six Sigma program tha t extends to working with 
customers and suppliers.  
 
Employees:  
Cummins has a long history of being an employer of choice. That reputation continues to 
this day and is reinforced by the Company’s competitive salary and benefits offerings, 
training and care er development opportunities and positive work environment.  
 
Cummins employees enjoy a full slate of benefits, including innovative and competitively 
priced health -care coverage; pension and retirement programs; generous tuition 
reimbursement benefits for continuing education; access to world -class child development 
centers and more. These benefits also were made available to non -spousal domestic 
partners in 2000.  
 
Cummins places a premium on its workers treating one another with respect and dignity.  
Treatm ent of others at work is a key component of the Company’s Code of Business 
Conduct and is the subject of mandatory training for all new hires. Training and career 
development opportunities also play a crucial role in Cummins success and in the 
Company’s ef forts to attract and retain a top workforce. All new hires must attend mandatory 
training courses covering treatment of others; diversity; information and physical security; 
sexual harassment issues; the Cummins Performance Management System and the 
Cummin s Operating System.  
  
  14 In addition, the Company’s Powertrain program offers on -line training on a variety of 
subjects, ranging from business software applications to project management skills to 
interpersonal and communications skills to presentation and le adership skills.  
 
Employees’ performance and development plans are reviewed through the Cummins  
Performance Management System (CPMS). Through CPMS, employees work with their 
supervisors to create challenging work plans that reflect the goals of the Company  and its 
individual performance cells. Employees receive quarterly formal feedback from supervisors 
and peers, in addition to a comprehensive annual evaluation.  
 
Cummins also offers its employees myriad challenges and opportunities for growth within 
the Co mpany as their skills and interests dictate. Cummins has a strong history of “growing 
its own” leaders, and employees regularly move freely from one part of the Company to 
another.  
 
Employees are encouraged to seek out new challenges and to continually br oaden their skill 
sets. High -potential employees are identified and offered comprehensive leadership training 
as part of the Company’s ongoing efforts to develop its leaders from within.  
 
Business partners:  
Cummins has working relationships with distributo rs and suppliers across the world. 
Similarly, the Company acts as a supplier of components to a number of equipment 
manufacturers, and has been able to build strong bonds with its business partners.  
 
The Company is proud of its efforts to earn “preferred s upplier” status with customers such 
as PACCAR, a major truck manufacturer, and its standing as one of DaimlerChrysler’s 
highest SCOREing (Supplier Cost Reduction Effort) suppliers.  
 
Shareholders:  
Returning value, in the terms of profits, rising stock price s and dividends, is the primary 
measure of a company’s commitment to its shareholders.  
 
For a three -year period, ending in mid -2003, Cummins primary businesses struggled 
through perhaps the worst slump in 30 years.  Through that period, which saw Cummins 
lose money in 2001, the Company reduced costs and made the difficult decisions necessary 
to ensure that it would be well -positioned to take advantage of the inevitable economic 
recovery.  
 
Even as the Company fought to pull itself out of the industry wide d ownturn, it continued to 
offer one of the more generous dividends – 30 cents a share per quarter – in corporate 
America. That dividend has remained unchanged for nearly five years, despite the turbulent 
economic climate.  
 
Over the past year, Cummins effort s at cost control and quality improvement have paid off 
as its key markets have recovered with considerable speed. Cummins stock price has nearly 
doubled since June 2003 and in late 2004 hit a seven -year high, providing considerable 
return to shareholders.   
 
Beyond returning financial value, Cummins believes strongly that it owes investors a   
  15 transparent window into its financial workings. Cummins goes to great lengths to keep the 
investing community up -to-date on the Company’s performance and future outlook . Top 
executives hold quarterly teleconferences with industry analysts to discuss financial results. 
Company representatives also attend a number of investor conferences during the year, and 
meet or talk directly with individual analysts and investors on n early a daily basis.  
 
And for much of this year, Cummins has devoted significant resources to meeting the letter 
and spirit of the Sarbanes -Oxley regulations. The Company is well on its way to 
documenting, testing and certifying its financial controls and processes in accordance with 
Sarbanes -Oxley, and Cummins views the regulations as an important improvement tool in 
ensuring transparency in its financial reporting.  
 
Communities:  
Cummins and its employees are actively engaged in improving people’s lives in  the 
communities in which the Company operates.  
 
The Company encourages volunteer efforts among its employees, a key supplement to 
Cummins corporate giving program, which makes funds available to worthwhile social 
causes – with an emphasis on education, em ployment, health issues and the environment -- 
in its communities. In addition, one of Cummins core corporate values is to ensure that the 
work we do contributes to a cleaner, healthier environment for everyone.  
 
Those efforts are detailed in the “Social Responsibility” and “Environmental” sections of this 
report.   
  16 ___Performance Indicators: Economic Performance  
 
Over the last several years, the Company has launched new businesses, built partnerships 
and expanded its global reach, while keeping investments  in new capital low.  Cummins has 
introduced quality products that have been well received by customers. It continues to fund 
important development efforts even as it has tightened spending and worked to control 
costs.  
 
Net sales were $6.3 billion in 2003 , 8 percent higher than sales of $5.9 billion reported in 
2002 and 11 percent higher than sales of $5.7 billion reported in 2001. Cummins reported 
earnings before interest, taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change of $181 million in 
2003, compared with $139 million in 2002 and a loss of $44 million in 2001, including a $126 
million charge for restructuring, asset impairment and other non -recurring items. In 2003, 
Cummins reported net earnings of $50 million, or $1.27 per share, compared with net 
earnings of $82 million, or $2.13 per share in 2002 and a net loss of $103 million, or $2.70 
per share in 2001. In 2002, net earnings included favorable income tax adjustments of $57 
million, or $1.47 per share, related to the settlement of prior -year tax aud its. 
 
Cummins has provided shareholders with an attractive dividend. In 2003, the Company’s 
stock provided an 80.2 percent total return for Cummins shareholders, including both share 
price appreciation and the compounding effect of the dividend. That retur n compared very 
favorably to total returns for major indices, including the Dow Jones Industrial Average at 
28.3 percent, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index at 28.7 percent and the Russell 2000 
at 49.5 percent.  
 
Detailed financial information can be fou nd in the Company’s filings with the U. S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission, which is available on the Investor Information section of the 
Company web site, www.cummins.com . 
  
  17 _______________ Performance Indicators:  Products  
 
Cummins products are designed to provide customers with the highest levels of 
performance, durability and dependability at the lowest cost of operation.  At the same time, 
the Company is committed to meeting and exceeding clean air standards.  
 
To achieve its commitment, Cummins has long been a pioneer in emissions research and 
development, investing in critical technologies to achieve future emissions standards while 
meeting the needs of the customer. The emissions solutions the Company uses tod ay are 
the result of a technology plan set in motion in the early 1990s. This plan will carry Cummins 
through 2010 and beyond.  
 
At the core of this road map was a strategic decision not to limit the Company’s approach, 
but to develop the right technology f or each application and market served. Different 
operating conditions and factors can and will influence the technology path for each market. 
While developing multiple emissions solutions has required a broader and deeper 
investment in research and develop ment, the Company believes it will guarantee the 
Cummins customers optimum performance and reliability at the lowest possible cost of 
operation.  
 
In 2003, the Company’s research and development expenditures were $187 million, or 3 
percent of sales.  
 
More  than half of the $2.1 billion spent by Cummins on research and development in the last 
10 years has been invested in emissions reduction technologies.  Nothing the Company 
does is more important.  
 
A second, but no less important part of the Cummins clean  diesel strategy has been to 
involve original equipment manufacturers as early as possible in the development and 
integration process. This open exchange of information and technology has been – and will 
continue to be – instrumental in developing high -performance products that deliver optimum 
performance and reliability at the lowest total cost.  
 
The Right Technology Matters  
 
Leadership in combustion research, fuel systems, air -handling systems, controls and 
aftertreatment allows Cummins to maintain its go al of maximizing customer value by 
providing the most appropriate emissions control solution for each market served.   
 
In Europe, for example, new on -highway emissions standards (Euro IV) will be introduced 
beginning October 2005. Cummins will meet these standards using Selective Catalytic 
Reduction (SCR) aftertreatment. SCR is the best customer solution for this market because 
diesel fuel prices are very high in Europe and the use of urea to reduce fuel consumption 
makes economic sense. Urea is a chemical  generally made from natural gas and commonly 
used in fertilizers.  
 
For the U. S. on -highway truck market, Cummins has been the leader in the application of 
cooled Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) technology. Cooled EGR is a very effective NOx  
  18 control. Duri ng combustion, EGR reduces flame temperatures, which, in turn, reduces NOx 
production.  This allows the engine to be tuned for the best fuel economy and performance 
at lower NOx levels. EGR technology is the foundation for Cummins 2007 products and 
beyond.   
 
From April 2002 through December 2003, Cummins cooled EGR engines accumulated more 
than a billion miles of service, providing low cost of operation and reliable operation.  
 
 
Emissions Regulations and Cummins Product Goals  
 
Since the 1970s, Cummins on -highway engines have been regulated by the EPA and similar 
regulatory agencies around the world for combustion emissions, including carbon monoxide 
(CO), hydrocarbons (HC), oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and particulate matter (PM).  
 
In general, diesel engines emp loy an oxygen -rich, fuel -lean combustion process that 
promotes complete combustion of the fuel.  Since CO and HC are results of incomplete 
combustion, diesel engines produce low CO and HC emissions due to their high fuel 
efficiency.   
 
Cummins works closel y with regulatory bodies to seek emission reductions that are 
necessary, yet are technologically feasible while meeting customers’ needs.  
 
When compared to emissions from unregulated engines, today's on -highway diesel engines 
emit 90 percent less PM and n early 90 percent less NOx.  Cummins is required to reduce 
PM and NOx from these diesel engines by the end of the decade to standards that are 99 
percent less than the unregulated levels.    
 
 
U.S. On -highway Emission Standards  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
05101520
1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015Oxides of Nitrogen
(g/kWh)
0.00.51.01.52.0Particulate Matter
(g/kWh)
YearNOx
PM85%
Additional
14%90%
Add’l
9%
05101520
1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015Oxides of Nitrogen
(g/kWh)
0.00.51.01.52.0Particulate Matter
(g/kWh)
YearNOx
PM85%
Additional
14%90%
Add’l
9% 
  19 Off-highwa y engines produced by Cummins are also subject to emission standards.  
While the combustion process for off -highway engines is fundamentally the same as for on -
highway engines, the emission control strategies are not interchangeable because of the 
broad ho rsepower range, unusual applications, and duty cycles required for off -highway  
products.   
 
Between 1995 and 2003, there has been a 70 percent reduction in NOx emissions from off -
highway engines.  Between 2011 and 2015, off -highway engines will be controll ed to the 
same level of compliance as the on -highway engines. By 2015, NOx emissions from off -
highway engines will be 98 percent lower than they were in 1995.  
 
For the 2003 model year, the Company continued to meet and exceed its requirement for 
emissions  compliance across its product line.  
 
Cummins Engine Emissions Compared  
To Standards established  by the EPA  
 
T o n s  o f  P M  E mi s s i o n s  p e r  A u t o mo t i v e  E n g i n e  So l d  O v e r  E n g i n e ' s  U s e f u l  L i f e
00.10.2
2002 2003
M o d e l  Y e a rEstimated Maximum Allowable Emissions by EPA Standards
Estimated Actual Emissions from Cummins Engines
 
 
Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions 
Hydrocarbons (HC)
0500001 000001 50000200000250000300000
2002 2003
Model YearTons of 
Hydrocarbon
 
Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions 
Carbon Monoxide (CO)
05000001 0000001 50000020000002500000300000035000004000000
2002 2003
Model YearTons of Carbon 
Monoxide  
Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions           
Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx)
02000004000006000008000001 000000
2002 2003
Model YearTons of Oxides of 
Nitrogen
 
Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM)
050001 00001 50002000025000
2002 2003
Model YearTons of Particulate 
Matter   
  20  
 
Cummins also participates in a regulatory program called “Averaging, Banking and Trading 
(ABT).”  This program allows emission credit s to be generated and “banked” by a company 
whose products generate emissions that are lower than the regulated level. These banked 
credits may be applied to other engines whose emissions are higher than the standard .  
However, some credits are discounted by a certain percentage depending on engine type 
and ABT program rules.   As a result of this discounting process, a portion of the emissions 
credits go unused by the Company, and are thus a benefit to the environment.  In 2003, 
Cummins donated 1,412 tons o f automotive NOx and 1,330 tons of off -road NOx to the 
environment.   
 
 
The 2007/2010 EPA Emissions and Fuel Rule  
 
Looking ahead to 2007 -2010, emission requirements change dramatically for heavy -duty 
trucks over this period. Both NOx and particulate matter  are reduced by 90 percent from 
2004 levels.  
 
The EPA has allowed for a NOx phase -in from 2007 through 2009. During this time, 50 
percent of the engines produced must meet the stricter, 2007 NOx standard, while 50 
percent may continue to meet the 2004 sta ndard.  
 
The particulate matter requirement is not phased in, and thus all engine production is 
required to be in compliance with the new standard beginning in January 2007.  
 
By 2010 all heavy -duty diesel engines are expected to meet the stringent NOx sta ndard of 
0.2 grams per brake -horsepower hour (g/bhp -hr) and the stringent PM standard of 
0.01g/bhp -hr. 
 
EPA regulations will require advanced on -board diagnostics with additional sensors to 
monitor the effectiveness of emission -control systems on the engin e. 
 
Ultra -Low Sulfur Fuel: In addition to the new exhaust emission standards and in support of 
them, the EPA is lowering the limit for diesel sulfur from 500 parts per million (ppm) to 15 
ppm. The new fuel standard will be phased in beginning Sept. 1, 2006 , (80 percent 
participation) through Sept. 1, 2010 (100 percent participation). The EPA’s on -going 
monitoring of refineries’ progress indicates 15 -ppm fuel will be widely available.  
Ultra -low sulfur fuel has several beneficial effects. It inherently produ ces less particulate 
matter from combustion, so it is a particulate matter control strategy for all equipment in use.  
 
Aftertreatment Solutions: While cooled EGR is an “in -cylinder” technology that can reduce 
NOx, there are several aftertreatment solution s that can achieve reduced NOx levels by 
treating the exhaust gases after they leave the engine. These include Selective Catalytic 
Reduction (SCR), NOx adsorbers and lean -NOx catalysts.  
 
SCR systems use a chemical reductant, in this case urea, which conver ts to ammonia in the 
exhaust stream and reacts with NOx over a catalyst to form harmless nitrogen gas and 
water. Urea is a benign substance that is generally made from natural gas and widely used  
  21 in industry and agriculture. SCR systems are being proposed today for mobile on -highway 
applications.  
 
The NOx adsorber catalyst is a new technology developed in the late 1990s. It uses a 
combination of base metal oxide and precious metal coatings to effect control of NOx. The 
base metal component (for example, bar ium oxide) reacts with NOx to form barium nitrate – 
effectively storing the NOx on the surface of the catalyst. When the available storage sites 
are occupied, the catalyst is operated briefly under “rich” exhaust gas conditions. This 
releases the NOx from the base metal storage sites and allows it to be converted over the 
precious metal components to nitrogen gas and water vapor.  
 
Diesel engines normally operate with an excess ratio of air -to-fuel or a “lean” operation. 
Under lean operating conditions, it i s extremely difficult to control NOx with a catalyst 
because of the excess of oxygen in the exhaust stream. Under lean operating conditions, 
the NOx is simply stored in the catalyst. Regeneration is required to release and convert the 
NOx to nitrogen gas.  
 
Regeneration of the NOx adsorber catalyst requires elimination of all excess oxygen in the 
exhaust gas for a short period of time. This can be accomplished by operating the engine in 
a “rich” mode, or by injecting fuel directly into the exhaust stream ahe ad of the adsorber to 
consume the remaining oxygen in the exhaust. Either way, the engine and catalyst must be 
controlled as a system to determine exactly when regeneration is needed, and to control the 
exhaust parameters during regeneration itself.  
 
Sulfu r poses challenges for NOx adsorbers. In addition to storing NOx, the adsorber catalyst 
also will store sulfur, which reduces the capacity to store NOx. Although fuel sulfur levels are 
being reduced in 2007 to 15 ppm, sulfur at any level poses challenges a nd requires the 
engine design to provide for a periodic de -sulfation process to remove sulfur from the 
catalyst. This is similar to the NOx regeneration process, but at higher temperatures.  
 
A lean -NOx catalyst uses unburned hydrocarbons to reduce NOx over  a catalyst. The 
catalyst may contain precious metals such as platinum. The successful operation of a lean -
NOx catalyst requires continuous injection of fuel upstream of the catalyst. The NOx 
conversion efficiency depends on many factors, but typical value s are in the range of 10 
percent to 25 percent in use over practical duty cycles. Lean -NOx catalysts do not have 
adequate NOx reduction capability for 2007 applications. However, lean -NOx catalysts are 
often an excellent option for retrofits. They are rela tively easy to install and integrate with 
existing engine and vehicle systems.  
 
Particulate Matter Reduction: While previous reductions in particulate matter (soot) 
emissions have been achieved through engine combustion improvements and oxidation 
catalysts , the stringent 2007 particulate standards will require very effective particulate 
aftertreatment.  
 
The active diesel particulate filter is the only current technology option for meeting the U. S. 
2007 particulate standards. This is the technology Cummins will employ to reduce PM 
emissions to the levels necessary in 2007.  
 
A typical filter consists of an array of small channels through which exhaust gas flows. 
Adjacent channels are plugged at opposite ends, forcing the exhaust gas to flow through the  
  22 porous  wall, capturing the soot particles on the surface and inside pores of the media. Soot 
accumulates in the filter, and when sufficient heat is present a “regeneration” event occurs, 
oxidizing the soot and cleaning the filter.  
 
 
Meeting the 2007 Emissions – The Cummins Solution  
 
The Cummins technology plan for on -highway, heavy -duty applications in 2007 is 
straightforward, and includes the following:  
 
 Cummins is well on its way to developing engines to meet the 2007 EPA standards with 
prototype engines alread y in the field for test. The proven products in operation today 
are the base platform for 2007.  
 Cummins is the only engine manufacturer with wholly owned subsidiaries providing 
technology for air -handling (Holset) and aftertreatment systems (Fleetguard Emi ssion 
Solutions). As a result, the Company is able to practice system integration across all 
critical components and subsystems.  
 Cummins will continue to use cooled EGR as the base technology for NOx reduction.  
 Cummins will use a particulate filter to ach ieve the 90 percent reduction in particulate 
matter.  
 
Aftermarket: Emission Solutions   
 
Cummins has leveraged its research and product development with Cummins technology 
expertise to create businesses like Emission Solutions. This Filtration Business subs idiary, 
which specializes in filtration and exhaust products and systems for diesel engines (9 -7000 
horsepower), was created in 2002. It is providing integrated technologies for retrofitting 
engines in service with a variety of aftertreatment products.   
 
Emission Solutions offers a diesel oxidation catalyst which can reduce particulate matter 20 
to 50 percent and carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons by more than 90 percent.   
 
The Filtration Business, through its Fleetguard brand, also offers a variety of envi ronmentally 
friendly products including the following examples:  
 
 Fleetguard’s ES coolant line can last the lifetime of an engine when used with 
certain other products – ensuring the use of less coolant over the life of the 
engine.  
 
 Venturi, LF and Centrigu ard filters remove up to three times the contaminant 
versus full synthetic fiber. This finer filtration extends oil life by 35 to 100 percent 
and reduces wear on engine parts.  
 
 The Enviroguard open crankcase ventilation system filters crankcase blowby 
gases to reduce aerosol oil emissions by more than 65 percent. It also reduces oil 
drip by 99 percent.  
 
 The Fleet -Tech fuel conditioner inhibits corrosion to keep fuel injectors functioning 
at optimal levels for maximum combustion efficiency and fuel economy  
  23 improvements. Increased fuel economy means reduced demand for fuel; lower 
emissions of HC, NOx, CO and particulate matter and reduced fuel costs.  
 
Going Beyond Requirements in Other Countries  
 
Cummins meets or exceeds emission regulations in every country that it operates.  In South 
Africa, where there are no emission regulations, Cummins sells EPA certified 1998/1999 
engines.  Similarly, in Taiwan, emissions regulations require EPA 1994 standards, yet 
Cummins sells EPA 1999 certified engines.  In Mexico, t he Company sells EPA 2004 
certified engines, although the law requires EPA 1999 certified engines.  
 
Cummins has worked closely with the Chinese government and original equipment 
manufacturers to introduce “green engines” to China.  Although China requires engines sold 
in China to meet Euro II standards, more than 1,500 Euro III automotive engines were sold 
in China in 2003 either through Cummins or its joint ventures.  These diesel engines are 
currently being used in Beijing and Shenzhen, as well as a famou s scenic area known as 
the Jiu Zaigou Tourism Zone.  In addition, though China has no countrywide emission 
regulations for industrial applications, Cummins engines comply with EPA 1996 or 1998 
standards, depending on the model.  
 
Recycling Cummins Products  
 
The Company’s environmental focus extends to products beyond their initial useful life.  
Cummins ReCon, for example, is a business that renovates and recycles engine blocks, 
crankshafts, cylinder heads, turbochargers, water, oil and fuel pumps, fuel injec tors, 
aftercoolers, oil coolers, rocker housings, connecting rods and other parts. On average, the 
ReCon Business salvages about 60 percent of an engine’s parts. The remaining 40 percent 
is scrapped for quality reasons. Since scrapped material is sold to r ecyclers, virtually 100 
percent of an engine is either salvaged or sold to companies that recycle the metal.  
 
Future Products  
 
Fuel Cells:  Cummins environmental commitment goes beyond the development of current 
products.  It also encompasses areas where ad vanced research may result in technologies 
applicable for products well into the future.  Such is the case with fuel cell research in 
Cummins Power Generation. The Department of Energy (DOE) has awarded Cummins a 
contract to develop and commercialize a 10 -kilowatt (kW) solid oxide fuel cell system for a 
wide range of commercial applications. Cummins partner in this endeavor is SOFCo, a 
subsidiary of McDermitt International.  Fuel cells use fossil fuels in an efficient and 
environmentally friendly manner and produce direct -current electricity without combustion. 
The only waste products are water vapor and a small amount of carbon dioxide.   
 
Light -Duty Diesel Engines : The synergy of combustion and aftertreatment capability has 
given rise to the success of a li ght-duty diesel research effort designed to meet performance 
and emission requirements for the latter part of this decade.  Through a project funded in 
part by the DOE, Cummins light -duty diesel engine was the first to achieve the stringent Tier 
II (Bin 5)  emission standards for a product in its class.   
  
  24 A DOE report released in August 2004 ( Future Potential of Hybrid and Diesel Powertrains in 
the U.S. Light -Duty Vehicle Market)1 forecasts growth of 4 to 7 percent in light -duty diesel 
vehicles in the U.S. market by 2012. Typically, diesel engines are 20 to 40 percent more 
efficient than comparable gasoline engines. Previous studies by the DOE have found that a 
gradual 20 percent penetration of diesel vehicles by 2020 would save the U.S. 350,000 
barrels of o il each day.   
 
 
Diesel technology accounts for about 40 percent of all new vehicles in Europe.  While 
nowhere near that penetration today,  American consumers will have more diesel choices 
than ever before. Modern clean diesel technology can now available  in four key market 
segments – from economy cars and family station wagons to luxury sedans and SUVs.   
 
 
Engine Innovations Beyond Diesel Engines  
 
Cummins has been in the business since 1988.  Cummins is part of a joint venture with 
Westport Innovations In c., an alternative fuels engine technology company.  Cummins 
Westport develops and markets the world's widest range of high -performance, low -emission 
engines for transit and commercial vehicles, as well as advanced alternative fuel system 
technologies for electrical power generation.  In 2003, approximately 300 natural gas 
engines produced by Cummins Westport were sold to China.  They are being used in Beijing 
as well as western cities like Urumuqi, Chengdu, Xi’an and Chongqing.  
 
Cummins also offers diesel  engines that can be fitted to a hybrid application.  In 2002, the 
New York City Transit Authority added 125 hybrid diesel buses powered by Cummins 
engines to its fleet. In early 2004, New York City ordered 200 hybrid diesel buses in addition 
to its initia l order.  While Cummins has the ability to provide engines that are part of a hybrid 
system, the greatest barrier to selling hybrids is customer demand.  Many metropolitan 
areas are interested in testing hybrid buses, yet few are changing significant porti ons of their 
fleets over to hybrids as New York City has.   
 
Supporting Independent Health Research  
 
In the early 1980s, Cummins anticipated the need for sound, independent research on the 
health effects of mobile source emissions.   In response to that nee d, the Company – 
together with the EPA – was instrumental in chartering the Health Effects Institute  
(www.healtheffects.org ), which provides unbiased information on the health effects of motor 
vehicle emissions.   This institution receives equal funding from the EPA and the motor 
vehicle industry.  Today, Cummins continues to support this important work, even as 
exhaust emissions have improved considerably since the In stitute was established.  In 
addition, Cummins supports various efforts at renowned research institutions that focus on 
the health effects of mobile source emissions.  
 
Global Climate Change  
 
Cummins is a member of the Business Round Table Climate RESOLVE ( Responsible 
Environmental Steps, Opportunities to Lead by Voluntary Efforts), whose members have 
                                                 
1 Greene, David L., Duleep, K.C., McManus, W., August 20, 2004.   
  25 committed to reduce or offset greenhouse gas emissions.  The Climate RESOLVE initiative 
will give the Company another avenue to partner with the government to find practical, cost -
effective ways to manage greenhouse gas emissions.  
 
Counsel in Developing Products and Meeting Standards  
 
In developing products to meet various standards, as well as the demands of its customers, 
Cummins seeks advice and counsel from  its Science and Technology Council and the 
Technology and Environment Committee of its Board of Directors.  
 
Cummins Science and Technology Council, formed in 1993, has given the Company access 
to some of the country’s leading scientific thinkers and polic ymakers from the worlds of 
academia, industry and government.  
 
The Cummins Science and Technology Council members regularly discuss the future of the 
internal combustion engine and the use of alternative power sources.  As a result, Cummins 
already has pu rsued alternative energy options, including clean natural gas bus engines and 
power generation units that harness waste gases such as methane available in landfills.  
  
 
The Science and Technology Committee members are:   
 
Dr. John M. Deutch (Chairman) – Institute Professor at Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, former Provost and Dean of Science at MIT, CIA Director and Assistant 
Secretary DOE.  
 
Dr. Harold Brown, Counselor – Center  for Strategic and International Studies, 
retired Cummins Director, former  Secretary of Defense and President of CalTech.  
 
Dr. George M. Whitesides -- Mallinckrodt Professor of Chemistry at Harvard 
University.  
 
Dr. Michael Oppenheimer -- Albert G. Milbank Professor of Geosciences and 
International Affairs at Princeton University  and Director of the Program in Science, 
Technology and Environmental Policy at the Woodrow Wilson School.  
 
Dr. Ernest Moniz -- Professor of Physics at the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology.  
 
Dr. Anita K. Jones -- Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engin eering and Applied 
Science University of Virginia and Vice Chair of the National Science Foundation.  
 
Dr. Gerry L. Wilson  --  Professor of Electrical Engineering and Mechanical 
Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, formerly Dean of Engineeri ng at 
MIT. 
 
The Technology and Environment Committee of the Cummins Board of Directors advises 
the management and the technical leadership of Cummins regarding:  
 
 Technology strategy and planning   
  26  Significant research and technology projects and tools  
 Major new product programs  
 Environmental policy and strategy within the public arena as well as an internal 
action plan  
 
Its membership includes the following Directors: John M. Deutch, Chair, Alexis M. Herman, 
Georgia R. Nelson, William I. Miller, William D. Ru ckelshaus and Carl Ware.  
 
The committee also encourages collaboration between Cummins and the external technical 
and environmental community. It reviews the technology plans of the Company.  
 
 
Harnessing Waste Landfill Gases  
 
Cummins Power Generation has in troduced a new low -heat generator that is specifically 
designed to run on the diluted methane gas mixture produced by natural decay in landfills, 
sewage digesters or methane emitted from coal seams.  The new generator runs at 1570 
kW (operating at 50 Hz) o r 1750 kW (operating at 50 and 60 Hz). In North America, that is 
enough electricity to continuously power approximately 350 houses.  
 
Since methane gas released to the atmosphere has about 20 times the greenhouse effect of 
carbon dioxide, burning methane in  a generator set can reduce its environmental impact by 
a factor of about 20.  
 
The new low -Btu generator runs at a landfill site in Shrewsbury, England, a waste water 
digester site in the Canary Islands, as well as at the Viridor Waste Management landfill near 
Edinburgh, Scotland.  
 
At the Viridor landfill, Cummins Power Generation is developing a 3.5 MW power plant 
(enough to continuously power 700 houses) using two low -Btu generator sets running on 
methane from the landfill.  The electricity produced at th e site runs a nearby cement works.  
An additional pair of low -Btu generators will be installed during the next two years to take 
advantage of the site’s estimated 20 -year supply of methane.  
 
Pursuing Pig Power  
 
Cummins Western Canada provided the Cudworth bio-gas cogeneration project with four 
30-kW Cummins Power Generation bio -gas, micro -turbine generators.  The Cudworth 
project is a "green power" effort that converts hog manure into a low -grade methane fuel 
that is converted into heat and electrical power . The methane gas is produced by an 
anaerobic digester designed and installed by Clear Green Environmental of Saskatoon, 
Canada. The digester and cogeneration power plant produces enough electricity to power 
30 to 40 homes, as well as provides the followin g benefits:  
 
 Eliminates the potential of ground water contamination by manure waste 
management  
 Provides an odor -free hog barn  
 Generates free heat and power  
 Receives greenhouse gas credits for CO 2 reduction   
  27  Produces sellable fertilizer and organically f riendly compost during the complete 
digestion process  
A First for the Antifreeze Industry  
Fleetguard in January 2004 announced that had become the first coolant/chemical supplier 
in the industry to offer recycled coolant as part of its heavy -duty antifreez e product line. 
Fleetguard has entered into a collaborative agreement with EET Corp. , an antifreeze 
recycler headquartered in Harriman, Tenn., to supply the high quality recycled product.  
Used antifreeze contains a va riety of components, some benign and some detrimental to the 
environment, such as water, glycol, soluble salts, oil, dye, metal and trace hydrocarbons. 
When contaminated with lead and benzene from vehicle engines, used antifreeze poses a 
danger to the envi ronment unless it is safely recycled.  
Fleetguard and EET are working together to produce a recycled product that meets the 
quality standard required by our customers and in the process reduces the amount of 
harmful materials in the environment.  
The Centine l Oil System  
 
The Cummins Centinel Advanced Engine Oil Management System allows engines to go 
525,000 miles between oil changes and 100,000 miles before changing the filter.  
This innovative system removes a small amount of used oil and sends it to the fue l tank. The 
used oil is then blended with the fuel and burned during normal combustion.  
 
Simultaneously, Centinel adds the same amount of new oil into the engine from a make -up 
tank. The result is a better -protected engine that runs more smoothly with les s time and 
money spent on oil system maintenance. This system reduces the volume of oil waste.  
A Cummins ISX Engine with Centinel would drain only 12 gallons of oil at the 525,000 mark 
in its life.  
 
  
  28  
________________ Performance Indicators: Facilities  
 
Environmental Policy  
 
Cummins strives to exercise global citizenship by making environmental stewardship and 
long-term sustainability a priority in our daily operations. Consistent with this philosophy, 
Cummins formally implemented a Corporate Safety and En vironmental Policy in November 
of 2001.   
 
 Cummins is committed to fostering a cleaner, healthier, and safer environment in 
every community in which our people live and work. All our facilities will employ the 
Cummins Safety and Environmental Management S ystems, which are designed to 
protect our personnel and the environment, to preserve natural resources, and to 
prevent harm to local communities.  Our approach in this endeavor is multi -faceted.  
We will systemically and aggressively assess operations that  have the potential to 
harm individuals or impact the environment.  We will also set substantial and 
measurable objectives in managing safety and the environment.  Finally, we will 
periodically review our progress against our objectives.  Sustainable impro vement is 
an essential element of both systems and is aimed at contributing positively to 
personal safety, environmental well being and conservation of natural resources.   
 
Cummins will continue to implement management programs to ensure that our 
products , service and activities always comply with local laws and Company 
standards established to protect health, safety and the environment.  We are 
committed to minimizing potentially harmful effects resulting from our operations and 
to implementing improvemen ts associated with the prevention of pollution, injury and 
illness.  
 
This Health Safety and Environmental Policy will be applied throughout Cummins via 
a set of documented companywide and local policies and procedures.  It will be 
communicated to all emplo yees at least annually.  Upon request, the policy will be 
made available to the public.  
 
Safety and Environmental Council  
 
In 2003, Cummins formed a Safety and Environmental Council to better align these 
important priorities with the Company’s Business Un it structure. The council includes the 
manufacturing, safety and environmental leaders from across the Company’s four business 
units and from the corporate staff.  
 
The Council, with guidance from the Cummins Policy Committee, meets quarterly and is 
respons ible for building a best -in-class safety and environmental organization across 
Cummins worldwide entities. The group develops, reviews and recommends improvement 
initiatives at all levels of the organization, with the goal of minimizing the global impact o f the 
Company’s operations.   
  
  29 Among these initiatives are a focus on facility registration to the ISO 14001 standard and 
implementation of the elements of Cummins existing health, safety and environmental 
management systems (HSEMS). The Council also leads  the sustainability effort, has 
established the facilities that will report environmental measures and has approved 
additional reporting criteria in support of the effort.    
 
ISO 14001 Registrations  
 
Cummins is committed to using ISO 14001 as a means to e ffective environmental 
management as the Company strives to become a worldwide leader among manufacturers 
in protecting the environment.  
 
Corporate level procedures were developed and incorporated within the Cummins HSEMS 
to serve as a framework for the or ganization’s conformance to the ISO 14001 standard. A 
key component of the HSEMS framework is a worldwide “enterprise” approach to ISO 14001 
registration.  This allows Cummins to identify superior environmental management programs 
at individual sites and i mplement those programs throughout Cummins worldwide.  
 
By the end of 2004, Cummins had 29 manufacturing facilities and the corporate entity 
registered to the ISO 14001 standard.  Ten of those entities are registered within the 
worldwide Cummins Enterprise registration.  
 
In 2005, Cummins sites in the United Kingdom, Canada and Mexico will be added to the 
group of ISO 14001 registered facilities.   
 
 
Environmental Management System Registration to ISO 14001  
    
Site Reg. 
Year  Location  Business Unit  
Davent ry Engine Plant  2001  UK EBU 
Fleetguard – Quimper  2001  France  FBU 
Holset – Huddersfield  2001  UK PGBU  
Darlington Engine Plant  2002  UK EBU 
Nelson – Mineral Point  2001  USA FBU 
Cummsa SLP  2002  Mexico  IDBU  
Nelson – Viroqua  2002  USA FBU 
Nelson – Arcadia  2002 USA FBU 
Nelson – Wautoma  2002  USA FBU 
Cummins Industrial Center/Cummins 
Komatsu Engine Co.  2002  USA EBU 
Newage – Stamford  2002  UK PGBU  
Holset – Charleston  2002  USA PGBU  
Nelson – Neilsville West  2002  USA FBU 
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Co. 
Ltd/Cummins Xiangfan Machinery Co. 
Ltd 2002  China  IDBU  
Cummins Original Equipment Reman  2003  Canada  EBU  
  30 Tata Cummins Limited  2003  India  IDBU  
 Fuel Systems Plant/General Office  2003  USA EBU 
Cummins Brazil Ltd.  2003  Brazil  EBU 
Midrange Engine Plant  2003  USA EBU 
Fleetguard – Lake Mills  2003  USA FBU 
Nelson – Black River Falls  2003  USA FBU 
Cummins Corporate Enterprise 
Environmental Management System  2003  Worldwide  Corp  
Nelson – Bloomer  2003  USA FBU 
Nelson – East 2003  USA FBU 
Tata Holset  2004  India  PGBU  
Kuss  2004 USA FBU 
Wuxi – Holset  2004  China  PGBU  
Consolidated Diesel Company  2004  USA EBU 
Jamestown Engine Plant  2004  USA EBU 
Cummins Power Gen – Fridley  2004  USA PGBU  
Diesel ReCon Co. – Juárez/El Paso  2004  USA EBU 
Sites listed in blue represent enterprise 
registrations     
 
 
Corporate Environmental Objectives and Targets  
 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate Strategy  
 
One element of Cummins environmental data gathering and reporting is the evaluation of 
facility emissions specific to addressing concerns of gl obal warming.  Our facility 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are calculated directly from utilities and fuel use 
information provided by sites participating in the sustainability reporting.  
 
A corporate objective and associated targets were developed related  to the Company’s 
GHG emissions at our manufacturing facilities. These targets represent Cummins initial 
steps toward the development of a formal climate strategy.  As an active participant in the 
Business Roundtable Climate RESOLVE program, Cummins acknow ledges the role it must 
play in controlling its own emissions.  The Company’s initial targets address the need to 
establish a GHG baseline footprint as the basis for measuring ongoing emissions 
reductions.  
 
The Company’s objective is to GHG emissions from  its manufacturing operations worldwide. 
To meet this objective, the Company has set targets, including participation in the Business 
Roundtable Climate RESOLVE program; establishing base year/baseline emissions 
(defining organizational and operational bou ndaries); implementing a process to facilitate 
the accumulation and reporting of relevant GHG data and establishing a formal GHG 
reduction goal.  
 
Reporting Scope  
  
  31 Cummins has been collecting environmental performance data selectively from its 
manufacturing  facilities since 1999.   To improve the data associated with monitoring its  
environmental performance, Cummins more than doubled the number of reporting facilities 
to 38 in 2003, compared to the 2001 -2002 timeframe covered in Cummins first Sustainability  
Report.  
 
Expansion of the reporting effort encompasses each of the Cummins manufacturing 
divisions worldwide, and now includes facilities in Brazil, India, France, the U.K., Mexico and 
the United States.   
 
Cummins tracks a wide range of facility data to measure the potential environmental impacts 
of its operations. The data compiled for this report represent a substantial majority of 
Cummins larger manufacturing facilities, including all of the Company’s engine assembly 
plants, the corporate office buildi ng and the larger non -manufacturing facilities.  
 
Because of the substantial increase in the number of reporting sites, drawing meaningful 
company -wide comparisons against the 2001 -2002 data is difficult. As a result, data from 
the previous reporting years are not included in this report. Still, individual sites, business 
units and the corporate entity continue to use earlier data as a baseline for determining 
progress.  
 
A general description of the operations by business unit, and their critical environmen tal 
activities is provided for background.  
 
Cummins Engine Business  
 
Within the Cummins Engine Business (EBU) manufacturing facilities employees conduct 
product design, research and development, engine manufacturing and engine and 
component reconditioning.   Engine assembly facilities perform engine block and component 
machining, assembly, painting, alkaline bath parts washing and engine performance testing.  
Product design and engine testing are the primary operations in the research and 
development technic al centers where production processes are limited.  
 
Engine testing is conducted in stationary test stands or cells, where product performance 
information is measured as engines run at various duty cycles.  Test cells also are used for 
certification testing  to ensure products meet emissions requirements. Rebuild/reconditioning 
facilities perform engine tear -down and reassembly, using alkaline parts washing processes.  
 
Cummins Filtration Business (Fleetguard)  
 
Cummins Filtration and Other Business Unit (FBU)  facility operations primarily involve 
filtration and exhaust product design, research and development, filter and exhaust 
component assembly and product distribution and warehousing.  Filter and exhaust 
component assembly facilities perform metal stamping  and component machining, welding, 
product assembly, painting and performance testing.   
 
Cummins Power Generation Business  
 
Cummins Power Generation Business (CPG) facility operations primarily involve product 
design, research and development, alternator manufacturing, assembly of generator sets,  
  32 switchgear and controls and product testing.  Alternator manufacturing facilities perform 
component machining, lamination stamping, rotor and stator winding, resin impregnation 
and alternator assembly.  Assembly f acilities perform housing fabrication, genset assembly, 
switchgear and controls assembly, painting, alkaline bath parts washing and genset 
performance testing.  Product design and performance testing are conducted in the 
research and development technical centers.  Genset testing is conducted in stationary test 
stands/cells, where product performance information is measured while gensets are run at 
various duty cycles.  Test cells also are used for certification testing to ensure products meet 
emissions req uirements.  
 
Waste Streams  
 
The primary waste streams generated at Cummins manufacturing facilities include waste 
paint and associated materials, paint filters, sludges and filter cake, machine coolant and 
used oil and resins.  Metals are salvaged for off -site recycling, as are used oils.  Other waste 
streams include filter media and resins.  At most facilities, machine coolant is recycled until 
ineffective and ultimately added to the wastewater stream for pretreatment prior to discharge 
to public treatment works.  
 
Environmental Performance Measures  
 
Materials Other than Water  
 
Data reported by our facilities quantifies specific categories of process materials used most 
commonly in Cummins manufacturing processes. Fuels data represent a comprehensive 
total f rom all reporting facilities. Other process material totals are incomplete .  
 
Diesel Fuel – 9,421,970 gallons  
Natural Gas – 1,153,178,133 cubic feet  
Propane – 1,891,873 cubic feet  
Oil 1,110,160 gallons  
Paint – 233,427 gallons  
Coolant – 433,450 gallons  
Solvent/thinner – 92,166 gallons  
Acids – 80,900 gallons  
Caustics – 230,730 gallons  
 
Direct and Indirect Energy Use  
 
Cummins manufacturing operations use electricity, natural gas, diesel and propane as the 
primary sources of energy.  The energy data provided below represent electricity used at the 
Company’s facilities to generate power for manufacturing operations, power produced and 
sold to the regional grid and that used for facility heating and cooling purposes.  Emissions 
calculations on the basis of elect rical energy account for its ultimate source, so although the 
total KwH are reflected in this data, category power derived from hydroelectric and/or 
nuclear sources are not applied to emissions factors.  
 
Direct:  (totals in kwh and gigajoules)  
Fuel Oil: 111 ,960,811 kwh / 403,059 GJ  
Natural Gas: 344,800,262 kwh / 1,273,801 GJ   
  33 Propane: 523,333 kwh / 1,884 GJ  
Electricity: 68,439 kwh / 246 GJ  
 
 
 
Indirect:  
Electricity:  
572,855,657 kwh / 2,067,401 GJ  
 
Total Water Use  
1,048,097,963 gallons / 3,967,051 cubic meters  
 
The water use data were derived from annual totals for each of the reporting facilities and 
includes water used for industrial and consumptive purposes.  
 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
Totals are reported in metric tons.  
 
 
Direct      CO 2    
 Fuel Oil    28,48 5    
 Diesel     67,625     
Natural Gas    63,080     
 Propane         362    
 
Indirect     CO 2 
 Electricity    489,749  
 
  
CO 2 totals were derived using World Resources Institute GHG Emissions Protocols and/or 
EPA AP -42 Compilation of Air Pollutant Emissions Fact ors. 
 
Ozone Depleting Substances  
 
In May 1995, Cummins implemented a policy that stationary equipment using 
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) would no longer be purchased by Cummins.  Equipment 
already in place would be considered for conversion or replacement de pending on its age 
and repair costs.   
 
As a result of this policy, Cummins has replaced more than 50 percent of its equipment 
containing ozone -depleting substances.  
 
Significant Air Emissions  
 
Direct emissions to air from facility operations; all data i s in metric tons.  
 
NOx – 1,998  
CO – 443  
PM – 135 
CO 2 – 159,207   
  34 VOCs – 726  
 
Data for NOx, CO, PM and CO 2 are based on diesel fuel used in product testing applications 
and No. 2 fuel oil, propane and natural gas used in boilers and furnaces, and were deriv ed 
using EPA AP -42 Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors, 1996. It should be noted 
that AP -42 emissions conversions used for large diesel engines are based on obsolete 
technology. Although we have not used conversion factors developed from our own 
emission testing, it is certain that the data presented here based on AP -42 is overstated. 
VOC totals are based on throughput and VOC content of the significant sources at each 
reporting site; however, total emissions for this parameter are not considered to be 
comprehensive.  
 
Total Amount of Waste by Type  
 
Cummins has active recycling programs. Proceeds from recycling efforts at some locations 
are used to fund employee enrichment programs or are donated to charitable causes within 
the local community.   
 
Wastes disposed are closely tracked at the facility level to meet environmental regulatory 
requirements, to quantify materials for which monetary returns are available on a weight or 
volumetric basis and for environmental performance measures.  Waste and r ecycled 
material quantities are presented in aggregate.  Data have been rounded to the nearest 
whole number.  Categories are defined and materials quantified as follows:  
 
Landfilled Industrial Waste:  Includes industrial wastes disposed in landfills, such as 
sludges, filter cake, grinding swarf (grit and other solid impurities that build up in machine 
coolant) and related material that is concentrated and accumulated from specific 
manufacturing processes, but is not specially regulated due to toxicity.   
 
3,748,352 pounds / 1,704 metric tons  
 
General Refuse: These wastes are not comprehensively quantified here because of a lack 
of availability of weight -based measures across the organization.  
 
17,631,809 pounds / 8,014 metric tons  
 
Recycled Metals: Metals de rived predominantly from machining and salvage operations.  
 
Iron and Steel: 168,429,671 pounds / 76,559 metric tons  
Aluminum: 1,608, 526 pounds / 731 metric tons  
Copper, Brass and Other: 698,900 pounds / 318 metric tons  
 
Other Recycled Materials: These in clude shop and office materials reprocessed for re -use 
outside the facility. Data for recycled materials are understated because at several locations 
volumes and load weights are unavailable, unreliable or represent aggregate vs. individual 
material totals .  
 
Cardboard: 10,892,085 pounds /4,951 metric tons  
Paper: 965,729 pounds /439 metric tons  
Wood: 13,863,495 pounds / 6,302 metric tons   
  35 Plastic: 398,021 pounds / 181 metric tons  
 
Re-used Liquid Wastes:   These represent estimated quantities of industrial pro cess wastes 
reclaimed for re -use or otherwise re -used based on Btu content as feedstock in cement kilns 
or blended fuels.  These include oil, coolants, solvents and thinners and residual fluids 
primarily from painting processes, including selected wastes t hat are regulated as 
hazardous as defined within the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  
 
1,559,622 gallons / 5,903 cubic meters  
 
Significant Discharges to Water: The discharges listed below represent an estimated 
quantity of industrial process an d sanitary wastewater and do not include water loss from 
heating and air -conditioning systems.  
 
757,016,449 gallons / 2,865,307 cubic meters  
 
Significant Spills of Chemicals, Oils, and Fuels  
 
Cummins has not experienced a significant spill originating from  any of its facilities within the 
2003 sustainability reporting timeframe.   
 
Incidents and Fines for Non -compliance  
 
Fleetguard  – Arcadia, Wisconsin     
The Arcadia facility was issued a Notice of Noncompliance (NON) by the Wisconsin 
Department of Natur al Resources (WDNR) on June 10, 2003, arising from the self -
disclosure of discoveries made during an internal audit of the facility. The situation involved 
operation of an air emissions source outside the parameters outlined in the air discharge 
permit. A modification to the permit had been previously sought with the state, but the matter 
had not yet been addressed by the authorities at the time of the audit. As a result, an 
additional permit modification was submitted and approved by the state.   Once the permit 
was approved, the WDNR closed the NON without assessing a monetary penalty.  
 
Fleetguard, Inc. – Black River Falls, Wisconsin      
The Black River Falls facility was issued a NON by the WDNR on July 31, 2003, based on 
the results of a site inspection  by a waste management specialist from the WDNR.  During 
the inspection, several RCRA generator standards were cited by the authorities as non -
compliant.  The situation was corrected immediately and no fines were levied.   As a result 
of the incident, faci lity personnel were re -trained on the appropriate waste management 
procedures and the refresher training schedule was made more aggressive.   
 
Jamestown Engine Plant - Lakewood, New York  
On July 1, 2003 the U.S. EPA cited Cummins for the late reporting of  the 2001 Toxic 
Release Inventory and requested information on JEP activities.  Cummins signed an 
Administrative Agreement and paid a civil penalty of $8,892.  
 
Cummins ReCon facility - Memphis, Tennessee  
Representatives of the Tennessee Department of Envir onment and Conservation conducted 
an inspection of the Memphis ReCon plant in June 2003 to determine compliance with State  
  36 hazardous waste regulations.  The Department noted non -compliance associated with 
waste and waste container management regulations re sulting in a $1,750 penalty. All issues 
were corrected within 90 days.  
 
 
Energy Conservation at Cummins Facilities  
Cummins spends more than 90 percent of its utility (electricity, natural gas, heating oil, water 
and sewage) dollar on electricity and natura l gas. For 2003, Cummins spent approximately 
$41 million on these utility costs, on par with 2002 – despite increased production volumes 
and higher commodity resource prices. The Company used Six Sigma projects to help 
control utility consumption and costs . 
 
Cummins has implemented a number of projects at its facilities in the past three years to 
reduce energy use. Among them:  
 
 Cummins Jamestown Engine Plant at Lakewood, N.Y., in 2003 and 2004 replaced 
400- and 250 -watt metal halide lights with new electron ic ballast T8 fluorescent 
lights. The T8 fluorescent system produced greater energy savings as well as higher 
lighting levels.  In addition to saving energy, the enhanced lighting resulted in a safer 
work environment. The project cost of almost $600,000 wa s 50 percent funded by 
the New York State Energy Development Agency through an energy reduction 
rebate program.  The new system has 2,600 plus new fixtures replacing more than 
2,800 existing metal halide lamps. The new fluorescent lights will result in pro longed 
higher lighting levels, as well as energy reduction of more than 3.6 million khw/yr and 
cost savings of $220,000 per year.   
 
 The Power Generation America (PGA) facility at Fridley, Minn., replaced an aging 
compressed air system with a new energy ef ficient system.  This included replacing 
two air compressors, adding 3,000 gallons of additional compressed air storage, 
installing an electronic control valve to stabilize the plant air pressure and re -piping 
parts of the plant. PGA also worked with the l ocal electric utility and a motor 
manufacturer to complete a plant -wide motor survey and replaced motors with a two -
year or less payback, including a utility rebate and installation costs.  
 
 Automation on the block line was improved to allow the power to be  shut down 
between shifts at the Jamestown Engine Plant. Similarly, a computer -based lighting 
control system was used to shut off lights in the Columbus, Ind. -based Fuel Systems 
Plant in certain areas during non -production periods. A manual program to cons erve 
electricity in office areas during unoccupied times also was instituted.  
 
 The Daventry Engine Plant at Daventry, England, installed new accumulators on the 
block line to store hydraulic energy. At the same time, it lowered air pressure set points 
to reduce compressed air energy consumption.  
 
 Cummins India Ltd. at Pune, India, instituted an aggressive energy efficiency program 
that included replacing older compressed air systems with a high efficiency system, 
including controls, compressor, piping, drye rs and receivers.  
 
 Cummins India Ltd. also had an aggressive energy efficiency program in 2004 that 
resulted in the following energy -saving steps being taken:   
  37  
o Installation of Polycarbonate Sheets on roofs for natural light that allowed 
artificial lighting  to be switched off during the day  
o Modifications in the cleaning booth  
o Replacement of aluminum fan blades with FRP blades  
o Installation of energy saving equipment on cooling towers  
o Optimization of auxiliary power house frequency  
o Improvements in induction ha rdening machine water cooling system  
o Reduction in transformer losses  
 
 
 At the Cummins Technical Center in Columbus, Ind., computer -monitored sensors and 
controls and an auto -paging system for key test cell equipment were installed to alert 
technicians prio r to equipment failure system shutdowns. That effort improved test cell 
uptime and eliminated test repetition.  
 
 Cummins Industrial Center at Seymour, Ind., reduced the amount of natural gas 
required in the plant by lowering the engine wash temperature prio r to engine painting. 
Paint adhesion was not affected.  
 
 Consolidated Diesel Co. at Rocky Mount, N.C., installed new Pulse Start Ballasts and 
high efficiency HID lamps in 850 light fixtures on the machining side of the facility. 
Lamp fixture glass reflector s were cleaned to improve light levels and light 
disbursement. All compressors were linked using trunk cabling and a software 
package was installed to manage the overall plant compressed air function (load 
sharing).  
 
Other energy projects completed in 2003  involving Cummins Power Generation and engine 
assembly plants saved in aggregate more than $1 million and reduced energy consumption 
by 7.88 gigawatt hours (GWH) on an annual basis.  These energy reductions equate to an 
estimated emissions reduction of 15 .96 million pounds (7,253 metric tons) of CO 2.    
 
 
Maximizing Energy Efficiency  
 
Cummins Power Generation in Fridley, Minn., installed two of its own power generation units 
to demonstrate how its micro -turbine gensets could harness waste manufacturing ene rgy 
and reduce energy costs, while also meeting ISO 14001 and Climate RESOLVE 
greenhouse gas reduction objectives.   
 
Previously, the Fridley facility burned natural gas to heat an oven as part of the generator 
set manufacturing process.  With the installa tion of the micro -turbine genset system, natural 
gas now powers the gensets. Hot exhaust from the clean -burning system heats the oven 
while the microturbines generate electricity. This electricity is put back into the plant’s power 
grid and is used to help  operate parts of the facility’s manufacturing processes.  
 
This combined heat and power project has resulted in maximizing energy efficiency, 
minimizing environmental impact and reducing manufacturing costs.  This power generation 
system:  
  
  38  
 Provides 1,000 ,000 kW/yr of formerly purchased electricity  
 Prevents 1000 tons CO 2/yr from being emitted into the atmosphere  
 Reduces facility greenhouse gases by 3 percent (equivalent to 80,000 gal diesel fuel 
reduction)  
 Saves $20,000/yr savings in gas and electric costs  
 
Energy and Waste Reductions at Cummins Industrial Center  
 
Cummins recognizes that environmental improvements make sound business sense.  
 
At Cummins Industrial Center, a manufacturing facility located in Seymour, Ind., multiple ISO 
14001 improvement initi atives were implemented in 2003.  These programs had a 
substantial positive impact on the environment and resulted in significant cost savings to the 
Company.   
 
In the past, CIC ran boilers all year to heat air for engine test operations.  By adding a 
thermostat controlled air heater to the air line, and installing high turn -down controls, 
Cummins was able to shut off the boilers during the summer months and reduce the 
temperature range in which they fire.  This reduced natural gas consumption by 40 percen t 
at an annual savings of $240,000.   
 
In addition, CIC initiated multiple programs driven by ISO 14001 improvement initiatives to 
minimize water use and waste production.  Facility improvements allowed for the effective 
removal of solids at the site, allo wing it to become self -sufficient in wastewater treatment. In 
addition, system improvements have allowed the re -routing of wastewater back into the 
process – saving 4.6 million gallons of water a year - instead of sending wastewater to the 
city treatment f acility.  
 
The facility also improved its oil separation capabilities.  The company will save $45,000 
annually from these new processes.  Finally, onsite management of cooling tower process 
water resulted in an additional cost savings of $96,000.   
 
Going B eyond Waste Disposal Regulations  
  
In 2003, the Cummins MidRange Engine Plant (CMEP) in Columbus, Ind., changed from 
disposable to reusable aerosol cans on the machining line.  These reusable cans use 
compressed plant air as the propellant.  In addition to  saving landfill space, this new process 
removes the chemical propellants that are commonly found in commercial spray cleaners.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  39  
 
 
Cummins Mexico Focuses on Environment  
 
A Six Sigma project led to the elimination of boilers powered by diesel fu el to heat water and 
produce steam for the component washing machines.  Natural gas is now piped directly to 
the cleaning operations to heat the water and solvents.  This has greatly reduced the NOx 
and particulates emitted into the atmosphere.  
 
 A second  project reduced the consumption of industrial rags, introduced the use of lighter 
and more absorbent cloths and assured that the dirty rags were recycled as fuel in 
government -certified thermal plants, rather than being sent to a landfill.  
 
Cummins Mexico  also has played an active role in the Mexican Fund for the Conservation of 
Nature and EARTH University in Costa Rica.  EARTH is the acronym in Spanish for 
"Agricultural College for the Humid Tropics" and has 400 students from 19 Latin American 
countries.  The university promotes ethical values, sustainable development, 
entrepreneurship and social responsibility.   
 
Hazardous Waste Reductions in Cummins U.S. Operations  
 
Through implementation of ISO 14001 and consistent with the Company’s commitment to 
the continual improvement of environmental performance, over the last two years five of 
Cummins manufacturing facilities have substantially reduced the volume of wastes 
regulated as hazardous as defined by the EPA.  
 
In each case, these reductions in waste have  allowed these facilities to downgrade their 
hazardous waste generator status. These noteworthy improvements in environmental 
performance were the direct result of the Company’s innovative approach to product design 
and product substitution, as well as inc reased operational efficiencies and the establishment 
of comprehensive waste management programs.  
  
  40 _______________________________________ Safety  
 
In 2003, Cummins formed a Safety and Environmental Council, comprising functional 
excellence, safety and env ironmental leaders from across the Company’s four business 
units, in addition to Cummins corporate safety and environmental affairs managers and the 
Company’s Vice President – General Counsel.  
 
The council, which meets quarterly, recommends and implements safety and environmental 
policies and strategic initiatives by reviewing best practices and Six Sigma projects in these 
areas.  
 
The Company’s safety measures include both goals and targets.  For all Cummins facilities 
worldwide, the Company measures itself  against the U.S. OSHA standard.  In addition, it 
measures and scores manufacturing facilities against a set of criteria established under the 
Cummins Operating System (called the CPE score).   
 
These criteria look at how well an organization is implementi ng the Cummins safety system, 
which is based on 82 statements, 14 programs and the Company’s 10 Cummins Operating 
System practices. Each statement is evaluated on a 1 to 10 scale and the scores are totaled 
and placed into the following categories:  
 
 50 poin ts – Level 1  
 50-69 points – Level 2  
 70-84 points – Level 3  
 85-95 points – Excellence level  
 
The corporate goal is zero safety incidents and a CPE score of 95.  Targets for 2004 
include:  
 
Incidence Rate  -- 2.0 or a 50 percent improvement over 2003 performan ce. 
Severity Rate   -- 8.0 or a 50 percent improvement over 2003 performance.  
CPE/COS Score   -- Level 3 with a minimum score of 70 points.   
 
The Incidence Rate is calculated by the number of OSHA recordable injuries times 200,000 
divided by the number of ex posure hours.  The Severity Rate is calculated by the number of 
lost work days times 200,000 divided by the number of exposure hours.   
 
The following table shows how Cummins safety performance compares to others in the 
Company’s sector.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  41  
 Safet y Performance/Industry Comparison  
Cummins Inc.  
 
 
As part of a control plan to evaluate the system, in 2004 the Company implemented an 
aggressive audit schedule and will use these results to more formally recognize facilities 
for safety excellence. This pr ocess includes the following three steps:  
 Pre- Audit -- Performed to identify the gap between current practices and the 
system required based on the CPE/COS criteria  
 Closing the Gap -- A period of time given to the facility/organization to make 
improvement s. 
 Formal Audit -- A formal audit is conducted with the participation of external 
auditors, trained in Cummins safety reporting processes, to verify 
conformance to safety criteria.  
 
To date, 19 audits have been conducted, four lead auditors have been train ed and 12 co -
auditors have been developed.  
 
 
 
External Safety Recognition  
 
Fleetguard – Cookeville, Tennessee  
The Fleetguard  facility in Cookeville received the Commissioner’s Award of Excellence  from 
the Tennessee Department of Labor and Workforce Develop ment during an on -site 
ceremony in October 2004. The award goes to employers and their employees who together 
have achieved the required hours worked without experiencing a lost workday due to a 
safety issue and companies that have maintained total injury and illness incident rates at 
least 10 percent below the national average for three consecutive years.  Each year, only a 
handful of facilities in Tennessee meet the criteria for this award . 
 
Cummins 2004 Safety and Environmental Conference  
Company represe ntatives with Health, Safety and Environmental management 
responsibilities gathered in Columbus, Ind., in September 2004 for a three -day conference 
to share best practices and network.  
 
Sessions focused on HSE best practices, strategies and technical and regulatory 
information.  The event was attended by about 100 people, representing every division of 
the Company and facilities in10 different countries.   
  
  42 ____________________________ Social Performance  
 
During its 85 -year history, Cummins has grown into  a Fortune 500 Company with operations 
located around the world.  
 
Yet, corporate social responsibility remains a fundamental part of the way the Company 
operates in every community. A Corporate Social Responsibility Department sets strategic 
direction and  promotes programs, but the real corporate social responsibility results from the 
daily actions of Cummins employees.  
 
Examples of the Company’s philosophy of making people’s lives better by unleashing the 
power of Cummins include the following:  
 
 In Brazil , elementary school -age children who once had few educational 
opportunities now have a school to call home thanks to a partnership between 
Cummins and the Sao Paulo state government.  
 
 Also in Brazil, the Clessie Cummins clinic – named for the Company’s fo under – has 
provided needed medical care for residents for more than a decade.  Cummins was 
the primary driver in getting the projects off the ground and continues to support 
staff, maintain the facilities and fund other activities.  
 
 Eight years ago, Cummi ns wholly -owned subsidiary in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, 
established its own charitable foundation with seed money from the Cummins 
Foundation. Today, more than 70 volunteers help manage a half -dozen community 
projects, including a carpentry shop where most of the work is performed by people 
who are blind or otherwise physically challenged.  
 
 In 2000, when the Bartholomew County School Corp. in Cummins hometown of 
Columbus, Ind., was looking for ways to fund construction of a new middle school, 
the Company con tributed nearly $1.3 million to the effort.  
 
 In April 2004, Cummins helped fund a celebration of the 50th anniversary of the 
landmark Supreme Court decision Brown v. Board of Education that paved the way 
for desegregation of the U.S. public school system. The Company was a major 
sponsor of events that included visits and speaking appearances by Linda Brown 
Thompson and Cheryl Brown Henderson, daughters of the lead plaintiff in the case.  
 
Such efforts are one of the reasons why Cummins earned the No. 2 posi tion in 2003 on  
Business Ethics  magazine’s list of “Best Corporate Citizens” and is one of a handful of 
companies to be named to the list each of the last five years.  
 
Corporate social responsibility at Cummins has three primary areas of focus: community  
involvement, corporate donations and the Cummins Foundation, which celebrated its 50th 
anniversary in 2004, making it one of the oldest charitable foundations of its kind.  
  
  43 Community Involvement Teams  
 
These teams  are employee -driven committees that repre sent the diversity of the workforce 
and all levels of management.  
 
Each team establishes a work plan, a budget and a focus area for community service. Every 
two years, these teams are audited against a set of Functional Excellence criteria. The audit 
proce ss ensures that corporate responsibility remains an important business objective 
across all business units, provides a measurement and recognition process and identifies 
areas for development over the next two -year cycle.  
 
The CITs are charged with:  
 
• Dev eloping an annual community involvement plan  
• Developing a budget to support activities  
• Conducting employee giving campaigns  
• Organizing volunteer activities  
• Responding to community requests for donations  
• Developing proposals for the Cummins Founda tion 
• Completing bi -annual Functional Excellence Audits  
 
Corporate Donations  
 
Donations  provide a means for Cummins to participate in community events that are more 
appropriately funded by the Company than the Foundation. These activities include 
membersh ips, sponsorships, dinners or other events where the Company receives a benefit 
in advertising or other forms of recognition. Cummins donated nearly $700,000 directly to 
charitable causes around the world in 2003 – in addition to $2 million in funding the 
Company provided to the Cummins Foundation.  
 
The Cummins Foundation  
 
The Cummins Foundation is one of the oldest charitable foundations of its kind in the United 
States.  
 
The Foundation, which is supported solely by investment from Cummins Inc., has grown  
from its roots as a vehicle to help improve Cummins “hometown” of Columbus to become a 
central part of Cummins efforts to be a socially responsible corporation worldwide. The 
Foundation’s President also serves as Cummins Executive Director of Corporate So cial 
Responsibility (CSR), providing leadership and coordination to all the Company’s CSR work.   
 
In addition to the Cummins Foundation, which primarily funds projects in the United States, 
Company -funded foundations have been formed in Mexico and India o ver the last decade.  
 
The mission of the Cummins Foundation is to make people’s lives better by:  
 Serving and improving the communities in which Cummins does business  
 Providing the tools and means for people living on the edge of society to overcome 
the bar riers they face.  
  
  44 To accomplish that mission, Cummins has chosen to focus its resources on projects that 
allow it to make a measurable difference in the community, with an emphasis on education, 
health, economic opportunity and the environment.  
 
In 2003, the Cummins Foundation provided 100 grants worth more than $1.1 million to 
charitable organizations in the United States.  That money is in addition to direct corporate 
grants and considerable employee and Company donations to the United Way.  
 
For all its success, the Foundation’s role is expected to strengthen in the years to come – 
driven by the strong support of the Cummins executive team.  
 
In kicking off the Company’s first Corporate Social Responsibility Conference in 2004, 
Cummins CEO Tim Solso challe nged those in attendance to help the Company match “what 
we have done in the past 50 years over the next five years.”  
 
To help accomplish that, the Company has committed to increase its investment in the 
Foundation going forward, with an increased emphasis  being placed on distributing funds as 
widely as possible among Cummins communities.  
 
A sampling of recent projects supported by the Cummins Foundation:  
 
 A family resource center in Rocky Mount, N.C.  
 A program to encourage men to play a greater role in the ir children’s lives in 
Jamestown.  
 Materials and support for multi -lingual classes in Lake Mills, Iowa.  
 A childcare program for homeless children, ages five and younger, in Memphis.  
 An immunization and health fair in Juarez, Mexico.  
 A crisis nursery for abu sed children in Fridley, Minn.  
 Support for the American Cancer Society in Columbus.  
 Support to New York Firefighters 9/11 Disaster Relief Fund.  
 Scholarship support for ABC -Stewart Montessori School in Columbus.  
 Annual support to United Negro College Fund i n Fairfax, Va.  
Donating much -needed funds to important projects is just part of the work done by the 
Foundation. Cummins recognizes that “people power” can be as effective as providing 
grants, and the Foundation plays a leading role in encouraging Cummins employees and 
citizens worldwide to get involved with their communities.  
 
For example:  
 Many Cummins plants set up school supply drives where employees in areas such 
as Columbus, Ind.; Jamestown, N.Y.; Charleston, S.C. and Memphis, Tenn., donate 
essential s upplies to children in surrounding schools.  
 In North America, the Plant Innovation Fund challenges plants to compete for a 
restricted number of grants through a “request for proposal” process. This program 
encourages local leadership to take the initiativ e to survey their community and 
develops awareness in the employees of the problems within their society.  
 The ‘Hispanic Achievers Program’ was set up in April 2004 in Nashville, Tenn. The 
program entails employees of Hispanic descent mentoring and tutoring  the at -risk 
Hispanic youths.   
  45  
 
School on Wheels – Pune, India  
 
In Pune, India, economically disadvantaged children often grow up with little access to 
formal education. In many cases, logistics are the biggest hurdle: Children can’t get to the 
same schoo l at the same time every day because they are living on the streets or their 
parents have jobs that force them to frequently move around the area.  
 
The Cummins India Foundation helped bring the school to the children. Pune’s first “school -
on-wheels,” a cus tom-designed bus/classroom, was launched in 2001 to bring education to 
the most at -risk children in the area. The Cummins India Foundation donated the bus and 
made a multi -year commitment to support the program.  
 
The Cummins India Foundation was founded in  1991 and provides support to community 
development efforts that primarily deal with education, environmental and energy -related 
issues.  
 
The Ashleigh Erin Foundation – South Africa  
 
Cummins has taken an active role in providing technical and engineering e ducation to South 
African high school -age students and young adults through the Ashleigh Erin Foundation, 
which was formed in 2001. While many South African children receive a solid academic 
education, a lack of technical skills training has contributed to  a high unemployment rate in 
the country.  
 
The Foundation is establishing a multi -purpose technical skills training institute that will 
provide students with the opportunity to gain skills employers in the country are seeking. The 
institute is located in Soweto, where no other such school exists and where it is expected to 
draw a diverse student population, including many of the country’s most disadvantaged 
residents.  
 
Watoto de Afrika – Memphis, Tennesee  
 
Memphis -based Watoto de Afrika is a program run by  Donald O’Conner, who is a 
community leader in helping African -American children help themselves.  
 
O’Conner, with the support of the Cummins Foundation, has created an African culture, 
education and dance program for more than 100 children ages 5 -17. In or der to remain in 
the program, the children must maintain a 2.5 grade point average and participants give 
back to the community by presenting a number of dance performances throughout the year.  
One sign of success: Every Watoto de Afrika “graduate” has gon e on to attend college – 
compared to a college matriculation rate of less than 40 percent for African -American 
students nationwide.  
 
 
 
 
  
  46 _____________________________________ Diversity  
 
 
“In the search for character and commitment, we must rid ourselves of  our inherited, even 
cherished, biases and prejudices. “Character, ability and intelligence are not concentrated in 
one sex over the other, nor in persons with certain accents, or in certain races, or in persons 
holding degrees from some universities over others.  
 
“When we indulge ourselves in such irrational prejudices, we damage ourselves most of all 
and ultimately assure ourselves of failure in competition with those more open and less 
biased.”  
– J. Irwin Miller, former Cummins Chairman and CEO.  
 
Mr. Mil ler’s words, spoken more than 20 years ago when he was Chairman of the Cummins 
Executive Committee, ring as true today as ever. At Cummins – which does business in 
more than 130 countries - the message is powerful: Not only is valuing diversity good 
busine ss, it’s also the right thing to do.  
 
From a business perspective, the Company believes that successfully managing diversity 
strengthens relationships with an increasingly diverse customer base. Beyond that, a 
diverse work force – in terms of race, gender,  lifestyle and educational background – 
ensures a variety of perspectives to best address the Company’s business needs. Cummins 
diversity initiatives include the following:  
 
• All employees complete a comprehensive diversity training program designed exclu sively 
for Cummins. Second generation diversity training is a mandatory part of career 
development for leaders.  
 
• The Chairman’s Diversity Council, made up of senior leaders from across the Company, 
sets the course for diversity issues including hiring pr actices, supplier relations, benefits 
matters and training.  
 
• In all, 48 Local Diversity Councils (LDCs) have been created to address diversity issues in 
the communities in which Cummins does business. In addition, the LDCs focus on 
recruiting, retention and cultural differences in the workplace.  
 
• Cummins long -standing commitment to use qualified minority -owned suppliers has yielded 
good results in recent years. In 2003, Cummins spent more than $100 million with small 
business and minority -owned supplier s. 
 
More than 50 businesses attended Cummins Diversity Procurement Conference in 2003, 
where they were given access to purchasing representatives from across the Company. And 
in 2004, Cummins was the title sponsor of a statewide conference in Indiana that brought 
minority -owned businesses together with potential corporate customers.  
 
• Cummins offers health care and other benefits to non -spousal domestic partners. In 
making these benefits available to employee life partners (both same -sex and opposite -sex  
  47 partners), Cummins recognizes that it must provide attractive and flexible programs to all 
employees.  
 
Cummins has received local, state and national recognition for its work in diversity. In 2003, 
for the second time in three years, Cummins was named by Fo rtune magazine as one of the 
50 best places to work for minorities.  
 
The Company’s business practices also have been recognized by Business Ethics 
magazine, which has placed Cummins on its list of “best corporate citizens” from among the 
1,000 largest comp anies in the United States, each of the five years it has compiled the list. 
Cummins was ranked as high as No. 2 in 2003.  
 
Cummins concept of diversity in the workplace has two parts. The first is creating a diverse 
workplace in terms of the representation  of people from many different backgrounds.  The 
second is creating an environment that promotes people’s differences and, in doing so, 
inspires innovative ideas and solutions. Making sure that everyone has a voice can lead to 
solutions that address real -time problems.  
 
The Company relies on the insight that comes from a diverse workforce to enter new 
markets and geographies. The Company depends on the varied talents of its people, 
systems and organizational knowledge to solve complex problems, reduce costs  and create 
differentiated products and services that delight customers.   
 
Diversity provides Cummins with a competitive advantage in the following areas:  
 
 New markets and new businesses – Sales in markets outside of the United 
States currently are growin g faster than in the U.S., the largest current market. 
Nearly all world growth to 2050 is projected to occur in Africa, Asia and Latin 
America. The best way to grow into new businesses and more geographic 
regions is to have employees who understand the cul ture or are part of it.  
 
 Customer requirements  – Purchasing materials and services from a diverse 
supply base helps the Company take advantage of all opportunities to be the low -
cost producer. Cummins customers are demanding the creation of economic 
opport unity for all parts of society, especially those under -represented in today’s 
economy.  This includes DaimlerChrysler, the Company’s largest customer.  This 
effort will have a longer term impact of creating new markets for Cummins 
products.  
 
 Changing demog raphics  – Immigration, changing global norms and birthrates 
have increased the population and influence of Latinos, people of African descent, 
Asians and women in many countries.  These changes are driving greater 
complexity into all regions. Successful co mpanies understand how demographics 
can impact their markets, and how dealing effectively with diverse populations 
creates value.  
 
 Competitive performance – Having a diverse workforce enables a company to 
solve complex problems, innovate and otherwise adap t more quickly in a 
competitive environment.  
  
  48  Attracting and retaining the best people – Employees who feel welcome and 
valued in the workplace will be more innovative, act as owners and engage 
customers to provide superior products and service.  A company  that promotes 
diversity in hiring and increases an understanding and appreciation of differences 
will reap the following benefits:  
 
 A positive work environment where all people can perform at the 
highest levels  
 Increased employee engagement and creativity  
 Attraction and retention of the best talent  
 A positive reputation in the community  
 Improved decision -making capabilities provided  
by more viewpoints and choices  
 Improved problem resolution  
 
 Doing the right thing  -- A company is only as healthy as the envi ronment and 
communities in which its employees work and live.  It is in Cummins self -interest, 
not selfish interest, to create an environment in which people treat others as they 
want to be treated.  This is consistent with the Company’s core values.  
  
  49 _____________________________________ Contacts  
 
Christine M. Vujovich, Vice President -Marketing and Environmental Policy  
500 Jackson Street  
Columbus, IN 47201  
 
Marya M. Rose, Vice President -General Coun sel 
One American Square, Suite 1800  
Indianapolis, IN 46282  
 
Susan Hanafee, Executive Director -Information and Communication  
One American Square, Suite 1800  
Indianapolis, IN  46282  
Telephone: 317 -610-2494  
susan.hanafee@cummins.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 