Global Vision,
Timeless Values.
Cummins Sustainability Report 2005Innovation
Responsibility
Community
Integrity
Results
DiversityFrom the Chairman
Early in this decade, Cummins set out to clearly define and articulate 
its vision, mission and core values so that they might serve as enduring 
guideposts for the Company in its journey toward sustained excellence 
in all it does.
In doing so, we were looking to carve out a set of principles that would 
become the foundation for our actions and behavior in good times and 
bad, principles that would leave no doubt what Cummins and its people 
stand for. 
We gathered input from our employees around the world and arrived at 
the statements you will see on the first pages of this report.  Cummins 
10-word Vision statement is as simple as it is powerful, and everything 
we do today flows from our commitment to “making people’s lives better 
by unleashing the power of Cummins.”
Many of the tenets central to our vision, mission and core values are highlighted in this, our third annual 
Sustainability Report. Among them: Our commitment to social responsibility; our strong belief in the value 
of being a place where diverse backgrounds and viewpoints are embraced; and our efforts to ensure that 
everything we do leads to a cleaner and healthier environment.
The past two years have been the most profitable in Cummins history and we expect 2006 to be another 
outstanding year for the Company. We have worked very hard to create a “New Cummins” that is less 
cyclical, more diversified and better positioned to be a global leader in all the markets we serve.
Perhaps more importantly, however, we have been able to achieve these results while remaining true to 
our core values of ethical business behavior and corporate social responsibility. We pride ourselves on 
operating under a set of values that emphasizes integrity, innovation, delivering superior results, 
corporate responsibility, diversity and global involvement.
As such, we were very proud to be named the top corporate citizen for 2005 by Business Ethics 
magazine, as well as the best place for Asian-Americans to work by Diversity Inc.  magazine. Likewise, 
we were pleased to be included in the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index for 2005 in our first attempt 
at inclusion in this select group.
Such recognition reinforces our view that being a socially responsible company is not only the right 
thing to do, but is good business. What is good for the world also is good for Cummins and all our 
stakeholders.
The concept of sustainability is important to Cummins and the nearly 30,000 employees who work hard 
every day to deliver on our vision and mission. As such, we welcome this opportunity to engage our 
stakeholders by providing insight into many aspects of Cummins and its operations in our third 
Sustainability Report. 
Tim Solso
Chairman, CEO -- Cummins Inc.
December 2005 
Integrity
Powering the Road Ahead
Vision and Strategy
Our Vision
Making people’s lives better by unleashing the 
power of Cummins.
That simple statement guides Cummins Inc. and 
its employees worldwide.  The Company takes 
pride in manufacturing high-quality products that 
serve the needs of our customers. But the power 
of our Company is not just our products, but the 
ideas, energy and passion of our employees.  
That passion fuels their energy and commitment 
and makes it possible for the Company to maintain 
a leadership position in the markets it serves.
Cummins also recognizes that with its role as a 
corporate leader comes the responsibility to make 
positive contributions in the communities in which 
employees work and live. Accordingly, Cummins 
corporate mission and values reflect its desire to 
return value to its customers, employees, 
shareholders and communities.
A New Cummins
The concept of sustainability is important to 
Cummins and the nearly 30,000 employees who 
work hard every day to deliver on our vision 
and mission. We have worked very hard to 
create a “New Cummins” that is less cyclical, 
more diversified and better positioned to be 
a global leader in all the markets we serve.
Integrity: Powering the Road Ahead 2Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Mission
To motivate people to act like owners working 
together
To exceed customers’ expectations by always 
being first to market with the best products
To partner with our customers to ensure their 
success
To demand that everything we do leads to a 
cleaner, healthier, safer environment
To create wealth for all our stakeholders
 Values
Integrity: We strive to do what is right  
and what we say we will do.
Innovation:  We will apply the creative ingenuity 
necessary to make us better, faster, first.
Delivering Superior Results: Our goal is to 
consistently exceed expectations.
Corporate Responsibility:  We will serve and 
improve the communities in which we live.
Diversity: We embrace the diverse perspectives 
of all people and honor them with both  
dignity and respect.
Global involvement: We seek a world view  
and to act without boundaries.
Strategic Principles
Cummins has five key elements to its business 
strategy. This strategy has not changed in recent 
years – what has changed is our improved 
performance and our continued ability to deliver 
on commitments.
Being a low cost producer in as many of the 
Company’s markets as possible.
Cummins realizes that in order to successfully 
compete in the marketplace, it must offer the best •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•products at the lowest cost. To do that, we 
leverage our innovative technology, economies of 
scale, global presence and customer partnerships. 
The Six Sigma quality program, launched in 
January 2000, is an integral part of that strategy.   
Since the program’s inception, Cummins has 
completed more than 4,400 Six Sigma projects 
and 3,700 “belts” have been trained in Six Sigma 
tools.  The Company estimates savings of 
approximately 2 percent of annual revenue per 
year, while infusing quality into every process. 
Cummins also has expanded the program to 
include processes with customers, suppliers and 
distributors with positive results. 
Cummins pursues cost leadership in other ways, 
such as conducting research and development at 
the Company’s two off-shore technical centers in 
China and India, sharing development costs with 
OEM partners and the use of computer modeling 
in lieu of building expensive prototypes of new 
products and components.
Expanding into related markets.
The Company will continue to focus growth 
initiatives in related businesses where it can use 
its existing investments in products or technology, 
leading brand names or market presence to 
establish a competitive advantage.  For example, 
the Engine Business has pursued engine sales for 
the growing oil and gas market, and service and 
maintenance contracts, particularly on its largest 
engines. Power Generation has focused on sales 
of standby power, mobile and auxiliary power and 
alternators.  The Company‘s Distribution Business 
is growing through the expansion of its parts and 
service by capitalizing on its global customer base 
and fast growth markets such as China and India.
Integrity: Powering the Road Ahead 3Creating greater shareholder value.
Return on investment, specifically return on 
average net assets (ROANA) and return on equity 
(ROE), are our primary measures of financial 
performance.  In addition to the ROE and ROANA 
targets for the company as a whole, each of our 
business segments uses ROANA targets to 
measure its performance.  Cummins has 
dramatically improved these return on investment 
measures in recent years; for example, since 1999 
(the last peak in the heavy-duty truck cycle), ROE 
has increased from 10 percent in 1999 to 21 
percent in 2004 and is edging even higher in 2005.  
Even as the Company has earned higher profits,  
it has kept its spending in check while making 
prudent investments in capacity and the right 
technology for future global emission standards.
Leveraging complementary businesses.
Increasingly, Cummins looks for ways to leverage 
the synergies among its four business units.  
These synergies capitalize on shared capabilities 
including technology, distribution systems, 
corporate brand, common customers (cross 
selling), joint venture partners for global growth 
and cost reduction through the larger scale of 
shared services. 
Creating the right environment for success.
Creating the right environment for success means 
creating an inclusive working atmosphere while reinforcing a performance ethic that attracts, 
develops and retains high-quality talent.  We 
measure our success through skills competency 
mapping, leadership development outcomes and 
knowledge management.
Profile
Cummins roots are planted in soil nourished by 
innovation, persistence and a commitment to 
community. Founded in Columbus, Ind., in 1919 as 
the Cummins Engine Company, for its namesake 
Clessie Lyle Cummins, the fledgling firm was 
among the first to see the commercial potential of 
an unproven engine technology invented two 
decades earlier by Rudolph Diesel.
Today, the Company is a global power leader with 
approximately $10 billion in sales. Half of Cummins 
employees and half the company’s sales are 
currently from outside the United States. 
Cummins is a family of four interrelated, yet 
diversified businesses that create or enhance 
value as a result of doing business with each  
other or having those relationships. These four 
businesses are Engine, Power Generation, 
Components and Distribution.Growth
The Company will continue to focus growth 
initiatives in related businesses where it can 
use its existing investments in products or 
technology, leading brand names or market 
presence to establish a competitive advantage.
Integrity: Powering the Road Ahead 4Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.5Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Cummins products can be found in nearly every 
type of vehicle, from the heavy-duty diesel-
powered trucks that travel the world’s highways,  
to tractors that till the soil, large trucks that carry 
natural resources from the mine and vessels that 
travel the waterways. Cummins-built generators 
supply both prime and auxiliary power around the 
globe. Filters and related products help engines 
run cleaner and more efficiently. A network of 
distributors provide repair and maintenance 
service for customers worldwide.
Engine Business
The Engine Business, which accounts for 
approximately for 54 percent of the Company’s 
sales, manufactures and markets a complete line 
of diesel and natural gas-powered engines for on-
highway and off-highway use under the Cummins 
brand. Its markets include heavy- and medium- 
duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-
duty automotive and a number of industrial uses 
including agricultural, construction, mining, 
marine, oil and gas and military equipment. The 
Engine Business also provides a full range of new 
parts and services and remanufactured parts and 
engines through an extensive distribution network.
Cummins engines range in size from 31 to 3,500 
horsepower and from 1.4 liters to 91 liters. Primary 
customers include large truck and off-road equipment 
manufacturers, and Cummins also is the exclusive 
supplier of diesel engines used by DaimlerChrysler  
in its Dodge Ram pickup trucks. In 2002, Cummins 
became the first engine manufacturer to comply with 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) 
tightened diesel emission standards.   The Engine 
Business is well on its way to meeting the 2007 EPA 
standards, with end-user truck fleets already running 
engines with 2007 technology in field tests.Cummins Named Top Corporate Citizen
Cummins commitment to financial – and 
social – performance was rewarded this 
spring when Business Ethics  magazine 
named the Company its top corporate citizen 
for 2005. Cummins was chosen from among 
the companies on the Russell 1000 index 
and is one of just a handful of companies to 
make the “top citizens” list each of the six 
years it has been compiled.
In compiling its list, Business Ethics  enlists 
the help of an independent research 
company that scores each company across 
several performance measures: total return 
to stockholders, community involvement, 
governance, diversity, treatment of 
employees, environment stewardship and 
human rights.
“I take real satisfaction in knowing that our 
recent financial success has not come at the 
expense of our core values of ethical 
behavior and superior performance on behalf 
of all our stakeholders,” said Cummins Chief 
Executive Officer Tim Solso. “We are proud 
to be among the small group of companies 
to make the list each of the past six years, 
and especially honored to have been 
recognized as Business Ethics’  top 
corporate citizen for 2005.”
Integrity: Powering the Road AheadIntegrity: Powering the Road AheadPower Generation Business
Power Generation is Cummins second largest 
business segment, representing approximately  
18 percent of total sales, and is one of the most 
integrated providers of power solutions in the 
world. With the Engine Business, it designs or 
manufactures all the components that make up 
power generation systems, including engines, 
controls, alternators, transfer switches and 
switchgear. It is also a key player in the  
distributed generation market. 
Products marketed under the Cummins Power 
Generation brand include diesel and alternative 
fuel electrical generator sets for commercial, 
institutional and consumer applications, such as 
office buildings, hospitals, factories, municipalities, 
utilities, universities, RVs, boats and homes.
Power Generation is the worldwide leader in 
auxiliary generator sets for RVs, commercial 
vehicles and marine applications. It also provides 
full service power solutions for customers, 
including generating equipment, long-term 
maintenance contracts and turn-key power 
solutions. The power rental business offers 
temporary equipment for both standby and  
prime power purposes. Newage is a leader in the alternator industry and 
supplies its products internally as well as to other 
generator set assemblers under the Stamford, AVK 
and Markon brands. 
Components Business
Cummins Components Business is made up of 
four separate businesses:  Fleetguard, Emission 
Solutions, Holset Turbochargers and Fuel Systems. 
Fleetguard is a leading designer and manufacturer 
of filters, filtration and exhaust systems for on- and 
off-highway applications ranging from diesel-
powered equipment to small, gasoline engine 
applications. Fleetguard makes filters for the 
industrial filtration, emissions and noise silencing 
markets. Its products are found on heavy-, 
medium- and light-duty trucks as well as industrial 
equipment for construction, mining, agriculture 
and marine and power generation applications.  
Fleetguard products are produced and sold in 
global markets, including North America, South 
America, Europe, India, China, South Africa, 
Australia and the Far East.
Emission Solutions develops systems to help 
customers meet increasingly stringent emission 
standards. Emission Solutions provides an array of Growing Cummins 
International Sales19992004
US
Europe
AsiaCanadaMexico / Latin America
Africa / Middle East
AustraliaCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
67Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
state-of-the-art technologies designed to provide 
cleaner air by removing nitrogen oxides (NOx), 
particulate matter (PM),  hydrocarbons (HC) and 
carbon monoxide (CO) from diesel engine 
emissions.  Formed in 2002, the business operates 
in both retrofit and first-fit markets. 
Holset designs, manufactures and distributes 
turbochargers on a global scale.  Holset 
turbochargers, including variable geometry 
turbochargers, provide critical technology for 
engines to meet worldwide emission standards.  
Holset is the market leader in turbochargers for 
heavy-duty equipment.  The business’ latest 
generation of products also can deliver engine 
braking, Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) and 
provide intake and exhaust noise reduction.  EGR 
technology is a very effective NOx control and is 
the foundation for most of Cummins 2002 products 
and nearly all products through the 2010 emission 
standards. EGR reduces or regulates the in-
cylinder combustion temperatures, which, in turn, 
reduces NOx production.  This allows the engine 
to be tuned for the best fuel economy and 
performance at lower NOx levels. 
The Fuel Systems business designs, manufactures 
and remanufactures fuel systems for use on 
Cummins engines and other companies’ engines.  
These fuel systems incorporate the latest 
technology that allow engines to meet stricter 
emission regulations while still leading markets in 
fuel economy.  Cummins makes fuel systems for 
the full range of diesels from mid-range to high-
horsepower engines. 
Distribution Business
The Distribution Business, reorganized in mid-
2005, combines the management of Company-owned international distributors with the 
management of Cummins North American 
distributor joint ventures to drive a comprehensive 
global distribution strategy and channel 
management. The Distribution Business expands 
the scope of what was formerly the International 
Distribution Business, which was created in 2002 
as a response to the growing size and importance 
of the Company’s retail distribution business, 
particularly internationally.Emerging Markets Growth
Consolidated
Net Sale sUnconsolidat ed
JV Net Sale s35% CAGRChina
02004006008001,0001,200
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004US$ Millions
14% CAGRIndia
0100200300400500600700
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
Integrity: Powering the Road AheadThe business consists of nine distributor joint 
ventures in North America and 17 wholly-owned 
distributors and one joint venture worldwide, 
covering 89 countries and territories through 220 
locations. Through this network, trained personnel 
sell and distribute Cummins branded products, 
related services and broader solutions such as 
maintenance contracts, engineering services and 
customized integrated products. Our customers 
include end users, equipment owners, dealers and 
local or regional OEMs.
The business serves a highly diverse customer 
base consisting of various end-users in the 
specific geographic markets in which distributors 
are located. Each distributor in a particular 
geographic region competes with other 
distributors and dealers of other engine 
manufacturers that offer similar products  
within that region.The Company-owned distributors are located in 
key geographic markets such as China, India, 
Russia, Japan, Korea, South East Asia, Australia, 
Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America.
Joint Ventures
Managing joint venture partnerships has become 
a core competency for Cummins.  The Company 
currently has 35 joint ventures (JVs) of which it 
owns 50 percent or less (known as unconsolidated 
JVs). Income and cash from these JVs has 
contributed substantially to the Company’s bottom 
line. For example, in the last five years, income 
from joint ventures grew from a $27 million loss in 
1999 to a $111 million gain in 2004.  Joint ventures 
offer many advantages to Cummins – they help 
share development costs and capital investment, 
increase scale, expand our products into new 
geographic markets and expand on our service 
capability, particularly in distribution. 
New York Sen. Hillary Clinton, with plant manager Dana Vogt (right), adds her signature to the 750,000th engine produced at the Jamestown Engine Plant.Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Integrity: Powering the Road Ahead 89Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
truck, introduced in mid-2005, delivered the same 
performance and reliability the Ram TurboDiesel 
owner has come to expect, with more features 
designed to appeal to an even greater customer 
base. Cummins shipments to Chrysler have grown 
24 percent compounded annually since the 
relationship began in 1988.
Cummins has an active and growing Six Sigma 
program that extends to working with customers. 
For example, when customer Penske Leasing 
identified a problem diagnosing problems with 
Cummins-equipped products, Cummins assigned 
one of its black belts to tackle the problem.  The 
result was a savings of several hundred thousand 
dollars in costs for Penske and a strengthened 
relationship between the two companies.
Employees
Cummins has a long history of being an employer 
of choice. That reputation continues to this day and 
is reinforced by the Company’s competitive salary 
and benefits offerings, training and career 
development opportunities and positive work 
environment.
Cummins employees enjoy a full slate of benefits, 
including innovative and competitively priced 
health-care coverage; pension and retirement 
programs; generous tuition reimbursement benefits Commitment to 
Stakeholders
Cummins recognizes that its duty goes beyond the 
bottom line. While Cummins must deliver value to 
shareholders, it also strives to responsibly and 
effectively serve all stakeholders – customers, 
employees, business partners and the 
communities in which it operates.
The Company actively engages stakeholders, 
seeking feedback and doing its best to keep them 
informed of Cummins actions and performance. 
The Company’s policies reflect a commitment to 
financial excellence, environmental stewardship, 
workplace equity, social responsibility and fair 
competition.
Customers
Cummins is dedicated to exceeding the 
expectations of its customers, making products 
and providing support that give customers a 
competitive advantage in the marketplace.
Cummins works with key customers during the 
development and production of products to ensure 
that they are manufactured to the customers’ 
satisfaction and to meet end-user requirements. 
For example, Cummins and Chrysler collaborated 
to ensure the new Dodge Ram MegaCab pick-up Joint Ventures
Managing joint venture partnerships has 
become a core competency for Cummins.   
Joint ventures help share development costs 
and capital investment, increase scale, 
expand our products into new geographic 
markets and expand on our service 
capability, particularly in distribution.
Integrity: Powering the Road Aheadfor continuing education; access to world-class 
child development centers and more. These 
benefits also were made available to non-spousal 
domestic partners in 2000.
Cummins places a premium on its workers treating 
one another with respect and dignity.  Treatment of 
others at work is a key component of the 
Company’s Code of Business Conduct and is the 
subject of mandatory training for all new hires. 
Training and career development opportunities also 
play a crucial role in Cummins success and in the 
Company’s efforts to attract and retain a talented 
workforce. All new hires must attend mandatory 
training courses covering such topics as the 
treatment of others and diversity.
In addition, the Company’s Powertrain program 
offers on-line training on a variety of subjects, 
ranging from business software applications to 
project management skills to interpersonal and 
communications skills to presentation and 
leadership skills.
Employees’ performance and development plans 
are reviewed through the Cummins
Performance Management System (CPMS). Through 
CPMS, employees work with their supervisors to 
create challenging work plans that align with the 
goals of the Company and its individual 
performance cells. Employees receive quarterly 
formal feedback from supervisors and peers, in 
addition to a comprehensive annual evaluation.
Cummins also offers its employees myriad 
challenges and opportunities for growth within the 
Company as their skills and interests dictate. 
Cummins has a strong history of “growing its own” 
leaders, and employees regularly move freely from 
one part of the Company to another. Business partners
Cummins has working relationships with suppliers 
across the world. Cummins recognizes suppliers 
for their leadership in making improvements to 
quality, technical application and delivery as well 
as their ability to use improvement programs such 
as Statistical Process Control, Six Sigma and 
Problem Solving Techniques. One such 
recognized supplier in 2004 was Michigan-based 
Behr Group, which received a Cummins 
Continuous Improvement Award for redesigning its 
EGR-cooler production line to increase capacity at 
the company’s Pforzheim factory in Germany.
Shareholders
Returning value, in the terms of profits, stock price 
appreciation and dividends, is the primary 
measure of a company’s commitment to its 
shareholders.  Cummins stock price has more  
than doubled since mid-2003 while the Company 
has maintained a very competitive dividend.
Beyond returning financial value, Cummins 
believes strongly that it owes investors a
transparent window into its financial reporting. 
Cummins goes to great lengths to keep the 
investing community up-to-date on the Company’s 
performance and future outlook. Top executives 
hold quarterly teleconferences with industry 
analysts to discuss financial results. Company 
representatives also attend a number of investor 
conferences during the year, and meet or talk 
directly with individual analysts and investors on 
nearly a daily basis.
Cummins has devoted significant resources to 
meeting the letter and spirit of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
regulations. Cummins views the regulations as an 
Integrity: Powering the Road AheadCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
1011Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Economic Performance
Over the last several years, the Company has 
launched new businesses, built partnerships and 
expanded its global reach.  In the face of troubling 
times, the Company made a commitment to focus 
on becoming the lowest cost producer, pursue 
efficiency and process improvements and rethink 
its go-to-market strategies.  At the same time, 
Cummins has introduced quality products that 
have been well received by customers and has 
continued to fund important development efforts, 
even as it has tightened capital spending and 
worked to control costs. 
As a result, Cummins financial performance in 
2004 was the best in its history. Net earnings, net 
sales, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 
and net cash provided by operating and investing 
activities were all records for the Company.  
Earnings in 2005 are expected to exceed $10  
per diluted share.
Cummins economic performance and outlook 
remain solid.  Cummins clearly has benefited from 
strong demand across a number of our more 
cyclical markets and our focus on execution has 
delivered excellent bottom-line results.  We are 
seeing margin expansion and profitable market 
share growth with disciplined pricing, focus on 
cost reduction and superior product performance important improvement tool in ensuring 
transparency in its financial reporting. 
More details on Cummins commitment to 
delivering shareholder value are in the  
“Economic Performance” section of this report. 
Communities
Cummins and its employees are actively engaged 
in improving people’s lives in the communities in 
which the Company operates.
The Company encourages volunteer efforts  
among its employees, a key supplement to 
Cummins corporate giving program, which makes 
funds available to worthwhile social causes – with 
an emphasis on education, employment, health 
issues and the environment. In addition, one of 
Cummins core corporate values is to ensure that 
the work we do contributes to a cleaner, healthier, 
safer environment.
Those efforts are detailed in the “Social 
Responsibility” and “Environmental” sections  
of this report.Cleaner Environments
One of Cummins core corporate values is 
to ensure that the work we do contributes 
to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment.
Integrity: Powering the Road Aheadin existing and emerging markets.  And we are 
building a core base of stable, diversified earnings 
that will continue to provide increased stability in 
our financial performance.  
In 2005, Cummins credit ratings were upgraded by 
two rating agencies – with one rating agency 
returning Cummins to investment grade status, 
which has been a major goal of Cummins for the 
past few years.  The agencies cited improved 
operating performance and strengthened financial 
profile as rationale for the upgrades.
The Company has been very clear about its 
operational cash priorities:  reducing debt, 
investing wisely in the business and returning 
value to shareholders.  For example, Cummins has 
reduced its debt by nearly $275 million in 2005 
and has committed to a similar reduction in 2006.
The strength of Cummins recent performance has 
given the company confidence to update several 
of its financial targets, specifically earnings before interest and taxes, net earnings as a percentage of 
average net assets, net earnings as a percentage 
of equity and the ratio of debt to capital.  These 
new targets could translate by 2010 into sales of 
up to $15 billion and earnings before interest and 
taxes of $1.5 billion, while keeping financial 
leverage in a very conservative range.  
The Company continues to spend its capital wisely 
while still funding all important development 
initiatives.  Capital spending levels in 2004 and 
2005 were below the average spending level in  
the mid to late 1990s. In 2005, the Company took 
advantage of previous investments in engine 
platforms so that capital could be used for smaller 
projects that have either removed constraints in 
our global manufacturing or funded new product 
initiatives.
Cummins commitment to being a low-cost 
producer has not wavered, either. In addition to the 
Six Sigma efforts detailed as part of our vision and 
strategy, global sourcing, lean manufacturing, and 
Cummins has benefited from strong demand across a number of our more cyclical markets, such as diesel engines.Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Integrity: Powering the Road Ahead 1213Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
technical productivity through analysis-led design 
have also helped to lower manufacturing costs by 
increasing the use of models in lieu of test cell 
time.
Investors have recognized the Company’s 
improved performance with an increase in the 
stock price. Total return to shareholders (stock 
price appreciation plus the compounding effect of 
the dividend) averaged 77.4 percent in the two-
year period during 2003 and 2004 – greatly 
exceeding its peer group and the market in 
general.  Yet the Company understands that it 
must continue to deliver value to its stakeholders, 
by reducing the impact on earnings of the 
cyclicality in our end-user markets, by focusing on 
positive cash flow and by investing in the right 
technologies for the future.
Detailed financial information can be found in the 
Company’s filings with the U. S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission, which are available on the Investor Information section of the Company web 
site, www.cummins.com.  The Company’s fact 
book, also at this web site, is a brief summary of 
the company and contains income statement and 
balance sheet trends for the past 10 years.Financial Platform
Integrity: Powering the Road AheadSocial and Corporate  
Responsibility
Thinking Globally
Governance Structure and 
Management Systems
Cummins is governed by a nine-member Board of 
Directors. Among the directors, only Cummins 
Chief Executive Officer Theodore (Tim) M. Solso 
and Cummins President F. Joseph (Joe) Loughrey 
are current employees of the Company.  Board 
members are:
Theodore (Tim) M. Solso
Elected Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of 
the Board in 2000 after serving as Company 
President since 1995. He joined Cummins in 1971 
after earning his MBA degree from Harvard 
University. He is a director of Ball Corp. Inc., Irwin 
Financial Corp. and Ashland Inc. and is a member 
of the Board of Trustees of DePauw University.Robert J. Darnall
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 
Inland Steel Industries and a Cummins 
director since 1989. Darnall is a Director of 
Household International Inc., Pactiv Corp., Sunoco 
Inc. and United States Steel Corp. He also serves 
as the Director of both the Glenwood School and 
Junior Achievement of Chicago.
 
John M. Deutch
Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology since 1990 and a Cummins director 
since 1997. While on leave from MIT, he served as 
U.S. Director of Central Intelligence in 1995-96, U.
S. Deputy Secretary of Defense in 1994-95 and as 
an Undersecretary of Defense in 1993-94. He is a 
director of Citicorp, CMS Energy, Raytheon Corp. 
and Schlumberger and is also a Trustee of 
Resources for the Future, the Urban Institute and 
Overseer of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.Compliance
Staying up-to-date on a growing number of laws 
and regulations on a wide variety of topics is 
important to ensure that employees maintain the 
highest level of ethics and legal compliance.  
To that end, Cummins has worked with a 
leader in ethics training to design and deliver 
updated and customized compliance courses.  
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
1415Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Alexis M. Herman 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of New 
Ventures and a director since 2001. She served as 
U.S. Secretary of Labor from 1997-2001. She 
currently serves on the Board of Trustees of Xavier 
University of Louisiana, is Chairwoman of The 
Coca-Cola Co.’s Human Resources Task Force 
and Chair of Toyota’s Diversity Advisory Board.  
She is a director at MGM/Mirage Inc., Presidential 
Life Insurance Corp. and Entergy Corporation.  
She is also a Trustee of the National Urban 
League, George Meany National Labor College 
and USA Football.
F. Joseph (Joe) Loughrey 
Elected President in May 2005 and to the Board in 
July 2005, after serving as Executive Vice 
President and President – Engine Business for 
more than five years.  Loughrey joined Cummins in 
1974 and has held a number of leadership roles in 
the Company during his tenure.  He is a member 
of the board of the Cummins Foundation, the 
National Association of Manufacturers, Tower 
Automotive Inc., Sauer-Danfoss Inc. and the 
Columbus Learning Center Management Corp. He 
also serves on the Advisory Council for the College 
of Arts & Letters at the University of Notre Dame.
Georgia R. Nelson
President and CEO of PTI Resources, LLC, after 
retiring as President of Midwest Generation EME, 
LLC, an Edison International Company, in October 
2004.  She joined the Cummins Board in 2004.  
She serves as a director of Tower Automotive. She 
has been appointed by the Secretary of Energy in 
the last two administrations to serve on the 
Executive Committee of the National Coal Council. 
She is a trustee of the Peggy Notebaert Nature 
Museum.William I. Miller 
Chairman and CEO of Irwin Financial Corp. and a 
director since 1989. Prior to moving into his current 
position, he was President of Irwin Management 
Co. from 1984-1990 and continues to serve on that 
company’s Board of Directors.  Miller also is 
Chairman of Tipton Lakes Co., a real estate 
development firm in Columbus, Ind. He is a 
Trustee of the Taft School in Watertown, Conn.,  
and the National Building Museum in Washington, 
D.C. and The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur 
Foundation, Chicago, Ill.
Carl Ware 
Retired Executive Vice President, Public Affairs 
and Administration for the Coca-Cola Co. He was 
named a director in 2004. He is a former member 
of the Atlanta City Council and served as its 
President from 1976 to 1979.  He oversaw the 
merger of Clark College and Atlanta University in 
1988, and has since served as Chair of the Clark 
Atlanta University Board of Trustees.  He serves as 
a director of ChevronTexaco, Georgia Power, 
Coca-Cola Bottlers Consolidated, PGA Tour Golf 
Course Properties and the Atlanta Falcons.  
J. Lawrence Wilson 
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 
Rohm and Haas Co. and a director since 1990. He 
is board member at Vanderbilt University and a 
director of the Vanguard Group, MeadWestvaco 
Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp.
Corporate Governance Principles for the Board 
The primary mission of the Board of Directors is  
to represent and protect the interests of the 
Company’s stakeholders.  In so doing, the Board 
has the legal responsibility for overseeing the 
affairs of the Company, and has certain specified 
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyShareholder Services, Inc., the world’s leading 
provider of proxy voting and corporate governance 
services.  Cummins most recent rating in October 
2005 indicates that the Company’s corporate 
governance practices have outperformed 76 
percent of companies in the S&P 500 Index and 96 
percent of the companies in its Capital Goods 
peer group.
Committees of the Board
The Board has seven standing committees: 
Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
Compensation Committee, Governance and 
Nominating Committee, Finance Committee, 
Technology and Environment Committee and Proxy 
Committee. The responsibilities of the Audit, 
Compensation, Governance and Nominating, 
Finance and Technology and Environment 
committees are set forth in written committee 
charters approved by the Board.  The Committee 
Charters can we found at www.cummins.com.
The Company complies with all NYSE and 
regulatory requirements concerning the 
membership of certain committees, including the 
requirements with respect to independence and 
financial expertise.  The Governance and 
Nominating Committee reviews the committee 
structures of the Board and the membership of the 
various committees annually, and makes 
recommendations for any changes to the Board.  
Code of Business Conduct
Cummins Code of Business Conduct serves as the 
blueprint for the Company’s commitment to act 
with integrity, to do what is right and what we say 
we will do. This driving principle is reflected in all 
of the Company’s dealings with customers, powers and authorities with respect to  
corporate action provided by Indiana statutes.  
The Board’s oversight function is exercised 
through the election and appointment of 
competent officers.  The Board relies on the 
integrity, expertise and competency of these 
officers in carrying out its oversight function.  
The Board’s responsibilities include the following:
  
Adopt corporate governance principles 
consistent with the Company’s Vision,  
Mission and Values.
Exercise sound and independent business 
judgment with respect to significant strategic 
and operational issues, including major capital 
expenditures, diversifications, acquisitions, 
divestitures and new ventures. 
Advise senior management.
Monitor:
The performance of the Company
The performance of senior management
The effectiveness of internal controls and  
risk management practices
Compliance with all applicable laws and 
regulations
Communications and relationships with 
stakeholders 
In discharging its fiduciary duties to act in the best 
interests of the Company, the Board considers the 
effect of its actions on shareholders, employees, 
suppliers, customers, communities and the 
interests of society as represented by our 
regulators. The Corporate Governance Principles 
can be found at www.cummins.com
 
Cummins corporate governance practices are 
rated semi-annually and given a Corporate 
Governance Quotient (CGQ) by Institutional •
•
•
•
ÿ
ÿ
ÿ
ÿ
ÿ
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
1617Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
suppliers, shareholders, employees and the 
countries and communities in which it does 
business.  
The Code addresses a number of issues, 
including:
Providing safe and innovative products that 
meet or exceed appropriate emissions 
standards
Competing vigorously, but with integrity
Complying with all applicable governmental 
regulations and laws
Conflicts and potential conflicts of interest with 
suppliers and customers
Proper treatment of others at work
The value of diversity in the workplace
Promoting a safe workplace
Valuing the environment
Contributing to the communities in which 
employees work and live
Ensuring accuracy and openness in financial 
reporting
Maintaining the confidentiality of persons who 
report violations of Company policies, 
procedures and rules of conduct, including 
sexual harassment and other improper conduct•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•The Code includes a section that deals with 
expectations regarding employees’ treatment of 
suppliers and other business partners. The 
policies specifically address issues of conflict of 
interest, exchange of gifts and the need to conduct 
business with integrity at all times. The Code of 
Conduct can be found at www.cummins.com.
Supplier Code of Conduct
Cummins suppliers are an integral part of the 
safety, performance and reliability of Cummins 
products.  This relationship has led Cummins to 
begin the process of creating a code of conduct 
written specifically for suppliers, with 
implementation targeted for 2006.  While Cummins 
recognizes there are different legal and cultural 
environments in which suppliers operate 
throughout the world, the proposed code sets forth 
the basic requirements that suppliers must meet in 
order to do business with Cummins.  The code 
also provides the foundation for Cummins ongoing 
evaluation or audit of a supplier.  The proposed 
code will cover topics such as applicable 
environmental laws, discrimination, diversity,  
child labor and general legal compliance.
Cummins Board members and senior management toured the Dongfeng Cummins Engine Co. plant in Xiangfan as part of a week-long trip in October 
to visit the Company’s operations in China.
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyOnline Compliance Training
Cummins has a well-deserved reputation as a 
leader in business ethics. In today’s business 
environment, companies are required to comply 
with a growing number of laws and regulations on 
a wide variety of topics.  Staying up-to-date on 
these laws and regulations is important to ensure 
that employees maintain the highest level of ethics 
and legal compliance.  To that end, Cummins has 
worked with a leader in ethics training to design 
and deliver updated and customized compliance 
courses.  The first course available in 2005 was on 
the Code of Business Conduct.  The interactive 
online course provides a practical application of 
the code and reinforces training employees 
receive at the time they are hired.
In conjunction with the code of conduct training, 
Cummins has worked to enhance its  Ethics Help 
Line by improving our global process and adding 
commonality to the process worldwide.  We 
wanted to provide one simple system for our 
employees to report any kind of violation of our 
code of conduct. The new system allows 
employees to report violations in the language of 
their country via toll-free telephone service or the 
web.  It also provides a database that allows 
Cummins to better track reports and analyze 
results. 
Crisis Communications
Making sure that Cummins is prepared if a crisis 
occurs is a key company responsibility.  To assist 
facility managers and others involved in 
emergency planning, Cummins routinely updates 
its Crisis Communications Plan, most recently in 
2005. The plan includes vital information for 
facilities on how to communicate effectively during a crisis. It also includes templates and forms to 
assist employees in gathering and updating 
information. Cummins is also in the process of 
developing business continuity plans by each 
business unit or critical function within the 
business unit.
The Cummins Operating System 
The Cummins Operating System (COS) helps 
develop common practices and approaches 
designed to improve customer satisfaction and 
profitability. This structured, measurable approach 
ensures that Cummins values and mission are 
faithfully executed across all departments and 
business units. 
The COS consists of 10 operating practices that 
are common across the Company. It is supported 
by 10 common functions, each with a Functional 
Excellence framework. The Functional Excellence 
framework at Cummins provides standards, 
measures, skills required and an individual 
development plan so each function at the 
Company can provide service or support at world 
class levels. Employees are trained on the COS 
and Functional Excellence approaches and their 
importance to Cummins future success.  
A key aspect of the Functional Excellence approach 
at Cummins involves promoting leadership across 
all business units and groups. Leaders at Cummins 
are measured on their ability to:
Drive the organization toward the Vision  
by accomplishing the Mission
Live and foster the Cummins core values of 
integrity, innovation, delivering superior results, 
diversity, global involvement and corporate 
responsibility  •
•
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
1819Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
energy policy, environment, tax, trade, 
transportation, government research and 
development, government markets, workplace and 
human resources issues, defense and homeland 
security, and facility and infrastructure programs.
In 2005, the Cummins Government Relations 
Office worked with other engine companies and 
stakeholders to enact the Diesel Emissions 
Reduction Act of 2005, a national grant and 
incentive program to promote voluntary retrofits of 
new emission reduction technologies on older 
diesel engines in existing fleets. Cummins also 
worked to enact provisions in the 2005 energy and 
transportation bills to encourage the development 
and use of advanced clean diesel engines and 
improved emission technologies through tax 
credits, retrofit programs, grant programs and 
government- funded research and development.  
The company also worked to ensure that EPA’s 
regulations requiring ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel 
(ULSD) in 2006 and engine emission reductions in 
2007 proceed on schedule.
Social Performance
Corporate social responsibility is a core value for 
Cummins, a fundamental part of who we are and 
how we do business.  Focus on customer success and deliver results
Create an environment in which people can 
develop and contribute, and where 
championship teams flourish  
Government Relations 
Beyond Cummins manufacturing processes, the 
Company is involved in the setting of public policy 
to help establish processes that will lead to 
desired goals.
In August 2001, Cummins opened an office in 
Washington, D.C. to coordinate government 
relations activities for the corporation.
 
The office provides strategic insight and advice to 
Cummins business leaders on emerging 
government issues and activities, provides top-
level access to government officials and key 
policymakers, develops and implements 
government relations strategies to achieve 
business objectives and advances business 
marketing objectives relative to government 
programs.
The office elevates government issues to senior 
management, ensures alignment with Cummins 
businesses and objectives and identifies and 
aggressively resolves key government issues for 
the corporation.  Specific areas of activity include •
•Caring
Cummins and its employees donated more 
than $3.5 million in cash and product to help 
the victims of hurricane Katrina in the United 
States and the tsunami in the Asia-Pacific.
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyCummins has several ways of promoting this 
essential value.  A Corporate Social Responsibility 
Department oversees strategies and programs to 
encourage community involvement and 
responsible citizenship.  The Cummins Foundation 
plays a role in promoting and developing 
programs or processes that enable the Company 
to do good work.  However, the most important 
work is done by Cummins employees.  
Partially as a result of these efforts, Cummins 
earned the No. 1 position on Business Ethics  
magazine’s list of “Best Corporate Citizens” and  
is one of only a few companies to be named to the 
list every year since its inception six years ago.  
Underwriting the development of schools in China 
and India, funding great architecture, aiding in the 
tsunami disaster relief effort and the volunteer 
efforts of employees in their communities are just  
a few of the reasons for recognizing Cummins 
social responsibility.  
Cummins turned the honor of being named the top 
U.S. Corporate Citizen (see separate sidebar story 
in this section) into another opportunity to give 
back to the community by making it possible for 
employees to volunteer on company time.   
Some of the “Every Employee, Every Community” 
projects were:
In China, about 480 employees dedicated more 
than 5,300 hours of volunteer time.  Employees 
assisted traffic police with road safety, helped 
disabled and poor families clean their homes 
and improved the shared community 
environment by painting, cleaning and 
gardening.  
Community involvement teams from the 
Columbus Technical Center completed a total of •
•35 community service projects, with more than 
1,400 hours of service.  
Fleetguard employees in Nashville, Tenn. 
expanded partnerships that were already in 
existence and provided even more support for the 
Boys and Girls Club, Girls Beyond Bars and 
Hispanic Achievers.   
Cummins employees in Russia assisted disabled 
children and their families in attending Russia’s 
International Children’s Day event, and volunteered 
to take disabled children to the Moscow Zoo.•
•
Tata Holset employees in India prepare ideal sets for tsunami victims.Helping to keep Mexican children living in poverty healthy is one of the 
main goals of the Juarez Community Involvement team.
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
2021Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Formed around the tsunami disaster relief effort, 
the community involvement team in Korea had 
more than 60 percent participation in its effort  
to clean up a local park.
Cummins corporate social responsibility has three 
major areas of focus: community involvement, 
corporate donations and The Cummins 
Foundation.  When special needs arise, Cummins 
does not hesitate to provide assistance.
As a company, Cummins responded with 
compassion and financial support to various 
natural disasters around the globe this year. 
Cummins employees donated $400,000 for victims 
of hurricane Katrina in 2005 in the United States, 
which generated an additional $400,000 match 
from the Cummins Foundation.  In response to the 
tsunami disaster in early 2005, Cummins donated 
$2.8 million toward the relief effort, which included 
$2.4 million worth of product. Employees took the 
initiative by making donations, forming community 
involvement teams and volunteering at local 
charities.  Donations made by employees assisted 
more than 55 different non-profit organizations.  
Matching pledges made by the Cummins 
Foundation will be used for long-term projects 
such as rebuilding schools and orphanages in 
Indonesia, India and Sri Lanka.  
As a result of the employee desire to provide 
assistance, 23 new community involvement teams 
were formed around the globe.  A total of 58 teams 
completed projects to help serve the tsunami relief 
effort.  
Other notable tsunami relief efforts included:
Cummins South Pacific partnered with 
International Rotary Shelterbox and Aquabox.  •
•“Every Employee, Every Community” 
To celebrate Cummins ranking as the Top  
U.S. Corporate Citizen by Business Ethics  
magazine, Cummins gave every employee 
the opportunity to spend a half-day of 
company time to improve the communities  
in which we live.  “Every Employee, Every 
Community” service projects were scheduled 
between May and August to provide flexibility 
for each site to manage around customer, 
employee and production schedules.
The measurable numbers: in total, 2,000 
employees spent 12,000 hours serving 42 
communities as part of the initiative.  China 
led the Company’s efforts with 5,300 hours of 
community service, followed by the Cummins 
Technical Center in Columbus, Indiana with 
1,400 hours. 
The immeasurable benefits:  “There were 
benefits from ‘Every Employee, Every 
Community’ that we did not anticipate.  I met 
people for the first time who had been my co-
workers for years.  I got a chance to problem 
solve and be a leader.” 
Evelyn, Cummins Technical Center employee
“I love to volunteer.  As a parent with two 
small children, I never have the time 
anymore.  This program let me do something 
I love that I no longer have time to do.  I am 
proud to work for a company that really cares 
about its community and its employees.” 
Beth, Cummins MidRange Engine Plant 
employee
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyThese programs included tents, sleeping bags, 
food, flashlights, cooking utensils, water 
purification systems and other survival  
supplies for victims of the tsunami.  
Cummins Power Generation, Pune provided 
more than 20 small and medium generators to 
the Indian Navy to be transported to the 
remotest islands in Andaman.   
Tata Holset Limited, a joint venture between Tata 
and Holset, prepared an ideal set (rice, dal, 
wheat, carpet, blanket, utensil, etc.) of materials 
needed by families. They made almost 200 for 
at least 80-90 families.  
Community Involvement Teams
Community Involvement Teams are employee-
driven committees that represent the diversity of 
the workforce and all levels of management.  They 
are driven by the philosophy that a company 
cannot function without a healthy community.
Each team establishes a work plan, a budget and 
a focus area for community service.  Every two 
years, these teams are audited against a set of 
Functional Excellence criteria.  The audit process 
ensures that corporate responsibility remains an 
important business objective across all business 
units, provides a measurement and recognition 
process and identifies areas for development over 
the next two-year cycle.
Community involvement teams have the 
responsibility of developing an annual plan, 
organizing volunteer activities, responding to 
community requests for donations and developing 
proposals for the Cummins Foundation.  Some 
recent examples of their work:•
•Cummins Darlington, United Kingdom raised 
$11,000 for DASH (Darlington After School and 
Holiday) for disabled children as well as had 
employees directly engaged in support.  
Employees from Newage, India held blood 
donation camps, donated items to schools for 
the underprivileged, awarded the Stamford 
Scholarship and outsourced jobs to the Pune 
Leprosy Association.   
Volunteers from Cummins Power Generation 
visited Minneapolis Crisis Nursery to participate 
in the Book Buddy Program for children at risk 
of abuse or neglect. Volunteers read to children 
from giant picture books and dramatized the 
stories with puppets, props and music. The 
project was underwritten by the Cummins 
Foundation, which provided a $10,000 grant  
to equip a Learning Resource Room.  
Corporate Donations
Donations provide a means for Cummins to 
participate in community events that are more 
appropriately funded by the Company than the 
Foundation.  These activities include 
memberships, sponsorships, dinners or other 
events.  Cummins donated approximately 
$250,000  to charitable causes in 2004.
The Cummins Foundation
The Cummins Foundation is one of the oldest 
corporate charitable foundations in the United 
States. The Foundation serves to improve the 
communities in which Cummins does business by 
providing the tools and means for people living on 
the edge of society to overcome the barriers they 
face.•
•
•
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
2223Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
The Foundation’s President serves as Cummins 
Executive Director of Corporate Social Responsibility, 
providing leadership and coordination to all the 
Company’s social work.  Cummins also has formed 
foundations in Mexico and India over the last 
decade.
The Foundation focuses on embracing the diverse 
perspectives of all people, seeking innovative 
ways to address our social needs, emphasizing 
partnerships and leveraging our people, money, 
products and services to make a difference.
In 2004, the Cummins Foundation provided  
42 grants worth $1.5 million to charitable 
organizations.  That money is in addition to direct 
corporate donations and considerable employee 
donations to the United Way.
In 2005, the Cummins Foundation began the 
Community Innovation Grant Program (CIGP).   
The CIGP is the combination of two very 
successful programs the Foundation has 
spearheaded in recent years – The Plant 
Innovation Program and the 50th Anniversary 
Grant Programs.  Employees already have taken 
the initiative and completed a project to make 
much- needed repairs to the Jennings County 
Senior Center in southern Indiana.
 Donating funds to important projects is just part  
of the work done by the Foundation.  Cummins 
recognizes that “people power” can be as 
effective as providing grants, and the Foundation 
plays a leading role in facilitating Cummins 
employees and citizens worldwide with getting 
involved in their communities.
Diversity 
“In the search for character and commitment,  
we must rid ourselves of our inherited, even 
cherished, biases and prejudices. Character, 
ability and intelligence are not concentrated in one 
sex over the other, nor in persons with certain 
accents, or in certain races, or in persons holding 
degrees from some universities over others.
 
“When we indulge ourselves in such irrational 
prejudices, we damage ourselves most of all and 
ultimately assure ourselves of failure in competition 
with those more open and less biased.”
– J. Irwin Miller, former Cummins Chairman and 
CEO.
Mr. Miller’s words, spoken more than 20 years ago 
when he was Cummins Chairman, ring as true 
today as ever. At Cummins – which does business 
in more than 160 countries - the message is The Foundation
The Cummins Foundation is one of the 
oldest corporate charitable foundations 
in the United States.  In 2004, the 
Foundation provided 42 grants worth $1.5 
million to charitable organizations.
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking Globallypowerful: Not only is valuing diversity good 
business, it’s also the right thing to do.
From a business perspective, the Company 
believes that successfully managing diversity 
strengthens relationships with an increasingly 
diverse customer base. Beyond that, a diverse 
work force – in terms of race, gender, lifestyle and 
educational background – ensures a variety of 
perspectives to best address the Company’s 
business needs. Cummins diversity initiatives 
include the following:
All employees complete a comprehensive 
diversity training program designed exclusively 
for Cummins. Second generation diversity 
training is a mandatory part of career 
development for leaders.  
The Chairman’s Diversity Council, made up of 
senior leaders from across the Company, sets 
the course for diversity issues including hiring 
practices, supplier relations, benefits matters 
and training.  
In all, 48 Local Diversity Councils (LDCs) have 
been created to address diversity issues in the 
communities in which Cummins does business. 
In addition, the LDCs focus on recruiting, 
retention and cultural differences in the 
workplace.  
Cummins long-standing commitment to use 
qualified minority-owned suppliers has yielded 
good results in recent years. In 2004, Cummins 
spent $147 million with small business and 
minority-owned suppliers.  
Cummins offers health care and other benefits to 
non-spousal domestic partners. In making these 
benefits available to employee life partners (both •
•
•
•
•same-sex and opposite-sex partners), Cummins 
recognizes that it must provide attractive and 
flexible programs to all employees. In 2005, the 
Human Rights Campaign recognized Cummins 
as one of the corporations that achieved a 100 
percent score on its diversity index.  
Cummins has received local, state and national 
recognition for its work to develop diversity in  
the workforce. In early 2005, Diversity Inc. , a 
nationally-recognized magazine that covers 
diversity issues, named Cummins as the top 
company for Asian-Americans and one of the 
“Notable Companies” for diversity. 
Cummins concept of diversity in the workplace has 
two parts. The first is creating a diverse workplace 
in terms of the representation of people from many 
different backgrounds.  The second is creating an 
environment that promotes people’s differences 
and, in doing so, inspires innovative ideas and 
solutions.  
 •
Playing an educational game on computer equipment donated by 
Cummins China.
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
2425Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
The Company relies on the insight that comes from a 
diverse workforce to enter new markets and 
geographies. The Company depends on the varied 
talents of its people, systems and organizational 
knowledge to solve complex problems, reduce costs 
and create products and services that delight 
customers.  
Diversity provides Cummins with a competitive 
advantage in the following areas:
New markets and new businesses  – Sales in 
markets outside of the United States currently are 
growing faster than in the U.S., the largest current 
market. Nearly all world growth to 2050 is 
projected to occur in Africa, Asia and Latin 
America. The best way to grow into new 
businesses and to expand into other geographic 
regions is to have employees who understand the 
culture or are part of it.  
Customer requirements  – Purchasing materials 
and services from a diverse supply base puts 
Cummins in a position to take advantage of all 
opportunities to be the low-cost producer. 
Cummins customers demand we create economic 
opportunities for all segments of society, especially 
those under-represented in today’s economy.  •
•
Changing demographics  – Successful 
companies understand how the world’s population 
is being transformed by immigration and changing 
birthrates. The population of Latinos, people of 
African descent and Asians is growing and more 
women occupy positions of authority in business 
and government. Companies that understand and 
adapt to these demographic changes will thrive in 
the economy of the future.  
Competitive performance  – Having a diverse 
workforce enables a company to solve complex 
problems, innovate and otherwise adapt more 
quickly in a competitive environment.  
Attracting and retaining the best people .– 
Employees who feel welcome and valued in the 
workplace will be more innovative, act as owners 
and engage customers to provide superior 
products and service.  A company that promotes 
diversity in hiring and increases an understanding 
and appreciation of differences will reap the 
following benefits:  
A positive work environment where all people 
can perform at the highest levels
Increased employee engagement and creativity
Attraction and retention of the best talent
A positive reputation in the community
Improved decision-making capabilities 
provided by more viewpoints and choices
Improved problem resolution  
Doing the right thing  - A company is only as 
healthy as the environment and communities in 
which its employees work and live.  It is in 
Cummins self-interest to create an environment in 
which people treat others as they want to be 
treated.  This is consistent with the Company’s 
core values.•
•
•
ÿ
ÿ
ÿ
ÿ
ÿ
ÿ
•Cummins Diesel South Africa employees clear the way for a new 
technical training institute.
Social and Corporate Responsibility: Thinking GloballyOn the road, on the rail, on the 
farm – wherever dependability  
is in demand.Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
2627Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Environment and Safety
Protecting Our World
Performance Indicators: 
Products
Cummins products are designed to provide 
customers with the highest levels of performance, 
durability and dependability at the lowest cost of 
operation.  At the same time, the Company is 
committed to meeting and exceeding clean air 
standards. 
To achieve its commitment, Cummins has long 
been a pioneer in emission research and 
development, investing in critical technologies to 
achieve future emission standards while meeting 
the needs of the customer. The emission solutions 
the Company uses today are the result of a 
technology plan set in motion in the early 1990s. 
This plan will carry Cummins through 2010 and 
beyond.
At the core of this road map is a strategic decision 
not to limit the Company’s approach, but to 
develop the right technology for each application and market served. Different operating conditions 
and factors can and will influence the technology 
path for each market. While developing multiple 
emission solutions has required a broader and 
deeper investment in research and development, 
the Company believes it will guarantee Cummins 
customers optimum performance and reliability at 
the lowest possible cost of operation. 
More than half of the $2.4 billion spent by 
Cummins on research and development in the last 
10 years has been invested in emission reduction 
technologies.  Nothing the Company does is more 
important. Cummins global presence gives us 
access to global talents, so not only do we have 
the ability to understand the markets better, we 
have the added advantage of an around-the-clock 
workforce.  If you add to those advantages the 
improvements from Six Sigma, Cummins has done 
a more comprehensive job of developing and 
delivering technology to market  than 10 years ago 
when research and development was 5 percent of 
sales instead of the 3 percent of sales it is today.Research and Development
More than half of the $2.4 billion spent by 
Cummins on research and development 
in the last 10 years has been invested in 
emission reduction technologies.  Nothing 
the Company does is more important.
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldThe Right Technology Matters
Leadership in combustion research, fuel systems, 
air-handling systems, controls and aftertreatment 
allows Cummins to maintain its goal of maximizing 
customer value by providing the most appropriate 
emissions control solution for each market served.  
In Europe, Cummins met the Euro IV on-highway 
emissions standards that first became effective in 
October 2005 using Selective Catalytic Reduction 
(SCR) aftertreatment.  SCR uses urea in a 
chemical reaction to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) 
in the exhaust.  Manufacturers have developed 
this technology for the European market because  
it is the most cost-effective trade-off when 
considering emission control and fuel economy. 
Cummins expects to use a relatively simple 
evolution of this technology to meet the more 
stringent Euro V standards that will first become 
effective in October 2008.
For the U. S. on-highway truck market, Cummins 
has been the leader in the application of cooled 
Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) technology. 
Cooled EGR is a very effective method of NOx 
control. During combustion, EGR reduces flame 
temperatures, which, in turn, reduces NOx A second part of the Cummins clean diesel 
strategy is to involve original equipment 
manufacturers as early as possible in the 
development and integration process. This open 
exchange of information and technology has  
been – and will continue to be – instrumental in 
developing high-performance products that deliver 
optimum performance and reliability at the lowest 
total cost.
First in 2002 – Ready for 2007 
Cummins was the first to meet the EPA standards 
in 2002 – and we’re well on our way to meeting the 
next level of EPA standards in 2007.  The proven 
products in operation today are the base platform 
for 2007.  Engines with 2007 technology have 
been in field tests with end-users since mid-2005. 
And in 2007 Cummins ability to leverage its 
businesses will become even more of an 
advantage, as Cummins is the only engine 
manufacturer with wholly-owned subsidiaries 
providing technology for air-handling (Holset)  
and aftertreatment systems (Emission Solutions). 
As a result, the Company is able to practice 
system integration across all critical components 
and subsystems.  
The Cummins technology plan for on-highway, 
heavy-duty applications in 2007 is straightforward, 
and includes the following:
Cummins will continue to use cooled EGR as 
the base technology for NOx reduction.  
Cummins will use a particulate filter to achieve 
the required 90 percent reduction in particulate 
matter.
  •
•U.S. On-Highway Emission Standards
        Actual emissions
- - -  Estimated level of unregulated emissionsNOx (g/kWh)PM (g/kWh)
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
2805101520
1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 20150.00.51.01.52.0
YearNOx
PM85%
Additiona l
14%90%
Add’l
9%
29Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
production.  This allows the engine to be tuned for 
the best fuel economy and performance at lower 
NOx levels. EGR technology is the foundation for 
Cummins 2007 products and beyond. 
Emissions Regulations and Cummins Product 
Goals
Since the 1970s, Cummins on-highway engines 
have been regulated by the EPA and similar 
regulatory agencies around the world for 
combustion emissions, including NOx, carbon monoxide (CO), hydrocarbons (HC) and 
particulate matter (PM), also called soot.
Cummins works closely with regulatory bodies to 
seek emission reductions that are necessary, yet 
are technologically feasible while meeting 
customers’ needs. 
When compared to emissions from unregulated 
engines, i.e. before EPA standards became 
effective in 1973, today’s on-highway diesel 
engines emit 90 percent less PM and nearly  Cummins On-Road Engine Emissions 
Compared to EPA Standards
Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions 
Hydrocarbons (HC)
050,000100,000150,000200,000250,000300,000
2002 2003 2004Tons of Hydrocarbon Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions 
Carbon Monoxide (CO)
01,000,0002,000,0003,000,0004,000,0005,000,0006,000,000
2002 2003 2004Tons of Carbon Monoxide 
Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions  
Particulate Matter (PM)
010,00020,00030,00040,000
2002 2003 2004Tons of Particulate Matter Engine Volume s
2002 2003 2004
MidRange  (3-9 liters )Heavy-Duty  (10-15 liters )Volume
Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions 
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx )
0200,000400,000600,000800,0001,000,000
2002 2003 2004Tons of Nitrogen Oxides Estimated Maximum Allowable Emissions  
by EP A Standar ds
Estimated Actual Emissions fr om 
Cummins Engines50,000100,000150,000200,000
0
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldEPA standards versus Cummins estimate of its 
engines’ actual emissions for the past three years.  
Estimates are based on the number of engines, 
both heavy-duty and midrange, manufactured in 
the United States for on-highway use per year.  
Cummins engines have released far less 
hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide into the 
environment than the maximum allowed by the 
EPA.  And even by the tough NOx and PM 
measures, Cummins has been under the 
standards.  The absolute level of emissions 
increased in 2004 over 2003 because of the 
greater number of the engines produced in 2004.
Cummins also participates in a regulatory program 
called “Averaging, Banking and Trading (ABT).”  
This program allows emission credits to be 
generated and “banked” by a company whose 
products generate emissions that are lower than 
the regulated level. These banked credits may be 
applied to other engines whose emissions are 
higher than the standard.  However, some credits 
are discounted by a certain percentage depending  
on engine type and ABT program rules.  As a 
result of this discounting process, a portion of the 
emissions credits go unused by the Company, and 
are thus a benefit to the environment.  In 2004, 
Cummins did not use credits equal to 1.6 tons of 
NOx and 0.4 tons of PM.
The 2007/2010 EPA Emissions and Fuel Rule
Looking ahead to 2007-2010, emission 
requirements will change dramatically for heavy-
duty trucks over this period. Both NOx and 
particulate matter will be reduced by 90 percent 
from 2004 levels. 
The EPA will allow for a NOx phase-in from 2007 
through 2009. During this time, 50 percent of the 90 percent less NOx.  Cummins is required to 
reduce PM and NOx from these diesel engines by 
the end of the decade to standards that are 99 
percent less than the unregulated levels.  
Off-highway engines produced by Cummins are 
also subject to stringent emission standards. While 
the combustion process for off-highway engines  
is fundamentally the same as for on-highway 
engines, the emission control strategies are not 
interchangeable because of the broad horsepower 
range, unique applications and the wide variety of 
duty cycles typical of off-highway products.  
Between 1995 and 2004, there has been a 70 
percent reduction in NOx emissions and a 75 
percent reduction in particulate matter emissions 
from off-highway engines.  Between 2011 and 
2015, off-highway engines will be controlled to 
essentially the same level of emissions as their on-
highway engines counterparts. By 2015, NOx and 
PM emissions from off-highway engines will be 98 
percent lower than they were in 1995. 
The charts on the previous page depict Cummins 
commitment to the environment by demonstrating 
that the Company manufactures engines that often 
exceed emission standards. The charts compare 
the estimated maximum allowable emissions by 
Cummins is part of a joint venture that allows engines to operate on 
natural gas, such as the bus pictured.
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
3031Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
engines produced must meet the stricter, 2007 
NOx standard, while 50 percent may continue to 
meet the 2004 standard. 
The particulate matter requirement is not phased 
in, and thus all engine production is required to be 
in compliance with the new standard beginning in 
January 2007. 
By 2010 all heavy-duty diesel engines are 
expected to meet the NOx standard of 0.2 grams 
per brake-horsepower hour (g/bhp-hr) and the PM 
standard of 0.01g/bhp-hr.
Also by 2010, regulations will require advanced 
on-board diagnostics with additional sensors to 
monitor the effectiveness of emission-control 
systems on the engine, which will alert the driver  
if a failed emission-reduction device needs to be 
repaired.
Ultra-Low Sulfur Fuel
In addition to the new exhaust emission standards 
and in support of them, the EPA is lowering the 
limit for diesel sulfur from 500 parts per million 
(ppm) to 15 ppm. The new fuel standard will be 
phased in beginning October 15, 2006, (80 
percent participation) through Sept. 1, 2010 (100 
percent participation).  Cummins has publicly 
expressed its support of ultra-low sulfur fuel and 
has urged lawmakers not to further extend the 
start date. The EPA’s ongoing monitoring of 
refineries’ progress indicates 15-ppm fuel will be 
widely available.  Ultra-low sulfur fuel has several 
benefits. It produces less particulate matter from 
combustion, so it is a particulate matter control 
strategy for all equipment in use.  In addition,  
ultra-low sulfur fuel enables the use of 
aftertreatment control systems. Aftertreatment Solutions
While cooled EGR is an “in-cylinder” technology 
that can reduce NOx, there are several 
aftertreatment solutions that can achieve reduced 
NOx levels by treating the exhaust gases after they 
leave the engine. These include Selective Catalytic 
Reduction (SCR) and NOx catalysts. As noted 
above, our heavy-duty strategy is to use EGR to 
achieve NOx reduction.  
Particulate Matter Reduction
 While previous reductions in particulate matter 
emissions have been achieved through engine 
combustion improvements and oxidation catalysts, 
the stringent 2007 particulate standards will 
require very effective particulate aftertreatment.
The active diesel particulate filter is the only 
current technology option for meeting the U.S. 
2007 particulate standards. This is the technology 
Cummins will employ to reduce PM emissions to 
the levels required in 2007.
A typical filter consists of an array of small 
channels through which exhaust gas flows. 
Adjacent channels are plugged at opposite ends, 
forcing the exhaust gas to flow through the porous 
wall, capturing the soot particles on the surface 
and inside pores of the media. Soot accumulates 
in the filter, and when sufficient heat is present a 
“regeneration” event occurs, oxidizing the soot 
and cleaning the filter.
Aftermarket: Emission Solutions 
Cummins has leveraged its research, product 
development and technology expertise to create 
businesses such as Emission Solutions. This 
Components Group business specializes in 
filtration and exhaust products and systems for 
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our Worldchoices for all major engine systems.  Some of 
Fleetguard’s “green” products are: 
Centrifugal Filtration
Centriguard filtration with patented ConeStaC rotor 
and SpiraTec media technology, collects soot up  
to two and a half times faster than conventional 
empty rotor designs.  Centriguard’s unique 
disposal and incinerable design offers 50 percent 
reduction in soot, significantly reduced engine 
component wear and improved oil viscosity and 
fuel economy.
Open Crankcase Ventilation
Enviroguard Open Crankcase Ventilation system 
helps the environment through:
Reducing blow-by oil emissions to the 
atmosphere by more than 65 percent
Lower PM emissions
Reduced oily residues on the back of vehicles  •
•
•diesel engines (9-7,000 horsepower). Emission 
Solutions offers exhaust aftertreatment systems 
that control harmful emissions such as CO, HC, 
NOx and PM.  Emission Solutions products reduce 
PM and NOx to 99 percent less than unregulated 
levels.  With retrofit and first-fit options, Emission 
Solutions has integrated service solutions to help 
customers understand local air quality regulations 
and identify sources of funding for specific 
emission reduction efforts.
Fleetguard and the Environment
As the global leader in providing filtration, exhaust, 
coolant and chemical products, Fleetguard 
recognizes the impact its business has on the 
environment. Caring for the environment also 
makes good business sense and is imperative for 
success in today’s market. As a holder of more 
than 200 active patents, Fleetguard goes beyond 
the development of current products and 
encompasses areas where advanced research 
may result in environmentally friendly technologies 
applicable for products well into the future. 
Fleetguard products continually meet or exceed 
emissions and noise regulations, reduce disposal 
issues and support extended service maintenance 
for longer product life. The company has 
developed a specific line of environmentally safer 
products called Fleetguard’s Enviro-Saver line to 
ensure:
Reduced environmental impact
Lower operating costs and increased vehicle 
uptime
Excellent performance
To achieve these superior results, Fleetguard offers 
an integrated system approach to equipment 
maintenance with environmentally friendly product •
•
•
Fleetguard filters help reduce the environmental impact of engine 
emissions. 
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
3233Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Reducing oil drip by 99 percent, eliminating oil 
dripping onto roads, crops and bodies of water, 
garages and driveways
Reduced oil waste and clean-up costs
Reduced demand for oil, a non-renewable 
resource
Less engine downtime and lower maintenance 
costs
Air Filtration 
OptiAir filters with disposable elements are 
designed with an increased outlet area to allow 
more air to flow through the pleats, resulting in less 
filter waste due to its 30 percent smaller size, lower 
filter replacement costs and reduced engine 
downtime.  Similar benefits are provided with 
Fleetguard’s Air Filter Minders, which monitor filter 
capacity and optimize performance by allowing 
use of filters to maximum capacity to support 
longer life and lower usage rates.
Going Beyond Requirements in Other Countries
Cummins meets or exceeds emission regulations 
in every country that it operates.  In South Africa, 
where there are no emission regulations, Cummins 
sells EPA certified 1998/1999 engines.  Similarly,  
in Taiwan, emissions regulations require EPA 1994 
standards, yet Cummins sells EPA 1999 certified 
engines.  In Mexico, the Company sells EPA 2004 
certified engines, although the law requires EPA 
1999 certified engines.
Cummins has worked closely with the Chinese 
government and original equipment manufacturers 
to introduce “green engines” to China.  Cummins 
is committed to bringing in advanced, low-
emission environmental products to Chinese 
customers concurrently with international markets, 
including the United States and Europe. •
•
•
•Cummins and its joint venture partner Dongfeng 
Automotive will produce Euro III diesels in 2006, 
far in advance of the local competitors.  Cummins 
in China has a history of being a “green leader.” 
Cummins was the first foreign diesel maker to 
power the large-scale Euro II transit fleet in 1999  
in south China’s Shenzhen City, two years before 
China implemented the Euro I. Currently, nearly 
6,000 Cummins Euro III diesels power transit 
buses and coaches across the country, making 
Cummins the top Euro III diesel supplier in China.
Although China does not currently have a 
nationwide emission standard for off-road 
equipment, Cummins has been working closely 
with local OEMs to introduce emission-compliant 
industrial engines at the same time as the 
European and U.S. markets. All of the imported 
engines we sell for China’s construction market are 
either Tier 2 or 3 compliant, with local production 
moving to Tier 2 in the near future.  In addition, 
Cummins Chinese engineers are helping the local 
EPA draft the first generation of China’s off-road 
emission standards.  
Cummins is pursuing low-emission and high-
efficiency power generation solutions in China. In 
2005, the first Cummins Power Generation gas 
combined heat and power project was 
successfully launched in a sports center in 
Shanghai and is an efficient producer of both heat 
and electricity for the recreational facility.
Recycling Cummins Products
The Company’s environmental focus extends 
beyond a product’s initial useful life.  Nearly all 
Cummins engines are candidates for 
remanufacturing.  Today we remanufacture some 
of our smallest engines (such as the 4B) up the 
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our Worldhigh-horsepower K19 engine.  Cummins, for 
example, remanufactures and recycles engine 
blocks, crankshafts, cylinder heads, 
turbochargers, water, oil and fuel pumps, fuel 
injectors, aftercoolers, oil coolers, rocker housings, 
connecting rods and other parts through its 
reconditioning initiatives. In 2004, Cummins ReCon 
recaptured about 20,000 metric tons of used 
“core” material.  More than 99 percent of this 
material is reused or recycled, either by Cummins 
directly or by recyclers to whom Cummins has  
sold scrapped materials. 
Future Products
Cummins is actively engaged in new product 
development to help customers and end-users 
minimize environmental impact. 
 
Particulate Filter
The stringent 2007 particulate standards, as 
previously mentioned,  will require very effective 
particulate aftertreatment.  The active diesel 
particulate filter is the only current technology option 
for meeting the U. S. 2007 particulate standards. 
This is the technology Cummins will employ to 
reduce PM emissions to the levels required in 2007.  
SCR Systems
Cummins has opened a manufacturing facility in 
South Africa to produce SCR systems to help heavy-
duty trucks meet the Euro IV and Euro V emission 
standards, which take effect in 2006. SCR works by 
introducing aqueous urea (known as AdBlue in 
Europe) into the exhaust system. The urea, an 
organic compound of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen  
and hydrogen, reacts with a catalyst in the exhaust 
system to break down NOx into nitrogen and water, 
significantly reducing NOx emissions.Light-Duty Diesel Engines
The synergy of combustion and aftertreatment 
capability has given rise to the success of a light-
duty diesel research effort designed to meet 
performance and emission requirements for the latter 
part of this decade.  Through a project funded in 
part by the DOE, Cummins light-duty diesel engine 
was the first to achieve the stringent Tier 2 (Bin 5) 
emission standards for a product in its class.  
Typically, diesel engines are 20 to 40 percent more 
efficient than comparable gasoline engines. Studies 
by the DOE have found that a 20 percent penetration 
of diesel vehicles by 2020 would save the U.S. 
350,000 barrels of oil each day. And with the recent 
increases in fuel prices and the provisions in the 
2005 Energy Bill for tax credits, it will now be 
possible to pay back the cost premium for a diesel-
powered light truck in less than one year.  This 
makes the diesel more viable than ever as a partial 
solution to the energy shortage.
Diesel engines can be found in about 40 percent of 
all new vehicles in Europe.  While nowhere near that 
penetration today,  American consumers have more 
diesel choices than ever before. Modern clean diesel 
technology can now be available in all key market 
segments, from economy cars to luxury sedans to 
light trucks and SUVs.
Distributed Generation Technology 
Development
Gas and electric power industry restructuring has 
created opportunities for distributed generation and 
combined heat and power installations that can offer 
a significant increase in efficiency and a decrease in 
emissions over present  fossil fuel utility power 
plants.  Cummins Power Generation entered into a 
cooperative development program with the DOE to 
develop an advanced natural gas engine and genset 
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
3435Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
combustion. The only exhaust byproducts are 
water vapor, and a small amount of carbon dioxide 
if hydrocarbon fuels are used. 
Innovations Beyond Diesel Engines
Cummins is part of a joint venture with Westport 
Innovations Inc., a leading developer of technologies 
that allow engines to operate on natural gas, 
hydrogen and hydrogen-enriched natural gas.  
Cummins Westport develops and markets the world’s 
widest range of high-performance, low-emission 
engines for commercial applications, such as trucks 
and buses.  In 2004, approximately 24 percent of 
Cummins Westport’s revenue came from its natural 
gas engines sold to China.  They are being used in 
cities such as Urumuqi, Chengdu, Xi’an and 
Chongqing, and Beijing operates more than 2,400 
buses powered with Cummins Westport natural gas 
engines.  Currently, there are approximately 12,000 
Cummins Westport engines powering vehicles 
worldwide.
Supporting Independent Health Research
In the early 1980s, Cummins anticipated the need for 
sound, independent research on the health effects of 
mobile source emissions.  In response to that need, 
the Company – together with the EPA – was 
instrumental in chartering the Health Effects Institute 
(www.healtheffects.org), which provides unbiased 
information on the health effects of motor vehicle 
emissions.  This institution receives equal funding 
from the EPA and the motor vehicle industry.  Today, 
Cummins continues to support this important work, 
even as exhaust emissions have improved 
considerably since the Institute was established.  In 
addition, Cummins supports various efforts at 
renowned research institutions that focus on the 
health effects of mobile source emissions.  technology of 1 MW output that has a targeted fuel 
thermal efficiency of 50 percent and reduced NOx 
emissions of 0.1 g/bhp-hr.  These figures are further 
improved when the genset is used in a combined 
heat and power (CHP) application. This 10-year 
advanced development program, now in its fourth 
year, is broken into three phased levels of 
performance improvements.
Electrically-Assisted Turbocharger
Holset is in the early stages of researching an 
electrically-assisted turbocharger as part of 
European Union funded project.  This turbocharger 
has a motor/generator incorporated in the center 
section of the turbocharger that can be used as a 
motor to improve transient performance and 
reduce emissions during acceleration as well as a 
generator to assist the alternator. Potential benefits 
are reduced fuel consumption, reduced cost and 
better drivability.
Fuel Cells
Cummins environmental commitment goes beyond 
the development of current products.  It also 
encompasses areas where advanced research 
may result in technologies applicable for products 
well into the future.  Such is the case with fuel cell 
research in Cummins Power Generation. The 
Department of Energy (DOE) awarded Cummins a 
long-term contract to develop and commercialize 
a 10-kilowatt (kW) solid oxide fuel cell system for a 
wide range of commercial and consumer 
applications. Cummins is both developing core 
fuel cell systems competencies and also strategic 
technology relationships.  The modular ceramic 
solid oxide fuel cell technology being developed 
can be scaled up into large stationary power 
systems.  Such fuel cells use fossil and renewable 
fuels in an highly efficient and environmentally 
friendly manner by producing  electricity without 
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldAdvanced Emission Controls, a division of the 
Cummins West Inc. distributor, is part of team that 
has received a $211,000 grant in 2005 from the 
Environmental Protection Agency for a demonstration 
project designed to lower emissions on heavy 
construction equipment in California.
The team also includes the West Coast Diesel 
Emission Reduction Collaborative and the 
Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management 
District. Cleaire will be the technology provider for 
the project and also has committed to providing 
$760,000 in funding for the effort. 
The award is the first of a series of EPA grants 
totaling $1.4 million for projects aimed at reducing 
diesel emissions in California, Oregon and 
Washington. The grants will leverage another $5.8 
million in matching funds from private businesses 
and local government agencies. 
Together, the partners on this project will retrofit five 
pieces of heavy construction equipment with 
emission-reduction technology and then evaluate the 
ability of the technology to lower emissions of PM, 
NOx, HC and CO.  
The construction equipment being retrofitted 
includes backhoes, loaders and excavators, which 
will have their old mufflers replaced with the 
advanced catalytic and filtration technology made by 
Cleaire. California’s construction sector is among the 
largest sources of diesel particulate matter (PM), or 
soot, in the state, accounting for nearly 30 percent of 
all PM emissions. The retrofit equipment is expected 
to reduce PM emissions by more than 85 percent, 
NOx emissions by up to 25 percent, and CO and HC 
emissions by up to 90 percent. Global Climate Change
Cummins is a member of the Business Round Table 
Climate RESOLVE (Responsible Environmental 
Steps, Opportunities to Lead by Voluntary Efforts), 
whose members have committed to reduce or offset 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.  The Climate 
RESOLVE initiative will give the Company another 
avenue to partner with the government to find 
practical, cost-effective ways to manage greenhouse 
gas emissions. Cummins also is a member of the 
Global Environmental Leadership Council of the  
Pew Center on Climate Change.
Cummins efforts to reduce carbon intensity 
encompass both our products and our 
manufacturing operations.  A key component of 
Cummins GHG reduction efforts is related to the fuel 
efficiency of our engine and generator product lines.
Cummins has numerous initiatives in this area, with 
key ones focused on the management of engine idle, 
cruise control and speed.  For example, idle 
shutdown is a feature in our engine’s electronic 
control module that shuts off the engine after a 
specified amount of time at idle, thus saving fuel.  
And a road speed governor limits the maximum 
vehicle speed controlled by the driver, so power 
required and therefore fuel burned, is directly 
proportional to vehicle speed. In addition, diesel 
technology is fundamentally more efficient than 
gasoline, in some applications as much as 40 
percent.  This advantage provides opportunities for 
the expansion of diesel engines into the market 
place and with them an associated reduction in  
GHG emissions.
Cummins Distributors
Cummins distributors invest in environmental product 
development as well.  For example, Cleaire 
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
3637Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Counsel in Developing Products and Meeting 
Standards 
In developing products to meet various standards, 
as well as the demands of its customers, Cummins 
seeks advice and counsel from its Science and 
Technology Council and the Technology and 
Environment Committee of its Board of Directors.
Cummins Science and Technology Council, formed 
in 1993, has given the Company access to some of 
the country’s leading scientific thinkers and 
policymakers from the worlds of academia, industry 
and government. 
The Cummins Science and Technology Council 
members regularly discuss the future of the internal 
combustion engine and the use of alternative power 
sources.  As a result, Cummins already has pursued 
alternative energy options, including clean natural 
gas bus engines and power generation units that 
harness waste gases such as methane available  
in landfills. 
The Science and Technology Committee members 
are: 
Dr. John M. Deutch (Chairman) 
Institute Professor at Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, former Provost and Dean of Science at 
MIT, CIA Director and Assistant Secretary DOE.  
Dr. Harold Brown, Counselor 
Center for Strategic and International Studies, retired 
Cummins Director, former Secretary of Defense and 
President of CalTech.
Dr. George M. Whitesides 
Mallinckrodt Professor of Chemistry at Harvard 
University.Dr. Michael Oppenheimer 
Albert G. Milbank Professor of Geosciences and 
International Affairs at Princeton University and 
Director of the Program in Science, Technology and 
Environmental Policy at the Woodrow Wilson School.
Dr. Ernest Moniz 
Professor of Physics at the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology.
Dr. Anita K. Jones 
Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering and 
Applied Science University of Virginia and Vice Chair 
of the National Science Foundation.
Dr. Gerald L. Wilson 
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Mechanical 
Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
formerly Dean of Engineering at MIT.
The Technology and Environment Committee of the 
Cummins Board of Directors advises top 
management and the technical leadership of 
Cummins regarding:
Technology strategy and planning
Significant research and technology projects and 
tools
Major new product programs
Environmental policy and strategy within the public 
arena as well maintaining as an internal action plan
Its membership includes the following Directors: John 
M. Deutch, Chair, Alexis M. Herman, Georgia R. 
Nelson, William I. Miller and Carl Ware.
The committee also encourages collaboration 
between Cummins and the external technical and 
environmental community and reviews the technology 
plans of the Company.•
•
•
•
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldWorkers at the Dongfeng plant in China use safe engine painting 
practices.Greenhouse Gases
Cummins improvement efforts in its greenhouse 
gas emissions from its facilities  are focused 
on efficiencies associated with the energy 
necessary to operate our facilities and 
power our manufacturing processes.
Performance Indicators: 
Facilities
Environmental Policy 
Cummins commitment to being a good corporate 
citizen is realized in many forms, including 
protecting our employees and the environment.   
Yet, doing our part to promote a healthy environment 
goes beyond producing the cleanest possible 
products. Our facilities have a large role to play in 
helping create a safe and sustainable environment 
for today  and in the future. Minimizing workplace 
injuries, reducing facility emissions and waste and 
conserving natural resources are fundamental parts 
of our overall commitment to the communities in 
which we work and live. These efforts also have a 
direct positive impact on the profitability of our 
business.   
The Safety and Environmental Council promotes 
environmental health and safety initiatives through 
the development and implementation of our ISO 
14001 certified Environmental Management System 
and the Cummins Safety System. The framework  
for the environmental and the safety management 
systems was built upon the Corporate Health Safety 
and Environmental Policy.  This policy statement acknowledges the importance 
of protecting the environment and conserving our 
natural resources, and includes our formal 
commitment to the long-term sustainability of our 
operations. Consistent with our policy and our pursuit 
of environmental sustainability, our efforts to establish 
and achieve measurable environmental objectives 
and targets ensures that we are continually improving 
our environmental performance. 
As we continue to diligently meet our regulatory 
obligations, we also will persist in our efforts to 
identify opportunities for improvement and to reduce 
the environmental impacts of our operations.   
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
3839Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Safety and Environmental Council 
Cummins Safety and Environmental Council 
includes the manufacturing, safety and 
environmental leaders from across the Company’s 
four business units and from the corporate staff.
The Council meets quarterly and is responsible for 
building a best-in-class safety and environmental 
organization across Cummins worldwide entities. 
The group develops, reviews and recommends 
improvement initiatives at all levels of the 
organization, with the goal of minimizing the  
global impact of the Company’s operations.  
Among these initiatives are a focus on facility 
registration to the ISO 14001 standard, the 
elements of which are maintained within the 
Cummins existing and more comprehensive 
health, safety and environmental management 
systems (HSEMS). The Council also leads the 
sustainability effort by  determining which facilities 
will report environmental measures, setting 
strategy, developing objectives and targets,  
and monitoring progress against those targets.   
Cummins Operating System
Cummins Operating System (COS), our structured 
approach that ensures consistent execution of the 
company’s values and mission, is supported by 10 
common functions.  While safety and 
environmental improvement efforts apply to each 
of the COS practices, they are most clearly 
applicable to Practice 7, “Right Environment”.   
The ultimate goal of our safety and environmental 
improvement efforts is to put the customer first by 
protecting our employees and communities.  To 
create the “right environment,” Cummins must 
assure a place of employment free from industrial Cummins Sustainability Leadership 
Recognized
Cummins was recognized this past year for 
its sustainability leadership by being added 
to the 2005-2006 Dow Jones Sustainability 
World Index.  The index analyzes companies 
in three categories – economic, environment 
and social – also known as the “sustainability 
triple bottom line.”   Each of these categories 
counts for one-third of a company’s total 
score, which gives the Company’s 
environmental performance a stronger 
weighting than in other sustainability 
evaluators.
This selection puts Cummins in the  top 10 
percent of the world’s largest 2,500 
companies in these corporate sustainability 
metrics. Cummins is one of the 44 global 
companies in the World Index’s industrial 
goods and services sector and only one of 
two U.S. companies added to that particular 
sector this year. Dow Jones considers issues 
such as corporate governance, codes of 
conduct, environmental policy and 
procedures and the scope of their 
application, environmental management 
systems, corporate citizenship and 
philanthropy, labor practices and employee 
development.
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldEnvironmental Management System Registration to ISO 14001
Site Reg. 
YearLocation Business Unit
Daventry Engine Plant 2001 UK Engine
Fleetguard – Quimper 2001 France Components
Holset – Huddersfield 2001 UK Components
Darlington Engine Plant 2002 UK Engine
Nelson – Mineral Point 2001 USA Components
Cummsa SLP 2002 Mexico Engine
Nelson – Viroqua 2002 USA Components
Nelson – Arcadia 2002 USA Components
Nelson – Wautoma 2002 USA Components
Cummins Industrial Center/Cummins 
Komatsu Engine Co.2002 USA Engine
Newage – Stamford 2002 UK Power Gen
Holset – Charleston 2002 USA Power Gen
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Co. Ltd/
Cummins Xiangfan Machinery Co. Ltd2002 China Engine
Cummins Original Equipment Reman 2003 Canada Engine
Tata Cummins Limited 2003 India Engine
 Fuel Systems Plant/General Office 2003 USA Components
Cummins Brazil Ltd. 2003 Brazil Engine
Midrange Engine Plant 2003 USA Engine
Fleetguard – Lake Mills 2003 USA Components
Nelson – Black River Falls 2003 USA Components
Cummins Corporate Enterprise 
Environmental Management System2003 Worldwide Corp
Nelson – Bloomer 2003 USA Components
Nelson – East 2003 USA Components
Tata Holset 2004 India Power Gen
Kuss 2004 USA Components
Wuxi – Holset 2004 China Power Gen
Consolidated Diesel Company 2004 USA Engine
Jamestown Engine Plant 2004 USA Engine
Cummins Power Gen – Fridley 2004 USA Power Gen
Diesel ReCon Co. – Juárez/El Paso 2004 USA Engine
Cummins Power Generation - Kent 2005 UK Power Gen
Fleetguard - Shanghai 2005 China Components
Fleetguard – San Luis Potosi 2005 Mexico Components
Newage – San Luis Potosi 2005 Mexico Power Gen
Diesel ReCon - Memphis 2005 USA Engine
* Sites listed in red represent enterprise registrations
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
4041Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
and by the end of 2005, will have 34 
manufacturing facilities and the corporate entity 
registered.  Twenty-one of those entities are 
registered within the worldwide Cummins 
Enterprise certification. 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate 
Strategy
Climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions are key strategic environmental 
initiatives at Cummins facilities.  Over the past 
several years, we have increased the number of 
entities reporting their emissions and related data 
for compilation in this report.  The data are also 
used to identify areas of opportunity where we can 
leverage improvement initiatives around the 
worldwide organization.  Additional efforts have 
involved addressing worldwide variability in 
regulatory requirements and other inconsistencies 
that make the collection and assimilation of the 
data a challenge.  We are continually improving 
the reporting process to support the accurate 
reporting of comprehensive measures that 
represent impacts to the environment, both 
positive and negative.   
Our initial corporate objective and associated 
targets included the improvement of our data 
collection and measurement systems, and the 
development of a GHG emissions baseline for 
2003.  These efforts are complete.  An effort is now 
under way to capture historical data to develop a 
year 2000 baseline so we can measure the 
positive impacts of our Six Sigma projects before 
2003. From these data, we will develop a GHG 
intensity reduction goal. Cummins will provide a 
status report of progress against the goal in future 
sustainability reporting efforts.illness, injury or environmental compromise.  The 
workplace must be clean, orderly and free from 
hazards to achieve the goal of zero injuries and 
environmental incidents. This, in turn, aligns with 
the mission statement of demanding that 
everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier, 
safer environment.
ISO 14001 Registrations
Cummins is committed to using ISO 14001 to 
achieve effective environmental management as 
the Company strives to become a worldwide 
leader among manufacturers in protecting the 
environment.
Corporate level procedures were developed and 
incorporated within the Cummins HSEMS to serve 
as a framework for the organization’s conformance 
to the ISO 14001 standard. A key component of 
the HSEMS framework is a worldwide, centrally 
managed, “enterprise” approach to ISO 14001 
registration.  This allows Cummins to identify 
superior environmental management programs  
at individual sites and implement those programs 
throughout Cummins worldwide.
The Safety and Environmental policy drives the 
global Enterprise Environmental Management 
System, which provides the platform for setting key 
environmental objectives and ongoing monitoring 
of our environmental performance. The enterprise 
approach also is a cost effective way for Cummins 
sites around the world to obtain and maintain ISO 
14001 certification and is the model on which we 
will deploy our international Safety Management 
system to conform to OHSAS 18001. 
Cummins registered five new sites to the ISO 
14001 standard since our last sustainability report 
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldEmission Reduction in Our Facilities
From a facilities GHG emissions perspective, 
Cummins improvement efforts are focused on 
efficiencies associated with the energy necessary 
to operate our facilities and power our 
manufacturing processes.  These projects have 
ranged from energy efficient lighting and 
compressor efficiency endeavors to installation  
of Cummins turbine products that energize a 
combined heat and power system.  Cummins has 
initiated a number of process improvements and 
quality initiatives at its manufacturing and test 
facilities to improve the quality of our products, 
while at the same time, reducing associated 
emissions from those facilities.
Engine Testing
Cummins is working to reduce energy 
consumption, lower pollution levels and reduce 
costs through initiatives to reduce engine testing in 
product development and in manufacturing. These 
initiatives encompass design, the verification of 
manufacturing quality and the advanced diesel 
engine quality verification process. Some of those 
initiatives are detailed below.
Analysis-Led Design Initiative
Cummins has applied Six Sigma disciplines and 
processes in our product design and technology 
development areas to ensure we are designing 
components and systems that will be robust in the 
manufacturing environment. The analytical tools 
being used are part of our analysis-led design 
initiative.  
As part of this initiative, we use computer 
simulations to replace traditional hardware testing, which involves building and testing many 
expensive prototypes. Instead, a “virtual engine” is 
built and then tested in a simulation that analyzes 
how the parts interact with each other in system 
performance.
This process allows us to look at more designs in  
a shorter time. As we have applied analysis-led 
design, we have added 2,500 hours of virtual 
analysis while eliminating 5,500 hours of engine 
testing and the prototypes that go along with it.  
The process yields better designs faster, at a lower 
cost and with substantial reductions in test cell 
time and the fuel use and its associated emissions.
Verification of Manufacturing Quality
Engine attribute testing requirements have been 
reduced on certain product lines because in-
process verification allows the identification of 
potential problems upstream of the test cell 
process.  This product quality initiative promotes 
the concept of “Right First Time,” a more effective 
means to test a component and engine system, 
with an associated environmental benefit.
Advanced Diesel Engine Quality Verification
Cummins has used the Technology Development 
for Six Sigma tools to develop the next generation 
of production diesel engine testing – Advanced 
Engine Functional Test (AEFT). The enabling 
technology for AEFT is the introduction of the new 
family of high pressure common rail fuel systems. 
This advancement allows the engine to self-prime 
and thus removes the need for even the most 
rudimentary form of running engine test. As 
Cummins migrates to this fuel system technology, 
production facilities can introduce AEFT as the 
primary end-of-line test solution.
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
4243Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Increases in the number of reporting facilities and 
the evolution of our data reporting and collection 
process has made trend analysis of our 
environmental measures a challenge.  Still, our 
many efforts that address waste minimization, 
energy efficiency and recycling provide significant 
and incremental contributions that ensure our 
environmental impacts are diminishing.  
For perspective on our areas of environmental 
concern, a general description of the manufacturing 
operations by business unit follows below. 
Cummins Engine Business
Within the Cummins Engine Business 
manufacturing facilities employees conduct product 
design, research and development, engine 
manufacturing and engine and component 
reconditioning.  Engine assembly facilities perform 
engine block and component machining, assembly, 
painting, alkaline bath parts washing and engine 
performance testing.  Product design and engine 
testing are the primary operations in the research 
and development technical centers where 
production processes are limited.
Engine testing is conducted in stationary test 
stands or cells, where product performance 
information is measured as engines run at various 
duty cycles.  Test cells also are used for certification 
testing to ensure products meet emissions 
requirements. Rebuild/reconditioning facilities 
perform engine tear-down and reassembly, using 
alkaline parts washing processes. 
Cummins Components Group 
Cummins Components Group facility operations 
primarily involve filtration and exhaust product 
design, research and development, filter and 
exhaust component assembly and product MidRange Engine Plant AEFT Initiative
The environmental impact of AEFT is best understood 
in the context of comparing the emissions from an 
existing test to its AEFT counterpart.  In the existing 
MidRange no-load two-minute attribute test, for 
example, at current plant build levels, this attribute 
test uses approximately 4,000 gallons of fuel. In 
contrast, AEFT is projected to consume approximately 
88 gallons. This represents a 97 percent reduction in 
fuel consumption. Attribute hot test is scheduled to be 
decommissioned as AEFT comes on line and is 
targeted for full production by the end of 2006.
Future AEFT Impact
Each particular engine will have a different 
implementation strategy. MidRange automotive can 
approach AEFT as a complete solution. Other 
segments, for example High-Horsepower, would use 
AEFT as a cost-effective approach to reduce the 
amount of time required to hot test an engine, greatly 
reducing fuel consumption. 
Reporting Scope
Cummins has been collecting environmental 
performance data selectively from its manufacturing 
facilities since 1999.  Expansion of the reporting effort 
encompasses each of the Cummins manufacturing 
divisions worldwide.
Cummins tracks a wide range of facility data to 
measure the potential environmental impacts of its 
operations. The data compiled for this report 
represent a substantial majority of Cummins 
manufacturing facilities, including all of the 
Company’s engine assembly plants, the corporate 
office building and the larger non-manufacturing 
facilities.  
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our Worldresins.  Metals and metal parts that cannot be 
reconditioned for re-use in Cummins products are 
salvaged for off-site recycling, as are used oils.  
Other waste streams include filter media and 
resins.  At most facilities, machine coolant is 
recycled until ineffective and ultimately added to 
the wastewater stream for pretreatment prior to 
discharge to public treatment works. 
Environmental Performance Measures
Reporting Sites
Consolidated Diesel Company (CDC)
Cummins – Brazil Ltd.
Cummins Engine Plant 1 (CEP)
Cummins India Ltd. (CIL)
Cummins Industrial Center (CIC/CKEC)
Cummins MerCruiser Diesel (CMD)
Cummins MidRange Engine Plant (CMEP)
Cummins Power Generation - Fridley
Cummins Power Generation - Kent
Cummins Power Generation - Singapore
Cummins Technical Center (CTC)
Cummsa - SLP
Darlington
Daventry
Diesel ReCon – El Paso
Diesel ReCon - Juarez
Diesel ReCon - Memphis
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company
Fleetguard - Cookeville
Fleetguard – Lake Mills
Fleetguard - Quimper
Fuel Systems/General Office Building (FSP/GOB)
Holset - Charleston
Holset - Huddersfield
Jamestown Engine Plant (JEP)
Kuss Corporation
Memphis Parts Distribution Centerdistribution and warehousing.  Emission Solutions 
designs and manufactures emission controls 
aftertreatment products.  In addition, the Holset 
Turbocharger and Fuel Systems businesses are 
now incorporated within the newly organized 
Components Group.   Key operations conducted 
among the Components Business divisions 
include filter, fuel systems, turbocharger and 
exhaust component assembly, metal stamping and 
component machining, welding, product assembly, 
painting and performance testing.  
Cummins Power Generation Business
Cummins Power Generation Business facility 
operations primarily involve product design, 
research and development, alternator 
manufacturing, assembly of generator sets, 
switchgear and controls and product testing.  
Alternator manufacturing facilities perform 
component machining, lamination stamping, rotor 
and stator winding, resin impregnation and 
alternator assembly.  Assembly facilities perform 
housing fabrication, genset assembly, switchgear 
and controls assembly, painting, alkaline bath 
parts washing and genset performance testing.  
Product design and performance testing are 
conducted in the research and development 
technical centers.  Genset testing is conducted in 
stationary test stands/cells, where product 
performance information is measured while 
gensets are run at various duty cycles.  Test cells 
also are used for certification testing to ensure 
products meet emissions requirements.
Waste Streams
The primary waste streams generated at Cummins 
manufacturing facilities include waste paint and 
associated materials, paint filters, sludges and 
filter cake, machine coolant and used oil and 
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
4445Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
reflected in these data, power derived from 
hydroelectric, nuclear and/or renewable sources 
are not applied to emission factors.
Direct (totals in kWh and gigajoules)
Fuel Oil: 40,364,720 kWh / 145,313 GJ
Natural Gas: 364,166,400 kWh / 1,310,999 GJ
Propane: 340,833 kWh / 1,227 GJ
Indirect:
Electricity: 662,736,935 kWh / 2,382,421 GJ
Total Water Use 
1,111,252,451 gallons / 4,206,548 cubic meters
The water use data were derived from annual 
totals for each of the reporting facilities and 
includes water used for industrial and consumptive 
purposes.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Totals are reported in metric tons. 
Direct  CO2   
Fuel Oil  856   
Diesel  111,927   
Natural Gas 65,722   
Propane 73    
Indirect CO2
Electricity 448,588  
CO2 totals were derived using World Resources 
Institute GHG Emissions Protocols and/or EPA AP-
42 Compilation of Air Pollutant Emissions Factors.
 Nelson - Arcadia
Nelson – Black River Falls
Nelson - Bloomer
Nelson – Mineral Point
Nelson – Neillsville East
Nelson – Neillsville West
Nelson - Viroqua
Nelson - Wautoma
Newage - Stamford
Tata Cummins Ltd. (TCL)
Universal Silencer - Muscoda
Materials Other than Water
Data reported by our facilities quantifies specific 
categories of process materials used most 
commonly in Cummins manufacturing processes. 
Diesel Fuel – 11,044,034 gallons
Natural Gas – 1,205,829,814 cubic feet
Propane – 467,910 cubic feet 
Oil – 1,688,349 gallons
Paint – 305,961 gallons
Coolant – 828,200 gallons
Solvent/thinner – 92,512 gallons
Acids – 121,038 gallons
Caustics – 216,383 gallons
Direct and Indirect Energy Use 
Cummins manufacturing operations use electricity, 
natural gas, diesel and propane as the primary 
sources of energy.  The energy data provided 
below represent electricity used at the Company’s 
facilities to generate power for manufacturing 
operations, power produced and sold to the 
regional grid and that used for facility heating and 
cooling purposes.  Emission calculations on the 
basis of electrical energy use account for its 
ultimate source, so although the total KWh are 
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldTotal Amount of Waste by Type 
Cummins has active recycling programs. Proceeds 
from recycling efforts at some locations are used  
to fund employee enrichment programs or are 
donated to charitable causes within the local 
community.  
Wastes disposed are closely tracked at the facility 
level to meet environmental regulatory 
requirements, to quantify materials for which 
monetary returns are available on a weight or 
volumetric basis and for environmental performance 
measures.  Waste and recycled material quantities 
are presented in aggregate.  Data have been 
rounded to the nearest whole number.  Categories 
are defined and materials quantified as follows:
Landfilled Industrial Waste
Includes industrial wastes disposed in landfills, 
such as sludges, filter cake, grinding swarf (grit  
and other solid impurities that build up in machine 
coolant) and related material that is concentrated 
and accumulated from specific manufacturing 
processes, but is not specially regulated due to 
toxicity.  
5,420,141 pounds / 2,463 metric tons
General Refuse
This waste data represent approximately 75 
percent of our facilities, as some facilities do  
not currently report weight-based measures.
18,658,614 pounds / 8,481 metric tons
Recycled Metals
Metals derived predominantly from machining  
and salvage operations. Ozone Depleting Substances
In 1995, Cummins implemented a policy that 
stationary equipment using chlorofluorocarbons 
(CFCs) would no longer be purchased by 
Cummins.  Equipment already in place would  
be considered for conversion or replacement 
depending on its age and repair costs.  
As a result of this policy, Cummins has replaced 
more than 50 percent of its equipment containing 
ozone-depleting substances. 
Significant Air Emissions 
Direct emissions to air from facility operations;  
all data is in metric tons.
NOx – 3,164
CO – 695 
PM – 215
CO2 – 178,578
VOCs – 854 
Data for NOx, CO, PM and CO 2 are based on 
diesel fuel used in product testing applications 
and No. 2 fuel oil, propane and natural gas used in 
boilers and furnaces, and were derived using EPA 
AP-42 Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission 
Factors, 1996. It should be noted that AP-42 
emissions conversions used for large diesel 
engines are based on obsolete technology. 
Although we have not used conversion factors 
developed from our own emission testing, it is 
certain that the emissions data presented here 
based on AP-42 is overstated. VOC totals are 
based on throughput and VOC content of the 
significant sources at each reporting site;  
however, total emissions for this parameter are  
not considered to be comprehensive.
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
4647Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Significant Spills of Chemicals, Oils, and Fuels
The Daventry Plant in Daventry, England 
experienced a blockage in the 37-year-old clay 
public sanitary sewer lines adjacent to the 
property boundary, which resulted in a release of 
sanitary wastewater into a storm water inlet outside 
the property boundary.  See further details in the 
section that follows.  This was the only significant 
spill originating from any Cummins facility within 
the 2004 sustainability reporting timeframe.  
Incidents and Fines for Non-compliance 
Daventry Engine Plant, England 
The Daventry Plant experienced a sewer blockage 
that resulted in a release of sanitary wastewater into 
the  storm water system outside the property 
boundary.   The wastewater flowed via the storm 
sewer system to a surface water body downstream of 
the plant.  Analysis of the surface water body by the 
Environmental Agency did not prompt the need for 
any remedial action. 
 
A legal proceeding held in January of 2005 resulted 
in a fine of £5,000.  The issue is now closed with the 
authorities.
In response to the problem associated with the aging 
piping system, the sewers were repaired and liners 
were installed within the system to ensure that 
sanitary wastes are conveyed to the public treatment 
works.  In addition, the sewers are now installed with 
a two-stage level alarm, which has flashing beacons 
for visual notification of a problem and are equipped 
with an electronic messaging system that sends text 
messages to site personnel cellular phones to alert of 
the system status.  System status can also be viewed 
via an internet link at any time.Iron and Steel: 
244,932,922 pounds / 111,333 metric tons
Aluminum: 2,163,717 pounds / 983 metric tons
Copper, Brass and Other: 
1,030,370 pounds / 468 metric tons
Other Recycled Materials
These include shop and office materials 
reprocessed for re-use outside the facility. Data for 
recycled materials are understated because at 
several locations volumes and load weights are 
unavailable, unreliable or represent aggregate vs. 
individual material totals. 
Cardboard: 28,813,296 pounds /13,096 metric tons
Paper: 462,339 /210 metric tons
Wood: 17,632,779 pounds / 8,014 metric tons
Plastic: 556,018 pounds / 252 metric tons
Re-used Liquid Wastes
These represent estimated quantities of industrial 
process wastes reclaimed for re-use or otherwise 
re-used based on Btu content as feedstock in 
cement kilns or blended fuels.  These include oil, 
coolants, solvents and thinners and residual fluids 
primarily from painting processes, including 
selected wastes that are regulated as hazardous 
as defined within the U.S. Resource Conservation 
and Recovery Act.
2,483,219 gallons / 9,400 cubic meters
Significant Discharges to Water
The discharges listed below represent an 
estimated quantity of industrial process and 
sanitary wastewater and do not include water loss 
from heating and air-conditioning systems.
897,101,545 gallons / 3,395,899 cubic meters
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldJamestown Engine Plant – Lakewood, NY
2004 Environmental Regulatory Actions
Waste Water 
The Jamestown Engine Plant on January 20, 2004, 
was issued an Enforcement Action notice from the 
Chautauqua Lake Sewer District for alleged 
discharge of deleterious materials to the sanitary 
sewer on August 24, 2003.  Cummins paid a civil 
penalty of $4,000 and expenses of $588 as 
financial settlement of this incident.  
The August 2003 incident was related to the 
cleanout of a coolant system at JEP.  Cummins 
worked with the sewer district and our chemical 
supplier to implement a program of testing the 
various cleaners and coolants for their potential 
impact on the sewer district operations.  As a 
result, we have identified the various coolant 
system wastes that may by processed and sent to 
the sewer, which wastes can be processed over 
an extended period of time and which wastes are 
sent to an off-site treatment facility.   Procedures 
are in place for the control of coolant and other 
process system cleanouts.  
Air Emissions
1.9 percent of the production engines tested at the 
Jamestown Engine Plant had specified nitrogen 
oxides (NOx) emissions of 9.3 grams per brake 
horse power hour (g/bhph),  which exceeded the 
9.0 g/bhphr limit per New York State (NYS) air 
regulation 6NYCRR 227, 2.4 (f)(2) for the period of 
Jan, 1, 2004 through Feb. 11, 2004.  The engines 
tested with NOx specifications greater than 9 g/
bhph are for overseas shipment.  Revisions to  
NYS regulations that exempt the testing of diesel 
engines in test cells from NOx limits became 
effective Feb. 11, 2004.  The revisions to NYS 
Subpart 227-2 “Reasonably Available Control Technology for Oxides of Nitrogen” were requested 
by Cummins. 
Cummins reported this deviation from the air 
permit requirements to the NYS Department of 
Environmental Conservation in our 2003 semi-
annual report.  This deviation from permit limits did 
not result in any regulatory action and no further 
NYSDEC action is anticipated.  
Columbus MidRange Engine Plant – Columbus, 
IN
On June 17, 2004, a representative from the Indiana 
Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) 
performed an inspection of the Columbus MidRange 
Engine Plant (CMEP) in Walesboro, Indiana.  During 
that visit, it was noted that the site SPCC/
Contingency Plan did not identify the Emergency 
Response Coordinator.  The inspector also 
determined that the SPCC/Contingency Plan 
needed to be more prescriptive as it relates to 
hazardous waste planning and response.  On 
August 27, 2004, CMEP submitted a revised SPCC/
Contingency to IDEM that included the additional 
information described in the inspection report.  A 
written response was received from IDEM indicating 
that no additional action was necessary.  No fines or 
penalties were levied.
Cummins India Limited, Pune, India
On July 14, 2004, Cummins India Limited received a 
notice of non-compliance with the Hazardous Waste 
Manufacturing and Handling rules because its used 
oil was being recycled by an entity not yet 
registered in India for that purpose.  At the time of 
the citation, a list of registered recyclers had not 
been developed by the regulatory authority.  
Nevertheless, CIL paid a fine of approximately $535.   
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
4849Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Maximizing Energy Efficiency
Cummins has implemented a number of projects 
at its facilities in the past three years to reduce 
energy use. Among the projects receiving awards 
were:
Cummins Power Generation – Fridley Receives 
ESC Energy Award
The Energy Solutions Center (ESC) selected 
Cummins Power Generation – Fridley (CPGF) as 
the recipient of the ESC’s Partnership Award for 
Innovative Energy Solutions.  The ESC is an 
international technology organization of 36 energy 
utilities dedicated to the greater utilization of 
energy efficient, environmentally-sound equipment 
for energy users.  The award was presented at a 
ceremony in October 2005 in Minneapolis, Minn. 
The ESC Award is given to a partnership of 
organizations that work together to bring online a 
new, energy efficient solution.
The project team received the Cummins 
Chairman’s Award for Environment for 2003 as the 
top sustainability effort of the year.  The project 
involved deployment of two Cummins 60 kW 
microturbines in a Combined Heat and Power 
(CHP) installation.  Net energy efficiency of the 
CHP system is more than 85 percent.  Power from 
the CHP system has replaced the need to 
purchase 1 million kWh per year from the local 
coal-burning utility.  This, in turn, reduces the total 
amount of carbon dioxide emissions by 1,000 tons 
per year, which is equivalent to the greenhouse 
gas emissions produced by burning 80,000 
gallons of diesel fuel.Following the incident, a list of registered  
re-refiners and recyclers was published by  
the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board and  
CIL manages its used oil in full compliance  
with applicable requirements. 
Continual Improvement and Six Sigma
From a facilities perspective, Cummins has 
implemented a number of projects to address 
sustainability issues based on commitments made 
in the environmental mission and policy.  These 
commitments include natural resource 
conservation and pollution prevention, which have 
been a continuous improvement focus at Cummins 
for a number of years.  Cummins has made 
considerable strides in this regard through the 
implementation of Six Sigma programs.  Indeed, 
Six Sigma is the key problem solving tool that 
Cummins has employed for environmental 
improvement projects. Six Sigma projects focused 
on reducing energy use, waste and costs yielded 
cost savings of $5.6 million annually for the years 
2001-2003, at an average of $122,000 per project.
 
Energy Conservation at Cummins Facilities
Cummins spends more than 88 percent of its utility 
(electricity, natural gas, heating oil, water and 
sewage) dollar on electricity and natural gas. For 
2004, Cummins spent approximately $48 million 
on these utility costs, a 17 percent increase from 
2003.  This was affected by increased production 
volumes and higher energy commodity prices; to 
put this increase into perspective, Cummins 
revenue in 2004 was 34 percent higher than in 
2003.  The Company used Six Sigma projects to 
help control utility consumption and costs.  
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldManagement at the National Award Competition 
held in Chennai, India in December 2004. 
This competition coincided with Energy Summit 
2004, organized by the Confederation of Indian 
Industries (CII)  and was open to any industrial 
company in India whose energy bill (fuel, power 
and water) exceeds $600,000 a year or with a 
peak power demand of 750 KVA or more.  Those 
selected for presentation at Energy Management 
2004 represented India’s leading industries, 
including automotive and chemical companies, 
etc.  CIL showcased its achievement of energy 
cost reduction, amounting to a reduction of 22 
percent over the last three years. 
Customer Excellence in Sustainability Award
Cinergy, the electrical energy provider in the 
Columbus, Ind. area, selected Cummins as the 
recipient of a 2004 Excellence in Sustainability 
Award. 
Each year, Cinergy recognizes some of its best 
suppliers, employees and various branch offices 
for their work in the community, for dealing with Compressed Air Project MidRange Engine Plant
A Six Sigma project at Cummins MidRange Engine 
Plant focused on creating energy savings 
associated with compressor run time and the 
overall effort to maximize the compressed air 
process. 
Initially, meters were installed on each compressor 
to obtain a baseline usage.  After enough data was 
generated to establish the average kWh per day, 
numerous improvements were made involving 
leakage corrections and overall optimization of the 
compressed air usage and process.    These 
improvements resulted in a reduction of 6,189 kWh 
per day, equating to an annual reduction in 
emissions of 134,000 pounds of nitrogen oxides, 
366,000 pounds of sulfur dioxide, and 53 million 
pounds of carbon dioxide. 
Cummins India Ltd. Receives Excellence in 
Energy Award
Cummins India Limited was awarded a National 
Award Trophy for Excellence in Energy Coolant Disposal at 
Fleetguard’s Lake Mills Plant
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,00014,00016,00018,000
Jan 01 Jun 01 Jan 02 Jun 02 Jan 03 Jun 03 Jan 04 Jun 04 Jan 05 Jun 05Gallons
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
5051Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
environmental issues and for providing excellent 
service to their customers. Cummins is the first 
customer to receive this award.  
Cinergy praised Cummins for being among the 
best in its industry when it comes to air-emissions 
reduction research and for: 
Spending more than half its in-house research 
and development dollars on emission-reduction 
technologies in the last 10 years 
Reducing diesel engine emissions by 90 
percent 
Underwriting the development of schools in 
China and India
Purchasing bio-diverse forest land in Mexico
 
Going Beyond Waste Disposal Regulations
 
Fleetguard Lake Mills completed a Six Sigma 
project on machine coolants used in the 
components manufacturing area of the South 
Plant.  The coolants were tested during two phases 
in two different process areas for “life expectancy,” 
based on the amount of contaminants in the 
coolant.  Testing indicated that only minor amounts 
of oil contaminants were present and the coolant 
could be re-used after it was cleaned.  As a result 
of this project, the Lake Mills plant achieved an 82 
percent reduction in coolant and water 
consumption.  Costs for new coolant and waste 
disposal decreased by more than $120,000 
annually.
Safety and Environmental Awards
In order to recognize outstanding performance, 
the Safety and Environmental Council presents 
awards to those Cummins entities that best 
demonstrated excellence in one or both of these 
areas in 2004. Through their efforts, these sites  •
•
•
•are instrumental in helping Cummins meet the 
commitments of the Company Vision and Mission.  
The awards program has been expanded and in 
2005 will include Cummins worldwide distributors.
The Council evaluated the performance of each 
entity, using the following criteria: 
Benefit to environment and safety 
Level of management and employee 
commitment 
Economic efficiency 
Innovation 
Ability to serve as a model for use by others
The environmental awards focus on projects and 
initiatives that promote sustainability, emissions 
reductions, and the conservation of natural 
resources. 
Entities are recognized at three distinct levels; 
Chairman, Business Unit (BU) and Director.  
The award winners for 2004 were:
Level Environment Winners
Chairman Power Generation, Fridley, 
Minnesota
Business Unit Cummins SLP, Mexico
Fleetguard-Nelson Inc., 
Bloomer, Wisconsin
Tata Cummins Limited, India
Newage AVK-SEG Stamford, 
England•
•
•
•
Director Cummins Brazil Limited
The work practices exhibited by these plants not 
only continue to yield great results and benefits for 
our organization but also are recognized externally 
as plants of excellence.•
•
•
•
•
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldSafety 
Cummins Safety and Environmental Council is 
made up of functional excellence, safety and 
environmental leaders from across the Company’s 
four business units, in addition to Cummins 
corporate safety and environmental affairs 
managers and the Company’s General Counsel.
The Council, which meets quarterly, recommends 
and implements safety and environmental policies 
and strategic initiatives by reviewing best 
practices and Six Sigma projects in these areas.
The Company’s safety measures include both 
goals and targets.  For all Cummins facilities 
worldwide, the Company measures itself against 
the U.S. OSHA standard.  In addition, it measures 
and scores manufacturing facilities against a set of 
criteria established under the Cummins Operating 
System (called the CPE score).  
These criteria look at how well an organization is 
implementing the Cummins safety system, which  
is based on 82 statements, 14 programs and the 
Company’s 10 Cummins Operating System 
practices. Each statement is evaluated on a 1 to 
10 scale and the scores are totaled and placed 
into the following categories:50 points – Level 1
50-69 points – Level 2
70-84 points – Level 3
85-95 points – Excellence level
The corporate goal is zero safety incidents and a 
CPE score of 95.  Targets for 2004/2005 include:
 
Incidence Rate  – 2.0 or a 50 percent  
improvement over 2003 performance.  
Severity Rate   – 8.0 or a 50 percent  
improvement over 2003 performance.  
CPE/COS Score   – Level 3 with a minimum  
score of 70 points. 
The Incidence Rate is calculated by the number of 
OSHA recordable injuries times 200,000 divided 
by the number of exposure hours.  The Severity 
Rate is calculated by the number of lost work days 
times 200,000 divided by the number of exposure 
hours.  
The table on the following page shows how 
Cummins safety performance compares to others 
in the Company’s sector.  
As part of a control plan to evaluate the system, in 
2004 the Company implemented an aggressive 
audit schedule and will use these results to more •
•
•
•Safety
Cummins Safety and Environmental Council, 
which meets quarterly, recommends and 
implements safety and environmental policies 
and strategic initiatives by reviewing best 
practices and Six Sigma projects in these areas.
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
5253Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
formally recognize facilities for safety excellence. 
This process includes the following three steps:
Pre- Audit  – Performed to identify the gap 
between current practices and the system 
required based on the CPE/COS criteria.  
Closing the Gap  – A period of time given to the 
facility/organization to make improvements.  
Formal Audit  – A formal audit is conducted with 
the participation of external auditors, trained in 
Cummins safety reporting processes, to verify 
conformance to safety criteria.  
To date, 46 audits have been conducted, four lead 
auditors have been trained and 20 co-auditors 
have been developed.
Safety award scoring incorporates measures of 
work place safety, as reflected in reduced injuries, 
as well as audit scores against elements of the 
Cummins Safety System itself, based upon the 10 
Cummins Operation System (COS) practices. 
Entities are recognized at three distinct levels; •
•
•Chairman, Business Unit (BU) and Director. 
2004 Corporate Safety Performance Recognition is 
based upon the following performance criteria:
Chairman’s Award
To be eligible for this award a site must achieve as 
a minimum an Incidence Rate of 0 to 0.5 and a 
CPE Level 3 with a score of 95 points.
BU Award
To be eligible for this award a site must achieve as 
a minimum an Incidence Rate of 0.6 to 1.0 and a 
CPE Level 3 with a score of 85 points.
Director Award
To be eligible for this award a site must achieve 
the Corporate Targets such as an Incidence Rate 
of 2.0 and a CPE level 3 with a score of 70 points 
as a minimum. Incidence Rates Comparison
# of cases with
Industry Year Incidence 
Rate
TotalSeverity 
Rate Lost 
Work DaysDay away 
from workJob Transfer 
or RestrictionTotal Other Record -
able Cases
Private Industry 2003 5.30 8.00 1.60 1.20 2.80 2.5
Manufacturing 2003 7.20 7.00 1.70 2.30 4.10 3.1
Industrial 
machinery & 
Equipment2003 6.70 7.00 1.60 1.70 3.30 3.4
Miscellaneous 
manufacturing2003 6.20 7.00 1.70 1.70 3.40 2.8
Best Rates 2003 0.50 0.50 0.20 0.50 0.10 0.30
Cummins 2002 2.09 9.85 0.60 0.53 1.13 0.96
Cummins 2003 1.94 10.98 0.56 0.32 0.88 1.06
Cummins 2004 1.51 9.01 0.54 0.29 0.83 0.68
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldThe award winners for 2004 were: 
Level Safety Winners
Chairman Fleetguard-Nelson Inc., 
Viroqua, Wis.
Business Unit Cummins SLP Mexico Plant 
and Parts Distribution Center
Fleetguard-Nelson Inc., 
Arcadia, Wis.
Fleetguard-Nelson Inc., 
Black River Falls. Wis.
Diesel ReCon SLP, Mexico•
•
•
•
Director Diesel ReCon Memphis 
Plant
Newage AVK-SEG, 
Stamford, England
Fleetguard SLP, Mexico 
Plant and PDC
Daventry Engine Plant, 
England
Darlington Engine Plant, 
England
Cummins Brazil Limited•
•
•
•
•
•
The Safety and Environmental Council evaluated 
the best practice submissions for each BU.
The winners in this category were:
Engine
DRC SLP Dexterity Program
Power Generation
Fridley Safety Improvement Plant
Components
Bloomer STOP Card Awareness Distribution
Cummins SLP Legal Compliance Tracking 
Program
External Safety Recognition
The Tata Holset plant in Dewas, India won second 
place in 2004 in a state-sponsored safety 
competition for workstation ergonomic 
improvements. The five-member team originally 
applied a seven-step problem-solving 
methodology specifically to determine the cause of 
one worker’s chronic back pain.  But the project 
had additional benefit, as it also generated a plan 
to implement ergonomic measures to help all plant 
workers minimize workplace injury.  Tata Holset 
plant workers now benefit from warm-up exercises, 
ergonomics training, workstation flow and re-
design and door automation throughout the plant 
to keep them safe and healthy on the job.
Cummins SLP Mexico received the certification by 
STPS (Mexican Labor Agency from Federal 
Government). The SLP site was certified as a “Safe 
Industry” after a final audit from STPS and after 
presenting evidence of 100 percent fulfillment in all 
Mexican legal requirements. As a result, Cummins 
SLP Mexico will be able to reduce its annual 
insurance premiums.
Environment and Safety: Protecting Our WorldCummins Sustainability Report 2005.
5455Cummins Sustainability Report 2005.
Contacts
Marya M. Rose, Vice President, General Counsel
One American Square, Suite 1800
Indianapolis, IN 46282
Christine M. Vujovich, Vice President,  
Marketing and Environmental Policy
500 Jackson Street
Columbus, IN 47201
Mark D. Land, Director of Public Relations
One American Square, Suite 1800
Indianapolis, IN  46282
Telephone: 317-610-2456
Mark.d.Land@cummins.comAbout this Report
The information in this report is presented in the 
spirit of the guidelines set by the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI).  The aim of the GRI is to develop a 
consistent way for companies around the world to 
voluntarily report on the economic, environmental 
and social components of their business. 
Started in 1997 by the Coalition for Environmentally 
Responsible Economies (CERES), the GRI became 
independent in 2002 and works in collaboration 
with the United Nations Environment Program 
(UNEP) and the UN Secretary-General’s Global 
Compact.
We are proud of the positive impact Cummins 
products and the people who manufacture them 
have had on our society. We look forward to the 
opportunity to make a difference, not just today, 
but for future generations as well.56Cummins Sustainability Report 2005