Cummins  Inc. 2007  Sustainability  ReportCummins  Inc.
Cummins  Inc. 2007  Sustainability  Report
Cummins  Inc.
500 Jackson  Street
Columbus,  IN USA
(812)  377-5000
www.cummins.com
Bulletin  Number  4986066Production Notes 
Designed by: Cummins Corporate Communications 
Written by: Cummins Corporate Communications 
Printing by: The Merrick Printing Company  
Printing Responsibly 
Printed on ChorusArt paper manufactured  
with virgin pulp from FSC certified sources  
and a minimum of 25% post-consumer waste.  
Elemental Chlorine Free and Acid Free processes 
were used to manufacture the paper.2007  Sustainability  Report
I am Cummins.
I know  what  my company  stands  for. I am 
ready  to carry  out its mission  of returning  
value  to our customers,  shareholders  and 
communities—and  to be a good  steward  
of the environment  along  the way.  I bring  
my unique  perspective  to work  every  
day, as do thousands  of my colleagues  
around  the world.  Together  we create  
a rich diversity  of cultures  and  views.  I 
understand  my company’s  vision  includes  
all the communities  we serve  around  the 
globe,  not just my own.  And I believe  my 
success  will contribute  to the success  
of everyone  we serve,  everywhere.  
I am Cummins.  You can depend  on me. About  this Report  
The information  in this report  is presented  
in the spirit  of the guidelines  set by the 
Global  Reporting  Initiative  (GRI).  The aim of 
the GRI is to develop  a consistent  way for 
companies  around  the world  to voluntarily  
report  on the economic,  environmental  and 
social  components  of their  business.  
Started  in 1997  by the Coalition  for 
Environmentally  Responsible  Economies  
(CERES),  the GRI became  independent  in 
2002  and today  works  in collaboration  with 
the United  Nations  Environment  Program  
(UNEP)  and the UN Secretary-General’s  
Global  Compact.  
We are proud  of the positive  impact  
Cummins  products  and the people  who  
manufacture  them  have  on our society.  
We look  forward  to the opportunity  to 
make  a difference,  not just today,  but for 
future  generations  as well.  Contacts
Marya  M. Rose,  Vice  President,  
General  Counsel  
One American  Square,  Suite  1800  
Indianapolis,  IN 46282  
Christine  M. Vujovich,  Vice  President,  
Marketing  and Environmental  Policy  
500 Jackson  Street  
Columbus,  IN 47201  
Mark  D. Land,  Director  of Public  Relations  
One American  Square,  Suite  1800  
Indianapolis,  IN 46282  
Telephone:  317-610-2456  
Mark.D.Land@cummins.comCummins  Inc.2007  Sustainability  Report
Letter  from  the Chairman  
Our Profile
6 Vision  and Strategy
9 Who We Are
12 Commitment  to Stakeholders
18 Economic  Performance
Governance   
22 Corporate  Governance
31 Managing  Risks  
Environment   
34 Managing  Carbon  Emissions
38 Performance  Indicators:  Products  
56 Performance  Indicators:  Facilities  
Safety
74 Providing  a Safe  Working  Environment
Diversity
82 Treating  Others  with Dignity  and Respect
Corporate  Responsibility
90 Making  a Difference
96 Cummins  Foundation  ReportTable  of Contents  Throughout  its history,  Cummins  has been  
committed  to corporate  responsibility  and 
the goal  of improving  the communities  
where  our employees  live and work.  The 
primary  driver  behind  this ongoing  effort  is 
the enthusiasm  of thousands  of individuals  
who have  donated  countless  hours  of their  
personal  time  to projects  and programs  that 
make  people’s  lives  better.
Employees  also have  an ongoing  interest  
in the environment  and global  climate  
change.  While  Cummins  is a leader  in 
developing  new  products  to meet  tough  
emission  standards,  I am equally  impressed  
by the work  people  in our plants  are doing  
to reduce  energy  usage  and focus  on the 
prudent  use of our natural  resources.  Not only is it the right  thing  to do, but it makes  
good  business  sense  for the Company.
Corporate  responsibility  and working  
toward  a cleaner,  healthier,  safer  
environment  are primary  components  of 
Cummins’  commitment  to sustainability.  
We are also very serious  about  our 
obligations  to the Company’s  stakeholders,  
including  shareholders,  employees,  
customers  and suppliers.  We have  had 
a number  of achievements  on their  behalf  
since  our last Sustainability  Report.  
Highlights  of our efforts  include:
t0VSGPVSUITUSBJHIUZFBSPGSFDPSE
financial  performance  and a five-year  
average  annual  total  shareholder  return  
of 58 percent.“Corporate
responsibility
and working  
toward  a cleaner,  
healthier,  safer  
environment
are primary  
components
of Cummins’  
commitment  to 
sustainability.”
Letter  from  
the ChairmanTim Solso
Cummins  Chairman  and CEO
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[t5IFMBVODIPGFYDJUJOHOFXQSPEVDUTJO
including  engines  that meet  tough  global  
emissions  standards.
t&YQBOTJPOPGPVS$VTUPNFS4VQQPSU&YDFMMFODF
initiatives  to all parts  of the corporation.
t3FDPHOJUJPOPGUFDIOPMPHJDBMJOOPWBUJPOGPSNBOZ
Cummins  products.
t"XBSETGPSFYDFMMFODFJODPSQPSBUFHPWFSOBODF
and business  ethics.
t5IFSFWBNQJOHPGPVS$PEFPG#VTJOFTT$POEVDU
for employees.
t"DLOPXMFEHNFOUPGPVSMFBEFSTIJQJOEJWFSTJUZBOE
our employment  of Asians  and Asian-Americans.t3FDPHOJUJPOBTPOFPGUIFUPQDPNQBOJFT
for leaders.
t*ODMVTJPOJOUIF%PX+POFT4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ*OEFY
for the third  straight  year.
Now more  than  ever,  we understand  that operating  
with an eye toward  sustainability  is not only vital to our 
society  and our environment,  it also nourishes  us as a 
company,  enabling  our growth  today  and in the future.  
Tim Solso
$IBJSNBOBOE$IJFG&YFDVUJWF0GGJDFS
Cummins  Inc. 
April 2008
Net Sales  ($ in billions)
2003$6.3
2007$13.05
2006$11.36
2005$9.92
2004$8.44EBIT  ($ in millions)
2003$181
2007$1227
2006$1179
2005$907
2004$543
 3L[[LYMYVT[OL*OHPYTHUThe power  of 
our Company  
is not just 
our products,  
but the ideas,  
energy  and 
passion  of our 
employees.Vision  and Strategy  
Our Vision  
Making  people’s  lives  better  by unleashing  
the power  of Cummins.  
That simple  statement  is the framework  for 
Cummins  Inc. and its employees  worldwide.  
The Company  takes  pride  in manufacturing  
high quality  products  that serve  the needs  
PGPVSDVTUPNFST#VUUIFQPXFSPGPVS
Company  is not just our products,  but 
the ideas,  energy  and passion  of our 
employees.  That  passion  fuels  employee  
energy  and commitment,  making  it possible  
for Cummins  to maintain  a leadership  
position  in the markets  it serves.  
Cummins  also recognizes  that with its 
role as a corporate  leader  comes  the 
responsibility  to make  positive  contributions  
in the communities  in which  employees  
work  and live. Accordingly,  Cummins’  corporate  mission  and values  reflect  its 
desire  to return  value  to its customers,  
employees,  shareholders  and communities.  
Mission
t5PNPUJWBUFQFPQMFUPBDUMJLFPXOFST
working  together  
t5PFYDFFEDVTUPNFSTFYQFDUBUJPOT
by always  being  first to market  with the 
best products  
t5PQBSUOFSXJUIPVSDVTUPNFSTUPFOTVSF
their success
t5PEFNBOEUIBUFWFSZUIJOHXFEPMFBET
to a cleaner,  healthier,  safer  environment  
t5PDSFBUFXFBMUIGPSBMMPVSTUBLFIPMEFST
Our Profile
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[Values
Integrity
We strive  to do what  is right  and what  we say 
we will do. 
Innovation
We will apply  the creative  ingenuity  necessary  to 
make  us better,  faster,  first.  
Deliver  Superior  Results  
0VSHPBMJTUPDPOTJTUFOUMZFYDFFEFYQFDUBUJPOT
Corporate  Responsibility  
We will serve  and improve  the communities  
in which  we live. 
Diversity
We embrace  the diverse  perspectives  of all people  
and honor  both  with dignity  and respect.  
Global  Involvement  
We seek  a world  view  and to act without  boundaries.  Strategic  Principles  
Cummins  has five key elements  to its business  
strategy.  This strategy  has not changed  in 
recent  years.  What  has changed  is our improved  
performance  and our continued  ability  to deliver  
on commitments.  
Being  a low cost  producer  
Cummins  realizes  that to successfully  compete  in 
the marketplace,  it must  offer  the best  products  
at the best  prices.  To do that,  we leverage  our 
innovative  technology,  economies  of scale,  global  
presence  and customer  partnerships.  
5IF4JY4JHNBRVBMJUZQSPHSBNMBVODIFEJO
is an integral  part of that strategy.  Since  the 
program’s  inception,  Cummins  has completed  
BMNPTU4JY4JHNBQSPKFDUTBOEiCFMUTw
IBWFCFFOUSBJOFEJO4JY4JHNBUPPMT
 6\Y7YVMPSLThe Company  estimates  this program  
generates  savings  of approximately  2 
percent  of annual  revenue  per year,  
while  infusing  quality  into every  process.  
Cummins  also has expanded  the program  
to include  processes  with customers,  
suppliers,  distributors  and corporate  social  
responsibility  with positive  results.  
Cummins  pursues  cost  leadership  in other  
ways:  through  global  sourcing,  global  
research  and development  access,  sharing  
development  costs  with original  equipment  
manufacturer  (OEM)  partners  and technical  
productivity,  including  the use of computer  
design  and modeling  instead  of building  
expensive  physical  prototypes.  
Profitable  growth  
The Company  will continue  to focus  its 
growth  initiatives  on related  businesses  
where  it can use its existing  investments  
in products  or technology,  leading  brand  
names  or market  presence  to establish  
a competitive  advantage.  The focus  is 
on ventures  that complement  its capital-
intensive  and cyclical  core  businesses,  for 
example,  the production  of light-duty  diesel  
engines  in an existing  Cummins  facility  that 
will introduce  Cummins  to a new  consumer  
customer  base.  
Creating  shareholder  value  
Return  on capital—specifically  return  on 
average  net assets  (ROANA)  and return  on 
equity  (ROE)—is  our primary  measure  of 
financial  performance.  Each  of our business  
segments  uses  ROANA  targets  and the 
Company,  as a whole,  has an ROE  target.  Cummins  has dramatically  improved  
its return  on capital  in recent  years;  for 
example,  since  1999  (the last peak  in the 
heavy-duty  truck  cycle),  ROE  has increased  
from 10 percent  to 20.8  percent  in 2007.  
ROANA  in 2007  was 28.9  percent.
Complementary  businesses  that 
work  together  to create  value  
Increasingly,  Cummins  looks  for ways  
to leverage  the synergies  among  its four 
business  segments.  These  synergies  
capitalize  on shared  capabilities  including  
technology,  distribution  systems,  common  
customers  (cross  selling),  joint venture  
partners  for global  growth  and cost  
reduction  through  the larger  scale  of 
shared  services.  
Creating  the right  environment  
At Cummins,  creating  the right  environment  
for success  means  an inclusive,  learning  
environment  that is reinforced  by a 
performance  ethic  that attracts,  develops  
and retains  high-quality  talent.  We 
measure  our success  through  strategic  
skill and competency  mapping,  leadership  
development  outcomes  and participation   
in tailored  individual  development  and 
training  programs.“On any given   
day, there  are  
approximately   
12,000  people  in  
our workforce   
involved  in  
Six Sigma   
projects  –  
helping  us work   
smarter,  produce   
better  products   
and making  our  
customers  more   
successful.”  
George   
Strodtbeck
8                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability Reportoriginal  equipment  manufacturers  (OEMs)  and 
establishing  ourselves  as a global  technology  leader  
in a constantly  changing  emissions  environment.  
All Cummins  businesses  and products  are united  
under  the Cummins  name,  with the Company’s  
earliest  historical  colors,  red and black,  representing  
JUBMPOHXJUIUIFMBSHF$VNNJOTi$wJODPOUSBTUJOH
white  or black.  
Our brand  is the sum  total  of all our years  in 
business.  From  the beginning,  when  the Company’s  
founders  first stood  behind  the products  they  sold  
to the ongoing  growth  of our diversified  business,  
Cummins  has maintained  a reputation  for integrity.  
In terms  of a brand,  that translates  into a single  
vision:  dependability.  We want  stakeholders  to 
know  they  can depend  on Cummins.  And we want  
employees  to be able  to unify  around  the Cummins  
brand  to create  value  and a competitive  advantage.  Who We Are
Cummins  roots  are planted  in soil nourished  by 
innovation,  persistence  and a commitment  to 
community.  Founded  in Columbus,  Ind.,  in 1919  as 
the Cummins  Engine  Company,  for its namesake  
Clessie  Lyle Cummins,  the fledgling  firm was among  
the first to see the commercial  potential  of an 
unproven  engine  technology  invented  two decades  
earlier  by Rudolph  Diesel.
The Company  has grown  to be a global  power  
leader.  Today,  half of Cummins  37,800  employees  
and half the Company’s  sales  are from  outside  the 
United  States.  
Since  the early  part of the decade,  we have  reshaped  
UIF$PNQBOZJOUPXIBUXFBSFDBMMJOHBi/FX
$VNNJOTwoBDPNQBOZUIBUJTMFTTDZDMJDBMNPSF
diversified,  more  results-oriented  and committed  to 
turning  a greater  share  of its sales  into profits.  We 
have adapted  to changes  in the competitive  landscape  
by vertically  integrating  through  partnerships  with Cummins  employees  share  information  
about  their  award-winning  projects  at the 
annual  Six Sigma  Expo.
 6\Y7YVMPSLAs of the end  
of 2007,  
Cummins  was  
participating  
in 57 joint  
ventures  in  
18 countries.Cummins  is at its core  a family  of four 
interrelated,  yet diversified  business  
segments  that create  or enhance  value  
as a result  of those  relationships  and 
doing  business  with one other.  These  four 
business  segments  are Engine,  Power  
Generation,  Components  and Distribution.  
Cummins  products  can be found  in  
nearly  every  type  of vehicle,  from  the 
heavy-duty  diesel-powered  trucks  that 
travel  the world’s  highways,  to tractors   
that till the soil, large  trucks  that carry  
natural  resources  from  the mine  and 
ships  that travel  the world’s  waterways.  
Cummins-built  generators  supply  both  
prime	and	auxiliary	power	around	the	
globe.  Filters  and related  components   
help engines  run cleaner  and more  
efficiently.  A network  of distributors   
provide  repair  and maintenance  service   
for customers  worldwide.  
Cummins  Engine
Cummins  Engine  manufactures  and 
markets  a complete  line of diesel  
and natural  gas-powered  engines  for 
on-highway  and off-highway  use.  Its 
markets  include  heavy-  and medium-
duty truck,  bus,  recreational  vehicles,  fire 
truck  and emergency  vehicles,  light-duty  
automotive  and a number  of industrial  
applications,  including  power  generation,  
agricultural,  construction,  mining,  marine,   
oil and gas,  rail and government  
equipment.  Cummins  also provides  a 
full range  of new  parts  and services  and 
remanufactured  parts  and engines  through  
an	extensive	distribution 	network.
Cummins  engines  range  in size from   
31 to 3,500  horsepower  and from  1.4 liters  
to 91 liters.Cummins  Power  Generation
Cummins  Power  Generation  is a global  
provider  of power  generation  systems,  
components  and services  in standby  
power,  distributed  power  generation,  
as	well	as	auxiliary	power	in	mobile	
applications  to meet  the needs  of a 
diversified  customer  base.  Cummins  Power  
Generation  also provides  a full range  of 
services  and solutions,  including  long-term  
operation  and maintenance  contracts  and 
turnkey  and temporary  power  solutions.
Cummins  Power  Generation  products  
include  diesel  and alternative-fueled  
electrical  generator  sets from  2.5 to  
2,700  kilowatts,  alternators  from   
0.6 kilovolt-amps  to 30,000  kilovolt-amps,  
automatic  transfer  switches  from  40 amps  
to 4,000  amps,  paralleling  switchgear  and 
generator  set controls.
Cummins  Components
Cummins  Filtration  designs,  manufactures  
and distributes  air, fuel, hydraulic  and lube  
filtration,	chemicals 	and	exhaust	system	 
technology  products  for diesel  and gas-
powered  equipment.
Cummins  Turbo  Technologies  designs   
and manufactures  turbochargers  and 
related  products  on a global  scale  for  
diesel  engines  above  3 liters.
Cummins  Emission  Solutions  develops  
and supplies  Cummins  and other  engine  
manufacturers 	with	catalytic	exhaust	
systems  and related  products  for the 
medium-  and heavy-duty  diesel  engine  
markets.	The	exhaust	systems	include	
packaging 	of	catalytic	exhaust	systems,	
engineered  aftertreatment  components  
and system  integration  services  for engine  
10                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability Reportmore  than  70 countries  and territories.  Company-
owned  distributors  are located  in key geographic  
markets  such  as China,  India,  Russia,  Japan,  
Korea,  South  East  Asia,  Australia,  Europe,  Africa,  
the Middle  East  and Latin  America.  
Joint  Ventures  
Cummins  has entered  into a number  of joint 
venture  agreements  and alliances  with business  
partners  and affiliates  in various  areas  of the world  
UPJODSFBTFNBSLFUQFOFUSBUJPOFYQBOEQSPEVDU
lines,  streamline  supply  chain  management  and 
develop  new  technologies.   As of the end of 2007,  
Cummins  was participating  in 57 joint ventures  in 
18 countries.NBOVGBDUVSFSTBTXFMMBTDBUBMZUJDFYIBVTUQSPEVDUT
GPSSFUSPGJUPGFOHJOFTJOUIFFYJTUJOHQPQVMBUJPO
Cummins  Fuel Systems  designs,  develops  and 
manufactures  new  fuel systems  and remanufactures  
electronic  control  modules  in the United  States.  In 
.FYJDPJUBTTFNCMFTOFX$VNNJOTGVFMTZTUFNT
and also remanufactures  Cummins  fuel systems  as 
well as fuel systems  from  other  manufacturers.  This 
business  serves  engines  ranging  from  8 to 78 liters.  
Cummins  Distribution  
Cummins  Distribution  drives  a comprehensive  global  
distribution  strategy  and channel  management.  
Capitalizing  on synergies  in parts  and services,  this 
business  helps  Cummins  by providing  outstanding  
support  to our customers,  while  growing  a less 
cyclical  and less capital  intensive  business.
Distribution  operates  within  this network  with 
17 company-owned  and 15 joint venture  
EJTUSJCVUPSTJOBQQSPYJNBUFMZMPDBUJPOTJODriver  Dave  Evans,  mechanic  Jiggee  Johnson,  
with Don  and Clessie  Cummins  (in suits),  
prepare  to qualify  for the 1934  Indy  500
 6\Y7YVMPSLCummins  recognizes  that its duty  goes  
beyond  the bottom  line. While  the Company  
must  deliver  value  to shareholders,  it also 
strives  to responsibly  and effectively  serve  
all stakeholders  – customers,  employees,  
business  partners  and the communities  in 
which  it operates.  
The Company  actively  engages  all 
stakeholders,  seeking  feedback  and doing  
its best  to keep  them  informed  of Cummins’  
actions  and performance.  The Company’s  
policies  reflect  a commitment  to financial  
excellence,  environmental  stewardship,  
workplace  equity,  corporate  responsibility  
and fair competition.  
Our activities  related  to the community   
are detailed  in the Corporate  Responsibility  
section  of this book,  which  begins  on  
Page  90.
Customers  
Cummins  is dedicated  to exceeding  the 
expectations  of its customers,  making  
products  and providing  support  that give 
customers  a competitive  advantage  in  
the marketplace.  
Cummins  works  with key customers  
during  development  and production  to 
ensure  that products  are manufactured  to 
the customers’  satisfaction.  Increasingly,  
Cummins  is using  Six Sigma  tools  to help  
its customers  and suppliers  reduce  costs  
and improve  quality.  
The Company’s  goal  for using  Six Sigma  
with customers  is to create  the shared  
belief  that Cummins  cares  as much  about  the customer’s  business  as the customers  
themselves.  Cummins  currently  has 
approximately  220 active  customer-focused  
Six Sigma  projects  and has completed  
nearly  640 projects  since  2005.
 
In some  cases,  Cummins  has sent   
Six Sigma  “belts”  to work  directly  with  
a customer  to solve  a specific  challenge.   
In other  instances,  Cummins  has trained  
and provided  support  to belts  working   
for our customers.  Some  recent   
examples  of Cummins’  customer-focused  
Six Sigma  efforts:
•	Reducing 	a	customer’s 	soot	filter	field	
issues  without  an adverse  effect  on the 
aftertreatment  system.
•	Increasing 	the	fuel	filter	change	interval	
on certain  heavy-duty  trucks  from   
30,500  miles  to 34,500  miles.
•	Increasing 	a	co-generation 	plant’s	
average  monthly  availability  to  
90 percent  and meeting  all emissions  
requirements  of the operating  permit.
Customer  Care   
One of the biggest  challenges  for Cummins  
in our extremely  competitive  global  business  
environment  is becoming  and staying  the 
first choice  of customers.  That  is why 
Cummins  launched  its Customer  Support  
Excellence  (CSE)  initiative.  
As a company,  we realize  it is not enough  
to develop  the most  innovative  technology  
or build  the most  dependable  engines.  Our 
customers  have  to believe,  and we must  
show  them,  we care  as much  about  their  Commitment  to Stakeholders  
“Cummins  
can create  an 
advantage  over  
our competitors  
when  we 
understand  
our customer’s  
feelings  
and provide  
a positive  
experience  for 
him or her.”   
Jose 
Parra-Morzan
12                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportThe Dodge  Ram  
3500  heavy-duty  
pickup  achieves  
2010  emission  
standards.
The Dodge  Ram:  
An Environmental  Winner
The Cummins  Dodge  Ram  pickup  heavy-duty  engine  received  top 
honors  among  the 2007  winners  of Chrysler’s  environmental  awards.  
Cummins  was a winner  in the Product  Related  Environmental  
Protection  category.
In 2007,  new  heavy-duty  diesel  engine  emission  regulations  took  
effect  in the United  States  that required  the diesel-powered  Dodge  
3BNUPNBLFESBNBUJDSFEVDUJPOTJOPYJEFTPGOJUSPHFO	/0Y
BOE
particulate  matter  (PM)  emissions.   The new  2007  Dodge  Ram  heavy-
duty engine  uses  a diesel  particulate  filter to virtually  eliminate  PM 
FNJTTJPOTBOEB/0YBETPSCFSDBUBMZTUUPSFEVDF/0YCZBTNVDI
as 90 percent  from  2006  levels.
*OQSFTFOUJOHUIFBXBSE$ISZTMFSOPUFEUIFGPMMPXJOHi8PSLJOHJO
a close  partnership,  Chrysler  and Cummins  achieved  remarkable  
SFTVMUTJONFFUJOHBOEFYDFFEJOHCPUISFHVMBUPSZSFRVJSFNFOUTBOE
customer  needs.   The new  Dodge  Ram  2500  and 3500  are the first 
WFIJDMFTUPBDIJFWFUIFTUSJOHFOU/0YAQIBTFJOFNJTTJPOTUBOEBSEJO
all 50 States,  and to do so three  years  early.   The 6.7-liter  Cummins  
Turbo  Diesel  maintains  fuel efficiency  as compared  to the 2006  
model.   It also maintains  the diesel  engine’s  30 percent  fuel economy  
TBWJOHTPWFSHBTPMJOFFOHJOFTBOEUIVTMPXFS$0FNJTTJPOTw
 6\Y7YVMPSLCummins  uses  
a voice  of 
the customer  
approach
to drive  
improvement,
and we strive  to 
execute  critical  
customer  work  
flawlessly.success  as they  do. Cummins  uses  the 
voice  of the customer  to drive  improvement  
BOEXFTUSJWFUPFYFDVUFDSJUJDBMDVTUPNFS
work  flawlessly.  
Each  business  unit has a leader  responsible  
for developing  projects  to meet  the needs  
of its customers.  Also,  each  business  unit is 
charged  with developing  customer-focused  
4JY4JHNBQSPKFDUTUIBUUBDLMFUIFJTTVFT
and problems  facing  individual  customers.  
Customers  are noticing.  In fact,  Knight  
Transportation,  a key national  trucking  
company  in the southwestern  U.S.,  asked  
UPKPJO$VNNJOTJOUIF$PNQBOZT4JY
Sigma  training.  Working  together,  Knight  
and Cummins  have  been  able  to focus  on 
BTQFDJGJDDVTUPNFSOFFEoFMJNJOBUJPOPG
billing  errors  and instituting  more  reliable  
QSPDFTTFToUIBUTBWFEUIFDVTUPNFSNPSF
than $300,000  a year.
Cummins  has developed  several  
corporate-wide  initiatives  to improve  the 
level of customer  support  across  the 
Company.  Notable  is the CSE  training,  
which  includes  a different  approach  to 
meeting  customer  needs  by looking  at an 
issue  through  the customer’s  perspective.
Since  the program  started,  more  than  
19,000  employees  have  received  CSE  
awareness  training  in 17 different  countries,  
with 57 groups  implementing  customer-
focused  projects.  We are now  moving  
beyond  Cummins  employees  and are 
reaching  out to independent  distributors.  
#ZGPDVTJOHPONBLJOHNFBTVSBCMF
improvements  in the things  that matter  
most  to customers,  we move  closer  to 
our objective  of becoming  the first choice  
of customers.  The Cummins  Operating  System  
The Cummins  Operating  System  (COS)  
helps  develop  common  practices  and 
approaches  designed  to improve  customer  
satisfaction  and profitability.  The COS  
is designed  to reduce  waste,  improve  
quality,  increase  responsiveness  and 
develop  people.  
The COS  consists  of 10 operating  practices  
that are common  across  the Company.  
It is supported  by nine common  functions,  
FBDIXJUIB'VODUJPOBM&YDFMMFODF
GSBNFXPSL5IF'VODUJPOBM&YDFMMFODF
framework  at Cummins  provides  standards,  
measures,  skills  requirements  and an 
individual  work  plan  so each  function  in 
the Company  can provide  service  or 
support  at world-class  levels.  Employees  
are trained  on the COS  and Functional  
&YDFMMFODFBQQSPBDIFTBOEUIFJSJNQPSUBODF
to Cummins  future  success.  
"LFZBTQFDUPGUIF'VODUJPOBM&YDFMMFODF
approach  at Cummins  involves  promoting  
leadership  across  all business  units  and 
groups.  Leaders  at Cummins  are measured  
on their  ability  to: 
t%SJWFUIFPSHBOJ[BUJPOUPXBSEUIF7JTJPO
by accomplishing  the Mission
t-JWFBOEGPTUFSUIF$VNNJOTDPSFWBMVFT
of integrity,  innovation,  delivering  superior  
results,  diversity,  global  involvement  and 
corporate  responsibility
t'PDVTPODVTUPNFSTVDDFTT
and deliver  results  
t$SFBUFBOFOWJSPONFOUJOXIJDIQFPQMF
can develop  and flourish,  and where  
championship  teams  flourish.
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[
In 2006,  Cummins  began  conducting  COS  
assessments.  These  assessments  allow  us to 
demonstrate  that the 10 COS  practices  are 
embedded  in our key processes.  They  also allow  
us to identify  improvement  opportunities  and 
develop  an improvement  plan  to close  the gaps.  
Employees
Cummins  has a long  history  of being  an employer  of 
choice.  That  reputation  continues  to this day and is 
reinforced  by the Company’s  competitive  salary  and 
benefits  offerings,  training  and career  development  
opportunities  and positive  work  environment.  
Cummins  employees  enjoy  a full slate  of benefits,  
including  innovative  and competitively  priced  
health-care  coverage;  pension  and retirement  
programs;  generous  tuition  reimbursement  benefits  
for continuing  education;  access  to world-class  
DIJMEEFWFMPQNFOUDFOUFSTGMFYJCMFXPSLTDIFEVMFT
employee  assistance  programs  and more.  These  
benefits  also were  made  available  to non-spousal  
domestic  partners  in 2000.  
Cummins  places  a premium  on its workers  treating  
one another  with respect  and dignity.  Treatment  of 
others  at work  is a key component  of the Company’s  
$PEFPG#VTJOFTT$POEVDUBOEJTUIFTVCKFDUPG
mandatory  training  for all new  hires.  Training  and 
career  development  opportunities  also play a crucial  
role in Cummins’  success  and in the Company’s  
efforts  to attract  and retain  a talented  workforce.  
All new  hires  must  attend  mandatory  training  courses  
covering  treatment  of others,  diversity,  information  
BOEQIZTJDBMTFDVSJUZTFYVBMIBSBTTNFOUJTTVFTUIF
Cummins  performance  management  system  and 
the Cummins  Operating  System.  In addition,  the 
Company’s  Powertrain  program  offers  on-line  training  
on a variety  of subjects,  ranging  from  business  
software  applications  to project  management  
skills to interpersonal  and communications  skills  to 
presentation  and leadership  skills.  Employees’  performance  and development  plans  
are reviewed  through  the Cummins  performance  
management  system  called  OnTrack.  Through  
OnTrack,  employees  work  with their  supervisors  to 
create  challenging  work  plans  that reflect  the goals  
of the Company  and its individual  performance  cells.  
Employees  receive  formal  feedback  from  supervisors  
and peers  quarterly,  in addition  to a comprehensive  
annual  evaluation.  
Cummins  also offers  its employees  opportunities  
for growth  within  the Company  as their  skills  and 
interests  dictate.  Cummins  has a strong  history  
PGiHSPXJOHJUTPXOwMFBEFSTBOEFNQMPZFFT
regularly  move  freely  from  one part of the Company  
to another.  
Employees  are encouraged  to seek  out new  
challenges  and to continually  broaden  their  skill sets.  
High-potential  employees  are identified  and offered  
comprehensive  leadership  training  as part of the 
Company’s  ongoing  efforts  to develop  its leaders  
from within.  Nekedia  Gaillard,  Assembly  Technician,  
Cummins  Turbo  Technologies
6\Y7YVMPSLCummins  has 
launched  a 
focused  effort  
to ensure  the 
Company’s
most  critical  
suppliers  are 
committed  to 
improvement
through
Six Sigma.Business  Partners  
Cummins  has working  relationships  with 
distributors  and suppliers  across  the world.  
Similarly,  the Company  acts  as a supplier  
of components  to a number  of equipment  
manufacturers,  and has been  able  to build  
strong  bonds  with its business  partners.  
The Company  is proud  of its efforts  to earn  
iQSFGFSSFETVQQMJFSwTUBUVTXJUIDVTUPNFST
'PSFYBNQMF&JDIFS.PUPST-JNJUFE
recently  recognized  Tata  Holset,  one of our 
joint ventures  in India  that manufactures  
UVSCPDIBSHFSTBT#FTU4VQQMJFSGPS
outstanding  contribution  to supply  chain  
management  in the category  of proprietary  
items.  Judging  criteria  for best  vendor  
included  parts  per million  (PPM)  level,  
quality  certification,  adherence  to schedule,  
on-time  delivery,  cost  reduction,  response  
time and service  support.  Suppliers
Cummins  has launched  a focused  effort  
to ensure  that the Company’s  most  critical  
suppliers  are committed  to improvement  
UISPVHI4JY4JHNB$SJUJDBMTVQQMJFSTUP
$VNNJOTNVTUNFFUQBSUJDVMBS4JY4JHNB
performance  requirements.  Cummins’  
quality  is heavily  dependent  on the quality  
PGPVSTVQQMJFSTQSPEVDUT0VSFYQFSJFODF
JTUIBU4JY4JHNBJTBSFMJBCMFBQQSPBDIUP
quality  improvement.  
Columbus  Components  Group,  a minority-
owned  Cummins  supplier  located  in 
Columbus,  Indiana,  has been  recognized  
GPSJUTVTFPG4JY4JHNBUPPMTUPBTTFTT
quality  control  and create  an overall  quality  
improvement  plan.  Columbus  Components  
(SPVQDMPTFEJUTGJSTU4JY4JHNBQSPKFDU
which  resulted  in a significant  improvement  
in quality  for components  supplied  to the Five-Year  Total  Shareholder  Return  at Year-End  2007
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[17Cummins  Jamestown  Engine  Plant.  This improvement  
was a significant  factor  in awarding  Columbus  
Components  Group  additional  business  for the model  
year 2007  Dodge  Ram  pickup  engine.  
Shareholders  
Returning  value,  in terms  of profits,  rising  stock  prices  
and dividends,  is a primary  measure  of a company’s  
commitment 	to	its	shareholders. 	Beyond	returning	
financial  value,  Cummins  believes  it owes  investors  a 
transparent  window  into its financial  workings.  
Cummins  goes  to great  lengths  to keep  the 
investing  community  up-to-date  on its performance  
and	future	outlook.	Top	executives 	hold	quarterly	
teleconferences  with industry  analysts  to discuss  
financial  results.  Company  representatives  also host  
or attend  a number  of investor  conferences  during  the 
year,  and meet  or talk directly  with individual  analysts  
and investors  on nearly  a daily  basis.  Cummins’  positive  corporate  governance  practices  
on behalf  of the shareholders  include  the following:
•	The	full	board	of	directors	is	elected	annually.
•	The	audit,	compensation 	and	nominating 	
committees  are made  up of independent   
outside  directors.
•	The	company	has	a	designated 	lead	director.
•	Executive 	and	directors	are	subject	to	stock	
ownership  guidelines.
•	All	stock-based 	incentive	plans	have	been	
approved  by shareholders.
Our ProfileWe continuously  
work  with  
customers  to 
develop  new  
products  to 
improve  the 
performance  of 
their vehicles,  
equipment  or 
systems  at 
competitive   
cost levels.Cummins’  financial  performance  in 2007  
was	the	best	in	its	history.	Sales	exceeded 	
$13	billion	–	a	15	percent	increase	over	
2006.	Earnings	before	interest	and	taxes	
were	$1.2	billion	–	or	9.4	percent	of	sales.	
Net earnings  were  $739  million,  compared  
to $715  million  for the previous  year.
This fourth  straight  year  of record  sales  
and profits  reinforces  our value  promise  
to shareholders.  As of the end of 2007,  
Cummins  investors  have  enjoyed  a five-year  
average  annual  total  return  of 58 percent.
Along  with this outstanding  performance,  
we have  increased  our dividends  by  
67 percent  and purchased  almost   
$500  million  in stock  over  the last two 
years.  In December,  we announced  plans  
to buy back  another  $500  million  worth  of 
shares.	We	also	executed	a	pair	of	two- for-one  stock  splits,  one during  2007   
and the other  in early  2008.  
Cummins  has benefited  from  strong  
demand  across  a number  of our more  
cyclical  markets,  and our focus  on 
execution 	has	delivered	excellent	bottom-
line results.  We are seeing  margin  
expansion 	and	profitable	market	share	
growth  with disciplined  pricing,  a focus  
on cost  reduction  and superior  product  
performance 	in	existing	and	emerging	
markets.  And we are building  a core  base  
of stable,  diversified  earnings  that will 
continue  to provide  increased  stability  in  
our financial  performance.  
Our	extended	effort	to	build	relationships 	
and infrastructure  in China  and India  and 
other  emerging  markets  has positioned  us 
to capture  significant  growth  opportunities  Economic  Performance2003 2004 2005 2006 2007$6.3$8.44$9.92$11.36$13.05Net Sales  ($ in billions) Diluted  Earnings  
per Share  ($)
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007$0.32$1.85$2.75$3.55$3.70
EBIT  as a Percentage  
of Sales  (%)
2003 2004 2005 2006 20072.96.49.110.4
9.4
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007$276$749$911$1,106 $1,060Cash  from  Operating  
Activities  ($ in millions)2003 2004 2005 2006 2007$6.3$8.44$9.92$11.36$13.05Net Sales  ($ in billions) Diluted  Earnings  
per Share  ($)
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007$0.32$1.85$2.75$3.55$3.70
EBIT  as a Percentage  
of Sales  (%)
2003 2004 2005 2006 20072.96.49.110.4
9.4
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007$276$749$911$1,106 $1,060Cash  from  Operating  
Activities  ($ in millions)
18                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportJV income  is recorded  as Investee  Equity,  Royalty  and Other  Income   
in regulatory  filings.   
EBIT is a non-GAAP  measure,  defined  as earnings  before  interest   
expense,  income  taxes  and minority  interests.
The return  on equity  calculation  is a non-GAAP  measure  as it excludes  
pension  and other  post-retirement  benefit  amounts  in shareholders’  equity.
in those  markets.   Several  new  product  platforms  
also offer  us great  profitable  growth  opportunities  
across  all of our business  units.  However,  our future  
success  is directly  dependent  on our ability  to build  
the infrastructure  and operating  system,  create  
excellent	customer 	support	worldwide 	and	recruit	
the diverse  talent  necessary  to get this done.  
Detailed  financial  information  can be found  in the 
Investors  and Media  section  of the Company’s  
website,  www.cummins.com.  The Cummins’  Fact  
Book,	also	found	on	the	web	site,	provides	a	brief	
summary  of the Company  and contains  income  
statement  and balance  sheet  trends  for the past   
10 years.  Competitive  Strengths
We believe  the following  competitive  strengths  
are instrumental  to our success:
Leading  Brand.   Our product  portfolio  
includes  products  and services  marketed  and 
branded  under  various  trademarks  and trade  
names,  primarily  Cummins,  throughout  the world.
During  2006,  we successfully  re-branded  our 
major  operating  business  units  to reflect  the 
Cummins  name  and brand  to further  our overall  
branding  strategy.   In part,  as a result  of this 
investment,  we also are gaining  additional  
recognition  across  our markets.
Customers  and Partners.   To maintain  
technology  leadership  and a global  presence  in 
a cost-effective  manner,  we have  established  
strategic  alliances  with a number  of our leading  2007$3.70JV Income  ($ in millions)
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007$74$120$131$140$205
Return  on Equity  (%)
2003 2004 2005 2006 20073.821.325.7 25.1
20.8
2007$1,060
19 Our ProfileLeading  Technology.   We have  an 
established  reputation  for delivering  high-
quality,  technologically  advanced  products.  
We continuously  work  with customers  
to develop  new  products  to improve  the 
performance  of their  vehicles,  equipment  
or systems  at competitive  cost  levels.  We 
are a leader  in developing  technologies  
to reduce  diesel  engine  emissions,  a key 
concern  of our customers  and regulators  
around  the world.  
We were  able  to meet  the EPA’s  2007  
heavy-duty  on-highway  emissions  
standards  that went  into effect  on  
January  1, 2007,  and we announced   
in January  2007  that our Dodge  Ram  
6.7-liter  Turbo  Diesel  engine  meets  the 
EPA’s  2010  emissions  standards  a full 
three  years  ahead  of the requirements.   
We have  also developed  low-emission,  
high-performance  natural  gas engines  
as an alternative-fuel  option  for the 
on-highway,  industrial  and power  
generation  markets.  Our technology  
leadership  in filtration,  exhaust  
aftertreatment,  air handling  and fuel 
systems  allows  us to develop  integrated  
product  solutions  for the on-highway,  off-
highway  and power  generation  markets.customers.  These  partnerships  provide  us 
with a knowledge  and understanding  of our 
customers’  technology  and business  needs  
and enable  us to develop  products  and 
services  that better  meet  their  requirements  
at lower  costs.  
For example,  we have  both  customer  and  
supplier  arrangements  with Komatsu,  Ltd.,  
including  manufacturing  joint ventures  and a 
product  development  joint venture  that has 
led to the development  of several  engines.  
We are also the exclusive  supplier  of 
engines  for Komatsu  mining  equipment.
In addition,  we have  been  the exclusive  
diesel  engine  supplier  to Chrysler  for its 
Dodge  Ram  truck  since  1988.  We have  
long-term  agreements  with Volvo  and 
International  Truck  and Engine  Corporation  
for the supply  of heavy-duty  truck  engines  
and with PACCAR  for the supply  of both  
heavy-duty  and medium-duty  engines.  
These  agreements  afford  us long-term  price  
stability  and eliminate  certain  dealer  and 
end-user  discounts,  while  offering  closer  
integration  on product  development.  
Global  Presence.   We have  a strong  
global  presence  including  a worldwide  
distribution  system,  manufacturing  and 
engineering  facilities  and a network  of global  
supply  sources.  Our worldwide  presence  
has enabled  us to take  advantage  of growth  
opportunities  in international  markets,  with 
sales  outside  the U.S.  growing  from  43 
percent  of total  consolidated  net sales  in 
2000  to 54 percent  of total  consolidated   
net sales  in 2007.  “We rely 
on our core  
values  to guide  
us through  
difficult  issues,  
including  the 
daily  challenges  
of conducting  
business  in a 
complex,  global  
marketplace.”
Inness  Liu
20                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportLeading  Technology;  Driven  by Zeus
Cummins  has produced  dependable  marine  engines  since  the 1920s,  but it recently  
took an innovative  new approach  when,  as part of a joint venture,  it created  an 
advanced  propulsion  system  called  Zeus.  
Zeus delivers  up to 30 percent  better  fuel economy,  up to 550 horsepower,  a proven  
level of safety  and unsurpassed  handling  at high and low speeds.  The system  was  
15	years	in	development 	at	Cummins 	MerCruiser 	Diesel,	Brunswick 	and	Mercury	Marine.	
Zeus incorporates  a familiar  looking,  yet totally  new pod with counter-rotating  stainless  
steel,	rear-facing 	propellers 	and	a	through-hub 	exhaust.	Independent 	vectoring	for	each	
pod delivers  dramatically  improved  high-speed  handling.  Docking  is easier  than  ever.  
These  steerable  pods,  along  with an advanced  joystick  control  system,  deliver  precise  
turning	and	tight	maneuvering, 	keeping	a	Zeus-equipped 	vessel	on	a	fixed	heading	
within  a tight  area,  even  in strong  currents  and windy  conditions.  An intelligent  station-
keeping  system  reads  GPS  coordinates  and keeps  the boat  in position  without  the 
captain  having  to touch  the wheel  or controls.
And safety  is engineered  in the product.  If the pod strikes  debris  or bottom,  the gear  
case and skeg  (the fin at the stern  of the boat)  protect  the propellers.  In the event  of a 
catastrophic  collision  above  the depth  of the keel,  the gear  case  is designed  to shear  
away  and remain  water  tight  so  there  is no compromise  of hull integrity.  
“Zeus-powered 	boats	track	true	and	respond	instantly	to	helm	commands,” 	 
said Motor  Boating  magazine  in its 2007  review.  The first orders  for the system   
were taken  early  in 2007.  The Zeus   
highly  advanced  
propulsion  
system  
offers  up to 
30 percent  
better  fuel 
economy  and 
unsurpassed  
handling  at 
high and low 
speeds.  In 
addition,  a
Zeus-equipped  
vessel  delivers  
precise  turning  
and tight  
maneuvering  
even in strong  
currents  
and windy  
conditions.
21 Our ProfileGoing  back  to 
its earliest  days,  
Cummins  has 
been  as much  
about  people  as 
products.Governance
Over the past  nearly  90 years,  Cummins  
has developed  a reputation  as a company  
that places  a premium  on the well-being  of 
its employees  and that strives  to improve  
the communities  in which  it operates.
Going  back  to its earliest  days,  when  the 
founding  family  kept  the company  afloat  
during  difficult  times  because  it felt a 
responsibility  to provide  jobs  to the young  
men of Columbus,  Indiana,  Cummins  has 
been  as much  about  people  as products.  
That legacy  was built by longtime  former  
Cummins  Chairman  J. Irwin  Miller  and is 
carried  out today  through  the leadership  
PG$VNNJOTTFOJPSFYFDVUJWFTBOE
38,700  employees  worldwide.
Cummins’  management  and its 
employees  around  the world  continue  
to work  as partners  today,  building  
leading-edge  products  in clean,  safe Corporate  Governance
environments,  while  working  together  
UPTUSFOHUIFOUIFDPNNVOJUZi$SFBUJOH
BHSFBUQMBDFUPXPSLwJTPOFPG$VNNJOT
strategic  business  principles.  At the core  
of that approach  are the Company’s  
efforts  to engage  employees  and other  
stakeholders  in understanding  and living  
the Company’s  values,  as well as playing  
an active  role in pursuing  continuous  
improvement  across  the Company.
That engagement  and commitment  
to ethical  behavior  takes  many  forms,  
some  of which  are discussed  in the 
pages  that follow.
Cummins’  Revised  
Code  of Business  Conduct
$VNNJOTVQEBUFEJUT$PEFPG#VTJOFTT
Conduct  in early  2008  for the first time  
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[since  early  this decade,  with an emphasis  on making  
the Code  easier  to find,  read  and understand.  
The updated  Code,  which  was approved  by  
senior	leadership 	and	the	Cummins 	Board	of	
Directors, 	is	built	around	10	“Statements 	of	Ethical	
Principles” 	that	provide	the	foundation 	for	ethical	
behavior  at Cummins.  The principles  are backed   
by Corporate  Policies  and other  key documents  
that give specific  guidance  on topics  and issues  
addressed  by the statements.
The 10 Statements  of Ethical  Principles  are: 
•	We	will	follow	the	law	everywhere.
•	We	will	embrace	diverse	perspectives 	and	
backgrounds,  and treat  all people  with dignity   
and respect.
•	We	will	compete	fairly	and	honestly.•	We	will	avoid	conflicts	of	interest.
•	We	will	demand	that	everything 	we	do	leads	 
to a cleaner,  healthier  and safer  environment.
•	We	will	protect	our	technology, 	our	information 	 
and our intellectual  property.
•	We	will	demand	that	our	financial	records	and	
processes  are accurate  and that our reporting  
processes  are clear  and understandable.
•	We	will	strive	to	improve	our	communities.
•	We	will	communicate 	with	honesty	and	integrity.
•	We	will	create	a	culture	where	all	employees 	take	
responsibility  for ethical  behavior.
Work  on the updated  Code  began  in 2007   
and the effort  included  feedback  from  Cummins  
employees  around  the world.  Rollout  of the  
23 GovernanceCompliance  Training
Cummins  is committed  to ensuring  that its 
employees,  and those  with whom  it does  
business,  follow  all applicable  laws  in the 
locations  we do business.
Since  late 2005,  Cummins  has introduced  
six online  compliance  training  courses  
targeted  at the appropriate  employee  
groups.  This training  includes:
•	Code	of	Business	Conduct
•	Treatment 	of	Each	Other	at	Work
•	Export	Controls
•	Federal	Corrupt	Practices	Act*
•	Antitrust
•	European 	Union	Competition**
These  courses  are made  in multiple  
languages  where  necessary  and employee  
completion  is tracked.  Altogether,  more  
than 51,000  training  subscriptions  have  
been  offered  to employees  since  late 2005  Code  will continue  well into 2008  as the 
Code  is translated  into multiple  languages  
and employee  training  materials  are updated.  
New to this version  are question  and answer  
sections  to illustrate  each  of the principles  
in action,  enhanced  contact  information  and 
a section  on “living  the Code.”  The Code  
features  a set of “FAQs”  to help  employees  
find other  resources  related  to the Code  
and for reporting  ethical  concerns.  The 
Company  also has increased  its commitment  
to updating  the Code  by creating  a process  
to annually  review  and solicit  employee  
feedback  on the Code  and supporting  
policies  and information.  
(To view  the current  Cummins  Code  of 
Business  Conduct,  go to www.cummins.com  
and click on the link from  the home  page.)
above  and all Sales  
and Marketing
EU Competition SG 8/25  
and aboveAmerican  and International  
English,  Spanish,  Portuguese,  
French,  German,  Chinese   801 721 90.0%
Code  of Conduct Professional  
and OfﬁceAmerican  and International  
English,  Spanish,  Portuguese,  
French,  German,  Chinese   15,805  15,191  96.1%
Treatment  
of Each  OtherProfessional  
and OfﬁceAmerican  and International  
English,  Spanish,  Portuguese,  
French,  German,  Chinese   14,835  13,186  88.9%
Export  Controls SG 8/25  
and aboveAmerican  and International  
English,  Spanish,  Portuguese,  
French,  German,  Chinese   8,159  7,517  92.1%
FCPA* SG 8/25  
and aboveAmerican  and International  
English,  Spanish,  Portuguese,  
French,  German,  Chinese   8,245  7,531  91.3%
Antitrust SG 8/25  and 
above  and all Sales  
and MarketingAmerican  English  3,306  3,257  98.5%
EU**  Competition SG 8/25  
and aboveAmerican  and International  
English,  Spanish,  Portuguese,  
French,  German,  Chinese   801 721 90.0%   Completion
 Subscriptions  Completed  Rate Course Languages  OfferedCummins  Compliance  Training
“Cummins  has 
created  an 
environment  that  
fosters  ethical  
behavior  and 
a commitment  
to honesty  that  
characterizes  
our dealings  with  
each  other,  as 
well as those  
from  outside  the 
Company.”  
Martha  
Whiteman
24                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability Report2006  Q1 2006  Q2 2006  Q3 2006  Q4 2007  Q1 2007  Q2 2007  Q3 2007  Q470
60
50
40
30
20
10
0Days-to-close
Goal = 24 days
to report  concerns  either  on-line  or through  toll-free  
numbers  in multiple  languages.  Employees  can 
report  concerns  anonymously  where  allowed  by 
law.  Still, more  than  half of all complainants  in 2007  
identified  themselves,  showing  a large  degree  of 
trust in the Company’s  ethics  investigation  process.   
Those  who  report  about  any topic  are protected  
under  the Company’s  anti-retaliation  policy.
Cummins  has a global  team  of trained  Master  
Investigators  who  investigate  complaints  and ensure  
that appropriate  action  is taken  in a timely  fashion.  
In 2007,  Cummins  investigated  541 ethics-related  
complaints,  compared  to 264 in 2006.  The numbers  
grew  because  of increased  training  and promotion  
of the reporting  process.  Of the cases  investigated  
in 2007,  46 percent  resulted  in a finding  that the 
DPNQMBJOUIBETPNFNFSJUoBOEPGUIPTF
28 percent  (61) resulted  in employee  termination.
Complaints  of unprofessional  behavior  and those  
grouped  into the Human  Relations  category  
accounted  for more  than  half the total  ethics  cases  
investigated  in 2007.(many  employees  must  take  more  than  one course  
due to the nature  of their  work)  with a 93 percent  
DPNQMFUJPOSBUF5IF$PNQBOZFYQFDUTUPPGGFSOFBSMZ
45,000  training  subscriptions  to its employees  in 2008,  
and is working  to improve  its reporting  system  to 
ensure  closer  to 100 percent  compliance.  
In addition,  Cummins  in 2007  began  offering  training  
courses  to key employees  at its Distributors  in many  
locations  outside  the United  States,  and has plans  
UPFYQBOEUIFDPNQMJBODFUSBJOJOHPGGFSJOHTUPUIFTF
groups  in 2008.  
Ethics  Violations,  
Reporting  and Investigations
Cummins  employees  are encouraged  to report  
suspected  violations  of the Company’s  Code  of 
#VTJOFTT$POEVDUPSBOZUZQFPGNJTDPOEVDUBOEBSF
given  several  different  means  of sharing  their  concerns.  
The Company’s  third-party  reporting  system,  
EthicsPoint,  allows  employees  around  the globe  Ethics  Cases  — Quarterly  Days-to-Close  Trend
 .V]LYUHUJLIn 2007,  Internal  
Audit  issued  
more  than  130 
audit  reports  
and audit  
memos  covering  
functions  and 
businesses  
around  the globe.with a great  place  to work.   In that time,  the 
Company  has conducted  56 diversity  audits  
at 30 sites  in the United  States  and Europe.
The audits  are conducted  by teams  of 
four to eight  employees  with diverse  
backgrounds  who  have  no direct  connection  
to the site being  audited.   The team  tours  
the	facility	and	also	examines 	satisfaction 	
surveys,  training  records,  personnel  
files and other  documents  to ensure  full 
legal compliance  and assess  the work  
environment. 		The	audit	also	examines 	
the diversity  of employees  and the site’s  
commitment  to creating  an inclusive  and 
representative  workforce.
A key component  of the audit  involves   
team  members  conducting  confidential   
one-on-one  interviews  with a randomly  
selected	cross	section	of	approximately 	 
10 percent  of the site’s  workforce.   
Employees  are asked  a variety  of  
questions  regarding  their  work  environment,  
knowledge  of workplace  policies  and 
procedures,  and their  perceptions  as to 
whether  local  management  is committed  
to the Company’s  values,  most  notably  our 
Code	of	Business	Conduct,	Treatment 	of	
Each  Other  at Work  policy  and diversity.   
Results  of the audits  are shared  with local  
management  and with the Company’s  
senior  leadership.   If issues  are discovered,  
the site must  create  an action  plan  to 
address  issues.   Currently,  the Company  
conducts  audits  at its facilities  in the United  
States	and	Europe	and	is	exploring	how	to	
expand	the	program	to	locations	in	other	
parts  of the world.In	2007,	the	Company 	completed 	a	Six	
Sigma  quality  project  aimed  at reducing  
the time  necessary  to close  investigations.  
As a result,  the average  time  to close  fell 
from more  than  60 days  at the end of 
2006  to just under  20 days  at the end of 
2007,  despite  an increased  number  of 
investigations  over  that period.  
The Company’s  reporting  system  and its 
commitment  to investigate,  take  action  and 
protect  those  who  raise  concerns  help  us 
bring	our	Code	of	Business	Conduct	to	life.
 
Ethics  Certification  Process
In 2007,  more  than  10,000  Cummins  
employees  completed  an Ethics  
Certification  in which  they  certified  their  
compliance  with the Company’s  Code  of 
Business	Conduct	and	underlying 	policies	
and	reported	any	exceptions 	to	Company 	
policy.   Internal  Audit  and the Cummins  
Law	Department 	reviewed	all	exceptions 	to	
ensure  they  were  handled  correctly  under  
Company  policy.   
Diversity  Audits
Rigorous  diversity  audits  have  been  
conducted  at Cummins’  facilities  for  
more  than  a decade  and are today  a 
central  component  of our efforts  to ensure  
that employees  enjoy  a positive,  safe and 
productive  work  environment.  
The process  began  in 1997,  led by the 
Cummins  Law  Department,  and is focused  
on making  sure  that our locations  are in 
compliance  with the laws,  are operating  
in a way consistent  with our commitment  
to diversity  and equal  opportunity,  and are 
taking  the right  steps  to provide  employees  
26                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability Reportwhere  Cummins  conducts  a significant  part of its 
business,  including  India  and China,  response  and 
compliance  rates  reached  100 percent.  Cummins  is 
working  with those  suppliers  who  have  not responded  
to attain  our goal  of 100 percent  participation.   
"OFYBNJOBUJPOPGUIFTFMGSFQPSUFEOPODPNQMJBODF
information  revealed  no significant  variance  to the 
intent  of the policy.  In addition,  Cummins  has begun  
a process  to assess  compliance  with the Supplier  
Code  while  on visits  to customers  in China  and Japan.
Internal  Audit
Cummins  has a robust  global  Internal  Audit  
EFQBSUNFOUUIBUQSPWJEFTUIF#PBSEPG%JSFDUPST
and management  with independent,  objective  
information  on the performance  of the Company’s  
control  environment.
5IF&YFDVUJWF%JSFDUPS*OUFSOBM"VEJUSFQPSUT
UPUIF"VEJU$PNNJUUFFPGUIF#PBSEPG%JSFDUPSTBOE
helps  the Audit  Committee  ensure  the integrity  of the Supplier  Code  of Conduct
Cummins  places  a premium  on doing  business  with 
companies  that share  its values  and that treat  their  
employees  with dignity  and respect.  In 2005,  Cummins  
created  a Supplier  Code  of Conduct,  which  it has 
rolled  out to more  than  2,800  suppliers  representing  
nearly  all the Company’s  supplier  spending.
The Code  spells  out standards  of employee  treatment  
UPXIJDIJUFYQFDUTJUTTVQQMJFSTUPBEIFSFJODMVEJOH
provisions  banning  child  or forced  labor  and those  
which  encourage  suppliers  to provide  a safe workplace  
their employees.
Suppliers  were  asked  to establish  a process  ensuring  
compliance  with the intent  of the code  and to provide  
a means  for workers  to anonymously  report  violations  
without  fear of retribution.  
At the end of 2007,  Cummins  had received  a 99.5  
percent  response  rate,  with 99.6  percent  of those  
responding  indicating  that they  were  in compliance  
with every  element  of the code.  In certain  regions  Yancey  Jones,  a Cummins  new  hire,  meets  with  
a member  of his diverse  group.  On his immediate  
work  team,  there  are people  representing  four  of 
the seven  continents  around  the globe.
 .V]LYUHUJLadopted	our	Code	of	Business	Conduct	or	
a substantially  similar  code  that embodies  
the same  principles.   We also have  begun  
an audit  of the existing  codes  in place  at all 
our international  joint venture  partners,  and 
will ensure  that such  entities  have  or adopt  
codes  in line with our own.
In 2007,  we developed  a training  package  
to orient  Cummins  employees  who  serve  
as directors  of our joint ventures  to their  
responsibilities.   The training  emphasizes  
the internal  review  processes  that we use 
in selecting  a joint venture  partner.   This 
training  focuses  on the role of the Cummins  
director  in the management  of the joint 
venture  and stresses  the support  available  
to the directors  from  Cummins  specialists  
in the areas  of finance,  human  resources,  
operations,  safety,  environmental  and 
other  functions.   The training  also stresses  
the establishment  and maintenance  of a 
favorable  relationship  with the JV partner  as 
an aid in resolution  of disputes  that arise.   
During  2007,  six training  sessions  were  
conducted  in Indiana,  India,  China  and 
England.   Approximately  100 JV directors,  
general  managers  and financial  leaders  
have been  trained.   The training  will 
continue	in	2008	in	Brazil	and	Central	
Indiana  with an additional  four-to-six  
training  events.
In addition  to this face-to-face  training,  
Cummins  also has launched  a pilot  
program  to deliver  some  of its on-line  
compliance  and ethics  courses  – such  as 
courses  on anti-bribery  and export  controls  
– to employees  of JVs.   This program  
has been  launched  with the joint venture  
distributor  network  in North  American  
and also is being  rolled  out to targeted  
international  joint ventures.Company’s  financial  statements  and financial  
reporting,  identify  operational  efficiency  
improvement  opportunities,  as well as the 
Company’s  compliance  with ethics  policies  
and legal  and regulatory  requirements.   
In 2007,  Internal  Audit  issued  more  than  
130 audit  reports  and audit  memos  
covering  functions  and businesses  around  
the globe.   Internal  Audit  also has a formal  
implementation  plan  follow-up  process  
to ensure  management  has addressed  
identified  risks  and implemented  corrective  
actions.   When  a function  or business  
receives  an “Unacceptable”  audit  grade,  
the	Business	Unit	leadership 	must	present	
the corrective  action  plans  to the Audit  
Committee 	of	the	Board	of	Directors. 	
Joint  Venture  Relationships
Cummins  does  business  around  the 
world  through  a number  of joint venture  
agreements  and alliances  with business  
partners  to increase  our market  penetration,  
expand  our product  lines,  streamline  our 
supply  chain  management  and develop  
new technologies.   Regardless  of whether  
Cummins  directly  manages  the joint venture  
entity,  we take  appropriate  steps  to ensure  
that the joint ventures  share  our values.
First,  we carefully  screen  potential  partners  
and only create  joint ventures  with partners  
we know  and trust.   Through  our employees’  
participation 	on	the	Boards	of	these	entities,	
we make  sure  that Cummins  values  are 
embodied  in the joint venture.
We are taking  new  steps  to ensure  that our 
joint venture  entities  treat  their  employees  
in	a	fair	and	equitable	fashion.		By	the	end	
of 2008,  all of our North  American  joint 
venture  partners  and distributors  will have  “Cummins  
leverages  the 
expertise  of 
its supplier  
partnerships  
to receive  and 
deliver  high  
quality  results.”  
Madhavi  
Gosalia
28                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportCummins  rewrote  
its export  policy  
to prohibit  all 
sales  into the 
Sudan,  except  
for humanitarian  
purposes  
approved  under  
strict guidelines.
Addressing  a Pressing  
Human  Rights  Concern  Head-on
In June  2006,  Cummins  received  a letter  from  Amnesty  International  indicating  that 
UIFHSPVQIBEFWJEFODFUIBUi$VNNJOTFOHJOFTwXFSFCFJOHVTFEUPQPXFSNJMJUBSZ
trucks  owned  by the Sudan  government,  which  is engaged  in an ongoing  civil war.
The Company  immediately  launched  an investigation  into the matter  and discovered  
that a small  number  of engines  manufactured  by a Cummins  joint venture  in China  
had been  sold by our partner  to its truck-making  subsidiary,  which  then  sold the 
trucks  to Sudan.  Cummins  had no knowledge  of the final destination  of those  
engines  and the sale violated  no U.S.  laws.
Still, Cummins  was intent  on doing  what  was right  and not just following  the letter  
PGUIFMBX5IF$PNQBOZTFOUJUTUPQ64CBTFEFYFDVUJWFXJUISFTQPOTJCJMJUZGPS
China  to discuss  the matter  with our partners  to persuade  them  to ensure  that 
products  made  by the joint ventures  don’t  end up in Sudan.  
$VNNJOTBMTPSFXSPUFJUTFYQPSUDPOUSPMQPMJDZUPXBSE4VEBOJOMBUFUP
QSPIJCJUBMMTBMFTJOUPUIFDPVOUSZGSPNBOZ$VNNJOTMPDBUJPOJOUIFXPSMEFYDFQU
for humanitarian  purposes  approved  under  a strict  set of guidelines.  The policy  
HPFTXFMMCFZPOEFYJTUJOH64MBXBOEJODMVEFTTUSPOHFSDPOUSPMTUPTBGFHVBSE
against  sales  to Sudan.   In addition,  thousands  of Cummins  employees  have  been  
USBJOFEPOFYQPSUDPOUSPMTJTTVFJOUIFQBTUZFBS
Cummins’  actions  prompted  the Sudan  Disinvestment  Task  Force  to remove  the 
Company  from  its watch  list in August  2007  and to publicly  commend  Cummins  
for its aggressive  response  to the situation.
 .V]LYUHUJLThe primary  
mission  of 
the Board  of 
Directors  is to 
represent  and 
protect  the 
interests  of the 
Company’s
stakeholders.Theodore  (Tim)  M. Solsoo$IJFG
&YFDVUJWF0GGJDFSBOE$IBJSNBOPGUIF#PBSE
at Cummins  since  2000,  after  serving  as 
Company  President  since  1995.  
Robert  J. Darnall o3FUJSFE$IBJSNBO
BOE$IJFG&YFDVUJWF0GGJDFSPG*OMBOE
Steel  Industries  and a Cummins  director  
since  1989.  
Robert  K. Herdman o.BOBHJOH
Director  of Kalorama  Partners  LLC,  a 
Washington  D.C.-based  consulting  firm,  
appointed  in 2008.
Alexis  M. Herman o$IBJSNBOBOE
$IJFG&YFDVUJWF0GGJDFSPG/FX7FOUVSFT*OD
and a director  since  2001.  
F. Joseph  (Joe)  Loughrey o/BNFE
President  and Chief  Operating  Officer  in 
.BZBOEUPUIF#PBSEJO+VMZ
BGUFSTFSWJOHBT&YFDVUJWF7JDF1SFTJEFOU
BOE1SFTJEFOUo&OHJOF#VTJOFTTGPSNPSF
than five years.  
Georgia  R. Nelsono1SFTJEFOUBOE
CEO of PTI Resources,  LLC.  She joined  
UIF$VNNJOT#PBSEJO
William  I. Millero$IBJSNBOBOE
CEO of Irwin  Financial  Corp.  and a director  
since  1989.  
Carl Wareo1SFTJEFOUBOE$IJFG0QFSBUJOH
Officer  of Ware  Investment  Properties,  LLC.  
He was named  a director  in 2004.  
J. Lawrence  Wilsono3FUJSFE$IBJSNBO
BOE$IJFG&YFDVUJWF0GGJDFSPG3PINBOE
Haas  Co. and a director  since  1990.  Corporate  Governance  
Principles  for the Board  
5IFQSJNBSZNJTTJPOPGUIF#PBSEPG
Directors  is to represent  and protect  the 
interests  of the Company’s  stakeholders.  
*OTPEPJOHUIF#PBSEIBTUIFMFHBM
responsibility  for overseeing  the affairs  of the 
Company,  and has certain  specified  powers  
and authorities  with respect  to corporate  
action  provided  by Indiana  statutes.  
5IF#PBSETPWFSTJHIUGVODUJPOJT
FYFSDJTFEUISPVHIUIFFMFDUJPOBOE
appointment  of competent  officers.  The 
#PBSESFMJFTPOUIFJOUFHSJUZFYQFSUJTFBOE
competency  of these  officers  in carrying  
out its oversight  function.  
5IF#PBSETSFTQPOTJCJMJUJFTJODMVEF
the following:  
t"EPQUDPSQPSBUFHPWFSOBODFQSJODJQMFT
consistent  with the Company’s  Vision,  
Mission  and Values.
t&YFSDJTFTPVOEBOEJOEFQFOEFOU
business  judgment  with respect  to 
significant  strategic  and operational  
issues,  including  major  capital  
FYQFOEJUVSFTEJWFSTJGJDBUJPOTBDRVJTJUJPOT
divestitures  and new ventures.
t"EWJTFTFOJPSNBOBHFNFOU
t.POJUPS
›The performance  of the Company
›The performance  of senior  
managementCummins  Board  of Directors
$VNNJOTJTHPWFSOFECZBOJOFNFNCFS#PBSEPG%JSFDUPST"NPOHUIFEJSFDUPST
POMZ$VNNJOT$IJFG&YFDVUJWF0GGJDFS5IFPEPSF	5JN
.4PMTPBOE$VNNJOT1SFTJEFOU
+PF-PVHISFZBSFDVSSFOUFNQMPZFFTPGUIF$PNQBOZ#PBSENFNCFSTBSF
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[›The effectiveness  of internal  controls  
and risk management  practices
›Compliance  with all applicable  laws  
and regulations
›Communications  and relationships  
with stakeholders  
In discharging  its fiduciary  duties  to act in the best  
JOUFSFTUTPGUIF$PNQBOZUIF#PBSEDPOTJEFSTUIF
effect  of its actions  on shareholders,  employees,  
suppliers,  customers,  communities  and the interests  
of society  as represented  by our regulators.   The 
#PBSEIBTTFWFOTUBOEJOHDPNNJUUFFT&YFDVUJWF
Committee,  Audit  Committee,  Compensation  
Committee,  Governance  and Nominating  Committee,  
Finance  Committee,  Technology  and Environment  
$PNNJUUFFBOE1SPYZ$PNNJUUFF5IFSFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT
of the Audit,  Compensation,  Governance  and 
Nominating,  Finance  and Technology  and 
Environment  committees  are set forth  in written  
DPNNJUUFFDIBSUFSTBQQSPWFECZUIF#PBSEThe Company  complies  with all NYSE  and 
regulatory  requirements  concerning  the 
membership  of certain  committees,  including  
the requirements  with respect  to independence  
BOEGJOBODJBMFYQFSUJTF5IF(PWFSOBODFBOE
Nominating  Committee  reviews  the committee  
TUSVDUVSFTPGUIF#PBSEBOEUIFNFNCFSTIJQ
of the various  committees  annually,  and makes  
SFDPNNFOEBUJPOTGPSBOZDIBOHFTUPUIF#PBSE
Managing  Risks  
Controlling  Exports  
As an international  Company,  Cummins  faces  a 
DPNQMFYTFUPGFYQPSUDPOUSPMT5IF6OJUFE4UBUFT
frequently  imposes  trade  embargoes  against  
certain  countries  and places  restrictions  on items  
that can be shipped  to certain  other  countries.
$VNNJOTGPMMPXTBMMBQQMJDBCMF64FYQPSUMBXT
CVUHPFTGVSUIFSJOTPNFJOTUBODFT'PSFYBNQMFRavi Pandit  (right),  KPIT  Cummins  Chairman  
and Group  CEO,  accepts  India’s  prestigious  
Golden  Peacock  Award  for Excellence  in 
Corporate  Governance  2007.
 .V]LYUHUJLManaging  Travel  Risks  
Cummins  serves  customers  in more  than  
70 countries  and territories,  so global  travel  
is part of many  employees’  jobs.  Travel  
always  involves  an element  of risk, but in 
today’s  world  it is especially  important  to 
manage  that risk to the best  of our ability.  
We found  ourselves  working  with 
numerous  travel  agencies  across  the world  
as Cummins’  business  expanded  globally,  
which  made  data  gathering  and reporting  
difficult.  In 2007,  we moved  to a single,  
global  travel  agency  that could  not only 
measure  up in terms  of economics,  but 
also capability,  systems  and emergency  
reporting.  Cummins  used  Six Sigma  tools   
to develop  the bid package  and sign the 
best agency  for the job. 
A world  map  tool is available  to Cummins  
management,  enabling  the instant  location  
of Cummins  personnel  worldwide.  
Pandemic  Planning  
Over the past  several  years,  reports  of 
avian  flu outbreaks  have  made  headlines  
around  much  of the world.  Much  has 
been  made  about  the consequences  of 
a possible  pandemic  should  the avian  flu 
virus gain  the ability  to easily  spread  via 
human-to-human  contact.  
At Cummins,  the well-being  of our 
employees  is extremely  important.  As 
such,  the Company  has taken  steps  to 
ensure  the health  and safety  of employees  
should  a flu pandemic  occur.  
The Company  formed  a Pandemic  
Planning  Team  with individuals  
representing  medical,  safety,  risk 
management,  human  resources,  facilities,  the Company  bars  transactions  with any 
person  or organization  where  the end 
destination  of a Cummins  product  is 
Sudan	or	Myanmar	(Burma);	or	where	any	
Cummins  product  or service  would  be used  
in a military  application  in Syria,  Libya,   
North  Korea  or Iran.  
Cummins’  policy  on exports  is 
comprehensive,  but can be summed  up in 
the following  manner:  We will know  which  
countries  are subject  to sanctions.  
We will know  our customers  and business  
partners.  We will know  our products  and be 
aware  of their  export  control  status.  We will 
obtain  necessary  licenses  where  warranted  
and will strictly  follow  their  conditions.  
We believe  our reputation  for ethical  and 
responsible  conduct  is our most  important  
and valuable  asset,  and we encourage  
employees  to raise  compliance  concerns  to 
the highest  levels  of the Company.  
All Cummins  employees  who  complete  the 
Annual  Ethics  Certification  must  certify  their  
compliance  with our most  recent  Export  
Control  Policy.
Crisis  Communications  
Making  sure  that Cummins  is prepared  
if a crisis  occurs  is a key Company  
responsibility.  To assist  facility  managers  
and others  involved  in emergency   
planning,  Cummins  routinely  updates  its 
Crisis  Communications  Plan.  The plan  
includes  vital information  for facilities  on 
how to communicate  effectively  during   
a crisis,  as well as templates  and forms   
to assist  employees  in gathering  and 
updating  information.  
Cummins  also has developed  business  
continuity  plans  for each  business  unit or 
critical  function  within  the business  unit.
“Every  employee  
at Cummins  
should  feel 
valued,  because  
there  is a 
recognition  that  
it takes  all of us 
working  together  
to make  this a 
great  company.”
Tamica  Wright
32                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportIn 2007,  the office  worked  closely  on the energy   
bill with Congress  and other  engine  companies  to 
create  a new  fuel efficiency  program  for medium  
and heavy-duty  trucks.  In addition  to increasing  
Corporate  Average  Fuel Economy  (CAFE)  
standards  for cars,  the legislation  increases  the 
use of renewable  fuels  substantially,  prompting  
the office  to focus  on providing  for the responsible  
growth  of biodiesel,  such  as requiring  labeling  so 
that consumers  know  what  they  are putting  in 
their engines  and ensuring  the adoption  of broad  
quality  standards.   The Washington  office  also 
championed  provisions  that promote  the installation  
of energy  efficiency  technologies,  including  clean  
and efficient  combined  heat  and power  projects,   
at industrial  sites  across  the country.  
Cummins  continued  to collaborate  with a broad  
group  of environmental,  industry  and public  groups  
for funding  of the Diesel  Emissions  Reduction  Act, 
a national  grant  program  to promote  the retrofit  
of older  diesel  engines  with emission  reduction  
technologies.   For the first time  in FY2008,  our 
efforts  successfully  secured  funding  for this 
program  and resulted  in a seven-fold  increase  in 
retrofit  funding  over  the previous  year.   Cummins  
also secured  increased  funding  for Department  
of Energy  research  and development  programs  
that promote  energy  efficiency  in stationary  and 
transportation  applications.communications,  business  continuity  and other  key 
areas  to help  create  a strategic  response  plan  in the 
event  of a pandemic.  
The team  has identified  key components  of the 
Company’s  response  should  a pandemic  occur.  
Our plans  take  into account  the full range  of our 
stakeholders  – employees,  customers,  investors,  
suppliers,  vendors  and the communities  in which  we 
live and work.  A critical  part of successfully  managing  
a situation  such  as this one is providing  open  lines  of 
communication  to those  stakeholders.   Employees  at 
Cummins  receive  regular  updates  on the avian  flu and 
on our efforts  to keep  them  and our facilities  safe.  
Should  a widespread  outbreak  of flu affect   
Cummins  operations,  the Company  is prepared   
to deal  with the issue.  
Government  Relations
In August  2001,  Cummins  opened  an office  in 
Washington,  D.C.  to coordinate  government  relations  
activities  for the corporation.  The Washington  office  
provides  strategic  insight  and advice  to Cummins  
business  leaders  on emerging  government  issues  and 
activities,  provides  top level  access  to government  
officials  and key policymakers,  develops  and 
implements  government  relations  strategies   
to achieve  business  objectives  and advances  business  
marketing  objectives  relative  to government  programs.
The office  elevates  government  issues  to senior  
management,  ensures  alignment  with Cummins  
businesses  and objectives,  and identifies  and 
aggressively  resolves  key government  issues  for 
the corporation.  Specific  areas  of activity  include  
energy  policy,  environment,  tax, trade,  transportation,  
government  research  and development,  government  
markets,  workplace  and human  resources  issues,  
defense  and homeland  security,  and facility  and 
infrastructure  programs.
33 GovernanceAs a result  of 
our outstanding  
technology,
Cummins  Heavy  
Duty  monthly  
market  share  
averaged  above  
40 percent  for the 
last two-thirds  of 
the year.
Environment
Cummins  Climate  Strategy
Governments,  companies,  consumers  
and Cummins  customers  around  the 
XPSMEBSFFYQMPSJOHXBZTUPDVSCUIFJS
energy  consumption,  and by so doing,  
reduce  the creation  of greenhouse  gases  
TVDIBTDBSCPOEJPYJEF$VNNJOTJT
actively  engaged  in creating  solutions  to 
this global  concern.
Why is Cummins  involved  in this?   First  
of all, it is a natural  fit with our mission  
to demand  that everything  we do lead  to 
a cleaner,  healthier,  safer  environment.  
Making  energy  improvements  is good  
business  because  it gives  Cummins  the 
opportunity  to improve  the efficiency  of our 
facilities  and drive  cost  reduction.   It’s also 
good  for our customers  because  we work  
with them  to get best  fuel economy  out of 
our products.  As part of our continued  commitment  
to sustainable  practices,  Cummins  is 
participating  in the U. S. Environmental  
Protection  Agency’s  (EPA)  Climate  
Leaders  program.
Launched  in February  2002,  EPA  Climate  
Leaders  is an industry-government  
partnership  that works  to develop  long-term  
comprehensive  corporate  climate  change  
strategies.  Climate  Leaders  Partners  set a 
corporate-wide  greenhouse  gas reduction  
goal,  inventory  their  emissions  to measure  
progress  and report  that data  to the EPA.
As a result  of our involvement,  Cummins  
has pledged  to reduce  its corporate-wide  
greenhouse  gas (GHG)  emissions  intensity  
by 25 percent  by 2010,  against  a base  
year of 2005.  The Company  will track  
greenhouse  gas emissions  at Cummins-
managed  facilities  worldwide.  The GHG  Managing  Carbon  Emissions
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[reduction  goal  is in addition  to the 20 percent  
reduction  in GHG  intensity  that Cummins  has  
already  achieved.
The Climate  Change  Team
Early in 2007,  Cummins  formed  a Climate  Change  
team  to take  both  a holistic  and tactical  view  of 
climate  change  and sustainability  at Cummins.  The 
team’s  members  are from  across  business  units  and 
functions  and represent  facilities,  product  planning,  
corporate  strategy,  environmental  policy  and 
government  relationship,  among  others.  
The	team	looks	at	issues	that	range	in	complexity 	
from domestic  and international  energy  policy  and 
fuel economy  standards  to simpler  challenges,  such  
as buildings  best  suited  for occupancy  sensors  and 
daylight  harvesters.  Collaborating  with  Customers
Cummins’  efforts  to reduce  carbon  intensity  
encompass  both  our products  and our collaborative  
efforts  with customers.  
Engines  
Cummins  has numerous  initiatives  in this area,  with 
key ones  focused  on the management  of automotive  
heavy-duty  engine  idle, cruise  control  and speed.  
Idle management  features  supported  within  the 
Electronic  Control  Modules  (ECMs)  of our engines  
can help  our customers  reduce  fuel consumption  by 
shutting  off the engine  after  a specified  amount  of 
time at idle or allowing  the fleet manager/owner  to 
make	decisions 	about	“rewarding” 	drivers	with	slightly	
more	cruise	control	maximum 	set	speed	if	they	have	
minimized  their  idle time.  Customers  can allow  a 
driver  a little more  speed  but retain  a positive  balance  
on fuel saved  — and fuel saved  is fuel not burned  
and therefore  less carbon  released.  
35 Environment“We believe  
we can’t  be 
successful  
unless  we 
focus  on 
working  toward  
a cleaner,  
healthier,  safer  
environment.  
This is a 
core value  at 
Cummins.”
Peter   
Jensen-MuirPower  Generation  
A typical  long-haul  truck  spends  an  
average  of 2,000  hours  a year  idling  with 
the base  engine  fuel consumption  of one 
gallon  per hour  at idle. A product  developed  
by our Power  Generation  business,  the 
Cummins  ComfortGuard  Auxiliary  Power  
Unit (APU),  mounts  to the frame  of the 
tractor  and can provide  heating  and air 
conditioning  while  using  only about   
0.2 gallons  of fuel per hour.  
In addition,  the APU  can keep  the main  
engine  heated  in cold  ambient  conditions  
so it will start  when  needed.  All of these  
requirements  can be achieved  with the 
APU as an alternative  to running  the main  
engine.  Use of the APU  can reduce  the  
fuel consumption  of a typical  long-haul  
truck  fleet by 1,600  gallons  of diesel  fuel  
per truck  each  year.  
Combined  Heat   
and Power  Applications  
Cogeneration,  or Combined  Heat  and 
Power  (CHP),  is the production  of two  
kinds  of energy  – usually  electricity  and  
heat – from  a single  source  of fuel. 
Cogeneration  can replace  the traditional  
method  of supplying  energy  from  multiple  
sources,  e.g.,  purchasing  electricity  from  
the power  grid and burning  natural  gas or 
oil separately  in a furnace  to produce  heat  
or steam.  These  methods  can waste  up to 
two-thirds  of the energy  in the original  fuel – 
losses  that translate  into high  utility  rates.  The second  aspect  of reducing/managing  
the carbon  risks  involves  our fuel  
economy  features.  We have  a long  list 
of features  within  our ECMs  that are 
specifically  designed  to help  customers  
minimize  the amount  of fuel they  burn.  
Again,  this ultimately  becomes  a means   
of minimizing  carbon.  
Some  of these  features  are: 
Road  Speed  and Cruise  Control  Governor:  
The feature  limits  the maximum  vehicle  
speed  with the driver’s  foot on and off  
the throttle.  Power  required,  and therefore  
fuel burned,  is directly  proportional  to  
vehicle  speed.  
Smart	Torque:	By	allowing	high	torque	in	 
the top two gears,  you can minimize  the 
number  of down  shifts  required  to maintain  
speed	on	the	highway.	By	avoiding	a	
downshift,  overall  engine  speed  is lowered  
and a lower  engine  speed  generally  
equates  to less fuel burned.  
In addition  to these  “active”  features,  
Cummins  engines  also have  a number  of 
“information  features”  where  “trip”  or “duty  
cycle”	information 	is	stored.	By	reviewing	
these  data,  a fleet manager  can look  for 
variations  between  drivers  or trucks,  look  
for trends  and use the data  for driver  
coaching  or to schedule  maintenance.  
Engine  Testing  
Cummins  is working  to reduce  energy  
consumption,  lower  pollution  levels  and 
reduce  costs  through  initiatives  to reduce  
engine  testing  in product  development  
and in manufacturing.  These  initiatives  
encompass  design,  the verification  of 
manufacturing  quality  and the advanced  
diesel  engine  quality  verification  process.  
36                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportCarbon  Disclosure  Project  and the 
Dow Jones  Sustainability  Index  
Cummins  seeks  to partner  with groups  that help  us be a better  
steward  of the environment.  
In 2006  and 2007,  we participated  in the Carbon  Disclosure  Project  
(CDP),  an institutional  investor  consortium  that seeks  to encourage  
greater  environmental  reporting  among  companies.  On behalf  of investors  
representing  $31 trillion  in assets  under  management,  CDP  asks  
companies  to provide  details  on their  carbon  emissions,  their  positioning  
in response  to the impact  of climate  change  on their  markets  and 
regulatory  environment,  their  use of energy  and planning  for the future.  
The Company  was named  to the Dow  Jones  World  Sustainability  
*OEFYGPSUIFUIJSEZFBSJOSPXCFJOHSFDPHOJ[FEBHBJOGPSJUTFDPOPNJD
FOWJSPONFOUBMBOETPDJBMMFBEFSTIJQ5IJTJOEFYSFQSFTFOUTUIFUPQ
10 percent  of the world’s  largest  2,500  companies  in these  corporate  
sustainability  metrics.  
*OBEEJUJPO$VNNJOTJTBNFNCFSPGUIF#VTJOFTT3PVOE5BCMF$MJNBUF
RESOLVE  (Responsible  Environmental  Steps,  Opportunities  to Lead  by 
Voluntary  Efforts),  whose  members  have  voluntarily  committed  to reduce  
or offset  greenhouse  gas (GHG)  emissions.  Cummins  also is a member  
of the Global  Environmental  Leadership  Council  of the Pew  Center  on 
Climate  Change  and Resources  for the Future  Climate  Forum.
 ,U]PYVUTLU[Having  the 
ability  to meet  a 
broader  range  of 
customer  needs  
with an expanded  
product  line using  
Cummins  proven  
technology  is 
our formula  for 
success  in 2010  
and beyond.t$VNNJOTXJMMFYQBOEUIF)FBWZ%VUZ
X platform  in North  America  to three  
displacements  with the introduction  of 
an 11.9L  engine  and a 16L engine  to 
complement  its flagship  15L product.  
The engines  will share  a common  
architecture  including  the XPI HPCR  
GVFMTZTUFN5IFFYQBOTJPOXJMMFOBCMF
Cummins  to meet  a broader  array  of 
customer  needs,  and marks  the first time  
in nearly  20 years  the Company  has had 
a common  architecture  across  its industry-
leading  Heavy-Duty  products.  
Having  the ability  to meet  a broader  
SBOHFPGDVTUPNFSOFFETXJUIBOFYQBOEFE
product  line using  Cummins’  proven  
technology  is our formula  for success  
in 2010  and beyond.  Designing  and 
producing  the best-in-class  Heavy-Duty  
EJFTFMSFRVJSFTFYQFSUJTFJODPNCVTUJPO
air handling,  fuel systems,  electronic  
DPOUSPMTBOEFYIBVTUBGUFSUSFBUNFOU
5IBUFYQFSUJTFBOEUIFBCJMJUZUPCBMBODF
customer  and environmental  needs  drive  
Cummins’  innovation.
5IFOFYUHFOFSBUJPODPPMFE&(3JTLFZ
UPSFEVDJOHFNJTTJPOTBOEPYJEFTPG
OJUSPHFO	/0Y
&(3UFDIOPMPHZXJMMOPU
BEEDPNQMFYJUZUPUIFWFIJDMFBOEQPXFS
torque,  fuel economy  and maintenance  
intervals  will stay the same.  Cummins  
presently  leads  the U.S.  on-highway  truck  
market  with cooled-EGR  technology.
Cummins  also will continue  to use its 
proven  Variable  Geometry  Turbocharger  
(VG Turbo),  which  bolsters  total  engine  
performance  from  power  output  to 
response  to superior  engine  braking,  The Right  Technology  
for Reducing  Emissions
Leadership  in combustion  research,  fuel 
systems,  air-handling  systems,  electronics,  
filtration  and aftertreatment  allows  Cummins  
UPNBJOUBJOJUTHPBMPGNBYJNJ[JOHDVTUPNFS
value  by providing  the most  appropriate  
emissions  control  for each  market  served.
Cummins’  diverse  product  portfolio  meets  
PSFYDFFETBMMFNJTTJPOTSFRVJSFNFOUT
and at the same  time,  delivers  on customer  
needs  for fuel economy,  performance,  
reliability  and durability.
In the fall of 2007,  Cummins  announced  
its technology  approach  for on-highway  
engines  to meet  the more  stringent  2010  
U.S. Environmental  Protection  Agency’s  
diesel  emissions  standards.  The Company  
will use an evolution  of its proven  2007  
solutions  to maintain  power  and torque  with 
comparable  fuel economy  and maintenance  
intervals  the same  as today.  Cummins  
will offer  a complete  lineup  of on-highway  
engines  to meet  the near-zero  2010  
emissions  standards.
Heavy-Duty  Solutions
Key ingredients  of the Cummins  2010  
Heavy-Duty  lineup  include:
t/0YSFEVDUJPOXJMMCFBDIJFWFECZ
an integrated  technology  solution  
comprised  of the XPI High  Pressure  
Common  Rail (HPCR)  fuel system,  
OFYUHFOFSBUJPODPPMFE&YIBVTU(BT
Recirculation  (EGR),  advanced  electronic  
controls,  proven  air handling  and the 
Cummins  Particulate  Filter.Performance  Indicators:  Products
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[Cummins  Mercruiser  Diesel  Powers  
Efficiency  and Economy  on Puget  Sound
Ivan Reiff’s  childhood  memories  of life with a fisherman  father  in Florida  led him 
to Washington  State’s  Puget  Sound,  where  he found  little San Juan  Island  and 
a wonderful  profession.
In 2003,  he and his wife,  Jacquelyn,  bought  the Western  Prince  II, a 46-foot  
fiberglass  boat  used  to take  people  to see orcas,  the beautiful  mammal  commonly
known  as killer  whales,  in their  natural  habitat.  
The Reiffs  have  been  careful  to maintain  an environmentally  responsible  operation
out of concern  for the future  of the whales.  They  are members  of the Northwest  
Whale  Watcher  Operators  Association  and adhere  to that group’s  guidelines  for 
operating  power  boats  in the vicinity  of whales.   On their  own,  they  also began  
burning  biodiesel  fuel in the boat’s  two-cycle  main  engines.   Recently,  they  
replaced  the Western  Prince’s  aging  engines  with a pair of Cummins’  new  Tier II 
DPNQMJBOU24-.$%FOHJOFTGSPN#FMMJOHIBNT5SJ$PVOUZ%JFTFM
These  400 bhp 9-litre  6-cylinder  engines  have  evolved  to meet  the stringent  
emissions  requirements  of the EPA.  A high-pressure  common  rail fuel system  
virtually  eliminates  start-up  white  smoke  and black  smoke,  improves  fuel 
economy  and significantly  reduces  noise.
8IJMFUIF$VNNJOT24-NFFUTUIF5JFS**FNJTTJPOSFRVJSFNFOUTJUBMTPIBTPUIFS
significant  advantages  for a boat  like the Western  Prince  II, which  routinely  takes  
QBTTFOHFSTPOOBUVSBMIJTUPSZUPVST#ZJODPSQPSBUJOHUIFMBUFTUFOHJOFUFDIOPMPHZ
the new  engines  add to passenger  comfort  while  generating  bottom-line  savings.  This Cummins-
powered  boat  
uses biodiesel  
fuel to take 
people  to view  
killer whales  
in their  natural  
habitat.
 ,U]PYVUTLU[Cummins  has 
worldwide  
experience  
and leadership  
with a wide  
range  of proven  
technologies.with speed  and efficiency,  due primarily  to 
two competitive  advantages.
First,  Cummins  benefits  from  an integrated  
business  structure  that enables  it to tap the 
core competencies  of Cummins  Emission  
Solutions,  Cummins  Turbo  Technologies,  
Cummins  Fuel Systems  and Cummins  
Filtration.  These  businesses  work  together  
to bring  to market  technologically  superior,  
fully integrated  systems.  
Second,  Cummins  has worldwide  
experience 	and	leadership 	with	a	wide	
range  of proven  technologies.  Cummins  
continues 	to	execute	its	carefully	planned	
product  strategy,  anticipating  changes  and 
investing  in the research  and development  
necessary  to meet  customer  needs  and 
environmental  goals.
All Cummins  U. S. on-highway  engines  will 
be fully certified  and compliant  to the near-
zero EPA  2010  emissions  standards.
Controlling  Emissions   
in the Off-Highway  Market
Cummins  captured  the attention  of the  
off-highway  equipment  industry  as the first 
to announce  a technology  path  to meet  
Tier 4 emission  regulations.   The EPA  Tier 4 
Interim	and	equivalent 	European 	Stage	IIIB	
off-highway  emission  standards  take  effect  
across  the 174-hp  to 751-hp  (130-560  kW) 
powerband  in 2011.   
The core  technology  will be Cummins  
Particulate  Filter  and cooled  EGR  system   
as part of an integrated  technology   
solution	extending 	from	air	intake	to	 
exhaust	aftertreatment.
Cummins  is taking  a lead  role in the industry  
because  of its unique  in-house  technology  while  working  in tandem  with the cooled-
EGR subsystem.
The Cummins  Particulate  Filter,  designed  
and manufactured  by Cummins  Emission  
Solutions  and introduced  in 2007,  will be 
the only aftertreatment  required  for Heavy-
Duty engines  in 2010.  The engine  and 
aftertreatment  work  together  to further  
reduce  particulate  emissions.
MidRange  Engine  Evolution
Cummins  will enhance  its MidRange  
on-highway  product  performance  and 
reliability  by adding  Selective  Catalytic  
Reduction 	(SCR)	to	its	existing	product	
to meet  the near-zero  2010  emissions  
standards.  SCR  is the right  technology  
for Cummins  medium-duty  truck,  bus and 
specialty-vehicle  customers  who  want  a 
simple  and proven  solution  to meet  their  
diverse  power  and duty  cycle  needs.
Cummins  MidRange  engines  are known  for 
their	exceptional 	value.	With	the	MidRange 	
engines,	SCR	enables	Cummins 	to	extend	
its	power	range	while	maintaining 	excellent	
fuel economy,  maintenance  intervals  
and overall  low cost  of ownership.  This 
translates  to even  better  value  for MidRange  
customers  in 2010.
SCR technology  uses  a chemical  called  
urea and a catalytic  converter  to significantly  
reduce	NOx	emissions. 	SCR	technology 	is	
not new  to Cummins.  In 2006,  Cummins  
launched  its MidRange  engines  certified  
to the Euro  4 standard  using  SCR  for 
commercial  vehicle  applications  in Europe.
Competitive  Advantages
Across  its entire  lineup  of on-highway  
engines,  Cummins  is able  to meet  
increasingly  stringent  emissions  regulations  
40                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportCummins  Named  Newsmaker  of the Year  
Cummins  received  the highly  acclaimed  Diesel  Progress  Newsmaker  of the 
Year	award	during	a	ceremony 	at	the	Cummins 	Corporate 	Office	Building	(COB)	
in Columbus,  Indiana  in December  2007.   The ceremony  was attended  by 
representatives  from  Diesel  Progress  and Cummins  and included  a presentation  
of the award,  followed  by remarks  from  Mike  Osenga,  Publisher  of Diesel  
Progress , and Cummins  officials.  
Osenga  complimented  Cummins’  ability  to consistently  communicate  engine  
technology  in a thoughtful  and timely  manner,  which  has raised  the industry  
standard  for communications.   Cummins  has long  enjoyed  a strong  relationship  
with Diesel  Progress  and was delighted  to celebrate  this achievement  with 
members  of the marketing,  sales,  engineering  and various  other  employees.
The 2007  award  highlights  three  significant  Cummins  technology  
announcements:  the launch  of the 2007  Dodge  Turbo  Diesel,  the first engine   
to meet  the 2010  heavy-duty  diesel  regulations;  the Company’s  Heavy  Duty   
and MidRange  solutions  for the North  American  EPA  2010  emission  standards   
and	the	solution	to	meet	the	Tier	4	Interim/Stage 	IIIB	regulations, 	which	will	 
take effect  in 2011.
The award,  started  in 1997,  honors  the company,  person,  product,  technology,  
market  or industry  subject  that made  the most  news  during  the year.  Cummins  
first received  the award  in 2002.  Diesel  Progress  is the leading  publication  in the 
diesel  industry.From  left:  
Mike Osenga   
from Diesel  
Progress,   
Joe Loughrey,  
Cummins  
President,  John  
Wall, Cummins  
Chief  Technical  
Officer,  and  
Mike Brezonick,  
Diesel  Progress,   
at the 
presentation  
ceremony.
SHOT  OF AWARD  COMING
41 Environmentrequired  to be in compliance  with the new  
standard  by January  of 2007.  
By	2010,	all	heavy-duty 	diesel	engines	 
are expected  to meet  the NOx  standard   
of 0.20  grams  per brake-horsepower  hour   
(g/bhp-hr)  and the PM standard  of  
0.01g/bhp-hr.  
Also by 2010,  regulations  will require  the 
phase-in  of advanced  on-board  diagnostics  
with additional  sensors  to monitor  the 
effectiveness  of emission-control  systems  
on the engine,  which  will alert  the driver  if a 
failed  emission-reduction  device  needs  to 
be repaired.  
Ultra-Low  Sulfur  Diesel  Fuel  (ULSD)  
In addition  to the new  exhaust  emission  
standards,  the EPA  is lowering  the limit for 
diesel  sulfur  fuel from  500 parts  per million  
(ppm)  to 15 ppm.  The new  fuel standard  
began  to be phased  in October  2006  and 
will be completed  by September  1, 2010  
(100 percent  participation).  
Cummins  has publicly  expressed  its  
support  of ultra-low  sulfur  fuel. ULSD  
has several  benefits.  It produces  less 
particulate  matter  from  combustion,  so it 
is a particulate  matter  control  strategy  for 
all equipment  in use.  In addition,  ultra-low  
sulfur  fuel enables  the use of advanced  
aftertreatment  control  systems.  
Biodiesel  Fuels  Now  in Use
Biodiesel	is	a	clean-burning 	alternative 	
fuel made  from  renewable  resources  like 
soybeans,  vegetable  oils and even  algae.  
It creates  about  60 percent  less carbon  
dioxide  than  petroleum  fuels,  biodegrades  
as quickly  as sugar,  and is less toxic  than  and system  integration.  Our Tier 4 solution  
is driven  by the need  to deliver  the lowest  
cost of ownership  and most  productive  
power  solutions  for operators.  The 2011  
off-highway  regulations  require  a 90 percent  
reduction  in PM and a 45 percent  reduction  
in NOx  emissions.
While  meeting  these  stringent  reductions,  
Cummins 	Tier	4	QSB	to	QSX	products	will	
offer enhanced  performance  and improved  
fuel efficiency  compared  to our current   
Tier 3 engines.  
Integrating  Tier 4 engine  and aftertreatment  
into a wide  variety  of off-highway  equipment  
types  will be challenging,  but Cummins’  
application  engineering  expertise  will enable  
us to design  and pre-engineer  all the key 
subsystems  in-house.
For Tier 4, Cummins  will offer  standardized  
engine,  aftertreatment  and air intake  
packages,  speeding  up installation  work  
and realizing  space-saving  advantages  for 
our OEM  customers.  
The 2010  EPA Emissions   
and Fuel  Rule  
Looking  ahead  to 2010,  emission  
requirements  will change  dramatically  for 
heavy-duty 	trucks	over	this	period.	Both	
NOx and PM will be reduced  by 90 percent  
from 2004  levels.  
The EPA  has allowed  for a NOx  phase-in  
from 2007  through  2009.  During  this time,  
50 percent  of the engines  produced  must  
meet  the stricter,  2007  NOx  standard,   
while  50 percent  may  continue  to meet  the 
2004  standard.  
The PM requirement  was not phased  in, 
and, as a result,  all engine  production  was “We believe  the  
right  technology   
matters  and  
that nobody  is  
better  than  we  
are at creating  
emissions-compliant  
products  that  meet   
our customers’  
expectations.”
Virendra  Kumar
42                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportUBCMFTBMU#JPEJFTFMGVFMJTGSFFGSPNUIFBSPNBUJDT
and sulfur  found  in traditional  fuels  and is one of the 
few alternative  fuels  registered  with the Environmental  
Protection  Agency  for sale and distribution.  
Unfortunately,  few engines  today  can safely  use 
CJPEJFTFMJOJUTQVSFGPSN	DBMMFE#
XJUIPVU
alterations.  Many  manufacturers  will not warrant  
an engine  for use with more  than  a 5 percent  blend  
PGCJPEJFTFM	#

&BSMZJO$VNNJOTDPNQMFUFEFYUFOTJWFUFTUT
on five of its largest  on- and off-highway  engines,  
and announced  that Cummins  customers  may  
operate  any such  emissions-compliant  engine  made  
BGUFSXJUIDPOGJEFODFVTJOHQFSDFOU	#

biodiesel  fuel. 
The popularity  of biodiesel  fuel continues  to climb.  
Estimates  are that 1.2 billion  gallons  will be produced  
in the U. S. in 2008,  and more  than  a dozen  states  
have passed  favorable  biodiesel  legislation,  making  it 
a financially  viable  alternative.  Cummins  has pledged  to continue  its efforts  to 
ensure  that future  products  will be compatible  
with biodiesel  fuels  and will continue  to participate  
in industry  efforts  to develop  consistent  quality  
throughout  the biodiesel  industry.  
Cummins  Filtration  
and the Environment  
"TUIFHMPCBMMFBEFSJOQSPWJEJOHGJMUSBUJPOFYIBVTU
coolant  and chemical  technology  for diesel  and gas-
powered  equipment  worldwide,  Cummins  Filtration  
takes  its environmental  responsibility  seriously.  
With more  than  525 active  global  patents  for 
innovative  technology,  Cummins  Filtration  continues  
to provide  environmental  leadership  by designing  
QSPEVDUTGPSUIFGVUVSFUIBUFYUFOETFSWJDFMJGFMPXFS
FNJTTJPOTBOEFMJNJOBUFIBSNGVMUPYJOT$VNNJOT
'JMUSBUJPOQSPEVDUTDPOUJOVBMMZNFFUPSFYDFFEHMPCBM
emissions  and noise  regulations,  reduce  disposal  
JTTVFTBOETVQQPSUFYUFOEFENBJOUFOBODF
The Cummins  filter  is an integral  part  of the 
Cummins  engine,  as shown  on this Whole  
Foods  Market  truck  in Indianapolis,  Indiana.  
Whole  Foods  has been  using  biodiesel  in its 
25 Midwestern  territory  fleet  for more  than  
two years,  covering  7 million  miles  and using  
800,000  gallons  of biodiesel  fuel.  
 ,U]PYVUTLU[“We take  pride  
in our work  and 
are committed  to 
producing  high-
quality  products  
that provide  
outstanding  value  
to our customers.”
Jerry  LawsonOil and Fuel  Modules  with   
Incinerable  Replacement  Cartridges
For more  than  ten years,  Cummins  
Filtration  has partnered  with our OEM  
customers  to create  oil and fuel modules  
for heavy-duty  applications.  Originally,  the 
modules  were  100 percent  metal,  and 
the replacement  cartridges  were  complex  
with multiple  metal  pieces.  Today’s  
modules  contain  less metal  and continue  
to progress  toward  increased  sustainability.  
This continued  evolution  benefits  the 
environment  through:
•	Increased 	integration 	of	composite 	
materials  in the housings,  improving  
recyclability  and decreasing  weight
•	Replacing 	the	need	for	heavy	 
spin-on  filters  by using  lighter-weight  
replacement  cartridges
•	Reducing 	the	number	of	components 	 
in the replacement  cartridges
•	Removing 	metallic	components 	 
from replacement  cartridges  for  
rust-free  storage
•	Eliminating 	adhesives, 	paint	and	cured	
paper  from  the cartridges  for reduced  
Volatile  Organic  Compounds
•	Reducing 	space	in	landfills	with	fully	
incinerable  cartridgesThe Company  has developed  a specific  line 
of environmentally  safer  products  to ensure:  
•	Reduced	environmental 	impact
•	Lower	operating 	costs	and	increased 	
vehicle  uptime
•	Excellent	performance 	
To achieve  these  results,  Cummins  
Filtration  offers  an integrated  system  
approach  for equipment  maintenance  with 
environmentally  friendly  product  choices   
for all major  engine  systems.  This stable   
of green  products  includes  the following  
state-of-the-art  technologies:  
Open  Crankcase  Ventilation  
The Fleetguard  line of Open  Crankcase  
Ventilation  meets  global  emission  standards  
for 2007  and protects  the environment  by: 
•	Reducing 	blow-by	oil	emissions 	to	the	
atmosphere  by more  than  65 percent
•	Lowering	PM	emissions
•	Reducing 	oily	residues	on	the	back	 
of vehicles
•	Reducing 	oil	drip	by	99	percent,	
eliminating  oil dripping  onto  roads,  crops,  
bodies  of water,  garages   
and driveways
•	Reducing 	oil	waste	and	clean-up	costs
•	Minimizing 	engine	downtime 	and	
lowering  maintenance  costs  
44                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportFabiola  Guadalupe  
Alonso  Zapata  
works  in the 
Generator  
Technologies   
plant in San Luis 
Potosi,  Mexico.
San Luis  Potosi  Gets  Energized,  
Helps  Protect  Environment
The San Luis Potosi  (SLP)  facility  hosted  the city mayor  and the 
Ministry  of Ecology  staff,  as they  delivered  2,000  kilograms  of used  
batteries  to the SLP  plant  for proper  disposal  in the summer  of 2007.  
The batteries  were  collected  by the municipality  during  the program  
called	“Energize 	Yourself.”
This program  encouraged  the correct  disposal  of batteries  to  
prevent  contamination  of the environment,  especially  the subsoil.  
Cummins  is the only authorized  storage  center  in the state  to  
provide  such  disposal.
During  the event,  Mayor  Jorge  Lozano  Armengol  emphasized  the 
importance  of this program  and thanked  Cummins  employees  for  
their participation.  SLP  Plant  Director  Miguel  Kindler  also stressed   
the importance  of supporting  the environment  through  correctly  
disposing  batteries.
Allen Pierce,  General  Manager  of Parts  and Service  Manufacturing,  
received  the batteries  from  the mayor  in a symbolic  act to emphasize  
that Cummins  is committed  to advancing  the community  and 
protecting  the environment.
45 Environment“Being  a low-
cost producer  
is essential  to 
the Company’s  
business  tactics,  
and Six Sigma,  
with its 
 relationship  to  
all Cummins’  
business   
activities  and 
processes,   
remains  key  
to this strategy.”
Rong  Sun •	Superior	fuel/water 	separation 	and	
reduced  restriction
•	Longer	service	intervals	with	three	 
times  the life of conventional  similar-
sized  cellulose  filters  
ES Compleat™  Glycerin  Premix  
Long-Life  Antifreeze/Coolant  – 
Sustainability  and Performance
Cummins  Filtration  has long  supported   
the importance  of greener  solutions  
through  all product  development.  
In early  2008,  the company  announced  
the release  of Fleetguard  ES Compleat™  
Glycerin  Premix  coolant  to the global  
marketplace.   Fleetguard  ES Compleat   
is an innovative  heavy  duty  engine  
antifreeze/coolant  that uses  glycerin   
in lieu of traditional  ethylene  glycol  (EG)   
or propylene  glycol  (PG).   Glycerin  is 
derived  from  renewable  sources  and is 
the primary  byproduct  of the biodiesel  
manufacturing  process.   
Supporting  sustainability  with a glycerin  
coolant  that also offers  excellent  protection  
is very important  to the Company  mission.  
Cummins  Filtration  conducted  extensive  
testing  and field trials  of the glycerin-based  
antifreeze.   All tests  confirmed  that ES 
Compleat  Glycerin  Premix  provides  the  
anti-freeze,  anti-boil,  heat  transfer  and 
corrosion  protection  required  of today’s   
fully formulated,  heavy-duty  antifreeze  
coolants  and meets  or exceeds  the 
performance  specifications  of all heavy-duty  
engine  OEMs.   Industrial  Pro™   
Diesel  Fuel  Filtration  
The FH 4 Series  Industrial  Pro™  diesel  fuel 
filtration  system  is standard  on all Cummins  
2007  high-horsepower  engines.  The all-in-
one fuel filter,  fuel/water  separator  and fuel 
heater  combines  EleMax™  filter technology  
and multi-layered  StrataPore™  media  
to provide  higher  fuel/water  separation  
efficiency  over  time  and reduced  restriction  
to flow.  Other  outstanding  features  and 
benefits  include:  
•	5-minute	maintenance 	with	 
self-priming  port
•	Clear	cover	showing	users	when	 
NOT to change  filter
•	Seeing	is	Believing® 	patented	
technology  with superior  water  and 
contaminant  removal  
Sea Pro®  Marine   
Diesel  Fuel  Processor  
The	FH	4	Series	Sea	Pro®	5	diesel	fuel	
processor  is standard  on all Cummins  2007  
Tier II marine  engines  and may  be used  
on other  manufacturers’  new  and existing  
engines.	Sea	Pro®	5	includes	fuel	filtration,	
fuel/water  separation,  water-in-fuel  sensors,  
and proprietary  StrataPore™  media.  Its 
unique  features  provide  competitive  benefits  
while  protecting  the environment  with:  
•	Remote	mount	design	allows	5-minute, 	
no-mess  filter change
•	Highly	durable,	corrosion-resistant 	shell
46                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportShuttle  buses  pick 
up employees  for 
the daily  commute,  
helping  reduce  
traffic  and pollution  
in Wuxi,  China.
Busing  Through  Wuxi
8VYJOFBSUIFTPVUIFBTUDPBTUPG$IJOBJTPOFPGUIFGBTUFTUHSPXJOH
cities  in the world.  Cummins  has turbocharger  and alternator  plants  
nearby,  employing  hundreds  of workers  who  must  make  their  way 
from the city into work  every  day.  
To help  cut back  on the traffic  and pollution  that so often  accompany  
JOEVTUSJBMFYQBOTJPO$VNNJOTJOJOUSPEVDFE4V[IPV,JOHMPOH
shuttle  buses  equipped  with Cummins  Euro  III engines.  The buses  
pick up employees  for their  daily  commute  and return  them  to the city 
at the end of a shift.  
Among  their  strongest  supporters  are the drivers  who  operate  the 
CVTFTFWFSZEBZ"TPOFSFNBSLFEi5IFCVTJTTUSPOHBOEQPXFSGVM
It makes  starting  and stopping  on crowded  city roads  so much  easier.  
$PNQBSFEUPPUIFSCVTFT*WFESJWFOJUIBTFYDFMMFOUGVFMFDPOPNZ
MPXFOHJOFOPJTFBOECFTUPGBMMOPCMBDLTNPLFGSPNUIFCBDLw
8JUIUIFOFXCVTFT8VYJ)PMTFUJTNFFUJOHUIFFOWJSPONFOUBM
QPMJDJFTPGUIF8VYJ(PWFSONFOUBVUIPSJUJFT
 ,U]PYVUTLU[Emission  
Solutions  
offers  exhaust  
aftertreatment  
systems  that  
control  harmful  
emissions.Emission  Solutions  has established  a 
leadership  position  in the North  American  
school  and urban  bus markets  with its 
retrofit	and	“neofit”	aftertreatment 	products. 	
 
The Technology  Advantage
Cummins  has long  been  a pioneer  in 
emission  research  and development,  
investing  in critical  technologies  to 
achieve  future  emission  standards  while  
meeting  the needs  of our customers.  The 
Company’s  emissions  solutions  are the 
result  of a technology  plan  set in motion  
in the early  1990s.  This plan  will carry  
Cummins  through  2010  and beyond.  
At the core  of this road  map  is a strategic  
decision  to develop  the right  technology  
for each  application  and market  served.  
Different  operating  conditions  and factors  
can influence  the technology  path  for 
each  market.  And while  developing  
multiple  emission  solutions  has required  
a significant  investment  in research  and 
development,  the Company  believes  it will 
guarantee  Cummins’  customers  optimum  
performance  and reliability  at the lowest  
possible  cost  of operation.
More  than  half of the $2.4  billion  spent  by  
Cummins  on research  and development  
in the last 10 years  has been  invested  in 
emission  reduction  technologies.  
Nothing  the Company  does  is more  
important.  Through  our technical  
productivity  initiatives,  we have  reduced  
our cost  of research  and engineering  from  
5 percent  of sales  to less than  3 percent  
of sales,  while  growing  market  share  and 
extending 	our	product	lines.	With	extended	service	intervals	of	 
150,000  miles  (250,000  km or 4000  hrs),  
ES	Compleat 	Glycerin	Premix	offers	freeze	
protection  to -32 Degrees  F and offers  
ultimate  liner pitting,  corrosion,  aluminum  
and solder  protection  for longer  system  
life.  The coolant  is compatible  with gaskets,  
elastomers  and other  non-metallics  in the 
engine  and is suitable  for all diesel,  gasoline  
and natural  gas engines.  
Aftermarket:  Emission  Solutions  
Cummins  has leveraged  its research,  
product  development  and technology  
expertise	to	create	businesses 	such	as	
Emission  Solutions.  This Components  Group  
business  is a market-leading  global  designer,  
manufacturer 	and	distributor 	of	exhaust	
aftertreatment  systems  and devices  for the 
on and off highway  medium  duty,  heavy  duty  
and high horsepower  engine  markets.  
With key operations  in Indiana,  Wisconsin,  
the United  Kingdom  and South  Africa,  
Cummins  Emission  Solutions  products  serve  
both OEM  and retrofit  customers.  
Emission	Solutions	specializes 	in	exhaust	
products  and systems  for diesel  engines.  
Emission	Solutions	offers	exhaust	
aftertreatment  systems  that control  harmful  
emissions 	such	as	CO,	HC,	NOx	and	PM.	
Emission  Solutions  products  reduce  PM  
and	NOx	to	99	percent	less	than	
unregulated  levels.  With  retrofit  and first-fit  
options,  Emission  Solutions  has integrated   
service  solutions  to help  customers  
understand  local  air quality  regulations  
and identify  sources  of funding  for specific  
emission  reduction  efforts.  Cummins  
48                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportReCon:  Going  Green,  Going  Global
“Reduce,  reuse,  recycle.”  That’s  a key slogan  for environmentalists  
everywhere.  At Cummins,  we have  an additional  term:  ReCon.  ReCon  is the 
name  Cummins  uses  for its line of genuine,  factory-remanufactured  products.  
It takes  about  85 percent  less energy  to remanufacture  a product  than  to 
make  one from  new  parts.  
Reusing  an engine  block,  for example,  saves  energy  at every  step  along  the 
way in mining,  ore processing,  transportation,  casting  and machining.  
Materials  reclaimed  through  ReCon  are estimated  to result  in energy  savings  
sufficient  to power  10,000  homes  in the U. S. Since  most  of that energy  
is fossil-fuel  based,  the savings  also add up to greenhouse  gas (GHG)  
reductions.  Cummins  reuses  or recycles  over  48 million  pounds  of material  
each  year,  with a corresponding  GHG  reduction  of about  200 million  pounds.  
As good  as ReCon  is for the environment,  it also is good  for business.  
The countercyclical  nature  of the remanufactured  parts  business  gives  
Cummins  another  opportunity  to demonstrate  long-term,  stable  earnings  for 
shareholders.  And customers  like the fact that ReCon  effectively  extends  
the life of their  equipment.  Most  ReCon  products  are available  immediately,  
reducing  customer  wait time  for a component  or engine  rebuild.  
Cummins  has had a ReCon  business  in the U. S. since  the 1960s,  but now  is 
locating  world-class  remanufacturing  sites  in India  and China.  As we increase  
our global  ReCon  footprint,  we will increase  revenues  through  remanufacturing  
and add greater  global  diversification  to our portfolio.  It takes  about  
85 percent  
less energy  to 
remanufacture  
an engine  than  
to make  one 
from new parts.
49 Environment“The  best  way  
to have  great  
employees  is to 
provide  a work  
environment  that  
challenges  them  
to do their  best.”
Alberta  GreenEmission  Regulations   
and Cummins  Product  Goals
Since  the 1970s,  Cummins  on-highway  
engines  have  been  regulated  by the EPA  
and similar  regulatory  agencies  around  the 
world  for combustion  emissions,  including  
NOx,  carbon  monoxide  (CO),  hydrocarbons  
(HC) and PM, also known  as soot.  
Cummins  works  closely  with regulatory  
bodies  to seek  aggressive,  but 
technologically  feasible,  emission  reductions  
that also allow  us to continue  to make  
products  that meet  the exacting  needs  of 
our customers.  
When  compared  to emissions  from  
unregulated  engines  — i.e. before  EPA  
standards  became  effective  in 1973  — 
today’s  on-highway  diesel  engines  emit   
90 percent  less PM and nearly  90 percent  
less NOx.  Cummins  and other  engine-One part of this strategy  involves  process  
improvement  tools  such  as Six Sigma  
and Analysis-Led  Design  (using  computer  
analysis  and simulation  tools  to optimize  
designs  analytically  and eliminate  expensive  
prototype  testing).  Another  is to involve  
OEMs  and joint venture  partners  as early   
as possible  in the development  and 
integration  process.  
This open  exchange  of information  and 
technology  has been  – and will continue  
to be – instrumental  in developing  high-
performance  products  that deliver  optimum  
performance  and reliability  at the lowest   
total cost.  
Total  Automotive  Useful  Life Emissions
Nitrogen  Oxides  (NOx)  in 1,000  Tons
2005599558
2006800
736
2007339
210
Total  Automotive  Useful  Life Emissions  
Particulate  Matter  (PM)  in 1,000  Tons
20052524
200634
29
20072EPA Allowed
Cummins  Produced
1Total  Automotive  Useful  Life Emissions
Nitrogen  Oxides  (NOx)  in 1,000  Tons
2005599558
2006800
736
2007339
210
Total  Automotive  Useful  Life Emissions  
Particulate  Matter  (PM)  in 1,000  Tons
20052524
200634
29
20072EPA Allowed
Cummins  Produced
1
50                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability Reportmakers  are required  by the end of the decade  to 
GVSUIFSSFEVDF1.BOE/0YUPMFWFMTQFSDFOU
lower  than  the unregulated  levels.  
Off-highway  engines  produced  by Cummins  also 
are subject  to stringent  emission  standards.  While  
the combustion  process  for off-highway  engines  
is fundamentally  the same  as for on-highway  
engines,  the emission  control  strategies  are not 
interchangeable  because  of the broad  horsepower  
range,  unique  applications  and the wide  variety  of 
duty cycles  typical  of off-highway  products.  
#FUXFFOBOEPGGIJHIXBZFOHJOF
FNJTTJPOTGPS/0YBOE1.IBWFCFFOSFEVDFECZ
80 percent  and 85 percent,  respectively.  And from  
2010  to 2014,  off-highway  engines  will be controlled  
to essentially  the same  level  of emissions  as their  
POIJHIXBZFOHJOFDPVOUFSQBSUT#Z/0YBOE
PM emissions  from  off-highway  engines  will be 98 
percent  lower  than  they  were  in 1995.  The charts  on these  and subsequent  pages  depict  
Cummins’  commitment  to the environment  by 
demonstrating  that the Company’s  engines  often  
FYDFFE64FNJTTJPOTTUBOEBSET5IFPOSPBE
charts  for North  America  compare  the estimated  
NBYJNVNBMMPXBCMFFNJTTJPOTCZ&1"TUBOEBSET
versus  Cummins’  estimate  of its engines’  actual  
emissions  for the past  three  years.  Estimates  are 
based  on the number  of engines,  both  heavy-duty  
and midrange,  manufactured  in the United  States  
for on-highway  use per year.  
Cummins  engines  have  released  far less hydrocarbon  
BOEDBSCPONPOPYJEFJOUPUIFFOWJSPONFOUUIBOUIF
NBYJNVNBMMPXFECZUIF&1"
"OEFWFOCZUIFUPVHI/0YBOE1.NFBTVSFT
Cummins  has been  under  the standards.  
The figures  in the non-road  charts  are based  on 
the number  of midrange,  heavy-duty  and high-
horsepower  engines  produced  for non-road  engines  
produced  to EPA  standards.  As with Cummins  On-Highway  Diesel  Engine  Volumes  (k)





 
Midrange  (3–9  liters)
Heavy-Duty  (10–15  litersTotal  Automotive  Useful  Life Emissions  
Hydrocarbons  (HC)  in 1,000  Tons






Total  Automotive  Useful  Life Emissions  
Carbon  Monoxide  (CO)  in 1,000  Tons
 

 


 For 2005,  the emission  tons  calculation  was updated  to 
correctly  reflect  EPA  regulated  useful  life since  last report.
 ,U]PYVUTLU[Going  Beyond  Requirements   
in Other  Countries  
Cummins  meets  or exceeds  emission  
regulations  in every  country  that it operates.  
In South  Africa,  where  there  are no 
emission  regulations  for existing  types,  
Cummins  sells  EPA  certified  1998/1999  
engines.  Standards  in South  Africa  
commence  in 2010.  Similarly,  in Taiwan,  
emissions  regulations  require  EPA  1994  
standards,  yet Cummins  sells  EPA  1999  
certified  engines.  In Mexico,  the Company  
sells EPA  2004  certified  engines,  although  
the law requires  EPA  1999  certified  engines.  
Cummins  has worked  closely  with the 
Chinese  government  and OEMs  to 
introduce  “green  engines”  to China.  
Cummins  is committed  to bringing  in 
advanced,  low-emission  environmental  
products  to Chinese  customers  on-road  engines,  these  non-road  engines  
release  far less HC and CO into the 
environment  than  the maximum  allowed  
by regulatory  agencies.  Likewise,  NOx  and 
PM actual  emission  levels  are under  the 
applicable  standards.  
Cummins  also participates  in a regulatory  
program	called	Averaging, 	Banking	and	
Trading	(ABT).	This	program	allows	emission	
credits  to be generated  and “banked”  
by a company  whose  products  generate  
emissions  that are lower  than  the regulated  
level.  These  banked  credits  may  be applied  
to other  engines  whose  emissions  are higher  
than the standard.  However,  some  credits  
are discounted  by a certain  percentage  
depending 	on	engine	type	and	ABT	program	
rules.  As a result  of this discounting  process,  
a portion  of the emissions  credits  go unused  
by the Company,  and are thus  an additional  
benefit  to the environment.  EPA Allowed
Cummins  ProducedTotal  Non-road  Useful  Life Emissions  
Nitrogen  Oxides  + Hydrocarbons  
(NOx + HC) in 1,000  Tons
2005473
405
2006368
329
2007503472
14
Total  Automotive  Useful  Life Emissions
Nitrogen  Oxides  (NOx)  in 1,000  Tons
2005599558
2006800
736
2007339
210
Total  Automotive  Useful  Life Emissions  
Particulate  Matter  (PM)  in 1,000  Tons
20052524
200634
29
20072EPA Allowed
Cummins  Produced
1Total  Non-road  Useful  Life Emissions
Carbon  Monoxide  (CO)  in 1,000  Tons
2005385
60
2006274
78
2007383
148EPA Allowed
Cummins  ProducedTotal  Non-road  Useful  Life Emissions  
Nitrogen  Oxides  + Hydrocarbons  
(NOx + HC) in 1,000  Tons
2005473
405
2006368
329
2007503472
14
Total  Automotive  Useful  Life Emissions
Nitrogen  Oxides  (NOx)  in 1,000  Tons
2005599558
2006800
736
2007339
210
Total  Automotive  Useful  Life Emissions  
Particulate  Matter  (PM)  in 1,000  Tons
20052524
200634
29
20072EPA Allowed
Cummins  Produced
1Total  Non-road  Useful  Life Emissions
Carbon  Monoxide  (CO)  in 1,000  Tons
2005385
60
2006274
78
2007383
148
“Cummins’  future  
is based  on how  
well we develop  
and apply  
technology  to 
our products.   As 
an independent  
engine  and 
components  
manufacturer,  we 
are committed  to 
being  the best  at 
doing  this.”
Bob Mcilree
52                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability Reportconcurrently  with international  markets,  including  
the United  States  and Europe.  
Cummins  and its joint venture  partner,  Dongfeng  
Automotive,  started  limited  production  of Euro  III 
diesels  in late 2006  and reached  volume  production  
in the second  quarter  of 2007  in advance  of the 
Chinese  Government’s  requirements.  
In addition  to local  production  of Euro  III engines,  
Cummins  is the first foreign  diesel  maker  to invest  
in the local  manufacturing  of key sub-systems,  
including  fuel system  and after-treatment  products.  
This initiative  supports  Chinese  partners  and OEM  
customers  as they  work  to meet  future  emission  
standards,  including  Euro  III, Euro  IV and above.  
Cummins  Fuel Systems  plant  in Wuhan  and 
$VNNJOT&NJTTJPO4PMVUJPOTQMBOUJO#FJKJOHXJMM
both start  production  in 2008.A Green  Leader  in China
$VNNJOTIBTBIJTUPSZPGCFJOHBiHSFFOMFBEFSw
in China.  In 1999,  Cummins  was the first foreign  
diesel  maker  to power  the large-scale  Euro  II transit  
fleet in South  China’s  Shenzhen  City,  two years  
before  China  implemented  the Euro  I standards.  
5IFTBNFZFBSJO#FJKJOH$VNNJOTMBVODIFE&VSP
II compressed  natural  gas engines,  which  were  
later branded  through  Cummins’  joint venture  with 
8FTUQPSUJO$BOBEB#FJKJOH1VCMJD5SBOTJUJTOPX
the world’s  largest  CNG  fleet,  with close  to 3,000  
Cummins  Westport  Euro  II and Euro  III natural  gas 
engines  installed  to date.
In 2001,  Cummins  began  introducing  Euro  III diesel  
engines  into the China  market.  Currently,  more  
than 20,000  Cummins  Euro  III diesels  power  transit  
buses  and coaches  across  the country,  making  
Cummins  the top Euro  III diesel  supplier  in China.  
*OQSFQBSBUJPOGPSUIF#FJKJOH0MZNQJDT$VNNJOT
TUBSUFEJOUSPEVDJOH&VSP*7FOHJOFTJOUP#FJKJOH



 
Non-road  Diesel  Engine  Volumes  (k)
  
Midrange  (3–9  liters)
Heavy-Duty  (10–15  liters
High Horsepower  (19–78  liters)Total  Non-road  Useful  Life Emissions  
Particulate  Matter  (PM)  in 1,000  Tons






For 2005,  the emission  tons  calculation  was updated  to correctly  reflect  EPA  regulated  useful  life since  last report.
 ,U]PYVUTLU[The Cummins  
Science  and 
Technology  
Advisory  Council  
members  
regularly  discuss  
the future  of 
the internal  
combustion  
engine  and the 
use of alternative  
power  sources.The Cummins  Science  and Technology  
Advisory  Council  members  regularly  discuss  
the future  of the internal  combustion  
engine  and the use of alternative  power  
sources.	As	an	example,	Cummins 	already	
has pursued  alternative  energy  options,  
including  clean  natural  gas bus engines  and 
power  generation  units  that harness  waste  
gases  such  as methane  available  in landfills.  
The Cummins  Science  and Technology  
Advisory  Council  members  are: 
Frank  S. Bates
Chairman,  Chemical  Engineering  and 
Materials  Science  Department,
University  of Minnesota.
Dr. Harold  Brown,  Counselor
Center  for Strategic  and International  
Studies,  retired  Cummins  Director,   
former  Secretary  of Defense  and  
President  of CalTech.  
Phil Sharp
President  of Resource  for the Future,  
Washington,  D.C.
Dr. Sophie  V. Vandebroek  
Chief	Technical 	Officer	and	President, 	Xerox	
Innovation 	Group	for	Xerox	Corporation, 	
Stamford,  Connecticut.  Fellow  of the 
Institute  of Electrical  & Electronics  Engineers  
and served  as an elected  member  on the 
IEEE Administrative  Committee.  Fulbright   
Fellow	and	a	Fellow	of	the	Belgian-
American  Educational  Foundation.  
Dr. George  M. Whitesides
Mallinckrodt  Professor  of Chemistry  at  
Harvard  University.  Public  Transit  in 2005.  This summer,  2,750  
transit  buses  in China’s  Capital  City will be  
powered  by Cummins  Euro  IV diesels  and 
will be in use for transportation  related  to  
the Olympic  Games.
Although  China  does  not currently  have  a 
nationwide  emission  standard  for off-road  
equipment,  Cummins  has been  working  
closely  with local  OEMs  to introduce  
emission-compliant  industrial  engines  at 
the same  time  as the European  and U.S.  
markets.  All of the imported  engines  we sell 
for China’s  construction  market  are either  
Tier 2 or 3 compliant,  with local  production  
presently  moving  to Tier 2.  
At	the	2008	ConExpo	in	Las	Vegas,	
Cummins  formed  strategic  alliances  with 
leading  Chinese  construction  OEMs  to 
power	their	export	equipment 	with	Cummins 	
Tier	4	interim/Stage 	IIIB	low	emission	off-
road diesel  engines.  In addition,  Cummins’  
Chinese  engineers  helped  the local  EPA  
draft the first generation  of China’s  off-road  
emission  standards.  
Counsel  in Developing  Products   
and Meeting  Standards  
In developing  products  to meet  various  
standards,  as well as the demands  of its 
customers,  Cummins  seeks  advice  and 
counsel  from  its Science  and 
Technology  Advisory  Council  and the 
Technology  and Environment  Committee   
of	its	Board	of	Directors. 	
Cummins  Science  and Technology   
Advisory  Council,  formed  in 1993,  has 
given  the Company  access  to some  of the 
country’s  leading  scientific  thinkers  and 
policymakers  from  the worlds  of academia,  
industry  and government.  
54                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportIts membership  includes  the following  Directors:  
Alexis	M.	Herman,	Georgia	R.	Nelson,	 
William  I. Miller  and Carl Ware.  
The committee  also encourages  collaboration  
between	Cummins 	and	the	external	technical	
and environmental  community  and reviews  the 
technology  plans  of the Company.  Dr. Gerald  L. Wilson  
Professor  of Electrical  Engineering  and Mechanical  
Engineering,  Massachusetts  Institute  of Technology,  
formerly  Dean  of Engineering  at MIT.  
The Technology  and Environment  Committee  
of	the	Cummins 	Board	of	Directors	advises	top	
management  and the technical  leadership  of  
Cummins  regarding:  
•	Technology 	strategy	and	planning
•	Significant 	research	and	technology 	projects	 
and tools
•	Major	new	product	programs
•	Environmental 	policy	and	strategy	within	the	 
public  arena  as well as maintaining  an internal   
action  plan.
 
John  Sadtler  (left),  Second  Shift  
Operator  on the XPI nozzle  production  
line for Fuel Systems,  speaks  with 
visiting  U.S.  Commerce  Secretary  
Carlos  Gutierrez  at the Fuel Systems  
plant in Columbus,  Indiana.
55 EnvironmentBy the end
 of 2007,  
Cummins  had 42 
manufacturing
facilities  and the 
corporate  entity  
registered  to 
the ISO 14001  
Standard.The Council  meeting  is the forum  for 
developing  HSE  policies  and strategic  
initiatives  and is where  company-wide  
objectives  and targets  are established.   
Among  the Council’s  initiatives  in support  
of performance  improvement  objectives  
are a focus  on facility  registration  to the 
Enterprise  Safety  and Environmental  
Management  Systems,  building  good  
HSE practices  into the Company’s  growth  
strategy  and organizational  and individual  
GVODUJPOBMFYDFMMFODFEFWFMPQNFOU
Health,  Safety  and Environmental  
Management  Systems
Cummins’  safety  and environmental  policy  
drives  the global  Safety  and Environmental  
Management  Systems,  which  provide  
the platform  for setting  key objectives  
and ongoing  monitoring  of our HSE  
performance.   Cummins  has incorporated  
the elements  of the ISO 14001  Standard  
and the OHSAS  18001  Safety  Guidelines  
into the two systems  and has committed  
to registration  by an independent  third-
party.   Cummins  has taken  a multi-site  
iFOUFSQSJTFwBQQSPBDIUPSFHJTUSBUJPOPG
these  management  systems,  rather  than  
a customary  individual  site registration.   
This global,  single  registration  employs  a 
centralized  management  review  process  
that captures  key HSE  performance  data  
for analysis  at every  level  in the organization.  
This approach  allows  Cummins  to 
leverage  superior  environmental  and safety  
management  programs  and practices  for 
implementation  worldwide.   The enterprise  
BMMPXTGPSGMFYJCJMJUZJOEFWFMPQNFOUPGB
management  system  within  a framework  Doing  our part to promote  a healthy  
environment  goes  beyond  producing  the 
cleanest  possible  products.  Cummins’  
facilities  have  a large  role to play in helping  
create  a safe and sustainable  environment  
for today  and in the future.  
Minimizing  workplace  injuries,  reducing  
facility  emissions  and waste  and conserving  
natural  resources  are fundamental  to 
Cummins’  commitment  to the communities  
in which  we work  and live. These  efforts  
also have  a direct  positive  impact  on the 
profitability  of our business.   
Cummins’  approach  to facilities  
management  acknowledges  the importance  
of protecting  the environment  and 
conserving  our natural  resources,  and 
includes  our formal  commitment  to the 
long-term  sustainability  of our operations.  
As we continue  to meet  our regulatory  
obligations,  we also will work  to identify  
opportunities  for improvement  and reduce  
the environmental  impact  of our operations.  
Safety  and Environmental  Council  
Cummins  Corporate  Health,  Safety  
and Environmental  (HSE)  Council  was 
established  in 2003  and continues  to 
strengthen  today.   The HSE  Council  
brings  together  manufacturing,  safety
 and environmental  leaders  from  across  
the Company’s  business  units,  along  
with corporate  staff  and the General  
Counsel.   The Council  meets  quarterly  
with the objective  of building  a best-in-
class  safety  and environmental  organization  
across  Cummins  worldwide  entities.  Performance  Indicators:  Facilities
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[Environmental  Management  System  Registrations  to ISO 14001  
  
Site Reg.  Year  Location  Business  Unit
Cummins 	–	Daventry	Engine	Plant	 2001	 UK	 Engine
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Quimper	 2001	 France	 Components
Cummins 	Turbo	Tech.	–	Huddersfield	 2001	 UK	 Components
Cummins 	–	Darlington 	Engine	Plant	 2002	 UK	 Engine
Emissions 	Solutions	–	Mineral	Point	 2001	 USA	 Components
Cummins 	–	San	Luis	Potosi	 2002	 Mexico	 Engine
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Viroqua	 2002	 USA	 Components
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Arcadia	 2002	 USA	 Components
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Wautoma	 2002	 USA	 Components
Cummins  Industrial  Center/Cummins  Komatsu  Engine  Co. 2002  USA Engine
Cummins 	Generator 	Tech.	–	Stamford	 2002	 UK	 Power	Gen
Cummins 	Turbo	Tech.	–	Charleston	 2002	 USA	 Components
Dongfeng  Cummins  Engine  Co. Ltd/ 
Cummins  Xiangfan  Machinery  Co. Ltd 2002  China  Engine
Tata Cummins  Limited  2003  India Engine
Cummins 	–	Fuel	Systems	Plant		 2003	 USA	 Components
Cummins 	Brazil	Ltd.	 2003	 Brazil	 Engine
Cummins 	–	MidRange 	Engine	Plant	 2003	 USA	 Engine
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Lake	Mills	 2003	 USA	 Components
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Black	River	Falls	 2003	 USA	 Components
Cummins 	–	Corporate 		 2003	 Worldwide	 Corp
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Bloomer	 2003	 USA	 Components
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Neillsville		 2003	 USA	 Components
Cummins 	Turbo	Tech.	–	Dewas	 2004	 India	 Components
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Findlay	 2004	 USA	 Components
Cummins 	Turbo	Tech.	–	Wuxi	 2004	 China	 Components
Consolidated  Diesel  Company  2004  USA Engine
Cummins 	–	Jamestown 	Engine	Plant	 2004	 USA	 Engine
Cummins 	Power	Generation 	–	Fridley	 2004	 USA	 Power	Gen
Diesel	ReCon		–	Juárez/El	Paso	 2004	 USA/Mexico	 Engine
Cummins 	Generator 	Tech.		–	San	Luis	Potosi	 2005	 Mexico	 Power	Gen
Cummins 	Filtration		–	San	Luis	Potosi	 2005	 Mexico	 Components
Diesel	ReCon	–	Memphis	 2005	 USA	 Engine
Cummins 	Power	Generation 	–	Kent	 2005	 UK	 Power	Gen
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Brazil	 2006	 Brazil	 Components
Cummins 	Filtration	–	Cookeville	 2006	 USA	 Components
Cummins 	–	Columbus 	Engine	Plant	 2006	 USA	 Engine
Cummins 	Power	Generation 	–	Beijing	 2007	 China	 Power	Gen
Cummins 	Power	Generation 	–	Singapore	 2007	 Singapore	 Power	Gen
Cummins  Generator  Tech.  India  2007  India Power  Gen
Cummins 	Generator 	Tech.	Wuxi	 2007	 China	 Power	Gen
Cummins  India  Ltd. 2007  India Engine
Cummins  Sales  and Service  2007  India Distribution
 
 Highlighted  sites  represent  enterprise  registrations
57 Environmentthat facilitates  implementation  of a 
common  health,  safety  and environmental  
management  system  (HSEMS)  when  new  
manufacturing  locations  are commissioned.  
The two systems  have  now  been  
successfully  integrated  at the corporate  
level,  supported  by the development  of 
integrated  audit  protocols.   These  efforts  are 
paving  the way for the future  development  
of a combined  HSEMS  enterprise.
Environmental  Management  System
The Enterprise  EMS  was first registered  by 
an independent  third-party  registrar  in 2004,  
when  a total  of four sites  participated.   In 
2007,  Cummins  recertified  the enterprise  
EMS	for	another	three-year 	period.		By	
the end of 2007,  Cummins  had 42 
manufacturing  facilities  and the corporate  
entity  registered  to the ISO 14001  Standard.  
Auditor  Certification  Program
The program  was launched  to support  
Cummins’  efforts  to develop  more  
consistently  robust  auditing  capabilities  and 
develop  employee  functional  excellence.   
Audit  trainees  are called  on to participate  
with HSE  Council  leaders  in site audits  that 
are conducted  to support  new  HSEMS  
registrations  and satisfy  Cummins’  annual  
internal  audit  requirement.   Through  
successful  participation  as a team  member  
in several  audits  and a supervised  event  as 
a lead  auditor,  audit  trainees  themselves  
become  certified  as lead  auditors.   
Not only has this initiative  bolstered  
subject  matter  expertise  and reduced  
Cummins’  dependence  on contractors,  it 
has substantially  facilitated  the sharing  of 
best practices.  Auditors  observe  first-hand  the effective  practices  in place  at the 
audited  site and bring  a fresh  perspective  
to the auditee  by sharing  their  own  
winning  environmental  management  
strategies.   Lead  auditors  are recognized  
at Cummins  annual  HSE  Awards  
Banquet.		Selected	auditors	with	both	
safety  and environmental  responsibilities  
and expertise  are being  certified  within  
both disciplines  to support  the integration  
of these  systems  and the continued  
development  of a HSEMS.   
Environmental  Objectives   
and Targets
Each  year,  the HSE  Council  sets 
objectives  and targets  for the organization  
to ensure  the continual  improvement  of 
Cummins’  environmental  performance.  
The business  units  supplement  these  
with initiatives  of special  importance  and 
interest  to their  respective  businesses.   
The Enterprise  EMS  is the mechanism  
for driving  these  improvements,  which  
can take  any form  that supports  the 
Company’s  efforts  to address  our 
environmental  policy  commitments.    
The	Engine	Business	has	reaped	
significant  environmental  benefits   
from their  focus  on paint  reformulations.    
Also,  all businesses  were  engaged  in 
the work  necessary  to develop  our 
greenhouse  gas emissions  (GHG)  
inventory  and the setting  of an emissions  
reduction  goal  as part of an overall  
objective  to reduce  our carbon  footprint.   
Sites  worldwide  have  completed  
innovative  environmental  projects  – 
such as reducing  packaging  waste,  
recycling  solvents  and coolants  and 
capturing  rain water  for re-use.   Recent  
objectives  and targets  have  included  “I am honored  
to work  at 
a company  
where  success  
is defined  by 
more  than  how  
much  money  
the corporation  
makes.”
Linda  Shi
58                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportCummins’  joint 
venture  with Westport  
Innovations  Inc. has 
resulted  in cutting-
edge  technologies  
that allow  engines  to 
operate  on natural  
gas, hydrogen  and 
hydrogen-enriched  
natural  gas.  About  
1,500  C Gas Plus  
engines  are in service  
in transit  buses  for 
major  U.S.  fleets,  
including  this one in
Tacoma,  Washington.
Introducing  the Next  Generation  
of Clean,  Natural  Gas Engines
*O+VOF$VNNJOT8FTUQPSUJOUSPEVDFEUIFOFYUHFOFSBUJPO
of heavy-duty  natural  gas engines,  the ISL G. The ISL G includes  a 
maintenance-free,  three-way  catalyst  aftertreatment  and Cummins  
QSPWFOFYIBVTUHBTSFDJSDVMBUJPOFOBCMJOHJUUPNFFU&OWJSPONFOUBM
QSPUFDUJPO"HFODZPOSPBE/0YTUBOEBSETUPEBZ*UBMTP
confirms  Cummins  Westport  and Cummins  as leaders  in reliable,  
efficient  power  with the cleanest  emissions.
#PUI0SBOHF$PVOUZBOE4BDSBNFOUP$BMJGPSOJB$VNNJOT
Westport’s  biggest  market,  have  already  ordered  the ISL G for 
use in transit  applications.  
i8IJMFXFSFBUFNJTTJPOTUPEBZUIFSFBMUSBDUJPOGPSPVS
product  in the marketplace  is the emerging  economic  benefits,  and 
UIPTFBSFESJWFOCZUIFQSJDFEJGGFSFOUJBMPGUIFGVFMwTBJE(PSEPO
&YDFM7JDF1SFTJEFOUBOE(FOFSBM.BOBHFS"NFSJDBT"WBJMBCMF
in ratings  from  250 to 320 hp, the ISL G is also an ideal  engine  for 
refuse,  street  sweepers,  medium-duty  trucks  and shuttle  applications.
 ,U]PYVUTLU[Manufacturing  Operations
For perspective  on our areas  of 
environmental  focus  at the facility  level,  
a general  description  of the manufacturing  
operations  by business  unit follows.
Cummins  Engine:  Within  the Cummins  
Engine	Business, 	manufacturing 	facilities	
employees  conduct  product  design,  
research  and development,  engine  
manufacturing  and engine  and component  
reconditioning.   Engine  assembly  facilities  
perform  engine  block  and component  
machining,  assembly,  painting,  alkaline  bath  
parts  washing  and engine  performance  
testing.   Product  design  and engine  testing  
are the primary  operations  in the research  
and development  technical  centers  where  
production  processes  are limited.
Engine  testing  is conducted  in  
stationary  test stands  or cells,  where  
product  performance  information  is 
measured  as engines  run at various  
duty cycles.   Test  cells  also are used  for 
certification  testing  to ensure  products  
meet  emissions  requirements.  Rebuild/
reconditioning  facilities  perform  engine  
tear-down  and reassembly,  using  alkaline  
parts  washing  processes.  
Cummins  Components:   
The Components  Group  includes  four 
separate  business  units;  Cummins  
Filtration,  Cummins  Fuel Systems,  
Cummins  Turbo  Technologies  and 
Cummins  Emission  Solutions.   Facility  
operations  primarily  involve  filtration  and 
exhaust  product  design,  research  and 
development,  filter and exhaust  component  
assembly,  and product  distribution  and 
warehousing.   Key operations  conducted  
among  the Components  Group  divisions  improvements  of the tools  and processes  
that support  collection  and reporting  of 
key environmental  performance  indicators,  
auditor  training  and other  functional  
excellence  initiatives.   Addressing  water  
conservation  and emphasis  on pollution  
prevention  opportunities  will continue  to be 
focus  areas  as well.
Cummins  Launches  
Energy  Efficiency  Initiative
To meet  one of our key climate  change  
objectives,  a Cummins  global  Energy  
Efficiency  Team  conducted  energy  
assessments  at the largest  Cummins’  
sites.  They  identified  more  than  500 
capital  projects  alone  at the first 15 sites  
in the United  States.   Information  from  
these  energy  assessments  was used  to 
set an investment  strategy  and define  an 
improvement  approach  based  on energy-
use categories.   These  categories,  such  
as heating  and cooling,  capturing  waste  
energy  and improved  lighting  are driving  
improvements  in our facilities.   
Grassroots  energy  champions,  working  
with the Energy  Efficiency  Team,  also 
are engaging  employees  to initiate  and 
participate  in energy  conservation  projects.
For example,  at the Consolidated  Diesel  
Company,  Cummins’  joint venture  in 
Rocky  Mount,  North  Carolina,  a project  
was launched  to reduce  the amount  of 
electricity  used  by the plant’s  lighting.  As a 
result,  more  than  800 standard  lights  were  
replaced  with fluorescent  T5 fixtures.  This 
led to a reduction  in electrical  costs  of  
40 percent  and a savings  of 2.4 million  
kilowatt  hours  a year.
 
   “Working  for 
a winning  
organization  
and a  
company  with  
outstanding  
financial  
performance  
like Cummins  
are significant  
factors  in 
keeping  
employee  
morale  high.”
Tina DeMaio
60                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability Reportinclude	filter,	fuel	systems,	turbocharger 	and	exhaust	
component  assembly,  metal  stamping,  tube  bending,  
component  machining,  welding,  product  assembly,  
painting  and performance  testing.   
Cummins  Power  Generation:  Cummins  Power  
Generation 	Business	facility	operations 	primarily	
involve  product  design,  research  and development,  
alternator  manufacturing,  assembly  of generator  
sets, switchgear  and controls  and product  testing.   
Alternator  manufacturing  facilities  perform  component  
machining,  lamination  stamping,  rotor  and stator  
winding,  resin  impregnation  and alternator  assembly.  
Assembly  facilities  perform  housing  fabrication,  
genset  assembly,  switchgear  and controls  
assembly,  painting,  alkaline  bath  parts  washing  and 
genset  performance  testing.   Product  design  and 
performance  testing  are conducted  in the research  
and development  technical  centers.   Genset  testing  
is conducted  in stationary  test stands/cells,  where  
product  performance  information  is measured  while  
gensets  are run at various  duty  cycles.   Test  cells  also 
are used  for certification  testing  to ensure  products  
meet  emissions  requirements.
Waste  Streams
The primary  waste  streams  generated  at Cummins  
manufacturing  facilities  include  waste  paint  and 
associated  materials,  paint  and other  filter media,  
wastewater  sludge  and filter cake,  machine  coolant,  
used  oil and resins.   Metals  and metal  parts  that 
cannot  be reconditioned  for re-use  in Cummins  
products  are salvaged  for off-site  recycling,  as are 
used  oils.  Other  waste  streams  include  filter media  
and resins.   At most  facilities,  machine  coolant  is 
recycled  until ineffective  and ultimately  added  to the 
wastewater  stream  for pretreatment  prior  to discharge  
to public  treatment  works.  Environmental  Performance  Measures
Reporting  Sites
Cummins  has collected  key environmental  
sustainability  measures  from  our facilities  for  
many  years,  focusing  on operations  with the  
greatest  potential  environmental  impact.    
Performance  measures  were  originally  gathered   
and reported  internally  in an effort  to identify  
environmental  performance  improvement  
opportunities.   Data  has subsequently  been  
aggregated  for inclusion  in Cummins’   
Sustainability  Report  and other  reporting  initiatives.
Because	of	Cummins’ 	participation 	in	the	EPA’s	
Climate  Leaders  Program  and its comprehensive  
GHG  inventory  scope  requirements,  the number   
of sites  taking  part in data  gathering  has broadened  
significantly.   In 2008,  all of Cummins-controlled  
sites worldwide  will provide  data  for all applicable  
sustainability  indicators  irrespective  of facility  size 
and operational  scope.   For the purposes  of this 
report,  performance  data  have  been  compiled  from  
two different  data  sets,  which  are indicated  in the 
following  sections  of this report.
The full complement  of sustainability  metrics,  
including  water  use,  recycled  materials,  
commodities  consumed  and wastes,  as well 
as fuels  and electrical  power  usage  and their  
associated  direct  and indirect  emissions  included  
herein  were  derived  from  manufacturing  and large  
non-manufacturing  sites.   These  include  several  
large  joint venture  facilities  that are not under  
Cummins’  operational  control.  Fuels,  electricity  and 
other  GHG  sources  and emissions  were  collected  
from all facilities,  irrespective  of size or function,  
where  Cummins  maintains  operational  control  and 
therefore  are in scope  of our Climate  Leaders  GHG  
reduction  commitment.   The 2007  population  of 
sites in scope  of Climate  Leaders  is 233 facilities.   
Greenhouse  gas and other  fuel/energy  related  
emissions  from  Cummins’  unconsolidated  joint 
venture  businesses  are not included  in this report.
61 EnvironmentMaterials
Category 2005 2006 2007
 Materials  Other  Than  Water
Diesel  Fuel/Fuel  Oil (Gallons) 8,706,939 9,771,249 9,634,265
Natural  Gas (Cubic  Feet) 1,342,803,937 1,381,792,175 1,312,025,265
Propane  (Cubic  Feet) 13,869,356 15,848,347 16,630,595
Oil (Gallons)                            1,686,505 2,403,690 2,323,739
Paint  (Gallons) 293,802 501,743 460,860
Coolant  (Gallons) 825,214 1,430,599 975,424
Solvent  (Gallons) 99,250 160,759 219,593
Total  Water  Use
Total  Water  Use (Gallons) 958,525,983 2,031,633,771 1,302,703,844
Significant  Discharges  to Water  (Gallons)   770,551,878 1,805,807,888 1,121,493,491
Total  Amount  of Waste  by Type
Industrial  Waste  (Metric  Tons) 2,074 2,698 2,543
General  Refuse  (Metric  Tons) 10,351 13,619 14,136
Recycled  Materials
Iron (Metric  Tons) 99,298 114,960 113,114
Aluminum  (Metric  Tons) 978 874 666
$PQQFS#SBTT	.FUSJD5POT
    
Cardboard  (Metric  Tons) 6,601 8,431 9,757
Paper  (Metric  Tons) 281 358 453
Wood  (Metric  Tons) 9,541 16,510 21,834
Plastic  (Metric  Tons) 255 398 735
Reused  Liquid  Waste  (Gallons) 2,750,151 1,086,218 3,222,670
Number  of Reporting  Sites  — Fuels   229 229 233
Number  of Reporting  Sites  — All Other  Metrics   38 54 75
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[Materials  
Cummins’  materials  data  collection  includes  process  
compounds  commonly  used  in the Company’s  
manufacturing  processes.   In addition,  quarterly  
data is reported  and compiled  for wastes,  recycled  
materials,  utilities  and other  key measures.   
Cummins  has increased  the population  of facilities  
reporting  sustainability  metrics  substantially  over  
the last several  years.   The population  of reporting  
sites in 2006  represents  essentially  all of the most  
significant  manufacturing  and non-manufacturing  
operations  in the company.   In 2008  and beyond,   
all controlled  sites  will systematically  report  all 
metrics,  which  will simplify  data  trend  analysis.   
An additional  16 facilities  reported  data  in 2006  
versus  2005.   The substantially  larger  data  set, 
better  measurement  processes  and continued  
company  growth  are collectively  responsible  for 
the increases  for all metrics  in 2006.   Reductions  in 
diesel	and	natural	gas	were	experienced 	in	2007	as	compared  to the prior  year,  as well as for oil,  
paint  and coolant.   These  measures  are likely  due  
in part to reduction  in engine  production  volumes   
over the same  timeframe.   Natural  gas use is tied 
closely	to	weather	and	may	be	in	part	explained 	due	 
to overall  milder  winter  temperatures  in the regions   
in which  Cummins  operates.   Increases  in quantities   
of recycled  materials  generally  reflect  improvements   
in supporting  processes  worldwide.   
Totals  for recycled  paper,  plastic  and wood  are 
understated  because  at several  locations  load  weights  
are unavailable.   Significant  discharges  to water  also 
are estimated  because  these  are not directly  measured  
at all worldwide  locations.
Re-used  liquid  wastes  represent  estimated  quantities  
of industrial  process  wastes  reclaimed  for re-use  or 
otherwise  returned  to process  as feedstock  in cement  
kilns or blended  fuels.   These  include  oil, coolants,  
solvents  and thinners  and residual  fluids  primarily  from  
painting  processes.Data for NOx,  CO, PM and CO2 for 2005  and 2006  were  developed  from  the 229 sites  reporting  fuels  and electricity   
for the GHG  inventory.   Totals  for VOC  for these  same  years  are based  on data  from  the manufacturing  and larger   
non-manufacturing  sites,  of which,  38 reported  in 2005  and 53 in 2006.   
Emissions  from  diesel  fuel used  in product  testing  applications  and No. 2 fuel oil, propane  and natural  gas used  in boilers   
and furnaces  were  derived  using  EPA  AP-42  Compilation  of Air Pollutant  Emission  Factors,  1996.  
AP-42  emissions  conversions  used  for large  diesel  engines  are based  on obsolete  technology,  so emissions  data  is overstated.Other  Significant  Direct  Air Emissions
Category  (Metric  Tons)   2005  2006  2007
NOx	 	 2,565	 2,863	 2,816
CO  566 631 620
PM10   172 193 190
VOC  791 2,537  848
Number	of	Reporting 	sites	—	NOx,	CO	and	PM10	 	 229	 229	 233
Number  of Reporting  sites—  VOCs   38 53 75
63 EnvironmentThe above  table  lists direct  and indirect  energy  consumption  calculated  on the basis  of use of fuels  
and electricity  over  the reporting  timeframe.
testing  operations  related  to production  
and research  and development.   Many  
of the Cummins  facilities  in the various  
businesses  employ  processes  that use 
natural  gas-fired  or electric  industrial  
ovens  or other  heat  treatments  and 
related  processes.
5IF&OFSHZ4PMVUJPOT#VTJOFTT	&4#
JTB
business  of Cummins  Power  Generation  
that sells  the natural  gas and biogas-fueled  
generator  sets as well as cogeneration  
BOEPUIFSQPXFSQMBOUFRVJQNFOU&4#
commercializes  these  sets through  sales,  
design  and construction  of turnkey  power  
plant  solutions  and,  in some  cases,  operates  
the plant  after  construction  and maintains  
some  equity  ownership  in the project.  
Cummins  measures  the fuel consumption  
and emissions  in support  of the Climate  Greenhouse  Gas List
Cummins’  inventory  includes  CO2, CH4,
N2O emissions  from  electricity  and fuel 
consumption,  HFC  emissions  from  refrigerant  
use, and CO2 and SF6 emissions  from  
manufacturing  process  use.   Cummins  has 
no emissions  of PFCs.   
Direct  Emission  Sources
Direct  Sources
Electricity  use is the most  significant  source  
of GHG  emissions  associated  with Cummins’  
operations.   In addition,  as an organization  
that manufactures  and assembles  diesel  
engines  and related  components,  a 
substantial  portion  of Cummins’  overall  GHG  
emissions  are a direct  result  of the engine  Energy  and Fuels/Greenhouse  Gas Emissions
Category  2005 2006 2007
Direct  (Gigajoules)
Fuel Oil/Diesel  1,258,524 1,412,362 1,392,562
Natural  Gas 1,487,520 1,540,257 1,453,473
Propane 36,401 41,595 43,648
Indirect    
Electricity  (Gigajoules) 2,599,207 2,623,729 2,727,567
Electricity  (KwH) 722,001,873 728, 813,  588 757,657,400
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[Leaders  initiative  where  the Company  manages  the 
complete  operations  and maintenance  services.   
 
Historically,  fugitive  GHG  emissions  were   
generated  at the Findlay,  Ohio  facility  through   
the	process	of	injection	of	sulfur	hexafluoride 	(SF6) 
into sealed  gas bags,  which  were  sold  as product.    
This process  was discontinued  in mid-2008.    
Other  fugitive  emissions  are associated  with use  
of CO2 gas as a welding  shield  systems  and 
refrigerant  loss typical  through  use of heating,  
ventilation  and air-conditioning  systems.  
Indirect  Sources
The inventory  includes  consumption  of electricity,  
which  is used  by all facilities.   It also includes  
purchased  steam  consumption  from  one facility  in 
China  and purchased  hot water  consumption   
from one facility  in Romania.   Greenhouse  Gas  
Emissions  Calculations
Indirect  emissions  calculations  from  electricity  use 
take into account  the carbon  intensity  of the fuel 
and technology  used  to generate  the power.    
A determination  of the electricity  emissions  in  
the U.S.  was made  using  emission  factors  from  
the EPA  eGRID  emissions  database.   All other  
greenhouse  gas emissions  are calculated  using  
emission  quantification  methodologies  taken  from  
the Climate  Leaders  Greenhouse  Gas Inventory  
Protocol:  Core  Module  Guidance  documents  for 
the appropriate  emissions  sources.   These  factors  
are kept  up to date  by reviewing  any revisions  to 
Climate  Leaders  guidance  documents.Direct  Emission  Sources
Emissions  Type  Emissions  Sources
Stationary 	Combustion 	Sources	 •		Industrial	Boilers	(Natural	Gas	and	Diesel	Fuel) 
	 •		Industrial	Furnaces	(Natural	Gas	and	Electric)  
	 •		Engine	Test	Cells	(Natural	Gas,	Diesel	Fuel,	Gasoline	and	Propane)  
	 •		Generator 	Sets	(Diesel	Fuel) 
	 •		Process	ovens/heating 	units	(Natural	Gas	and	Electric)  
	 •		Electricity 	generating 	systems	at	customer 	sites
Mobile	Sources	 •		Company 	owned/leased 	vehicles	(Diesel	Fuel	and	Gasoline)  
	 •		Forklift	Vehicles	(Propane	and	Diesel	Fuel) 
	 •		Corporate 	Aviation	(Jet	Fuel)
Process	/	Fugitive	Emissions	 •		Manufacturing 	process	–	SF6 
	 •		Welding	operations 	–	CO2 
	 •		Air	conditioning 	equipment 	–	HFCs
This table  identifies  the sources  of direct  GHG  emissions  that are associated  with Cummins’  manufacturing,  
assembly  and distribution  operations.
65 EnvironmentSignificant  
emissions  
reductions  
have  been  
accomplished  
at Cummins  
through  
increased  
efficiencies  
resulting  from  
Six Sigma  
projects.U.S. and Non U.S. Greenhouse  Gas Emissions  Inventory  – CO2-eq. (metric  tons)  
 
U.S. Emissions   2005  2006  2007
Direct  Emissions     
Stationary  Combustion  Sources   108,455  114,775  104,395
Mobile	Combustion 	Sources*	 	 7,868	 9,115	 9,160
Process  / Fugitive    117,353  127,594  161,978
Total  Direct  Emissions   233,676  251,483  275,533
Indirect  Emissions     
Purchased  and Used  Electricity   348,280  346,399  354,379
Total  Indirect  Emissions   348,280  346,399  354,379
Direct  + Indirect     
Total  U.S. Emissions   581,956  597,882  629,911
Non U.S.  Emissions          2005  2006  2007
Direct  Emissions    
Stationary  Combustion  Sources   55,836  62,805  68,105
Mobile	Combustion 	Sources*	 	 14,557	 14,557	 14,693
Process  / Fugitive    2,514  2,595  3,129
Total  Direct  Emissions   72,907  79,956  85,927
Indirect  Emissions     
Purchased  and Used  Electricity   99,243  101,389  116,614
Purchased 	and	Used	Steam*	 	 65	 65	 65
Purchased 	and	Used	Hot	Water*	 	 531	 531	 531
Total  Indirect  Emissions   99,839  101,985  117,210
Total  Non-U.S.  Emissions   172,746  181,941  203,138
Total  U.S.  and Non-U.S.  Emissions     2005  2006  2007
Direct  Emissions     
Stationary  Combustion  Sources   164,291  177,580  172,500
Mobile	Combustion 	Sources*	 	 22,425	 23,672	 23,853
Process  / Fugitive   119,867  130,188  165,108
Total  Direct  Emissions   306, 583 331,440  361,461
Indirect  Emissions     
Purchased  and Used  Electricity   447,523  447,787  470,992
Purchased 	and	Used	Steam*	 	 65	 65	 65
Purchased 	and	Used	Hot	Water*	 	 531	 531	 531
Total  Indirect  Emissions   448,119  448,383  471,588
Total  Worldwide  Emissions   754,701  779,823  833,049
*	Estimates
66                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportOzone  Depleting  Substances
In 1995,  Cummins  implemented  a policy  that 
stationary  equipment  using  chlorofluorocarbons  
(CFCs)  would  no longer  be purchased  by 
Cummins.   Equipment  already  in place  would  
be considered  for conversion  or replacement  
depending  on its age and repair  costs.   As a result  
of this policy,  Cummins  has replaced  an estimated  
60 percent  of its equipment  containing  ozone-
depleting  substances.  
Interactions  with  Regulatory  Agencies
Cummins  Filtration  – Lake  Mills  
On June  20, 2006,  the U.S.  Environmental  
Protection  Agency  (EPA)  inspected  the Cummins  
Filtration  facility  in Lake  Mills,  Iowa.   As a result  
of the inspection,  the EPA  issued  a Notice  of 
Preliminary  Findings  (NOPFs)  that included  the 
following  details:t'BJMVSFUPNBSLVTFEPJMQJQJOHXJUIUIFXPSET
iVTFEPJMw
t'BJMVSFUPFOTVSFDPOUBJOFSTPGIB[BSEPVT
waste  remained  closed;
t'BJMVSFUPNBOBHFVOJWFSTBMXBTUFJO
closed  containers.
The facility  implemented  the necessary  corrective  
measures  and submitted  evidence  of those  
measures  to the Environmental  Protection  Agency.   
No monetary  penalties  were  imposed.
Cummins  Filtration  – Cookeville  
On September  13, 2006,  the Tennessee  Division  
of Solid  Waste  Management  conducted  a 
compliance  evaluation  at the Cummins  Filtration  
facility  in Cookeville,  Tennessee.   As a result  of 
the inspection,  a Notice  of Violation  (NOV)  was 
received  by the plant  on October  6, 2006,  for failing  
to manage  the frames  from  the silk screen  printing  Total  GHG  Emissions  in Metric  Tons  CO2e
Emissions  Source 2005 2006 2007
Electricity 447,523 447,787 470,992
Stationary  combustion 164,291 177,580 172,500
Fugitive  SF6,  CO2 114,426 124,638 159,080
Mobile  sources,  other  28,462 29,818 30,477
Total 754,701 779,823 833,049
 ,U]PYVUTLU[Environmental  Clean-Up  Efforts
Cummins  has also been  identified  as a 
PRP at 17 waste  disposal  sites  under  
federal  and state  environmental  statutes,  
three  of which  we expect  could  result  
in expenditures  in excess  of $100,000  
or more  based  upon  our estimated  
proportional  volume  of waste  disposed  at 
these  sites.   
These  sites  and our estimated  exposure  
are as follows:  the Operating  Industries,  
Inc. Site in Monterey  Park,  California  
($211,000),  the Casmalia  Site in Santa  
Barbara,	California	($150,000) 	and	the	
Double  Eagle  Refinery  Site in Oklahoma  
City, Oklahoma  ($100,000).   
Finally,  Cummins  has environmental  
remediation  projects  ongoing  under  the 
auspices  of local  regulatory  agencies  at 
our	plant	in	Brazil;	our	plant	in	Memphis, 	
Tennessee,  and a former  facility  in 
Canton,  South  Dakota;  and at one of our 
plants  in the United  Kingdom.   The cost  
of each  of these  projects  may  exceed  
$100,000.   Cummins  does  not believe  
that the aggregate  liability  for resolution  
of the Superfund  Sites  or the plant  
remediation  projects  will be material   
for 2008.  
Cummins  MidRange   
Engine  Plant  Recognized  for 
Environmental  Leadership  
IDEM  recently  recognized  Cummins  
Columbus  Midrange  Engine  Plant  
(CMEP)  for its commitment  to minimizing  
environmental  impacts.  In a ceremony  
at the plant  in April,  2008.   IDEM  
Commissioner  Thomas  W. Easterly  process  as a hazardous  waste.   Immediately  
following  the September  13, 2006,  
inspection,  Cummins  Filtration  implemented  
all of the necessary  corrective  measures.   
On March  9, 2007,  Cummins  Filtration  paid  
$1,258.88  in damages  and $9,100.00  in 
Civil Penalties  to the State  of Tennessee.
Cummins  Filtration  – Cookeville  
On June  13, 2007,  the Cummins  Filtration  
facility  in Cookeville,  Tennessee  received  a 
NOV letter  from  the Tennessee  Department  
of Environment  and Conservation,  that 
was related  to the failure  of the facility  to 
submit  a Title V Semi-Annual  report  within  
sixty days  of the June  30, 2006,  due date.   
Cummins  Filtration  immediately  implemented  
the necessary  corrective  measures  and  
no further  action  was taken  by the State   
of Tennessee.  
Cummins  Inc. – Olympic   
Testing  Facility  
On November  9, 2006,  the Indiana  
Department  of Environmental  Management  
(IDEM)  issued  a NOV  letter  stating  they  had 
not received  the Title V Annual  Compliance  
Certification  Report  due from  the facility  on 
July 1, 2006.   Although  Cummins  had mailed  
the report  via certified  mail in March  of 2006,  
IDEM  was unable  to locate  the report  and 
Cummins  was unable  to produce  the receipt.   
As a result,  Cummins  was ordered  to pay 
a fine of $2,750.00,  which  was received  by 
IDEM  on January  8, 2007.“We view  our 
vendors  and 
suppliers  as 
partners,  and 
we understand  
that their  
success  will 
help us achieve  
our goals.”
Rachel  
Quisenberry
68                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportBOE"TTJTUBOU$PNNJTTJPOFS3JDL#PTTJOHIBN
announced  Cummins’  acceptance  into of 
Indiana’s  Environmental  Stewardship  Program  
	&41
&OHJOF#VTJOFTT1SFTJEFOU+JN,FMMZ
CMEP  Plant  Manager  Andy  Cesarksi  and the 
CMEP  environmental  team  were  on hand  to 
receive  the award.  
IDEM  invited  Cummins  to join ESP  because  of 
the Company’s  compliance  record,  implemented  
environmental  management  system  and its 
commitment  to continual  improvement  in 
the environmental  arena.  CMEP’s  successful  
reduction  of volatile  organic  compound  emissions  
resulting  from  the substitution  of a solvent-based  
paint  to a water-based  paint  for the engines  it 
produces  was highlighted.  
i$VNNJOT$PMVNCVT.JE3BOHF&OHJOF1MBOU
IBTFBSOFEJUTQMBDFBTBOFX&41NFNCFSw
TBJE&BTUFSMZi*OEJBOBXJOTXIFOcompanies  like Cummins  use sound  business  
practices  to demonstrate  their  core  value  of 
FOWJSPONFOUBMQSPUFDUJPOw
ESP is a voluntary,  performance  based  leadership  
program  designed  to recognize  and reward  
Indiana  regulated  entities  for going  above  and 
beyond  current  environmental  regulations.   
3FHVMBUPSZGMFYJCJMJUZJODFOUJWFTFBSOFECZ
members  are designed  to provide  business  
value,  reduce  regulatory  oversight,  allow  a shift 
in resources  from  compliance  driven  to achieving  
results  and provide  the member  with increased  
PQFSBUJPOBMGMFYJCJMJUZ
The Columbus  Engine  Plant  and the Columbus  
Fuel Systems  Plant  have  also been  accepted  into 
the Indiana  ESP.2007  GHG  Emissions  by Business  Unit 2007  GHG  Emissions  by Country
 48% Engine  Business
 30% Filtration
 7% Power  Generation
 6% Fuel  Systems  
 4% Distribution
 3% Turbo  Technologies
 2% Corporate  
1%Emission Solutions 76% United  States
 8% India
 7% United  Kingdom
 3% Mexico
 2% China
 1% Other  Europe
 4% Other
These  charts  illustrate  the relative  share  of 2007  emissions  by business  unit and by country.
 ,U]PYVUTLU[reduce  the metals  content.   Successful  
reformulations  were  developed,  which  
met product  quality  requirements  and 
resulted  in a more  environmentally-friendly  
coating.   As a result  of the largely  metal-free  
formulation,  hazardous  wastes  generated  
BUTJY8JTDPOTJOFYIBVTUDPNQPOFOU
manufacturing  plants  were  reduced  by 
QFSDFOU*OBEEJUJPOFBDIPGUIFTJY
participating  plants  reduced  their  hazardous  
waste  generator  status  from  large  quantity  
to that of a small  quantity  generator.
Analysis-Led  Design  
In analysis-led  design,  computer  simulations  
replace  traditional  hardware  testing,  
which  involves  building  and testing  many  
FYQFOTJWFQSPUPUZQFT*OTUFBEBiWJSUVBM
FOHJOFwJTCVJMUBOEUIFOUFTUFEJOB
computer  simulation  that allows  us to look  
at more  designs  in a shorter  time.  Operational  Methods  
that Improve  Energy  Use
Continual  Improvement  
and Six Sigma
4JY4JHNBJTUIFLFZQSPCMFNTPMWJOH
tool used  by Cummins  for environmental  
improvement  projects.  From  a facilities  
perspective,  Cummins  has implemented  
a number  of projects  to address  
sustainability  issues,  including  natural  
resource  conservation  and pollution  
QSFWFOUJPO#PUIPGUIFTFIBWFCFFOB
continual  improvement  focus  at Cummins  
for several  years.   
"HPPEFYBNQMFPGPVS4JY4JHNBFGGPSUT
includes  the work  Cummins  Filtration  did 
with paint  suppliers  to reformulate  coatings  
BQQMJFEUPFYIBVTUQSPEVDUTUPTJHOJGJDBOUMZGreenhouse  gas emissions  increased  by 6.8%  from  2006  to 2007  and 10.4%  as compared  to the base  
year 2005.   Sales  increased  15%  year  over  year  over  the same  timeframe  — equating  to an overall  
increase  in sales  of 31.6%.   After  an adjustment  for inflation  to 2005  dollars,  Cummins  has achieved  a 
normalized  reduction  of 10%  over  the timeframe.Normalized  GHG  Emissions  Goal  Tracking
2005  to 2007  Greenhouse  Gas Emissions,  Normalized  to Revenue
2005-2007
2005 2006 2007 % change
Total  emissions  
(metric  tons  CO2-equivalent) 754,701 779,823 833,049 10.4%
Gross  revenue  ($ millions) $9,917.80 $11,362.40 $13,048.00 31.6%
Inflation-adjusted  Revenue  
(constant  2005  $ millions) $9,917.80 $10,935.90 $12,157.50 22.6%
Normalized  Emissions  
(tCO2e per 2005  $ millions) 76.10 71.31 68.52 -10.0%
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[Using  analysis-led  design  on our recent  product  
launches  has allowed  us to increase  the number  of 
analysis  hours  by as much  as 200 percent,  while  
cutting  total  program  costs  by more  than  20 percent.  
In one engine  family  alone,  more  than  10,000  hours  
PGUFTUJOHXBTBWPJEFEoBMPOHXJUIUIFQSPUPUZQFT
that go along  with it. 
The process  yields  better  designs  faster,  at a lower  
cost and with substantial  reductions  in test cell time  
and the fuel use and its associated  emissions.  
Verification  of Manufacturing  Quality  
Engine  attribute  testing  requirements  have  been  
reduced  on certain  product  lines  because  in-process  
verification  allows  the identification  of potential  
problems  upstream  of the test cell process.  This 
product  quality  initiative  promotes  the concept  of 
i3JHIU'JSTU5JNFwBNPSFFGGFDUJWFNFBOTPGUFTUJOH
a component  and engine  system,  with an associated  
environmental  benefit.  Energy  Conservation  and Cost  
Containment  at Cummins  Facilities
Cummins’  energy  costs  are increasing,  
although  we try to minimize  the financial  impact  
of these  increases  by informed  and competitive  
buying  strategies  in areas  where  we have  
manufacturing  operations.   
Cummins’  consumption  of fossil  fuels  and electric  
power  represented  significantly  less than  1 percent  
of sales  in 2005  and in 2006.  With  the forward  
contract  purchases  of utilities  in selected  regions,  
we are able  to postpone  or lessen  the impact  of 
rising  energy  costs  on our facilities  worldwide.
In early  2006,  Cummins’  European  Operations  
contracted  for delivery  of 63 million  kWh  of 
FMFDUSJDJUZHFOFSBUFEGSPNA(PPE2VBMJUZ$PNCJOFE
)FBUBOE1PXFS	(2$)1
XIJDIXBTEFMJWFSFE
in the fall of 2006  for one year.   This represented  
97 percent  of Cummins’  U.K.  requirements  for the 
contract  year.   2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 201030
20
10
0
-10
-20
-30Adjusted  Revenue
Emissions
Normalized  Emissions
Normalized  Emissions  GoalNormalized  GHG  Emissions  Change  from  2005  to 2007  (%)
This graph  depicts  Cummins’  progress  against  its stated  reduction  goal  of 25%  normalized  to sales,  and shows  that 
the Company  is on the path  to achieving  its goal.   This goal  tracking  graph  will be updated  and revisited  as the Company  
implements  the many  energy  efficiency  projects  that have  been  identified.
 ,U]PYVUTLU[In addition,  electricity  for Cummins’  
PQFSBUJPOTJO.FDIFMFO#FMHJVN
includes  1.005MW  of 100 percent  
Norwegian  hydro  power  procured  at 
a competitive  price.   This power  source  
also yields  zero  GHG  emissions.
And, once  again,  power  generation  
capability  at two of our U.K.  sites  allowed  
VTUPTFMMTPNFFYDFTTFOFSHZCBDLJOUP
the U.K.  distribution  network,  although  on 
a lesser  scale  than  in previous  years.
Natural  gas procurement  for all U.K.  
sites from  mid-year  2007  to 2008  
allowed  for cost  reductions  at all entities  
with an average  savings  of 41.5  percent.
The outlook  for 2008/2009  for both  
electricity  and natural  gas is not very 
optimistic,  with significant  increases  in 
cost anticipated  across  Europe.(2$)1JTUIFTJNVMUBOFPVTHFOFSBUJPO
of electricity  and useful  heat  from  a single  
fuel source,  and is a generation  technology  
UIBUTJHOJGJDBOUMZSFEVDFTDBSCPOEJPYJEF
emissions  to the atmosphere.   It is 
SFDPHOJ[FEBTBAHSFFOHFOFSBUJPOTPVSDF
by the U.K.  government  and,  as such,  is 
FYFNQUFEGSPNUIF6,(PWFSONFOUT
A$MJNBUF$IBOHF-FWZDIBSHF
Electrical  power  procured  for U.K.  
manufacturing  sites  for a year-long  
contract  beginning  in October  2007  not 
only allowed  for cost  reductions  of 31 
percent,  but with an added  bonus  of 
QFSDFOUAUSVFHSFFOQPXFSTPVSDFT
The technologies  that provide  the power  
yield zero  GHG  emissions.   
Cummins’  suppliers  of zero  emissions  
power  include  the following  technologies:  
t.8PGi3VOPGUIF3JWFSwIZESP
electric  power  from  the North  of Scotland  
t.8GSPNXJOEGBSNT
t5JEBMQPXFSVOEFSUSJBM
in Orkney,  Scotland
t#JPNBTTGVFMJOHPGUIFSNBMQPXFS
The environmentally-friendly  U.K.  power  
purchase  in 2007  will have  saved  an 
estimated  27,000  metric  tons  of CO2
emissions  associated  with Cummins’  
U.K. operations.
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[The User-Friendly  Filter:   
A Sustainability  Success  Story   
Follow-Up
In our previous  Sustainability  Report,  we featured  the new  User-Friendly  
Filter.  Its success  is continuing  to grow.
At the 2007  Technology  and Maintenance  Council  (TMC)  meeting  in  
Tampa,  Fla.,  the Technical  Writers  of North  America  (TWNA)  recognized  
Cummins  Filtration’s  Fleetguard  user-friendly  line of fuel and oil filters  as 
the top Technical  Achievement  for 2006.
Among  an impressive  group  of finalists,  the Fleetguard  user-friendly  
filters  were  the unanimous  choice  of the selection  committee  for the 
achievement  award.  The selection  committee  said the Fleetguard  filter  
was	“a	shining	example	that	innovation 	is	everywhere.”
Other  awards  received  by Cummins  Filtration  for the user-friendly  filters  
are Equipment  World’s  Top 5 Most  Innovative  Products,  Heavy  Duty  
Trucking’s  Nifty  Fifty Award  and Construction  News’  Top 100 Award.
The filter has significantly  less environmental  impact  than  a steel  filter;  
requiring  a third  less in material  cost  and presenting  unprecedented  design  
serviceability 	for	customers, 	including	ribbed	“grips”	for	easy	installation.
In 2007,  Cummins  replaced  650,000  filters  with user-friendly  filters,   
saving  350 gallons  of paint  annually  and an associated  reduction  in  
volatile  organic  compounds  emissions  (VOCs)  of 1,250  pounds.
In addition,  the reformulated  paper  filter media  for this product  line, with 
the	“no	cure”	plant	process,	further	reduced	VOCs	by	an	additional 	4,500	
pounds.	Finally,	eliminating 	plastisol	adhesive	in	approximately 	1.1	million	
plastic  and metal  filters  has reduced  another  1,200  pounds  of VOCs.
73 EnvironmentOur goal  is to 
make  Cummins  
a best-in-class  
company  when  it 
comes  to safety.
Safety
#ZNBOZNFBTVSFT$VNNJOTEPFTBHPPE
job of providing  clean,  safe and healthy  
XPSLQMBDFTGPSJUTFNQMPZFFT'PSFYBNQMF
the company-wide  incidence  rate in 2007  
XBToCFUUFSUIBOUIFUBSHFUPG
and significantly  better  than  our industry  
average.  We had 30 sites  go the entire  
year without  a single  reportable  incident.  
Likewise,  a severity  rate of 0.58  was below  
the target  of 1.0, while  lost work  days  rate 
was just a bit above  target.
These  are positive  signs  that Cummins  
takes  this issue  seriously  and is doing  many  
of the right  things.  Still, we had too many  
NBKPSTBGFUZJODJEFOUTJOoJODMVEJOH
two deaths  and a serious  injury  late in the 
year.  Even  a single  major  safety  incident  is 
one too many,  and obviously  a work-related  
death  in our facilities  is simply  intolerable.  
The majority  of those  incidents  can be 
directly  traced  to a lack of standard  operating  procedures  in facilities  or failure  
to enforce  safety  procedures,  followed  by 
workers  being  injured  as a result  of poor  
quality  equipment.
The most  severe  injuries  have  occurred  
when  workers  were  performing  non-routine  
work  on manufacturing  equipment  without  
first following  the necessary  Lock  Out,  Tag 
Out procedures.  Additionally,  analysis  has 
shown  that contract  workers  in our facilities  
are less informed  and less trained  on our 
safety  practices,  resulting  in a greater  risk of 
injury  to those  workers.
In addition  to some  specific  actions  aimed  at 
improving  safety  in our China  facilities,  which  
suffered  two fatalities  late in 2007,  Cummins  
will be implementing  a number  of actions  
and process  changes  across  the Company.  
These  changes  are aimed  at better  
educating  our employees  on key safety  
practices,  identifying  and implementing  best  Providing  a Safe  Working  Environment
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[QSBDUJDFTBOEVODPWFSJOHHBQTJOPVSTBGFUZFGGPSUTo
and then  closing  them  as quickly  as possible.
They include:  
t*NQMFNFOUJOHTUBOEBSE-PDL0VU5BH0VU
procedures  worldwide
t*NQSPWJOHTBGFUZUSBJOJOHGPSDPOUSBDUXPSLFST
t*NQSPWJOHNBUFSJBMTIBOEMJOHQSBDUJDFT
t*NQMFNFOUJOHBMFBEFSTIJQTBGFUZBOEBXBSFOFTT
and accountability  program
t*NQMFNFOUJOHBESJWFSTBGFUZQSPHSBN
In addition,  we will strengthen  our reporting  and 
auditing  processes  around  safety,  provide  clearer  
safety  policies  at our JV operations  and recommit  
to our zero  tolerance  policy  for safety  violations.As part of this effort,  we also are tightening  our 
safety  targets  companywide.  The new  targets  
XJMMCF*ODJEFODFSBUFo	WTJO

4FWFSJUZDBTFSBUFo	WT
4FWFSJUZMPTU
XPSLEBZTSBUFo	WT

Our goal  is to make  Cummins  a best-in-class  
company  when  it comes  to safety.
Safety  Management  System  
The Cummins  Safety  System  is one way Cummins  
can ensure  safety  programs  like those  mentioned  
above  become  ingrained  as a way of working,  
managing  and operating  at Cummins.   Cummins  
Safety  System  is based  on the Occupational  Health  
and Safety  Assessment  Series  (OHSAS)  18001  
specification,  an international  occupational  health  
and safety  management  system.  The purpose  of the 
specification  is to enable  the organization  to control  
its occupational  health  and safety  risks  and improve  
its safety  performance.  Registration  of the Corporate  
 :HML[`system  performance  has been  maintained  
or improved.  
Safety  and Environmental  Awards
In order  to recognize  outstanding  
performance,  the Health,  Safety  and 
Environmental  Council  presents  awards  
to those  Cummins  entities  that best  
demonstrated  excellence  in one or both  of 
these  areas.  Through  their  efforts,  these  
sites are instrumental  in helping  Cummins  
meet  the commitments  of the Company’s  
Vision  and Mission.   The Council  
evaluated  the performance  of each  entity,  
using  the following  criteria:  
•	Benefit	to	environment 	and	safety
•	Level	of	management 	 
and employee  commitment
•	Economic 	efficiency
•	Innovation
•	Ability	to	serve	as	a	model	for	use	 
by others
The environmental  awards  focus  on 
projects  and initiatives  that promote  
sustainability,  emissions  reductions  and 
the conservation  of natural  resources.   
Bonus	points	are	awarded	for	site	
recognition  in government  and non-
governmental  organizations’  environmental  
stewardship  programs.  
Entities  are recognized  at four distinct  
levels;	Chairman, 	Business	Unit/HSE	
Council,	Director	and	Best	Practice.	
The HSE  Council  also honored  several  
individuals,  including  facility  HSE  leaders  
and plant  managers,  for their  personal  
commitment  and efforts  to improve  safety  
and environmental  performance.  and three  site systems  meeting  the OHSAS  
18001  specification  was completed  in 2007,  
with aggressive  growth  planned  in 2008.  
The following  sites  have  been  successfully  
registered  to the OHSAS  18001  specification:  
•	Cummins 	Filtration,	Viroqua	
•	Cummins 	Parts	and	Service,	SLP,	Mexico
•	Cummins 	Generator 	Technologies, 	 
SLP, Mexico  
Cummins  Safety  System  
(CSS Audits)  
The CSS  Audit  is based  on the 10 Cummins  
Operating  System  statements,  and defines  
within  its eight  criteria  statements  the 
minimum  safety  requirements  for the 
Company.  Audit  scores  enable  Cummins  
facilities  globally  to benchmark  themselves  
against  each  other  and against  the 
Company’s  standards.  Sites  whose  previous  
year performance  did not meet  the Incidence  
Rate (iR) and SLWR  targets  are required  to 
participate  in the CSS  Audit  program.  
CSS Audits  are conducted  in three  phases:  
Pre-Audit:  A pre-audit  is performed  to 
identify  the gaps  between  current  site 
practices  and the system  requirements.  
The pre-audit  is conducted  three  to six 
months  before  the formal  audit.  
Formal  Audit:   A formal  audit  is conducted  
with the participation  of corporate  lead  
auditors,  to determine  level  of conformance  
to CSS  criteria.  The site must  have  
participated  at least  in the formal  audit  stage  
to be eligible  for the Company’s  internal  
Health  and Safety  recognition  program.  
Verification  Audit:  A verification  audit   
is performed  following  the formal  audit   
when  the site needs  to demonstrate  safety  “The  safety  and 
well-being  of our 
employees  is a 
primary  concern  
of Cummins,  
and we are 
renewing  our 
efforts  to enhance  
performance  in 
this critical  area.”
Karl Mindeman
76                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportMark  Dhennin  
(second  from  left) 
was honored  in 
2007  for his safety  
leadership  in the 
Power  Generation  
business.  Over  
the last two 
years,  Power  
Generation’s  
overall  safety  
incident  rate,  lost 
day’s  rate and 
severity  case  rate 
have improved  by 
20-40  percent.  
Fridley’s  Safety  Secrets
Fridley,  Minnesota  serves  as headquarters  for Cummins  Power  
Generation  and as a manufacturing  center  for Cummins  generator  
sets and electronic  controls.  In 2007,  the Fridley  plant  reached  a new  
goal of more  than  2 million  work  hours  without  a lost time  injury.  
An ever-evolving  safety  program  at Fridley  has resulted  in a steady  
EFDMJOFJOTBGFUZJODJEFOUTPWFSUIFQBTUTJYZFBST5IFTFDSFUTUFNT
from two simple,  but effective  practices.  
'JSTUiOFBSIJUwSFWJFXTIBWFCFDPNFBTUBOEBSEQSBDUJDF8IJMF
FWFSZSFDPSEBCMFJOKVSZJTJOWFTUJHBUFEGBSNPSFDPNNPOJTUIFiOFBS
IJUwSFWJFX"OFBSIJUJODMVEFTBDPOEJUJPOPSBDUUIBUDPVMEIBWF
resulted  in injury  or property  damage.  Any employee  may  report  a 
near-hit  to the Safety  department.  The number  of near-hit  reviews  has 
outnumbered  recordable  reviews  by more  than  6-to-1  over  the past  
GFXNPOUITSFTVMUJOHJOBXJEFSBOHFPGQSPBDUJWFGJYFT
The second  practice  is the weekly  safety  orientation  that details  
available  plant  safety  resources,  safety  practices  and a review  of 
GBDJMJUZTUBOEBSETBOEFYQFDUBUJPOT"TDBOPGSFDPSEBCMFJOKVSZEBUB
revealed  that more  than  one third  of Fridley’s  recordable  injuries  
involved  new  employees  or those  who  had recently  moved  to a 
different  department.  Safety  orientation  now  occurs  every  Monday  
and is attended  by all new  hires  and contingent  employees  before  
they even  step  into their  departments.   
 :HML[`Among  the would-be  wastes  was demolished  
concrete,  which  was re-used  as rip-rap  in a 
#BSUIPMPNFX$PVOUZ*OEJBOBFSPTJPODPOUSPM
project.   A total  of 15,588  tons  of rubble  
JOUSJBYMFUSVDLMPBETXFSFSFVTFEPO
the project.   Office  equipment  and supplies,  
from projectors  to staplers,  were  donated  
UPUIF6OJUFE8BZBOEUIFi-JUUMF3FE
4DIPPMIPVTF5PPwQSPHSBNUIFMBUUFSTFSWJOH
as a resource  for area  teachers  to obtain  
school  supplies  at no cost.   In addition,  
lumber  collected  from  demolition  activities  
and shipping  containers  was either  given  to 
project  contractors  for re-use  or donated  
to the City of Columbus,  which  chipped  the 
material  for re-use  as landscaping  mulch.
The environment  award  winners  were:
Chairman
t+BNFTUPXO&OHJOF1MBOU
t$PMVNCVT&OHJOF1MBOU
Business  Unit/HSE  Council
t$VNNJOT5VSCP5FDIOPMPHJFT
Huddersfield
t$PMVNCVT.JE3BOHF&OHJOF1MBOU
t$VNNJOT'VFM4ZTUFNT1MBOU$PMVNCVT
t$VNNJOT1PXFS(FOFSBUJPO4UBNGPSE
Director
t$VNNJOT5VSCP5FDIOPMPHJFT
Limited,  India
t&NJTTJPO4PMVUJPOT.JOFSBM1PJOU
t$VNNJOT1PXFS(FOFSBUJPO'SJEMFZ
t%BWFOUSZ&OHJOF1MBOUTo recognize  achievements  in areas  where  
Cummins  has widened  its environmental  
focus,  we have  now  established  awards  for 
the following  categories:
t%FTJHOGPS&OWJSPONFOU
t$IBJSNBOT"XBSETGPS&OFSHZ&GGJDJFODZ
t$IBJSNBOT"XBSEGPS(SFFO#VJMEJOH
The Jamestown,  New  York   Engine  Plant  
was awarded  the Chairman’s  Award  for 
Environment  in 2006.   JEP was selected  for 
this award  based  on a three-year  project  to 
switch  the eight  colors  of production  paint  
used  at the plant  from  solvent-based  paint  
to water-borne  paint.   The project  began  
BTB4JY4JHNBFGGPSUJOUFHSBUJOHBQSPEVDU
quality  enhancement  with an environmental  
management  system  focus  on reduction  of 
emissions  of volatile  organic  compounds.  
This product  change  resulted  in:
tQFSDFOUSFEVDUJPOPG70$TFNJUUFE
per engine  
tQFSDFOUEFDSFBTFJOIB[BSEPVTXBTUF
per engine,  and
t&MJNJOBUFEUIFVTFPGUPMVFOFTPMWFOU
avoiding  42 tons  of volatile  emissions  
while  saving  the Company  more  than  
$300,000  in 2006.   
This is another  fine project  that underscores  
the concept  that the work  we do to 
decrease  our environmental  impact  is also 
good  for the bottom  line.
Another  Chairman’s  Awards  winner  
for environment  is the Columbus  Engine  
Plant.   The plant  is currently  undergoing  
substantial  renovations  to prepare  for 
the installation  of the Light-Duty  Diesel  
Engine  assembly  operations.   The CEP  
environmental  management  team  took  
recycling  to another  level  by diverting  
demolition  wastes  from  the landfill.   
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[Lifesaving  Cardiac  Care  
Equipment  On Site
On January  16, 2007,  Sy Rooney,  a 39-year  employee  working  at Cummins’  
Fridley,  Minnesota  facility,  was assembling  switchgear  in the Systems  Department.  
i5IFMBTUUIJOH*SFNFNCFSwIFTBJEiXBTGFFMJOHWFSZXFBLBOETIPSUPGCSFBUI
TP*TBUEPXOw4ZTVEEFOMZDPMMBQTFEBWJDUJNPGDBSEJBDBSSFTU.PSFUIBO
300,000  persons  die each  year  from  sudden  cardiac  arrest  in the U.S.  alone.  
Restoring  circulation  as fast as possible  improves  one’s  chances  of survival.  
Sy’s co-workers  immediately  began  cardiopulmonary  resuscitation  and called  for 
the plant’s  emergency  response  team.  First  responders  quickly  arrived,  followed  
by the plant’s  emergency  medical  technician,  equipped  with an automated  
FYUFSOBMEFGJCSJMMBUPS	"&%

Cummins  had partnered  with Cardiac  Science  to install  AEDs  and train  
responders  at all global  manufacturing  plants,  research  facilities,  and any other  sites  
XJUIFNQMPZFFTPSNPSF	#ZUIFFOEPGBMMGBDJMJUJFTXJUIFNQMPZFFT
or more  will be so equipped.)  
Sy’s condition  by now  was critical—unconscious,  no breathing  and no pulse;  
his face  blue  in color.  So the EMT  immediately  applied  the AED  electrodes;  the 
instrument  automatically  analyzed  Sy’s  condition  and delivered  a life-saving  shock.  
'JWFXFFLTBGUFSUIFJODJEFOU4ZXBTCBDLBUIJTOPSNBMKPCi/PX*UBLFUIF
XPSMEEBZCZEBZ*EJEOUFWFOLOPXXFIBE"&%TCVUUIFZTBWFENZMJGFw
IFTBJEi)PXDBOZPVQVUBQSJDFPOUIBU wCummins  has 
partnered  
with Cardiac  
Science  
to install  
automated  
external  
defibrillators  
and train  
responders  
at plants  and 
other  facilities.
 :HML[`Director’s  Award:  To be eligible  for this 
award,  a site must  achieve  the corporate  
health  and safety  targets:  IR less than  2.0 
and a minimum  CSS  Formal  or Verification  
Audit  level  3, with 70 points.  The site may  
not win this award  in successive  years.  
The Health  and Safety  Performance  Award  
winners  for 2007  are:
No sites  qualified  for Chairman’s  Award  or 
HSE Council’s  Award  for safety  in 2007.   
Director
•	Columbus 	MidRange 	Engine	Plant
•	Cummins 	Filtration,	Neillsville
•	Consolidated 	Diesel	Co.	
•	Cummins 	Generator 	 
Technologies, 	Brazil
•	Cummins 	Turbo	Technologies, 	Brazil
•	Cummins 	Turbo	Technologies
 
•	Jamestown 	Engine	Plant
•	Parts	and	Service	Memphis	Plant
•	Cummins 	Power	Generation, 	Fridley
•	Tata	Cummins 	Limited
Best Practice
•	Cummins 	Filtration	South	Africa
•	Cummins 	South	Pacific
•	Fuel	Systems	Plant	Juarez
•	Cummins 	Power	Generation, 	Brazil
•	Parts	and	Service	San	Luis	PotosiBest Practice
•	Columbus 	MidRange 	Engine	Plant
Design  For Environment
•	Filtration	Business	Design	Team:		“User	
Friendly  Filter  Project”
Chairman’s  Award  for Green  Building
•	Cummins 	Generator 	Technologies, 	India
Chairman’s  Award   
for Energy  Efficiency
•	Cummins 	Mexico	Components 	Plant
Cummins  Health  and 
Safety  Recognition  Program  
Sites  are eligible  for Health  and Safety  
recognition  at three  performance  levels;  
Chairman’s 	Award,	Business	Unit	(BU)	
Award  and Director’s  Award.  In addition,  
awards  are given  by the business  units   
in recognition  of best  practices  the sites  
have implemented.  
The Corporate  Health  and Safety  
2007  Recognition  is based  upon  the 
following  performance  criteria:  
Chairman’s  Award:  To be eligible  for 
this award,  a site must  achieve  an IR of 
0.0 to 0.5 and a minimum  CSS  Formal  or 
Verification  Audit  level  3, with 95 points.  
Business  Unit Award:  To be eligible   
for this award,  a site must  achieve  an 
IR of 0.6 to 1.0 and a minimum  CSS   
Formal  or Verification  Audit  level  3, with  
85 points.  The site may  not win this  
award  in successive  years,  as we strive   
for improvements.  “Creating  a great  
 place  to work  
 is not only  one 
 of Cummins’   
strategic  business   
principles,  it’s  
at the core  of  
the Company’s   
future  business   
success.”  
Andrea  Litz
80                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportCummins  Pilots  
Ray Rising  (left) 
and Chris  Raskob  
review  a preflight  
safety  checklist.
Aviation  Safety
Cummins  Corporate  Aviation  Department  has achieved  the 
*OUFSOBUJPOBM4UBOEBSE#VTJOFTT"WJBUJPO0QFSBUJPOT	*4#"0

registration,  an accomplishment  that means  the Company  met 
the rigorous  safety  standards  of the global  organization.  
5IF*4#"0SFHJTUSBUJPOXBTJOUSPEVDFECZUIF*OUFSOBUJPOBM
#VTJOFTT"WJBUJPO$PVODJMBOBTTPDJBUJPOPGDPSQPSBUFBWJBUJPO
departments,  to promote  the highest  safety  standards  in the 
industry.  Dozens  of corporations,  from  Coca-Cola  to Cardinal  
Health,  have  met the standards.
Achieving  the registration  required  Cummins  to revise  the flight  
operations  manual,  document  procedures  and incidents,  and make  
TPNFPUIFSDIBOHFTUPQSPNPUFTBGFUZ'PSFYBNQMFUIFEPPSGSPN
the hangar  to the lobby  is now  locked,  preventing  late passengers  
from running  onto  the runway  to catch  a flight,  and passengers  are 
asked  to show  their  IDs before  boarding.  
4BGFUZIBTBMXBZTCFFOBQSJPSJUZGPS$PSQPSBUF"WJBUJPO#VUUP
NFFUUIF*4#"0TUBOEBSETUIFEFQBSUNFOUVOEFSXFOUBOBVEJUUIBU
revealed  areas  for improvement.  
$PSQPSBUF"WJBUJPOIBTQJMPUTGMJFTGPVSBJSDSBGUoJODMVEJOHUISFF
FJHIUQBTTFOHFSQMBOFTBOEPOFQBTTFOHFSTIVUUMFoGMJFT
flights  per week  and ferries  130-140  passengers  each  week.  
 :HML[`Treating  Others  with  Dignity  and Respect
“Every  person  
must  be 
treated  with  
dignity  and 
respect,  and 
be provided  
fair pay and 
benefits  for the 
work  they  do…”
Diversity
“ We have  a far better  chance  of attracting  and retaining  the best  talent  
available  if we create  a work  environment  that encourages  talented  
people  to join us and,  once  here,  to contribute  to their  full potential.  
To do so means  that every  person  must  be treated  with  dignity  and 
respect,  and be provided  fair pay and benefits  for the work  they  do…”  
Tim Solso
Cummins  Chairman  and CEO  
“ In the search  for character  and commitment,  we must  rid ourselves  
of our inherited,  even  cherished,  biases  and prejudices  … When  we 
indulge  ourselves  in such  irrational  prejudices,  we damage  ourselves  
most  of all and ultimately  assure  ourselves  of failure  in competition  
with those  more  open  and less biased.”  
J. Irwin  Miller  
Former  Cummins  Chairman  and CEO  
82                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportThe	words	of	two	Cummins 	chairmen	–	spoken	
years	apart	–	demonstrate 	that	Cummins’ 	
commitment  to diversity  has not wavered  with  
the passage  of time  or a change  in leadership.   
At Cummins  — which  does  business  around  the 
world  — the message  is powerful:  
From  a business  perspective,  the Company  believes  
that successfully  managing  diversity  strengthens  
relationships  with an increasingly  diverse  customer  
base.	Beyond	that,	a	diverse	work	force	–	in	terms	
of	race,	ethnicity,	age,	gender,	sexual	orientation 	
and	educational 	background 	–	ensures	a	variety	
of perspectives  to best  address  the Company’s  
business  needs.  Cummins’  diversity  initiatives   
include  the following:
 
•	All	employees 	complete	a	comprehensive 	
diversity	training	program	designed	exclusively 	for	
Cummins.  Second  generation  (advanced  diversity  
management  topics)  training  is a mandatory  part 
of career  development  for leaders.  •	In	all,	48	Local	Diversity	Councils	(LDCs)	have	
been  created  to address  diversity  issues  in  
the communities  in which  Cummins  does  
business.  In addition,  the LDCs  focus  on 
recruiting,  retention  and cultural  differences  in  
the workplace.  Affinity  groups,  or employee  
resource  groups,  have  been  instrumental  in 
Cummins’  diversity  journey.  Currently,  we have  
affinity  groups  for African  and African-  Americans,  
Asians,  Chinese,  Latino,  new  hires  and lesbian,  
gay,	bisexual	and	transgender 	employees.
•	Cummins’ 	long-standing 	commitment 	to	use	
qualified  minority-owned  suppliers  has yielded  
good  results  in recent  years.  In 2006,  Cummins  
spent  $298.8  million  with small  business  and 
minority-owned  suppliers.  In 2007,  Cummins  
spent  $453.8  million  with small  business  and 
minority-owned  suppliers.
83 Diversitycreating  a diverse  workplace  in terms  of  
the representation  of people  from  many  
different  backgrounds.  The second  is 
creating  an environment  that manages  
people’s  differences  effectively  and,  in  
doing  so, inspires  innovative  ideas  and 
solutions.  Making  sure  that everyone  has 
a voice  can lead  to creative  solutions  that 
address  real-time  problems.  
The Company  relies  on the insight   
that comes  from  a diverse  workforce   
to enter  new  markets  and geographies.   
The Company  depends  on the varied   
talents  of its people,  systems  and 
organizational  knowledge  to solve   
complex  problems,  reduce  costs,  
and create  differentiated  products   
and services  that delight  customers.  
Diversity  provides  Cummins  with a 
competitive  advantage  in the following  areas:  
New markets  and new  businesses:  
Sales  in markets  outside  of the United  States  
currently  are growing  faster  than  in the U.S.  
Nearly  all world  growth  to 2050  is projected  
to occur  in Africa,  Asia  and Latin  America.  
The best  way to grow  into new  businesses  
and more  geographic  regions  is to have  
employees  who  understand  the culture  or 
are part of it. 
Customer  requirements:  Purchasing  
materials  and services  from  a diverse  supply  
base  puts  Cummins  in a position  to take  
advantage  of all opportunities  to be the 
low-cost  producer.  Cummins’  customers  
demand  we create  economic  opportunity  for 
all parts  of society,  especially  those  under-
represented  in today’s  economy.  
Changing  demographics:  Successful  
companies  understand  how  the world’s  
population  is being  transformed  by 
immigration  and changing  birthrates.  The 
population  of Latinos,  people  of African  •	Cummins 	offers	health	care	and	other	
benefits  to non-spousal  domestic  
partners.  In making  these  benefits  
available  to employee  life partners,  
Cummins  recognizes  that it must   
provide  attractive  and flexible  programs   
to all employees.
•	Cummins 	has	received	a	perfect	score	on	
the Human  Rights  Campaign’s  Corporate  
Equality  Index  every  year  since  2005.
•	Cummins 	has	won	the	prestigious 	
Australian 	Government 	Business	
Achievement  Award  for the advancement  
of women  in the workplace.  Cummins  was 
also a finalist  for the Outstanding  Initiative/
Result  for the Advancement  of Women,  
presented  by Australian  government’s  
Equal  Opportunity  for Women  in the 
Workplace  Agency.  
•	Cummins 	Parts	and	Service	is	
participating  in a university  program  in 
which  students  intern  locally  and at our 
international  remanufacturing  locations.  
This program  helps  increase  cultural  
awareness  and diversity  appreciation,  and 
enables  the next  generation  workforce  
to function  effectively  in our increasingly  
global  enterprise.
•	Cummins 	India	Foundation 	(CIF)	and	
Cummins  College  of Engineering  for 
Women  (CCEW)  recently  launched  
a four-year  Mechanical  Engineering  
Division,  which  opened  in August  2007  
with 60 students  in Pune,  India.  CCEW  
was established  in 1991  as the result  
of a significant  contribution  from  CIF. It 
was the first college  of engineering  for 
women  in India  and is the first to offer  a 
mechanical  engineering  major  to aspiring  
women  engineers.  
Cummins’  concept  of diversity  in the 
workplace  has two parts.  The first is  “Being  a 
successful  
company  means  
that we have  
to embrace  
diverse  cultures,  
and attract  the 
most  talented  
employees  
regardless  of 
where  they  live.”  
Deborah  Jones
84                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportCummins  
employees  serve  
as volunteers  
as the annual  
Indiana  Black  
Expo,  which  
attracts  more  
than 350,000  
people  and 
celebrates  
African-American  
heritage  and 
culture.
Cummins  Participation  Grows  
at Indiana  Black  Expo
#MBDL&YQPCFHBOJOJO*OEJBOBQPMJTBOEIBTHSPXOUPCFDPNF
the largest  African-American  event  in the United  States.  Today,  more  
UIBOQFPQMFBUUFOEUIFEBZ#MBDL&YQP4VNNFS'FTUJWBM
which  includes  business  workshops,  a focus  on health  and wellness,  
FNQMPZNFOUPQQPSUVOJUJFTFYIJCJUTZPVUIBDUJWJUJFTBOEFOUFSUBJONFOU
Local  and national  celebrities,  along  with individuals,  families  and 
members  of the corporate  community,  join in celebration  of the 
African-American  heritage  and culture.
$VNNJOTJOWPMWFNFOUJOUIF#MBDL&YQP4VNNFS'FTUJWBMIBTHSPXO
significantly  over  the last three  years.  Volunteers  for the Cummins  
CPPUIIBWFJODSFBTFEGSPNUP*OB4JY4JHNBXPSLTIPQ
was added  to the program.  In addition,  eight  more  groups  from  
WBSJPVT$PNQBOZPSHBOJ[BUJPOTQBSUJDJQBUFEJO&YQPSFMBUFEBDUJWJUJFT
bringing  the total  to 17, including  employees  from  the Company’s  
Tennessee  and Minnesota  operations.  As a result  of our involvement  
JOUIF#MBDL&YQPFNQMPZNFOUGBJSBUPUBMPGOJOFOFXIJSFTIBWF
joined  Cummins.
$VNNJOTBMTPTQPOTPSFETFWFSBM*#&FWFOUTJODMVEJOHUIF
Employment  Opportunity  Fair,  where  a record  52 percent  of resumes  
routed  to hiring  managers  were  requested  for interviews.
 +P]LYZP[`Cummins  Named  Among   
Top 50 Companies  for Diversity
In 2007,  Cummins  was named  to the list of the Top 50 companies  for diversity   
by DiversityInc  magazine,  a publication  that educates  businesses  about  the  
benefits  of promoting  diversity  in the work  place.  
This marks  the first time  that Cummins  has been  named  to DiversityInc’s  Top 
50 list, now  in its seventh  year.  Cummins  also earned  the No. 1 spot  on the 
magazine’s  top work  places  for Asian-Americans,  the same  position  it held  in 2005.
“It	is	an	honor	to	be	named	to	the	Top	50	Companies 	for	Diversity	and	be	
recognized 	for	our	efforts	to	make	Cummins 	an	inclusive	work	place,”	said	Jill	
Cook,	Vice	President, 	Human	Resources. 	“At	Cummins, 	we	believe	that	our	
workforce  should  reflect  the communities  where  our employees  live. We want  a 
work  environment  where  people  can be creative  and innovative  because  that is 
what	makes	us	a	stronger,	more	successful 	Company.”
Cummins  was ranked  No. 38 by DiversityInc  after  responding  to a detailed  survey  
answering 	questions 	that	included	the	commitment 	of	the	chief	executive 	officer	
to diversity,  human  capital,  corporate  communications  and supplier  diversity.  Any 
company	that	does	not	offer	domestic	partner	benefits	is	automatically 	excluded	
from the list.
86                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportCreating  a great  
place  to work  
means  having  
a diverse  group  
of employees  
whose  varied  
experiences,  
background  
and ethnicity  
can stimulate  
new ideas  and 
innovation  and 
bring  different  
perspectives  to 
the workplace.
i$VNNJOTJTNVDIEJGGFSFOUGSPNUIFBWFSBHFDPSQPSBUJPOJUJTBUSVF
DIBNQJPOPGEJWFSTJUZwTBJE-VLF7JTDPOUJQBSUOFSBOEDPGPVOEFSPG
DiversityInc BNPOUIMZCVTJOFTTNBHB[JOFBOEEBJMZ8FCTJUFi"UPUBMPG
317 companies  competed  for a spot,  a 100 percent  increase  in corporate  
QBSUJDJQBUJPOJOUIF5PQDPNQFUJUJPOPWFSUIFMBTUUISFFZFBSTw
Cummins  has a history  of commitment  to diversity.  The Company  was 
named  to Fortune  magazine’s  list of 50 best  places  for minorities  in 2000  
and has been  listed  on CRONBHB[JOFTi#FTU$PSQPSBUF$JUJ[FOwMJTUOJOF
years  in a row.
 +P]LYZP[`•	A	positive	work	environment 	where	all	
people  can perform  at the highest  levels
•	Increased 	employee 	engagement 	 
and creativity
•	Attraction 	and	retention	of	the	best	talent
•	A	positive	reputation 	in	the	community
•	Improved 	decision-making 	 
capabilities  provided  by more   
viewpoints  and choices
•	Improved 	problem	resolution
•	Doing	the	right	thing	–	A	company	 
is only as healthy  as the environment  
and communities  in which  its employees  
work  and live. It is in Cummins’   
self-interest,  not selfish  interest,  to  
create  an environment  in which  people  
treat others  as they  want  to be treated.  
This is consistent  with the Company’s  
core values.  descent  and Asians  is growing  and more  
women  occupy  positions  of authority  in 
business  and government.  Companies  
that understand  and adapt  to these  
demographic  changes  will thrive  in the 
economy  of the future.  
Competitive  performance:  Having  
a diverse  workforce  enables  a company  
to solve  complex  problems,  innovate  
and otherwise  adapt  more  quickly  in a 
competitive  environment.  
Attracting  and retaining   
the best  people:  Employees  who  feel 
welcome  and valued  in the workplace  will 
be more  innovative,  act as owners  and 
engage  customers  to provide  superior  
products  and service.  
A company  that promotes  diversity  in 
hiring  and increases  an understanding  and 
appreciation  of differences  will reap  the 
following  benefits:   Having  a diverse  workforce  enables  a company  to solve  
complex  problems,  innovate  and otherwise  adapt  more  quickly  
in a competitive  environment.
“At Cummins,  
we strive  
to foster  an 
environment  
where  
employees  are 
encouraged  
to challenge  
traditional  
thinking  and 
ways  of doing  
business  in 
the search  for 
better  answers.”
Aisha  Goens
88                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportThe MLK  Memorial  
Ground  breaking  
Ceremonies  
occurred  on 
Nov. 13, 2006.  
Among  those  in 
attendance  were  
Presidents  Bush  
and Clinton  and 
Dr. King’s  children  
Yolanda,  Martin  III 
and Bernice.
Cummins  Contributes  
to King  Memorial
Cummins  has pledged  $1 million  to help create  the Martin  Luther  King  Jr. 
Memorial  in Washington  D.C.  as a way to honor  both  Dr. King  and the legacy  
of former  Cummins  Chairman  J. Irwin  Miller.
The monument,  on the National  Mall,  is being  created  by the National  
Memorial  Project  Foundation  to commemorate  the life and work  of Dr. King,  
and to honor  his contributions  to world  peace  through  nonviolent  social  change.
Cummins’  contribution  to the project  will be in the name  of J. Irwin  Miller,  
who worked  closely  with Dr. King  during  the height  of the U.S.  civil rights  
movement  and who  was tireless  in his support  for equality.
i%S,JOHBOE.S.JMMFSTIBSFENBOZPGUIFTBNFWBMVFTFRVBMJUZGBJSOFTT
racial  harmony  and compassion  among  them  — and this monument  provides  
Cummins  the opportunity  to honor  the memories  and legacies  of two great  
NFOwTBJE5SBDZ4PV[B&YFDVUJWF%JSFDUPS$PSQPSBUF4PDJBM3FTQPOTJCJMJUZ
5IFGPVSBDSFTJUFPGUIF.FNPSJBMJTPOUIFOPSUIFBTUDPSOFSPGUIF5JEBM#BTJO
in Washington  D.C.,  north  of the Franklin  D. Roosevelt  Memorial  and on a direct  
line between  the Lincoln  and Jefferson  memorials.  The location  was chosen  to 
DSFBUFBDSFBUFBWJTVBMAMJOFPGMFBEFSTIJQGSPNUIF-JODPMO.FNPSJBMXIFSF
%S,JOHHBWFIJTGBNPVTi*)BWFB%SFBNwTQFFDIUPUIF+FGGFSTPO.FNPSJBM
 +P]LYZP[`Cummins’
focus  on 
corporate
responsibility
supports  our 
business  and 
philosophical
commitment
to serving  and 
improving  the 
communities  in 
which  we live 
and work.Making  a Difference
/PXNPSFUIBOFWFSDPSQPSBUJPOToXJUI
UIFJSTJHOJGJDBOUSFTPVSDFTBOEFYQFSUJTFo
have the ability  to create  social  impact  on a 
substantial  scale.  
5IJTPQQPSUVOJUZUPiEPUIFSJHIUUIJOHwJT
NPSFUIBOBOFYFSDJTFJOQIJMBOUISPQZ5IF
positive  change  that results  from  a well-
defined  and strategic  approach  to corporate  
responsibility  makes  good  business  sense.  
5IFBDUJPOTBDPNQBOZUBLFTUPiNBLF
BEJGGFSFODFwDBOCFOFGJUTIBSFIPMEFST
communities,  customers,  employees,  
business  partners  and other  company  
stakeholders,  as well.
Nearly  40 years  ago,  J. Irwin  Miller,  former  
Chairman  and CEO  of Cummins,  captured  
the value  of a thoughtful  approach  to 
corporate  responsibility  in remarks  delivered  UPUIF/BUJPOBM*OEVTUSJBM$POGFSFODF#PBSE
Public  Affairs  Conference  in New  York  City.
i#VTJOFTTIBTBWFSZMBSHFTUBLFJOUIF
quality  of the society  within  which  it 
PQFSBUFTwIFTBJEi8FGMPVSJTIPOMZ
as we are rooted  in a society  which  is 
healthy,  orderly,  just, and which  grants  
freedom  and scope  to individuals  and 
UIFJSMBXGVMFOUFSQSJTFTw
Mr. Miller’s  words  ring true today.  
Cummins’  focus  on corporate  responsibility  
also supports  our business  and 
philosophical  commitment  to integrity,  
diversity,  global  involvement  and serving  
and improving  the communities  in which  we 
live and work.  These  values  are especially  
critical  at this time  in the Company’s  history  
when  we are looking  at significant  growth  
both globally  and in the U.S.
Corporate  Responsibility  
 *\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[#FDBVTF$VNNJOTCFMJFWFTJUJTPOMZBTIFBMUIZBT
the communities  in which  it operates,  the Company  
and its employees  are actively  engaged  in improving  
people’s  lives  in the areas  where  they  live and work.  
"HPPEFYBNQMFPGUIJTQIJMPTPQIZJOBDUJPOXBT
the decision  to use the Columbus  (Indiana)  Engine  
Plant  (CEP)  as the production  facility  for its new  family  
of light-duty,  clean-diesel  engines.  In deciding  to 
refurbish  this under-used  facility,  Cummins  did more  
than just select  a manufacturing  location.  Cummins  
chose  Columbus  in large  part because  of a strong  
package  of educational  programs  offered  by the 
state  to ensure  a robust  and skilled  workforce  in 
southeastern  and central  Indiana.  
'PSFYBNQMFUIF*OEJBOB%FQBSUNFOUPG
8PSLGPSDF%FWFMPQNFOUoJOBMJHONFOUXJUI*WZ
5FDI$PNNVOJUZ$PMMFHFoPGGFSFEVQUPNJMMJPO
to support  advanced  manufacturing  training.  The Department  of Workforce  Development  committed  
$2 million  to grow  awareness  and interest  in 
advanced  manufacturing  careers.  That  total  
included  funds  to cover  the start-up  costs  for the 
i%SFBN*U%P*UwDBSFFSTDBNQBJHODSFBUFECZUIF
Manufacturing  Institute  of the National  Association  
of Manufacturers.  The goal  of this program  is to 
educate  young  adults  and their  parents  on the career  
opportunities  available  in advanced  manufacturing.  
The Company  also encourages  employees  to get 
heavily  involved  in the communities  where  they  live 
and work.  Volunteer  efforts  among  its employees  
are a supplement  to Cummins’  corporate  giving  
program,  which  makes  funds  available  to worthwhile  
DPNNVOJUZDBVTFToXJUIBOFNQIBTJTPOFEVDBUJPO
employment,  health  issues  and the environment.  
As a result  of the Company’s  commitment  to living  
its vision  and mission,  Cummins  has been  named  
  *VYWVYH[L9LZWVUZPIPSP[`From  raking  
leaves  to reading  
to children,  
from  painting  
to stocking  
food  pantries,  
Cummins  
employees  have  
participated  in 
a wide  range  of 
projects  through  
the annual  EEEC  
program.ways  of promoting  this essential   
value  in our global  communities.  A 
Corporate  Responsibility  Department  
oversees  strategies  and programs  to 
encourage  community  involvement   
and responsible  citizenship.  
The Cummins  Foundation  plays  a role  
in promoting  and developing  programs   
or processes  that enable  the Company   
to perform  well.  However,  the most  
important  work  is done  by Cummins  
employees  through  its Community  
Involvement  Teams  and record-breaking  
United  Way  participation.  
One of our newer  initiatives,  Every  
Employee,  Every  Community  (EEEC),  
allows  employees  to give back  to their  
communities  by volunteering  on Company  
time.  Each  Cummins  site around  the world  
has	the	flexibility	to	schedule	community 	
service  projects  according  to local  needs,  
their facility  and employee  work  schedules.   among  the top 100 corporate  citizens  by 
CRO  magazine,  formerly  known  as Business  
Ethics  magazine.  Cummins  is one of a few 
companies 	to	be	named	to	the	“top	100”	 
list every  year  for the last nine years.  The 
2008  rankings  are limited  to the Russell  
1000	–	companies 	that	represent 	the	largest	
impact  on business-to-business   
and consumer  markets.   
Companies  were  ranked  on eight  categories:  
climate  change,  employee  relations,  
environment,  financial,  governance,  human  
rights,  lobbying  and philanthropy.  CRO  
determined  the final ranking  as a weighted  
average  of these  eight  categories.
Every  Employee,  Every  Community  
Throughout  its 89-year  history,  Cummins   
has made  corporate  responsibility  a 
fundamental  part of who  we are and how   
we do business.  Cummins  has several   “ While  some  still argue  that business  has no social  responsibility,  
we believe  that our survival  in the very  long  run is as dependent  
upon  responsible  citizenship  in our communities  and in the 
society,  as it is on responsible  technological,  financial  and 
production  performance.”  
Cummins  1972  Annual  Report
92                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportEach  team  establishes  a work  plan,  a budget  and a 
focus  area  for community  service.  Every  two years,  
these  teams  are audited  against  a set of Functional  
Excellence 	criteria.	The	audit	process	ensures	that	
corporate  responsibility  remains  an important  business  
objective  across  all business  units,  provides  a 
measurement  and recognition  process  and identifies  
areas	for	development 	over	the	next	two-year	cycle.	
Community  Involvement  Teams  have  the responsibility  
of developing  an annual  plan,  organizing  volunteer  
activities,  responding  to community  requests  for 
donations  and developing  proposals  for the Cummins  
Foundation.  
Here	are	some	recent	examples 	of	CIT	involvement 	
around  the globe:  
•	Employees 	from	Cummins 	Business	Services	(CBS)	
Mexico	volunteered 	their	time	and	hands	to	paint	
and plumb  the Family  Development  Centre  located  
at the Colonia  Satellite,  a community  of San Luis 
Potosi,	Mexico.		The	Centre’s	mission	is	focused	
on productive  education  through  training  and From  raking  leaves  to reading  to children,  from  painting  
to stocking  food  pantries,  Cummins  employees  have  
participated  in a wide  range  of projects  through  the 
annual  EEEC  program.  
More  than  9,000  employees  contributed  more  than  
38,000  hours  of community  service  through  the EEEC  
program	in	2007	–	a	60	percent	increase	in	both	
participation  and hours  over  2006.
At Cummins,  corporate  responsibility  has three  major  
areas  of focus:  community  involvement,  corporate  
donations  and the Cummins  Foundation.  When  special  
needs  arise,  Cummins  has several  avenues  through  
which  to provide  assistance.  
Community  Involvement  Teams  
Community  Involvement  Teams  (CITs)  are employee-led  
committees  that represent  the diversity  of the workforce  
and all levels  of management.  They  are driven  by the 
philosophy  that a company  cannot  function  without  a 
healthy  community.  Each  year,  Cummins  Mechelen  (Belgium)  holds  a breakfast  in 
support  of a Rwandan  orphanage  to help  purchase  uniforms,  
pencils  and other  school  equipment  for the children,  ages   
6 to 14. Some  600 orphans  attend  the school,  and their  
education  costs  about  $30 Euros  (US $41)  per year  per student.
93 Corporate ResponsibilityIn response  to the needs,  the local  
Corporate  Social  Responsibility  (CSR)  
committee  worked  tirelessly  to provide  
short-term  housing,  food  and support.  
Additionally,  the national  CSR  team   
initiated  the “One  Family”  flood  relief  
fundraising  campaign  for reconstruction  
of local  employee  homes  and shared  
community  infrastructure.  
Corporate  Donations  
Donations  provide  a means  for Cummins  
to participate  in community  events  
that are more  appropriately  funded  by 
the Company  than  the Foundation.  
These  activities  include  memberships,  
sponsorships,  dinners  or other  events.  
Cummins  made  approximately  $2.9  
million  in corporate  donations  to charitable  
causes  in 2006  and $3.4  million  in 2007.  
The Cummins  Foundation  
The Cummins  Foundation  is one of the 
oldest  corporate  charitable  foundations  in 
the United  States.  The Foundation  serves  
to improve  the communities  in which  
Cummins  does  business  by providing  the 
tools and means  for people  living  on the 
edge  of society  to overcome  the barriers  
they face.  The Foundation’s  President  
serves  as Cummins’  Executive  Director  of 
Corporate  Social  Responsibility,  providing  
leadership  and coordination  to all the 
Company’s  social  work.  Cummins  also 
has formed  foundations  in Mexico  and 
India over  the last decade.  
The Foundation  focuses  on embracing  the 
diverse  perspectives  of all people,  seeking  
innovative  ways  to address  societal  
needs  by emphasizing  partnerships  and development  of skills  among  people   
who live in Colonia  Satellite  and 
surrounding  areas.
 More  than  190 students  are benefiting  
from elementary  and high  school  classes  
at this Centre.  English,  computing,  
cooking,  artistic  chocolates  and 
handcrafts  are just a few of the many  
courses  students  can take.
•	The	Mechelen 	(Belgium)	Community 	
Involvement  Team,  made  up of Parts  
and Service  and Filtration,  worked  with 
the	Belgian	organization 	Les	Enfants	du	
Père Martin  to collect  $2,500  in support  
of an orphanage  in Rwanda  where  
children  ages  6 to 14 attend  primary  
school  classes.  The support  goes  toward  
the purchase  of uniforms  that are made  
locally,  as well as school  books,  pencils  
and other  school  equipment.  Some  600 
orphans  attend  the school.
•	During	2006	and	2007,	the	Darlington 	
Engine  Plant  (DEP)  supported  Action  for 
Blind	People	(AFBP),	a	national	charity.	
Employees’  efforts  included  both  fund  
raising,  as well as direct  employee  
engagement.  DEP  volunteers  have  been  
instrumental 	in	helping	AFPB	develop	
an Actionaires  Club  that gives  visually  
impaired  children  – between  the ages  of 
4 and 16 – the opportunity  to participate  
in different  sports  and leisure  activities.
•	In	late	July	2007,	torrential	rains,	lightning	
strikes  and mudflows  battered  cities  in 
central  and southern  China,  resulting  
in the worst  flooding  in more  than  
100 years.  More  than  1 million  people  
were  left homeless.  The rains  left the 
Chongqing  Cummins  (CCEC)  plant  and 
the homes  of many  local  employees  
water-soaked  and covered  with mud.“Six Sigma  is an 
indispensable  
improvement  
methodology  
and toolset  at 
Cummins  that  
has permanently  
changed  the 
culture.”
Sameer  Samudra
94                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability Reportt$VNNJOTFNQMPZFFTJO.FMCPVSOF"VTUSBMJB
teamed  up with Concern  Australia  on the 
)BOE#SBLF5VSO1SPHSBNXIJDIQSPWJEFT
disadvantaged  15 to 19-year-olds  with 
educational  mentoring  and job training  
opportunities.  This program  is specifically  
designed  to provide  participants  with a certificate  
in engine  mechanics.
t$IBSMFTUPO4PVUI$BSPMJOBFNQMPZFFTJEFOUJGJFE
hunger  among  children  attending  schools  near  
our manufacturing  facilities  as a community  
concern.   They  teamed  up with the Low  Country  
'PPE#BOLBTBQBSUOFSBTXFMMBTUIF#BDL1BDL
#VEEZ1SPHSBNXIJDIDPOGJEFOUJBMMZQSPWJEFT
nutritious  snacks  for elementary  and middle  
school  children  to take  home  over  the weekend.  leveraging  people,  money,  products  and services  to 
make  a difference.  The Foundation  awarded  grants  
totaling  $5.4  million  in 2007.  
The Cummins  Foundation  sets aside  an innovation  
grant  fund  which  is available  to Cummins  Community  
Involvements  teams  that conduct  a community  
needs  assessment,  identify  a need  that is not being  
adequately  addressed  and propose  a creative  way 
to address  that need.   Teams  may  apply  for grants  
of up to $25,000.  In 2007,  10 communities  were  
awarded  community  innovation  grants.   A few 
FYBNQMFPGJOOPWBUJPOHSBOUTJODMVEF
t*O.JOOFBQPMJT.JOOFTPUB$VNNJOTUFBNFEVQ
with the Amherst  Wilder  Foundation  on an Elderly  
Falls Prevention  Project.   This study  identified  
leading  causes  for falls among  seniors  and 
developed  a tool kit to address  the most  serious  
issues.   This toolkit  can be shared  in all the 
Cummins  communities,  with the goal  of helping  
keep  seniors  leading  independent  lives  as long  
as possible.  Cummins  Business  Services  Mexico  helped  with  
painting  and plumbing  the Family  Development  
Centre  in San Luis  Potosi,  Mexico.  More  than  190 
students  benefit  from  classes  at the Centre.
  *VYWVYH[L9LZWVUZPIPSP[`The Cummins  Foundation  Report
Cummins  Foundation  Directors  and Committees
Foundation  Management
Directors  of the Foundation
Tim Solso,  Chairman   
Tracy  Souza,  President  
Jean	Blackwell, 	Secretary/Treasurer
Mark	Gerstle,	Board	Member
Tom	Linebarger, 	Board	Member
Joe	Loughrey, 	Board	Member
Will	Miller,	Board	Member	
Audit  Committee
Marsha  Hunt,  Committee  Chair
Luther  Peters  
James  Guilfoyle
Investment  Committee
Richard  Harris,  Committee  Chair
Nadeem  Ali
Marsha  HuntDomestic  Committees
Columbus,  IN Committee
Joe Loughrey,  Committee  Chair
Rich Freeland
Ignacio  Garcia
Mark  Gerstle
Jim Kelly
Will Miller
Tracy  Souza
Don Trapp
Tina Vujovich
John  Wall
Indianapolis,  IN Committee
Jean	Blackwell, 	Committee 	Chair
Susan  Hanafee
Marya  Rose
Tim Solso
Tracy  SouzaInternational  Committees
C3-Cummins  Community  
Connection  — Central  Area
Raymond  Eyres,  Committee  Chair
Cummins  Community   
Cares  — South  Pacific
Gino	Butera,	Committee 	Chair
Csilla  Csorba,  Manager
Cummins  India  Foundation
Anant  Talaulicar,   
Chairman  of Foundation  
Asociacion  Filantropica   
de Cummins  AC
Rafel  Dorador,   
Chairman  of Foundation
Edgar  Freeman  Rubio,  Director
96                                     Cummins Inc. 2007 Sustainability ReportThe Cummins  Foundation  Inc. 
Statements  of Financial  Position
 
Assets     December  31, 2007  December  31, 2006
Cash  and cash  equivalents     $4,580,212    $  2,708,329  
Contributions  Receivable      -   -  
Program-related  investments      12,167,632     10,990,444  
Other  assets      500   9,915  
     $16,748,344   $13,708,688  
 
Liabilities  and Net Assets    
Liabilities    
 Grants  payable      $5,113,215  $1,028,441  
  Total  Liabilities      5,113,215     1,028,441  
Unrestricted  net assets:   
Undesignated      5,059,737     2,433,104  
	Board-designated 	grant	fund	 		 	 	50,000		 192,643	
	Board-designated 	Columbus 	committee 	fund	 			 	 248,992		 		54,500	
	Board-designated 	architecture 	fund	 	 	 1,276,400 		 		5,000,000 	
	Board-designated 	reserve	fund	     5,000,000    5,000,000  
       11,635,129     12,680,247  
       16,748,344   13,708,688
97The Cummins  Foundation  – 2007  Grants
Grantee Community Purpose Amount
"#$o4UFXBSU4DIPPM $PMVNCVT*/ 4DIPMBSTIJQ4VQQPSU 
Adult  Day Care  Corporation Columbus,  IN General  Support  $2,000.00  
$PVSU"QQPJOUFE"EWPDBUFTGPS$IJMESFO $PMVNCVT*/ 1SPHSBN&YQBOTJPO4VQQPSU 
American  Indian  College  Fund Denver,  CO General  Support  $2,500.00  
American  Red Cross Clovis,  NM Tornado  Relief  Effort  $10,000.00  
American  Red Cross  International  Response  Fund Peru,  South  America Earthquake  Relief  $10,000.00  
American  Wind  Symphony  Orchestra Mars,  PA General  Support  $25,000.00  
Amherst  H. Wilder  Foundation Fridley,  MN Elderly  Falls  Prevention  $25,000.00  
Ashoka  Innovators  for the Public Arlington,  VA Youth  Ventures  $39,800.00  
"TPDJBDJPO'JMBOUSPQJDB$VNNJOT"$ 4BO-VJT1PUPTJ.FYJDP 5BCBTDP'MPPE3FMJFG 
ATLCF  Collections  Inc. Atlanta,GA MLK Papers  $250,000.00  
Autism  Speaks New York Kickoff  for a Cure  $25,000.00  
#BSUIPMPNFX"SFB-FHBM"JE*OD $PMVNCVT*/ (FOFSBM4VQQPSU 
#BSUIPMPNFX$POTPMJEBUFE4DIPPM'PVOEBUJPO $PMVNCVT*/ %JWFSTJUZ*OJUJBUJWFT 
#BSUIPMPNFX$POTPMJEBUFE4DIPPM'PVOEBUJPO $PMVNCVT*/ 5SBOTQPSUBUJPO4BGFUZ5SBJOJOH'BDJMJUZ 
#MPPNFS'JSF%FQBSUNFOU 4UPVHIUPO8* 'JSF4BGFUZ1SFWFOUJPO 
$"'"VTUSBMJB "VTUSBMJB )BOE#SBLF5VSO1SPHSBN 
CAF Australia Australia Shop  16 Project  $33,000.00  
Clovis-Carver  Public  Library Clovis,  NM Summer  Reading  Program  $1,000.00  
Clovis-Carver  Public  Library Clovis,  NM General  Support  $5,500.00  
CASA  of Chautauqua  County Jamestown,  NY General  Support  $8,000.00  
CASA/GAL  of Hancock  County Findlay,  OH Volunteer  Training  $2,500.00  
Cedar  Grove  Elementary  School Nashville,  TN Playground  Accessibility  $2,500.00  
Central  Indiana  Community  Foundation Indianapolis,  IN Cultural  Trail  $100,000.00  
$FOUSBM*OEJBOB$PSQPSBUF1BSUOFSTIJQ *OEJBOBQPMJT*/ $POFYVT*OEJBOB 
Charleston  Orphan  House,  Inc. Charleston,  SC Youth  Leadership  Program  $6,100.00  
$IJMESFOT.VTFVNPG*OEJBOBQPMJT *OEJBOBQPMJT*/ 1PXFSPG$IJMESFO.BLJOHB%JGGFSFODF&YIJCJU 
City of Columbus Columbus,  IN Urban  Design  Plan  $17,740.06  
City of Columbus Columbus,  IN Parking  Garage  Design  $500,186.17  
City of Stoughton Stoughton,  WI Youth  Programs  $2,500.00  
Columbus  Area  Arts Council Columbus,  IN UnCommon  Cause  Gala  $5,000.00  
Columbus  Area  Arts Council Columbus,  IN CNHS  Presentation  $500.00  
Columbus  Area  Arts Council Columbus,  IN Columbus  Indian  Film Lover’s  Association  $4,000.00  
Columbus  Area  Arts Council Columbus,  IN General  Support  $20,000.00  
Columbus  Area  Chamber  of Commerce  Foundation Columbus,  IN Connected  Community  Partnership  $10,000.00  
Columbus  Area  Chamber  of Commerce  Foundation Columbus,  IN Speaker  Fee  $2,000.00  
Columbus  Indiana  Architectural  Archives Columbus,  IN Symposium  $5,000.00  
Columbus  Indiana  Architectural  Archives Columbus,  IN Staff Support  $100,000.00  
Columbus  Symphony  Orchestra Columbus,  IN Family  Concert   $1,500.00  
Cummins  India  Foundation Pune,  India  Mechanical  Engineering  Program  $1,000,000.00
at Cummins  College  of Engineering  for Women   
Decatur  County  United  Fund,  Inc. Indiana General  Support  $6,938.00  
DePauw  University Greencastle,  IN Student  Honors  Ethics  Symposium  $50,000.00  
Duke  University Durham,  NC US-Southern  Africa  Center  for Leadership  $40,000.00
and Public  Values-Emerging  Leaders  Program
 *\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[Grantee Community Purpose Amount
Ecumenical  Assembly Columbus,  IN Emergency  Assistance  Fund  $20,000.00
PG#BSUIPMPNFX$PVOUZ$IVSDIFT
Edgecombe  County  Public  Schools Rocky  Mount,  NC Playground  Renovation  for Phililps  Middle  School  $25,000.00  
Fathers  and Families  Center Indianapolis,  IN General  Support  $5,000.00  
Findlay  Area  Chamber  of Commerce  Foundation Findlay,  OH Park Enhancement  $5,000.00  
Findlay  Hope  House  for the Homeless  Inc. Findlay,  OH Revolving  Loan  Fund  $25,000.00  
'PPE"MMFSHZ"OBQIZMBYJT/FUXPSL	'""/
 *OEJBOBQPMJT*/ (FOFSBM4VQQPSU 
'SBOLMJO#PZT(JSMT$MVC 'SBOLMJO*/ (FOFSBM4VQQPSU 
Franklin  College Franklin,  IN Cummins  Lectures  on Ethical  Leadership  $25,000.00  
(MFBOFST'PPE#BOL *OEJBOBQPMJT*/ (FOFSBM4VQQPSU 
The Greater  Indianapolis  Progress  Committee Indianapolis,  IN Mindtrust  $150,000.00  
Greater  Twin  Cities  United  Way Fridley,  MN General  Support  $164,918.00  
Hartley  House Clovis,  NM Refurbish  Safe  House  $25,000.00  
)FSJUBHF'VOEPG#BSUIPMPNFX$PVOUZ $PMVNCVT*/ &04.BJOUFOBODF'VOE 
Heritage  of Hope,  Inc. Hope,  IN General  Support  $10,000.00  
Hospice  of South  Central  Indiana,  Inc. Columbus,  IN Facility  Improvement  $41,507.50  
Human  Services,  Inc. Columbus,  IN Horizon  House  Homeless  Shelter  $5,000.00  
Indiana  Achievement  Awards Indianapolis,  IN Program  Sponsor  $1,000.00  
Indiana  Commission Indianapolis,  IN National  Conference   $1,000.00
POUIF4PDJBM4UBUVTPG#MBDL.BMFT
Indiana  Grantmakers  Alliance Indianapolis,  IN Fall Conference   $3,000.00  
Indianapolis  Opera Indianapolis,  IN Education  Sponsorship  $10,000.00  
Indianapolis  Symphony  Orchestra Indianapolis,  IN Support  for Educational  Programs  $3,000.00  
Jackson  County  United  Fund Indiana General  Support  $46,737.00  
Jefferson  County  United  Way Indiana General  Support  $2,848.00  
+FOOJOHT$PVOUZ4FOJPS3FTPVSDF$FOUFS *OEJBOB 'PPE#BOL 
Jennings  County  United  Way Indiana General  Support  $16,794.00  
Kids Voice  of Indiana Indianapolis,  IN Parent  Child  Visitation  Program  $5,000.00  
Kuaba  Humanitarian  Foundation Indianapolis,  IN Shipment  of Donations  to Zimbabwe  $10,000.00  
Lake Mills  Ambulance  Service Lake Mills,  IA AED Support  $5,000.00  
Lake Mills  Community  School Lake Mills,  IA Literacy  $25,000.00  
-BLFTJEF#BQUJTU$IVSDI 3PDLZ.PVOU/$ .FBMTPO8IFFMT 
Legal  Momentum Columbus,  IN General  Support  $1,500.00  
LeMoyne-Owen  College Memphis,  TN General  Support  $200,000.00  
LeMoyne-Owen  College Memphis,  TN Teen  Mothers  Program  $5,150.00  
Community  Development  Corporation
LeMoyne-Owen  College Memphis,  TN General  Support  $5,000.00  
Community  Development  Corporation
-PXDPVOUSZ'PPE#BOL $IBSMFTUPO4$ #BDL1BDL#VEEZ1SPHSBN 
McFarland  School  District Stoughton,  WI Project  Lead  the Way  Program  $5,000.00  
Metro  United  Way  of Clark  County Indiana General  Support  $1,657.00  
Metro  United  Way  of Floyd  County Indiana General  Support  $288.00  
5IF.JOOFBQPMJT'PVOEBUJPO 'SJEMFZ./ *8#SJEHF$PMMBQTF 
Minnesota  Indian  Women’s  Resource  Center Fridley,  MN Native  American  Parenting  Traditions  Revisited  Program  $104,855.00  
The Oasis  - Children’s  Advocate  Center Clovis,  NM General  Support  $3,500.00  
  Grantee Community Purpose Amount
Parental  Stress  Center Stoughton,  WI General  Support  $25,000.00  
Rocky  Mount  Area  United  Way Rocky  Mount,  NC General  Support  $154,915.00  
Rocky  Mount  Children’s  Museum Rocky  Mount,  NC Planetarium  $100,000.00  
School  on Wheels  Corp. Indianapolis,  IN Parents  as Partners  Program  $25,000.00  
Senior  Services  of Northern  Kentucky Covington,  KY General  Support  $25,000.00  
Shelby  County  United  Fund,  Inc. Indiana General  Support  $3,396.00  
St. Vincent  Jennings  Hospital  Foundation North  Vernon,  IN Golf Tournament  $10,000.00  
Stoughton  Area  Resource  Team Stoughton,  WI General  Support  $2,500.00  
Su Casa  Columbus  Inc. Columbus,  IN Spanish  Newspaper  $1,800.00  
Su Casa  Columbus  Inc. Columbus,  IN General  Support  $5,000.00  
Tarboro  Community  Outreach  Inc. Rocky  Mount,  NC Homeless  Shelter  $5,000.00  
Trident  United  Way Charleston,  SC General  Support  $57,073.00  
United  Communities  Ministries Rocky  Mount,  NC Homeless  Shelter  $5,000.00  
United  Fund  of Dearborn  County Indiana General  Support  $72.00  
United  Negro  College  Fund Indianapolis,  IN Annual  Campaign  $25,000.00  
6OJUFE8BZPG#BSUIPMPNFX$PVOUZ $PMVNCVT*/ (FOFSBM4VQQPSU 
6OJUFE8BZPG#BSUIPMPNFX$PVOUZ $PMVNCVT*/ :PVUI'FTU 
6OJUFE8BZPG#BSUIPMPNFX$PVOUZ $PMVNCVT*/ $BQBDJUZ#VJMEJOH1SPKFDU 
6OJUFE8BZPG#BSUIPMPNFX$PVOUZ $PMVNCVT*/ $IJMEIPPE$POOFDUJPOT 
6OJUFE8BZPG#MPPNJOHUPO.POSPF$PVOUZ*OD *OEJBOB (FOFSBM4VQQPSU 
United  Way  of Central  Indiana Indianapolis,  IN General  Support  $53,261.00  
United  Way  of Dane  County,  Inc. Stoughton,  WI General  Support  $38,501.00  
6OJUFE8BZPG&BTUFSO/FX.FYJDP*OD $MPWJT/. (FOFSBM4VQQPSU 
United  Way  of El Paso  County El Paso,  TX General  Support  $2,536.00  
United  Way  of Fayette  County Indiana General  Support  $48.00  
United  Way  of Greater  Cincinnati  Northern  Kentucky Florence,  KY General  Support  $10,432.00  
United  Way  of Hancock  County Findlay,  OH General  Support  $8,987.00  
United  Way  of Johnson  County Indiana General  Support  $55,550.00  
United  Way  of Metropolitan  Nashville Nashville,  TN General  Support  $75,716.00  
United  Way  of North  Central  Iowa Lake Mills,  IA General  Support  $23,241.00  
United  Way  of Putnam  County Cookeville,  TN General  Support  $23,506.00  
United  Way  of Scott  County Indiana General  Support  $2,834.00  
United  Way  of South  Central  Indiana Indiana General  Support  $576.00  
United  Way  of Southern  Chautauqua  County Jamestown,  NY General  Support  $111,982.00  
United  Way  of the Central  Savannah  River  Area,  Inc. Waynesboro,  GA General  Support  $16,040.00  
United  Way  of the Mid-South Memphis,  TN General  Support  $33,375.00  
Vance  Avenue  Youth  Development  Center Memphis,  TN General  Support  $5,000.00  
8FTU0IJP'PPE#BOL 'JOEMBZ0) (FOFSBM4VQQPSU 
8':*5FMF1MFY *OEJBOBQPMJT*/ $PNNVOJUJFT#VJMEJOH$PNNVOJUZ4FSJFT 
Women  On Maintaining  Education  & Nutrition Nashville,  TN HIV/AIDS  Awareness  $2,500.00  
8PSME7JTJPO64" 4JDIVBO1SPWJODF$IJOB $POTUSVDUJPOPG#FJNJBP1SJNBSZ4DIPPM 
Y-Med,  Inc. Columbus,  IN Consultant  $35,000.00  
Youth  for Christ  USA Lake Mills,  IA After School  Program  $5,000.00  
:PVUI-FBEFSTIJQ#BSUIPMPNFX$PVOUZ $PMVNCVT*/ 4UVEFOU-FBEFSTIJQ4FNJOBS 
YWCA Jamestown,  NY General  Support  $2,000.00  
Total  Grants  $5,378,274.73
*\TTPUZ0UJ:\Z[HPUHIPSP[`9LWVY[Production Notes 
Designed by: Cummins Corporate Communications 
Written by: Cummins Corporate Communications 
Printing by: The Merrick Printing Company  
Printing Responsibly 
Printed on ChorusArt paper manufactured  
with virgin pulp from FSC certified sources  
and a minimum of 25% post-consumer waste.  
Elemental Chlorine Free and Acid Free processes 
were used to manufacture the paper.Cummins  Inc. 2007  Sustainability  ReportCummins  Inc.
Cummins  Inc. 2007  Sustainability  Report
Cummins  Inc.
500 Jackson  Street
Columbus,  IN USA
(812)  377-5000
www.cummins.com
Bulletin  Number  4986066