2020 
SUSTAINABILITY  
PROGRESS 
REPORT
Cummins Inc.
Our path to carbon 
neutrality includes 
powering the world’s 
first hydrogen fuel  
cell passenger train. 
PAGE 62
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTTURNING CHALLENGES  
INTO OPPORTUNITY
COVID-19 had an unprecedented 
impact on all of us. We have a history 
of turning challenges into opportunities, 
and 2020 presented many of both.COVID-19 had a devastating impact  
on our communities, our economy, and 
our people. It’s hard to think of a way 
that the pandemic has not changed  
our lives. Our business was impacted  
as well. In the second quarter, we faced 
the most severe decline in quarterly 
sales in our history, followed by a rapid 
recovery in demand.
We navigated the challenges well and 
our focus throughout the pandemic 
remained on what’s most important —  
the safety and wellbeing of our 
employees, both physically and  
mentally. For our facilities that stayed 
open, we instituted mandatory health 
screenings before entering, required 
masks, enhanced cleaning protocols, 
and redesigned spaces to allow for 
social distancing.
We closed facilities that did not need  
to remain open, and many employees  
worked from home. We started making  
masks and supplied more than 10 million  to employees. We also expanded 
employee health care programs and 
widely promoted counseling and 
leave options. We are now focusing 
on vaccinations, launching a vaccine 
education campaign, organizing on-site 
clinics where possible, and offering paid 
time off to get the necessary shots. 
Our commitment to the prosperity 
of our communities did not waver. 
We dispersed a record $22 million in 
community grants, including about 
$2.6 million in pandemic-related relief. 
We partnered with 3M and DuPont to 
use our filter technology in masks for 
healthcare workers. We assembled a 
Safe Work Playbook with the procedures 
used to open and operate our facilities, 
and we shared this publicly to help  
other companies.
This is all possible because of the 
extraordinary efforts of our employees.  
They contributed beyond expectations  
while facing their own struggles during  
a global pandemic. We are now confronted with trying 
to meet a rapid demand increase 
hampered by global supply constraints 
while ensuring we keep employees safe. 
This is the challenge ahead of us, and 
I’m highly confident we will deliver.   
MEANINGFUL CLIMATE ACTION
We continued investment in our most 
important technology programs, which 
are critical to reaching our sustainability 
pledge of carbon neutrality by 2050. 
We are investing in a range of solutions 
to lead the industry on the path to a 
zero-emissions future. We are taking 
steps today to turn our 2050 targets  
into real-world products and 
applications. We are powering the 
world’s first hydrogen fuel cell passenger 
trains. We have put more than  
600 electrolyzers into use globally,  
a key part of the solution to enabling 
green hydrogen production. 
3
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTAs we develop the technologies  
of tomorrow, we need the  
partnership of others to be successful. 
Industries and governments must  
work together to meet our global  
energy and environmental challenges. 
We are advocating for public policies 
that enable the energy transition while 
reducing emissions. This includes 
innovating and scaling low-carbon  
fuels, modernizing the grid, and 
developing the hydrogen economy. 
We have a history of more 
than 100 years of solving 
big problems. No matter 
the application, we will 
provide customers an 
economically viable solution 
so businesses can thrive, 
and we can sustain a vibrant 
economy while preserving 
the planet for generations  
to come. Our communities 
and business depend on  
a healthier planet and  
this work is our mission  
in action.TAKING ACTION  
ON SYSTEMIC RACISM
Last year we launched Cummins 
Advocating for Racial Equity (CARE)  
to take a leading role in undoing 
systemic discrimination against the 
Black community. CARE has four key 
focus areas: police reform; criminal 
justice reform; economic empowerment; 
and social justice reform in healthcare, 
housing, workforce development  
and civil rights, including voting  
rights and education.
CARE brings together all of Cummins’ 
capabilities - our people, our resources, 
and our philanthropy - to drive racial 
equity and combat the impact of racism. 
We are focusing on select communities 
where we have operations, and we are 
already making progress. 
In our headquarters state of Indiana,  
we partnered with other businesses  
and civic groups to successfully 
advocate for a civilian-led board to 
create policies and procedures on  
police conduct. We committed  
$250,000 toward the Indianapolis 
Urban League to invest in Black-owned 
businesses and entrepreneurship. Later this year, we will launch four  
new Cummins Technical Education  
for Communities workforce  
development programs, creating 
pathways for Black residents to  
acquire opportunities in transportation, 
logistics and manufacturing. 
We will continue investing in current 
and future minority-owned suppliers. 
Recently, we announced a commitment 
of $500,000 to the American Express 
Coalition to Back Black Businesses, 
established to help Black-owned 
small businesses recover from the 
disproportionate impact of COVID-19. 
To date, we have helped 60 businesses 
through our involvement. 
We are partnering with local Community 
Development Financial Institutions and 
organizations to distribute $3 million in 
aid to Black-owned businesses in four  
of our target communities, and we are 
also set to release $2 million in loans.Equally important to our community 
efforts is acting inside our walls.  
Over the last year, we have added 
two Black members to our Board of 
Directors, promoted or appointed six 
Black leaders as officers, and continued 
to assess our hiring, advancement and 
retention processes to ensure we are 
living our value of diversity and inclusion. 
These are important steps, and there  
is still much work to be done. 
LOOKING AHEAD
2020 demonstrated that merely  
focusing on the bottom line isn’t  
enough for sustainable business 
success. We serve each of our 
stakeholders by serving them all. 
I am proud of what we achieved in  
2020 and am optimistic about the 
opportunities ahead to continue 
powering a more prosperous world.
 
Tom Linebarger 
Chairman and CEO 
Cummins Inc.
4
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTREPORT CONTENTS
19  
ENVIRONMENT 
18 Acting today for a more  
 prosperous planet in 2050
20 2020 Environmental goals make  
	 Cummins	cleaner, 	more	efficient
22 Water goals
23 Energy and GHG goal
24 Waste goals
25 Products in use goals
26 Logistics goal
27 Environmental goals update
28 Supporting renewable forms  
 of energy around the world
29 Making the world a better place
30 Advocacy, partnerships  
 critical to Cummins progress2 Turning challenges into opportunity
5 Sustainability at Cummins
6 About the cover
7 Company updates matrix  
	 to	reflect	2020	developments
8 Key Performance Indicators
9 The U.N.’s Sustainable  
 Development Goals
11 Who we are 
12 How we do it
13 Cummins’ story
14 Six Sigma
15 Awards and recognition
16 Future focused2  
INTRODUCTION32  
SOCIAL
32 Building more prosperous communities
33 Community impact and giving
34 Taking on society’s biggest challenges
35 Working for gender equity  
 around the world
36 New initiatives address  
 systemic racism, the environment
37 Key health and safety metrics  
 improve in a most unusual year  
40 Driving the value of diversity
43 Helping employees reach  
 their full potential46  
GOVERNANCE / ECONOMIC
47 Board provides critical oversight during pandemic
49 Cummins Board members
50 Sustainability starts with ethical behavior
52 Making human rights a priority
53 Cybersecurity takes a holistic approach to protecting Cummins’ data
54 Cummins focuses on resiliency in managing risk
55 Making the case for a cleaner tomorrow
56 Lobbying 
57 Innovation plays key role in Cummins’ past, present and future
59 Partnering for progress
61 An innovation focused path to carbon neutrality
63 Embracing ‘new normal’ to keep employees safe and support customers
66 Cummins supply chain lives company values
68 Supporting customers through digital solutions
70 Company rebounds after historic decline caused by pandemic5
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTSUSTAINABILITY  
AT CUMMINS
Cummins’ approach to sustainability 
aligns with its mission to make  
people’s lives better by powering  
a more prosperous world. 
A more prosperous world has a financial component, certainly, but at Cummins  
it means more than that. A more prosperous world is also a world with clean air  
and clean water, where businesses partner with other stakeholders to weave a 
stronger social fabric. The company has long believed success is about more  
than just the bottom line.
The Cummins Sustainability Progress Report is divided into three sections to show  
the company’s progress toward its mission: environmental reporting, social reporting, 
and governance and economic reporting. Cummins strives to be consistent  
with the reporting structures established by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),  
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Taskforce for  
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
In addition to its disclosures to these and other reporting platforms,  
Cummins regularly reports on the company’s sustainability progress in  
The Newsroom on cummins.com.
This is the first of the Cummins’ reports related to sustainability and the  
environment, social matters and governance (ESG) that will come out  
over the next 12 weeks. Here’s a look at the others:THE CUMMINS  
2020 SASB REPORT
Cummins will again produce a report 
aligned specifically to the disclosures in 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) reporting platform. 
SASB was established in 2011 to 
provide investors with industry-specific 
sustainability information about the 
companies they are investing in.  
The Cummins 2020 SASB Report  
will be posted in the company’s 
sustainability document archive  
by the end of July 2021.
THE CUMMINS 2020 GRI  
CONTENT INDEX AND DATA BOOK
The company is again producing  
a separate posting aligned to the  
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
platform, which was established  
by the United Nations to provide  
a consistent way for companies to  
report on their ESG performance.  
The Cummins 2020 GRI Content  
Index and Data Book will be posted  
in the company’s document archive  
by the end of July 2021.CUMMINS 2020  
TCFD REPORT
Cummins will also be reporting to  
the Taskforce on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD).  
Created in 2017, TCFD is designed  
to provide investors and others with  
a clearer picture of a company’s  
climate-related disclosures and  
climate-related risks. Cummins’  
2020 TCFD Report will be posted  
in the company’s document archive  
by the end of August.
CUMMINS 2020  
CDP FILINGS
Cummins is committed to sharing its 
CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure 
Project) water and climate filings.  
The CDP was established to help  
build a truly sustainable economy 
by increasing understanding around 
a company’s environmental impact. 
The filings will be posted in Cummins’ 
sustainability document archive  
by the end of August.CUMMINS DATA
Data in this report covers well over  
75% of the company’s operations.  
More than 80% of the Environmental  
and Social Data has been reviewed 
by APEX, a leader in verification and 
assurance. Its Independent Assurance 
Statement is included in the GRI  
Content Index and Data Book.  
Financial data comes from Cummins’ 
Annual Report on Form-10K, which 
is audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP , an independent, registered public 
accounting firm.
2020-2021  
SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
Cummins has also put together another 
summary of the company’s sustainability 
programs for readers wanting a high-
level look at Cummins’ efforts over the 
past year. The overview is posted with 
the company’s other sustainability related 
reports and documents in the company’s  
document archive.6
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTABOUT THE COVER
POWERING A NEW WAY TO 
PROPEL PASSENGER TRAINS
Alstom’s pioneering Coradia iLint trains,  
the world’s first hydrogen-powered  
passenger trains, successfully completed 
nearly two years of testing in Northern 
Germany in 2020 and are scheduled  
to go into regular service in 2022.
Using fuel cell technology to convert 
hydrogen and oxygen into electricity  
for propulsion, emitting only water vapor 
and condensation, the trains successfully 
completed more than 180,000 kilometers of regular passenger service operating from 
September 2018 through February 2020. They soon started three months of additional 
testing, transporting passengers in Austria over geographically challenging routes.
Hydrogenics, now a part of Cummins, was selected by Alstom to develop and 
implement the fuel cell systems for the Coradia iLint, bringing the environmental benefits 
of electrification to passenger rail without the wires frequently associated with the service. 
The trains also produce remarkably little noise, with a top speed of 140 km/h.  
In January 2021, the Coradia iLint received the European Rail Award for outstanding  
achievement in the development of economically and environmentally sustainable  
rail transport. Other countries are interested in the technology, including the  
United Kingdom,the Netherlands, France and Italy.
Alstom, one of the leading rail manufacturers in Europe, is headquartered  
in France with a presence in more than 60 countries and more than  
38,000 employees. To learn more about the company’s hydrogen-powered  
trains, check out Alstom’s website. 
(Photos courtesy of Alstom)7
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTCOMPANY UPDATES MATRIX TO 
REFLECT 2020 DEVELOPMENTS
Cummins updated its Materiality Matrix in this 
report to reflect new issues emerging in 2020,  
such as COVID-19 and racial equity.
The importance of these topics can be seen in the 
placement of occupational health and safety and 
diversity, equity and inclusion among those issues  
of greatest concern to both the public and Cummins. 
In addition, the sustainability reporting team added 
cybersecurity and employee engagement and 
workplace culture among its impact opportunities  
to reflect their growing importance to the public  
and Cummins.
To make these changes, the reporting team 
convened a cross-functional group to review both 
developments in 2020 and the company’s matrix 
developed in 2018, when Cummins’ sustainability 
reporting team worked with Deloitte to identify issues 
where Cummins had the greatest opportunities for 
environmental, social and governance impact. The 
company and Deloitte interviewed key voices in and 
outside the company to develop the 2018 matrix.
 
 The cross functional group incorporated the  
work that went into Cummins’ previous matrix  
with feedback from several sources, including 
the Global Reporting Initiative, the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board, and the Taskforce  
on Climate Related Financial Disclosures. The team 
also reviewed topics covered in sustainability surveys 
Cummins was asked to fill out by multiple customers 
and feedback from institutional investors who have 
become increasingly interested in sustainability.
The group reaffirmed the interest in innovation  
and reducing greenhouse gases and air emissions, 
which are key issues at Cummins as the company 
pursues a carbon-neutral future.
Finally, the cross-functional team renamed and 
combined several issues for greater clarity and 
reorganized its matrix to better communicate  
the company’s priorities.
PUBLIC 
ADVOCACYCLIMATE RISK
MANAGEMENTWATER
CONSERVATION
WASTE REDUCTION
SUPPLIER
DIVERSITYHUMAN RIGHTS 
(WITHIN COMPANY 
OPERATIONS)
MATERIAL 
SOURCING
PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE
AND REMANUFACTURING
SUPPLY CHAIN
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCEENVIRONMENTAL
COMPLIANCE
FACILITY ENERGY
USE, AIR AND GHG
EMISSIONS
FACILITY AIR
EMISSIONS
SUPPLY CHAIN
WORKING
CONDITIONS
CYBERSECURITYEMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT
AND WORKPLACE
CULTUREINNOVATIONDIVERSITY,
EQUITY AND
INCLUSIONPRODUCT GHG
AND AIR EMISSIONSPRODUCT QUALITY
AND CUSTOMER
SATISFACTION
OCCUPATIONAL
HEALTH AND
SAFETY
BOARD DIVERSITY
AND INDEPENDENCE
FINANCIAL 
MANAGEMENT
PAY AND BENEFITS
COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENTETHICS AND
COMPLIANCEDISCLOSURE
HIGH
COMPANY INTEREST
MEDIUMFoundational to sustainability Impact opportunities
PUBLIC INTEREST8
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT2018 2019 2020
Revenue $23.8 billion $23.6 billion $19.8 billion
Net Income $2.1 billion $2.4 billion $1.8 billion
2018 2019 2020
GHG emissions (thousands of metric tons CO2e) 808 751 656
Energy consumption1 (thousands of MMBtu) 14,375 14,043 12,673
Water use (millions of gallons) 949 895 772
Water intensity reduction2  (2010 baseline) 50% 53% 53%
Energy intensity reduction2,3  (2010 baseline) 29% 31% 27%
GHG intensity reduction2,3  (2010 baseline) 37% 42% 41%
Recycling rate 90% 91% 93%
2018 2019 2020
H&S Severity Case Rate 0.264 0.225 0.209
H&S Incidence Rate 0.646 0.593 0.482
Code of Conduct cases 2,215 2,436 1,601
Women leaders in the workforce 23.22% 23.90% 25%
Every Employee Every Community (EEEC) participation rate 83% 82% 34%
People impacted by EEEC projects 4.3 million 6.5 million 1.4 millionECONOMIC
ENVIRONMENTAL
SOCIALKEY  
PERFORMANCE  
INDICATORS
Cummins takes a broad view 
of sustainability, including 
the environment, corporate 
responsibility, health and safety, 
diversity and inclusion, employee 
development and governance. 
The company tracks many key 
performance indicators.  
Here are just a few:
1 Primary energy excludes sold  
 electricity and associated fuel usage  
2  Intensity defined as adjusted for sales  
 (energy / GHG) or hours worked (water) 
3  Reduction includes consolidated entities onlyCummins believes in transparency. 
This icon identifies multi-year data 
that allows for comparisons.9
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTU.N. GOAL CUMMINS’ ROLE STATUS SUMMARY LEARN MORE
NO. 1  
NO POVERTY Cummins TEC provides 
disadvantaged youth a  
path to decent jobs.TEC has produced 1,700 graduates  
since it was launched in 2012.Page 34
NO. 4  
QUALITY  
EDUCATIONEducation is one of three areas 
of focus for the company’s 
community engagement efforts.14% of the company’s Corporate 
Responsibility grants in 2020 went to 
education initiatives, often supporting 
employee-led projects.Page 33
NO. 5  
GENDER  
EQUALITYCummins Powers Women  
works with expert non-profits  
to address equality for women 
and girls.The Cummins Powers Women  
initiative impacted the lives of  
some 17 million women and girls  
since its launch in 2018.Page 35
NO. 6  
CLEAN WATER  
AND SANITATIONWater is a key focus  
for the company’s  
PLANET 2050 strategy.Cummins has reduced its  
absolute water use between  
2010 and 2020 by about 28%.Page 22
NO. 7  
AFFORDABLE  
AND CLEAN 
ENERGYEnergy is a key focus  
for the company’s  
PLANET 2050 strategy.A Cummins-supported wind farm  
expansion in Indiana (U.S.) is sending 
enough renewable power to the grid  
to offset the electricity the company  
uses in its headquarters state.Page 28THE U.N.’S  
SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT  
GOALS
Cummins supports the U.N.’s Sustainable  
Development Goals to “end poverty, protect  
the planet and ensure prosperity for all.” 
As a signer of the U.N. Global Compact  
in 2017, the company wants to do its part  
to make the world a better place to live. 
Cummins believes its initiatives touch  
17 goals with a special focus on  
10 where it has the biggest impact.  
Here are some examples:
10
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTU.N. GOAL CUMMINS’ ROLE STATUS SUMMARY LEARN MORE
NO. 8  
DECENT WORK 
AND ECONOMIC 
GROWTHThe company’s mission is  
to build a more prosperous  
world for all stakeholders.The company has multiple efforts  
in this area including its living  
wage initiative internally and  
its CARE program externally. Page 36
Page 43
NO. 9  
INDUSTRY  
INNOVATION AND 
INFRASTRUCTURECummins is working to improve 
its traditional technologies such 
as diesel and natural gas engines 
and develop new low-carbon 
technologies such as fuel cell 
electric and battery electric.In 2020, Cummins received a record  
312 patents while spending more than  
$900 million on research, development  
and engineering for a third consecutive year.Page 57
NO. 12  
RESPONSIBLE  
CONSUMPTION  
AND PRODUCTIONReducing the company’s  
energy consumption was  
a key focus of Cummins’  
2020 environmental goals.In 2020, Cummins fell just short of its  
energy intensity reduction goal, achieving 
a 27% reduction from company facilities 
compared to a 2010 baseline.Page 23
NO. 13  
CLIMATE  
ACTIONAddressing climate change  
is part of the company’s  
PLANET 2050 strategy.The strategy includes science-based  
2030 goals, aligned with the Paris 
Agreement to address climate change. 
Cummins also held first Hydrogen Day in 
2020 to showcase its products connected 
to this promising low carbon fuel source.Page 18
NO. 17  
PARTNERSHIPS  
TO ACHIEVE 
GOALSCummins believes strongly 
in partnering to improve its 
products, build stronger 
communities and address  
the environment.Cummins partnered on a wide  
range of projects, including with  
DuPont and 3M to produce  
personal protective equipment  
for medical professionals in 2020.Page 63
ABOUT THE GLOBAL COMPACT
Cummins is a member of the United Nations  
Global Compact. It is organized around  
10 fundamental principles:
HUMAN RIGHTS
 »Businesses should support 
and respect the protection of 
internationally proclaimed human 
rights.
 »Businesses should make sure  
that they are not complicit in  
human rights abuses.
LABOR
 »Businesses should uphold the  
freedom of association and the 
effective recognition of the right  
to collective bargaining.
 »Businesses should work for the 
elimination of all forms of forced  
and compulsory labor.
 »Businesses should strive for the 
effective abolition of child labor.
 »Businesses should support the 
elimination of discrimination in 
employment and occupation.ENVIRONMENT
 »Businesses should support 
a precautionary approach to 
environmental challenges.
 »Businesses should undertake  
initiatives to promote greater 
environmental responsibility.
 »Businesses should encourage  
the development and diffusion  
of environmentally friendly 
technologies.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
 »Businesses should work  
against corruption in all its forms, 
including extortion and bribery.THE U.N.’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (CONT.)11
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTWHO WE ARE 
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a 
corporation of complementary business 
segments that design, manufacture,  
distribute and service a broad portfolio  
of power solutions. The company’s products  
include diesel, natural gas, electric and hybrid 
powertrains and powertrain-related components 
such as filtration, aftertreatment, turbochargers, 
fuel systems, controls systems, air handling 
systems, automated transmissions, electric 
power generation systems, batteries,  
electrified power systems, hydrogen  
generation and fuel cell products. WORLD  
HEADQUARTERS
500 Jackson St.  
Columbus, IN 47201
cummins.com
CMIFORTUNE 500  
RANKING  
(2021)150
SALES / EARNINGS
Cummins earned  
$1.8 billion on  
sales of $19.8 billion.CUSTOMERS
Cummins serves its customers online,  
through a network of company-owned  
and independent distributor locations,  
and through thousands of dealer  
locations worldwide.57,825 EMPLOYEES  
WORLDWIDE
More than 50% of the company’s employees  
are located outside the United States.
(as of Dec. 31, 2020) EST. 
STOCK SYMBOL 
(New York Stock Exchange)12
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTENGINE SEGMENT
Clean, efficient, dependable and 
durable, Cummins engines are found 
in nearly every type of commercial truck 
and equipment on Earth. The Engine 
business segment designs and builds 
diesel and natural gas engines for heavy- 
and medium-duty trucks, buses, light 
duty trucks and for off-highway markets 
including agriculture, construction and 
military equipment.
POWER SYSTEMS
Cummins Power Generation is a world 
leader in the design and manufacture of 
power equipment. The Power Systems 
segment produces power generation 
systems, components, and services in 
standby and prime power, distributed 
power generation, combined heat and 
power and auxiliary power in mobile 
applications. It also designs and builds 
the high horsepower engines used for 
these and other purposes. 
COMPONENTS
Engine manufacturers around the world 
incorporate the Components segment’s 
technologies to make their products truly 
outstanding. Components is organized 
around these entities:
 »CUMMINS EMISSION SOLUTIONS designs 
and builds exhaust aftertreatment 
solutions to reduce engine emissions.
 »CUMMINS FILTRATION designs and 
builds heavy-duty air, fuel, hydraulic  
and lube filtration, and chemical and 
exhaust system technology products.
 »CUMMINS FUEL SYSTEMS designs  
and builds fuel systems that maximize 
power and fuel economy while  
helping reduce emissions. 
 »CUMMINS TURBO TECHNOLOGIES  
designs and builds turbochargers  
to maximize engine performance  
and reduce emissions and  
fuel consumption.NEW POWER
The New Power segment includes 
battery-electric and fuel cell electric 
products as well as products used in 
renewable hydrogen production and 
potentially other new power initiatives. 
Cummins in 2019 acquired Hydrogenics, 
a fuel cell and hydrogen production 
technologies company, which is now 
included in the segment.
DISTRIBUTION 
The Distribution segment provides 
sales, service and support to customers 
around the world through the largest 
number of certified service and support 
locations of any engine manufacturer. 
Cummins has the technical expertise  
and experience to deliver fast, high 
quality repairs; planned maintenance  
and upgraded solutions.
HOW WE DO IT
For almost 20 years Cummins was  
organized into four business segments.  
Then, in 2018, the company established  
the Electrified Power segment to develop  
electric powertrains and related components.  
In 2019, the segment was renamed New  
Power to better reflect its expanded portfolio, 
including electrification, hydrogen-powered  
fuel cells and potentially other new technologies. 13
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
CUMMINS’ STORY
MISSION 
Making people’s lives better by 
powering a more prosperous world
VISION 
Innovating for our customers 
to power their successWHAT WE WANT TO ACCOMPLISHWHY WE EXISTLEADERSHIP  
CULTURE
Inspiring and encouraging 
all employees to achieve 
their full potential
BRAND 
PROMISE
Powering our customers  
through innovation  
and dependability
STRATEGY
Delivering value  
to all stakeholdersHOW WE WILL DO IT
VALUES
INTEGRITY
Doing what you say you will  
do and doing what is right
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
Valuing and including our  
differences in decision making  
is our competitive advantage
CARING
Demonstrating awareness  
and consideration for the  
wellbeing of others
EXCELLENCE
Always delivering superior results
TEAMWORK
Collaborating across teams, 
functions, businesses and  
borders to deliver the best work
131314
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTSIX SIGMA
Cummins is a big proponent of Six Sigma,  
using the business improvement tool to save  
the company and its customers billions of dollars.
Six Sigma uses data-based analysis to 
identify defects and variation in a wide 
range of manufacturing and business 
situations. Cummins employees also 
frequently use Six Sigma when working 
with community partners on community 
engagement projects.
In 2020, Cummins’ Six Sigma program  
evolved to provide more on-demand 
tools, methods and learning support 
through a new website with less 
emphasis on classroom training. The 
change paid immediate dividends with 
many employees working from home 
because of the pandemic.
Cummins saw a 52.5% increase in  
Six Sigma related savings in 2020 
compared to historical targets, including 
cost reductions and cost avoidance  
initiatives. Closed projects for the year 
had a value of $915 million compared  
to a target of $600 million.The company’s Six Sigma program  
has now identified an estimated  
$7.7 billion in Profit Before Interest  
and Taxes savings since the tool was  
first implemented in 2000, including 
$284 million in 2020. Cummins 
customers, meanwhile, have saved  
an estimated $2.55 billion through  
Six Sigma since the tool was first  
offered to them in 2005, including 
$129.7 million in 2020.
Completed projects in 2020 tackled 
everything from tax issues in Mexico  
to engine shipping challenges and data 
storage issues across the company.  
The program now says more than half of  
the company’s salaried employees have  
been trained in the problem-solving tool.MORE THAN  
COST SAVINGS
Six Sigma’s impact at Cummins  
goes beyond cost savings and  
building stronger communities. 
The tool provides the company  
with a common language and 
collective mindset that can be  
used to address a problem or 
challenge almost anywhere  
in the world
As a continuous improvement 
company, Cummins is committed  
to providing its employees with  
the tools they need to solve  
the most important challenges  
in the business.2020: A YEAR TO REMEMBER
Cummins employees exceeded the 
company’s target for Six Sigma related 
savings despite the global pandemic.
02004006008001000
Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct 2020 Nov 2020 Dec 2020$915 million
$600 millionTWENTY 
Years Cummins has used Six Sigma  
as its principal problem-solving tool
7.7 BILLION
PBIT (Profit Before Interest and Taxes)  
savings in dollars since Six Sigma  
was implemented at Cummins
52.5%
Six Sigma savings identified  
over historical targets in 2020
284  
MILLION  
Savings in dollars  
identified by Six Sigma 
projects in 2020  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  
Savings achieved by employees
Historical target15
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTAWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Cummins received several awards and recognition related to  
sustainability during 2020 and early 2021. Here’s a brief look:
ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
 »Cummins is named to the 2020 S&P DOW JONES INDICES  
OF THE MOST SUSTAINABLE COMPANIES IN NORTH AMERICA  
for a 15th consecutive year.
 »Cummins qualifies for the 2021 SUSTAINALYTICS ESG 
INDUSTRY TOP RATED BADGE for high performers among  
the 12,000 companies reviewed by the environmental,  
social and governance research and ratings firm.
 »Cummins is named to INVESTOR’S BUSINESS DAILY’S  
2020 BEST ESG COMPANIES list for performance on 
environmental, social and governance matters,  
ranking No. 37 (up from No. 48 on 2019 list).
 »Cummins is named to BARRON’S 2021 LIST OF  
THE 100 MOST SUSTAINABLE COMPANIES, ranking  
No. 84 on the magazine’s list.
 »Cummins is named to FTSE4GOOD 2020 INDEX of  
companies demonstrating strong environmental,  
social and governance performance.DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
 »Cummins in 2020 receives the highest ranking for  
a culture of diversity and inclusion as part of the  
CULTURE CHAMPIONS STUDY BY THE MASSACHUSETTS 
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AND GLASSDOOR.  
The company also receives high marks for creating  
cultures of integrity and respect. 
 »Cummins is named in 2020 to the 20th annual list  
of AMERICA’S TOP CORPORATIONS FOR WOMEN’S  
BUSINESS ENTERPRISES, honoring world class  
supplier diversity programs. 
 »Cummins is named a TOP SCORING COMPANY  
ON THE 2020 DISABILITY EQUALITY INDEX, a national 
benchmarking tool enabling businesses to self-report  
on disability inclusion policies and practices.  
The company is also named a BEST PLACE TO  
WORK FOR DISABILITY INCLUSION by the index.
 »Cummins again receives a perfect score in the Human 
Rights Campaign’s 2021 CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX, 
qualifying the company as a BEST PLACE TO WORK FOR  
LGBTQ EQUALITY. The Human Rights Campaign is the  
world’s leading advocate for LGBTQ rights. ETHICS AND ETHICAL BEHAVIOR
 »Cummins is named to the ETHISPHERE INSTITUTE’S 2021  
LIST OF THE WORLD’S MOST ETHICAL COMPANIES for a  
14th consecutive year. The list honors top companies  
for ethics and compliance around the world.
 »Cummins in 2020 is named to NEWSWEEK’S LIST OF 
AMERICA’S MOST RESPONSIBLE COMPANIES for 2021,  
ranking No. 24.
 »Cummins is named in 2020 to FORBES’ 2021 JUST 100  
LIST, A RANKING OF AMERICA’S MOST JUST COMPANIES. 
Cummins finishes No. 99.
MANAGEMENT AND WORKPLACE
 »Cummins in 2020 moves up 24 places to No. 64 in  
the WALL STREET JOURNAL’S 2020 MANAGEMENT TOP 250,  
a ranking developed by the Drucker Institute for  
the newspaper.
 »Cummins in 2021 is named one of AMERICA’S BEST LARGE 
EMPLOYERS OF 2021 by Forbes magazine and Statista,  
a leading provider of market and consumer data.16
INTRODUCTION // 
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTCummins begins operations  
in India, first as a joint venture  
with one plant in Pune.  
Today, the company owns all or part of  
20 manufacturing facilities in the country  
and employs nearly 14,000 people.1962
1940FUTURE FOCUSED
For more than 100 years  
Cummins has been at the  
forefront of new ideas.  
Here’s a brief look  
at the company’s  
remarkable history.Cummins earns  
its first profit.1937
Miller becomes Chairman  
of the Cummins Board.1951
1910 1950 1920 1960 1990 1930 1970 2000 1980
Miller lays out his thinking on Corporate  
Responsibility in Cummins’ 1972 Annual Report. 
“While some still argue that business  
has no social responsibility, we believe  
that our survival in the very long run is  
as dependent upon responsible citizenship  
in our communities and in the society as it  
is on responsible technological, financial  
and production performance.”1972
J. Irwin Miller, great-nephew 
of W.G. Irwin, becomes  
general manager of  
Cummins at the age of 24.1934
President and Chief Operating 
Officer Tom Linebarger succeeds 
Tim Solso as Chairman and CEO 
on Jan. 1. During Solso’s 10 years 
leading Cummins, the company 
experienced record growth.
2012Miller helps Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. with 
some of the organizing behind the 1963 
March on Washington. Miller was acting as 
leader of the National Council of Churches.
1963Cummins purchases  
86% of the Onan  
Corporation in suburban 
Minneapolis, Minnesota  
(U.S.), which would  
become the basis for its 
Power Systems Business.
1986
 Miller becomes Executive  
Vice President of Cummins.
1944Clessie Cummins creates the 
Cummins Engine Company  
based in Columbus, Indiana (U.S.). 
William G. Irwin, who employed 
Cummins as a driver, supplies 
nearly all of the $50,000 in  
startup capital.
1919
Cummins takes Irwin for a ride in a used Packard 
limousine that he equipped with a diesel engine 
on Christmas Day, convincing Irwin of the engine’s 
potential. Irwin invests a much-needed infusion of cash.
1929
Miller retires as Chairman of  
the Board, although he remains  
active with the company until  
his death in 2004.
1977Cummins enters China as part of a 
deal involving heavy construction  
equipment with  
Cummins engines.
1975Cummins barnstorms across the country, 
demonstrating the power and fuel 
efficiency of the diesel engine in his  
Coast to Coast Cummins Diesel Test Bus.
1932
Cummins establishes its Electrified Power 
business segment, renaming it New Power 
in 2019 to reflect investments in hydrogen 
generation and hydrogen fuel cells. 
2018
Cummins celebrates  
100 years in business.
Cummins unveils PLANET 2050 
strategy to further reduce its  
carbon footprint and address 
climate change.2019
Cummins holds first virtual 
Hydrogen Day, showing 
an audience of nearly 
2,000 the company’s 
progress working with the 
promising low-carbon fuel.2020
A global pandemic closes 
most Cummins locations 
for at least several weeks, 
but the company learns to 
safely reopen and support 
customers performing 
essential work.
2020
17
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
Cummins is committed to reducing its 
carbon footprint and doing more to use 
less of the world’s natural resources.  
The company is also committed to  
acting with transparency. WHAT’S INSIDE:
PLANET 2050 UPDATE ......................................................... 18
ACCOMPLISHMENTS .......................................................... 20
2020 GOAL PROGRESS ....................................................... 22
CUMMINS AND RENEWABLES ........................................... 28
ENVIRONMENTAL SITE MAP .............................................. 29
PARTNERSHIPS .................................................................... 30ENVIRONMENT18
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTACTING TODAY FOR A 
MORE PROSPEROUS 
PLANET IN 2050
Creating a bold strategy and aggressive goals was 
hard work. Now comes the even more challenging 
part — creating what it takes to make Cummins’ 
PLANET 2050 vision a reality. In 2019, as part of Cummins’ 100th 
anniversary, Chairman and CEO Tom 
Linebarger launched PLANET 2050 – the 
company’s environmental sustainability 
strategy that sets eight quantifiable goals 
for 2030 along with visionary longer-term 
aspirations timed to 2050. The three 
focus areas for the strategy are:
 »Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) 
and air emissions in line with experts’ 
recommendations.
 »Using natural resources in the most 
sustainable way possible.
 »Helping communities address their 
major environmental challenges.
MAJOR THEMES
The Cummins PLANET 2050 team  
in 2020 focused on defining the 
integration and execution plans  
required to make the foundational 
changes needed for the company’s  
2030 goals. Cummins will more formally 
begin reporting the progress of these 
efforts starting in 2022. The team’s  
work over the last year can be 
categorized along three major themes:
 »Building capability in teams, tools, 
resources, and data management
 »Implementing operational excellence 
for engaging with customers across the supply chain, transitioning to  
a circular economy that eliminates 
waste and extends product life  
as long as possible.
 »Define operational improvements  
with a focus on manufacturing and 
testing for goal achievement.
There are several key areas that are  
a major focus for 2021. One is to  
identify and refine product 
decarbonization pathways for the  
2030 goals and the 2050 aspiration  
of carbon neutrality. The team is  
working on evolving the company’s 
Science-Based Target baseline data 
to a higher level of fidelity for scenario 
planning and integration into technical 
and product planning processes.  
In recognition of the increasing 
importance of working across 
stakeholders, the team is also 
establishing a system that would better 
facilitate working collaboratively and 
proactively with customers on collective 
sustainability goals. This framework will 
leverage cross-business insights and 
commitments to align and build the right 
processes, data, tools, training and more 
to forge even stronger partnerships.UP FOR THE CHALLENGE
While the company has good examples 
of optimizing material efficiency in 
key areas today, more is needed to 
increase the breadth of coverage and 
enable product development teams to 
assess environmental impacts across 
the lifecycle of Cummins’ products. 
The company is adding in-house 
Lifecycle Analysis (LCA) tools to inform 
and improve these decision-making 
processes and allow Cummins to set 
material efficiency targets.
The company is also building on its 
deep expertise and experience with 
reducing energy use and GHGs, as 
well as waste production and water 
use at Cummins operations globally. 
The 2030 goals involve reductions that 
require both greater investment and 
deeper understanding and changes to 
manufacturing and testing operations.
So, the challenges are plentiful as 
Cummins begins implementing its 
PLANET 2050 strategy and looks  
ahead to its 2030 goals and beyond. 
The challenges will mean more hard 
work, but the company intends  
to meet them. 
New solar panels line a parking lot at 
the Cummins campus in San Luis Potosí, 
Mexico. The company is working to increase 
its use of low-carbon, renewable power.PLANET 2050 UPDATE // 
U.N. GOAL #13 
CLIMATE ACTION19
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTPercentage reduction 
goal for volatile organic 
compound (VOC) emissions 
from paint and coating 
operations by 2030.
Percentage goal for 
recycling of packaging 
plastics and elimination  
of single use plastics in 
dining facilities by 2030.55 MILLION
Reduction goal for scope 
3 GHG emissions from 
products in the field by 2030, 
partnering with customers.PLANET 2050 ASPIRATIONS
USING NATURAL 
RESOURCES IN THE 
MOST SUSTAINABLE WAY
2050 TARGETS:  
 Design out waste in products 
 and processes
 Use materials again for next life 
 Reuse water and return clean 
 to the community2050 TARGETS:  
 Net positive impact in 
 every community where 
 Cummins operates.
 Near zero local site 
 environmental footprin t.COMMUNITIES ARE 
BETTER BECAUSE 
WE ARE THERE DOING OUR PART TO 
ADDRESS CLIMATE CHANGE 
AND AIR EMISSIONS
2050 TARGETS:
 Customer success is powered 
 by carbon neutral technologies   
 that address air quality.
  Carbon neutrality and near zero   
 pollution in Cummins’ facilities 
 and operations.
2030 GOALS
1. Reduce absolute greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions from facilities  
and operations by 50%.
2. Reduce scope 3 absolute lifetime 
GHG emissions from newly  
sold products by 25%.
3. Partner with customers to  
reduce scope 3 GHG emissions 
from products in the field by  
55 million metric tons.
4. Reduce volatile organic 
compounds emissions from paint 
and coating operations by 50%.
5. Create a circular life-cycle  
plan for every part to use less, 
use better, use again.
6. Generate 25% less waste  
in facilities and operations  
as a percent of revenue.
7. Reuse or responsibly recycle 
100% of packaging plastics and 
eliminate single-use plastics in 
dining facilities, at employee 
events and as amenities.
8. Reduce absolute water 
consumption in facilities  
and operations by 30%.CIRCULAR ECONOMY SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS
NOTE: Company facilities include all consolidated operations and joint ventures that are part of the Cummins Enterprise Environmental Management System.  
The company’s strategy also includes addressing environmental needs in communities where Cummins employees live and work and where the company  
does business. Those goals are under development.PLANET 2050 UPDATE // 
  2030 KEY NUMBERS  
Percentage reduction goal 
for waste in facilities and 
operations as a percent  
of revenues by 2030.Percentage reduction 
goal for absolute GHG 
emissions from facilities 
and operations by 2030.50
5025
10020
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT2020 ENVIRONMENTAL 
GOALS MAKE CUMMINS 
CLEANER, MORE EFFICIENT
Cummins wrapped up work on the company’s 2020 
environmental sustainability goals with a number  
of achievements, including significant gains in water 
conservation and waste and energy reduction.
The company, for example, achieved 
its goal of reducing water use intensity 
(water use adjusted by hours worked) 
by 50% in 2018 and extended that 
reduction to 53% in 2020. Sixteen 
sites achieved Cummins’ definition of 
water neutrality by the end of 2020 — 
exceeding the goal of 15. 
Meanwhile, 35 sites reached the 
company’s zero disposal standard, 
exceeding the goal of 30. Cummins 
recycled 93% of the total waste it 
generated, the highest performance in 
company history, although just short  
of the company’s 2020 goal of 95%.On energy, Cummins significantly 
increased its use of renewable wind and  
solar energy by 2020 and the company 
also increased high efficiency LED lighting 
coverage to about 85%. Over the past 
five years, Cummins invested $65 million 
in energy improvements, saving about 
$19 million per year. 
Finally, the company worked with 
customers to exceed for a third 
consecutive year Cummins’ goal of 
reaching an annual run-rate reduction of 
3.5 million metric tons (MMT) of carbon 
dioxide (CO2) from Cummins products 
in use, ending 2020 with a run rate 
reduction of 4.9 million MMT of CO2.
Cummins employees (left) at the company’s 
engine plant in Rocky Mount, North Carolina 
(U.S.), officially launch the plant’s Water Hub 
(above) in 2020. It uses a variety of treatment 
technologies including hydroponics to return 
millions of gallons of water to the plant 
annually for non-potable uses.  
ACCOMPLISHMENTS // 21
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTLEADERSHIP VOICES
I can’t say enough about 
the tremendous work done 
to meet our 2020 goals, 
from goal leaders and their 
teams to the efforts of all 
employees who did their 
part for sustainability.  
Our employees persevered. 
They found creative 
solutions. They kept moving 
forward even when it was hard 
and there were constraints.  
And yes, the final year of our plan 
was during a global pandemic.  
Yet Cummins did what we said  
we would do and did it well.”
TIM MILLWOOD 
Vice President, Manufacturing
I remember when we 
created the 2020 plan, 
expanding into a wide  
range of public goals  
across greenhouse  
gases, water and waste.  
It is amazing to now  
reflect on how we used  
our data and experience —  
combined with our passion and 
commitment — to produce really 
powerful results. Our employees 
took on hundreds of projects  
and championed them with skill  
and determination. It has been a 
fantastic journey so far with really 
terrific work and more to come!”
BRIAN MORMINO
Executive Director,  
Technical & Environmental SystemsThere’s no question, taken as a whole, 
the 2020 goals have made the company 
a cleaner, more efficient partner in the 
communities where Cummins facilities 
are located.
ABOUT THE GOALS
The company announced its first 
comprehensive global environmental 
sustainability plan in 2014. That plan had 
seven goals; five involving water, waste 
and energy in Cummins facilities, one 
dealing with logistics in the company’s 
intercompany network, and the products 
in use goal to reduce the CO2 used by 
Cummins products already in the field.
Most of the goals in the plan were 
new. However, the company had been 
working to reduce energy use for some 
time. Cummins’ 2020 energy goal was 
actually the company’s fourth energy-
greenhouse gas reduction goal since 
2006. Cummins established new  
energy goals upon achieving its  
previous targets.
The company’s environmental team was 
an early adopter of establishing goals 
and publicly reporting its progress on 
them as a means to drive environmental progress. (See page 27 for final goal 
statistics in individual areas as well as 
details on each of the principal goals.)
The final numbers, however, don’t tell  
the entire story, especially during 2020. 
COVID’S TOLL
Last year’s progress report included 
a story on the potential impact the 
pandemic could have on achieving  
some 2020 goals. And it did.  
For example, the company had to 
postpone more than half of its planned 
capital improvement projects to  
address COVID-19 safety and other 
pandemic-related matters. 
Cummins sites that remained open were 
asked to increase facility ventilation rates 
and disable energy recovery systems, 
which increased energy use. Work was 
spread across multiple shifts to facilitate 
employee social distancing.  
While many offices and other facilities 
were closed for extended periods of 
time, those facilities still required some 
energy to maintain critical building 
operations. All of these actions increased 
energy intensity, which for energy and water were adjusted by hours worked. 
Cummins’ energy intensity target for 
2020 was 32% and the company 
reached 31% in 2019 but ended  
2020 at 27%.
Reaching the logistics efficiency goal 
was hampered by expedited shipments 
required during the crisis. Cummins’ 
products power many critical functions 
including the transportation of food  
and medicine.
There were also some instances where 
Cummins narrowly missed its goal that 
had little to do with COVID-19. For 
example, the company knew its recycling 
target of 95% was aggressive, and it 
seemed even more so after Cummins 
absorbed or acquired additional sites 
and faced challenges finding places 
to recycle in some parts of the world. 
Despite those challenges, the company 
only missed its recycling goal by two 
percentage points. 
As was the case with that goal,  
even when Cummins missed it made 
significant progress toward the standard 
it was trying to reach — an important 
lesson as the company now begins  
work on Cummins’ 2030 goals.
65 MILLION
Amount in dollars invested 
over the past five years  
on energy improvements  
at Cummins.  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  
Percentage reduction 
in water intensity (water 
use adjusted by hours 
worked) achieved in 2020, 
exceeding Cummins’ goal.
Percentage of total  
waste recycled in 2020.
Sites achieving Cummins’ 
zero disposal standard,  
five above the 2020 goal.53
93
35
SIXTEEN
Sites achieving Cummins’ water neutrality 
standard, one above the 2020 goal.22
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTWATER GOALS
Reduce direct  
water use across 
Cummins by 50%  
by 2020, adjusted  
by hours worked. 
Achieve water  
neutrality at 15 Cummins 
manufacturing, technical, 
and other larger sites 
located in regions where 
water is in short supply.
BASELINE YEAR: 20102020 GOAL PROGRESS //
WATER PROGRESS
Cummins exceeded both of its 
2020 water goals. The company 
hit its water use intensity (water 
use adjusted by hours worked) 
reduction target of 50% in 2018, 
and surpassed it in both 2019  
and 2020, ending 2020 with a  
53% reduction.
The company reduced its overall water 
consumption to 772 million gallons, a 
reduction of 361 million gallons from 
Cummins’ 2010 baseline year and a 
decrease of 200 million gallons since 
the company initiated its water strategy 
in 2014. The reduction of 123 million 
gallons between 2019 and 2020 was the 
single biggest year-to-year drop in direct 
water consumption since the baseline 
was set. This was primarily due to a  14% reduction in hours worked in 2020 
rather than a change in the intensity of 
water use.
Since the 2010 baseline, direct water 
use at the company is down by 32%, 
even with an increase in the number of 
facilities during that time period.
Much of Cummins’ water efficiency 
improvements in company facilities 
to meet its 2020 goal were achieved 
through low- and no-cost efforts, notably 
fixing leaks and optimizing processes. 
Efforts have also involved capital 
projects, primarily equipment efficiency 
upgrades and other high-impact projects 
such as single pass cooling elimination, 
additional regenerative dynamometer 
installations and innovative wastewater 
reuse projects.Cummins’ water neutrality efforts have 
also yielded success. Sixteen sites were 
validated as achieving the company’s 
standard for water neutrality, surpassing 
the company’s 2020 goal of 15.  
In many instances these locations are 
offsetting their water use with community 
improvements to either conserve water 
or make new water sources available.
Examples include initiatives in villages 
near the company’s campus in Phaltan, 
India, where Cummins employees have 
worked with village residents for many 
years to establish water supplies that 
make the villages less vulnerable to 
periods of drought. Water neutral sites 
must be re-evaluated every year to  
count toward goal achievement.WATER STRATEGY
The goals of Cummins’ 
comprehensive water strategy,  
which addresses both direct-water 
use and community engagement,  
are to mitigate business risk, to be 
a good global citizen and to reduce 
costs and compliance risks. 
These goals are consistent with  
the core commitments of the CEO 
Water Mandate, which Cummins 
joined in 2019. The U.N. Global 
Compact’s commitment initiative 
mobilizes business leaders on  
water, sanitation and the U.N.’s 
Sustainable Development Goals. 
Endorsers of the CEO Water 
Mandate commit to continuous 
progress against six core elements 
of stewardship and, in so doing, 
understand and manage their own 
water risks. The mandate’s six 
commitment areas: 
 »Direct operations
 »Supply chain and  
watershed management
 »Collective action
 »Public policy
 »Community engagement
 »TransparencyWATER 
INTENSITY 
PROGRESS
Percentage reduction of  
direct water use adjusted  
by hours worked.2020 GOAL ACHIEVED2019
54%
2016
42%2015
41%
2014
35%2017
44%2020
53%
2018
50%
WATER NEUTRALITY STATUS
16 SITES
U.N. GOAL #6 
CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION23
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTENERGY AND 
GHG GOAL
Achieve a 32% energy 
intensity reduction from 
company facilities by  
2020 and increase the 
portion of electricity 
Cummins uses derived  
from renewable sources.
BASELINE YEAR: 2010ENERGY AND GHG PROGRESS
Cummins energy intensity  
target (absolute energy use 
adjusted by hours worked)  
for 2020 was 32%, but ultimately, 
the company fell just short, 
ending the year at 27%.
The company had been on track to 
reach its goal, achieving a 31% intensity 
reduction in late 2019, but the year-end 
2020 intensity reduction was impacted 
by COVID-19. Cummins’ absolute 
energy use fell by 10% in 2020, but 
hours worked decreased even more —  
by 14% — which negatively impacted  
the energy intensity metric.Despite the pandemic-related setback, 
Cummins’ improvement over the goal 
period was significant. The 2020 goal 
was the company’s fourth energy-
greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goal 
since 2006. Upon achieving a goal, 
Cummins set new targets to reach.
The company has long identified energy 
and GHGs as an important metric and 
had completed the relatively inexpensive 
energy reduction projects before the 
2020 goal period began. Over the past 
five years, Cummins invested $65 million 
in energy reduction projects, saving  
$19 million each year, with an average 
return on investment of 3.4 years.The company has also done outstanding 
work to optimize energy use through 
low/no cost improvements, especially  
in India, China and Latin America.
Absolute energy use decreased  
quarter to quarter through the third 
quarter of 2020. The fourth quarter 
saw a fractional increase in energy 
consumption as compared to the third 
quarter. By the end of 2020 rolling four 
quarter energy use had fallen 12% from 
the last quarter of 2018, the highest 
absolute quarter of energy use at the 
company. Total energy costs in 2020 
were approximately $150 million or 
about 8% of Cummins’ net income.
A global campaign for high efficiency 
LED lighting during the year produced 
impressive results. About 85% of the 
company’s light fixtures are now LED. 
In 2016, the company pledged to have 
90% of its facility GHG footprint, or 
40 sites, certified to the ISO energy 
management standard 50001. By the 
end of 2020, Cummins had surpassed 
that goal, reaching 45 sites. Between 
2010 and 2020, the company’s energy 
efficiency and renewable energy efforts 
reduced Cummins’ GHG intensity  
by 41%.The GHG intensity reduction did not 
include the impact from the company’s 
virtual power purchase agreement 
to support the 2018 expansion of a 
northwest Indiana wind farm in the 
United States. Cummins’ share of the 
expansion sends enough low carbon 
energy to the grid to offset all of the 
electricity used at Cummins’ facilities 
across the state.2020 GOAL PROGRESS //
ENERGY 
INTENSITY 
PROGRESS
Percentage reduction in  
energy intensity (adjusted  
by hours worked) compared  
to 2010 baseline year.ENERGY STRATEGY
Cummins continues to use a  
facility investment plan approach.  
This approach includes a 
comprehensive array of energy 
efficient and renewable energy 
technologies, such as compressed air 
optimization, test cell energy recovery, 
on-site solar, LED lighting and 
advanced machine controls.
Aggregated savings from energy 
efficiency efforts total about  
$62 million per year. Cummins uses 
tools and resources available from 
programs such as ISO 50001, the 
international energy management 
system standard, and the U.S. 
Department of Energy’s Superior 
Energy Performance program.2019
31%
2016
24%
2014
19%2015
24%2017
25%2018
29%2020
27%GOAL
32%
U.N. GOAL #12 
RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION24
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTWASTE STRATEGY
The company follows the principles of 
the waste management hierarchy of 
reduce, reuse, recycle and recovery. 
The “nothing wasted” aspiration  
of the new sustainability strategy 
PLANET 2050 will challenge Cummins 
to minimize waste generation at the 
outset and more fully repurpose the 
waste that is generated through 
circular economy principles.
Reducing the company’s waste  
as business grows will require  
a cross-functional approach, 
including product design, packaging, 
manufacturing, supply chain,  
services and company-wide employee 
engagement. GOAL
95%WASTE PROGRESS
In 2020, Cummins recycled  
93% of the total waste 
it generated, the highest 
performance in company history 
but just short of its 95% goal. 
Several high-impact projects including 
co-generation and energy recovery 
for energy rich but difficult to recycle 
materials contributed to the company’s 
achievement. Cummins also continued 
work on returnable and re-useable 
packaging, which reduces commonly 
recycled materials like corrugated paper 
and wood.
That negatively impacted the recycling 
rate but moving up the waste hierarchy 
was the right thing to do. Last year,  
the company completed more than  
40 packaging projects resulting in  
the removal of 12 million pounds  
of packaging waste.Hours worked fell by 14% in 2020 due 
mostly to the pandemic, and waste 
generation was reduced by 15.8%  
or a little more than 78 million pounds. 
While there was a large reduction in 
production-related waste, there was  
also an increase in waste streams 
caused by items such as disposable 
personal protective equipment (PPE).
Following local regulations for  
the disposal of PPEs that could be 
contaminated with COVID-19 was a 
priority in 2020 and remains so in 2021. 
In most cases used PPE is sent for 
waste-to-energy pyrolysis or incineration 
to avoid the risk of contamination.  
Teams are continuing to evaluate 
acceptable recycling options. 
Waste avoidance due to employees 
working from home was also a 
contributor to the decrease in Cummins’ 
total waste, although the company did 
not track specific categories. Waste 
generated at employee homes was not 
included in the Cummins waste total. Since the company’s baseline year of 
2010, Cummins’ total disposal waste 
decreased about 43% in absolute terms 
and 61% adjusted by hours worked. 
Compared to 2019, waste generation  
fell by 15.8% in 2020 while Cummins’ 
total waste disposed decreased by 
36.3% or 15.95 million U.S. pounds 
(about 7,200 metric tons) on an  
absolute basis.
At the end of 2020, Cummins had 
35 sites achieve the company’s zero 
disposal standard, exceeding its goal 
of 30. The company has a stringent 
validation process to certify a site.  
Under Cummins’ definition of zero 
disposal, waste can only be burned  
as a last resort to create energy and  
then only if there is a net energy gain, 
creating more energy than is needed  
to sustain combustion. Each validated 
site must be re-evaluated annually to 
count toward goal achievement.WASTE GOALS
Increase company 
recycling rate to  
95% by 2020. 
Reach “zero disposal” 
status at 30 sites with  
100 or more people  
by 2020 where 100%  
of waste is reused, 
recycled or recovered  
in a useful manner.
BASELINE YEAR: 2010HAZARDOUS WASTE
Cummins is committed to avoiding the 
generation of hazardous waste and 
properly handling hazardous materials 
in the workplace, but the definition 
of what constitutes hazardous waste 
varies widely by country. 
The company follows all applicable 
local and regional regulations. For U.S. 
sites that generate hazardous waste, 
the company has a formal supplier 
pre-qualification process to ensure 
such waste is handled properly. 
2014
90%2015
90%2016
89%2017
90%2018
90%2019
91%RECYCLING  
RATE 
PROGRESS
Percentage of waste  
recycled compared to  
baseline year of 2010.2020 GOAL PROGRESS //
ZERO DISPOSAL STATUS
35 SITES2020
93%25
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTPRODUCTS IN USE PROGRESS
From optimizing products  
for specific market segments,  
to the use of sophisticated  
digital tools to assist in the  
truck specification process,  
to the ability to customize 
electronic engine settings  
and parameters, Cummins  
helps customers reduce their 
carbon footprint throughout the 
life of the company’s products.
In 2020, Cummins further improved  
its annual carbon dioxide (CO2) run  
rate reduction to 4.9 million metric  
tons. Cummins first surpassed this  
goal in 2018 and increased its  
reduction in the following years.
Global fuel economy teams have  
been building functional capability  via fuel economy forums, training and 
tools and continue to implement new 
products-in-use projects. The teams 
have completed more than 650 total 
projects since 2014, with more than  
half completed in the past two years. 
Customers are showing increasing 
interest in and dedication to improving 
their product environmental footprint, 
and Cummins is partnering to help  
them achieve their sustainability goals. 
Early goal projects resulted in greater  
fuel economy savings than projected, 
but that tapered off as the easier  
projects were completed, which  
makes surpassing the goal even  
more of an achievement.  PRODUCTS 
IN USE GOALS
Partner with customers  
to improve the efficiency 
of Cummins’ products  
in use, reaching by 2020  
an annual run-rate 
reduction of 3.5 million 
metric tons (MMT) of 
carbon dioxide (CO2).
BASELINE YEAR: 2014
PRODUCTS  
IN USE  
PROGRESS
Annual CO2 reduction  
run rate in metric ton.2019
4.6 MILLION
2016
2.9 MILLION2017
3.4 MILLION2018
4.3 MILLION
2015
1.6 MILLION
2014
0.7 MILLION2020
4.9 MILLION
2020 GOAL ACHIEVEDPRODUCTS IN USE 
STRATEGY
GHG emissions from Cummins 
products in use are the company’s 
largest environmental impact and 
represent an estimated 99% of 
Cummins’ GHG footprint due to fossil 
fuel use. The company’s biggest 
opportunity to expand product 
stewardship beyond the upfront 
design of its products is in working 
with customers to improve the 
efficiency of Cummins products in 
use and ensuring customers have the 
latest tools to improve fuel efficiency. 6.7 
BILLION
Customer savings 
in dollars from 
products in use fuel 
economy projects 
since environmental 
sustainability goals 
were established in 
2014. Projects with 
customers also saved  
2.1 billion gallons  
of fuel and avoided  
21.7 million metric  
tons of CO2.2020 GOAL PROGRESS //26
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT2020 GOAL  
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
The 2020 environmental sustainability goals  
drove many improvements over the past five  
years at Cummins. Here’s a look at some  
of the impact from the goals:
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
Cummins completed  
848 capital projects including  
121 LED lighting projects.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Cummins trained  
671 Environmental Champions  
to look for improvements  
at their particular locations.
GHG REDUCTIONS
The facility goals between 2014  
and 2020 produced GHG savings  
equivalent to removing 101,000 
cars from the road for a year.
WASTE REDUCTION
The 2020 goals reduced enough  
waste to fill 4,800 garbage trucks.
FUEL EFFICIENCY
Fuel economy projects with 
customers saved 2.1 billion  
gallons of fuel, 21.7 million 
metric tons of CO2 and  
$6.7 billion in customer costs.LOGISTICS PROGRESS
Like most global companies, 
Cummins relies on various 
modes of transportation to 
move materials and products 
between plants, warehouses and 
distributors before it ultimately 
gets to customers. The challenge 
is managing the supply chain to 
move freight fast and efficiently.
For its 2020 goal, Cummins worked 
to reduce its carbon footprint by 
measuring, benchmarking and reviewing 
the company’s freight network and 
making strategically better choices.
The true test to managing an efficient 
network is not only how it operates 
under normal, predictable, operations, 
but how it does when the supply chain 
is disrupted and volatile. Cummins was 
able to efficiently ship material even with 
the changes in the supply chain related 
to COVID-19 in 2020. As the volume of shipments declined, 
there were quick adjustments to the 
shipping modes to accommodate  
the abnormal shipping schedules  
and swings in supplier production.  
That frequently meant more carbon 
dioxide (CO2) per shipment.
Even though the company ended 2019 
with a 7% improvement against its 
10% goal, Cummins ended 2020 flat 
from its 2014 baseline year. However, 
great strides were made in managing 
the company’s logistics and Cummins 
intends on using the knowledge it 
gained working toward its 2020 goal in 
the future. Lessons that will be carried 
forward in logistics management include:
 »Shipping frequency changes to allow 
for more efficient full truckloads.
 »Intermodal shipments that enable the 
company to take advantage of the 
lower CO2 footprint of rail transport.
 »Efficient loading of material at  
shipping docks to achieve larger,  
more cost-effective shipments to 
Cummins’ plants.
 »A means to calculate, measure and 
utilize CO2 emissions data for Europe, 
Middle East and Africa shipments.LOGISTICS GOAL
Use the most efficient 
method and mode to  
move goods across  
the Cummins network  
to reduce carbon dioxide 
(CO2) per kilogram of 
goods moved by 10%  
by 2020.
BASELINE YEAR: 2014NEW EPA PROGRAM AIDS 
EFFICIENT LOGISTICS
Another positive outcome for 
Cummins from pursuing its 2020 
logistics goal was joining the U.S. 
EPA’s SmartWay program. 
SmartWay provides a comprehensive  
system for tracking, documenting and  
sharing information about fuel use and  
freight emissions across supply 
chains. It helps companies identify 
and select more efficient freight 
carriers, transport modes, equipment, 
and operational strategies to improve 
supply chain sustainability and lower 
logistics costs goods.
The program also promotes  
accelerating the use of advanced  
fuel-saving technologies.LOGISTICS STRATEGY
Cummins aims to create and maintain 
an efficient transportation network  
that reduces CO2 emissions by 
improving transportation planning  
to maximize loads, reduce miles  
when trucks are empty and  
minimize distance traveled.2020 GOAL PROGRESS //27
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2017 2018 2019 2020
Energy consumption (thousands of MMBtu)113,656 14,375 14,043 12,673
GHG emissions (thousands of metric tons CO2e)1778 808 751 656
Generated waste (thousands of metric tons) 207 227 224 189
Disposed waste (thousands of metric tons) 21 24 20 13
Recycled waste (thousands of metric tons) 186 203 204 176
Recycling rate (%) 90 90 91  93
Hazardous waste (thousands metric tons) 4 5 7 6
Water use (millions of gallons) 964 949 895 772
OHSAS 18001 / ISO 14001 / ISO 45001 certified sites2372 375 363 342
ISO 50001 certified sites 27 36 44 45
Net sales (millions U.S. dollars) 20,428 23,771 23,571 19,811
Water intensity reduction since 2010 (%) 344 50 54 53
Energy intensity reduction since 2010 (%) 3,425 29 31 27
GHG intensity reduction since 2010 (%) 3,433 37 42 41ENVIRONMENTAL  
GOALS UPDATE
Here’s a look at Cummins’ progress toward its environmental goals.
Environmental performance includes all consolidated operations and joint ventures subscribing to Cummins’ Enterprise Environmental Management System.
1 GHG emissions exclude sold electricity, mobile sources and fugitive CO2e emissions from welding and refrigerants  
2 Includes global CMI managed facilities and 50:50 JV non-managed facilities and transition from 18001 to 45001 in 2019 and 2020  
3 Intensity defined as adjusted for hours worked for energy, GHG and water 
4 Reduction includes consolidated entities only2020 GOAL 95%
2020 PROGRESS • 93.3%INCREASE FACILITY RECYCLING RATE
Environmental Icons
ENERGY
WATER
WASTEENGINE FUEL 
EFFICIENCYRAW
MATERIALS
RAW
MATERIALSLOGISTICS
COMMUNICATIONS
& MARKETINGPRODUCTS 
IN USE
SUPPLIER
ENGAGEMENTEMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT
FACILITIES &
OPERATIONS
2020 GOAL 15 SITESWATER NEUTRALITY
2020 PROGRESS 16 SITES
Environmental Icons
ENERGY
WATER
WASTEENGINE FUEL 
EFFICIENCYRAW
MATERIALS
RAW
MATERIALSLOGISTICS
COMMUNICATIONS
& MARKETINGPRODUCTS 
IN USE
SUPPLIER
ENGAGEMENTEMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT
FACILITIES &
OPERATIONS2020 GOAL 50%
2020 PROGRESS • 53%REDUCE DIRECT WATER USE INTENSITY
Environmental Icons
ENERGY
WATER
WASTEENGINE FUEL 
EFFICIENCYRAW
MATERIALS
RAW
MATERIALSLOGISTICS
COMMUNICATIONS
& MARKETINGPRODUCTS 
IN USE
SUPPLIER
ENGAGEMENTEMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT
FACILITIES &
OPERATIONS
2020 GOAL 32%
2020 PROGRESS • 27%REDUCE ENERGY USE INTENSITY IN FACILITIES
Environmental Icons
ENERGY
WATER
WASTEENGINE FUEL 
EFFICIENCYRAW
MATERIALS
RAW
MATERIALSLOGISTICS
COMMUNICATIONS
& MARKETINGPRODUCTS 
IN USE
SUPPLIER
ENGAGEMENTEMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT
FACILITIES &
OPERATIONS
GOAL 3.5 MILLION METRIC TONS (MMT)
2020 PROGRESS • 4.9 MMTREDUCE CO2 FROM PRODUCTS IN USE ANNUALLY
Environmental Icons
ENERGY
WATER
WASTEENGINE FUEL 
EFFICIENCYRAW
MATERIALS
RAW
MATERIALSLOGISTICS
COMMUNICATIONS
& MARKETINGPRODUCTS 
IN USE
SUPPLIER
ENGAGEMENTEMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT
FACILITIES &
OPERATIONS2020 GOAL 10%REDUCE CO2 PER KG OF GOODS SHIPPED
Environmental Icons
ENERGY
WATER
WASTEENGINE FUEL 
EFFICIENCYRAW
MATERIALS
RAW
MATERIALSLOGISTICS
COMMUNICATIONS
& MARKETINGPRODUCTS 
IN USE
SUPPLIER
ENGAGEMENTEMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT
FACILITIES &
OPERATIONS2020 PROGRESS • 0%2020 GOAL 30 SITESZERO DISPOSAL
2020 PROGRESS 35 SITES
Environmental Icons
ENERGY
WATER
WASTEENGINE FUEL 
EFFICIENCYRAW
MATERIALS
RAW
MATERIALSLOGISTICS
COMMUNICATIONS
& MARKETINGPRODUCTS 
IN USE
SUPPLIER
ENGAGEMENTEMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT
FACILITIES &
OPERATIONS2020 GOAL PROGRESS //28
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTSUPPORTING RENEWABLE FORMS  
OF ENERGY AROUND THE WORLD
Cummins has been committed to its 
2020 goal of increasing the company’s 
use of renewable energy, making 
significant progress with both  
solar and wind energy.The company has now implemented  
45 onsite solar photovoltaic projects  
in 11 countries, with a peak capacity  
of 29 megawatts, which are today 
generating about 5% of the company’s 
global electricity needs. 
The company’s solar installations extend 
around the world, including Australia, 
Belgium, China, India, Mexico, Nigeria, 
South Africa, the United States, the 
United Kingdom and Zambia. There are  
16 Cummins sites in India, alone,  
with solar installations.
In China, the Beijing Foton Cummins 
Engine Company in 2019 expanded 
the largest solar array in the company, 
adding panels to a second building  
that, thanks to technology advances, 
can produce nearly as much power  
as the original 650,000 square foot  
array built in 2016. Cummins policy has been to install solar 
power where it makes the most sense 
both economically and from a power 
perspective. For example, it would not 
make sense to install a solar array in 
a location that receives a significant 
amount of cloud cover each year.
THE POWER OF WIND
The company’s use of wind power has 
been more limited in number but more 
significant from a power perspective.  
In 2018, Cummins entered into a virtual 
power purchase agreement (VPPA) as 
part of an expansion of the Meadow 
Lake Wind Farm in northwest Indiana.
Since it went online in mid-December 
2018 to the end of 2019, the share of 
the expansion Cummins supported sent 
enough renewable energy to the grid 
to offset all of the electricity from more 
traditional sources used by Cummins’ 
facilities across the company’s 
headquarters state of Indiana in the 
United States. The VPPA also provided the anticipated hedge effect against 
energy prices.
LEADERSHIP RECOGNITION
Cummins’ use and promotion of 
renewable energy qualified the  
company to join an elite group of 
U.S. firms in the EPA’s Green Power 
Partnership. The partnership requires  
a minimum use of renewable power  
for large companies of 7% of their  
total U.S. electricity consumption. 
The partnership’s national Top 100 list 
positioned Cummins among the top 
industrial partners in the program.  
The company ranked No. 53 on the  
Top 100 list and No. 24 among  
partners in the Fortune 500. 
The Top 100 members had a combined 
usage of more than 58 billion kilowatt-
hours (kWh) annually. Advocates say 
the Top 100 is playing a critical role to 
creating markets for wind, solar, hydrogen 
and other forms of renewable power.
The solar installation at the Cummins campus 
in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, in 2020 is merely 
one of many solar energy arrays at Cummins 
facilities. A map on page 29 includes all of the 
company’s solar facilities around the world.CUMMINS AND RENEWABLES //
U.N. GOAL #7 
AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY29
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT1 WIND ENERGY SITE
35 ZERO DISPOSAL SITES
16 WATER NEUTRAL SITES
45 SITES WITH SOLAR INSTALLATIONSMAKING THE WORLD 
A BETTER PLACE
As part of Cummins’ environmental goals, the company has been working to make  
a difference on the environment around the world by increasing and promoting the  
use of renewable energy, reducing waste and adopting sustainable water practices. 
Here’s a look at the locations of the company’s renewable energy projects,  
as well as its facilities that have achieved Cummins’ standards for zero  
disposal and water neutrality.
AUSTRALIAENVIRONMENTAL SITE MAP //
ZAMBIANIGERIA
PERUMEXICOUNITED STATESCANADAUNITED KINGDOM
SOUTH AFRICAGERMANYBELGIUM
INDIACHINA
SINGAPORE30
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTADVOCACY, PARTNERSHIPS 
CRITICAL TO CUMMINS PROGRESS
Policy advocacy and partnerships play key roles in the 
company’s environmental strategy and compliance.
By advocating for tough, clear and 
enforceable regulations, and partnering 
with others to develop the technologies 
to meet them, Cummins is able to 
achieve four strategic goals:
 »Responsible regulations
 »A balanced, global  
regulatory approach
 »Incentives to accelerate progress
 »Technology development
Cummins believes strongly in the 
technical skills of its workforce to 
compete and win when everyone must 
meet the same standards.
ADVOCATES FOR PROGRESS
Emissions regulations are expected 
to continue tightening globally with 
a growing focus on greenhouse gas 
(GHG) standards. Over the next five 
years, Brazil, China, India, Mexico and 
other countries are expected to adopt the low emissions levels contained in 
the Euro VI and U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) 2010 emissions 
regulations for on-highway products. 
Meanwhile, Phase 2 of the U.S. GHG-
fuel efficiency regulations passed in 2016 
includes separate engine standards. 
Cummins continues to support this 
approach and is on track to comply 
with the first step in 2021. The company 
also continues working to lower levels 
of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate 
matter (PM) in its product emissions both 
in the U.S. and globally.
Cummins is committed to working with 
the U.S. EPA, the California Air Resources 
Board, China’s Ministry of Environment and 
Ecology and the European Commission 
as they develop new regulations to reduce 
NOx emissions for on-highway engines, 
which is consistent with the company’s 
principle to advocate for tough, clear,  
and enforceable standards. Looking forward, Cummins is 
considering future regulations in the 
context of a path to zero emissions in 
how the company transitions to new 
technologies such as battery electric, 
fuel cell electric, hybrid electric, and 
range-extended electric vehicles. 
COMPLIANCE TRACKING
Keeping track of global standards is 
no small task. In 2020, the company 
certified or maintained more than  
125 engine configurations with 
approximately 17 governing agencies 
around the world. These certifications 
represented at least 34 different 
emissions standards for diesel and 
natural gas products for on-highway,  
off-highway, marine and rail applications.
In 2019, Cummins created a Product 
Compliance and Regulatory Affairs 
(PCRA) function to strengthen its 
collaboration with agencies setting 
emissions regulations and certification 
processes. The group functions 
independently from, and provides 
oversight to, product development teams and business segments at 
Cummins, reporting directly to the CEO.
Since its formation, PCRA has focused 
on developing capable people, 
processes, and tools through training 
development, process improvement, 
and operations excellence in regulatory 
affairs and technical certification and 
compliance activities. 
PARTNERING FOR INNOVATION
The company is a member of many 
organizations promoting sustainability  
and low-carbon technology. They 
include the global Hydrogen Council, 
the U.S. Fuel Cell Hydrogen Energy 
Association, the California Hydrogen 
Business Council, the CA Fuel Cell 
Partnership, Hydrogen Europe  
and Hydrogen Forward. CEO Tom 
Linebarger sits on the board of the 
Hydrogen Council.
Cummins also participates in the U.S. 
EPA’s Green Power Partnership and the 
Renewable Energy Buyer’s Association  
to promote the use of low carbon power 
sources such as wind and solar.
In addition, the company is partnering 
with groups to improve more traditional 
technology, such as the Diesel 
Technology Forum, which raises 
awareness about the importance  of clean diesel. The Health Effects 
Institute was founded by the U.S. 
EPA and industry leaders, including 
Cummins, to provide impartial, high 
quality, scientific findings on air 
pollution. And Cummins belongs to 
the International Council on Clean 
Transportation (ICCT), whose mission 
is to improve the environmental 
performance of road, marine and air 
transportation to benefit public health 
and mitigate climate change. In 2020, 
Cummins produced 33,000 soot-free 
engines as part of a key ICCT initiative.
Finally, the company is partnering with 
groups concerned about sustainability 
more generally such as BSR, which 
works with members to develop 
sustainable business strategies through 
research and cross-sector collaboration. 
In 2021, the company also joined the 
CEO Climate Dialogue, a coalition of 
leading companies and environmental 
groups advocating for action by the  
U.S. Congress on climate issues. PARTNERSHIPS // 
  MORE PARTNERSHIPS  
Cummins also partners with other 
companies and government agencies 
to achieve innovation. Check out the 
chart in the Innovation section.31
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
Social issues ranging from  
community engagement to the  
health and safety of employees  
are key to Cummins’ sustainability.SOCIAL
WHAT’S INSIDE:
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT .............................................. 32
HEALTH AND SAFETY .......................................................... 37
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION ................................ 40
WORKFORCE ........................................................................ 4332
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTBUILDING MORE PROSPEROUS COMMUNITIES
Cummins employees are deeply committed  
to the prosperity of the cities, towns and  
villages where they live and work.
Around the world, employees identify 
local community needs and volunteer 
in teams to meet those needs. Their 
community involvement is supported  
by a company with a deeply-rooted 
history of community problem solving.
Each Cummins Chief Executive Officer, 
dating back to the 1950s and earlier, 
has made a personal commitment to 
corporate responsibility and the idea  
that a company is only as strong as  
the communities where it does business. 
Employees have significant flexibility to 
craft community solutions in partnership 
with an array of non-profits they select, 
and projects they fund with Cummins 
Community Development grants.
While the pandemic had a significant 
impact in 2020, it did not stop the 
company from carrying on this  
important company priority.$22 
MILLION 
Record amount of  
Cummins grants made  
to communities in 2020.
1.4 MILLION 
People served in 2020 by Cummins  
community engagement programs.
17 MILLION  
Women and girls around the world impacted 
by gender equality law and policy changes 
resulting from Cummins Powers Women  
since it was launched in 2018.
1,700
Students graduating from Cummins  
TEC: Technical Education for Communities 
since it was launched in 2012.DOING OUR PART  
AROUND THE WORLD
Cummins employees  
offered a helping hand  
to make a difference  
during the pandemic.
 
 
 
UNITED KINGDOM  
Stephen Layton, a Cummins 
telecommunications manager  
in the United Kingdom, used  
skills learned in a previous job to  
volunteer testing essential medical  
gases in emergency care centers.
CHINA  
Cummins employees in Wuxi,  
China, helped a local school  
serving migrant students clean  
before students returned after  
a pandemic shutdown.
UNITED STATES  
Cummins employee Stephen  
Aryee used his analytical skills  
to develop modeling to help an  
Indiana (U.S.) hospital predict  
peaks in COVID-19 admissions.PRIORITY AREAS
Cummins focuses the company’s  
employee engagement efforts  
on three global priority areas  
critical to healthy communities:
EDUCATION 
Improving the quality and alignment  
of educational systems to ensure  
the students of today are ready  
for the workforce of tomorrow.
ENVIRONMENT 
Ensuring everything Cummins  
does leads to a cleaner, healthier  
and safer environment.
EQUALITY OF 
OPPORTUNITY
Increasing opportunity and  
equity for those most in need.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT // 
  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  33
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTGRANT MAKING
The strength and reach of Cummins’ employee- 
led community problem-solving and volunteerism 
were evident when COVID-19 struck in early 2020. 
With deep knowledge and strong connections to 
local community partners able to respond quickly  
to emergency needs, employees generated  
more than $2.7 million in emergency grants 
addressing the three most prevalent global  
needs: emergency food relief, childcare support  
and remote learning assistance. 
Global community giving in 2020 totaled  
$22 million, a new record for the company  
and a 7% increase from 2019. More than  
300 grants were led by employees to support  
the nonprofit partners with which they volunteer. 
Here’s a look at 2020 grant making by priority area:COMMUNITY  
IMPACT AND GIVING
Cummins is a data-driven company in everything 
it does, including the impact of its community 
engagement programs. The COVID-19 pandemic 
impacted the company’s efforts, but much was 
accomplished in 2020.ENGAGEMENT
One of Cummins’ chief metrics for community 
engagement is employee participation in  
Cummins’ Every Employee Every Community  
(EEEC) program. It enables employees to use 
at least four work hours to engage in their 
communities. Due to the pandemic, in-person 
volunteerism was severely limited for most of  
2020. Despite this, Cummins employees rose  
to the challenge, identifying unique and innovative 
ways to volunteer virtually in their communities.  
In all, more than 23,000 employees (35%) 
participated in the EEEC program by volunteering 
with more than 1,300 nonprofits around the world.
35%
82%
82%
82%
80%
73%83%2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
201414% EDUCATION
10% ENVIRONMENT
12% OTHER64% EQUALITY OF  
 OPPORTUNITYIMPACT
As anticipated, 2020 impact numbers were 
dramatically lower due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
In-person volunteerism was severely limited due to 
safety concerns. Also, reporting was not required  
for pandemic-related grants to allow nonprofits  
to respond quickly to critical needs.
1.4 MILLION PEOPLE SERVED
4.3 MILLION6.5 MILLION2020
2019
2018
3,428
2,4732020
2019
2018
7.2 MILLION kL
12 MILLION kL2020
2019
2018GOAL ALIGNMENT
Cummins’ community engagement initiatives align with these U.N. Sustainable Development Goals:
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT // 
7.1 MILLION kL   WATER CONSERVED3,270 JOBS SECURED
U.N. GOAL #4 
QUALITY EDUCATION
2020 GRANT 
MAKING34
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTPercent of employers 
who would recommend 
the hiring of TEC 
graduates to others.98
TAKING ON SOCIETY’S  
BIGGEST CHALLENGES
To build on the success of the company’s  
employee-led community work and to create  
more impact in its communities, Cummins has  
developed two strategic community initiatives  
to address large, global community problems  
the company has a unique ability to help solve. 
The first such initiative was launched in  
2012 called Cummins TEC: Technical 
Education for Communities. Cummins 
TEC seeks to transform lives through 
technical vocational education by training 
disadvantaged youth in employable skills  
to gain good jobs. Good jobs are paths  
into the economy that affect not just the 
person employed, but entire families. 
Partnering with local vocational schools, 
Cummins TEC improves curriculum,  
provides training equipment, trains  
teachers and students in technical and  
soft skills, and finds local employers to 
provide internships and jobs to students. Today, the program has 24 vocational  
school programs in 14 countries.
In total, more than 1,700 students have 
graduated from the program, 80% of whom 
secure good jobs with wages far exceeding 
the average living wage in most TEC school 
countries. Employers rate the skills of 
Cummins TEC graduates very favorably.
In 2020, COVID-19 related school closings 
and virtual learning temporarily reduced class 
sizes and graduations. Despite the diminished 
enrollment, the program exceeded its original 
2020 goal to increase female enrollment by 
10% by achieving 19.7% female enrollment.Layne Li, Technical Training 
Specialist at Cummins Beijing, helps 
deliver Cummins-specific technical 
training content to Cummins TEC 
students studying from home.COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT // 
367 Cummins TEC: 
Technical Education  
for Communities 
graduates in 2020.
Percent of employers 
who say TEC graduates 
exceed their business 
expectations.14Countries  
with Cummins 
TEC programs.
92TWENTY-FOUR
Locations with Cummins TEC:  
Technical Education for Communities 
vocational programs.  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  
U.N. GOAL #1 
NO POVERTY35
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTFIFTY
Cummins leaders and their teams  
engaged with Cummins Powers  
Women nonprofit partners.
1,363
Employees serving as Cummins Powers 
Women ambassadors, committing to learn 
and volunteer in support of gender equality.  
They represent 40 different countries  
around the world.
3,113
Hours volunteered by  
Cummins employees with 
the eight global nonprofit 
partners in Cummins  
Powers Women.
$20 MILLION 
Cummins commitment in Cummins Powers 
Women since the program launched in 2018.WORKING FOR GENDER EQUITY  
AROUND THE WORLD
Cummins TEC was followed 
in 2018 by Cummins Powers 
Women, a $20 million global 
community program to advance 
equity for women and girls.
This community work augments the 
company’s internal diversity efforts.  
The program partners with eight  
global nonprofits to accelerate gender 
equality in educational attainment, 
economic empowerment, personal 
safety and legal rights. 
In three years, Cummins Powers  
Women has enabled equal rights  
and opportunity for more than  
260,000 women and girls in  
18 countries and funded 99 advocacy 
grants resulting in 14 gender equality 
law and policy changes that positively 
impacted the lives of 17 million  
women and girls in the company’s  
global communities.
Salvador Diliz (speaking), General Manager Cummins Colombia, and Eliana Scarpatti (right, 
striped shirt), Health, Safety, Environment and Quality leader, meet with domestic workers prior 
to the pandemic as part of Cummins Powers Women nonprofit partner CARE’s initiative to raise 
awareness of domestic workers’ rights. This project developed a smart phone application to better 
inform domestic workers of their rights and provide access for them to critical support services. 
(Photo taken prior to emergency protocols implemented to address the pandemic.)CUMMINS POWERS  
WOMEN PARTNERS
The company’s most ambitious 
community initiative ever is  
partnering with a network of  
expert nonprofit organizations  
around the world, including:
 »Girls Inc.
 »Rosa Fund
 »China Women’s  
Development Foundation
 »Rise Up
 »Camfed (the Campaign  
for Female Education)
 »CARE Australia
 »CARE Latin America
 »Promundo
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT // 
  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  
  TO LEARN MORE  
Want to learn more about the  
Cummins Powers Women program? 
You can watch a video on the 
initiative to expand gender equity 
around the world or check out the 
program’s website.
U.N. GOAL #5 
GENDER EQUALITY36
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTNEW INITIATIVES ADDRESS  
SYSTEMIC RACISM, THE ENVIRONMENT
In 2020, Cummins introduced CARE: Cummins 
Advocating for Racial Equity, a U.S. strategic  
community initiative focused on dismantling 
institutional racism and creating systemic equity. 
The initiative will invest in and advocate for evidence-based programs and  
practices focused on building more equitable and inclusive communities.  
Cummins is engaging in four critical areas:
 »POLICE REFORM  
Supporting initiatives that enhance transparency  
and accountability in police governance.  
 »CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM  
Developing advocacy positions on juvenile justice,  
bail reform, parole and probation policies, as well as  
post-system inequalities and re-entry back into society.
 »SOCIAL JUSTICE REFORM  
Focusing on sustainable revitalization of historically  
Black communities.
 »ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT  
Narrowing the economic disparity of Black Americans  
through dedicated investing in Black-owned businesses.  The program will span across more 
than 30 cities — nine where Cummins 
has its largest sites and 25 locations 
in the company’s distribution business 
network. Additionally, CARE will link to 
the Cummins TEC: Technical Education  
for Communities vocational program.
The Cummins TEC team is exploring 
expanding the program into schools 
in Memphis and Nashville, Tennessee, 
among other locations. Cummins TEC 
will augment existing curriculum to 
include technical and soft skills training, 
teacher training, career guidance and 
workplace learning.
Expanding Cummins TEC into these  
locations aims to improve pathways for  
Black youth into prosperous careers.  
The goal is to strengthen programs 
available for people of color and 
to provide skills to compete in the 
workforce. The selected educational 
programs are aligned to meet  
the needs of regional labor markets.
CARE quickly went into action in other  
ways as well after the program’s launch in October 2020. For example, in the city 
of Indianapolis in Cummins’ headquarters 
state of Indiana, the company joined 
forces with other companies and civic 
organizations to successfully advocate 
for the establishment of a first-of-its-kind 
majority civilian General Orders Board. 
The board has the power to create 
policies and procedures that determine 
the manner in which policing is 
conducted in Indianapolis. Other groups 
participating in the coalition advocating 
for a citizen majority included Eli Lilly  
and Company, Roche Diagnostics,  
the Indianapolis Urban League, and the 
Indianapolis chapter of the American 
Civil Liberties Union.
In another partnership with Eli Lilly,  
Cummins also committed $250,000  
towards an Indianapolis Urban League 
initiative to invest in Black-owned  
business and entrepreneurship.
Cummins is committed to the kind  
of long-term approach necessary to  
effectively address issues like institutional 
racism and systemic inequities.
STRENGTHENING 
COMMUNITIES THROUGH 
SUSTAINABLE WATER
Cummins will soon be investing in another  
global program to address one of the most  
urgent environmental issues facing communities 
around the world: water stress.
The company worked throughout 2020 on  
a water initiative, which has not yet been  
officially launched, that seeks to achieve:
 »A net positive water impact in every  
Cummins region by 2030.
 »A net positive water impact in every  
Cummins community by 2050.
As with the company’s other strategic programs, 
Cummins has a unique ability to make a difference 
for water-stressed communities. In countries 
such as India, Mexico and China, the company’s 
employees have been involved in water projects for 
many years, developing knowledge and capability.
Already, Cummins’ water conservation efforts 
globally have generated more than 4 billion gallons 
in annual water benefits to communities around 
the world. This program will link to PLANET 2050, 
Cummins’ sustainability strategy, and help ensure 
needed water for future operations. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT // 
U.N. GOAL #8 
DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH37
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTKEY HEALTH AND 
SAFETY METRICS 
IMPROVE IN A MOST 
UNUSUAL YEAR  
Despite the pandemic, Cummins recorded 
improvements in many of its traditional health  
and safety metrics in 2020 — including the  
lowest Incidence Rate in company history.
The rate of recordable injuries fell from 0.593 in 2019 to an Incidence Rate  
record of 0.482 in 2020, a 19% improvement. Other improving metrics included:
 »A 7.6% IMPROVEMENT IN THE SEVERITY CASE RATE, the rate of lost  
or restricted workdays, from 0.225 in 2019 to 0.209 in 2020.  
The improvement followed a 15% reduction in 2019 compared to 2018.
 »An 18.5% IMPROVEMENT IN THE MAJOR INJURIES RATE  
from 0.0497 in 2019 to 0.0405 in 2020.
 »A 25% IMPROVEMENT IN THE HAND SAFETY INCIDENCE RATE.  
Hand injuries are the most frequent type of injury at the company.
 »A 7% IMPROVEMENT IN THE ERGONOMICS INCIDENCE RATE, the rate of ergonomic  
injuries. Ergonomic injuries are the second leading type of injury at Cummins.
Most importantly, Cummins had no employee fatalities for a fourth consecutive year. HEALTH AND SAFETY // 
Cummins Global Health and Safety  
played a key role in the collaborative 
effort to keep essential workers safe by 
implementing mask requirements and 
other steps. Learn more on page 63.38
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT19
Percentage point  
improvement in Cummins’ 
Incidence Rate in 2020  
compared to 2019.
0.0405
Major Injury Rate in 2020,   
an 18.5% improvement over 2019
149
Projects submitted globally in  
Cummins’ 2020 Ergo Cup competition.Percentage point 
improvement in  
hand injuries in 2020,  
the leading source of 
injuries at Cummins.25A CLOSER LOOK AT 2020
For the past decade, the company  
has been on a journey to become  
world class in health and safety. 
Cummins’ Global Health and Safety 
team has worked to strengthen a  
culture where employees are fully 
engaged and committed to making 
Cummins a healthier and safer place 
to work. Since 2010, the company’s 
Incidence and Severity Case rates  
have been significantly below 
comparable industries.
Cummins offers risk-based hazard 
prevention and control tools in  
numerous areas, ranging from driver 
safety, hand safety, and lockout/ 
tag-out procedures, to machine  
guarding and working safely at heights.While the absence of employees  
at some facilities because of the 
pandemic undoubtedly played a  
role in the 2020 metrics, it worked  
both for and against the company.
For example, the Severity Lost Workday 
Rate, the rate of lost or restricted 
workdays, increased 22% compared to 
2019. This was due to a 6% increase 
in lost workdays and a 14% reduction 
in work hours in 2020. It was frequently 
more difficult to schedule treatment  
for many employees in 2020 because 
of the burdens placed on the health 
care system by COVID-19. In addition, 
access to care was sometimes limited by 
efforts to reduce the spread of the virus.
The Contractor Safety Incidence Rate 
is another opportunity for improvement. 
The 2020 rate increased by 21% 
compared to 2019. The same number  
of injuries occurred in both years, but 
there were fewer hours worked in 2020.
 In the first quarter of 2021, Global  
Health and Safety started a monthly  
data collection process designed  
to help distinguish the safety 
performance of general contractors, 
third-party services and third-party 
logistics partners so the company  
can better understand the issues  
behind the rate increase and  
implement solutions. 
LOOKING AHEAD
Work on the contractor safety issue  
was one of several longer-term  
health and safety initiatives the  
company worked on in 2020.
The function, for example, also 
continued planning a Serious Injury 
and Fatality (SIF) Prevention Program. 
Identified through the company’s 
benchmarking efforts with other 
companies, SIF is designed to better 
enable Cummins to focus on high- 
risk situations with the most potential  
for serious injury. SIF will replace  the Major Injury reporting process,  
with implementation in 2021.
Global Health and Safety also  
continued the transition to ISO  
45001, the international health  
and safety standard, with the  
goal of completing that work by  
the end of 2021. The function 
also worked to upgrade its talent 
development efforts, mindful that  
the pandemic demonstrated  
recruiting and retaining the best 
employees in health and safety  
is more important than ever.
While it was a successful and  
productive year by almost any  
measure for the Global Health and 
Safety, the pandemic was another 
reminder that protecting Cummins 
employees is a job never truly  
finished. More can always be done.TEN 
MILLION 
Masks produced for 
employees at three 
Cummins locations in 
2020 to guard against 
the spread of COVID-19.  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  HEALTH AND SAFETY // 39
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTEVERYONE WINS IN ERGO CUP
The Global Health and Safety function held 
another successful Ergo Cup competition  
in 2020, with employees submitting  
149 projects from 68 sites across the globe.
The projects delivered not just ergonomic improvements —  
ergonomic injuries are the second leading cause of injuries at  
Cummins — but frequently there were productivity and efficiency savings, 
too. The projects in the 2020 competition had an estimated $3.6 million  
in productivity/efficiency savings and $11.6 million in cost avoidance.
Several projects leveraged new technology such as collaborative robots 
(frequently known as cobots), while others highlighted tools designed in 
house and integrated with proven technology to maximize design and 
application. Two winners emerged from the 2020 competition:
 »The Global winner was a Distribution Business team working in the  
South Pacific, which improved the way cylinder heads are lifted,  
positioned, removed and installed underneath trains, significantly  
reducing the ergonomic risk of injury. 
 »The Judges Choice winner was a mobile robot material handling  
system devised by a team at the Fuel Systems Plant in Juarez,  
Mexico, that eliminated the opportunity for employees to be injured  
while moving materials manually. The system also eliminated  
bottlenecks at the plant, increasing efficiency.HOW CUMMINS COMPARES
Here’s Cummins’ Incidence Rate  
compared to other industries.SAFETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Here’s a look at key trends in safety at Cummins.
NOTE: The company’s Incidence Rate, also known as the average injury / illness  
rate is the relative number of recordable injuries and illnesses per 100 employees.  
The Severity Case Rate is the rate of lost or restricted work days. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020Incidence Rate Indicator
0.00.20.40.60.8INCIDENCE RATE
 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020Severity Case Rate
0.00.10.20.3SEVERITY CASE RATECUMMINSUS MOTOR & GENERATOR MFG
US MOTOR VEHICLE MFG
0.640.59
2.32.3
2.16.36.2
6.420182019
2017
2016
20150.69
3.2
3.1
2.9
3.0
3.8
3.96.5
6.6
6.9
7.1
7.4
7.50.63
0.59
2014
2013
2012
20110.61
0.65
0.69
0.78HEALTH AND SAFETY // 40
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTDRIVING THE VALUE 
OF DIVERSITY
Cummins believes the company is  
at its best when existing and serving 
within a world, a workplace, and  
team where all people are embraced  
for who they are and what they  
aspire to achieve.And, as a global company, Cummins 
recognizes it must continue its efforts  
to make lives better and power a more 
prosperous world. It is from this vantage  
point that Cummins has embarked on  
a journey, an extension of its legacy,  
to be a highly diverse and inclusive 
company that ensures equitable 
opportunity for employees and  
other key stakeholders.  
A WINNING STRATEGY
Cummins’ drive to be a leader in 
business as well as a contributor to 
viable, healthy communities is evidenced 
by the company’s Global Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) Strategy.  
The strategy brings to life one of the five 
company values: diversity and inclusion. 
It informs the way Cummins will conduct 
itself in a world where unjust systems 
and discriminatory behavior continue 
to oppress and disenfranchise people 
based on the color of their skin, their 
gender, their ability and their differences.
The strategy prioritizes seven focus 
areas and outlines specific actions for 
each that, taken together, drive systemic 
change in the company’s culture and 
operations and enable a diverse, 
equitable and inclusive environment 
wherever Cummins does business.This strategy facilitates Cummins’ ability 
to leverage a diverse workforce that 
reflects the communities in which the 
company operates, to innovate and  
win in the global marketplace, and to 
create sustainable success within and 
beyond Cummins’ walls. Importantly,  
it was established to allow the company 
to adjust and prioritize employee  
concerns in the face of events like  
those occurring in 2020 — a pandemic, 
racial unrest, heightened economic 
inequities and more.  
The global strategy includes unique 
initiatives aimed at improving the 
representation and inclusion of specific 
under-represented and marginalized 
groups. Particularly, Cummins’ U.S. 
Diversity Initiative, for example, has 
increased representation of Black and 
Latinx employees at leadership levels 
in the United States and launched 
programs and resources focused on the 
needs of under-represented employees. 
Cummins’ Global Disability Inclusion 
Initiative has also helped to improve 
processes, facilities and technology 
to reflect a more inclusive work 
environment, earning Cummins 
recognition as a “Best Place to Work 
for Disability Inclusion” in the 2020 
Disability:IN Disability Equality Index.DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION // 
Cummins believes  
diversity, equity and  
inclusion helps ensure  
the best ideas come  
to light to support the 
company’s customers.$13 BILLION+
Global spending with 
suppliers who self-identify 
as diverse in their region  
of the world since 2010.  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  
Percentage of women 
employees on the 
Cummins Executive 
Team, one of three  
top leadership groups, 
as of Dec. 31, 2020.5527
11.738.5Percentage of Cummins 
workforce made up  
of women as of  
Dec. 31, 2020.
Percentage of Black 
employees in Cummins’ 
U.S. workforce as of 
Dec. 31, 2020.Percentage of company  
vice presidents and  
above who are women  
as of Dec. 31, 2020.41
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTA HISTORY OF COMMITMENT
Additional initiatives underway focus  
on gender and military service globally.  
The Global Inclusion Leadership Council 
of Cummins’ Employee Resource 
Groups has organized worldwide efforts  
around gender, multicultural, sexual 
orientation/gender identity, age,  
disability and military service.  
A company’s commitment to diversity, 
equity and inclusion is most credible 
when supported by transparent  
reporting of progress. Cummins  
has a longstanding commitment to 
progress in this area, and the company’s 
reporting of data on the representation  
of various employees in this 
Sustainability Progress Report is  
further proof of that commitment.  
Cummins recognizes the need to 
increase diversity at all levels, ensure 
the most welcoming and inclusive 
environment possible, and offer 
opportunities for growth on an equitable 
basis. The Global Diversity, Equity & 
Inclusion Strategy will drive plans to 
improve in these critical areas.  From experience, the company knows 
that improvement in DE&I will help 
attract, retain, develop and advance  
all people across the organization. 
Cummins refines its practices and 
policies on an ongoing basis to increase 
equity in the talent process and mitigate 
potential bias in any form it takes. KEY STRATEGY ELEMENTS
Cummins’ Global Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) Strategy is  
centered on enabling a diverse, equitable and inclusive environment.  
Here’s a look at some key elements: 
 »LEADERSHIP ACCOUNTABILITY:  
Leaders demonstrate individual and collective 
leadership accountability for enabling a diverse, 
equitable and inclusive culture. 
 »RECRUITMENT, RETENTION,  
DEVELOPMENT AND ADVANCEMENT:  
Cummins’ talent development processes  
deliver equitable and accessible recruitment, 
retention, advancement, and a pervasive  
feeling of inclusion. 
 »BENEFITS, WORK ARRANGEMENTS  
AND COMPENSATION:  
Benefits, work arrangements and compensation 
systems are equitable and optimize employee  
well-being, potential and performance.  »LEARNING AND EDUCATION:  
DE&I skills and competence are enabled  
in company leaders and employees  
through education and development. 
 »COMMUNITY, GOVERNMENT  
AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:  
Cummins will take a leading role within local 
communities and society at large to dismantle 
systemic inequities and advance justice for all. 
 »ASSESSMENT, MEASUREMENT  
AND RESEARCH:  
Comprehensive assessment, measurement,  
and research guides DE&I actions and  
performance is shared with all stakeholders. 
 »COMMUNICATIONS:  
DE&I communications are a powerful and  
pervasive force in achieving a more inclusive, 
equitable and prosperous workplace and world. CUMMINS’  
CARE INITIATIVE
The company’s approach 
to diversity, equity and 
inclusion can be seen in 
Cummins Advocating for 
Racial Equity (CARE),  
a new initiative to help 
dismantle institutional 
racism in the U.S.
The initiative, launched in  
2020, focuses on police reform, 
criminal justice reform, social 
justice reform and economic 
empowerment. Learn more 
about CARE in the Community 
Engagement section.DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION // 42
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT8.03%SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
For more than 40 years, Cummins’  
supplier diversity program has spread 
economic development to communities 
through the engagement of diverse  
suppliers in the United States and globally.
The impact of the company’s program  
goes beyond its immediate suppliers. 
Cummins’ diverse suppliers, and the 
employees they hire, engage other 
suppliers in their supply chain and in their 
communities. This engagement creates  
a multiplier effect of Cummins’ spending  
with diverse suppliers.
Cummins’ global spending with diverse 
suppliers as a percentage of revenue  
has doubled since 2010.
DIVERSE SUPPLIER SPENDING  
AS A PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE
246810
 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 20202020 CUMMINS U.S. DIVERSITY 
In 2020, Cummins pledged to be a leader in addressing racial equity in and out of the company. This chart looks at Cummins’ U.S.  
workforce based on self-identification (as of Dec. 31, 2020), as the company works toward improving diversity.
ASIAN BLACK LATINX /  
HISPANIC WHITE OTHER TWO OR  
MORE RACES DECLINED  
TO ANSWER 
ALL EMPLOYEES 11.8% 11.7% 7% 67.5% 0.6% 1.3% 0.1% 
   Hourly 2.4% 16% 7% 72% 0.7% 1.6% 0.3% 
   Salaried / exempt 23% 6.5% 7% 62% 0.36% 1.1% 0.04% 
  
LEADERSHIP 12.7% 5.8% 5.8% 74.3% 0.6% 0.8% 0% 
   Directors and Executive Directors 13% 5.6% 6% 74% 0.6% 0.8% 0% 
   Vice President and above (officers) 7% 12% 2.4% 78.6% 0% 0% 0% 
2020 CUMMINS GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY GENDER 
Cummins has also been making steady progress on increasing the number of women in the company’s workforce, believing women are under-
represented and contribute significantly to diversity at Cummins. This chart looks at the company’s global workforce by gender as of Dec. 31, 2020.
MEN WOMEN 
ALL EMPLOYEES 72.6% 27.4% 
   Hourly 73.7% 26.3% 
   Salaried/Exempt 71% 29% MEN WOMEN 
LEADERSHIP 75% 25% 
   Directors and Executive Directors 75.2% 24.8% 
   Vice President and above (officers) 61.5% 38.5% TOP LEADERSHIP 
BY GENDER
As Cummins works to attract more  
women to the company, it is putting  
a special effort in its leadership ranks.  
Here’s a look at the gender breakdown  
of the company’s top executive teams  
and the Cummins Board of Directors  
as of Dec. 31, 2020.
0 25 50 75 100CUMMINS EXECUTIVE TEAM
WOMEN 55%
MEN 45%
0 25 50 75 100WOMEN 38.5%
MEN 61.5%CUMMINS OPERATING TEAM
0 25 50 75 100WOMEN 33.3%
MEN 66.7%BOARD OF DIRECTORS0 25 50 75 100CUMMINS LEADERSHIP TEAM
WOMEN 44.4%
MEN 55.6%
8.8%
4.12%7.76%
5.45%8.65%DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION // 43
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT57,825
Cummins employees 
worldwide as of  
Dec. 31, 2020.
20,279
Cummins employees worldwide represented 
by various unions under collective bargaining 
agreements expiring between 2021 and 2025.
$15
Living wage calculated in 2019 for Cummins 
employees living in the United States, although 
most positions at the company pay more.
54%
Cummins employees  
age 39 or younger in 2020.  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  HELPING EMPLOYEES 
REACH THEIR  
FULL POTENTIAL
Cummins is committed to inspiring and 
encouraging all employees to reach their full 
potential. The company believes its employees  
are the strength of Cummins’ business and drive  
its ability to serve the company’s customers. 
Cummins pursues that commitment by 
creating a diverse and inclusive work 
environment; engaging employees and 
their families in improving wellness; 
developing self-aware and effective 
leaders and extending the company’s 
talent management philosophies 
in performance management, 
compensation management, competency 
building and access to development 
opportunities for all employees.TALENT MANAGEMENT
Cummins strives to create a leadership 
culture that begins with authentic leaders 
who create an outstanding place to 
work by encouraging all employees to 
achieve their full potential. Leaders are 
encouraged to connect their people and 
their work to the company’s mission, 
vision, values, brand promise and 
strategies, motivating and giving  
them a higher sense of purpose.
The company has developed leadership 
and employee development programs 
for employees from the manufacturing 
floor and technicians through 
middle management and executive 
development. When an individual joins 
Cummins, the company is committed to 
providing both that employee and their 
manager with the tools and resources 
they need to manage their career and 
navigate in a large global organization. 
Through Cummins’ Talent Management 
strategy, the company’s goal is to 
ensure all employees have access to the 
development and career opportunities that 
a global company enables. Employees get 
the training, development and feedback 
they need to build a career at Cummins, 
not just a stop along the way.COMPENSATION
To attract and retain the best employees, 
Cummins’ focuses on providing 
competitive pay and benefits. The 
company’s programs target the market 
for competitiveness and sustainability 
while honoring Cummins’ core values. 
The company provides benefit programs 
with the goal of improving the physical, 
mental and financial wellness of its 
employees throughout their lifetime. 
Some examples include base and 
variable pay, medical, paid time off, 
retirement saving plans and employee 
stock purchase plans.
When designing base pay compensation 
ranges, Cummins does a market 
analysis to be sure ranges are current 
and employees are advancing their 
earning potential. The company also 
does annual compensation studies to 
assess market movement, pay equity 
and living wages. For example, in 2018, 
Cummins conducted a living wage 
analysis globally to ensure employees 
were making a living wage in the 
countries where they live and work.
The company incorporated this living 
wage assessment into its annual 
compensation structure to ensure that 
current and new hires never fall below 
this threshold. In the United States,  WORKFORCE // 
A Cummins employee works safely on the 
plant floor at the Seymour Engine Plant in 
Seymour, Indiana.
U.N. GOAL #8 
DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH44
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTfor example, the living wage in 2019 was 
$15 per hour, although most positions 
pay more. Cummins continually reviews 
wages globally to ensure they are fair, 
equitable, competitive and can attract 
and retain the best talent.
BENEFITS
The company also provides diverse 
benefit programs that are aligned with 
Cummins’ values and focused on 
supporting employees and their families 
based on their unique needs, some of 
which are: tiered health care costs so 
that more junior employees pay less 
for their premiums; paid parental leave 
for primary and secondary caregivers; 
advanced medical services from 
clinicians to support complex health 
care needs and employee assistance 
programs with diverse providers that can 
meet a range of employee needs from 
race related trauma to financial planning 
to transgender transition support.
  TO LEARN MORE  
To learn more about working at 
Cummins, check out the company’s 
Careers page on cummins.com,  
where visitors can get more 
information on development 
programs, onboarding and benefits  
as well as interview tips.TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
Cummins works to get  
employees the skills they need  
to succeed. Despite the pandemic, 
employees engaged in more than 
550,00 hours of mandatory and 
non-mandatory training in 2020 
through the Cummins Learning 
Center, achieving more than  
1 million course completions. 
The Cummins Learning Center 
coordinates a wide variety of 
training including a host of 
voluntary courses designed to 
improve employees’ skill sets. 
Many locations offer additional 
learning opportunities not  
included in the following numbers. 45,763 HOURS 98,728 HOURS
01  COVID-19 Workplace Safety 01  Live It. Lead It. Leadership
02  Export Controls Training 02  Technical Time Tracking
03  Spectrum Diversity 03  Leading at Cummins
04  Code of Business Conduct 2020 – Ethical Behavior and Speaking Up04  Cummins Environment and You
05  Treatment of Each Other at Work 202005  Leadership Conversations
06  Emission Control Features Analysis06  Lockout/Tagout for Authorized Persons
07  Code of Business Conduct07  Preventing Slips, Trips and Falls 
08  Cummins Business Model08  Meeting Effectiveness 
09  Treatment of Each Other at Work 09  Inclusion Initiative
10  Cybersecurity: Phishing10  Cummins Project Management21,421 HOURS 5,412 HOURS
11,352 HOURS 4,548 HOURS
10,913 HOURS4,357 HOURS
10,524 HOURS4,081 HOURS
6,872 HOURS3,925.5 HOURS
5,063 HOURS2,838 HOURS
4,490 HOURS2,759 HOURS
3,648 HOURS2,624 HOURS
1,450 HOURS2,469 HOURS
*Estimated duration11 Six Sigma and Continuous Improvement2,430 HOURSTOP 2020 MANDATORY TRAINING BY TIME 
Time invested in hours*TOP 2020 NON-MANDATORY TRAINING BY TIME 
Time invested in hours*WORKFORCE // 45
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT5.9% 60+ 
16.2% 50-59 
23.4% 40-49 
33.6% 30-39 
20.5% 20-29 
0.4% UNDER 2065%
48.4%35%
51.6%
01 English
02 Marathi
03 Chinese
04 Spanish
05 Hindi
06 Spanish (North American)
07 Portuguese
08 French
09 Romanian
10 TamilUNION MEMBERSHIP
STEM BACKGROUNDEXEMPT
NON-STEM BACKGROUNDA TRULY GLOBAL COMPANY
Cummins is a truly global company, with more than  
half of its workforce located outside the United States.  
The following charts look at employee assignments  
as of Dec. 31, 2020
EMPLOYEES  
IN THE U.S.  
41.3% 
EMPLOYEES  
OUTSIDE THE U.S.  
58.7% 
U.S. BORN 
EMPLOYEES 
33.7% 
EMPLOYEES BORN 
OUTSIDE U.S.  
66.3% 12.4% 
REST OF WORLD10.2% 
MEXICO14.9% 
INDIA8.8% 
CHINA
41.3%
UNITED STATES2.5% 
BRAZIL2.9% 
AUSTRALIA
7% 
UNITED KINGDOMEMPLOYEE 
ASSIGNMENT 
COUNTRIES
15.3% 
REST OF WORLD11.1% 
MEXICO18.8% 
INDIA9.6% 
CHINA
33.7%
UNITED STATES2.7% 
BRAZIL2.2% 
AUSTRALIA
EMPLOYEE 
COUNTRY  
OF BIRTH
6.6% 
UNITED KINGDOMAGE
More than half of the Cummins workforce  
is below the age of 40.EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION
As of Dec. 31,2020, about a third of 
Cummins’ employees were represented by 
various unions under collective bargaining 
agreements expiring between 2021 and 2025. 
STEM INFLUENCE
About half of the company’s salaried/exempt 
employees have a background in science, 
technology, engineering or math.LANGUAGES SPOKEN
More than 20% of Cummins employees  
are proficient at more than one language. 
Here’s a look: 
1.5% 
FOUR OR MORE6.5%  
THREE ORE MORE14% 
TWO OR MORE78% 
ONE LANGUAGE
TOP 10 LANGUAGES 
Spoken by Cummins employeesWORKFORCE // 
ASSIGNMENT COUNTRIES
More than half of Cummins’ employees  
work outside the United States.
COUNTRY OF BIRTH
Cummins employees come from around the 
world. This chart looks at the country of birth 
of Cummins employees as of Dec. 31, 2020.
EMPLOYEES 
BY AGE46
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
GOVERNANCE / ECONOMIC
Cummins believes governance and 
economic performance are fundamental 
to sustainability. Without both, it’s 
difficult for a company to succeed  
over the long term.WHAT’S INSIDE:
BOARD OF DIRECTORS ............................................... 47
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE ......................................... 50
CYBERSECURITY .......................................................... 53
RISK MANAGEMENT ..................................................... 54
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS ......................................... 55
INNOVATION .................................................................. 57
SUPPLY CHAIN .............................................................. 63
CUSTOMER SUPPORT ................................................. 68
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ........................................ 7047
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT12FIFTEEN
Number of times the 
Cummins Board of Directors 
met in 2020  — three times its 
normal number of meetings.  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  BOARD PROVIDES CRITICAL 
OVERSIGHT DURING PANDEMIC
The important work of the Cummins 
Board of Directors was never more 
evident than after the company was  
hit by the full force of the pandemic  
in March 2020.
Providing vision, strength, and stability, 
the board met 15 times in 2020 – three 
times its normal number of meetings. 
Taking advantage of technology to 
gather virtually, the directors played 
a key role in the company’s efforts to 
protect communities, ensure employee 
safety and achieve business continuity.
With the board’s oversight, Cummins 
went from a record decrease in sales 
as communities around the world shut 
down to keep the virus from spreading 
to fourth quarter 2020 revenues 5%  
over the same time period in 2019.OVERSEEING RISK MANAGEMENT
While the pandemic dominated the year, 
it was far from the only issue the Board 
of Directors acted on in 2020.
Time is devoted to Enterprise  
Risk Management at every regular 
board meeting. The full board or its 
committees receive frequent reports 
and information directly from Cummins’ 
senior leaders who have responsibility 
over the company’s enterprise risks. 
Board members review that information 
and management’s proposed mitigation 
strategies, then monitor Cummins’ 
progress on those strategies. The board and its committees also 
provide strong oversight of risks and 
opportunities associated with the 
company’s environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) initiatives, conducting 
at least one annual review by the full 
board of ESG strategy and challenges. 
Climate change, for example,  
was elevated by the board and the 
company’s Enterprise Risk Council  
to a concern that is actively managed.
The board protects the interests 
of shareholders through five fully 
independent committees: Audit; 
Talent Management & Compensation; 
Governance & Nominating; Finance;  
and Safety, Environment & Technology.
Various aspects of ESG are handled  
in the following committees depending 
upon the topic: Talent Management & 
Compensation; Safety, Environment 
& Technology and Governance & 
Nominating. In 2020, the company  
also created a cross-functional 
Management Review Group of  
top leaders to oversee ESG work.DIVERSITY IS KEY VALUE
Diversity is a core value for the board. 
In expanding to 12 members in 2020, 
the board added Kimberly “Kim” A. 
Nelson, a former Senior Vice President 
of External Relations at General Mills, 
Inc. Nelson became the second Black 
woman on the board, joining former  
U.S. Secretary of Labor Alexis M. 
Herman, who serves as Lead Director. 
At Cummins’ Annual Meeting in  
May 2021, shareholders approved 
adding a 13th director, Carla A. Harris,  
a Black woman. Harris is Vice Chairman, 
Managing Director and Senior Client 
Advisor at Morgan Stanley. 
The Board of Directors today includes 
Cummins Chairman and CEO Tom 
Linebarger and 12 independent 
directors, consistent with the definition 
established by the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission and the New 
York Stock Exchange. The directors 
believe shareholders’ interests are best 
served by combining the roles of  
 BOARD OF DIRECTORS // 
Number of directors  
as of May 2021.
74Number of independent  
directors. Chairman and 
CEO Tom Linebarger  
is the only Director  
who is also a  
Cummins employee.
Mandatory retirement 
age for directors.FIVE
Number of fully independent  
committees established by the board.1348
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTChairman and CEO while establishing  
a strong, independent Lead Director.
The Lead Director has many critical 
duties, including conferring with the 
Chairman on, and approving, board 
agendas as well as serving as the leader 
of the board’s Governance & Nominating 
Committee. Cummins is fortunate to 
have Herman, who joined the board in 
2001, serving in this important position.
Board members have a range of 
experience important to the company, 
including in academics, automotive, 
financial, government, manufacturing, 
marketing, and technology. All the 
directors attended at least 75% of  
the board’s meetings in 2020.
PURSUING FRESH IDEAS
The board has worked hard to bring in 
fresh viewpoints. Since 2015, five new 
directors (including Harris) have been 
added to the board. The board also 
pursues new ideas and approaches 
through its goal of having rotating 
committee assignments for directors 
every three to five years.Regular conversations with shareholders 
is another key goal for the board.  
The CEO and at least one board member 
meet with shareholders to discuss topics 
including company growth, strategy,  
and performance on ESG.
The Board of Directors believe  
strongly in accountability.  
Shareholders have the right to call 
special meetings if they meet a voting 
power threshold of 10%. They also  
have the right to unilaterally amend  
company by-laws upon a majority  
vote. More information on the Board  
of Directors and governance as  
well as executive compensation  
can be found in the 2021 Proxy.
Breakdowns on the board  
committees, including committee 
charters, are available on the  
board’s committee website.BOARD DIVERSITY
Diversity and inclusion is important to the  
Cummins Board of Directors from both a race  
and ethnicity perspective as well as gender.  
The now 13-member board added a fifth ethnically 
diverse member and its fifth woman in May 2021. 
Here’s a closer look as of Dec. 31, 2020, to be 
consistent with the rest of the report:
BY GENDER
This chart looks at the board by 
gender as of Dec. 31,2020.BY RACE, ETHNICITY
This chart looks at the race and ethnicity 
of the board as of Dec. 31, 2020.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 800%
16.7%*
66.7%
0%
8.3%
0%8.3%ASIAN
BLACK
LATINX/HISPANIC
BOARD OF 
DIRECTORSWHITE
OTHER
TWO OR MORE RACES
DECLINED TO ANSWERMEN 
66.7% WOMEN 
33.3%*BOARD GOVERNANCE  
AT A GLANCE
Here’s a quick look at key governance 
matters regarding Cummins Board 
of Directors. To learn more, go to the 
governance documents website  
on cummins.com.
BOARD
 »Annual Election of Directors: Yes
LEADERSHIP
 »Combined Chairman  
and CEO: Yes
 »Independent Lead Director: Yes
PROCEDURAL
 »Super Majority Voting  
Threshold for Mergers: No
 »Proxy Access: Yes
 »Shareholder Right to  
Amend Bylaws: Yes
 »Shareholder Called  
Special Meetings: Yes
 »Poison Pill: No
POLICIES / GUIDELINES
 »Code of Conduct for Directors, 
Officers and Employees: Yes
 »Stock Ownership  
Guidelines for Directors  
and Executive Officers: Yes
 »Anti-Hedging and  
Pledging Policies: Yes
 »Compensation Recoupment  
Policy: Yes* As of May 2021, Black members  
 make up 23% of the board.* As of May 2021, women make up  
 38.5% of the board.BOARD OF DIRECTORS // 49
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTCUMMINS 
BOARD 
MEMBERS
KIMBERLY A. 
NELSON 
Retired Senior Vice 
President, External 
Relations, at General 
Mills Inc., a world leading 
manufacturer of branded 
consumer food products.  
She joined the board  
in 2020.
CARLA A.  
HARRIS
Vice Chairman, Managing 
Director, Morgan Stanley,  
a global leader in 
investment banking  
and financial services.  
She joined the board  
in 2021.
THOMAS J. 
LYNCH
Chairman of TE 
Connectivity Ltd., a global 
provider of connectivity and 
sensor solutions. He joined 
the board in 2015.DR.  
FRANKLIN R.  
CHANG DIAZ
Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of Ad 
Astra Rocket Company,  
a U.S. spaceflight 
engineering company 
based in Houston, Texas. 
He joined the board  
in 2009.
N. THOMAS 
LINEBARGER
Chairman and Chief  
Executive Officer,  
Cummins Inc. He joined  
the board in 2009.ROBERT J. 
BERNHARD
Vice President for  
Research and a  
Professor of Engineering 
at the University of Notre 
Dame. He joined the  
board in 2008.
WILLIAM I. 
MILLER
President of The Wallace 
Foundation, a national 
philanthropy with a mission 
of fostering equity and 
improvements in learning and 
enrichment for young people 
and in the arts for everyone, 
since 2011. He joined the 
Cummins board in 1989.
BRUNO V.  
DI LEO 
Retired Senior Vice 
President, IBM Corporation, 
a global technology, and 
consulting company. 
Currently Managing Director 
of Bearing-North, LLC, 
an independent advisory 
firm. He joined the board 
in 2015.
GEORGIA R. 
NELSON
Retired President and  
Chief Executive Officer  
of PTI Resources, LLC,  
an independent consulting 
firm. She joined the board 
in 2004.
STEPHEN B. 
DOBBS
Retired Senior Group  
President at Fluor 
Corporation, a Fortune 
500 company offering 
engineering, procurement, 
construction, maintenance, 
and project management 
services. He joined the 
board in 2010.
KAREN H. 
QUINTOS
Retired Chief Customer  
Officer of Dell Technologies  
Inc., a global supplier of 
personal computers and 
other computer hardware 
items. She joined the  
board in 2017.
ROBERT K. 
HERDMAN
Managing Director of 
Kalorama Partners, LLC,  
a Washington, D.C.-based 
consulting firm. He joined 
the board in 2008.
ALEXIS M.  
HERMAN
Chairman and Chief  
Executive Officer of New 
Ventures, LLC, a corporate 
consulting company.  
She joined the board  
in 2001 and currently  
serves as Lead Director.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS // 50
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTSUSTAINABILITY 
STARTS WITH 
ETHICAL BEHAVIOR
Cummins believes sustainability starts with ethical behavior, 
which has guided the company in good times and bad 
throughout its more than 100-year history.
Today, that guidance starts with the  
10 principles that make up Cummins’ 
Code of Business Conduct, which 
begins with the simple but far-reaching 
directive that, “We will follow the law 
everywhere.” Company employees 
worldwide are required to comply with 
the code, which is emphasized at 
onboarding, during mandatory online 
training throughout an employee’s 
career at Cummins, and in regular 
communications across the company. 
The Ethics and Compliance function 
is charged with keeping the Code 
of Business Conduct top of mind at 
Cummins, as well as overseeing  
the company’s Supplier Code  
of Conduct, which starts with a  
similarly sweeping first principle:  “Obey the law everywhere.” The function 
is also charged with ensuring employees  
know the important role they play in 
enforcing these codes.
There are multiple ways employees  
can report possible code violations.  
They can use the company’s Ethics 
website, Cummins’ Ethics Helpline, send 
an email to the Ethics and Compliance 
mailbox, or simply talk to their supervisor, 
Human Resources representative or the 
company’s Legal function. Cummins 
has a strict Non-Retaliation Policy for 
employees who report their concerns  
in good faith. They can remain 
anonymous, where allowed by law.
Cummins has a global team of 
investigators across the company to look 
into possible code or policy violations. MAINTAINING AN  
ETHICAL CULTURE
In 2020, the Ethics and Compliance 
team worked to maintain Cummins’ 
ethical culture despite employees 
working under stressful circumstances 
because of the pandemic, whether at 
home, balancing the demands of work 
and family, or in Cummins’ facilities, 
performing essential work while 
protecting themselves, their co-workers 
and their families from the virus.
The function reminded employees 
through emails, blogs and by other 
means that while business conditions 
were challenging, Cummins’ 
commitment to its core value of integrity 
never wavers. Ethics and Compliance 
also reminded employees that doing  
the right thing includes speaking up 
when they see potential Code of 
Business Conduct violations,  
even during a pandemic.  
In addition to that effort, the function 
took steps to strengthen Cummins’ 
ethical culture in the future.
After onboarding, for example, most 
employees learn about the importance 
of Cummins’ ethical work culture from 
more than 10 different training courses 
on topics ranging from Anti-Bribery to Treatment of Each Other at Work.  
The training is assigned on a cyclical 
basis over several years, although  
some is targeted to the specific 
employees who would find it most 
relevant, such as Protecting Human 
Rights in the Supply Chain.
In the spirit of continuous improvement, 
the function in 2020 put out a request for 
proposals for a training provider to offer 
more meaningful and engaging courses. 
The new training platform started in the 
second quarter of 2021 and will continue 
focusing on issues such as anti-bribery, 
antitrust and fair competition, conflicts 
of interest, data privacy, ethical business 
practices, protecting human rights, 
avoiding money-laundering and more.
MAKING POLICIES ACCESSIBLE
The updated training was one of  
several initiatives the Ethics and 
Compliance function completed  
in 2020 with an eye on the future. 
The team also unveiled a new internal 
website where employees can find  
easy-to-read executive summaries  
of more than 29 policies referenced  
in the Code of Business Conduct  
or aligned closely with Cummins’ 
Mission, Vision, and Values.  
 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE // 
CUMMINS’ 10  
ETHICAL PRINCIPLES
Cummins ethics and governance initiatives  
are built around the 10 Statements of Ethical  
Principles in the Code of Business Conduct:
 01 We will follow the law – everywhere.
 02 We will embrace diverse perspectives  
and backgrounds and treat all people  
with dignity and respect.
 03 We will compete fairly and honestly.
 04 We will avoid conflicts of interest.
 05 We will demand that everything  
we do leads to a cleaner, healthier,  
and safer environment.
 06 We will protect our technology,  
our information, and our  
intellectual property.
 07 We will demand that our financial  
records and processes are clear  
and understandable.
 08 We will strive to improve  
our communities.
 09 We will communicate with  
honesty and integrity.
 10 We will create a culture where  
all employees take responsibility  
for ethical behavior.51
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTCUMMINS SUPPLIER  
CODE OF CONDUCT
The Cummins Supplier Code of Conduct applies 
to all businesses providing products or services 
to Cummins and its subsidiaries, joint ventures, 
divisions, or affiliates. Available in 15 languages,  
the supplier code is built around seven principles  
and helps Cummins ensure that it is doing business 
with other companies around the world that share  
its values for these sustainable practices:
 01 Obey the law everywhere.
 02 Treat people with dignity  
and respect. 
 03 Avoid conflicts of interest. 
 04 Provide a safe and  
healthy workspace. 
 05 Protect Cummins  
technology, information,  
and intellectual property. 
 06 Protect the environment and 
conserve natural resources.
 07 Assist Cummins in  
enforcing the code.
Cummins requires a verification response from 
suppliers that they are following the Supplier Code 
of Conduct before they are added to the company’s 
supplier database. Cummins may visit facilities, 
review documentation and conduct audits,  
if necessary, to ensure compliance.The project was designed to broaden 
employees’ understanding of  
the company’s core policies and 
strengthen Cummins’ ethical culture.
As part of this work, the function 
played a critical role in developing the 
new Cummins Policy Office, a cross-
functional team charged with ensuring 
the company’s policies don’t simply 
gather dust. The team manages the 
Cummins Core Policies website, sets  
the requirements to be a core policy  
(the “policy on policies”), and establishes 
rules for consistently updating and 
reviewing policies.
The company’s Core Policies range 
from the Anti-bribery and Prohibited 
Payments Policy to its Restricted 
Substances Policy.
As 2020 demonstrated, building a 
foundation of ethical behavior can take 
many forms — making policies more 
accessible to employees, improving 
training, or working to uphold ethical 
behavior in the midst of a pandemic.  
The end result, however, is the same:  
a stronger, more sustainable company.MAINTAINING THE CODE
Training and guidance are not enough to ensure compliance.  
Cummins relies on its employees to speak up if they witness  
behavior that potentially violates the Code of Business Conduct.  
Employees may report a potential violation through a secure  
website or a toll-free telephone number. Where legally  
permissible, employees can report anonymously if they wish.
2017 2018 2019 2020
Total cases 1,904 2,215 2,436 1,601
Cases outside U.S. 49.7% 51.5% 47% 51%
Cases in U.S. 50.3% 48.5% 53% 49%
Anonymous reporting 32% 35% 37% 40%
Cases substantiated* 38% 35% 47% 51%
Terminations** 38% 40% 41% 37%
Average days to close*** 16 19 22 17%
* Substantiated cases are now calculated on cases only investigated through  
 the Ethics Investigation Process.
** The termination rate is now calculated on substantiated cases and cases only  
 investigated through the Ethics Investigation Process.
*** The average days to close formula updated to accurately account for missing  
 dates in the data.COMPLIANCE TRAINING
Thousands of employees complete mandatory ethics 
training every year at Cummins through the Cummins 
Learning Center. The company is changing its reporting  
this year to look more narrowly at annual participation. 
Training is frequently updated, assigned based on its 
relevance to particular jobs and delivered on a cyclical 
basis. So, in a single year, training in one topic area  
may be larger or smaller.
TRAINING 2020 COMPLETIONS
Anti-bribery 1,338
Careful Communications at Work 1,314
Code of Business Conduct 25,423
Conflicts of Interest 3,345
Data Privacy 1,418
Doing Business Ethically 1,264
Export Compliance    155
Preventing Money Laundering    605
Protecting Human Rights  
in the Supply Chain187
Treatment of Each Other at Work 24,845ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE // 52
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTABOUT THE POLICY
Here’s a quick look at Cummins’  
Human Rights Policy:
ADOPTION: Completed in December 
2017, after a nearly year-long review, 
the policy was officially published in 
January 2018. 
CONTENTS: The policy specifically 
precludes human trafficking and 
exploitation, forced labor, child labor, 
bonded and prison labor, and supports 
foreign and migrant worker rights.
IMPACT: The policy applies to Cummins 
entities in which the company has 
a controlling ownership interest or 
management responsibilities, including 
subsidiaries and joint ventures.
INSPIRATION: The policy was  
guided by the Universal Declaration  
of Human Rights, the International 
Labor Organization’s Declaration  
on Fundamental Principles and  
Rights at Work, the United Nations 
Global Compact and the U.N.’s 
Guiding Principles on Business  
and Human Rights.
SUPPLIERS: Cummins commits to 
supply chain transparency, pledging  
to work with suppliers and partners  
in high-risk locations to mitigate the  
risk of human trafficking and other 
human rights violations.MAKING HUMAN  
RIGHTS A PRIORITY
Cummins has long believed in protecting human rights,  
both within the company and throughout its supply chain.
For many years, the Cummins Code 
of Business Conduct has stated the 
company “will not tolerate child or forced 
labor anywhere and we will not do 
business with any company that does.” 
In 2018, Cummins officially adopted a 
separate Human Rights Policy to ensure 
there is special emphasis on where the 
company stands on this important matter.
The Human Rights Policy specifically 
prohibits all forms of compulsory labor, 
as well as human trafficking. It applies  
to the company, its joint ventures, 
affiliated companies, and Cummins’ 
suppliers. If Cummins doesn’t have 
a controlling ownership interest or 
management responsibility with a  
related entity, the policy states it  
will take steps to require compliance. 
In 2019, Cummins implemented 
company-wide training on human  
rights for employees working within  the company’s supply chain.  
Cummins also began integrating 
provisions of the policy directly into  
the Eyes Open Audits conducted 
primarily by Purchasing employees  
when visiting suppliers to check on 
worker safety, any environmental 
concerns, and other issues.
In establishing the policy, Cummins 
assessed its risk for violations, 
determining the greatest risk exists  
deep in the company’s supply chain. 
Outside vendors providing services  
such as catering, or cleaning were  
also identified as areas to watch.
These areas receive extra attention  
and oversight from the company.  
The Ethics and Compliance function  
is working to develop additional ways  
to monitor these often less visible 
elements of the company’s operations.Cummins is committed to supply  
chain transparency and ensuring its 
partners, especially in high risk areas, 
adopt measures to mitigate human  
rights risks. Suppliers are required  
to sign response forms agreeing to  
comply with the company’s Supplier 
Code of Conduct, which also  
specifically prohibits forced and  
child labor. Cummins will work  
with suppliers to develop a plan  
for compliance or a strategy for  
exiting their work with the company.
If any inappropriate behaviors or 
conditions viewed as systemic or  
critical are observed during supplier 
audits, the situation is reviewed  
with the Cummins Legal function  
for appropriate action.ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE // 
HUMAN RIGHTS  
REPORTING
Ethics and Compliance is also  
responsible for responding to the 
growing number of governments 
requiring reporting on human rights  
as a condition of doing business in 
their jurisdictions.
The company currently reports  
requirements to Australia, the United  
Kingdom and the state of California  
in the United States. The disclosures  
can be found in the company’s 
Transparency in Supply Chains  
webpage on cummins.com.
In the U.K., for example, companies  
doing business in the country must  
assess suppliers on the risk they  
present from a human rights 
perspective. Those deemed at 
highest risk must then be subject 
to increased levels of review and 
oversight. California asks companies  
to disclose which of their policies  
deal with modern slavery, any risk 
assessment process companies  
have completed and staff training  
to identify and react to any incidents 
of modern slavery they see.
The company expects additional  
government entities such as  
the European Union will initiate  
similar rules.53
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTCYBERSECURITY TAKES  
A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO 
PROTECTING CUMMINS’ DATA
Cybersecurity is critical to the 
company’s ability to power a  
more prosperous world.
Cummins Global Cybersecurity is 
committed to protecting the company’s 
intellectual property, customer data, 
employee data, the data increasingly 
important to product innovation and 
reliability, and the computer systems 
and networks critical to keeping nearly 
60,000 employees around the world 
aligned and moving forward.
It’s a tall task, but Cummins believes 
the company’s holistic approach to 
cybersecurity, including advanced 
technologies, good governance, 
extensive employee training, and 
innovative programming, is the best 
approach to achieving its goals 
of protecting the company from 
increasingly sophisticated attacks.A SOLID FOUNDATION
Cummins Global Cybersecurity 
starts with a solid foundation, built 
on 19 separate policies governing 
different aspects of cybersecurity at 
the company. The function reports to 
Cummins’ Chief Information Officer and 
regularly to the company’s Board of 
Directors. Cummins’ Chief Information 
Security Officer reported to the board 
five times on metrics and program 
updates in 2020.
The company is aligned to the 
cybersecurity framework developed  
by the U.S. Commerce Department’s 
National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity 
Framework (CSF). All Cummins personnel,  including temporary employees, 
contractors, and business partners 
handling information on the company’s 
behalf, are required to follow the data 
protection requirements contained in 
Cummins’ policies and procedures.
The company has used outside experts 
to review its operations, evaluate 
Cummins Global Cybersecurity’s maturity 
and goals in alignment with NIST and 
benchmark the function against peer 
companies. Cummins continues to 
enhance its cybersecurity operations to 
meet the changing security landscape.
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
In addition to implementing the hardware 
and software necessary to protect 
Cummins from cyber threats, Cummins 
Global Cybersecurity has also worked 
to engage Cummins employees in its 
efforts through training and education, 
starting from onboarding, where 
new employees first learn about the importance of protecting the  
company’s data and information.
Employees who receive access to 
Cummins’ digital network receive training 
on the devices they use including 
cybersecurity training, and the company 
is expanding training to employees who 
don’t have direct access to the network.
In 2019, Cummins’ expanded its 
required online training for employees 
with access to the company’s digital 
network through the Cummins Learning 
Center. The 10 video-based training 
courses deal with topics ranging from 
information security and password 
protection to how to recognize and 
report phishing e-mails. The courses are 
short and the videos are fun, featuring 
engaging characters who reinforce the 
training employees get in onboarding 
and when they receive access to the 
Cummins network.
INNOVATIVE INITIATIVES.
Anyone with a Cummins account, 
including contract and joint venture 
workers, also has the ability at the  
press of a button to report suspicious 
emails. The company is constantly 
testing and implementing tools to  
detect anything outside of normal 
operations such as malware. In addition to new tools, the cybersecurity 
team collaborates with the business to 
conduct vendor security assessments to 
ensure vendors have adequate security 
measures in place before being entrusted 
with Cummins data.  
Finally, in a world that is increasingly 
interconnected, Cummins Global 
Cybersecurity is engaged in product 
development early on to maintain the 
highest levels of protection for the 
company’s products against cyber threats.CYBERSECURITY // 
GETTING THE  
MESSAGE OUT
Cummins designates October  
as Cybersecurity Awareness  
Month. Global Cybersecurity team 
members and leaders go out and 
speak about the importance of 
cybersecurity in a variety of settings 
and multiple locations.
The team has also established a 
Cybersecurity Ambassador program, 
providing participants with the 
information they need to talk to their 
co-workers about the importance of 
protecting Cummins’ digital resources 
and information. The program is 
designed so employees receive the 
cybersecurity message in informal  
as well as formal settings.54
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTCUMMINS FOCUSES 
ON RESILIENCY IN 
MANAGING RISK
Cummins believes strongly that 
managing risk is critical to sustainability, 
and effective risk management starts 
with enterprise resiliency.
A company’s ability to anticipate and manage potential business interruptions can  
be the difference between success and failure, whether the risk involves a supply  
chain disruption, maintaining a safe workplace, regulatory challenges, or in the  
case of the 2020 pandemic, elements of all three.
COVID-19 hit Cummins hard early on, but over time the processes and procedures 
established by the company enabled Cummins to safely reopen plants and essential 
facilities, protecting employees and communities while supporting customers 
performing essential tasks such as transporting food and medicine.
The pandemic served as a reminder of the importance of enterprise resiliency for the 
company, which, even in the midst of the COVID-19 crisis, took steps in 2020 to 
prepare for future risks.ESTABLISHING A RISK 
MANAGEMENT CULTURE
The Enterprise Risk Management  
team at Cummins works with the 
company’s top leaders to establish a 
culture where key risks are identified 
and responded to appropriately, with 
guidance and oversight from the 
company’s Board of Directors.
The Cummins Executive Risk Council, 
comprised of the Chief Operating  
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General 
Counsel, Vice President – Corporate 
Strategy, Chief Administrative Officer, 
Corporate Controller and Vice President 
of Internal Audit, meets at least quarterly 
to review and update material risks.  
At every meeting a few risk owners  
will do an in-depth briefing on their  
risk where the council can ask  
questions and debate the risk. 
The Board of Directors oversee the  
most significant risks. The board or  
its committees receive briefings at every 
meeting on one or more relevant risks. 
Once a year the board reviews the entire 
Enterprise Risk Management program 
and the results of the last enterprise  
risk assessment.  
 
 Cummins’ risk management team also 
works with other assurance groups that 
play a role in managing risk throughout 
the company, including Risk Insurance 
and Global Security, which oversees the 
Business Continuity Plans established 
by every Cummins location. These plans 
are regularly tested and improved as part 
of Global Security’s holistic approach 
to emergency management. Key sites 
undergo tabletop exercises to ensure 
they are ready if an emergency occurs. 
This process proved invaluable during 
the initial phase of the pandemic.
The Risk Management team also works 
with the company’s Area Business 
Organizations on the risk management 
programs in their regions to track and 
mitigate key risks.
A NEW RISK CATEGORY
Regulatory compliance, supply chain 
risks and intellectual property protection 
are among the issues that have long 
been subject to the company’s risk 
management discussions. The Executive 
Risk Council and the Board of Directors 
re-evaluated in 2020 how the company 
traditionally tracks risks, asking if there 
were other longer-term issues with the 
potential to significantly alter the way  
the company works.   The company decided it was important 
to begin tracking a new category of 
risk in addition to the current enterprise 
risks. These “Emerging Risks” do not 
necessarily present an immediate or 
large threat to business resiliency but 
have been identified as potentially 
important in the future. Climate change, 
for example, was added to the emerging 
risk list and then recently moved to an 
enterprise risk that is actively managed.  
By taking steps to identify emerging 
issues, Cummins is taking the next  
step in risk management, and ultimately 
the sustainability of the company for 
years to come.
 
 RISK MANAGEMENT // 
  TO LEARN MORE  
More on the Board of Directors’ 
efforts to manage risk is available 
throughout the 2021 Proxy posted 
in the Investor Relations section of 
cummins.com. Potential material  
risks facing the company are listed  
in detail starting on page 3 of the  
2021 Annual Report on Form  
10-K, which is also available  
in the Investor Relations section  
of cummins.com.55
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTMAKING THE CASE 
FOR A CLEANER 
TOMORROW
The Government Relations team works in support  
of Cummins’ mission to power a more prosperous  
world and, by extension, the company’s environmental, 
social and governance initiatives to achieve that goal.
In 2020, the team focused on educating 
policymakers regarding opportunities to 
support new technologies like hydrogen 
power and vehicle electrification, 
continued work on improving policies 
around environmental performance of 
conventional technologies; advocated for 
better trade policies; engaged at the state 
and federal levels on issues surrounding 
racial equity and addressed urgent 
matters around the pandemic response 
to ensure Cummins’ essential employees 
could work safely to support critical 
businesses operating around the globe.  
MOVING POWER FORWARD
Cummins has always taken leadership 
roles in advancing policies important  
to its industry. In the last few years, the accelerated adoption of decarbonized 
technologies has become one of the 
most important. In 2020, Cummins’ 
Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger 
was elected to the Board of the 
Hydrogen Council, a global group 
of CEOs dedicated to educating 
stakeholders about hydrogen, and was 
active as the group developed a study 
on decarbonization pathways for the 
promising low-carbon energy source. 
Cummins also worked closely with the 
National Association of Manufacturers 
(NAM), the U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
and the Business Roundtable as they 
developed their respective climate 
policies; successfully encouraging each 
association to endorse the goals of the 
Paris Agreement on climate change and the need for a market-based mechanism 
to internalize the social cost of carbon.
In Europe, the company engaged  
in climate policy with governments  
directly and through trade associations 
such as Hydrogen Europe and the 
European Battery Association, and 
through providing intelligence to  
public policy consultations.  
TRADE
With the finalization of the United States-
Canada-Mexico Agreement (USMCA), 
the importance of the trading relationship 
between North American countries 
was emphasized with a focus on 
standardizing environmental regulations. 
Cummins served as a leading voice  
in support of the passage of USMCA 
and the environmental standards set  
by the agreement. 
Cummins also deeply engaged in 
U.S.-China trade relations in 2020,  
encouraging the respective governments 
to address long-standing issues creating 
tension between the two nations. 
Linebarger, in his role as Chairman of the 
U.S.-China Business Council, has been a 
key voice within the business community, 
working to find policy solutions to ensure 
continued cooperation between the 
world’s two largest economies.RACIAL EQUITY
With the announcement of Cummins 
Advocating for Racial Equity (CARE),  
the Government Relations team is 
directing advocacy efforts for the 
company. The initiative focuses on  
policy priorities at the state and local 
levels in key Cummins communities 
throughout the United States. 
Government Relations leads a coalition 
of advocacy groups and business 
leaders pushing for police and criminal 
justice reform in Indianapolis and in the 
Indiana State Legislature. The function is 
developing strategies in coordination with 
CARE leadership and site leaders in other 
key Cummins communities in the U.S.
PANDEMIC RESPONSE
At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Government Relations collaborated 
across the company’s global footprint to 
ensure Cummins’ facilities and suppliers 
had the equipment and support needed 
to stay safe and continue operating; 
especially producing and maintaining  
the engines and generators so essential  
to the delivery of goods, medical 
equipment and now vaccines. 
In the United Kingdom, Cummins was 
recognized by the government as a  
case study for best practices in operating during the pandemic. 
Additionally, the Government  
Relations team worked closely with  
the Filtration function as it worked to 
adapt Cummins technology to make  
personal protective equipment for 
respirators and face coverings.GOVERNMENT RELATIONS // 
CUMMINS AND 
REGULATIONS
Cummins has long supported tough, 
clear and enforceable regulations that 
drive innovation in the commercial 
power industry. 
The company has supported 
greenhouse gas / fuel efficiency 
regulations in the United States as 
well as national and regional efforts 
to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) 
and particulate matter (PM), key 
ingredients in smog. In China and 
India, the Government Relations team 
has engaged with policymakers to 
ensure NOx and PM standards are 
fully implemented and enforced.
These engagements, along with 
additional advocacy by the team, 
is how Cummins uses its voice and 
its technology leadership to inform 
governments about the policies that 
will lead to a more sustainable future.56
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTLOBBYING 
Cummins belongs to a number of trade 
organizations. While the company may not agree 
with these associations on every matter, Cummins 
believes they help ensure government leaders  
know where the company stands on key issues.  
This chart lists U.S. trade organizations that Cummins paid dues in excess of  
$50,000 during calendar year 2020, as well as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,  
which fell below the $50,000 threshold. Listed with each group is an estimate  
of the portion of dues used for lobbying or other political expenditures.
TRADE  
ORGANIZATIONLOBBYING  
ESTIMATEKEY CUMMINS 
ISSUES
National Association  
of Manufacturers$32,804.00Immigration, trade, 
manufacturing
Business Roundtable $75,000.00 Trade, taxes
Engine Manufacturers 
Association$4,721.00Truck and engine 
manufacturing
U.S. Chamber of Commerce $10,000.00 Immigration, taxes
American Trucking Association $16,129.00 Trade, environment
TOTAL $138,654.00POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
In the United States, political contributions are made by the Cummins Inc.  
Political Action Committee (CIPAC) and funded solely by voluntary employee 
contributions. CIPAC makes contributions to federal and state candidates  
on a bipartisan basis and according to federal and state election laws.  
CIPAC is governed by corporate policies and bylaws that state:
 »CIPAC contributions are strictly voluntary.
 »Employees will not be reimbursed directly or indirectly for political contributions.
 »Employees will not be pressured to contribute to CIPAC  
or make any other personal political contribution.
 »Failure to contribute to CIPAC shall not disadvantage an employee’s career.
CIPAC contributions are based on:
 »Public integrity of the candidate
 »Representation of a Cummins facility or employees
 »Support for issues important to Cummins
 »Timely and effective constituent service
 »Political leadership or organization
 »Support for the company’s values
All of CIPAC’s activities are disclosed to the Cummins Board of Directors  
in an annual political contribution report. Here’s a complete list of the  
political action’s contributions.POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
Cummins bans contributions using 
corporate funds to candidates, political 
parties and independent expenditures, 
including advertisements that support  
or oppose individual candidates. 
The company also will not use corporate 
funds to contribute to 501 (c) (4) and  
527 tax-exempt groups in the United 
States that are engaged in political 
activity or make payments to influence 
ballot issues, unless the issues are 
directly tied to the company’s core 
values and business interests. 
In those cases, Cummins is  
committed to publicly disclosing any 
payments including recipient names  
and amounts. The company made  
no such payments in 2020.GOVERNMENT RELATIONS // 57
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTINNOVATION PLAYS KEY 
ROLE IN CUMMINS’ PAST, 
PRESENT AND FUTURE
Innovation has been  
critical at Cummins, from 
the days company founder 
Clessie Cummins first 
tinkered with a diesel 
engine more than100 years 
ago to today as company 
engineers chart a path to  
a carbon neutral-future.While times have changed, and 
demands have grown, the basic 
challenge is the same: provide safe, 
clean, efficient, and dependable power 
to help customers achieve their business 
goals. Despite a pandemic, Cummins 
once again met that challenge in 2020.
The company, for example, received a 
record 312 global patents in 2020, a 
more than 12% increase over 2019, as 
Cummins worked to improve its current 
product line and expand its portfolio of 
low-carbon power systems. Cummins 
believes in the power of choice, 
providing customers with a range of 
power solutions so they can choose 
what makes the most sense for their 
unique situation and goals.
Facing a 16% drop in revenues, 
Cummins nevertheless spent $906 
million on research, development and 
engineering expenses in 2020, down 
from the record $1 billion in 2019.  
 However, spending as a percentage of 
sales at the company actually increased 
from 4.2% in 2019 to 4.6% in 2020 as 
Cummins maintained its commitment  
to innovation.
STEPPING INTO THE FUTURE
The clearest example of innovation  
was perhaps the company’s first 
Hydrogen Day in 2020 to highlight 
Cummins’ progress on products 
connected to this promising low- 
carbon, renewable fuel source. Nearly 
2,000 analysts, media members and 
potential customers attended the virtual 
event, learning about the company’s 
proton-exchange membrane (PEM)  
and solid oxide fuel cells as well  
as the electrolyzers Cummins is 
manufacturing that are critical to 
producing renewable hydrogen.
The supply of renewable hydrogen  
is a major obstacle to widespread use  
of the fuel. Cummins is doing its part to 
address that challenge. The company’s 
20-megawatt PEM electrolyzer is part 
of the world’s largest PEM electrolysis 
plant in Bécancour, Quebec (Canada), 
and a 5-megawatt Cummins’ electrolyzer 
is part of the largest project in the  
United States.
 The past 12 months have been filled  
with firsts and milestones for Cummins’ 
New Power segment, which leads  
the company’s work in battery electric  
and fuel cell electric technologies. 
Cummins’ hydrogen fuel cell technology, 
for example, is helping to power the 
world’s first hydrogen powered 
passenger train in Europe and  
will help power North America’s  
first hydrogen powered ferry in  
San Francisco. By the end of 2020,  
New Power produced more than  
900 battery modules and more than  
200 electrified powertrain systems.
ACHIEVING BENEFITS TODAY
While New Power may have gotten 
the most attention, the largest share 
of 2020 patents — nearly 40% — 
involved Cummins Engine segment, 
which produces the internal combustion 
engines the company is famous 
for. Cummins believes strongly that 
innovation in both internal combustion 
and alternate technologies is the best 
way to achieve environmental benefits 
today and a carbon-neutral tomorrow.
The company announced multiple 
improvements to its traditional product 
lines, including up to a 5% fuel economy 
increase in the 2020 X15 Efficiency 
Series used in long-haul trucking, reducing both greenhouse gases  
and the total cost of ownership.
Cummins Westport officials,  
meanwhile, announced in January  
2020, that its B6.7N natural gas 
engine had received certifications  
from both the EPA and the California  
Air Resources Board. The B6.7N is  
the third Cummins Westport engine 
to meet California’s optional ultra-low 
standard for nitrogen oxides (NOx), 
which is 90% below the current EPA  
limit for the key contributor to smog.
REMEMBERING THE BASICS
While environmental considerations  
are getting more attention than  
ever before as the world works to 
address challenges like climate change, 
Cummins knows after more than  
100 years in business that any power 
system is only effective if customers  
use and embrace it.  
That’s why power and dependability  
are always part of the company’s 
innovation journey. It’s a challenge 
Cummins knows well, going back to 
the days when Clessie Cummins saw 
potential in a new technology called  
the diesel engine. 
A Cummins employee works at the 
company’s solid oxide fuel cell testing 
center in Malta, New York (U.S.) INNOVATION // 
U.N. GOAL #9 
INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE58
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTRESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT
Cummins topped $900 million in  
spending on research, development  
and engineering expenses for a  
third consecutive year in 2020.PATENT RECORD
Cummins received a record 
number of global patents in  
2020, topping 300 patents  
in a calendar year for the  
first time.
20131562020312
2018264
2017287
2016259
2015249
20142172019277COMPANY  
RECORD
$754 MILLION$735 MILLION$636 MILLION$752 MILLION$902 MILLION$1 BILLION$906 MILLION2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014COMPANY RECORD
A 5-megawatt Cummins’ PEM electrolyzer  
will be used to produce renewable hydrogen 
using water from the Wells Dam (above) on  
the Columbia River in Washington state.  
The project is the first of its kind by a public 
utility in the United States. Cummins is also 
part of the largest PEM electrolysis plant in  
the world. The Air Liquide facility in Bécancour, 
Quebec (Canada), chose a Cummins 
20-megawatt electrolyzer. Electrolyzers  
can split water into hydrogen and oxygen.ENGINE SEGMENT  
LEADS WAY
The Cummins Engine Business  
segment received the most  
patents, collecting nearly 40%. PATENTS BY 
ORGANIZATION
39.7% CUMMINS ENGINE   
20.5% CUMMINS FILTRATION 
11.2% CUMMINS NEW POWER
10.6% CUMMINS TURBO TECHNOLOGIES 
9.0% CUMMINS POWER GENERATION 
5.8% CUMMINS EMISSION SOLUTIONS 
1.6% CUMMINS FUEL SYSTEMS
1.0% CUMMINS GENERATOR TECHNOLOGIES
0.6% CUMMINS ELECTRONICSFIVE
Percentage fuel economy improvement in  
the 2020 X15 Efficiency Series diesel engine. 
906 
MILLION
Amount in U.S. dollars  
spent by Cummins on 
research, development  
and engineering  
expenses in 2020.
800+
Number of Cummins New Power  
employees now working on low-  
and no-carbon technologies.
312  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  
INNOVATION // 
Record number of  
global patents received 
by Cummins personnel  
in 2020.59
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTPARTNERING FOR PROGRESS
Cummins believes in partnering with others to achieve innovation in its products.  
Here’s a look at 17 public-private partnerships the company is working on.
PROJECT NAME SPONSOR PARTNERS
High Efficiency Class 8 Engine, Powertrain and Vehicle Technology Development and DemonstrationDepartment of 
Energy (DOE)Peterbilt, Eaton
Advanced Platooning through Advanced Driver Assistance Systems Integration with other Advanced Sensory / Info Sources DOE Michelin, Clemson University
Connected and Learning-Based Optimal Freight Management for Efficiency DOEMichelin, University of  
California Berkeley
Development of Advanced Combustion Strategies for Direct Injection Heavy Duty LPG Engines to Achieve 
Near-Diesel Engine Efficiency - Cummins is a Subcontractor to Colorado State UniversityDOE Colorado State University
Cummins PEM Fuel Cell System for Heavy Duty Applications DOE Hydrogenics
Small-Scale Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Systems and Hybrid Electrolyzer Technology Development DOE
Improving Cost and Efficiency of the Scalable Solid Oxide Fuel Cells Power System DOE University of Connecticut
Dynamic Skip Fire on a Heavy-Duty Natural Gas Engine DOE Tula TechnologyINNOVATION // 
U.N. GOAL #17 
PARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOALS60
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTPROJECT NAME SPONSOR PARTNERS
Wireless Extreme Fast Charging Technology applied to Class 8 Battery Electric 
Vehicle Truck - Cummins is a Subcontractor to WAVEDOEWireless Advanced  
Vehicle Electrification
Fundamental Natural Gas Combustion Studies - Cummins is a Subcontractor to Colorado State University DOE Colorado State University
Class 5 Electric Delivery Truck with High Efficiency Natural Gas SI Range Extender 
Engine - Cummins is a Subcontractor to Argonne National LabDOE
High Efficiency, Ultra Low Emissions Heavy-Duty Natural Gas Engine Research and Development 
- Cummins is a Subcontractor to National Renewable Energy Lab (NREL)DOE and 
SCAQMDNational Renewable Energy 
Laboratory and SCAQMD
Manufacturing Technology Development to Advance the Manufacturability of the Advanced Combat Engine (ACE) Department of 
DefenseAchates Power
Modify Current Steel Powertrain Materials using Small Amount of Alloying Additions to 
Significantly Improve Mechanical, Physical, and Thermal Property of the MaterialDOE
Fundamental Understanding of Cu-Zeolite SCR Catalyst Aging Mechanism DOE
Development and Validation of an Integrated Modeling Approach to Account for 
Fuel Nozzle Flow Effects on Engine Combustion CharacteristicsDOE Sandia National Laboratories
Multiscale Research to Enable Fuel-Efficient, Low-Emissions Engine System Technologies DOE Convergent SciencePARTNERING FOR PROGRESS (CONT.)INNOVATION // 61
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTSPECIAL REPORT
AN INNOVATION  
FOCUSED PATH TO 
CARBON NEUTRALITY
Growing the economy while preserving 
the planet for generations to come is 
the challenge of our time.
Cummins embraces that challenge and believes the company is uniquely  
positioned to take a leadership role. Having long supported tough, clear and 
enforceable regulations, Cummins uses its expertise to achieve tougher  
environmental standards, create jobs and ultimately strengthen communities.  
The company supports an innovation-focused path to carbon neutrality that  
includes multiple technologies, providing customers the power to choose  
what works best for them.
After more than a century in business, Cummins knows its customers’ needs.  
The company today powers everything from trucks, buses, rail and marine, to 
construction equipment, farm machinery, the generators that ensure hospitals  
and data centers can operate without interruption and much more. A one-size- 
fits-all solution won’t work for such diverse markets, and any power technology 
moving forward must be dependable, durable and affordable for customers in  
addition to being better for the environment.
Some of the Cummins New Power  
business segment’s applications  
using low-carbon power systems.
TAKING ACTION
Cummins is moving quickly to do its 
part to reach a low-carbon future. In 
late 2019, the company released its 
PLANET 2050 environmental strategy 
to address climate change and other 
environmental challenges. The strategy 
includes specific and measurable goals 
timed to 2030 that are science-based 
and aligned to the Paris Agreement on 
climate change. Cummins will report 
its performance against these goals in 
future Sustainability Progress Reports.
The strategy also includes the aspiration 
to be carbon neutral by 2050 and the 
company is already working on the 
technologies it will take to get there. Cummins’ New Power segment,  
for example, has emerged as a  
leader in battery-electric technology, 
producing systems for a growing  
number of school and transit buses, 
construction equipment and more.
New Power’s fuel cell technology is also 
developing quickly, powering a number 
of “firsts” in recent years, including 
the world’s first hydrogen-powered 
passenger train. The company is also 
developing electrolyzers to increase 
the supply of renewable hydrogen, 
addressing a significant obstacle to 
widespread adoption of this promising 
low-carbon fuel.Finally, Cummins has also been working 
to improve the diesel and natural gas 
engines that have been the backbone 
of the company’s business for the past 
100 years to reduce heat-trapping 
greenhouse gas (GHG) and other 
harmful emissions. Both technologies 
have become remarkably cleaner over 
the past 30 years, nearly eliminating 
nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate 
matter (PM) emissions, two major 
contributors to smog.
Merely replacing older diesel engines 
with today’s advanced diesel technology 
could significantly reduce GHGs.  
The Diesel Technology Forum, 
a not-for-profit dedicated to raising INNOVATION // 62
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTawareness about diesel technology, 
estimates replacing a single older diesel 
truck with a modern diesel powertrain 
could eliminate nearly 10 tons of GHG 
emissions. Cummins’ spark-ignited 
natural gas engines, meanwhile,  
produce emissions 90% below current 
U.S. EPA standards for PM and NOx  
and 16% below on GHGs.
While Cummins’ diesel and  
natural gas engines use fossil fuels,  
Cummins engineers believe additional 
GHG reductions are possible using 
those platforms, either through technical 
innovations or renewable, low-carbon 
fuels. While there are likely limits to the 
progress they can make on reducing 
GHGs, these technologies could be 
paired with low-carbon power systems 
in range-extending hybrids that serve  
as an important bridge to a carbon-
neutral future as the charging and 
refueling infrastructures develop for  
the new technologies. 
COLLABORATION IS CRITICAL
No single company, however, can 
decarbonize the commercial power 
industry by itself. There are tremendous 
research, development, demonstration 
and deployment costs involved. It’s true 
that some customers are embracing low-carbon technologies today, a 
significant number, though, will likely 
need help or some kind of incentive.
When the effort to reduce smog first 
began, governments set aggressive 
regulations that both provided targets  
for engine manufacturers and created a 
level playing field. In the United States, 
the federal government also provided 
incentives to encourage research and 
development and created public-private 
partnerships to test new ideas.
The commercialization of technologies 
developed under one of those 
partnerships known as SuperTruck 
will save 7.9 million gallons of diesel 
fuel per day and reduce GHGs as 
well. SuperTruck II was recently able 
to demonstrate an additional 50% 
reduction in carbon dioxide (CO2),  
a major greenhouse gas, from a 2009 
baseline and SuperTruck III will build  
on those improvements, with a focus  
on CO2 reducing technologies such  
as low-carbon fuels and hybridization.
While that’s a good start, it will take 
more to reach carbon neutrality. 
Cummins recently joined the CEO 
Climate Dialogue, a group made 
up of top companies and four leading 
environmental groups committed to advocating for climate action in the U.S. 
Congress. Among the group’s organizing 
principles is support for the government 
establishing a price on carbon to use 
the power of the market to help achieve 
the country’s carbon reduction goals in a 
“simple, coherent and efficient manner.”
A price on carbon would create a 
badly needed incentive for investing in 
both low-carbon technologies and the 
infrastructure to support them.
Cummins views the challenge of 
reaching a carbon-neutral future as an 
opportunity. It believes to win in the 
future, companies must understand how 
environmental challenges impact their 
stakeholders and lead the effort to solve 
those challenges through their actions, 
partnerships and advocacy. 
The company is now working on a 
product roadmap, to be released in  
the near future, defining the role of 
various Cummins power technologies  
in the company’s path to a zero 
emissions future.
The good news? That future is 
attainable if everyone works together — 
companies, customers, regulators and 
others. Cummins is committed to taking 
a leadership role to get there.SMOG REDUCTION COULD HOLD LESSONS FOR GHGS
Cummins engineers are thinking a lot these days about what the path to zero emissions 
might look like. In many ways a similar journey began about 30 years ago.
That’s when the industry began what would be a remarkable innovation in diesel 
engines, ultimately resulting in a 90% or more reduction in particulate matter (PM)  
and nitrogen oxides (NOx), two key contributors to smog.
To reduce smog, U.S. regulators established tough, clear and enforceable regulations 
that encouraged innovation. Engine manufacturers worked with colleges and 
universities on new technologies to achieve the tougher standards and government 
agencies established public-private partnerships to test those technologies and explore 
ways to make them affordable for customers. Finally, customers embraced the new 
technologies. Reductions in PM and NOx outside the U.S. would follow a similar path.
Reducing smog, like reducing greenhouse gases (GHGs), was too big for anyone 
to accomplish alone. But with government working in tandem with manufacturers, 
academia, customers and others, what many initially considered impossible was 
ultimately accomplished. 
Chart courtesy of Diesel Technology Forum.024681012
0.00.20.40.60.81.01.2
1988 1992 1998 2004 2010 • • • 2025NOx
PM
98% REDUCTION IN NOx98% REDUCTION IN PMCLEAN DIESEL PROGRESS 
Heavy-duty on-highwayINNOVATION // 63
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
SPECIAL REPORT
EMBRACING ‘NEW NORMAL’  
TO KEEP EMPLOYEES SAFE 
AND SUPPORT CUSTOMERSSUPPLY CHAIN //
Drawing on employee ingenuity from 
across the company, Cummins met 
the many challenges presented by the 
pandemic in 2020, including historic 
declines in production followed almost 
as quickly by record increases.
While rising infection rates in some  
parts of the world serve as a grim 
reminder that there is still much work 
ahead on COVID-19, it does not  
diminish the tremendous effort by 
Cummins employees, suppliers, and 
customers in 2020 to safely reopen  
and find new ways of working 
that protect people while reducing 
opportunities for the virus to spread.
In a matter of weeks in many  
instances, Cummins acted on the  
best recommendations of health  
experts to establish mandatory health 
checks and require masks before  
anyone could enter open Cummins 
facilities. The company reconfigured 
manufacturing floors to allow for social 
distancing and set up mask-making 
operations across Cummins, which 
produced 10 million masks for  
employee use in 2020.The company also provided those 
employees who could work from  
home with the tools to do it safely  
and effectively, and Cummins  
leveraged its emergency hotline to 
answer employee questions about  
the pandemic around-the-clock.
And that is just a partial list of the  
actions taken by the company.  
While 2020 at Cummins will  
undoubtedly be remembered for the 
pandemic, it should also be recalled  
as the year company employees from 
the manufacturing floor to the Board  
of Directors worked together to quickly 
get the company back on its feet and 
supporting customers performing critical 
tasks like delivering food and medicine. 
Cummins created three mask 
production sites that collectively 
produced 10 million masks for 
employees in 2020.
U.N. GOAL #17 
PARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOALS64
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
RESPONDING TO THE CRISIS
Cummins had a head start on dealing 
with the pandemic because of the 
company’s presence in China, including 
facilities in Wuhan where COVID-19 first 
emerged. Cummins, however, could not 
avoid the pandemic’s crippling impact 
when the virus spread and communities 
around the world began locking down.
As health experts developed 
recommendations to protect workers 
and limit transmission of the virus, 
manufacturing locations across 
Cummins partnered with the company’s 
Health, Safety and Environment function 
to quickly implement them. When it was 
impossible to reconfigure production 
lines to allow for social distancing, the 
company’s manufacturing organization 
erected barriers separating employees. 
Manufacturing facilities also enhanced 
cleaning protocols in addition to the 
social distancing measures, health 
checks and masks. 
Meanwhile, Cummins’ personnel worked 
with the company’s suppliers to re-start 
external supply chains and share best 
practices on re-opening and operating 
safely to the benefit of all.To support employees during the 
pandemic, Cummins also created a 
health and wellness component of 
the company’s Corporate Response 
Center to answer employee questions. 
Cummins expanded employee health 
care programs, increased access 
to testing through company clinics 
and telehealth programs, and widely 
promoted the counseling and leave 
options available to address mental 
health needs. 
Cummins Chairman and CEO  
Tom Linebarger said the company’s 
efforts demonstrated masks and  
social distancing are effective.  
That gave leaders confidence work  
could be conducted safely without 
causing the virus to spread as customer 
orders began picking up at a record 
pace in the latter half of 2020.
“I want to thank our employees all 
over the globe for their dedication to 
our company and to our customers,” 
Linebarger said when reporting 2020’s 
financial results earlier this year.  
“They continue to work safely and 
effectively through an incredibly 
challenging period, with unprecedented 
disruptions to global demand and 
supply, to their work processes,  
and to their daily lives.” SUPPLY CHAIN //
A Cummins employee works at 
the company’s Mississauga  
Fuel Cell and Hydrogen 
Technologies Campus in Canada. 10 MILLION
Masks produced in 2020 by Cummins  
to guard against the spread of  
COVID-19 in Cummins’ facilities.
146
Metric tons of filtration 
media made available  
to mask makers in and 
outside of the company, 
enough to produce more 
than 100 million masks.
2.7 MILLION
Amount in dollars of emergency grants issued 
by Cummins to partners with the ability to 
respond quickly to pandemic-related needs.
77  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  
Pages in Cummins Safe 
Work Playbook, which 
was shared publicly to 
help other companies 
reopen safely. 65
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTCARING ABOUT OTHERS
As impressive, the company  
never lost sight of Cummins’ value  
of caring during the pandemic.  
Company functions partnering to 
safely reopen and operate essential 
facilities during the pandemic produced 
Cummins’ Safe Work Playbook,  
a 77-page report (and growing) 
documenting what they had learned 
reopening facilities, with tips and 
procedures for everything from risk 
management to crisis communications.
Company leaders decided to post  
the document on Cummins’ public 
website, so other companies could 
access it and benefit from what 
Cummins had learned. The company 
also worked with groups outside 
Cummins to expand the playbook’s 
reach, including the Central Indiana 
Corporate Partnership and the National 
Safety Council’s Campbell Institute.
Cummins’ efforts didn’t stop there. 
When the pandemic started, the 
company re-evaluated its supply base 
and manufacturing capabilities to identify 
how Cummins could support healthcare professionals and essential workers who 
rely on personal protective equipment 
to do their jobs. Cummins Filtration, 
which designs and manufactures 
filtration products for diesel and natural 
gas powered equipment, used its filter 
technology to provide 146 metric tons  
of filtration media to mask manufacturers 
around the world, enough to produce 
more than 108 million masks to fight  
the spread of COVID-19.
In addition, the company partnered  
with 3M to produce 566,000 filters  
used in 3M’s powered air-purifying 
respirators (PAPR) used by health 
care professionals at risk of airborne 
pathogens. Equipment typically used 
to produce diesel engine filters instead 
manufactured the high-efficiency 
particulate filters used in 3M’s PAPRs.
It was one of several partnerships 
resulting in Cummins playing a key  
role in the production of equipment 
to help guard against the spread of 
COVID-19. The company also worked 
with DuPont to address the shortage  
of N95 respirator masks, using 
Cummins’ NanoNet® filter media.Finally, the company issued a record  
$22 million in community grants, 
including $2.7 million in emergency 
grants to community partners with the 
ability to respond quickly to pandemic-
related needs in communities where 
Cummins employees live and work 
around-the-world.     
THE BIG PICTURE
Cummins’ ability to not only respond  
to the ups and downs of the pandemic, 
but also address significant challenges 
faced by those responding to it is a 
testament to employees at all levels of 
the company. The ability of functions 
 to work collaboratively was critical  
as each brought unique skills that  
would prove important to Cummins’  
pandemic response.
The company’s performance in the midst 
of the pandemic also demonstrated 
Cummins’ pursuit of environmental, 
social and governance excellence,  
and its commitment to building stronger 
and more prosperous communities,  
pays dividends during the most 
challenging of times.CUMMINS TAKES STEPS TO HELP  
EMPLOYEES GET VACCINATED
Cummins is taking the 
same collaborative 
approach to helping 
employees get 
vaccinated for 
COVID-19, providing 
paid time-off to get the 
necessary shots and 
establishing on-site 
vaccine clinics where 
possible for employees, 
contingent workers  
and family members.
In some cases, the company pre-emptively obtained ultra-cold freezers to establish 
cold chain support, so clinics at Cummins’ U.S. locations could administer any  
of the approved vaccines made available by local health officials.
As of May 2021, clinics on-site at Cummins locations administered more than  
5,000 shots, including more than 2,000 second doses if required to complete  
the vaccine regimen. The company partnered with local hospitals and health  
departments to staff the clinics.
Cummins’ vaccine efforts didn’t stop there. The company launched an extensive 
education campaign to provide employees information on vaccines from medical  
experts, including Dr. Bob Chestnut, the company’s Chief Medical Director.
The company maintains the vaccine effort is a logical extension of Cummins’  
overriding priority – making its worksites as safe as possible.
SUPPLY CHAIN //66
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTCUMMINS SUPPLY 
CHAIN LIVES 
COMPANY VALUES
Cummins’ supply chain continued  
living the company’s values in 2020, 
working to protect the environment  
and human rights.
While the global pandemic dominated the year, the company’s manufacturing plants 
worked to continue progress on both critical concerns in 2020 in pursuit of Cummins’ 
mission to make people’s lives better by powering a more prosperous world.
ENVIRONMENT
The company’s manufacturing facilities have played a critical role in Cummins’ efforts 
to reduce the company’s use of water and energy, and increase its recycling rate.
Thirty-five Cummins sites ended 2020 achieving the company’s standard for zero 
disposal, including manufacturing locations in China, Germany, India, Mexico,  
the United Kingdom and the United States. The company’s goal had been 30 sites. 
Meanwhile, 16 locations achieved the company’s standard for water neutrality in  
water challenged areas. Cummins’ goal had been 15 sites.
Manufacturing locations also played a critical role in helping the company reach in 
2020 a 53% reduction in water use intensity (water use adjusted by hours worked) 
compared to a 2010 baseline. The company’s goal was a 50% reduction.While Cummins fell short of its principal 
goals in energy use and recycling, the 
company nevertheless made significant 
progress in both areas. Cummins raised 
its overall recycling rate to 93% in  
2020 from 90% in 2014 and achieved  
a 27% reduction in energy use intensity 
(energy use adjusted for hours worked) 
from a 19% reduction achieved in  
2014 when Cummins goal of a  
32% reduction was established. Manufacturing locations are the biggest 
users of energy and water and handle 
the most waste.
The company’s manufacturing facilities 
have been steadily adding high efficiency 
LED lighting and other improvements 
such as regenerative dynamometers, 
also known as regen dynos, that can 
capture the energy used by an engine  
 in a test cell and convert it into  
electricity to help power a facility.
The dynos also use less water in the 
cooling of engines being tested in 
Cummins’ facilities.SUPPLY CHAIN // 
A Cummins employee works at the  
Columbus MidRange Engine Plant.  
This and other plants played a key  
role in Cummins maintaining its 
commitment to the environment.67
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT93
THIRTY-FIVE
Cummins sites, primarily 
manufacturing locations, 
achieving the company’s 
standard for zero  
disposal status.
80Percentage of top 
suppliers required to 
sign that they comply 
with the Cummins 
Supplier Code of 
Conduct.Finally, manufacturing locations have 
also played a key role in the company’s 
goal to make greater use of renewable 
power. Cummins ended 2020 with  
45 sites with solar installations, the  
vast majority at manufacturing locations 
in Belgium, China, India, Mexico, the 
United Kingdom, and the United States.SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE
The environment is also a point of 
emphasis for Cummins in its interactions 
with company suppliers. Suppliers must 
comply with Cummins’ Supplier Code  
of Conduct and its sixth principle  
to “Protect the environment and 
conserve natural resources.”
“We expect Cummins suppliers and 
their subcontractors to comply with 
all applicable environmental laws, 
regulations and standards,” the code 
states. The top 80% of suppliers  
must agree in writing that they are  
in compliance with the code.
The company’s Supplier Portal  
includes an Environmental Stewardship 
section to help suppliers improve their 
operations environmentally, including 
“Green Supply Chain Principles & 
Supplier Expectations.”  
“As Cummins desires to co-operate and 
collaborate with its suppliers, our supply 
base should make a similar commitment 
to work with its suppliers to create a 
process through which environmental 
improvements and achievements can  
be shared upstream and downstream,” 
the supply chain principles state.HUMAN RIGHTS
Both Cummins’ Supplier Code of 
Conduct and the company’s Human 
Rights policy prohibit forced labor  
of any kind including child labor,  
prison labor and human trafficking.
The company’s Human Rights policy 
states the company will take steps  
to “ensure our suppliers and partners  
that are located in high-risk locations 
and/or that may be more exposed  
to human trafficking risk due to the 
nature of the industry in which they 
operate adopt relevant measures  
to mitigate such risks.”
“We insist that our suppliers uphold 
these principles and we are committed 
to working with all suppliers and other 
partners as they undertake similar 
assessments of their own business,”  
the supplier code states.
The company’s Human Rights policy 
was adopted in December of 2017. 
While it included many of the same 
provisions as the Supplier Code of 
Conduct, company leaders wanted  
to be sure it was clear where the 
company stood on this important  
issue and go into a little more  
depth than the code allowed.EYES OPEN AUDITS
As stated earlier, the top 80% of 
Cummins’ suppliers have to sign  
that they are in compliance with  
the code. In addition, the company 
checks for compliance among its 
suppliers through Eyes Open Audits. 
These audits are regularly performed 
when purchasing and other personnel 
visit suppliers to review contract 
performance. They look specifically 
for problems in worker health, worker 
safety, protecting Cummins information, 
hazardous or unsafe materials, forced 
labor and child labor, as well as issues 
pertaining to the treatment of others. 
While there were 391 Eyes Open  
Audits completed in 2019, 2020 audits 
were severely impacted by COVID-19.  
The company significantly restricted 
travel for most of 2020. While Cummins 
personnel in some cases conducted 
quality checks virtually that platform 
did not work for the Eyes Open Audits, 
which require the ability to see all of a 
supplier’s operations.EMPLOYEE  
ENGAGEMENT
MORE THAN 
1,000 
employees across the globe 
serve as Environmental 
Champions, trained to look 
for inefficient practices 
or equipment that can be 
replaced to either reduce 
the use of water or energy 
or increase recycling of 
waste. The company 
believes the champions 
know their plants best  
and are most qualified  
to look for improvements.  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  SUPPLY CHAIN // 
Percentage recycling 
rate for Cummins in 
2020, primarily led 
by the company’s 
manufacturing sites.
Eyes Open Audits 
completed in 2019, 
before the pandemic  
severely limited  
audits in 2020.39168
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTSUPPORTING 
CUSTOMERS THROUGH 
DIGITAL SOLUTIONS
Since its founding, Cummins has  
paired innovation and technology  
to drive improvement in every  
function, including how the  
company supports customers. 
PrevenTech Mining® and RemoteConnect 
are just two examples of how Cummins 
is using digital solutions to support 
customers. The tools seamlessly 
integrate live expert assistance to 
provide customized recommendations 
to improve operations using big data, 
artificial intelligence, advanced analytics 
and the internet of things, the growing 
network of devices embedded with 
software and other technologies.
PrevenTech Mining® is a digital  
solution that turns noise into action  
by monitoring engine data remotely  
to provide early detection and  diagnosis of equipment issues. 
PrevenTech Mining® has resulted  
in increased performance, reliability, 
safety, operating efficiency and  
uptime – the amount of time  
equipment stays in operation.
RESULTS ORIENTED
Today, PrevenTech is monitored by 
dedicated team members centrally 
located throughout North America 
across four time zones monitoring 
multiple global market segments  
24 hours a day. Agents are highly skilled 
on the Cummins products they monitor CUSTOMER SUPPORT // 
Cummins is putting digital solutions to work to support 
customers in a world that’s increasingly interconnected.  
(Editor’s Note: This photo was taken before the pandemic.)CUSTOMER  
SUPPORT  
ACCESS POINTS
Cummins Care, the company’s 
primary customer support function, 
can be reached:
BY PHONE: 1-800-CUMMINS  
(North America)
ON THE WEB: care.cummins.com 69
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTand assist customers with complex field 
issues, providing them with quality and 
development alerts. Agents are a conduit 
to engineering support for emerging 
technical issues, step-three mitigation 
and product development.
The results can be remarkable. 
Responding to a previously undetectable 
failure mode issue, Cummins experts 
using PrevenTech data uncovered a 
5-year-old mystery. Once the issue  
was resolved, it saved the customer 
more than $592,000 and increased 
production by more than 150 hours.  
Originally available throughout North 
America, RemoteConnect is now being 
deployed globally, enabling business 
continuity, and allowing Cummins’ 
subject matter experts and field users 
the ability to provide seamless support  
to customers. 
Each RemoteConnect kit includes  
a cellular hot spot with a secured  
private cellular network, diagnostic  
tools, remote camera, and smart safety 
glasses. The smart glasses allow 
an expert with Cummins Care, the 
company’s primary customer support 
function, to see what the on-site  
 
 technician is seeing in real-time,  
enabling the technician and expert  
to collaborate to resolve an issue. 
HELPFUL DURING PANDEMIC
RemoteConnect continues to show 
improved repair efficiency, reduced 
customer downtime and improved 
satisfaction. The kits have now been 
placed in more than 265 Cummins 
global locations.
The tool was especially helpful during  
the COVID-19 pandemic in early  
2020 when travel was restricted to  
stop the spread of the virus. In one 
month, from March 2020 to April  
2020, Cummins saw a 100% growth  
in RemoteConnect sessions.
This resulted in significant customer 
downtime avoidance, an 87% reduction 
in on-site field repair activities, and  
a more than $90,000 reduction in  
travel costs as experts who normally 
would have traveled to a location 
for a repair were able to join by 
RemoteConnect instead.
Cummins has long emphasized 
customer support. Putting digital  
tools to work to assist customers  
is merely the latest example. CUMMINS EXPANDS TECHNICAL  
TRAINING TO SUPPORT CUSTOMERS
Cummins will not let anything get in the 
way of providing customers with topflight 
technical support – even a pandemic.
As global restrictions associated with 
COVID-19 hindered the company’s capacity 
to provide in-person technical training for 
its employees, Cummins created a more 
sustainable solution. Through remote 
instructor-led training, the company can 
now train four to six times the number of 
technicians in a remote environment when 
compared to in-person instructor led classes. 
With the launch of Cummins remote 
instructor led training classes, Cummins has 
built a training delivery network with more 
than 59 remote training kits deployed globally 
(28 within North America). These kits include 
tri-pod mounted cameras and smart glasses 
that can provide multiple angles of view 
throughout the training experience.
Students can control two separate tripod 
mounted cameras with zoom capabilities 
providing a remote experience with close  
and wide-angle views as needed, ensuring 
the best learning experience available.  
Using Cummins Remote Training Kits and  
a Zoom platform for remote learning, 
students learn virtually with remote  
control and navigation of Cummins’  
service information and diagnostic tools  
such as QuickServe Online, Cummins 
INSITE, Guidanz, and InPower. 
 
 Cummins Service Training is also looking at 
other possibilities to enhance the learning  
experience by piloting the use of augmented 
reality. Pilot projects are being conducted on 
both engine and power generation platforms.
MULTI-TIERED LEARNING
Along with the launch of Cummins remote 
instructor led classes, Cummins is now 
offering multiple levels of training for its 
full-service distributor and dealer locations. 
Each of these four levels of training provide 
warranty capabilities aligned with the various 
roles and technician-experience levels in 
service environments. 
As a technician’s role and experience level 
progresses throughout their career, Cummins 
is now able to provide the right training at the 
right time, enabling better learning retention 
and success in providing an efficient and 
accurate repair on Cummins products.
This new strategy provides the opportunity 
for locations to take advantage of a tailored 
training plan specific to their technicians; 
targeting the completion of training in 
alignment to the scope of work performed  
at a particular service location. 
Additionally, through this tiered approach to 
Cummins Service Training, repair locations 
will be capable of expanding their Cummins 
service capabilities by training additional 
technicians on Cummins products with 
a reduced investment, and without the 
requirement of travel to complete training.265+
RemoteConnect kits deployed globally to 
connect Cummins experts with technicians 
working in the field to support customers.
365
Days per year PrevenTech is 
monitored by a centralized 
team of highly skilled 
experts to assist with 
complex issues in the  
field across multiple  
global market segments, 
24-hours per day.
4,261+
Hours of total customer downtime saved  
in 2020 utilizing RemoteConnect support.  KEY NUMBERS IN 2020  CUSTOMER SUPPORT // 70
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTCOMPANY REBOUNDS 
AFTER HISTORIC 
DECLINE CAUSED 
BY PANDEMIC
In what can only be described as  
a roller coaster year, 2020 included 
historic financial highs and lows  
related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Revenues for 2020 were $19.8 billion, 
16% lower than 2019. Sales in North 
America declined 21% and international 
revenues declined 7%. Sales declined 
in all major regions except China, where 
demand for trucks and construction 
equipment reached record levels.
Conditions improved considerably, 
however, in the fourth quarter of the year. 
Cummins had revenues of $5.8 billion, 
a 5% increase over the same quarter in 
2019. It was the first time the company 
had a year-over-year sales increase since 
the second quarter of 2019.“We faced many challenges in 2020 
driven by the severe global impact of  
the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Cummins 
Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger.  
“I want to thank all of our employees  
for their dedication to our company  
and our customers.”
EBITDA for the year was $3.1 billion 
(15.7% of sales) compared to $3.7 billion 
(15.8% of sales) excluding restructuring 
in 2019. Net income attributable to 
Cummins for the full year was $1.8 billion 
compared to $2.4 billion in 2019.Cummins increased its cash  
dividend for the 11th straight year  
and returned a total of $1.4 billion  
to shareholders in the form of  
dividends and share repurchases.
The company experienced both its 
largest decline in revenues (Q1-Q2) and 
the largest increase (Q2-Q3) in company 
history in 2020. The pandemic resulted 
in facility shutdowns for Cummins,  
its suppliers and its customers.  
In order to maintain the company’s 
financial strength, Cummins leadership 
temporarily reduced management  
and employee salaries. 
As conditions improved and demand 
began to recover, Cummins facilities  
re-opened, and leadership reinstated  
full salary benefits for employees.  
The company in 2019 took many  
steps to control costs in anticipation  
of declining market conditions  
unrelated to the pandemic.  
Those steps would help position 
Cummins when the full force of  
the pandemic hit. 
Despite the pandemic, Cummins 
continued launching new products 
across its business segments in 2020 
and applications that perform more efficiently while reducing their impact  
on the environment. These included: 
 »Shipments of the company’s X12 
heavy-duty truck engine to Freightliner 
for use in its Cascadia day and sleeper 
cab models and Cummins’ B6.7 
medium-duty truck engine to Mack  
for its MD Series platform. 
 »Shipments of the company’s next 
generation Bharat Stage VI (BSVI) 
compliant aftertreatment systems  
in India.
 »In the battery electric market, 
Cummins delivered 147 fully-electric 
powertrains to Blue Bird in 2020  
for use in the school bus market,  
and 19 powertrains to GILLIG for  
use in the transit bus market.  The company’s products are now 
powering over 250 school buses, 
which are in service today in 
addition to transit buses operating in 
municipalities around North America.
 »Cummins now has more than  
2,000 fuel cell installations as  
well as more than 500 electrolyzer 
installations and commissioned the 
largest proton exchange membrane 
(PEM) electrolysis plant in the world  
in Becancour, Canada, for Air Liquide.
 »The company formed the NPROXX 
joint venture to provide customers 
with high-pressure tank and storage 
solutions in the hydrogen and  
natural gas markets.FINANCIAL // 
CUMMINS  
SALES  
BY YEAR2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015$23.6 billion$19.8 billion
$23.8 billion
$20.4 billion
$17.5 billion
$19.1 billion71
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTENGINE  
BUSINESS2020 REVENUE BY PRODUCT 2020 REVENUE BY APPLICATION
DISTRIBUTION2020 REVENUE BY PRODUCT 2020 REVENUE BY REGION
COMPONENTS2020 REVENUE BY BUSINESS 2020 REVENUE BY APPLICATION
POWER  
SYSTEMS2020 REVENUE BY PRODUCT 2020 SALES BY REGION32%
ENGINE
15%
POWER SYSTEMS24%
COMPONENTS29%
DISTRIBUTION7% 
ASIA PACIFIC
58%
U.S. & CANADA11%
EUROPE & CIS2% 
MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA
14%
CHINA3%
INDIA
5% 
LATIN AMERICA & MEXICO57% ON-HIGHWAY 
15%  OFF-HIGHWAY  
28%  PARTS & SERVICE
0 10 20 30 40 50 6066% US & CANADA 
5%  CHINA 
2%  INDIA 
11%  EUROPE/CIS 
3%  MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA 
11% ASIA PACIFIC 
2% LATIN AMERICA & MEXICO
40% US & CANADA 
14%  CHINA 
7%  INDIA 
14%  EUROPE/CIS 
8%  MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA 
10% ASIA PACIFIC 
7% LATIN AMERICA & MEXICO44% EMISSION SOLUTIONS 
20%  FILTRATION 
18%  TURBO TECHNOLOGIES 
13%  FUEL SYSTEMS &  
 ELECTRONICS 
5%  AUTOMATED  
 TRANSMISSIONS2019 REVENUE BY MARKETING TERRITORY
2019 REVENUE BY SEGMENTHEAVY-DUTY TRUCK
MEDIUM-DUTY TRUCK & BUS
LIGHT-DUTY AUTO
OFF-HIGHWAY33%
26%
19%
22%
PARTS
POWER GENERATIONENGINES
INDUSTRIALPOWER GEN
GENERATOR TECHNOLOGIESSERVICE
PARTS40%
55%18%
17%24%
8%18%
20%0 10 20 30 40 50CUMMINS ENGINES 50%
OTHER ENGINE MANUFACTURERS
AFTERMARKET26%
24%FINANCIAL // 72
2020 CUMMINS SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTCONTACTS
BLAIR CLAFLIN (EDITOR)
Director – Sustainability Communications 
301 E. Market St. 
Indianapolis, IN 46204 
blair.claflin@cummins.com
JAMES WIDE (ASSISTANT EDITOR)
Copy Editor, External Communications 
301 E. Market St. 
Indianapolis, IN 46204 
™ Products mentioned in this report are subject  
 to copyright and trademark protections.
This report was posted in June 2021.Cummins Inc. 
Box 3005 
Columbus, Indiana 47202-3005 
U.S.A.
1-800-CUMMINS™ (1-800-286-6467)  
cummins.com
©2021 Cummins Inc.CONTRIBUTORS  
TO THIS REPORT
Meredith Sanders (designer),  
Heather Abshire, Jordan Anderson, 
Lyndsey Bannick, Fernanda Beraldi, 
Carolyn Butler-Lee, Cierra Boyd,  
Marcya Carter, Karen Cecil, Bob 
Chestnut, David Clark, Laurie Counsel, 
Susan Criswell, Nathaniel Cullen, Mark 
Dhennin, William Fak, Jasmin French, 
Manuel Gaitan, Cortney Hamment, 
Rachel Hardwick, Jennifer Harris, Dennis 
Heathfield, Toni Hickey, Amber Hughes,  
Brian Jaskot, Miguel Jasso, Jack Kienzler, 
Brijesh Krishnan, Ramona Kudla,  
Anna Lintereur, Julie Liu, David McNeil, 
Zack McCrory, Jon Mills, Katie Moreau, 
Brian Mormino, Natalie Murphy, Swetal 
Patankar, John Pendray, Brian Sanders,  
Sumedha Sharma, Avril Schutte,  
Robert Simmons, Chris Shieldsmith, 
Mark Sifferlen, Michelle Stokes,  
Immanuel Umoren, Shelby Watts,  
Erica White, Katie Zarich
 2020 
SUSTAINABILITY  
PROGRESS 
REPORT