SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2012-2013
Innovative. Engaged. Sustainable.
Remanufacturing plants  
like this one in Juárez, Mexico,  
use innovative techniques to keep 
parts and engines in service and 
out of landfills. Learn more about 
innovation at Cummins on page 14.
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Cummins’ 2012-2013 Sustainability Report 
is presented in the spirit of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI). The goal of the GRI is to develop a consistent way for 
companies around the world to voluntarily 
report on the environmental, social and economic components of their business.
The Coalition for Environmentally 
Responsible Economies created the GRI  in 1997 and works today in collaboration 
with the United Nations Environment 
Program and the U.N. Secretary  General’s Global Compact to promote  
the importance of sustainability reporting.
Cummins takes a broad view of 
sustainability, including such things  
as safety, diversity, leadership and 
governance along with environmental practices, community involvement and 
financial performance. The Company 
believes that it can’t be sustainable  without a firm financial foundation that 
enables investment in everything from 
product development to building  stronger communities.
As a global company, Cummins  
wants to make a difference for all of its stakeholders, today and in the future.  
This report was published in May 2013  
and is the Company’s 10th annual edition.
 
 CONTRIBUTORS
This report relies on the writing, editing, 
design and technical expertise of many 
Cummins employees. Contributors this 
year included: Marsha Allamanno, Cory Brandt, Carole Casto, Karen Cecil, David Clark, Sarah Clark, Laurie Counsel, Anna 
Dickerson, Roe East, Bill Fak, Scott Field, 
Joy Fischer, Angela Flood, John Forte, Emily Foster, Clint Garrett, David Goggin, Elena Grimm, Colleen Hahn, Elliot Hayden, Sheah Hilton, Molly Howard, Joann Jones, 
Melina Kennedy, David Koeberlein, Philip 
Kuhl, Christine Kuo, Carol Lavengood, Yangnan Liu, Annie Mack, Sara McAninch, Zack McCrory, Paul Miller, Jon Mills, Steven 
Nendick, Andy Pajakowski, Pramod Palat, 
Brian Pence, S. Ravichandran, Alan Resnik, Meredith Sanders, Stephen Sanders, Rosann Scatttoloni, Ernie Smith, Grant Suchotzky, Todd Swingle, Janet Williams, 
Matt Weilhamer, Blair West, Stacy Wyatt 
and Jackie Yeager.
ABOUT THE COVER
Cummins Fuel Systems’ plant in Juárez, 
Mexico, restores nearly a million injectors, 
pumps and Electronic Control Modules each year, using innovative technology to return them to useful life. Cummins’ Karina Meza Sosa holds a fuel injector that the 
plant is remanufacturing. Read more  
about the innovative things happening  all across Cummins on page 14. INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  3INTRODUCTION 
Letter from the chairman ....................... 2
Cummins around the world .................... 4
Who we are ........................................... 6
How we do it ......................................... 7
Our history ............................................. 9
Vision, mission,  
values and principles ........................... 10
Our recognition .................................... 12
INNOVATION
Keeping the spirit of innovation alive .... 14
Problem solving through innovation ..... 20
Cummins’ innovative giants ................. 22
The future of innovation at Cummins .... 24
ENVIRONmENT
‘SuperTruck’ off to impressive start ...... 26
Products ...................................... 28
Early to market for ISX15 and  stationary diesel generators ................. 40
New London buses celebrate  the past, look to the future ................... 41
Cummins innovates to reduce  global waste footprint .......................... 42
Practices ...................................... 44
Mexico plants making  wise use of water ................................. 53
Practicing environmental  stewardship around the world .............. 54
Strategic approach to energy saves millions for Jamestown, N.Y., plant ...... 56Partnerships and policy ............... 58
Fleet reduces global warming  with natural gas engines ...................... 64
Charting a plan for  environmental sustainability ................. 65
CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY
Building stronger communities  
in record numbers ............................... 66
TEC program addresses skills deficit around the world ....................... 70
Environmental Challenge  is a global success .............................. 71
Hope blossoms at  the Dandelion School .......................... 78
Coalition for progress ........................... 80
Students take a path less traveled ....... 82
CES puts skills to work  designing a better cook stove .............. 84
Born to serve ....................................... 86
Supporting employee passions  and skills through philanthropy ............. 88
Foundation leadership ......................... 93
SAfETY
Health and safety key to  Cummins’ sustainability ....................... 94
Engine business tackles  distracted driving among teens ............ 97
Cummins holds first Company-wide  Ergo Cup competition .......................... 98
Ergonomics in action ........................... 99
Web tool helps put safety first ............ 100EmPLOYEE 
RELATIONS
The power of diversity  
and inclusion ..................................... 102
Pursuing diversity in India ................... 104
Employee groups create  inclusive work environment ................ 106
Diversity Procurement goes global ..... 108
Developing new leaders  key to sustainability ............................ 110
GOVERNANCE
New code guides ethical behavior ..... 112
Board exercises  independent judgment ....................... 116
Managing risks,  keeping employees secure ................ 118
Ensuring Cummins’ voice is heard ..... 120
fINANCIAL
Global economic slowdown  slows Cummins ................................. 122
Ram-Cummins partnership  celebrates major milestones .............. 124
Putting customers first  in wake of Sandy ............................... 126
Committed to a global  supply chain ...................................... 128Table of contents2  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
INTRODUCTION
Today, our Company is the only 
independent diesel engine maker that remains from the more than 100 other 
original Diesel licensees. And the continued 
innovation driven by the engagement of our more than 46,000 employees across the globe will secure the long term sustainability 
of our Company into the future.
This year’s Sustainability Report starts out 
by appropriately celebrating Cummins’ innovative giants over time – such as Clessie, Dr. Julius Perr and Dr. Alyn Lyn – 
who collectively laid the foundation for a 
lot of our success today. Their stories are inspiring and remind us of the tremendous contributions they made, embedding 
innovation in everything they did to meet 
existing customer needs and earn new customers by helping ensure their success. 
I’m pleased to report that their legacy lives 
on. You’ll see in this year’s report that our 
heroes of innovation can be found all across 
Cummins every day and everywhere, from the engineers designing our products, to the shop floor employees making it happen 
in our facilities across the world, to office 
employees serving every business unit  and function, and everywhere in between.  They are producing the best products, delivering outstanding customer service, 
shrinking the Company’s environmental 
footprint and building stronger communities around the world.
We define innovation, one of Cummins’  
six core values, as using the “creative 
ingenuity necessary to make us better, faster, first.” Here are just a few examples  of the kinds of innovation stories that  you’ll find in this year’s report:
 »Our Corporate Responsibility Environmental Challenge initiative  where teams of Cummins employees  join together using their creativity,  
skills and talents to carry out  
community involvement projects  to improve the environment. 
 »Our Health, Safety and Environment employees’ leadership in finding ways  
to reduce the amount of solid waste 
created at our facilities around the world, which has resulted in recycling almost  90 percent of the waste that the 
Company creates. Letter from the chairman
“Innovative. Engaged. Sustainable.” The title of this  
year’s 2012-2013 Sustainability Report describes our 
Company well. In fact, Cummins was founded on innovation 
94 years ago when Clessie Cummins first obtained a license 
to use Rudolf Diesel’s technology and then had the ingenuity 
and vision to build on Diesel’s work over time.INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  3 »The superior customer service that our 
employees along the East Coast of the United States delivered during Super 
Storm Sandy in the fall of 2012. In many 
cases, they put their customers’ needs first at a time when many of their own homes were cold, dark and wet.
 »Our Safety and IT staffs’ joint work to create a new web tool that enables employees to easily record the safety problems they discover and resolve.  Not only does the tool encourage 
employees to make a personal 
commitment to safety, it increases  best practice sharing to avoid  unsafe situations. 
 »Our India employees’ efforts to  create innovative ways to open up additional economic opportunities  within Cummins for women, promoting another Company core value, diversity. 
This year’s report also looks ahead  to the future of technical innovation at Cummins. Over the past 20 years, much of our innovation has been tied closely to 
meeting increasingly stringent air emissions 
regulations around the world. As engine emissions approach near-zero levels in mature markets, our teams must be thinking about the next big innovation  
10 or 20 years down the line. To this end, we are launching a campaign 
across Cummins in 2013 to promote innovation and better engage our 
employees to See the Future First  
and Beat the Competition to It!
™
Looking forward, our customers will continue to depend on Cummins to lead in innovation and deliver the best products 
and services to meet both their spoken and 
unspoken needs. Our ongoing commitment to innovate and engage in everything we do will ensure our customers’ long term 
success and ultimately the sustainability 
of our Company for all of our stakeholders now and into the future. 
As Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  
it is an honor and privilege to lead a 
Company with a rich legacy of innovation 
and a bright future ahead, thanks to the commitment and dedication of the best employees in the world. I hope you enjoy 
our 2012-2013 Sustainability Report. 
 
 
 
 
 
Tom Linebarger Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Cummins Inc.
“Our ongoing commitment to innovate and engage  
in everything we do will ensure our customers’  
long term success and ultimately the sustainability  
of our Company for all of our stakeholders now  
and into the future.”
TOm LINEBARGER 
CHAIRMAN AND CEO
INTRODUCTION
4  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
INTRODUCTION
This map includes Cummins plants,  
offices and distributors.Cummins 
around the world
It was a busy 2012-2013  
for Cummins. Here’s a 
look at just some of the 
developments across the globe over the past year.
BRAzIL
UNITED kINGDOmANGOLA
Huddersfield – Deputy Prime Minister Nick 
Clegg visited Cummins Turbo Technologies on 
Jan. 17, 2013, to tour the Engine Waste Heat 
Recovery Research Programme. The British government awarded the initiative a £1.478 million grant to push the technical boundaries 
of what’s already been achieved in the field.UNITED kINGDOm
Seymour – Members of the crew from the boat  
the Time Bandit on the reality television show  
“The Deadliest Catch” toured several Cummins 
facilities in Southern Indiana including the Seymour Engine Plant in June 2012. The Hillstrand family was replacing the old engines on their crab fishing boat 
with two new QSK19 engines.UNITED STATES
Itatiba – Site preparation continued on a 
new Cummins campus in Brazil in 2012. 
A water pipeline has been extended to 
the site that will be home to Cummins Power Generation and a Cummins Global Logistics Distribution Center. A formal 
groundbreaking is planned for July 2013.
BRAzILSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  5
INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION
Wuxi – Wuxi Cummins Turbo Technologies 
Co. Ltd. (Wuxi CTT) produced its 7-millionth 
turbocharger in December of 2012. Plant 
leaders held a small ceremony to celebrate the achievement. CHINA
Cummins announced in 
January 2013, that Australia 
would be the first market in 
the world to offer the ISXe5 heavy-duty truck engine.  The engine meets Euro  
5 emissions regulations  
through Cummins’ proven SCR technology.
AUSTRALIA
Luanda – Cummins Angola Lda  
officially opened its doors for business on  
Nov. 15, 2012. The joint venture partnership 
is ideally situated to develop significant power generation, mining, marine and filtration opportunities in Angola.
ANGOLA
Doha – Less than a year after it started business  
in January 2012, Cummins Qatar LLC held 
its first Community Involvement Team activity. 
Thirty-four of Cummins Qatar’s 37 employees helped clean up one of the most visited seashores in Qatar on Nov. 23, 2012. QATAR
Phaltan – The fifth facility at the Cummins 
Megasite, the Phaltan MidRange Upfit Center, 
was inaugurated on March 26, 2013, by 
Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger and Anant Talaulicar, Managing Director, Cummins India. The state-of-the-art facility is designed to 
manufacture 80 engines per day in two shifts.
INDIA
London – Cummins played a significant  
role in the Summer Olympics in 2012. 
The International Media Center in the heart 
of London was equipped with a Cummins natural gas generator for backup power and a significant number of the 30,000 Cummins-
powered buses in the country ferried fans to 
and from the games. UNITED kINGDOm
UNITED kINGDOmQATAR
CHINAINTRODUCTION
6  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013WORLD HEADQUARTERS
500 Jackson Street 
Columbus, Ind., 47201fOUNDED IN 1919  
WEB SITE 
www.cummins.comWho we are
EmPLOYEES
Worldwide, approximately  
46,000 people. 
More than 60 percent of the 
Company’s employees are located outside the U.S.CUSTOmERS
The Company’s customers are located in approximately  
190 countries and territories that  
Cummins reaches through a network of more than  
600  company-owned and independent distributor  
locations and approximately  6,500  dealer locations.fORTUNE 500 RANkING (2013)
160STOCk SYmBOL (traded on NYSE) 
CmI
SALES / EARNINGS
 
 Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of 
complementary business units that design, manufacture, 
distribute and service engines and related technologies, 
including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, 
emission solutions and electrical power generation systems.
In 2012, Cummins earned $1.65 billion on revenues of 
$17.3 billion.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  7How we do it
Cummins is organized into four business units:
CUmmINS ENGINE BUSINESS  The Engine Business manufactures and markets a  
complete line of diesel and natural gas-powered engines for on-highway and off-highway  
use. Markets include heavy- and medium-duty trucks, buses, light-duty trucks and industrial  
uses such as agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas and military equipment.
INTRODUCTION
COmPONENTS BUSINESS 
Cummins Emission Solutions designs and manufactures exhaust aftertreatment  
technology and solutions for the medium- and heavy-duty, and high-horsepower engine markets.
Cummins filtration designs and builds heavy-duty air, fuel, hydraulic  
and lube filtration, chemicals and exhaust system technology products.
Cummins fuel Systems manufactures new fuel systems.Cummins Turbo Technologies designs and builds  
turbochargers to boost engine power and related products.
Cummins Electronics designs and procures electronic  
hardware, develops base controls software and tools,  and rebuilds Electronic Control Modules.
CUmmINS DISTRIBUTION BUSINESS  Cummins Distribution sells and 
services the full range of Cummins products for over 20 application segments in over 190 countries around the globe. CUmmINS POWER GENERATION BUSINESS  Power Gen is a global provider of 
power generation systems, components and services in standby power, distributed power generation, as well as auxiliary power in mobile applications. It also provides 
a full range of services including long-term operation and maintenance contracts  
and turnkey and temporary power solutions.
8  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
In addition to being a tireless innovator,  
Clessie Cummins was a promotional  
genius, making cross-country trips on cars,  
buses and trucks to demonstrate the power  and durability of diesel engines. He even 
sponsored race cars at the Indianapolis  
Motor Speedway powered by diesel engines.
BELOW  J. Irwin Miller was a visionary  
leader whose views on diversity, corporate 
responsibility and ethics are still part of  how Cummins does business today.
INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  9The Company was founded in Columbus, 
Ind., in 1919 as the Cummins Engine 
Company, for its namesake Clessie Lyle Cummins. Cummins was among the first 
to see the commercial potential of an 
unproven engine technology invented  two decades earlier by Rudolph Diesel.
After a decade of fits and starts,  
a stroke of marketing genius by Clessie Cummins (page 20) helped save the 
Company. Cummins mounted a diesel 
engine in a used Packard limousine  and on Christmas Day in 1929 took 
businessman W.G. Irwin for a ride in 
America’s first diesel-powered automobile. 
 Irwin’s much needed infusion of cash  
helped fuel a number of speed and endurance records in the coming years  
that demonstrated the engine’s power  
and durability.
J. Irwin Miller, great-nephew of W.G.  
Irwin, became general manager in 1934  
and went on to lead the Company to international prominence over the next  
four decades. Cummins would earn its 
first profit in 1937 and soon developed a reputation for high quality products and  
a unique nationwide service organization.
As the Company continued to grow in  
the United States, Cummins also began 
looking beyond its traditional borders. 
Under Miller’s leadership, the Company expanded into Brazil, India and China in  
the 1960s and 1970s, far ahead of other 
U.S. based companies.
The Company eventually expanded into the 
power generation business while growing 
its reputation as a technology leader, producing cleaner running engines to meet 
increasingly stringent emissions regulations. 
Today, Cummins’ customers are located 
in approximately 190 countries that the 
Company reaches through a network 
of more than 600 Company-owned and independent distributor locations and 
approximately 6,500 dealer locations.Our history
Cummins is a global Fortune 500 company that 
operates and serves customers around the world 
while maintaining strong ties to its Indiana home.
INTRODUCTION
10  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013VALUES
INTEGRITY 
Strive to do what is right and what we say we will do.
INNOVATION 
Apply the creative ingenuity necessary to make us  better, faster, first.
DELIVER SUPERIOR RESULTS 
Exceed expectations consistently.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
Serve and improve the communities in which we live.
DIVERSITY 
Embrace the diverse perspectives of all people  
and honor both with dignity and respect.
GLOBAL INVOLVEmENT 
Seek a world view and act without boundaries.STRATEGIC PRINCIPLES
Leverage Complementary Businesses 
Cummins is a family of complementary businesses that create value for our 
customers by leveraging relationships  
and applying innovative technology  
across business boundaries.
Increase Shareholder Value 
Cummins’ financial success is measured  
by growth in shareholder value. We will 
focus on ROE / ROANA and Earnings 
Growth (not Revenue Growth) as the principal drivers of shareholder value.
Seek Profitable Growth 
Cummins will seek profitable growth by 
leveraging our assets and capabilities to 
grow in market segments with favorable 
industry dynamics and where Cummins  
can establish an advantage.
Relentlessly Pursue Cost Leadership 
Cummins will pursue an operational  strategy of cost leadership.
Lead in Critical Technologies 
Cummins will be the market leader in 
technologies most critical to our customers’ 
success and our Company’s performance.
Create the Right Work Environment 
Cummins will assure that the physical  
and cultural work environment is  
conducive to excellent performance  and continuous improvement.mISSION 
We unleash the Power of Cummins by:
 »Motivating people to act like owners,  
working together.
 »Exceeding customer expectations  by always being the first to market  with the best products.
 »Partnering with our customers  to make sure they succeed.
 »Demanding that everything we do leads  to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment.
 »Creating wealth for all stakeholders.
PERSONALITY
Decisive. Driven to win.  
Agile. Passionate. Caring.VISION 
Making people’s lives better by  
unleashing the Power of Cummins.Vision, mission,  
values and principlesINTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  11CUmmINS OPERATING SYSTEm
The Cummins Operating System helps 
develop common practices and approaches 
to improve customer satisfaction. 
1 Put the customer first  
and provide real value.
2 Synchronize flows (material,  physical and information).
3 Design quality in every  step of the process.
4 Involve people and  promote team work.
5 Ensure equipment and tools  are available and capable.
6 Create functional excellence.
7 Establish the right environment.
8 Treat preferred suppliers as partners.
9 Follow common problem- solving techniques.
10 Use Six Sigma as the primary  process improvement method.SIx SIGmA AT CUmmINS
Six Sigma has played a key role in 
Cummins’ success since it was initiated 
in 2000 at a time when the Company was 
facing some significant financial problems.
The business-improvement tool created  
a common language for Cummins 
employees to solve problems and  
develop new products and processes.
Six Sigma uses data-based analysis  
to identify defects and variation in a  wide range of manufacturing and 
business situations.
Here’s a quick look at what  
Six Sigma has meant to Cummins:
 »As of the end of 2012, approximately 
14,000 people had been trained in  
how to use Six Sigma tools at Cummins since the process was initiated in 2000.
 »Almost $4.35 billion in savings have  been identified at Cummins since  
the program was initiated.
 »An estimated $858 million was saved  
by Cummins’ customers since 2005.
The Company also uses Six Sigma in its 
community involvement work, helping its 
community partners improve their efficiency and address major problems. In 2012,  106 Community Impact Six Sigma Projects were completed, up from 48 in 2011  
and 34 in 2010.INTRODUCTION
12  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013ENVIRONmENTAL
Cummins was again named to the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index in 2012 for 
an eighth consecutive year. The index 
represents the top 10 percent of the  world’s most sustainable companies  rated by Dow Jones over a range of 
economic, environmental and social 
responsibility factors.
The Company was named to Newsweek’s 
Top 500 Green Rankings list announced in 2012. The Company finished 64th in the 
magazine’s U.S. rankings and 134th in the 
global rankings. That was up 108 spots over the Company’s ranking in 2011.
Tata Cummins Limited in India won the  
13th Annual Greentech Environment  
Award in the silver category of the automobile sector in 2013. The award  by the Greentech Foundation recognizes best practices for effective waste 
management and water conservation.
Cummins was named Sustainability 
Supplier of the Year by Chrysler Group  LLC during its Annual Strategy Meeting  
and Supplier Awards Ceremony in 2012. The Company was honored for its all 
around approach to sustainability, including its extensive environmental efforts.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
AND ETHICS
Cummins was named to the Civic 50,  
a list of companies that “best use their  
time, talent and resources to improve  
the quality of life in their local communities and beyond” in 2012. The list is compiled by Bloomberg, the National Conference on Citizenship and the Points of Light 
Foundation. Cummins ranked 25th  
on the list.
The Company was named one of the 
World’s Most Ethical Companies by the 
Ethisphere Institute in 2013. The Institute 
evaluates companies’ commitment to ethical leadership, compliance practices and corporate responsibility. This was  the sixth consecutive year Cummins  
was named to the list.
Corporate Responsibility magazine named 
Cummins to its 2012 list of the world’s  100 Best Corporate Citizens. It was the 
12th time in the last 13 years that the 
Company has been named to the list.Our recognition
Cummins received recognition in several areas  
that touch on sustainability, including:
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  13WORkPLACE, fINANCIAL
Cummins was named one of the Top 50 
Companies for Diversity by DiversityInc 
magazine for a seventh consecutive year  
in 2013. Cummins ranked 15th on the list, up from 18th in 2012.
For the eighth consecutive year, Cummins 
was awarded a perfect score in the 2013 
Corporate Equality Index by the Human Rights Campaign (HRC), the largest U.S. civil rights organization for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) 
employees. The Company was recognized 
for offering equivalency in spouse and partner benefits, health coverage for transgender individuals, competency 
training and accountability measures  
for new hires and supervisors, and more.
Glassdoor Inc., a website that ranks 
employers, named Cummins to its annual list of the “Best Places to Work” in 2013. 
Cummins ranked 20th on the list, which 
is developed from anonymous employee feedback and input from employers.
Cummins India was named Best Employer 
for Women in Corporate India by the WILL 
Forum in 2012. The Company shared the award with five other corporations, but was the only winner in the manufacturing category. WILL evaluates companies for 
their practices and policies for women.
Cummins was named to the 2012 
InformationWeek 500, an annual listing of the nation’s most innovative users of business technology. Cummins last received this honor in 2007. InformationWeek identifies and honors the nation’s most 
innovative users of information technology.
Computerworld magazine selected 
Cummins Information Technology in  2012 as one of the Top 100 places  
to work in Information Technology.  
The list is compiled annually based on  a comprehensive questionnaire covering things such as benefits, diversity, career development, training and retention. 
Cummins was ranked 28th.
Cummins was named one of  
145 “Most Honored” companies by Institutional Investor magazine in 2012.  
The Company was rated by buy-side and 
sell-side analysts participating in a survey.  Almost 2,000 companies received votes.  Cummins was ranked top in its category.
The Motley Fool, a website for investors 
dedicated to building the “world’s greatest 
investment community” online, with a special focus on individual investors,  named Cummins at the top of its 2013 
list of the 25 Best Companies in America. 
Companies were evaluated for their  success in “serving investors, customers, employees and the world at large.”
Cummins was included on Fortune 
magazine’s 2013 list of the most admired 
companies, finishing fourth in the Industrial and Farm Equipment sector. Fortune asked business people to vote for the companies 
they most admired from any industry.
14  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013keeping the spirit of innovation alive
When a Delaware-based chemical plant was looking  
for innovative ways to shrink its carbon footprint,  
it turned to Cummins. 
Croda Inc.’s Atlas Point facility will get 
about half the power it needs in 2013 using a combined heat and power generating 
system from Cummins. The system runs 
on methane gas piped in from the nearby Cherry Island landfill and converts heat produced by the system’s two generators 
for use in Croda’s operations.
The project is expected to shrink the  
plant’s annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions equivalent to removing  33,000 cars from the road.“This project demonstrates innovation and environmental commitment by taking a readily available waste product that 
previously served no productive purpose –  
in this case landfill gas – and putting it to work,” said Delaware Secretary of the Environment and Energy Collin O’Mara  
at a ground-breaking ceremony in 2012. 
The Delaware initiative is merely one  
of many innovative projects Cummins  is working on around the world.
INNOVATIONINNOVATION
Construction crews lower a 
protective cover around a combined heat and power 
generating system at Croda 
Inc., a chemical company in 
Delaware. The system runs  
on gas from a nearby landfill.INNOVATION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  15The Company produces engines and power 
generation systems that run on alternative fuels, recover waste heat and shrink GHG 
emissions while providing customers with 
the power they need to succeed. Cummins’ Variable Geometry Turbochargers and revolutionary XPI Fuel Systems (page 16) 
boost power and reduce emissions while 
optimizing fuel economy.
Cummins’ commitment to innovation 
is reflected in the number and range of products it consistently brings to market. 
In the first quarter of 2013, the Company 
launched two new off-highway engines,  the QSF3.8 and the QSM12, at a trade show in Munich, and the new marine 
version of the QSB6.7 during boat  
shows in Miami and Shanghai.
The Company also unveiled a new 
powertrain package developed jointly  with Eaton that is expected to deliver a  
3 to 6 percent fuel economy improvement 
during the same time period and a suite of near-market and future turbochargers capable of improving fuel efficiency by 
at least 6 percent. In all, Cummins has 
introduced more than 60 new and updated products, including engines, components and power generation systems, since January 2012.
Whether it involves the Company’s 
products, building stronger communities through Cummins’ Corporate Responsibility program, keeping employees safe or 
creating the right work environment  
for success, innovation is critical to  the Company’s sustainability. VARIABLE GEOmETRY TURBOCHARGERS
Cummins has achieved many advances in Variable  Geometry Turbochargers (VGTs) to improve engine 
performance and power, and to reduce harmful  
engine emissions.
Turbochargers are fan-like devices first used to force  
air into engine cylinders to boost power and efficiency.  
They have enabled engines to get smaller and lighter  
without sacrificing performance.
Cummins’ Variable Geometry Turbochargers have the  
ability to control air flow independently of engine speed  and power to balance exhaust pressure against intake 
pressure for better emissions control.
Engines with VGTs can achieve peak efficiency over  
a broader operating range, contributing to better fuel economy and cleaner emissions. VGTs also help  
produce heat for chemical reactions critical to some  
exhaust aftertreatment systems.
Cummins’ patented VGT design is known for its  
simplicity. While other VGTs have many moving parts  in the hot gas flow, Cummins’ VGT has one moving  
flow control surface.
This makes the design much more durable and  
especially well suited for heavy-duty diesel applications.  As a result, Cummins has a more than 90 percent  
share of the heavy-duty VGT market.INNOVATION IN ACTION
INNOVATION
16  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Maintaining something so important to 
Cummins’ sustainability can’t be left to chance. That’s why in 2013 the Company 
launched a campaign across Cummins to 
promote innovation – one of the Company’s six core values. Employees are being asked to See the Future First and Beat the 
Competition to It!
™
“Innovation continues to be fundamental 
to how we grow today and how we are going to grow in the future,” said Cummins 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tom 
Linebarger. “I think it’s really important to figure out how we are going to sustain the levels of innovation we enjoy today and  
find new ways to innovate in the future.”
BUILDING ON A RICH HISTORY
The good news is that Cummins has a  
rich history of innovation to draw on and  
the Company has consistently invested  
in research and development and cutting-edge technology to keep moving forward.
Clessie Cummins was an inventor at heart 
when he started the Company (page 20).  A self-taught mechanic who built his first  
car as a teenager, Cummins was awarded 
more than 30 patents in areas ranging  from fuel systems to engine brakes.
Dr. Julius Perr, the Company’s most prolific 
inventor, joined Cummins after fleeing Communist Hungary in 1956 (page 22). xPI fUEL SYSTEm
Cummins’ XPI Fuel System  
was a significant breakthrough  
in heavy-duty fuel systems.
Dr. Julius Perr (page 22) conceived the basic  
design, which he originally called the “Flexible  and Efficient Fuel System.”
At the time, modern heavy-duty engines were fueled  
by “unit injectors” similar to the designs that originated with Clessie Cummins – individual fuel injectors for  each engine cylinder where combustion takes place.
Alternative “common rail” fuel systems, which were being 
used on some smaller, high-speed diesels, were more 
flexible because they were powered independently by a separate fuel pump with electronically controlled injection. 
But they were inefficient for heavy-duty applications, 
where good fuel economy is a must, and their  
injection pressure capability was too low for  future emission controls. 
Cummins created a design that retained common  
rail flexibility but made it much more efficient and  
at the same time greatly increased the maximum  
injection pressure. The increase was so far above competitors’ capabilities it was named XPI,  short for eXtreme high Pressure Injection. 
XPI allows for a small amount of fuel to be injected  
into the combustion chamber slightly before the main injection to reduce noise and prepare the chamber  for lower emissions. A small injection after the main injection can optimize aftertreatment temperatures. INNOVATION IN ACTION
INNOVATION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  17Over his more than 40-year career, the  
mechanical engineer submitted more than 
300 patents on engine improvements, 
including 80 still in use today.
Dr. Alyn Lyn joined the Company in  
1968 as a senior technical advisor and 
would become Cummins’ Vice President of Research during his more than 20 years 
with the Company (page 23). In addition  
to playing a key role in Cummins’  successful entry into China, Dr. Lyn  
was a pioneer in detailed combustion 
modeling of the diesel engine.
That modeling would become the 
foundation for Analysis Led Design,  
which Cummins uses today in almost all  of its technical research and development.  By employing sophisticated computer 
models to first analyze all aspects of an 
engineering challenge and then designing solutions accordingly, Cummins engineers 
can study an almost limitless variety  
of approaches.Analysis Led Design has increased  the depth and breadth of research at 
the Company. It has been good for the 
environment, too, by limiting the amount of testing that takes place with an actual 
engine in a test cell.
Cummins today has technical centers in 
Brazil, China, India, the United Kingdom  
and the United States and a number of 
highly specialized tools at its disposal.
The Company’s Cyber Applications Lab,  
for example, is able to virtually replicate  
a truck trip from, say, Denver, Colo.,  to Columbus, Ind., including traffic  
and weather, to test the performance  
of a turbocharger or other components.  The Department of Metrology’s laser  tracker can take a three-dimensional  
picture of an engine component so 
engineers can check a part against the original design specifications to detect  
even tiny variations. 
 
Cummins’ Randy Franklin in 
the Company’s Department  
of Metrology uses a laser 
tracker to take a three-
dimensional picture of  
a turbocharger. It’s one  
of the tools Cummins  
has to make extremely  precise measurements.INNOVATION
18  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013With engines and components being  
asked to do more than ever before,  
even the slightest variation can be critical. 
The Company’s commitment to research 
and development is unwavering. In 2012, 
despite a drop in sales from $18 billion 
to $17.3 billion in the midst of a global economic slowdown, the Company 
invested a record $728 million in  
research and development, up  16 percent from 2011.
In addition, Cummins and its joint  
ventures invested over $1 billion in  capital expenditures, much of it related  
to the development of new products.
“We can’t stop investing in technology  
and expect to be in the market in two or 
three years,” said Pat Ward, Cummins’  
Vice President – Finance and the Company’s Chief Financial Officer.
CAmPAIGNING fOR INNOVATION
Cummins’ campaign for innovation  
comes at an especially critical time  
for the Company’s technical function. 
For most of the past two decades,  
the biggest driver of technical innovation 
at the Company has been increasingly 
stringent emissions regulations in nearly every platform, from pickup truck engines to 
power generation systems. With emissions 
levels approaching near-zero levels in most mature markets, Cummins technical leaders 
are thinking a lot about what will drive 
innovation over the next 20 or 30 years. “We have had a very strict schedule  of emissions technology requirements  
over time,” said Cummins Vice President 
and Chief Technical Officer Dr. John Wall.  “We’ve been paced by the leading markets 
and integrated that into developing markets, 
which gives us a pace and schedule to product delivery.
“Without that strong driver, we now have to 
create our own pace for innovation. How do we interact with our customers and manage 
our business to deliver innovative products 
when we don’t have that clock ticking on the next emissions regulations?”
Wall believes it will be more critical than ever 
before for Cummins to stay connected to its customers so the Company’s engineers 
can anticipate their needs and desires even 
when they may not be able to put them  into words.
“We need to know our markets and 
individual customers better than anyone else,” he said. “We need to know our 
technologies better than anyone else  
and we need to be able to combine those so we can continue to differentiate our 
products in the eyes of our customers.”
Wall has asked Joan Wills, Director – 
Technology Planning, to work with business 
units and their leaders within Cummins to 
create the processes, capability and culture necessary to drive innovation in the future. 
She is stressing the importance of listening 
to customers, devoting personnel and resources to research and development, 
and investing in new technology.ExTERNAL  
AND INTERNAL  
SENSING NETWORkS
Sensing new technology ideas  
and market opportunities.
LINk mARkET  
OPPORTUNITY TO 
TECHNOLOGY NEED
See product value:  
Value to customer and profitability for Cummins.
RECEPTIVE TO  
NEW TECHNOLOGY
Mindset and capacity  
to accept and develop  
new technologies.
DEEP TECHNICAL 
ExPERTISE
Visible career paths that 
develop and sustain deep 
technical expertise in key areas.
RAPID PROTOTYPING  
AND CONCEPT  
EVOLUTION
Test design concepts and  
test understanding of market  
and customer opportunities.
RAPID AND  
CAPABLE SORTING
Focus resources on most 
promising concepts as the 
concepts evolve.
CROSS-fUNCTIONAL 
DIVERSE TEAm
Act without boundaries  
in drawing expertise from  
across the organization in assembling work teams.SEVEN ENABLERS Of 
INNOVATION AT CUmmINSINNOVATION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  19SYSTEmS INTEGRATION 
Cummins is the only company that produces all of the critical 
subsystems required to build an engine or genset in-house. 
The Company’s experience with making components work 
together has established Cummins as the industry leader in systems integration. 
Unlike its competitors, Cummins can design its components 
with no proprietary boundaries. Subsystem designers work 
hand-in-hand with system integrators to ensure customer needs are met. 
Electronic Control Modules coordinate engine accessories, 
ABS brakes, the transmission and more to deliver top 
performance. The Interact System on most Cummins  
engines includes advanced prognostics and diagnostics.
Cummins Power Generation develops and manufactures 
all of the key components for gensets, from the alternator 
and transfer switches to the controls, turbochargers and 
paralleling systems. They all communicate via Cummins’ PowerCommand digital controls.
Controls are critical to operate subsystem functions  
efficiently and to integrate Cummins’ engines and gensets 
into vehicles, equipment, buildings and power systems.  
They deliver information and take input from operators, service systems and equipment manufacturers.
The Company’s comprehensive approach enables  
Cummins to deliver better designs to component  
customers, too. The Company’s market-leading Variable Geometry Turbochargers, for example, were designed differently from others because the Company understood heavy-duty diesel engines better than anyone else.INNOVATION IN ACTIONWills and her staff have developed a  
list of “Cummins Innovation Enablers”  
(page 18) to help guide Company  leaders and employees as they think  
about what’s ahead.
“Cummins has a rich history of product 
innovation, so these enablers will seem 
familiar to many,” Wills said. “But in the 
crush of meeting day-to-day deadlines,  they can get pushed to the back burner  
and we just can’t afford to let that happen.”
Wills said there is no question in her  
mind that the spirit of innovation is alive  
and well at Cummins and the future is 
extremely bright.
The Delaware landfill gas project is a  
good example. Work is already underway 
on an even bigger, more complex project  to install a combined heat and power 
system at the City of Wilmington’s  
waste water treatment plant. 
That system, to be completed in 2014, 
will be fueled by a blend of gas from the 
Cherry Island landfill and digester gas from the treatment plant. The new project will 
produce nearly twice as much energy as  
the system at the chemical plant. 
“We have some incredible work happening 
all over the Company,” Wills said. “As we 
transition from an emission- to a more customer-focused approach, we have to 
adapt our product innovation expertise to 
our global markets. I’m confident we can and that Cummins’ legacy of innovation  
will continue for years to come.”
INNOVATION
20  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013“Almost all of Dad’s unique and creative 
ideas were to solve problems that 
continually arose,” said Lyle Cummins, 
Clessie’s son. “Thus, his life was one  of innovating through adversity.”
Lyle grew up watching his father at  
the height of his career, in what some describe as the golden age of American 
inventors. Clessie Cummins would 
sometimes swap stories with Henry  Ford, who liked to keep tabs on what  
his younger colleague was doing. Today, Lyle Cummins is working with the 
Company that bears his father’s name to 
preserve Cummins’ history. The Company 
has established an archive in the vault of  a former bank building it recently acquired  
in Columbus, Ind. 
The archive will hold pictures, documents 
and other artifacts, much of it involving 
the founding of the Company in 1919 
and the partnership between Columbus businessman W.G. Irwin and Clessie 
Cummins, the driver Irwin hired in 1908.
Lyle Cummins said his father’s formal 
education ended in the 8th grade  
after his family moved to Columbus.  
Clessie told family members he left  school because he was tired of  
knowing more than his teachers. 
Clessie’s father was in the barrel-making 
business and the family moved around  
a lot. One of the constants in Clessie’s  
life, however, was his fascination with  all things mechanical. He loved finding  
ways to make rural life easier.Problem solving through innovation
Clessie Cummins never stopped thinking about how  
he could make things work better. From the moment  
he built his first car as a teenager to working on a  
concept engine in the workshop at his California home  
in his 70s, Cummins (1888-1968) pursued innovation  
with a passion few could match.
Lyle Cummins and Cummins 
Chairman and CEO Tom 
Linebarger cut the ribbon on 
new space in a former bank 
building for the Company’s 
new archive of historical 
pictures and documents.INNOVATION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  21With Irwin’s financial backing, Clessie 
continued innovating, holding many patents 
himself. But Clessie Cummins was also 
a promotional genius, demonstrating the power and reliability of his diesel engines  
by barnstorming around the country in 
diesel-powered trucks and buses.
Lyle Cummins and his father were 
particularly close because they worked 
together. Clessie Cummins moved to California in 1945 after leaving the 
Company. At the same time, an influx 
of military veterans led to a shortage of housing at Stanford University in nearby 
Palo Alto so Lyle decided to live at home 
while he pursued an engineering degree. 
As a result, father and son worked together 
on cars and other projects while Lyle was 
in school and joined forces professionally after Lyle returned several years later for a 
graduate mechanical engineering degree.
They developed the “Jake Brake,” which 
preserves traditional brakes by converting 
an engine into a power absorbing air 
compressor to slow trucks down during long descents. Lyle Cummins would go  
on to become an outstanding engineer  
and an accomplished author and historian.Dr. John Wall, Cummins’ Vice President  and Chief Technical Officer, said he’s 
delighted the Company is working with  
Lyle Cummins to preserve Company history. He said generations of Cummins engineers 
will be inspired by Clessie’s story.
“When we talk about ‘Innovation You  
Can Depend On,’ that’s what Clessie was 
doing,” Wall said, referring to Cummins’ 
motto. “And that’s what we need to be doing moving forward, to keep a dynamic 
innovation and development process alive 
inside the Company and to deliver real  value to our customers.”
Lyle Cummins, Clessie 
Cummins’ son, looks at a 
restored Cummins diesel 
engine from the early days  
of the Company during  
an October 2012 visit  
to Columbus, Ind.INNOVATION
22  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013A mOST PROLIfIC 
INVENTOR
Dr. Julius Perr (1931-2005) 
submitted more than 
300 patents on engine 
and engine application 
improvements over 
his more than 40-year 
career at Cummins, 
including 80 patents that 
are still in use today. 
But the story of how he got to 
the Company almost overshadows his 
illustrious career at Cummins.
Perr was born in Hungary, grew up during 
World War II and was only a teenager when his homeland was taken over by the Soviet Union in 1945. He was 25 when he joined 
the Hungarian Revolution and in the fall  
of 1956, he and his countrymen briefly enjoyed freedom from Soviet rule.
The Soviets quickly crushed the rebellion, 
however, and Perr became a wanted man. He escaped through Austria, dodging  fire from Soviet patrol and border guards. He eventually made it to a refugee camp  
in Austria. 
He became part of a U.S.-Hungarian 
refugee program, which brought him to New Jersey. With a master’s degree 
in engineering, Perr was recruited by a 
number of automotive companies and eventually chose to join Cummins.
Dr. Perr settled in Columbus, Ind., where 
he was joined by his wife Elizabeth, who 
escaped Hungary in 1958. He then went 
to work on a host of engine improvements, most involving fuel systems. His patents dealt with fuel injectors, pumps, valves, 
nozzles and more.
In 1969, he was granted amnesty and 
allowed to return to Hungary. That enabled Dr. Perr to complete his doctorate in mechanical engineering from the University 
of Technology in Budapest in 1972. 
Cummins’ innovative giants
Clessie Cummins got it all started but he was far from the only 
remarkable innovator at Cummins. Dr. Julius Perr and Dr. Alyn 
Lyn each played key roles in helping Cummins become the 
technology leader it is today. In many ways, their impact on  
the Company can still be felt today, not only in their inventions 
but in the doors they opened for those behind them. INNOVATION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  23Dr. Perr was commended by the U.S. 
Patent Office for the example he set  for young inventors. Today, the annual  
Dr. Julius Perr Awards are Cummins’  
highest honor for technical innovation.
“Julius had a very active mind – and he  
was always inventing and teaching,” recalls 
Dr. John Wall, Cummins’ Vice President  
and Chief Technical Officer. “It was not unusual to see him in the cafeteria at lunchtime, in his rumpled blue suit, surrounded by young engineers and 
drawing injector designs on napkins.
“He is the most stimulating engineering 
boss I ever had,” Wall added. “That’s part of the spirit we need to keep alive in Cummins, 
and that’s why we honor our best inventors 
each year with the Dr. Julius Perr Award.”
A LION IN THE INDUSTRY
Dr. Alyn Lyn (1917-2010) played a critical role in Cummins history in many ways.  He was one of the world’s foremost 
authorities on engine combustion, bringing 
his expertise to the Company in 1968. He eventually became Cummins’ Vice President of Research. 
Dr. Lyn also played a key role in Cummins’ 
successful entry into China in the mid-1970s. He was able to help the Company navigate the Chinese system to establish operations in the country.
“Dr. Lyn was an absolute lion in the 
industry,” said Cummins’ Vice President  and Chief Technical Officer Dr. John Wall.  “He was a mentor to many young engineers 
working in the 
field of engine combustion, including me.”
After graduating 
from Tsinghua University in Beijing, China, with a degree in mechanical engineering, Lyn completed  
his master’s degree and his doctorate in 
mechanical engineering at the University  of London in the United Kingdom.
He worked at Rolls Royce and then 
obtained a doctorate of science from  
King’s College in London, becoming  the first Chinese university professor  in the United Kingdom. He later joined Cummins and moved to the United States. 
Lyn retired in 1982 although he continued 
with the Company as a part-time  consultant until 1990. His legacy lives on in the Dr. Lyn Scholarship, sponsored 
by Cummins at Tsinghua University in 
Beijing. The scholarship helps academically outstanding but financially challenged female students study engineering at China’s foremost technical university.
The Dr. Lyn Scholarship, the first  
scholarship for women in engineering  at Tsinghua University, builds on two  of Cummins’ core values: innovation  
and diversity.
INNOVATION
24  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013ALTERNATIVE 
fUELS
Vehicle fleets and equipment operators are 
already exploring alternative fuels to reduce 
emissions, improve operating costs, or adapt 
to locally available fuel sources. This trend is expected to continue over the next decade. 
Natural gas has emerged as the most promising 
alternative fuel for many market segments. New drilling techniques have greatly expanded 
natural gas production and have significantly 
reduced fuel costs. 
For example, in the United States, about  
15 percent of new transit buses and 50 percent 
of new refuse trucks currently operate on natural gas. Meanwhile, industry assessments predict 
that natural gas adoption rates in the United 
States for the on-highway truck market may be between 10 and 20 percent by 2018 with 
further upside beyond that. 
Cummins is a leading producer of natural gas 
engines and components for a wide variety of 
markets, including trucks and buses, oil and  
gas production and electric power generation. 
INNOVATIONThe future of innovation at Cummins
We asked some of the Company’s technical leaders  
to look at innovation at Cummins five, 10 and 15 years  
into the future. Here’s a quick look at what they said:
REDUCING CO2  
EmISSIONS AND  fUEL CONSUmPTION
The near future will continue revolving around reducing  
CO2 emissions and fuel consumption. 
In late 2012, Cummins announced its ISX15 engine had  
received the first certification from the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) for new greenhouse gas (GHG)  and fuel-efficiency rules, a full year before those regulations  
take effect in 2014. The ISX15, the top-selling engine in the 
heavy-duty truck market, will achieve up to a 2 percent fuel economy improvement over its predecessor. 
The approach to meeting regulations in 2016 and 2017 will  
be largely the same as in 2014. There will be new requirements for on-board diagnostics and further improvements required in 
CO
2 emissions and fuel efficiency. CO2 is a key contributor to 
global warming.
Possible technology improvements to reduce CO2 emissions 
beyond 2017 could include converting waste heat from  
the engine into useful energy, hybrid powertrains to capture 
energy lost in braking and deceleration, advanced combustion, and improvements to the aftertreatment and fuel systems. 10 YEARS OUT 5 YEARS OUTINNOVATION
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  25
 
 
 
 Cummins’ current natural gas engine product 
line ranges from 50 to 2,700 horsepower, and 
the Company recently announced plans to develop several new engines. 
A new engine requires an investment of  
$10 million to $50 million over the program  life, so these new products represent a  
significant commitment to alternative fuels. 
Cummins is also working on technology to improve the efficiency of natural gas powered 
generation systems by 20 percent by 2018. 
These engines will also be capable of running on renewable fuels.
Also in the development pipeline:
 »Technology to reduce long haul truck  
fuel consumption by 10 to 15 percent  from the fuel consumption of the  
2017 product.
 »Engines fueled by gas that uses sewage  
and municipal waste as feedstock and  gas derived from agricultural waste.INTEGRATING  
POWER SOURCES
Harnessing power generated from renewable energy sources like 
wind and solar is gaining interest today and will likely be a key 
issue in 15 years. Cummins is preparing now to meet that need. 
Cummins Energy Solutions Business, part of its Power Generation 
business, has been installing combined heat and power (CHP)
systems for some time. CHP , or cogeneration, is the production  
of two kinds of energy – usually electricity and heat – from a single source of fuel. 
Small power systems that draw from multiple energy sources 
including renewable forms of energy are on the horizon,  operating either as autonomous “microgrids” capable of  
storing and distributing power or connected to established grids. 
Distributed generation technology that allows energy production 
at the point of consumption opens up the possibility of integrating 
traditional generators with renewable forms of energy. 
Wind and solar, for example, cannot provide a continuous output 
of power by themselves. But using wind or solar with a diesel or 
natural gas engine to create a standalone energy system could 
offer many benefits. 
Such a system would lower operating costs. And Cummins’ 
generator sets could be used to “firm” or support grids with  
a high penetration of renewable energy much faster and in  a more efficient manner than conventional peaking power plants.
INNOVATION15 YEARS OUTENVIRONmENT
26  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The “SuperTruck” achieved a 54 percent 
increase in fuel economy, averaging nearly 
10 miles per gallon during testing along U.S. 
Route 287 between Fort Worth and Vernon. The truck also demonstrated a 61 percent 
improvement in freight efficiency compared 
to a baseline truck driving the same route.
The freight efficiency result significantly 
exceeded the 50 percent SuperTruck 
program goal set by the Department  of Energy (DOE). Freight efficiency is  
an important metric in the transportation 
industry that is based on payload weight and fuel efficiency.The truck also includes a system that converts exhaust heat into power delivered 
to the crankshaft, electronic controls that 
use route information to optimize fuel use, tires with lower rolling resistance and lighter-
weight material throughout.
“Many of the technologies we are testing  
on the concept engine and truck will be 
integral parts of the trucks of tomorrow,” 
said David Koeberlein, Principal Investigator for the SuperTruck program at Cummins. 
The Class 8 Peterbilt 587 powered by a 
Cummins ISX15 engine averaged 9.9 mpg over 11 runs meeting SAE International test 
ENVIRONmENTENVIRONmENT
UPDATE: 
‘SuperTruck’ off to impressive start
The concept truck featuring a higher efficiency engine  
and an aerodynamic tractor-trailer developed by Cummins 
and Peterbilt Motors Company turned some heads during 
testing in the fall of 2012 on a U.S. highway in Texas.
The concept “SuperTruck” 
outside Peterbilt Motors 
Company’s headquarters 
in Denton, Texas. The truck 
recorded impressive results  
in fuel economy and  
freight efficiency.
ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  27standards along a 312-mile route.  
The tractor-trailer had a combined  
gross weight of 65,000 pounds.
Today’s long-haul trucks typically achieve 
between 5.5 and 6.5 mpg. The 54 percent 
increase in fuel economy would save about 
$25,000 annually based on today’s diesel fuel prices for a long-haul truck traveling 
120,000 miles per year. It would also 
translate into a 35 percent reduction in 
annual greenhouse gas emissions per truck.
The potential savings in fuel and 
greenhouse gases are enormous,  
given American Trucking Association 
estimates that there are about  2 million registered tractor-trailers  
on U.S. roads today.
Cummins is a prime contractor leading  
one of four teams participating in the  
DOE’s SuperTruck project. SuperTruck  
is one of several initiatives under the  21st Century Truck Partnership, which is 
a public-private effort to further stimulate 
innovation in the trucking industry.
Cummins, Peterbilt and their program 
partners will have invested $38.8 million  
in private funds over the four-year life of  
their SuperTruck program, with critical support coming through awarded  matching grants from the Department of Energy’s Vehicle Technologies Program.
Cummins personnel have been focused 
on the engine and its integration with the powertrain. They have been working with 
several other companies and research 
institutions to also develop numerous changes in the combustion system. 
Peterbilt, a division of Paccar, has been 
working with its partners on improvements 
in the drivetrain, the idle management 
system and weight reduction in addition  to the truck’s aerodynamics. Meanwhile, 
Eaton’s advanced transmission facilitates 
further engine downspeeding for  additional fuel economy benefits. 
“Aerodynamics has been a significant 
contributor to the efficiency gains,”  said Scott Newhouse, Senior Assistant 
Chief Engineer of Product Development  
at Peterbilt. “We’ve been very pleased  with what our team has been able  
to accomplish.”
Testing will continue in 2013 on a new 
Peterbilt 579 that will address use of the tractor-trailer over a 24-hour period; 
including times when drivers are at rest  
but still need power for such things as  air conditioning and small appliances. Cummins SuperTruck team 
members Jon Dickson,  
Vehicle Applications Leader –  
Advanced Engineering;  
David Koeberlein, SuperTruck 
Principal Investigator and 
Wayne Eckerle, Vice President –  
Research & Technology,  
during a SuperTruck visit  
to Columbus in 2012.
 »SuperTruck nears  
10 miles-per-gallon  mark (page 26).
 »Cummins is recycling nearly 90 percent of  its waste (page 42).
 »Mexico plants slash 
water use (page 53).Environment
POINTS Of 
INNOVATION  ENVIRONmENT
28  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013As the only independent engine 
manufacturer with the in-house capability to produce all major engine systems, 
Cummins can provide the best solution  
to customers across all applications.
The Company’s diverse product 
portfolio meets or exceeds all emissions 
requirements while delivering superior fuel 
economy. At the same time, it delivers the performance, reliability and durability that customers demand.
There is a push for stronger environmental 
regulations by governments in almost 
every country around the world. Meeting 
emissions regulations is a critical element  of Cummins’ global success. The Company 
believes its technical expertise gives 
Cummins a competitive advantage in  this business environment.
The Company’s goal is to develop the best 
technical solutions and business processes 
to meet customers’ needs in each individual market. This approach builds on the 
emissions compliance work Cummins has historically done, but adds a very important, 
all-encompassing regional element to 
ensure customers have the right technology, at the right time and in the right places.
ENGINES
Cummins on-highway engines have  
been regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and similar regulatory agencies around the world for combustion emissions since the 1970s. Regulated emissions include nitrogen 
oxide (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), 
hydrocarbons (HC) and particulate  matter (PM), also known as soot. 
Engines have come a long way in a 
relatively short time period. Today’s on-highway diesel engines emit 90 percent  less PM and NOx compared to emissions from just a little more than a decade ago.Products
Cummins is able to provide the most appropriate emissions 
control for each market it serves because of the Company’s 
leadership in combustion research, fuel systems, air-
handling systems, electronics, filtration and aftertreatment. ENVIRONmENTAL SUSTAINABILITY // PRODUCTS
Cummins pursues environmental sustainability through its products,  
practices and partnerships. This report now takes an in-depth  
look at Cummins products and their impact on the environment.ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  29Cummins has been a leader in clean diesel 
technology, pioneering the design and use of integrated subsystem technology such 
as combustion, controls, fuel systems, 
filtration, air handling, and aftertreatment.
The Company’s commitment to innovation 
has enabled it to deliver exceptional fuel 
economy for the Company’s on- and off-
highway customers, ultimately reducing their output of carbon dioxide (CO
2),  
a key contributor to global warming. 
The Company has also supported the 
development of biodiesel. All of Cummins’ 
engines produced today are equipped  to run on a 20 percent blend of biodiesel.
Doing both the right thing for customers 
and the right thing for the environment is 
Cummins’ highest priority.
ON-HIGHWAY ENGINES
The U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency has established the most  
stringent emissions regulations in the  
world, reducing both allowable NOx and  PM levels by 90 percent compared to 2004. In 2010, all heavy-duty on-highway engines 
sold in the United States had to meet the 
EPA’s NOx standard (0.20 grams per brake-horsepower hour (g/bhp-hr))  and the PM standard (0.01g/bhp-hr). Cummins was among the first companies  to meet these new standards. In 2010,  the Company successfully introduced  
the ISX15 engine for use in 18-wheel  
heavy-duty commercial tractor-trailers.  The engine provides up to 6 percent  greater fuel economy, stronger 
performance, faster throttle response  
and best-in-class drivability and  reliability compared to Cummins’  previous industry leading ISX engine. 
The 2010 regulations not only required 
near-zero NOx and PM emissions, 
but also the phase-in of advanced on-board diagnostic controls with additional 
ISX12
ISX15
A new powertrain package by 
Cummins and Eaton that will 
improve fuel economy by 3 to 
6 percent is displayed at the 
Mid-America Trucking Show in 
Louisville, Ky., in March 2013. ENVIRONmENT
30  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013sensors to monitor the effectiveness of 
emission-control systems on the engine. The on-board diagnostics alert drivers if 
emission-reduction devices fail and need to 
be repaired. In 2013, on-board diagnostics have been implemented across Cummins’ entire line of on-highway products for the 
United States.
Beginning in 2014, new greenhouse gas 
and fuel-efficiency rules will take effect  for all on-highway engines in the United States. Cummins ISX15 was the first  
engine to achieve EPA certification  
(page 40) for the new standards –  a full year ahead of schedule. 
The engine provides up to 2 percent  
greater fuel economy than the 2012  
model year engine, and maintains its  best-in-class drivability and reliability.
The ISX15 features the Cummins XPI fuel 
system, the next generation of Exhaust Gas 
Recirculation (EGR), a Variable Geometry 
Turbocharger and Cummins Aftertreatment System that incorporates a Diesel Particulate Filter and Selective Catalytic 
Reduction (SCR) technology to reduce 
emissions. Each ISX15 can reduce CO
2 
emissions by up to 12 metric tons per  year compared to a 2007 ISX engine.
In 2012, Cummins introduced the new 
ISX12 engine for the vocational and work-truck market, emergency vehicles and motor coach applications. The engine is 
designed to deliver better fuel economy, 
performance, reliability and durability in  a compact design.For the heavy-duty pickup truck market,  the 2013 Ram heavy-duty trucks using  
a 6.7-liter Cummins turbo diesel and SCR 
aftertreatment will get at least 10 percent better fuel economy (depending on duty cycle) than a model year 2012 truck.
The Company also announced a  
new powertrain package for the North American heavy-duty truck market in  2013 that is expected to deliver a 3 to  6 percent fuel economy improvement,  
lower preventive maintenance costs,  
and reduce total lifecycle cost.
The new product combines an Eaton
®  
Fuller Advantage™ Series automated 
transmission with new Cummins ISX15 
SmartTorque2 ratings. The product will  
be available in the fall of 2013 for line- 
haul, regional haul and less-than- truckload (LTL) applications. 
Off-HIGHWAY ENGINES
In only three years, the North American  
and European industrial markets have  been faced with the challenge of transitioning to near-zero emissions  by 2014. This challenged Cummins to 
look beyond basic engine technologies to 
areas such as high pressure fuel systems, advanced turbocharging, electronics and aftertreatment systems to further reduce 
off-highway engine emissions. 
The resulting innovations not only helped 
to meet the latest regulations, but also led to more fuel efficient products that produce less CO
2. The off-highway business has Fit for Market is a Cummins strategy to meet customer requirements by using the 
Company’s knowledge, tools  
and technologies to deliver  cost-effective products with  the right capability for each  
market in every global region. 
This is not a one-size-fits-all 
approach, but a strategy to  listen to customers and understand their needs.
Cummins has a portfolio  
of technologies that can  be adapted to meet the power needs of specific 
markets, taking into account 
local product and application requirements, the local service  environment and local manufacturing capability.CUmmINS’ fIT fOR  mARkET STRATEGYENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  31gone beyond simply reducing engine 
emissions and improving fuel economy  by launching multiple “clean-sheet”  
engines, designed from the beginning 
without any constraints.
Since 2011, Cummins extended its  
off-highway power offering at each  
end of the horsepower spectrum,  
down to 49 hp with the QSF2.8 and up to  4,200 hp with the QSK95. Both of these engines were designed with advanced emissions control in mind and as minimal  
an impact to the customer as possible. 
They are equipped with aftertreatment systems that require no active regeneration to meet applicable regulations.
In April of 2013, Cummins introduced  
two additional engines at a major trade show in Munich, Germany, completing  the Company’s full product lineup for  Tier 4 Final from 49 to 675 hp. The new 
QSF3.8 and the QSM12 were developed 
from a clean-sheet design and fill very specific power densities to meet  customer demands.
NATURAL GAS ENGINES
As natural gas has become increasingly 
available, Cummins has been developing a full line of natural gas engines, both through its engine business and through Cummins 
Westport Inc. The joint venture partnership 
was established with Westport Innovations Inc. of Vancouver, British Columbia, in 2001.
Cummins Westport’s natural gas  
engines are available as factory-installed 
options from more than 50 truck and 
bus manufacturers, establishing the joint partnership as the leading North American provider of natural gas engines for on-
highway commercial vehicles.
The joint venture announced in early  
2013 that it had received certification for its  
ISX12 G engine from the EPA, meeting both the agency’s 2013 regulations and new 
greenhouse gas and fuel efficiency rules 
Chairman and CEO Tom 
Linebarger and the Executive 
Director of the Heavy-Duty 
Growth Program, Jerl Purcell, 
stand between the new 
QSF3.8 and QSM12 engines 
at the Bauma 2013 trade  
show in Munich, Germany.ENVIRONmENT
32  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
taking effect in 2014. Limited production  
of the natural gas engine began in April, with full production to start in August 2013.
About five months earlier, Cummins 
Westport announced it had started development on another engine,  the ISB6.7 G. The 6.7-liter natural gas 
engine is based on Cummins ISB6.7  
diesel engine. The natural gas version  is expected to be in production by 2015. 
The engines offered by Cummins Westport 
range in size from 5.9-liters to the 12-liter 
ISX12 G now entering production.
Independent of the joint venture,  
the Cummins Engine Business Unit  has been building natural gas engines  
for many years, especially in the  
Company’s High Horsepower business, primarily for power generation and gas  compression customers. 
Last year, Cummins announced plans  
to produce dual fuel engines from  800 hp to 3500 hp (597-2610 kW) for 
high-horsepower markets. The first in the product portfolio, QSK50 Tier 2 for oil and 
gas well servicing applications, will begin 
production in mid-2013, with other QSK Series engines to follow, including engines capable of meeting upcoming EPA  
Tier 4 Final emissions regulations.
Cummins projects that by 2020, nearly 
30 percent of its high horsepower engine production will be natural gas due to the increasing abundance of the fuel and its 
relatively low cost. 
Cummins is currently working on a natural 
gas version of the QSK95, a 95-liter engine unveiled in 2011 that will be the largest 
high-speed diesel engine the Company  
has ever built.
The Company is also developing a 15-liter 
heavy-duty natural gas engine for on-highway applications. That engine is 
expected to be in production by 2016.
These employees are part 
of the high tech processes 
Cummins uses to reclaim  
50 million pounds of  
product annually through  
its remanufacturing initiatives. 
Remanufacturing requires less 
energy than producing new parts and keeps Cummins’ 
product out of landfills. ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  33REmANUf ACTURING
Through remanufacturing, Cummins takes 
engines and parts at the end of their 
useful life and returns them to productive 
use, significantly reducing the amount of Company product that ends up in landfills and saving energy that would otherwise  
be used to manufacture new products. 
Cummins is an industry leader 
in remanufacturing, with sales of approximately $1 billion in 2012. Cummins remanufacturing reclaimed 50 million 
pounds of product in 2012 and avoided  
200 million pounds of GHG emissions.  The business offers 1,000 components  and 2,000 engine part numbers.
The Company remanufactures engines 
and parts through the common application of salvage technology, component reuse guidelines and remanufacturing-specific policies and procedures. Cummins’ 
remanufactured products are often  
“up-cycled” to include design and  quality upgrades.
Remanufacturing requires about  
85 percent less energy than manufacturing 
a brand new product. If an engine block, for example, can be reused, the energy consumed in the ore mining, processing, transportation, casting, and machining  
to make a new block is eliminated.
Since most of the energy used at  
Cummins and in the Company’s supply chain is fossil-fuel based, the energy 
savings equate to greenhouse gas 
reductions. In addition to the energy  and GHG savings, remanufacturing  reduces landfill waste and further supports  Cummins water reclamation initiatives.
Remanufactured parts can improve power 
and durability because often product improvements have occurred since the component was initially produced and 
these upgrades are often included in the 
remanufacturing process. Remanufactured parts and engines come backed by warranties, parts availability and service. 
Finally, the use of remanufactured 
components can also cost-effectively 
extend the life of an entire piece of equipment. The vehicle and chassis, for example, can be updated to match the 
extended life of a remanufactured engine.
CUmmINS EmISSION SOLUTIONS
Cummins Emission Solutions (CES) is  
no stranger to global emissions challenges. A subsidiary of Cummins since 2002,  
CES has quickly built a reputation for 
developing emissions-related solutions  to its customers’ distinctive needs  around the world.
The business develops aftertreatment 
products for on-highway and off-highway applications based on years of dedication to understanding engine 
exhaust and how effective 
and innovative technology  can convert exhaust components into  
harmless elements. 
This urea supply unit (left) and 
dosing unit (above) are part of 
Cummins Emission Solutions’ 
industry-leading aftertreatment 
systems. The systems help 
reduce harmful engine 
emissions to near-zero levels. ENVIRONmENT
34  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013In 2012, the Brazilian market saw its  
first emissions regulations come into play. Equivalent to Euro V regulations, the 
Proconve P-7 regulations required Selective 
Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology to meet emissions limits. With over 40 billion miles of SCR system experience, Cummins 
Emission Solutions was well positioned to 
support its customers during this launch.
SCR systems, coupled with urea (diesel 
exhaust fluid) dosing technologies, convert oxides of nitrogen (NOx), which can cause 
smog and acid rain, into harmless nitrogen 
gas and water. In many mature emissions markets such as North America and Europe, SCR systems are combined with 
a diesel particulate filter and an oxidation 
catalyst which aid in the regulation of particulate matter (PM), or soot.
In the latter half of 2012, CES focused on 
integrating a new product in its portfolio. 
The acquisition of Hilite International’s  
SCR division in July introduced a liquid- only urea dosing system into Cummins Emission Solutions’ product line. 
This EcoFit UL2 Liquid-Only Urea Dosing 
System offers additional flexibility and  ease of integration to customers.CUmmINS fILTRATION
Cummins Filtration provides high quality, 
high performance integrated filtration 
system solutions to protect equipment, 
offering customers the best possible solutions while remaining mindful of  its responsibilities to the environment.
The business recently introduced  
its advanced nanotechnology based  media, NanoNet
™, designed for engines  
operating under the stringent requirements of the very latest EPA and European 
emissions standards.
A first for fuel filtration, NanoNet traps  
98.7 percent of all hard particles at  4 microns – 12 times smaller than the 
smallest particle visible to the human eye. 
This proprietary media provides unmatched protection for today’s high pressure common rail fuel systems essential to  clean emissions. 
Cummins Filtration’s User Friendly Filter  
is one of the Company’s first products to 
be developed using full life-cycle analysis, 
assessing its environmental impact at all  
stages of the product’s life.ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  35As the only filter manufacturer that is  
part of an engine company, Cummins Filtration has a key technology advantage 
that has resulted in a number of other  
innovations including:
 »PG Platinum
™ – A NAPS free propylene 
glycol coolant, it contains no nitrites, amines, phosphates or silicates. 
Propylene glycol is recognized as non-
hazardous and non-poisonous by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 
 »Crankcase Ventilation – These systems 
filter up to 100 percent of oil drip, up  
to 95 percent of aerosol vapors and  100 percent of engine compartment fumes. Since crankcase hydrocarbon emissions can contribute up to  
25 percent of total emissions, control  
of this air pollution source is critical. 
 »Filter-in-Filter – This product combines two filters in a single cartridge, which is 
then contained within a reusable housing. 
This provides maximum protection for the engine and reduces the amount of waste material during regular fuel system maintenance. The design also reduces 
volatile organic compounds because the  
filters no longer require painting.
Cummins Filtration also strives to be environmentally sensitive in the way it  
does business.
Entering its second year, the Fleetguard
® 
Filter Recycling Management Program, 
Filtering Change™, continues to enable 
customers to be environmentally responsible. In 2012, over 670 tons  of filters, including 546 tons of steel,  were recycled through the program,  more than four times the year-end goal  set by Cummins Filtration. This equates  
to about 745 avoided metric tons  
of greenhouse gas emissions.
Cummins Filtration remains the only filter 
manufacturer to initiate an internal recycling management program aimed at partnering 
with service centers and fleet locations 
throughout the United States and globally. 
Recycling content is important to  
Cummins Filtration’s sourcing decisions. 
Currently, 20 percent of Cummins  
Filtration’s 75,000 tons of integrated steel used to produce filter shells comes from recycled metal along with 80 percent of  the 25,000 tons of mini-mill steel used  
to produce other filter components.
POWER GENERATION 
Cummins Power Generation is committed 
to solving customers’ power needs in ways 
that benefit communities and contribute to 
comprehensive environmental solutions. 
Waste to energy
In the drive to meet emissions standards 
and maximize cost-efficiency, more and 
more businesses are producing profitable 
and environmentally responsible energy from waste. 
Gaseous fuels that would otherwise be 
wasted are becoming the alternatives of 
choice. Landfill, wastewater treatment and other waste fuel source owners are discovering they can convert these Field testing started in 2013  as the U.S. Coast Guard Research and Development 
Center explored using  
100 percent biodiesel in some of its vessels to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Biodiesel is a renewable fuel  
made from a broad variety of sources such as vegetable oils, animal fat and recycled cooking oil. Cummins is helping the  
Coast Guard understand what 
changes would be needed to use 100 percent biodiesel in  its boats. 
A Cooperative Research and 
Development Agreement has been put in place for the field testing on a 49-foot boat.  It is set to continue for a year 
after which a final report will  
be published. CUmmINS AIDS IN  BIODIESEL TESTINGENVIRONmENT
36  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013alternative gaseous fuels into sustainable 
and economical electricity – reducing their costs and environmental footprint and 
selling the power generated to create  
new revenue.
Driving the change are low-BTU gas 
generator sets, which use proven technology to convert these “free”  energy sources into clean and  
economical electricity. 
A recent example involves an anaerobic 
digestion plant on a 3,500-acre farm  on the east coast of the United Kingdom. 
Power Generation’s Energy Solutions  
team created a system that converts  mixed biowaste into green, renewable 
power and heat at Nocton Fen Farm.  
The high-efficiency generator produces  very low emissions and the system has  a heat recovery system that includes exhaust gas heat exchangers.
The system reuses biowaste that otherwise 
would have been disposed in a landfill.  
The total energy efficiency of the project  is expected to exceed 90 percent when  fully operational, with some of the renewable electricity sold to the grid. 
The project also reduces the CO
2 admitted 
into the atmosphere by an estimated  
7,200 tons per year. And local farms  
use the plant’s output as a natural fertilizer. 
Cogeneration
Cummins’ combined heat and power  
(CHP) systems are providing power to 
hospitals, schools, sports complexes  and commercial facilities around the world.
Cogeneration is the production of two kinds 
of energy – usually electricity and heat – 
from a single source of fuel. Cogeneration can replace traditional methods of supplying energy from multiple sources such as 
Visiting Cummins employees 
learn about a high-efficiency 
Cummins generator that runs 
on biogas produced from 
variable biomass feedstock  
at the Nocton Fen Farm in  
the United Kingdom.
An anaerobic digestion plant on the farm produces  
the biogas that is then used to power the generator. 
ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  37
purchasing electricity from a power  
grid while also burning natural gas or  oil separately in a furnace to produce  
heat or steam.
These more traditional methods waste up 
to two-thirds of the energy in the original fuel. With cogeneration, 70 to 90 percent 
of the energy in the original fuel is put to 
productive use and total energy savings  can be 30 percent or more.
A cogeneration system normally consists of 
some kind of machine turning an alternator 
to produce electricity, and a waste heat 
recovery system capturing the heat from the exhaust and cooling water jacket. Cummins also provides trigeneration, or 
CCHP (combined cooling, heat and power), 
power systems, with recent installations at the new Centre for AgriBioscience and Royal Children’s Hospital, both in Australia, and The Museum of Human Evolution in 
Burgos, Spain. The hospital was honored 
by Building Products News magazine for having achieved unprecedented  levels of sustainability in an Australian healthcare project.
Cummins Generator Technologies
Cummins Generator Technologies (CGT) 
offers premium quality AC generators in  the range of 0.6 to 20,000 kilovolt amperes 
(kVA). CGT’s family of brands – MARKON, 
STAMFORD and AvK – is known for its robust build, reliable performance and versatile configurations.
CGT announced in 2012 the development 
of its first Motor Generator with CorePlus
™ 
technology, designed to be used in a 
range of commercial vehicle applications. 
Cummins believes there is a strong market 
for engine electrification in medium- and heavy-duty commercial vehicles.
Cummins Generator Technologies expects 
Cummins CorePlus
™ Motor Generator 
will accelerate the evolution of engine 
electrification and drive even greater Two Cummins natural  
gas powered generators 
provide heating, cooling  
and power for The Museum  
of Human Evolution complex  
in Burgos, Spain.ENVIRONmENT
38  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013improvements in vehicle fuel efficiency  
and emissions reduction. 
It is available with power, torque and 
performance characteristics suitable for 
hybrid systems, electric vehicle designs, range extender solutions and electrical power generation in vehicles. These can 
be applied across a range of commercial 
vehicle applications such as buses,  trucks and off-highway vehicles.
Advanced Medium Mobile  
Power Sources
Cummins’ Advanced Medium Mobile Power 
Sources (AMMPS) is a new line of mobile power generators for military use whose environmental and logistical benefits include 
greater fuel efficiency, lighter weight, quieter 
operations and increased reliability with a lower total lifecycle cost.
AMMPS generators are 21 percent more 
fuel efficient than their predecessors, which 
saves fuel in both the use of the generators 
and the transport of fuel to the generators. 
DC Generators
DC generators offer a cost-effective and 
environmentally-friendly alternative to 
conventional large battery reserve systems and traditional AC generators used to power remote community access TV, telecom and wireless tower sites. They continuously monitor the battery system and seamlessly restore power should battery backup fail or a prolonged 
power outage occur. Not only are 
generators generally more fuel efficient,  DC generators reduce the number of  onsite batteries needed; fewer batteries 
result in fewer environmental issues  
related to battery disposal. 
Hybrid generators for RVs
A hybrid generator set is a great  
example of how Cummins is using 
technology to reduce fuel consumption  
by recreational vehicle (RV) owners as  well as noise pollution.
By using a combination of inverters,  
a power unit and coach battery,  
Cummins Power Generation has been  able to reduce generator fuel consumption by up to 20 percent. Power Generation  has also been able to cut noise pollution  
by 5 decibels.
While this number might not seem very big, 
it represents about a 40 percent reduction in audible sound levels. In addition, the 
hybrid generator weighs up to 374 pounds 
less than the Company’s large diesel generators. This translates directly into better fuel economy for RVs, which in turn means a reduction in their carbon footprint.ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  39PRODUCT EmISSIONS
The on-highway charts for North America compare the estimated maximum allowable emissions by U.S. EPA  
standards and Cummins’ estimate of engine emissions for the past three years. Estimates are based on the  
number of engines, both heavy-duty and midrange, manufactured in the United States for on-highway use per year.
The figures in the off-highway charts are based on the number of midrange, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines  
produced to EPA standards for non-road uses.
10020030040050022003200
Nitrogen Oxides
NOx
 2009 2010 2011 2012
HydrocarbonsHC
 2009 2010 2011 2012
Carbon MonoxideCO
 2009 2010 2011 2012
Particulate MatterPM
 2009 2010 2011 2012. . . . . .
. . .
. . .
. . .
. . .
. . .
. . .
EPA allowed
Cummins produced
050100150200
0
24 4
28 1
11 .5511Non-road
 2009 2010 2011 2012
43 29 
High Horsepower Heavy-Duty
MidRange100 68
109 16
144 62
79 68Automotive 
(On-highway)
 2009 2010 2011 2012
Nitrogen Oxides+ HydrocarbonsNOx + HC
 2009 2010 2011 2012
Carbon MonoxideCO
 2009 2010 2011 2012Particulate MatterPM
 2009 2010 2011 20120100200300400500AUTOmOTIVE (ON-HIGHWAY) USEfUL LIfE EmISSIONS TOTAL 
in thousands of metric tons
NON-ROAD USEfUL LIfE EmISSIONS TOTAL 
in thousands of metric tonsDIESEL ENGINE VOLUmES in thousandsENVIRONmENT
40  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The ISX15 was the first engine to receive 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
certification for new greenhouse gas and fuel efficiency rules for on-highway engines 
that take effect in 2014.
The stationary diesel generators, meanwhile, 
received the EPA’s certification for the 
current 4i emission standards and qualify 
under the stricter Tier 4 Final requirements for off-highway engines that don’t go into 
effect until 2015.
“I am delighted to announce that our  
Tier 4 interim certified generator sets 
are Tier 4 Final ready and fully capable 
of meeting the most exacting EPA 
requirements three years ahead of 
schedule,” said Tony Satterthwaite, President of the Power Generation  Business and a Cummins Vice President.The generator sets range from 680 to  
2,750 kilowatts (kW), and include the 
industry-leading Mission Critical  2500 kW diesel generator set.
The ISX15 is the top-selling engine in  
the North American heavy-duty truck market. It will deliver higher levels of fuel 
efficiency and reliability in 2013. Efficiency 
improvements to the base engine include optimized combustion and high-efficiency 
water, fuel and lube pump systems.
Cummins’ products were early to market 
outside the United States, too. 
In September 2012, Cummins unveiled the  
Company’s next generation of diesel and  natural gas engines meeting Euro 6 emissions 
standards. Euro 6 is Europe’s most stringent 
emissions standard to date, applying to  all new vehicles starting in January 2014.  
The Euro 6 regulation is closely aligned  
with the U.S. EPA’s 2013 standards.
“The Euro 6 engines build on the technology 
and experience from EPA 2010, enabling 
us to develop near-zero emission products with the best possible fuel efficiency, running 
costs and durability,” said Neil Pattison, 
Director – Automotive Engine Business  for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.Early to market for ISx15 and  
stationary diesel generators
Cummins’ technical leadership was clearly on display  
in 2012 when the Company’s ISX15 engine and the  
entire range of Cummins Power Generation’s stationary  
high horsepower diesel generators met U.S. EPA  
regulations a year or more early.
Cummins’ stationary 
generators met federal 
emissions regulations  
three years early.ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  41A new bus inspired by the original double-
decker Routemasters and powered by a Cummins ISBe 4.5-litre engine, has carried 
locals and visitors using state-of-the-art 
hybrid technology.
Cummins engineers worked closely with 
Wrightbus in Northern Ireland, which won 
a contract in 2009 to build prototypes 
in keeping with London Mayor Boris Johnson’s vision of a city bus inspired  by the Routemasters but with features befitting the 21st Century.
Wrightbus is expected to build 600 of 
the new buses over the next four years, representing the largest order of hybrid buses ever placed in Europe.
The Cummins engine is connected to a 
Siemens hybrid transmission. The engine drives a generator which supplies energy  to a lithium-phosphate battery pack,  which in turn provides electrical current  
for new electric drive motors.
Regenerative braking feeds otherwise 
wasted kinetic energy back into the battery pack from the electric motors. The end 
result is the most environmentally friendly 
bus of its kind, improving air quality and reducing carbon emissions.“Cummins is pleased to work with Wrightbus and Transport for London on this exciting project,” said Neil Pattison, Director – 
Automotive Engine Business for Europe,  
the Middle East and Africa. “We are able  to provide a solution which delivers benefits for vehicle operations and the environment.”
Cummins’ ISBe 4.5-litre engine also powers 
Alexander Dennis’ Enviro 400 double-deck hybrid buses. Supported by the UK Green Bus Fund promoting low carbon buses, 
there are over 400 units in service in  
London and other major U.K. cities.New London buses celebrate  
the past, look to the future
Passengers travelling between the borough of Hackney and 
historic Victoria Station over the past year have gotten a 
glimpse of the greener future of London’s iconic bus system.
This new prototype  
bus celebrates the iconic 
Routemaster buses in 
London but includes many 
green features including 
Cummins engines.ENVIRONmENT
42  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The Rise employees work on a variety of 
tasks including the plant’s recycling efforts, 
which have increased significantly in recent 
years. Along with other steps, Cummins Power Generation in 2012 eliminated  
34 percent of the solid waste that had  
been going to landfills – an annual cost savings of $28,000.
The initiative is just one of many innovative 
ways Cummins facilities around the world are reducing, reusing and recycling the  
solid waste the Company produces.  
The most comprehensive study to date of waste handling at Cummins showed 
that nearly 90 percent of the waste the Company generated, or just over  
155,000 metric tons, was recycled in 2011.
Cummins continued at that rate in 2012. 
“Partners such as Rise along with the 
dedication and expertise of Cummins 
employees are the reason we’ve made 
significant improvements in our global  waste footprint in a relatively short period 
of time,” said Ernie Smith, Corporate 
Environmental Manager for Cummins. 
“However, there is still much to be done 
and it will require innovation, creative 
partnerships and most importantly, a widespread commitment to avoid waste  
in all aspects of our operations,” he said.
The 2011 analysis showed that about  
60 percent of the Company’s waste profile 
was iron and steel. Wood, used primarily  
in crates and pallets, accounted for about 14 percent and general refuse and 
cardboard each made up about 9 percent.
Reducing Cummins’ global waste footprint 
requires a focused effort from many 
functions within the business. Engineering 
teams, for example, are working on design improvements to reduce the amount of 
scrap metal produced through machining 
and stamping operations.Cummins innovates to reduce  
global waste footprint
In Fridley, Minn., Cummins is making significant strides to 
reduce production waste thanks in part to a partnership 
with Rise, Inc. The local not-for-profit helps create job 
opportunities for people who have employment barriers.
Joshua Williams (left) and 
Matthew Kopacek (right)  
are two of the workers from 
Rise, Inc. helping Cummins 
Power Generation significantly 
reduce the amount of waste 
it sends to landfills in the 
Minneapolis area.ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  43Cummins’ purchasing staff is developing 
sustainable packaging guidelines that are 
intended to encourage suppliers to minimize 
the amount of packaging materials used for incoming products. 
And office employees for several years have 
been working to reduce the amount of paper they use, while increasing recycling.
“Our focus on waste reduction is driven  
by our Environmental Management System (page 51) and has been embraced by our 
suppliers, customers and communities 
around the world,” Smith said. “As a result, we have collaborated to achieve 
considerable benefits by way of cost 
savings, increased productivity and  reduced environmental impacts.” 
Three Cummins plants have achieved  
“zero-disposal” status while others are nearing that accomplishment. Cummins 
defines a zero-disposal site as a facility  that reuses or recycles all byproducts in 
a useful manner, leaving nothing to be 
disposed of by landfill or incineration. 
The three zero-disposal sites are:
 »The Jamestown (N.Y.) Engine Plant
 »The Darlington (U.K.) Engine Plant
 »The Cummins Filtration Plant  
in Quimper, France.
The Company considers technologies  
that burn waste to create energy as a  
viable disposal option only after reuse  and management opportunities have  
been explored and the waste material 
contains an appropriate energy value.
Ultimately, Cummins’ goal is to reduce  
the environmental impacts associated  
with waste generation, so the management method used for a given waste stream is 
intended to minimize those impacts. Employees at the Columbus 
Engine Plant are known for 
their efforts to reduce waste 
sent to landfills. In 2012, 
they extended that effort 
by sponsoring a day when 
they asked Columbus, Ind. 
residents to drop off in the plant parking lot items like 
refrigerators, televisions and 
other items that individuals  
can find hard to recycle.
ENVIRONmENT
44  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Cummins is constantly looking for ways 
to shrink the Company’s environmental 
footprint and has established a new 
committee to develop a comprehensive plan with specific goals (page 65). 
In Company facilities, environmental 
management efforts are focused on the three main areas articulated in Cummins’ 
Corporate Environmental Policy:
 »Compliance
 »Pollution prevention
 »Resource conservationCummins Enterprise Environmental 
Management System (EMS) has been  
the primary driver for environmental  
footprint reductions and other improvements in Cummins facilities  
since its inception in 2003 and the  
global deployment that followed. 
The Company adopted an innovative 
model, deploying a common framework to 
ensure a similar look, feel and fundamental approach throughout the organization,  
with flexibility to allow individual sites  
and businesses to address opportunities and risks most important to them.  Practices
Cummins is committed to practicing good  
environmental stewardship in keeping with the  
Company’s mission that “everything we do leads  
to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment.” 
One way Cummins’ energy 
leaders save energy is by 
eliminating inappropriate uses 
of expensive compressed air 
and optimizing the efficiency  
of compressed air systems.ENVIRONmENTAL SUSTAINABILITY // PRACTICES
Cummins pursues environmental sustainability through its products,  
practices and partnerships. This report now takes an in-depth look at  
the Company’s practices to promote good environmental stewardship.ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  45Cummins’ EMS conforms to and goes 
beyond the ISO 14001 international 
environmental standards. 
In 2006, the Company set its first formal 
greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goal:  
a 25 percent GHG intensity reduction 
between 2005 and 2010 based on Cummins’ comprehensive GHG  
emissions footprint. The focus on  
energy and greenhouse gas represented the first Company-wide initiative of its kind  
targeting a specific set of environmental 
impacts around the globe. 
Cummins’ emerging eco-efficiency strategy 
involves improved target-setting in key 
focus areas, the development of tools to support site-level efforts and scorecards  
to track progress against objectives.
Here’s a look at what Cummins did  
in 2012 to reduce energy use and its  
impact on the air, land and water: 
 AIR, ENERGY AND CLImATE CHANGE
Cummins is a partner in the U.S. 
Department of Energy’s (DOE) Better 
Buildings, Better Plants Challenge, which is the industrial component of the Better 
Buildings Challenge. The challenge is 
a national leadership initiative that calls on chief executive officers, university 
presidents, and state and local leaders  
to significantly reduce energy use and  share the results of their energy  
reduction strategies.
The goal of the Better Buildings Challenge 
is to make American commercial and 
industrial buildings at least 20 percent  
more energy efficient by 2020. As a  partner, Cummins has committed to  
a 25 percent energy efficiency intensity 
reduction from 2005 to 2015, which equates to a 27 percent greenhouse  
gas (GHG) reduction.
This GHG figure differs from the Company’s 
previously announced goal of 40 percent -70%-50%0%50%100%
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Normalized GHG Emissions (intensity)
Normalized Emissions GoalActual GHG EmissionsCMI Revenue (2005 constant $)
GHG reduction
goal of -27%
Cummins is committed to 
reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions by 27 percent 
(adjusted for revenue) between 
2005 and 2015. Cummins sold  
an Ohio light-duty filtration facility where the Company 
had eliminated a potent GHG in 2008 so the 2015 goal has 
been adjusted.ENVIRONmENT
46  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
due to the sale of a business in which the 
Company had significantly eliminated GHG. 
The business, and its associated GHG 
reduction, was removed from Cummins’ 2005 baseline inventory, consistent with 
accepted GHG inventory accounting,  
and therefore from the Company’s  2015 goal accounting.
In 2012, global absolute energy 
consumption at Cummins dropped  
by 2 percent compared to 2011,  
and greenhouse gas emissions fell  by just over 3 percent. During the  
same time period, the Company’s global  
energy intensity (total energy/total revenue) increased by almost 2 percent and  
GHG emissions intensity (total GHG/total 
revenue) increased by about 1 percent. 
Cummins has a comprehensive investment 
plan designed to achieve the Company’s 
2015 energy and GHG intensity goals. Cummins is focusing its efforts in four areas: »Improve existing facilities:  
Cummins has reduced the energy intensity of the Company’s facilities by 
almost 34 percent from 2005 to 2012 
by targeting high-return opportunities. Additional improvements will be more difficult and expensive to implement. 
Cummins has allocated $20.7 million 
in capital over 2013-2015 to install sub meters, expand control systems, and upgrade or replace inefficient equipment.
 »Recover test energy: In 2012, the Company’s energy use and GHG footprint improvements were offset somewhat by increased product development testing. 
This trend will accelerate as Cummins 
launches high horsepower development programs. To mitigate this impact, the Company has allocated $19.3 million 
from 2013 to 2015 to install test cell 
energy recovery systems at tech  centers and manufacturing plants.ENERGY RECOVERY
Capture waste heat for  
productive use elsewheremACHINERY & EQUIPmENT
Substantial improvements in motors,  
pumps and compressed air systemsBUILDING ENVELOPE
Efficient windows, doors, walls  
and roof reduce heat gain or loss POWER mANAGEmENT
Systems and procedures  
 for energy savings
LIGHTING
High efficiency “smart” lighting  
reduces operating costs
HEATING & COOLING
High efficiency heating, cooling  
and recirculation systems
fUEL USAGE
Energy efficient boilers,  
 burners and test cells 
How Cummins saves energy
Conserving energy is a key issue at Cummins.  
These seven themes provide structure for  
the Company’s energy reduction efforts,  
saving more than $21 million annually.ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  47 »New construction: Cummins uses the 
most stringent locally applicable codes, green building certifications, and ASHRAE 
189.1 as the design basis for its new 
construction. By using this approach  with Cummins’ Global Building Standards, the Company expects to 
improve its new construction energy 
impact through 2015 by 21 percent  over what Cummins would have built  just meeting local building codes. 
 »Energy management: Cummins 
continues to drive site-level energy 
efficiency through the Company’s Energy Champions program. Energy Champions and Energy Leaders are trained to find 
low and no cost energy improvements at 
their sites. Cummins has launched pilot projects to meet ISO 50001 international energy standards at three sites globally (a fourth is planned in 2014), with a 
North Carolina plant piloting the U.S. 
Department of Energy’s Superior  Energy Performance program. 
Together, these efforts are projected to 
reduce GHG emissions by 187,000 metric 
tons of CO
2e (carbon dioxide equivalent)  
per year and reduce energy costs by  
nearly $16 million per year.
Outstanding energy efficiency performance 
is recognized through the Cummins energy 
awards program. Twenty-eight projects 
entered the 2012 program from nine countries. Eight additional projects  
were recognized as best practices,  
ranging from improvements in handling compressed air to implementing  
geothermal energy systems.LAND
In 2011, Cummins comprehensively 
characterized and evaluated its global 
waste footprint. The Company’s waste management strategy focuses on reducing 
waste, increasing recycling rates and 
aggressively avoiding disposal as a management method. 
Cummins is looking for continued 
improvements in waste management through its supply chain. Packaging  
waste is a key target because it represents 
approximately 25 percent of the Company’s overall waste footprint. Cummins is 
establishing formal packaging guidelines 
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Total disposed waste
Disposed waste 
normalized 
to labor hours
0500010000150002000025000
Total disposed waste
in metric tons
-30%-15%0%15%30%
Intensity change Metric tons
 
2008 18,964 MT 
2009 14,892 MT 
2010 17,708 MT  
2011 18,879 MT 2012 21,325 MT
* Distribution Business Unit waste included only in 2012 totals.ENVIRONmENT
48  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Recycled metals
in thousands of metric tons
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
 
Copper & 
brass 0.67 0.58 0.73 1.00 0.82 
Aluminum 1.07 0.75 0.68 0.87 1.02
Iron 104.86 78.52 97.25 103.36 97.25 020406080100120
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012U.S. process hazardous waste
in metric tons
050100150200250
-60%-40%-20%0%20%40%60%
Intensity change
 Metric tons
Total hazardous waste
Hazardous waste 
normalized to labor hours 
2008 198 MT 
2009 159 MT 
2010 97 MT  
2011 100 MT 2012 104 MTand working with internal and external 
suppliers to both “right size” packaging and 
promote reusable and recyclable materials. 
Scrap metal is another area of focus, 
encompassing 55 percent of the waste 
Cummins generated in 2012. The Company’ s 
manufacturing and engineering groups  are exploring opportunities to improve  
the efficiency of Cummins’ machining  
and stamping operations. 
Using 2008 as a base year, Cummins 
disposal increased by about 12 percent  
in absolute terms, while experiencing a  21 percent reduction in disposal intensity, 
normalized to labor hours over the same reporting period. Cummins continued  
an almost 90 percent recycling rate. 
The Distribution Business Unit waste 
numbers are included in 2012, but not  prior years. 
Cummins has reduced process hazardous 
waste generation in the United States  by about 48 percent, on an absolute basis, 
since 2008. In 2012, Cummins reduced 
labor-normalized process derived hazardous waste by 56 percent from 2008 levels. 
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012Recycled – non-metals
in thousands of metric tons
 
Paper 0.43 0.43 0.39 0.58 0.70 
Plastic 0.93 0.80 1.10 1.35 1.26
Cardboard 10.99 8.64 11.49 14.53 16.36
Wood 17.87 12.91 17.82 23.58 24.7401020304050ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  49This substantial reduction was achieved 
through a multi-faceted effort that 
included product substitutions, improved 
waste segregation, improved inventory management and increased efficiency  
in painting operations. Several facilities,  
for example, have successfully replaced  solvent-based paints with water- 
based paints. 
Cummins has completed multiple projects 
to redesign manufacturing processes, 
improve waste segregation and increase 
employee engagement and supplier partnerships to reduce waste. WATER
Water continues to be a global priority  
for both environmental and social 
sustainability. The world is recognizing that water is vital to food production, 
sanitation, power generation, raw materials 
processing, manufacturing, transportation systems, and more. Cummins continues 
to develop programs that navigate the 
complexities and challenges unique to water management. 
Cummins puts a priority on analyzing 
metrics that help the Company make  data-based decisions. Cummins uses a 
2008 baseline for manufacturing sites and 
was expanded to use Distribution Business Unit (DBU) water use metrics in 2009. 
In 2012, the Company once again  
reduced both total water use and water use normalized to labor hours, by approximately 
3.5 percent and 2 percent, respectively.  
Over the past five years, Cummins’ total water use reduction is approximately  
24 percent on an absolute basis or  
47 percent normalized to labor hours  over that period.
To sustain this success, Cummins 
facilities continue to use tools that include conducting facility water balances (a formal 
exercise that defines water intakes, uses, 
and discharges) and water scorecards combining both leading and lagging 
metrics. During the past year, the  
Company also developed a method to help sites evaluate their water efficiency 
compared to their peers. 
Total water use
Water withdrawn 
normalized 
to labor hours 
2008 1.38 B 
2009 1.15 B 
2010 1.14 B  
2011 1.08 B 2012 1.05 B
0.00.40.81.21.6
Total water withdrawn 
in billion gallons
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012-50%-30%-10%10%30%50%
Intensity change Billions of gallons
ENVIRONmENT
50  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Using key operating metrics such as 
plant population, square footage, and 
type of operations (such as office, heavy 
manufacturing, light manufacturing, or testing), Cummins is better able 
to understand its greatest internal 
opportunities for both improvement  and benchmarking.
The Company has developed a water 
strategy consisting of four key components: conservation, business risk, community 
engagement and supply chain.
Cummins’ water efforts go well beyond a 
conservation focus. In 2011, the Company 
conducted a global risk screen, leading to 
water source assessments at Cummins’ highest priority sites located in both India 
and Mexico, two regions that face water 
scarcity challenges. Community efforts have promoted water efficiency in Wuxi, 
China, and water supply development in 
Manjarsumbha Village, India. 
Cummins is engaged in several key projects 
that will further develop the Company’s 
water management efforts by:
 »Performing water assessments at  
31 select facilities to better define  
specific water conservation and  
water risk mitigation opportunities. 
 »Embedding water risk management considerations throughout business 
processes including site selection, 
building construction, manufacturing process selection and supplier management.
 »Developing processes for aligning  
the Company’s water management 
programs with specific community  needs, focused on water scarce areas.0100200300400500600700Total GHG emissions
in thousands of metric tons CO2e
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Mobile sources 30 28 29 30 30
Fugitive SF6, CO2 6 7 6 7 7
Stationary combustion 190 171 181 182 177
Electricity, other 419 379 414 429 410
  U.S. 115 114 112 115 111
 Non-U.S. 81 63 75 74 73
   U.S. 312 278 293 300 279
 Non-U.S. 107 101 121 129 131  2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
 DIRECT
INDIRECTTotal GHG emissions
in thousands of metric tons CO2e
U.S. and Non-U.S. GHG emissionsin thousands of metric tons CO
2eENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  51HEALTH, SAfETY  
AND ENVIRONmENTAL mANAGEmENT SYSTEm
Cummins has integrated health and  
safety processes and procedures with  the environment in accordance with  
OHSAS Safety Management Standard 
Integration to create the Enterprise  Health, Safety and Environmental 
Management System (HSEMS).
By the end of 2012, the Company’s 
independent auditor certified 82 entities, 
representing 131 sites and corporate 
offices as part of the HSEMS. Cummins HSEMS scope has been extended to 
encompass manufacturing joint ventures 
and distributors. They are committed to registering their sites by the end of 2015.
Beginning in 2013, by incorporating 
practices and procedures into the  HSEMS to meet the new ISO 50001  
Energy Management Standard, Cummins 
will deliver a common global approach  and make energy efficiency standard 
practice across the Company.Broad objectives and targets are set at 
the corporate level to establish direction 
for critical corporate initiatives. Cummins’ 
business units and sites then build upon them to establish site-specific objectives 
that align with Company priorities but 
address site-specific needs and challenges.
In 2011, environmental improvements as 
a result of specifically-set objectives and 
targets completed totaled $14.5 million. 
As the Company’s HSEMS continues to 
mature, Cummins has aligned its efforts 
along key resource areas including green-house gases, water and waste. These focus 
areas drive specific activities such as:
 »Water balances: Sites developed a 
water balance to identify key uses and discharges of water.
 »Waste inventories: Sites developed comprehensive waste inventories to  help minimize waste disposal by reducing, reusing and recycling.
 »Energy: Cummins leveraged  
the HSEMS to ensure sites make  
energy and GHG reduction a priority.
Cummins GHG emissions by country Cummins GHG emissions by business unit
United States  66%
United Kingdom  9%India  9%
China  6%
Other  5%
Mexico 4%Europe  1%Engine Business 60%Power Generation 11%Filtration 7%Fuel Systems 6%Distribution 6%Turbo Technologies 5%Corporate 3%Emission Solutions 2%Cummins GHG emissions by country Cummins GHG emissions by businessENVIRONmENT
52  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013AUDITOR CERTIfICATION PROGRAm
Environmental goals are measured through 
a structured audit process. A third party 
auditor, Bureau Veritas Certification (BVC), certifies the Company’s enterprise system 
and the data Cummins collects. 
Cummins supplements the audit sampling 
conducted by BVC by conducting annual 
audits using internally trained auditors. 
Every site is audited on an annual basis.
Since the launch of the Company’s internal 
auditor certification program in 2006, more 
than 140 HSE and other leaders have been trained. Of those, 69 have been certified as 
Lead Auditors after successfully completing 
a series of audits as a team member and  as an audit leader. This structured audit 
program validates performance and 
provides a mechanism for HSE auditors  to share best practices. 
HEALTH, SAfETY AND 
ENVIRONmENT AWARDS
In 2005, Cummins created the Health, 
Safety and Environment Awards to recognize 
employees and sites that excel in the 
commitment to world class performance and environmental stewardship.
Winners of the 2012 awards presented their 
projects to the Cummins Board of Directors and participated in an exhibition that 
provided an opportunity for others in the 
Company to duplicate these best practices.
The growing number and quality of the 
projects demonstrates that Cummins 
employees embrace and celebrate environmental stewardship.Cummins tries to be as transparent as possible about its environmental record. Over the past year, the Company  
had a significant spill in China and inadvertently installed  
some air handling equipment at its plant in Seymour, Ind.,  that did not conform precisely to the permit then in effect.  Here is more on both cases:
Chongqing spill
The Chongqing Cummins Engine Co. Ltd. (CCEC) in 
Chongqing, China, released an estimated 3,000 to  
3,500 gallons of untreated wastewater into the Fenghuang  
Xi stream in March 2012. Upon discovering the release from  a wastewater treatment tank, plant officials immediately  
closed a valve that was identified as the source, plugged 
rainwater outfalls at each transfer station on the site with cement and cleaned up the spill.
The Company will pay about a $30,000 fine in addition to 
cleanup and restoration costs. While the pathway associated with the wastewater treatment system has been effectively 
eliminated, Cummins has increased training at the site to 
ensure personnel in key roles understand the plant’s  potential environmental impact and how to avoid problems.
Seymour permit
Cummins announced in October 2012 that it paid an  
$11,250 fine to the state of Indiana because of the technical 
non-conformance of a new air-handling unit and other equipment at the Company’s Seymour (Ind.) Engine Plant. 
The equipment installed at the plant as part of a $219 million 
expansion did not precisely conform to what was described  in the Company’s air permit request.
Upon discovery of the discrepancy, Cummins notified the 
Indiana Department of Environmental Management to inform the agency of the issue as well as the measures taken to 
avoid reoccurrence of the problem. Those measures included 
broadening the site’s environmental leadership team. Cummins has also obtained the proper permits for the equipment.fOR THE RECORDENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  53At Cummins New and ReCon Parts  
in San Luis Potosí, plant officials are 
monitoring soil moisture in green areas  
to create efficient irrigation methods.
They harvest rainwater from a cistern  
with a capacity of 3,612 cubic meters. 
Meanwhile, 17,000 square meters  of grass were replaced with native  
vegetation that consumes less water.
The plant has also been experimenting  
with a gel that looks like grains of sugar  
that can absorb and retain water,  
reducing the need for irrigation in  green areas by as much as 50 percent.
These steps and others are making a 
difference in the plant’s water consumption.
“In 2009, water used for irrigation was  
47 percent of our total consumption,”  
said Edna Espinoza, Environmental Engineer at the facility. “In 2012,  
irrigation was only 25 percent.”
She said since July 2012, the plant  
has been able to limit the water it uses for 
irrigation to what it collects from the cistern 
and the plant’s waste water treatment plant, saving the equivalent of 10 Olympic-sized 
swimming pools per year.Meanwhile, the Fuel Systems plant at 
Juárez has established a greenhouse  
that is irrigated with recycled water  
from the production line after it passes through a treatment plant.
“The trees at the greenhouse are  
eventually donated to parks, schools  and other local institutions,” said Ariana 
Silva, an employee at the plant.
About 20 employees created the 
greenhouse, which was inaugurated  
in 2012 by Ray Amlung, Vice President  
and General Manager of Fuel Systems,  and his leadership team.mexico plants making  
wise use of water
Water can be scarce in certain regions of Mexico,  
but Cummins plants in the country have implemented  
a variety of initiatives to use the resource wisely.
Cummins’ Fuel Systems 
plant at Juárez, Mexico has 
established a greenhouse  
that is irrigated with recycled 
water from the production  
line after it passes through  
a treatment plant.ENVIRONmENT
54  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Cummins built its Middle East headquarters 
in Dubai in 2010 and achieved LEED  
gold certification in 2012 when it finished 
the Rebuild Center next door – the two  are connected by a bridge. Among its  
many environmentally sensitive features,  
the complex has its own wastewater treatment plant where oil, fuel and water  
are separated and water is re-circulated  
for engine washing.
“We knew green buildings were important 
to Cummins and to the environmental 
challenges of Dubai, and we wanted to make our new rebuild center a model of 
resource conservation in the free zone,” 
said Rachid Ouenniche, Managing Director of Cummins Distribution Business  in the Middle East. 
The new complex is just one example of 
how Cummins Distribution Business, which sells and distributes Cummins-branded 
products and services all over the world, is 
working to shrink its environmental footprint.
In Sydney, Australia, for example, the 
Wetherill Park distributor won the best 
energy efficiency project in Cummins’ annual environmental awards competition in 2012. 
The distributor reduced its electricity use 
by 44 percent and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 47 percent. The distributor 
implemented facility-wide improvements Practicing environmental  
stewardship around the world
Rebuilding high horsepower engines is an inherently 
“green” activity, potentially tripling the life of an engine. 
The Distribution Business Unit’s High Horsepower Master 
Rebuild Center in Dubai, however, doesn’t stop there in 
practicing good environmental stewardship. 
An engine rebuild is a 
manufacturing process 
that includes the complete 
disassembly, cleaning, 
inspection and replacing  
of major components of an 
engine. Cummins does high 
horsepower engine rebuilds  at its Middle East center. ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  55including a solar array with LCD displays  
to keep employees informed of the 
electricity generated each day as well  
as cumulative totals.
New lighting not only saved the site money, 
it also increased employee satisfaction as 
the lighting levels increased 70 percent  with less reliance on portable lighting. 
In Mt. Gambier, Australia, Distribution 
employees used the opportunity to replace a nearly 30-year old facility to develop a 
new branch that would reduce energy and 
water consumption, prevent pollution and enhance safety.
The new facility features a solar-powered 
hot water heater, rainwater harvesting,  an environmentally friendly septic system, 
a system to capture any spills that might 
occur on the site and safer storage  of shop oils and coolants. It also has 
improved lighting and a better waste 
separation and handling facility.  Electricity use and CO
2 emissions have  
been reduced by 83 percent and total  
water use has dropped 52 percent.
After Cummins increased its ownership 
in Cummins Central Power in the United 
States, which covers Nebraska, Iowa, 
South Dakota, Kansas, Missouri, and Illinois, the distributor wasted no time in 
joining the Company’s energy efficiency efforts. It has implemented lighting 
upgrades in five branches using  Cummins Central Energy Efficiency  
Fund, increasing employee engagement 
and satisfaction significantly.
Cummins environmental leaders are 
encouraged by what’s happening  
because they believe it demonstrates that the Company’s mission “that everything  
we do leads to a cleaner, healthier, safer  
environment” is being embraced by Cummins employees around the world.
That’s certainly true at the complex in Dubai. 
It is one of the few sites in the sprawling Jebel Ali free trade zone that has received 
gold certification from LEED (Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design), one of the most recognized seals of approval for 
energy efficient buildings in the world.
The Cummins complex includes such  
things as a delivery door that quickly 
opens and closes to keep cooler air from 
escaping, reducing energy consumption, and an automated parts and component 
cleaning tank with a reservoir that enables 
the cleaning chemical and rinse water to  be used over and over. Water conservation 
is a key issue, according to Ouenniche.
“Dubai is a very water stressed area,”  
he said, “and we often say that water  
here is even more precious than oil.”
The Cummins Middle East 
headquarters complex is one 
of the few sites in the Jebel  
Ali free trade zone in Dubai  
that has received gold 
certification from LEED 
(Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design).ENVIRONmENT
56  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013A “deep energy retrofit” project is underway 
at the nearly one million square foot facility 
as part of a corporate-wide commitment 
to improving energy efficiency. The project combines a suite of energy conservation 
measures and necessary infrastructure 
upgrades to achieve significant energy savings and optimal systems performance 
for the entire facility.
Cummins is showcasing the four-year, 
$23.8 million project as part of the Company’s participation in the Department of Energy’s Better Buildings, Better Plants 
Challenge. The Challenge provides technical 
assistance to commercial and industrial building owners.
The Company anticipates the energy 
savings from just the energy efficiency-measures in the project will be more than 
61 billion BTUs, which translates into  
about $604,000 in annual savings. Strategic approach to energy saves 
millions for Jamestown, N.Y., plant
Major infrastructure upgrades can be very capital  
intensive, and the Jamestown Engine Plant (JEP)  
in Western New York hadn’t seen many over the  
last 40 years. All that changed in 2012, however,  
including the plant’s approach to energy use.
The Jamestown Engine 
Plant has taken a strategic 
approach to energy efficiency 
that combines infrastructure 
upgrades like a new roof  
with specific energy  
efficiency improvements. ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  57When all factors are taken into account,  
the $3.3 million of the project specifically 
for energy efficiency is expected to pay for 
itself in about four years. Nearly half of the project’s overall cost went towards a new 
roof with improved thermal insulation.
Cummins acquired the Jamestown Engine 
Plant in 1974, though the facility dates 
back to 1968. Much of the original base 
infrastructure within the plant remains.  This includes three large gas-fired steam 
boilers, related distribution piping, 26 large 
heating and ventilating units, 29 dock heaters and five snow melt systems. 
“This equipment has become unreliable, 
incurring significant repair costs and operational interruptions,” said Randy 
Myers, facilities manager for JEP .  
“Putting energy efficiency upgrades on  older equipment would not have given us 
the best results. We believe implementing 
a phased, whole building energy and infrastructure improvement project is  
our best investment.” 
Prior to the project, the plant partnered 
with Duke Energy One and Mazza Energy 
Conservation Services to complete a 
thorough site assessment. The most significant uses of energy were primarily 
facility based and included air handlers,  
air conditioning systems, ventilation systems, exhaust fans, dock heaters,  
and steam users. Other pieces of 
equipment were also evaluated.
The energy efficiency components of 
the project include heating and cooling 
upgrades, compressed air optimization and controls upgrades. Steam is being almost entirely eliminated, replaced by direct fired 
gas units. A few localized manufacturing 
processes, however, will require three  small steam generators to meet limited  
local variable demand. 
The Jamestown plant is very actively 
engaged in other projects in keeping with 
Cummins’ environmental mission. The plant 
was the first Cummins site to achieve zero disposal status (no waste disposed in a 
landfill), a significant accomplishment.  
JEP’s water projects include controlling water run-off, eliminating all ground 
contamination and enhancing wastewater 
treatment effectiveness before the water goes to the sewer district. 
New cooling equipment will be installed, 
saving about 4 million gallons of water annually. The plant has moved to use  
more environmentally friendly chemicals  
and a tree planting initiative is achieving both site beautification and carbon capture.
Officials did a site assessment 
to determine the plant’s most 
significant uses of energy.  
Air handlers was one big  
user, so the plant installed  
four new, more efficient air 
handlers in 2012.ENVIRONmENT
58  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY
Four of the Company’s 10 environmental 
sustainability principles focus on 
partnerships with legislative and  regulatory entities to develop sound  public policy to reduce Cummins’  
impact on the environment. They are:
 »Help develop responsible regulations.
 »Promote technology development.
 »Advocate for incentives to  
accelerate progress.
 »Support a balanced global approach.
These principles were put into action 
during the development of the first-ever 
greenhouse gas (GHG) and fuel efficiency standards for heavy-duty and medium-duty 
vehicles in the United States. Cummins was 
very active in the development of the rule for more than four years. The Company formed 
a stakeholder group with other companies 
in the industry, wrote a regulatory framework white paper, supported the rule  
 publicly when it was proposed and  
provided extensive feedback during  
the comment period. 
The rule was finalized in August 2011,  
with new standards that take effect for engines and vehicles starting in 2014.  
In October 2012, Cummins announced it 
was the first manufacturer to receive U.S. EPA certification for the new GHG engine 
standards, one year earlier than required. 
Even as regulators and industry are  
in the early stages of implementing the 
new standards, known as Phase 1, work has already begun on the Phase 2 rule. 
Cummins is once again taking an active  
role in helping to develop the regulation. 
The Company is collaborating with a variety 
of stakeholders to develop a comprehensive 
framework of complementary engine  and vehicle regulations building upon  
the solid foundation of the Phase 1 rule 
while recognizing GHG and fuel efficiency benefits from technologies not considered 
by the first rule. Partnerships and policy
Cummins’ partnerships have helped the Company  
meet its product emissions goals, use energy more 
efficiently and much more. Cummins’ policy advocacy  
has helped bring environmental solutions to the 
marketplace. Here’s a look at just a few examples:ENVIRONmENTAL SUSTAINABILITY // P ARTNERSHIPS
Cummins pursues environmental sustainability through its products,  
practices and partnerships. Now this report takes an in-depth look at  
how the Company partners with other groups to protect the environment.ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  59Cummins’ environmental sustainability 
principles shape the Company’s actions  
not only in the United States, but around  
the world. Cummins participates in the Global Commercial Vehicle Industry  
Forum, a group of European, North 
American and Japanese manufacturers  of heavy-duty vehicles and engines.  
At the group’s 10th meeting in Tokyo in 
late 2012, key topics included regulatory harmonization, GHG reductions and fuel 
efficiency improvements.
Cummins is also becoming more involved 
in GHG and fuel efficiency regulatory 
development in Europe, China and other 
regions of the world. The Company has dedicated resources to focus specifically 
on the policies involving GHG and fuel 
efficiency regulations for the Company’s products around the world.This will help better coordinate the Company’s global activities in developing 
responsible regulations that promote 
technologies for more efficient products with lower GHG emissions.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPmENT 
COLLABORATION 
Cummins continues to build upon its 
longstanding partnerships with the U.S. 
Department of Energy (DOE) and other 
federal and state agencies to develop advances in product energy efficiency. 
Previous Cummins programs with the DOE 
and others have led to both evolutionary and breakthrough technologies and 
analytical approaches, speeding up the time 
for commercialization of vehicles and power systems based on advanced combustion 
engines and emission control technologies.                                                                            
Environmental
SustainabilityPrinciplesDevelop
environmentallysustainablesupply chains
Grow and 
develop new 
businessesDevelop clean, 
efﬁcient products
Harness the
energy of 
employeesMake work spaces
green spaces
Advocate for
incentives to accelerate progressSupport a balancedglobal approachHelp developresponsible
regulations
Engage in
the communityPromote
technologyCompany actions for products, businesses, employees and communities  
Public policy effortsENVIRONMENTAL STAKEHOLDER AREASSUPPLY CHAIN
EXTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS
& MARKETINGCUSTOMERS /PRODUCTS IN-USE
EMPLOYEE &COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENTDESIGN FOR
ENVIRONMENT
BUSINESS AND 
TECHNOLOGYSTRATEGY
Cummins’ 10 Environmental 
Sustainability Principles guide 
Company actions regarding 
products, operations, 
employees, communities  
and public policy efforts.ENVIRONmENT
60  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The Company’s current public-private 
projects involving DOE, except where 
noted, include:
 »The SuperTruck initiative (page 26),  
which demonstrates the power  in integrating breakthrough engine 
efficiency improvements with Class  
8 truck design improvements, including advanced aerodynamics. During testing  in 2012, the concept truck recorded a more than 60 percent gain in freight 
efficiency, an important metric in the 
transportation industry.
 »The ATLAS (Advanced Technology Light Automotive Systems) project, whose 
goal is to develop a new light-duty diesel 
that achieves at least a 40 percent fuel economy improvement over a gasoline V8 engine that the diesel engine could possibly replace.
 »CHP , a joint Cummins Power Generation/ Engine Business program, is delivering a packaged natural gas based Combined Heat and Power system for commercial 
and light industrial applications,  
achieving more than 80 percent combined efficiency.
 »ARES (Advanced Reciprocating  Engine Systems) is a multifaceted 
research program Cummins is part  
of that involves engine manufacturers, research laboratories, universities and the government. The program is closing 
in on its final phase of maximum engine 
efficiency and low emissions from  natural gas reciprocating engines  for power generation. »The Ultra-Low Carbon Powertrain program, a partnership with the California Energy Commission, supports Cummins 
development of a downsized medium-
duty engine/powertrain optimized for E85 ethanol. The project target is a 50 percent GHG emissions reduction compared to a 
diesel-powered baseline vehicle.
Underlying Cummins’ system-integration 
programs is a valuable portfolio of 
collaborative research and development 
agreements that team and fund world  class researchers at the DOE’s system  
of national laboratories with their 
counterparts at Cummins.
They jointly work on such things as 
combustion modeling and diagnostics, 
materials science and exhaust catalysis fundamentals, biofuels and more.
GOVERNmENT RELATIONS
The Company’s Government Relations 
staff continues to advocate globally for products and technologies that benefit the 
environment. These include fuel efficient 
generators, combined heat and power systems and natural gas engines.  
Cummins is also active in efforts to  
remove barriers to remanufacturing  and remanufactured goods globally.
In the United States, the Company  
is leading a coalition whose aim is to  secure continued funding for the Diesel 
Emissions Reduction Act (DERA), which 
provides grants or loans to assist local governments and others in purchasing 
diesel-powered engines to meet more 
stringent emission standards or install emission reduction systems. 
ENVIRONmENTENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  61
Collaborating with customers  
for better performance
Since 2004, Cummins has collaborated with its end user truck fleet  
customers on 94 customer-focused Six Sigma projects, which saved  88 million gallons of fuel and avoided 888,336 tons of CO
2 emissions.  
That’s equivalent to taking 185,000 cars off the road. Here are a few  other ways the Company engages our customers to improve performance.
Fleet management
Fleet managers can analyze engine 
data for variations between drivers or 
trucks, looking for trends that can aid 
driver coaching.
Fuel economy reFerence  
library tools
Customers can access information describing 
the best fuel economy configuration for electronic 
parameters, transmission, tires and other factors.
PowerSPec
Helps customers specify the 
correct vehicle and electronic 
parameters using inputs such as 
vehicle weight and engine type to determine proper axle and transmission configuration.
Greater fuel economy: 
enGine fine-tuninG
Greater fuel economy  
through vehicle specifications, 
calibration and hardware. Cummins can also help with powertrain integration and 
accessory management.
Greater fuel economy:  
driver assistance
Road Speed Governors  
and Cruise Control limit 
maximum speed, saving fuel. Smart Torque minimizes the down shifts required to  
maintain speed.
Fleet management
Fleet managers can analyze engine 
data for variations between drivers  
or trucks, looking for trends that can aid driver coaching.
Fuel economy reFerence  
library tools
Customers can access information describing 
the best fuel economy configuration for electronic 
parameters, transmission, tires and other factors.
PowerSPec
Helps customers specify the 
correct vehicle and electronic 
parameters using inputs such as 
vehicle weight and engine type to determine proper axle and transmission configuration.
Greater fuel economy: 
enGine fine-tuninG
Greater fuel economy  
through advanced integration 
with the vehicle, with increased communication between systems for maximum  
fuel economy. 
Greater fuel economy:  
driver assistance
Cummins’ electronic  
features encourage drivers to 
maintain fuel efficient habits.  Smart Torque minimizes  the down shifts required  
to maintain speed.ENVIRONmENT
62  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
ADVISORY COUNCIL
Cummins seeks advice from its Science and 
Technology Advisory Council in developing products to comply with various standards, 
reduce the Company’s environmental 
footprint and meet customer demands.
The Council, formed in 1993, has given the 
Company access to some of the country’s 
leading scientific experts and policymakers from the worlds of academia, industry and 
government. The Council was restructured 
in 2010 to make it easier to access a broader group of international specialists 
and align their expertise with the specific 
topics being addressed by the Council  at a particular time.
The permanent council members are:
 »Chairman Dr. Gerald Wilson,  
former Dean of Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 »Dr. Harold Brown, former U.S. Secretary 
of Defense and former President of the 
California Institute of Technology. 
Other senior international scientists and 
engineers are invited to participate as 
advisors depending on the topic.
The Safety, Environment and Technology 
Committee of the Cummins Board of 
Directors also advises senior leaders   
 
 and the technical leadership  of Cummins regarding:
 »Environmental and technological 
strategies, compliance programs  and major projects as they relate  to the Company and its products.
 »Public policy developments, strategies 
and positions taken by the Company 
with respect to safety, as well as environmental and technological  matters that significantly impact  
the Company or its products.
 »Progress of strategic environmental 
programs and policies.
ACADEmIC PARTNERSHIPS
Cummins partners with hundreds of 
universities around the world to assist the Company with research and development.
For example, the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology’s Environmentally Benign Manufacturing Group is investigating  
how Cummins uses energy to make  
and manufacture engine components. 
Specifically, the university is looking at 
the energy used to manufacture different 
camshaft designs to understand just how much design decisions can affect energy 
use. The steps taken in this process will 
be used to create a design-for-low-energy methodology, complete with Life Cycle 
Assessment tools for designers to use  
to make energy-conscious decisions  during the first stages of engine design.ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  63AmERICAN ENERGY  
INNOVATION COUNCIL
In 2010, then Cummins Chairman and CEO 
Tim Solso joined several key U.S. business leaders serving as founding members on 
the American Energy Innovation Council, a 
group advocating for development of clean energy to boost the nation’s economic 
competitiveness. Other members included 
Microsoft founder Bill Gates and Jeff Immelt, Chairman and CEO of General Electric.
Current Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger 
has continued Cummins’ leadership role in this group. Cummins, like AEIC, 
believes that government and business 
working together to address technological leadership, energy security, economic 
prosperity and environmental protection  
is the most effective way to ensure  mutual success. 
Recent staff case studies involved  
topics such as unconventional gas production and advanced diesel engines. 
Another case study interviewed Cummins’ 
Dr. John Wall, Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, among more than a  
dozen research and development leaders  
at innovative companies. The goal of the study was to learn how innovation-
driven businesses structure their research 
and development operations and what government can do to make a public policy 
environment that is favorable to long-term 
investments in research and development by private firms. The URL is http://www.
americanenergyinnovation.org.Cummins also sits on the President’s 
Council of Resources for the Future,  
the Clean Air Act Advisory Council,  
and the North American Council for  Freight Efficiency.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 
Cummins takes a number of steps to  
report on its environmental performance  
to the public and work with other 
companies to share best practices. 
For the past eight years, the Company 
has participated in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP), an institutional investor consortium that seeks to encourage  
greater public environmental reporting 
among companies. 
CDP asks companies to provide details 
on their carbon emissions, their response 
to the impact of climate change on their markets and regulatory environment, their 
use of energy and planning for the future.
In addition, Cummins is a member of the 
Business Roundtable’s S.E.E. (Society, 
Environment and Economy) Change 
initiative, which encourages member companies to lead by example and  
adopt business strategies and projects  
that measurably improve society,  the environment and the economy. 
Cummins has been a regular contributor  
to the Roundtable’s annual sustainability report, including the 2013 report “Doing 
Well by Doing Good.”ENVIRONmENT
64  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The Monarch Beverage Company is 
partnering with Cummins and several  
other companies on the project, which  
will include an on-site compressed  
natural gas fueling station.
“As a family-owned Hoosier company,  
we are excited to partner with such 
innovative companies to strengthen  
the presence of compressed natural  gas powered vehicles in Indiana,” said  
Phil Terry, CEO at Monarch Beverage. 
The decision puts Monarch on the leading 
edge of the movement in the United States 
toward truck fleets fueled by compressed natural gas. The natural gas option is 
especially attractive to local and regional companies whose trucks return home  
at the end of the work day where they  
can be refueled.
Monarch, which serves parts of Indiana, 
Ohio, Illinois and Kentucky, expects to  
have 100 trucks fueled by natural gas, reducing its consumption of diesel fuel  
by 800,000 gallons annually and its  
fuel expense by more than 60 percent.
“This partnership demonstrates our 
commitment to the communities we serve 
and our commitment to creating a cleaner, 
healthier and safer environment,” said Jim 
Arthurs, President, Cummins Westport Inc. 
The December, 2012 announcement was 
made at Monarch’s gleaming distribution 
center on the eastside of Indianapolis.  
A two-story inflatable globe stood to the side of the stage representing one ton of 
carbon dioxide (CO
2), a key contributor  
to global warming. 
Monarch estimates the transition to natural 
gas engines will reduce the CO2 emitted  
into the atmosphere by 1,500 tons per year.fleet reduces global warming  
with natural gas engines
Indiana’s largest beer and wine distributor announced  
in 2012 it will convert 85 percent of its heavy-duty  
truck fleet to Cummins Westport engines fueled by  
compressed natural gas.
Monarch Beverage CEO Phil 
Terry announces his company 
will convert most of its fleet of 
trucks to compressed natural 
gas engines from Cummins 
Westport. The large inflatable 
globe in the background 
represents one ton of carbon dioxide (CO
2). The move will 
save 1,500 tons per year.ENVIRONmENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  65The Action Committee for Environmental 
(ACES) Sustainability involves all 
businesses, all functions and all locations 
at Cummins. The committee evaluated the Company’s impact on the environment 
and is defining a global strategy to reduce 
Cummins’ environmental footprint. 
“Environmental work is embraced by many 
functions at Cummins, but there is much more that can and should be done,” said 
Brian C. Mormino, Executive Director – 
Environmental Strategy and Compliance. 
Cummins has the ability and global reach to 
make a significant impact on improving the 
environment. The Company sells more than 1 million engines a year around the world 
and has almost 6 million in operation today. 
Cummins’ employees, meanwhile, have  
a passion for the environment and want  
to make a difference at work, at home  
and in their communities.
Beyond the societal benefits, there is a 
clear business case for environmental 
sustainability at Cummins. By helping 
customers save on fuel, for example, the Company helps customers save money. 
By reducing Cummins’ own use of energy 
and its production of waste, the Company reduces its expenses.“Our sustainability as a business is  tied to environmental sustainability,” 
Mormino said. “In a very real sense,  
our business is the environment.”
The ACES team is divided into six 
Environmental Stakeholder Areas to 
ensure that all aspects of the environment 
and relevant areas of the business are 
included and coordinated. The first three areas address the Company’s greatest 
opportunities across product lifecycle,  
while the others play a key role in establishing an environmental  
stewardship mindset.
The environmental stakeholder areas are:
 »Supply Chain 
 »Customers / In-Use Products 
 »Design for Environment 
 »Business and Technology Strategy 
 »Employee and Community Engagement 
 »External Communications and Marketing 
Each area will establish its own goals  
and a high-level roadmap that will 
collectively be Cummins’ Global Environmental Sustainability Plan.  
Cummins will publish those goals  
in next year’s Sustainability Report.Charting a plan for  
environmental sustainability
Work is underway to integrate the Company’s many 
independent environmental initiatives into a coherent  
global plan for environmental sustainability.
                                                                            
Environmental
SustainabilityPrinciplesDevelop
environmentally
sustainable
supply chains
Grow and 
develop new 
businessesDevelop clean, 
efﬁcient products
Harness theenergy of 
employeesMake work spaces
green spaces
Advocate for
incentives to 
accelerate progressSupport a balanced
global approachHelp developresponsible
regulations
Engage inthe communityPromotetechnologyCompany actions for products, businesses, employees and communities  
Public policy effortsENVIRONMENTAL STAKEHOLDER AREASSUPPLY CHAIN
EXTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS& MARKETINGCUSTOMERS /
PRODUCTS IN-USE
EMPLOYEE &
COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENTDESIGN FOR
ENVIRONMENT
BUSINESS AND TECHNOLOGY
STRATEGY
Foundational to the Action 
Committee for Environmental 
Sustainability’s work is 
Cummins’ 10 Environmental 
Sustainability Principles.  
The principles cover everything 
from advocacy to community 
engagement and technology. To see all the principles,  
go to page 59.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
66  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
More than 27,000 Cummins employees 
worked on community service projects  in 2012, a 68 percent increase over  
the 16,472 employees who participated  
in 2011.
Employees worked more than 221,000 hours 
on community involvement activities in 
2012, an increase of about 90,000 hours 
over the 130,000 hours logged building stronger communities in 2011. That’s about a 70 percent increase over the year before. “Cummins has long been committed  to strengthening our communities,” said Gwen Langley, Director – Global Community 
Engagement. “It’s extremely gratifying to  
see our employees living this core value in such a meaningful way around the world.” 
For more than 50 years, Cummins has 
believed building stronger communities 
helps build stronger markets for the Company’s products, dating back to Cummins’ visionary CEO J. Irwin Miller,  
who helped Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., 
organize the 1963 March on Washington. 
But seldom has there been a year like  
2012, not just in terms of the hours  invested by Cummins employees,  
but also in the breadth and depth of  
the community projects they worked  on. Here are just a few:
 »In India, employees celebrated  Cummins’ 50th anniversary in the  
country by launching an environmental 
education campaign designed to reach 75,000 school children. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Building stronger communities  
in record numbers
Cummins employees invested a record number of hours  
in building stronger communities around the world in 2012, 
living the Company’s Corporate Responsibility Value to  
“serve and improve the communities in which we live.”
To celebrate the Company’s 
50th anniversary in India, 
Cummins India employees 
launched an environmental 
education effort to reach 
75,000 children.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  67 »Employees in China achieved a major 
milestone with their multi-year campaign to donate books to rural Chinese libraries, 
reaching 80,000 books distributed to 
more than 90 libraries around the country. 
 »In Southern Indiana, around 600 employees participated in a week-long Habitat  
for Humanity “building blitz” to build  
10 homes for families displaced by massive tornadoes earlier in the year.
“I’ve been a Cummins employee for over  30 years; I’ve always been proud of that 
fact, but never more than I am standing 
here today,” said Jeff Caldwell, the Company’s General Manager – Global Pickup / Van Business, speaking at  
a ceremony marking the end of the  
Habitat build in Henryville, Ind.
EmPLOYEE ENGAGEmENT
The Company carries out most of its 
community involvement work through a 
global network of more than 200 employee-
led Community Involvement Teams (CITs). Under Cummins’ Every Employee Every Community (EEEC) program, the Company 
pays for employees to work on community projects for at least four hours per year. 
Employees can work more on Company time with the permission of their supervisor.
Cummins strongly believes that a  
vigorous employee engagement program  in addition to building stronger business markets, also helps attract and retain  
the kind of workers Cummins needs  
to be successful. 
The Company encourages employees  
to focus their efforts on three global  priority areas where Cummins believes  
they can especially add knowledge,  
skills and passion:
 »Education
 »Environment
 »Social justice / equality of opportunity
For each of the past four years, the Company has sponsored Cummins’ Environmental Challenge where  CITs compete as they address 
environmental concerns in their 
communities. They submit projects for formal judging to be recognized as one  of the Company’s 15 best of the year.
More than 600 Cummins 
employees participated in a 
Habitat for Humanity “building 
blitz” in Henryville, Ind., in 2012 
to build 10 homes in a week  
for families displaced by 
tornadoes earlier in the year. 
 »Employees set EEEC 
participation record  (page 66).
 »New global vocational education initiative  begins (page 70).
 »Challenge tops GHG 
record (page 71).Corporate Responsibility
POINTS Of 
INNOVATION  CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
68  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The Challenge was once again a huge 
success in 2012, drawing more than  100 entries from Cummins employees in 
19 countries (page 71). The 15 winners 
each received a $10,000 grant from The Cummins Foundation for the charitable community partner of their choice.
UNITED WAY
Despite the sluggish economy, 2012 
was also a record year for Cummins’ participation in the United Way.
Cummins employees pledged a record 
$2.66 million in 2012, a 6 percent increase 
over 2011 when the previous record was set with employees giving $2.51 million. 
The Cummins Foundation matches  
pledges dollar for dollar, so social  
service organizations in the communities where Cummins employees live and work  received a total of $5.32 million in 2012. More than 9,000 employees participated.
The United Way allows contributors to 
designate their funds to specific qualifying programs, so in many cases employees were able to direct their donations to 
activities they worked on through the 
Company’s EEEC program.
While the United Way program mostly 
involves the United States, Cummins  has started matching gift programs  
outside the country.
In 2011 and 2012, Cummins launched 
matching gift programs in India, China  and parts of the Asia Pacific region and 
plans are in place to add others in the  
next 12 to 18 months. Jean Blackwell, who started at Cummins in 1997 and  served in several roles including Chief Financial Officer,  announced her retirement in 2013 as the Company’s  
Executive Vice President of Corporate Responsibility  
and Chief Executive Officer of The Cummins Foundation.
Blackwell led Cummins’ Corporate Responsibility efforts  
since 2008 and the size and scope of the program grew 
significantly during those years, especially globally.  
The Company’s community involvement efforts also  became more closely aligned to the business under  Blackwell’s leadership, and she strengthened the  department’s ties with all of Cummins’ business units. 
She was replaced by Mark Levett, who since 1999 served 
as Cummins’ General Manager and Vice President – High Horsepower. Levett’s new title is Vice President – Corporate Responsibility and Community Relations and CEO of  
The Cummins Foundation. He joined the Company in 1973.
Jean Blackwell, then Cummins’ Executive Vice President of Corporate Responsibility 
and Chief Executive Officer of The Cummins Foundation, talks to Principal Zheng 
Hong at the Dandelion School outside Beijing, China. The school focuses on  
migrant children. During a 2010 visit, Blackwell toured the former factory that  
is the school’s home. Blackwell retired from Cummins in 2013.TRANSITIONS
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  69Through voluntary payroll deductions, 
Cummins employees in these regions  are able to support local non-profits  
whose causes are meaningful to them.
SIGNIfICANT PARTNERSHIPS /
PHILANTHROPY
Cummins continued to financially support 
several significant partnerships in 2012-
2013, addressing a range of concerns.
The Minneapolis-based Courage Center,  
for example, helps those with brain and spinal cord injuries and developmental 
disabilities. Cummins Power Generation 
employees in Fridley, Minn., have long volunteered their time to adapt toys and household devices for the center’s clients.
Cummins Power Generation is working to 
expand the assistive technology program globally, establishing partnerships with agencies like the Courage Center in the United Kingdom and China.The Company also continues financial support for the Cummins College of Engineering for Women in Pune and 
Nagpur, India (page 80). As its name  
would imply, the college serves women  who have long been under-represented  in the field of engineering.
Cummins supports these initiatives and 
others through its businesses as well  as The Cummins Foundation and related foundations such as the Cummins India Foundation (page 88).
In 2012, Cummins invested more than 
$30.7 million in its corporate responsibility efforts, including $14.1 million to The Cummins Foundation, one of the oldest 
corporate foundations in the United States.
Dollars, however, have never been a central 
part of Cummins’ corporate responsibility focus. Financial donations are used to support initiatives where Cummins’ 
employees are already actively involved.
Cummins employees  
in South Africa conduct  
a cleanup project.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
70  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The OFPPT’s (Office de la Formation 
Professionnelle et de la Promotion du 
Travail) Center for Transport is one of the 
first school partners in TEC: Technical Education for Communities. 
TEC is a Cummins initiative to increase 
access to good jobs through vocational education, teaching industry-relevant  
skills such as bus and truck maintenance,  
which are in high demand in North Africa.“One of the goals of TEC is to test different approaches to technical education so 
we can share what we learn,” said Mary 
Chandler, Cummins’ Director of Global Strategic Programs.
The TEC program started in 2012  
when Cummins recognized that a lack of employable skills is a key barrier to success 
for many people and the communities in 
which they live. In addition to the Center for 
Transport in Morocco, there are now TEC 
programs operating in China and India.
All TEC programs include effective  
teachers and trainers, career guidance  
and a curriculum that meets labor  
market needs, combining workplace learning with classroom learning. Forging 
partnerships with business, government 
and community organizations is also  critical to TEC’s success.
In 2013, TEC will continue in Morocco, 
China and India as well as other new  global locations, testing a variety of 
approaches and identifying best practices 
prior to recommending a global approach  to community technical education.UPDATE: 
TEC program addresses skills 
deficit around the world
People have traveled to the Moroccan city of Casablanca 
for centuries looking to make a new start. For 112 students, 
that journey could begin in September 2013 at a vocational education program sponsored in part by Cummins.
Cummins is partnering  
with the OFPPT (Office de  
la Formation Professionnelle  
et de la Promotion du Travail) 
to open a vocational  
education program in 
Casablanca, Morocco,  
in 2013. The organization sponsors vocational  
education in the country.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  71Under the Challenge, the Company’s more 
than 200 Community Involvement Teams 
(CITs) compete to develop one of the  
15 best environmental projects of the year. More than 100 entries were submitted 
from 19 countries in the 2012 competition. 
Participation increased 20 percent over 2011 to 12,000 employees. The 2012 
Challenge reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions by an estimated 4,300 tons –  a new record.
Each of the 15 winning CITs received 
a $10,000 grant from The Cummins Foundation to be awarded to the charitable 
partner of their choice. Three projects 
received special recognition in the  
2012 Challenge. Here are their stories: 
TAmING PUNE’S TRAffIC 
Pune, India
Cummins India employees in Pune are well 
aware of the congestion along Karve Road. 
The road is one of the main approaches to the Company’s facilities in the city and can be jammed with cars, buses, trucks, motorcycles, motorized rickshaws and 
bicycles, too.
Employees, however, didn’t just complain 
about the 148,000 vehicles that pass along 
the road each day. They put their data 
analysis and problem-solving skills to  work to make the situation better.
“Traffic congestion is a huge problem  
in Pune,” said Navdeep Singh, who led a  team of more than 200 employees working 
to improve the flow of traffic. “Apart from  
the mental stress, traffic congestion creates a lot of air pollution. And this stretch of 
Karve Road was also recommended by 
Pune Traffic Police because of its heavy  volume of traffic.”
The project focused on five traffic signals 
along a 1.3 kilometer stretch of Karve Road. Employees from six Cummins entities 
participated in the initiative: The Automotive 
Business Unit, the Cummins Research and Technology Institute, Cummins Turbo 
Technologies, Cummins Industrial Engine 
Business Unit, Cummins Emission Solutions and the Distribution Business Unit. 
Employees worked in partnership with 
Janwani, a non-governmental organization Environmental Challenge  
is a global success
Cummins’ 4th Environmental Challenge produced another 
year of impressive results in 2012, as employees put their 
skills to work reducing traffic, planting trees, increasing 
recycling and much more.
BEST TECHNICAL AWARD  
WINNERBEST ENVIRONmENTAL ImPACTAWARD  
WINNERCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
72  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
devoted to community improvement and 
sustainable growth in Pune, as well as  
the Pune Traffic Police and the Pune 
Municipal Corporation.
Pune is one of the fastest growing cities in 
India with a population of about 5 million in 
the metropolitan area. Many multi-national corporations have established operations  in the area to tap into Pune’s highly 
educated workforce. However, some  
key thoroughfares are centuries old and were never designed for the volume of 
traffic that exists today.
The team concluded that there are four 
main causes to traffic congestion along 
Karve Road:
 »Bunching of vehicles traveling  
at different speeds
 »A lack of driver discipline
 »Too many vehicles 
 »The lack of coordinated traffic signals
The team determined that in the short term, 
the only area it could affect was traffic signal 
management. Team members believed if the signals were coordinated, there was 
an opportunity to reduce congestion, GHG 
emissions and fuel could be saved, too.
They designed a methodology to evaluate 
the stretch of Karve Road and began collecting data via videos taken in the 
morning, mid-day and during the evening 
on selected days of the week. One hundred 
and forty employees took 68 videos in three weeks, investing more than 600 Every 
Employee Every Community (EEEC) hours 
on the initiative.
Seventy engineers then analyzed the 
videos and derived more than 3,000 timing 
readings that were evaluated to determine 
the best settings for the traffic signals. The signals were adjusted according to 
the analysis for conditions in the morning, 
evening and weekends.
Traffic now flows more smoothly through the 
targeted stretch of Karve Road. The team 
estimates more than 200,000 kilograms of GHG emissions will be avoided annually and 
nearly $150,000 in fuel will be saved each 
year based on today’s fuel prices. 
The team also believes there will be fewer 
accidents and less stress among those who 
travel Karve Road. Pune Traffic Police agree 
and are now in the process of using the 
same tool to address traffic congestion  in other parts of the city.
That’s a pretty good return on the team’s 
capital investment of around $300. Leaders of the project believe the work they did can 
be easily replicated not just in Pune but 
around India.Cummins India’s Navdeep 
Singh, center, captures  
video of traffic on Karve  
Road. He led a team of  
more than 200 Cummins 
employees working to  
improve the flow of traffic.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  73
“The techniques we developed require  
very little capital,” said Singh, who works  
in Cummins’ Automotive Business Unit, 
“and the technique can be replicated in  any part of the country.”
RATS, OWLS AND RECYCLING 
Johannesburg, South Africa
Cummins South Africa employees decided 
it was not enough merely to increase 
recycling in Alexandra Township, an informal 
settlement near Johannesburg, South Africa,  
not far from the Company’s offices in Kelvin. 
To really address Alexandra’s problems, 
they had to look for ways to reduce the area’s population of rats – some the size  
of small cats.
And the best way to control the rat 
population, they concluded, was to 
encourage the growth of the owl population, 
a natural predator but long considered  a symbol of bad luck in South Africa. 
That’s how what started as a fairly straight-
forward Environmental Challenge project to promote recycling became an effort to change people’s beliefs and behaviors,  not just about trash, but about owls, too. 
“Now the owl has come to the rescue of 
Alexandra residents, surpassing traditional methods of solving the rat infestation,”  
said Kholofelo Nthane, Project Co-Leader 
and Environmental Community Involvement Team (CIT) Leader for Cummins South Africa.
Alexandra’s rat problem has been attributed 
to the illegal dumping of solid waste in the community. Alexandra is home to 
approximately 500,000 people, but its 
infrastructure was never designed for a population of that size. The rat population 
exploded, presenting both a physical  
threat to residents and spreading disease. 
Believing that education is the key to 
change, employees decided to partner  
with the Ithute Primary School in Alexandra. From the outset, they wanted to address 
the community’s trash and rodent problems 
in a sustainable way, without putting students or teachers at risk.
Their research led them to look at whether 
increasing the population of barn owls might be one 
answer. Barn owls are used 
as a biological control in  a number of countries  
Cummins South Africa 
employees helped start 
eco kids clubs to help 
raise awareness about 
environmental issues and 
installed a nesting house 
for owls on a school.
NEW ENTRY AWARD  
WINNERCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
74  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013including Malaysia, Israel, the United States 
and other parts of South Africa. 
Adult owls can eat four to six rats per day. 
Eight adults in one family can consume just over 1,000 rats per month. And they 
can reduce that population without using 
poisons that might harm people.
Cummins partnered with the Owl 
Foundation to build a nesting box for  
owls on top of the school. Then, they set about addressing the cultural issues 
involved in the program.
“Many regard owls as evil, so we had to 
introduce the children to the harmless 
nature of owls and their purpose to  
reduce rodents,” said Ally Dhlamini,  Project Co-Leader.
The Owl Foundation and Cummins South 
Africa employees gave Ithute students an eco-centric view of owls and their niche  
in the food chain while being careful not  
to dismiss anyone’s cultural beliefs. 
As part of this education effort, an art 
competition was held where students drew 
or painted pictures of owls. Members of the Kelvin CIT were assigned to different 
classes to help, and the winning class  
was recognized with a trophy.
To improve waste management, employees 
implemented a recycling program at Ithute. 
Cummins employees assisted with the delivery and set up of recycling bins in 
various colors to separate glass and tin, 
plastic, paper and cardboard and  organic material. 
Employees also worked with the school’s 
environmental teachers and the Abilities Projects Management Corporation,  a professional environmental  
management company that the CIT  
had worked with before, to establish eco kids clubs at the school.
The clubs are intended to create,  
educate and support green initiatives in the community. Eco clubs run by students 
were established for every grade. They will 
put together an environmental plan for the community that will be submitted to the  
CIT for possible collaborations.
Though there is much work ahead  
to eradicate the trash and rat problems,  
both employees and Alexandra residents 
say after years of struggle, there’s finally cause for optimism. 
CREATING AN URBAN OASIS 
Guarulhos, Brazil
The Cummins campus in Guarulhos, Brazil, 
is near several major highways and São 
Paulo’s international airport. Traffic in the 
area is frequently bumper-to-bumper.  Green space is limited.
But over the past three years, nearly  
800 Cummins employees have planted some 5,000 trees in the area. Not only  
has their work helped beautify the city,  
the air is cleaner, dust has been reduced and temperatures are down in some areas.
“When we communicated that we were 
planning an activity to plant trees, the engagement of our employees was just 
amazing because we understand that this BEST CONTINUATIONAWARD  
WINNER80,000
200,000
4,300
9,147
1980,000
Employee hours in the 2012 
Environmental Challenge
200,000
Total employee hours since the first Environmental Challenge was held in 2009
4,300
Estimated tons of greenhouse gas emissions reduced in the 
2012 Environmental Challenge
9,147
Estimated tons of greenhouse 
gas emissions reduced since the Environmental Challenge 
was first held in 2009
19
Participating countries in 2012ENVIRONmENTAL 
CHALLENGE  BY THE NUmBERS
Cummins’ Environmental Challenge was first held  in 2009 to celebrate the 
Company’s 90th anniversary.  
Here’s a look at a few key numbers from the competition.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  75generates not just environmental and social 
benefits, but contributes to improving the quality of life for our community,” said Ligia 
Almeida, Community Involvement Team 
Leader for the Guarulhos campus and a project team member.
The tree-planting effort started in 2010 
when employees at the Cummins campus formed a partnership with local municipal 
officials and the Environmental Department 
of Guarulhos. Through this partnership, employees planted 2,100 trees near the 
Cummins campus. 
The following year, the partnership 
grew when an environmental education 
component was added, reaching more  
than 400 local school children. Some  400 employees also planted 2,000 more 
trees throughout the city. 
Then, in 2012, the project, led by Cummins 
employees Alexandre Balista and Priscila 
Papazissis, added yet another dimension. 
Nine hundred and fifty more trees were 
planted, and the employees, together 
with the Environmental Department of Guarulhos, determined key areas of the  
city in which to plant in order to produce  
the greatest environmental impact.
“Planting trees provides other benefits,  
such as air purification, noise reduction, softening the force of winds that provide 
habitats for birds, protecting groundwater, increasing air humidity, providing shade  
and serving as a dust barrier,” Almeida said.
Guarulhos has two major parks, Parque 
Estadual da Cantareira and the Parque 
Ecológico Tietê, located on opposite  
edges of the city. As the areas around  the parks became more urbanized,  
the park ecosystems became isolated  
and vulnerable.
The Cummins project sought to ease  
the migration of wildlife and rejoin the  
flora by creating an ecological corridor,  or “eco-aisle,” between the two parks.  
More than 300 employees helped form  
this eco-aisle, which officials believe is already starting to have a positive impact.
Temperatures were taken in the areas with 
new trees and compared with historical data on those sites. The research showed,  
on average, temperatures were about  
8 degrees cooler in the shaded areas.
Employees say they feel like they are 
making a difference.
“We feel proud about the transformation 
that we, as Cummins employees, are 
making in our community,” Almeida said.
Cummins employees  
in Brazil have planted  
5,000 trees to help  improve the environment  
in Guarulhos, Brazil.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
76  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
2012 Environmental Challenge winning projects
“CATCH THEm YOUNG” ENVIRONmENTAL EDUCATION CAmPAIGN  Pune, India
To commemorate Cummins’ 50 years in India, this environmental education campaign raised  
awareness among 75,000 students on the importance of preserving the environment.
EmISSIONS REDUCTION THROUGH TRAffIC SIGNAL mANAGEmENT  Pune, India
Cummins employees designed and implemented a traffic signal management system to reduce 
vehicular emissions and traffic congestion.
BALANCED ECOSYSTEm AT THE POONA SCHOOL AND HOmE fOR BLIND GIRLS  Pune, India
Cummins employees created a safer environment for students at The Poona School and Home  
for Blind Girls through improvements in energy and water conservation.
ECOSYSTEm AT BARREN HILLS  Pune, India
Cummins employees offset carbon by developing and sustaining an ecosystem to promote  
biodiversity, water and soil conservation and forest fire prevention.
INNOVATIVE APPROACH fOR POPULAR AGRICULTURAL SEGmENT  Phaltan, India
Employees reduced the adverse environmental impact of sugar cane cultivation by educating  
farmers on sustainable practices.
mANJARSUmBHA VILLAGE W ATER mANAGEmENT PROJECT  Ahmednagar, India
Cummins employees established a permanent solution to ensure the sustained availability  
of water for drinking and irrigation in an Indian village.
DANDELION ECO SCHOOL  Beijing, China
Employees reduced Dandelion School’s energy consumption to reduce operational expenses  
and improve student living conditions.Cummins employees  
remove underbrush and  
create gardens to make a  
safer environment for students 
at The Poona School and 
Home for Blind Girls (left, 
center). The project also 
included improvements in energy and water conservation.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  77
2012 Environmental Challenge winning projectsEmployees at Cummins 
Filtration (above) in San Luis 
Potosí, Mexico, worked to 
strengthen and develop  
eco clubs to sponsor 
environmental activities in  
the area. The effort started  
with a goal of establishing  five school-based clubs,  
but the idea was so popular  
that 14 were created and 
another was started at the 
University de San Pablo. ORGANIC CULTURE, SERVING COmmUNITY  Chengdu, China
Cummins employees taught village residents organic agriculture, established a garbage  
sorting system and developed environmental education activities for village children.
ENVIRONmENTAL STORY BOOkS AND LITERACY PROGRAm  Johannesburg, South Africa
Employees developed books in English and Zulu to educate students on water conservation,  
air pollution and environmental protection.
ITHUTE RECYCLING PROJECT AND OWL BOxES  Johannesburg, South Africa
Employees established student eco clubs, implemented a recycling program and erected  
an owl box to combat a rat infestation.
SAmBURU W ATER P AN PROJECT  Nairobi, Kenya
This project harvested rainwater through water pans in the arid Samburu area, benefiting 12,000 people.WATERWAY RESTORATION PROJECT  Nashville, Tenn.
This project restored a local waterway after flooding caused several hundred choke points in the river.ECO CLUBS  San Luis Potosí, MexicoEmployees created eco clubs in the area and introduced sustainable activities to raise awareness  
about the importance of environmental stewardship.
REfORESTATION AT CERRO SAN JUAN DE GUADALUPE  San Luis Potosí, MexicoAfter wildfires in 2011, employees planted trees to restore the ecosystem and promote water 
conservation and CO
2 absorption.
GREEN ISLAND AND ECO-AISLE PROJECT  Guarulhos, Brazil
Employees created an “ecological aisle” to connect two major urban parks.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
78  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013But with crumbling plumbing and heating 
systems, and outdated electrical wiring,  
this beacon of hope has been a real 
challenge to keep going. 
Then, employees at Cummins Emission 
Solutions (CES) in Beijing became involved. 
Using a new Corporate Responsibility incubator grants program, they tackled  
some of the school’s structural problems 
and today the future is much brighter.
“Dandelion is helping needy children  
change their lives, but they face so many 
challenges,” said CES project leader   Hans Han. “Cummins has a responsibility  to help, in whatever way we can.”
Families from impoverished regions in rural 
China are often forced to leave all that is familiar in search of work in the nearest city. 
In many cases, they are small farmers made 
obsolete by modern farming practices. Often, their children’s schooling suffers 
because of higher education costs in the city.
The Dandelion School was established in 
2005, charging only a nominal fee for tuition 
and boarding to help as many families as 
possible. Its operating budget has barely covered yearly expenses.Hope blossoms at  
the Dandelion School
Housed in an abandoned factory in the suburbs of Beijing, 
the Dandelion School is the only middle school in the city 
created specifically for children from low-income migrant 
families moving to Beijing to find work.
Cummins employees used the 
incubator grants program to 
help improve the infrastructure 
at the former factory that is 
home to the Dandelion School.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  79The CES Community Involvement Team 
(CIT) partnered with the school to apply for 
a grant from The Cummins Foundation’s 
newly created Incubator Grants Program. Launched in 2012, the program supports 
employee-led community environmental 
projects in two categories: energy  efficiency and water conservation, 
protection and access. 
Incubator grants provide start-up funds to 
help nurture innovative and high-potential 
Corporate Responsibility projects. Emphasis 
is placed on projects that can be scaled  or replicated and that apply technology  
to solve environmental problems.  
The CES project with Dandelion was  the first recipient of an incubator grant.
Members of Cummins’ Health, Safety  
and Environment team visited the school and put together a water and energy  
report. Together with the CIT, they studied 
water and electricity use to find areas  for improvement and created a plan to 
reduce waste. One hundred and eighty employees spent 
a total of 720 hours working to improve 
conditions. With the grant support, the team 
developed a system, installed underneath downspouts at the school, to collect, filter 
and re-use rainwater. Waste water can also 
be collected and treated by the equipment, with the purified water being used on 
gardens at the school.
The team also improved the insulation  
and lighting at the school, resulting in a  
20 percent decline in energy consumption 
in addition to 20 percent more efficient use of water. The project’s success led 
to it being named one of 15 winners in 
Cummins’ 2012 Environmental Challenge.
“At Dandelion, we believe that education 
nurtures a child’s character, which ultimately 
makes the world a better place,” said school Principal Zheng Hong. “Thanks to 
the improvements in our school’s energy 
consumption and educational training for our students, Cummins will help us see 
benefits for years to come.”
Students line up at the 
Dandelion School, the only 
middle school in Beijing, 
China, created specifically 
for children from low-income 
migrant families.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
80  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013One success story in the Company’s 
headquarters community has become  a model for three other Cummins cities 
across the country.
The Community Education Coalition (CEC) 
in Columbus, Ind., is a nationally recognized partnership of education, business and 
community leaders focused on aligning  
and integrating the region’s community learning systems with economic growth  and a high quality of life. The CEC is a nonprofit organization founded in 1997,  
in part with Cummins’ help. 
The Company and its leaders have a long 
history of collaborating with the CEC, both from a funding and an advisory capacity. Vice President Pamela Carter, President of the Distribution Business Unit, currently 
serves on the coalition’s Board of Directors. 
Mark Gerstle, the recently retired Vice President of Community Relations, also serves on the board and played an integral 
role in furthering the goals of the CEC 
during his 25-year career at Cummins.
“Cummins is pleased to be a partner in this 
important work as we strive to bolster our educational systems in the region,” said 
Mark Levett, Vice President of Corporate 
Responsibility and Community Relations and current Board member of the CEC. 
“I’m particularly proud of the active roles 
Cummins leaders are taking in this initiative, 
since their engagement is critical to our corporate responsibility efforts.”
The coalition has tackled a wide variety of education initiatives, from improving 
pre-school education to upgrading higher 
education opportunities in the Columbus area in Southern Indiana.
One such undertaking is the iGrad program, 
a collaborative approach in the community 
to improving high school graduation rates  in Bartholomew County. The program pairs  
students at risk of dropping out with Coalition for progress
Cummins strongly believes that leadership engagement is 
a crucial factor in the success of community improvement 
projects, particularly those that aim to have a high impact 
with sustainable goals. 
Cummins employee Jim Burke 
tutors a student at East High 
School in Columbus, Ind. as 
part of the iGrad program 
sponsored by the Community 
Education Coalition to improve 
high school graduation rates.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  81concerned adults. iGrad’s goal is reaching  
a 100 percent graduation rate by 2017.
Many Cummins employees are participating 
in the program including Jim Burke, Power 
Cylinder Team Leader at the Company.  He has served as a mentor and tutor in  the program since the beginning of 2013.
“I did a lot of coaching and school activities 
as my four children were growing up,” Burke said. “I enjoyed that interaction,  so this program struck a chord with me.” 
Once a week, he meets with his student at 
East High School and together they review 
her homework problems and quizzes and discuss any questions she has. “I’m happy that Cummins has given me the opportunity 
to do something I like that also helps the 
community,” he said.
Initially, the CEC focused on the 
development of two-year, four-year and master’s degree programs that better 
aligned with the needs of the business 
community in fields such as business, nursing, computer technology, mechanical engineering and education. Over time,  
the coalition has focused on bringing 
together educators and industry leaders to develop a shared vision and define community and regional needs.
The CEC also worked to build the 
Advanced Manufacturing Center of 
Excellence (AMCE) in Columbus. It is  part of a network of integrated technology labs and associated programs to update and improve manufacturing education. 
Cummins helped fund the construction  
of the building and has also worked to support the establishment of a bachelor’s 
degree in mechanical engineering that 
is offered at the AMCE through Indiana University Purdue University Columbus.
“Our community and region is very fortunate 
to have Cummins as a partner working to 
develop a regional system of learning,” said John Burnett, Chief Executive Officer of the Community Education Coalition. “Members of the Cummins leadership team have been 
actively engaged and worked tirelessly to 
develop the Community Education Coalition in partnership with other key businesses, educators and community leaders.”
The CEC’s success has led to the start of 
similar programs in Rocky Mount, N.C., 
Jamestown, N.Y., and Seymour, Ind. 
Cummins’ involvement in these efforts is spearheaded by local leaders committed to making a difference in the communities 
where they live and work. Karen Pence, the wife of Indiana Gov. Mike Pence,  
tours the Busy Bees Academy in April 2013,  
another project supported by the Community  
Education Coalition in Columbus, Ind. The Community Education 
Coalition supports a number of pre-K through 12th grade 
initiatives, as well as several  
post-secondary programs.  Here are just a few:
PRE-k THROUGH  
12TH GRADE:
 »Busy Bees Academy – Takes a 
unique approach to education by preparing children of all backgrounds who are socially, 
emotionally and cognitively 
ready for kindergarten.
 »Dream It. Do It. – Advanced manufacturing, science and 
technology career outreach.
POST -SECONDARY :
 »Columbus Learning Center – 
130,000 square foot facility shared by Indiana University-
Purdue University Columbus 
and three other educational institutions. The center serves more than 7,000 students.
 »Health Education Network –  Partnership of two career technical education centers, seven hospitals and five  post-secondary institutions  
to expand degree programs  
to address a shortage of certified nurses.CEC AT A GLANCE
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
82  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Team Blitz is made up of students at 
the college in Pune that has long been 
supported by Cummins to help increase the 
number of women in engineering. The team designed and built an off-road vehicle and 
in 2013 became the first CCEW team to 
compete in the Baja Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) India competition.
“During my first year at CCEW, I came 
across an episode of the television program ‘Overdrive’ about the Baja event held in 
Pithampur,” said Team Captain Mrunal 
Sawant. “I had no prior knowledge about it, so I began researching and learned that the first requirement to participate was to  create an SAE chapter at the college.”
Sawant worked with a classmate to 
create the SAE chapter and the off-road team soon followed. Team Blitz, which 
now consists of 25 women, spent a year 
studying and preparing for the event and then entered the 2013 competition.
Over about three months, they painstakingly 
built a car to withstand harsh conditions and meet the contest requirements that 
vehicles be safe, easily transported,  
easily maintained and have a speed  limit of 60 kilometers per hour. UPDATE: 
Students take a path less traveled
Some students at the Cummins College of Engineering for 
Women (CCEW) in India have found a new way to test their 
skills: off-road endurance racing.
Team Blitz finishes an 
impressive 13th in the  
Baja Society of Automotive 
Engineers India competition.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  83The Baja competition provides budding 
mechanical engineers the opportunity to 
showcase their potential as automobile 
designers. Just getting to the starting  line is a major accomplishment. Of the  
260 teams that applied to join the event, 
only 91 survived rigorous inspections and tests that lasted three days. 
The vehicles that actually start the race are 
evaluated for acceleration, speed, climbing inclined roads and maneuverability in 
addition to endurance over rough terrain.
Forty of those 91 teams ran for the entire 
three-hour duration of the Baja’s Endurance 
Test. Team Blitz finished an impressive  
13th and took second place in the Best Quality competition.
Cummins has been a co-sponsor of the 
Baja competition for the past five years and Company officials say Team Blitz’s performance was truly impressive.  The Baja competition has been getting 
stronger every year.
“It is remarkable to see the participating 
teams improve over the years and we are 
excited to take this event to an international 
level soon,” said Lalitkumar Suryavanshi, of Cummins Turbo Technologies and Joint 
Convener for SAE Baja 2013. 
Paul Sowerby, Chief Technical Officer for 
the Cummins Area Business Organization 
in India, was one of the Guests of Honor 
at the competition. He applauded all the participating teams.
“This is the perfect platform for  
students to apply the knowledge they  have gained through academics in real 
practical use,” he said. “I am pleased  
to see their performance.”
Here’s a quick look at  
the Cummins College of  Engineering for Women:
HISTORY 
Maharshi Karve Stree Shikshan Samstha (MKSSS) has been a renowned educational institution 
in India for more than 100 years, 
dedicated to the “empowerment of women through education.” It started an engineering college exclusively for women in 1991. 
The Cummins India Foundation  
gave a donation to help start the college, hence the name Cummins College of  
Engineering for Women.
LOCATION 
CCEW has campuses  in Pune and Nagpur, India.
ACADEmICS  
The college offers five undergraduate degree  level programs and two post  
graduate programs in engineering.  
The CCEW also partners with 
Purdue University on a fellowship in advanced engineering studies. 
mISSION 
“To develop women professionals 
who are academically and technically sound with strong  work ethics and above all  
good human beings.”The CCEW team celebrates its strong showing.CCEW AT A GLANCECORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
84  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013“In reality they are used in towns and cities 
throughout the world,” said Marion, who is 
based in Columbus, Ind., and is a member 
of team Nuv Vida Four, one of 27 employee teams that submitted designs in the 
competition. “So the idea of being part  
of a project that can improve the lives  of millions of people was very enticing.”
Marion and the rest of Nuv Vida Four will  
get to see their stove design built and tested after their team was named one  
of five competition finalists in April 2013  
by CES Vice President and General Manager Srikanth Padmanabhan.
Prototypes will be built using each of the 
finalists’ designs and then tested by the Beijing (China) University of Chemical 
Technology stove testing center.  
One design will be selected to go into production, in partnership with India- 
based Prakti Design, one of the leading 
stove makers in the world.
Indoor air pollution generated mostly  
by inefficient and poorly ventilated cook 
stoves is responsible for the deaths of  about 1.6 million people around  the globe annually, according to the  
World Health Organization (WHO). 
More than half of these deaths occur 
among children five or younger, the health 
organization says. In developing countries 
with high mortality rates, indoor air pollution ranks fourth among the risk factors that 
contribute to death and disease.CES puts skills to work  
designing a better cook stove
Cassie Marion, a Customer Support Excellence Coordinator 
for Cummins Emission Solutions (CES), had always thought 
cook stoves that burn wood or other fuels were only used in 
daily food preparation in extremely remote locations around 
the world. Then, she became part of a CES competition to 
build a cleaner stove.
Cummins Emission Solutions 
Cost Analyst David Emmons,  
a member of team Boiling 
Point, studies one of  
Prakti’s stoves.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  85About 170 employees from around the 
world participated in the Cummins Emission 
Solutions competition. A team of judges 
from the Company and Prakti first whittled the 27 designs down to 10, choosing 
proposals from Cummins teams in Brazil, 
China, Germany, India, the Netherlands,  the United Kingdom and the United States.
Three of the five final teams are from 
India. The other two come from CES in Marktheidenfeld, Germany, and team Nuv 
Vida Four from Columbus. The competition 
is expected to wrap up in mid to late 2013. 
Bringing together employees with different 
backgrounds from across the globe in a 
business-wide corporate responsibility project was precisely what CES leaders 
intended when they launched the cook 
stove design competition in the summer  of 2012.
The cook stove issue resonated with  
CES’ 1,400 employees who were surveyed on what would interest them. 
Project S.T.E.A.M. – Standards, Testing 
(and design), Education, Application and Monitoring – was soon off and running.
“All of us are aware of the serious health 
hazards caused by the traditional cook stoves,” said Engineer Isha Vyawahare,  a member of team Ignite, another finalist 
in the competition. Vyawahare works in 
High Horsepower Engineering at Cummins Research and Technology India in Pune. 
“We entered this competition as it had a 
very noble cause, to make this world a better place to live in.” 
CES leaders believe designing cleaner 
burning cook stoves closely aligns with  the skills of their employees. 
“Being a division that produces products 
that reduce harmful engine emissions around the globe, we felt that it was 
appropriate that we should focus on  
the environment,” Padmanabhan said  in launching the competition.
Prakti CEO Mouhsine Serrar says  
he hopes Cummins’ research and development support will help his  
company develop the next generation  
of cook stoves – cleaner, more efficient  and durable while still affordable.
“We look forward to working with someone 
who has some expertise, who can take a fresh view … of the problem and maybe 
point to a different approach to achieving 
our goal,” Serrar said.
Prakti Design CEO Mouhsine 
Serrar talks about his cook 
stoves at a meeting kicking  
off the competition that was 
webcast to Cummins Emission 
Solutions employees around 
the world.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
86  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013In both places, he worked on improving 
systems, strategic and succession planning 
and strengthening global collaboration.
“In some ways Cummins’ business units 
are like the different divisions at Save 
the Children,” said Stoner, who retired 
in October 2012 after 13 years with the child welfare group, most recently as the 
organization’s Senior Vice President – 
International Programs and Chief Operating Officer. “It’s all about working effectively 
toward a common goal.” 
Stoner says he frequently drew on what he 
learned during his more than 20 years at 
Cummins where he worked in a variety of positions including as Vice President  of Cummins Power Generation Group  
and Managing Director of Holset Engineering, which later became  
Cummins Turbo Technologies.
But in many ways, Stoner had been 
preparing his whole life for his work with 
Save the Children, where he continues  
to serve on a volunteer basis.
Stoner is the son of Richard B. Stoner,  
who was Vice Chairman of the Cummins 
Board of Directors for 20 years and a  close associate of visionary Cummins  
CEO J. Irwin Miller. 
Rick’s father and Miller shared a belief in 
the life-changing power of education and 
a world view that extended far beyond 
Indiana’s borders. They handed down  those beliefs to their own children.
“My dad had a tremendous influence on 
me,” said Stoner, whose father died in 2008. “His values, his sense of fairness 
and his drive to improve all aspects of 
community life inspired me.” 
After graduating from Yale, Stoner joined 
the Peace Corps, working in Africa. It was 
an eventful experience for many reasons, among them: he met his wife Elizabeth Born to serve
Rick Stoner says his work at the international charitable 
group Save the Children wasn’t as different as you might 
think from his time as a Cummins executive. 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  87there. Upon returning home, Stoner went to 
law school at Harvard and later became an 
aide to then-U.S. Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind. 
Joining Cummins was just about  
the furthest thing from his mind then.  
But he was approached about becoming 
General Manager of the Company’s Africa 
operations based in London. That just 
happened to be where his wife’s family  was living after fleeing unrest in Ethiopia  
in the 1970s.
For the better part of 15 years, Stoner  
lived in England, serving in a variety of  
roles including plant manager at the 
Daventry Engine Plant before becoming Managing Director of Holset. 
Eventually, he returned to Columbus, 
taking on a number of other executive assignments including consolidating 
Cummins’ generator business. 
But Stoner never lost his passion for 
development work or Africa. He became a Cummins executive on loan to Save the 
Children in 1999. Then in 2001, he officially 
left the Company and became a full-time employee of the charitable organization. While Stoner is proud of what he accomplished organizationally at Save  
the Children, he also takes great pleasure 
in the schools he helped to start in Africa – some replacing mud huts that were serving 
as many as 120 students in a classroom.
“The children are so motivated to learn,” 
Stoner said.
Stoner made a huge difference during  
his time at Save the Children, according  
to Glyn Price, who himself is a former 
Cummins executive. Stoner was one  of Price’s supervisors at Cummins and  
his example inspired Price to join Save  
the Children, too.
Price was an executive on loan for  
18 months until March of 2013 when  
he retired from Cummins, but stayed on  as a volunteer with Save the Children.
“Rick brought an awful lot of business 
thinking and strategy to the not-for-profit business,” said Price. “That’s definitely  his legacy here.”
Rick Stoner stands outside 
George’s School in Ethiopia, 
dedicated in 2005 to the 
memory of longtime Cummins 
executive George Fauerbach. 
The school was built with 
donations from Cummins’ 
executives in honor of their colleague who died in 2002  
at age 55.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
88  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
But giving dollars is not a central 
component of the Company’s Corporate 
Responsibility program. Cummins wants  
to use its philanthropy to support employee efforts to use their skills and passions to 
build stronger communities.
Cummins invested more than $30.7 million 
in its corporate responsibility efforts in 2012, 
including $14.1 million to The Cummins 
Foundation. The Foundation, in turn, gave out nearly $8 million in grants in 2012. 
Those grants covered a wide range of 
activities, from lab equipment for science, technology, engineering and math education 
in Cookeville, Tenn.; to restoration of the 
Stamford Mill Stream in Stamford, U.K.,  to a program that establishes businesses 
and empowers women in Kenya.
The Foundation focuses primarily on 
communities where Cummins facilities are 
located and in support of the Company’s three global priorities: education,  
the environment and social justice /  
equality of opportunity. 
In 2012, about 65 percent of the 
Foundation’s spending went toward 
educational initiatives. Social justice  
and environmental spending accounted  for the remaining 35 percent.
In addition, there were grants totaling 
$637,990 from a Cummins-supported foundation in India. The Cummins India 
Foundation, established in 1990, supports 
higher education, energy, the environment and local infrastructure projects.
Finally, some philanthropic spending is 
made by individual business units within Cummins – just over $1.39 million in 2012.
A list of Cummins’ larger philanthropic 
contributions and projects during 2012  is included on the following pages.Supporting employee passions  
and skills through philanthropy
The Cummins Foundation is one of the oldest corporate 
foundations in the United States. It has played a critical  
role in hundreds of initiatives since its inception in 1954.
Cummins employees in 
Indianapolis used a grant to 
improve a playground for one 
of its community partners – 
the Concord Neighborhood 
Center. The improvements 
included a safer rubberized 
surface that is now home to  a play truck employees built  
as part of a fundraiser for 
Habitat for Humanity.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  89GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COmmUNITY GRANT OR DONATIONCUmmINS 
fOUNDATIONS CUmmINS INC.
Education
Jackson County Education Coalition
Advanced Manufacturing Lab and planning grantSeymour, Ind. $950,000
Save the ChildrenDisaster Relief Program Supporting Education in EmergenciesVarious $250,000
Phaltan Engineering CollegeTechnical Education for Communities (TEC)Phaltan, India $249,744
Chautauqua County Education Coalition
Planning grantJamestown, N.Y. $235,000
Community Center J. Irwin millerTechnical Education for Communities (TEC)São Paulo, Brazil  $212,000
komatsu Cummins Chile
Training and operational costs for ReinventaRSEQuilicura, Chile  $197,000
falconer’s Hill Infant SchoolDesign, development and construction of a resource centerNorthamptonshire, U.K.  $187,000
maharshi karve Stree Shikshan Samstha
Educational funding for Cummins College of  
Engineering for WomenNagpur, India  $181,818
Ivy Tech foundationGraduation Coaches ProgramColumbus, Ind.  $175,000
Community Education Coalition 
Early Childhood Education InitiativeColumbus, Ind. $125,000
Ithemba Institute of Technology Implementation of a sustainability plan by  
supporting operational expenses and safety upgradesJohannesburg, South Africa  $125,000
Education Business Partnership
Employability school for young peopleKent, U.K.  $106,112
Amherst H. Wilder foundationChild Development Center and Incredible Years ProgramSt. Paul, Minn.  $100,500
Stoughton High School  “Fab Lab” for technical education Stoughton, Wis.  $100,000
The mind Trust  Summer Advantage Program Seymour, Ind.  $100,000
International Youth foundationTEC Program – Soft skills teacher training at Morocco siteCasablanca, Morocco  $90,000
Charleston County School District4th grade science and environmental educationCharleston, S.C.  $79,989
The Library Project, Inc.  China Education Initiative Throughout China  $79,233
Strategic Twin-Counties Education Partnership
Root cause identification and strategic plan for  improving student achievementWhitakers, N.C. $75,000
Chhindwara Project  Sponsorship for Center of Excellence Chhindwara, India  $75,264
ITI Phaltan  Technical Education for Communities (TEC) Phaltan, India  $61,630
kwa-Bhekilange Secondary School  
Improve mathematics pass rate in grades 8-10Sandton, South Africa  $46,500
SIfE China  Provide safety, health and  
nutritional training to 15 migrant worker schoolsShanghai, China  $40,635
mineral Point Elementary SchoolSafe, eco-friendly and ADA accessible playgroundMineral Point, Wis.  $37,075
Putnam County SchoolsLab equipment for the STEM ProgramCookeville, Tenn. $29,500CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
90  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COmmUNITY GRANT OR DONATIONCUmmINS 
fOUNDATIONS CUmmINS INC.
Education – continued
Rowan Gate Primary School
Energy efficiency lighting projectNorthamptonshire, U.K.  $27,000
family Nurturing CenterChild abuse education and prevention in Northern KentuckyFlorence, Ky. $25,000
Amigos of Costa Rica / Estrategia Siglo xxIAdvance science and technology in Costa RicaCosta Rica $25,000
Ladson Elementary School
Greenhouse and outdoor classroomLadson, S.C.  $23,868
Bartholomew Consolidated School foundationMinds on MathColumbus, Ind.  $20,000
Dandelion middle School
Extracurricular programs for students with  
physical and psychological needsBeijing, China $18,885
Tennessee Tech UniversityPurchase of generator for mobile learning labCookeville, Tenn.  $17,000
Bartholomew Consolidated School foundation
Diversity AwardsColumbus, Ind.  $15,000
Bartholomew Consolidated School foundationBook Buddies ProgramColumbus, Ind.  $15,000
Bartholomew Consolidated School Corporation
Columbus Area Career Connection -  
Part-time instructor for Engineering Drawing DepartmentColumbus, Ind. $13,000
Young EnterpriseHelping children succeed through entrepreneurshipSunderland, U.K.  $10,200
Bartholomew Consolidated School Corporation
Environmental Challenge grant recipientColumbus, Ind.  $10,000
Heritage fund of Bartholomew CountyDave Galle Scholarship FundColumbus, Ind.  $10,000
Indiana University  Lee Hamilton Fellowship Award Bloomington, Ind.  $10,000
Environment
Columbus Park foundation  Expansion of the People Trails Columbus, Ind.  $250,000
Patronato Pro Regeneración  
del Parque Juan H. Sanchez A.C. 
Improve water quality of Parque Morales Boating LakeSan Luis Potosí, Mexico  $88,000
Yorkshire Wildlife TrustRenovation of community farm buildingsYork, U.K.  $55,000
mCCIA  Zero Garbage Project Pune, India  $40,079
Dandelion School
Eco-School energy and water efficiency improvement projectsBeijing, China  $38,500
friends of Nature
Public education and recycling campaignBeijing, China $37,309
International Association of the Lions Club – kenyaInstallation of two water pans in arid Samburu regionKenya & South Africa  $35,300
The Welland Rivers Trust
Restoration of Stamford Mill StreamStamford, U.K.  $32,000
Hands on Nashville  Repair flood damaged waterways Nashville, Tenn. $32,000CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  91GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COmmUNITY GRANT OR DONATIONCUmmINS 
fOUNDATIONS CUmmINS INC.
Environment – continued
Global Village of Beijing 
Solution for household waste and agriculture pollutionBeijing, China  $24,737
Global Village of BeijingEnvironmental Challenge grant recipientBeijing, China  $20,000
food Bank of Eastern New mexicoEnergy efficiency projectClovis, N.M.  $17,000
Housing Partnerships, Inc.  Energy efficiency project Elizabethtown, Ind.  $12,950
Durham Wildlife TrustOn-site viewing platform and screen made from recycled plasticTyne & Wear, U.K.  $12,250
City of Elkhart  Environmental Challenge grant recipient Elkhart, Ind. $10,000
Janwani  Environmental Challenge grant recipient Pune, India $10,000
Housing Partnerships, Inc.
Environmental Challenge grant recipientColumbus, Ind. $10,000
kandu Industries, Inc.
Environmental Challenge grant recipientJanesville, Wis. $10,000
Social Justice
United Way Agencies  U.S. matching program United States  $2,663,692
Courage Center  Elevate Assistive Technology Program  to a national level of prominenceMinneapolis, Minn.  $222,270
Wuxi Social Welfare CenterBuild seven specialized rooms for children with cerebral palsyWuxi, China  $203,520
food Bank of Eastern New mexicoCo-fund purchase of a new refrigerated truckClovis, N.M.  $123,055
Second Harvest foodbank of Southern Wisconsin
Warehouse efficiency projectMadison, Wis.  $103,552
Institución Potosina Pro-Educación  Especializada A.C. 
Vocational training space for people with intellectual disabilitiesSan Luis Potosí, Mexico  $75,000
Harewood Hill Lodge
Caregiver short break and day care services for disabled youthDarlington, U.K.  $72,050
CommonBond CommunitiesElectronic document management systemSt. Paul, Minn.  $67,120
Eastside Community Center
Materials to help define and remodel spaceColumbus, Ind.  $50,000
Habitat for Humanity of IndianaSponsorship for tornado relief rebuild projectHenryville, Ind.  $50,000
CommonBond CommunitiesAdvantage Services - Facilitate additional programs and services to the residents at Norwood Square and Brandes PlaceSt. Paul, Minn.  $42,600
maharashtra Arogya mandal-muktangan Girls Hostel 
Support vocational training and higher educationPune, India  $29,455
Community Emergency Assistance Program Software licensing, backup and firewall solutions  
for new computer systemBrooklyn Park, Minn.  $29,000CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
92  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COmmUNITY GRANT OR DONATIONCUmmINS 
fOUNDATIONS CUmmINS INC.
Social Justice – continued
Asociación mexicana de Ayuda a Niños  
AFIC Philanthropic AwardsSan Luis Potosí, Mexico  $26,316
Gleaners food Bank of Indiana, Inc.  Backsack Program Walesboro, Ind.  $25,000
Backfield in motion, Inc.  Purchase of 15-passenger van Nashville, Tenn.  $25,000
Autism Speaks  2012 Lead Off For A Cure New York, N.Y.  $25,000
The BOmA fundEstablish businesses and empower women in Northern KenyaKenya  $25,000
Crisis ministriesFunding to support 6 Sigma project and purchase a deep freezerCharleston, S.C.  $20,222
Concord Community Center   
Increase awareness and visibility of Concord  
to potential clients and fundersIndianapolis, Ind.  $20,000
Gleaners food Bank of Indiana, Inc.  Backsack Program Seymour, Ind.  $20,000
Upper Cumberland Long Term  Recovery Committee, Inc.  Tornado ReliefCarthage, Tenn.  $20,000
Wisconsin Vietnam Veterans memorial ProjectComplete a DVD project, roof and building replacementNeillsville, Wis.  $20,000
Ecoficina – Youth at Risk
Promote training course using recycled materialSão Paulo, Brazil  $19,400
Promoción Social Integral, A.C. AFIC Philanthropy AwardSan Luis Potosí, Mexico  $17,409
Developmental Services, Inc.
Purchase and assemble five greenhousesColumbus, Ind.  $15,065
Connected Community PartnershipWebsite services to non-profits in Columbus and SeymourColumbus, Ind.  $13,500
Gleaners food Bank of Indiana 
Improve client tracking and reporting of data  
for Gleaners and nine food pantriesIndianapolis, Ind.  $13,100
Secours Populaire français – Comité de Quimper Improve safety and storageQuimper, France  $11,700
Columbus Area Chamber of Commerce foundation
Support funding for Executive Administrator for CAMEO,  
CYP and LBC PartnershipColumbus, Ind.  $10,000
Columbus Regional Hospital foundation17th Annual Reverse Raffle for Volunteers in MedicineColumbus, Ind.  $10,000
CommonBond Communities
Environmental Challenge grant recipientSt. Paul, Minn.  $10,000
The Poona School and Home for Blind GirlsEnvironmental Challenge grant recipientPune, India  $10,000
Love Chapel  Environmental Challenge grant recipient Columbus, Ind.  $10,000
Sans Souci, Inc.  Environmental Challenge grant recipient Columbus, Ind.  $10,000
The Putnam/Overton County Long Term  
Recovery Committee, Inc.  Disaster Relief Cookeville, Tenn.  $10,000CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  93BOARD Of DIRECTORS
Chairman Tom Linebarger 
Chairman and CEO, Cummins
Director mark Levett 
Vice President – Corporate Responsibility 
and Community Relations, Cummins 
Director Will miller  
President – Wallace Foundation 
Member of Cummins Board of Directors
Director marya Rose 
Vice President and Chief  
Administrative Officer, Cummins
Director Pat Ward 
Vice President – Chief Financial  
Officer, Cummins
Director Tony Satterthwaite 
Vice President  
President – Power Generation  Business, Cummins
Director Anant Talaulicar 
Vice President President – Components Group 
Chairman – Cummins India
Director Rich freeland 
Vice President 
President – Engine Business, Cummins
Director Lisa Yoder 
Vice President – Global Supply Chain  
and Manufacturing, CumminsfOUNDATION OffICERS
Chief Executive Officer mark Levett 
Vice President – Corporate Responsibility 
and Community Relations, Cummins 
Treasurer marsha Allamanno  
Corporate Responsibility  Finance Director, Cummins
Secretary mary Chandler  
Corporate Responsibility Director of  Global Strategic Programs, Cummins
AUDIT COmmITTEE
Chair marsha Hunt 
Vice President – Controller, Cummins
Luther Peters 
Vice President – Internal Audit, Cummins
karen Battin 
Vice President – Controller,  
Engine Business, Cummins 
INVESTmENT COmmITTEE
Chair Gloria Griesinger 
Executive Director – Global Treasury  and Pensions, Cummins
Greg Ehlinger 
Executive Director –  Corporate Development, Cummins 
Rakesh Gangwani 
Director – EMEA Corporate  Development, Cumminsfoundation leadership
The Cummins Foundation is governed  
by these officials and committees:94  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
SAfETY
“I’m very proud of the way so many of our 
employees made a personal commitment to safety in 2012,” said Michelle Garner-
Janna, Director – Corporate Health and 
Safety. “Our long term goal is to achieve world class performance in health and safety. To get to that level, we need to build 
an interdependent spirit in our organizations 
where we care about each other’s safety  as much as we care about our own.”
Cummins health and safety leaders went 
into 2012 knowing it would be hard to top 
2011. The Company enjoyed a record year  
 for safety in 2011, meeting all of its targets for key safety metrics for the first time ever.
In response, Cummins raised its goals in 
2012, but nevertheless managed to meet 
most of them and record improvements  in several key areas, including:
 »A 24 percent reduction in the  
Severity Case Rate in 2012.
 »A 12 percent drop in the Incidence  
Rate compared to 2011.
 »A 6 percent improvement in 2012  in the Severity Lost Work Day Rate. SAfETY
Health and safety key to  
Cummins’ sustainability
Building on its record-setting performance in 2011, 
Cummins improved on several key safety metrics  
in 2012 while rolling out new initiatives that should  
enhance safety at the Company in the future.
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20160.00.20.40.60.81.01.2Severity Case Rate Indicator
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20160.00.51.01.52.02.53.0Incidence Rate IndicatorActual  
TargetTwo key safety metrics,  the Incidence Rate Indicator 
and the Severity Case Rate 
Indicator, have been falling  
over the past decade,  
a sign of the Company’s 
commitment to safety.SAfETY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  95 »Key safety metrics  
continue falling (page 94). 
 »Ergo Challenge  
saves $1.7 million  
(page 98).
 »Team’s new web tool  makes safety personal 
(page 100).Safety
POINTS Of 
INNOVATION  
“This is reflective of the hard work, 
commitment and diligence by our health and safety teams and active participation 
and support of all our employees,” said 
Pramod Palat, Cummins Occupational Safety Director.
Cummins believes strongly that its 
employees are the Company’s most 
valuable resource and keeping them safe impacts everything from productivity to treatment costs for work related injuries. 
The Company’s commitment to keeping 
employees healthy and safe can be seen 
in the steady reduction in the Incidence Rate and Severity Case Rate at Cummins over the past 10 years. The Incidence Rate, 
based on recordable injuries and illnesses, 
dropped 72 percent over that time period while the Severity Case Rate, based on  lost-time cases, decreased more than  80 percent since 2003.“Those numbers reflect both a  commitment to safety and to continuous improvement in our safety programs,”  
said Guillermo Castillo, Cummins  
Corporate Safety Manager.
Cummins initiated several programs during 
2012-2013 to improve health and safety. 
Some are designed to raise awareness 
about specific safety concerns like the first-ever, Company-wide ergonomics competition (page 98). The competition drew more than 70 entries that 
collectively saved an estimated  
$1.7 million.
Other initiatives were developed by 
individual business units to make it easier 
for employees to make health and safety 
a personal priority such as a web-based reporting tool that employees can use  to report safety problems they have identified and fixed (page 100).Cummins employee Kim Miller safely  
operates a hoist at the Columbus Engine  
Plant in Columbus, Ind. The Company’s  
health and safety team in 2012 rolled  
out a new hoist and crane safety policy  
and tool kit to guard against accidents. SAfETY
96  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The Company also rolled out a new Crane 
Safety Toolkit and partnered with groups outside Cummins to identify best practices 
the Company should adopt in the future.
CRANE SAfETY
At Cummins, hoists and cranes are 
frequently used to lift heavy objects 
weighing from a few hundred pounds  
to several tons. 
Sometimes familiarity can breed 
complacency. Employees may forget that all hoists and cranes should be operated 
with caution simply because of the potential 
damage that can result if a load falls.
Crane-related injuries are often  
severe and pose an important hazard  
for employees and operators alike.  
In 2012, Cummins consolidated the implementation of a re-designed crane safety policy and a toolkit aimed at preventing these types of accidents. 
The cross-functional effort has reduced 
crane-related incidents by more than  60 percent since its implementation. 
CAmPBELL INSTITUTE
In October 2012, Cummins was invited  
to become a member of the Campbell Institute (www.thecampbellinstitute.org), which is the Center of Excellence for Environmental, Health and Safety  
(EHS) at the National Safety Council. 
The Institute fosters healthy and high-
performing workplaces through the identification and sharing of best practices. 
Impact-driven, rigorous and cutting-edge, the Institute believes EHS is at the core  
of business vitality and sustainability,  and intrinsic to operational excellence  
and financial performance.
Some of the Institute’s charter  
members include: Dow Chemical  Company, Exxon Mobil Corporation, 
General Motors, Gulf Petrochemical 
Industries Company, United States  Steel Corporation, United Technologies  and the Whirlpool Corporation. 
“We believe participating in the  
Campbell Institute is both a tremendous 
honor and a wonderful opportunity to  learn from other leaders in health and safety,” said Kelli Smith, Cummins’ 
Occupational Health Director.
AUBURN UNIVERSITY
Cummins partnered with Auburn University 
in Auburn, Ala., in 2012 to look at how the Company approaches certain assembly 
tasks from an ergonomic perspective.
“Both the university and the Corporate 
Health and Safety Group saw this as a  great opportunity because it provided 
students a hands-on, ‘live’ opportunity 
to assess assembly tasks and it gave Cummins ergonomic support from an external point of view,” said Chris Shieldsmith, Corporate Ergonomist  
at Cummins.
The partnership resulted in a thoughtful 
solution that Shieldsmith says should help improve the way Cummins approaches 
certain assembly tasks. SAfETY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  97The business unit sponsored the Start 
Smart 2012 Teen Driver Safety Rally  
in August 2012 in Columbus, Ind.
Cummins partnered with the American 
Trucking Association and local sponsors to 
host the training-and-educational fair to give 
students driving tips to keep roads safe.
The rally took over the Central Avenue 
parking lot at the Columbus Engine Plant 
and featured a number of attractions to  help teens learn good driving habits.  
The day included a distracted driving  
course where teen drivers had the opportunity to drive a new Mini Cooper  
with a professional racecar driver on a 
specially prepared course. 
Cummins has taken a leading role in driver 
safety. For example, the Company has   prohibited employees from using their  cell phones while driving on Cummins 
business for the past two years.
Car crashes are a leading cause of on- 
the-job injuries across all industries both 
inside and outside the United States.
In addition to the rally, Cummins teamed  
up with Sara Bean, a Columbus East High  
School student, who for her senior year 
project worked with the Company’s video staff to produce a video warning of the 
potential consequences of distracted driving.
“Teens everywhere are not driving safely – 
even in the school parking lot,” Bean said. 
“Many are driving too fast and are often 
distracted by phones or loud music.  
It’s putting themselves and other  
drivers around them at risk.” 
Cummins Heavy-Duty Engine 
Business sponsored the 
inaugural Start Smart 2012 
Teen Driver Safety Rally in 
August 2012 in Columbus, 
Ind. Teen drivers had the 
opportunity to drive a new Mini 
Cooper with a professional 
racecar driver on a specially 
prepared course.Engine business tackles  
distracted driving among teens
Cummins Heavy-Duty Engine Business took aim at the 
safety problem of distracted driving among new drivers.SAfETY
98  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The three-month competition resulted 
in more than 70 entries from Cummins 
locations around the world. Employees 
suggested ways to adjust work tasks to more safely align with the natural movement 
of the human body. The 70 projects saved  
the Company an estimated $1.7 million  in costs avoided and lost productivity.
Safety officials said the contest inspired 
Cummins employees to think about ergonomics in new and creative ways  
and greatly encouraged an ergonomics 
culture throughout the Company.“I am really pleased by the quality of these projects,” said Chris Shieldsmith, 
Cummins’ Corporate Ergonomist. “I hope 
this competition will grow next year so we will be able to share even more outstanding 
ergonomic best practices and solutions  
with Cummins employees.”
Ergonomics is the study of efficiency in work 
environments. Bending, reaching and lifting 
in awkward ways is not only inefficient, it’s a leading source of injuries at the Company.
Contest entries were judged on innovation, 
simplicity, cost savings, ergonomic risk and presentation. The winning team, Cummins 
Power Generation China, developed  
an innovative hoist fixture to significantly  reduce the level of risk for multiple people 
while enhancing efficiency.
That project and a project at the Jamestown 
(N.Y.) Engine Plant were accepted into 
an international ergonomics competition. 
The Jamestown project redesigned the way engines are secured to carts to avoid 
the old process of pulling on straps with 
tremendous force. 
While neither project won, just being  
part of the international competition  
raised awareness about the importance  of ergonomics.Cummins holds first Company-wide  
Ergo Cup competition
The Corporate Health and Safety team launched Cummins’ 
first Ergo Cup competition in the fall of 2012 to promote 
ergonomics across the Company.
Cummins Power Generation 
China won the Company’s 
first Ergo Cup competition, 
developing an innovative hoist 
fixture to significantly reduce 
risk for multiple people while 
enhancing efficiency.SAfETY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  99As part of the Company’s first Ergo Cup competition, the Jamestown  
Engine Plant’s application included some excellent photos that illustrate  why ergonomics is so important to employee safety.
The Jamestown team redesigned the way it secures engines to building carts to 
take second place in the competition. We asked Chris Shieldsmith, Corporate Ergonomist at Cummins, to tell us what he sees in the team’s pictures:
Ergonomics in action
BEfORE
“The task of strapping the engine to the engine build 
cart requires the operator to bend in compromising 
postures while exerting up to 70 pounds of force to 
activate the buckle on the strap twice,” Shieldsmith said. “The combination of force and poor posture 
could lead to multiple types of musculoskeletal injuries 
including, but not limited to, a wrist or back strain.”
 AfTER 
“The solution eliminated the straps that were used 
to hold the engine to the build cart and replaced 
them with a mechanism that is bolted to the engine 
and hooks the engine to the cart,” Shieldsmith said. “The new process completely eliminated the forceful 
exertion that was required to lock the straps and 
also kept the operator standing upright with minimal bending, effectively eliminating any postural risks  
that were associated with the job as well.”SAfETY
100  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Observance of the EBU’s April Awareness 
Event in 2013, however, took safety to a new level thanks to safety leaders, the Information Technology staff at the 
Columbus Engine Plant and the EBU’s 
Corporate IT staff.
Working together, they created an easy-to-
use, web-based tool as part of the EBU’s “Find It, Fix It” campaign. The tool enables 
employees, whether at home or at work, 
to report with a few strokes of a computer keyboard any health or safety concern that they identified and fixed. 
With the new tool in place and rolled out to 
EBU employees around the world, reports more than doubled in April 2013, from 13,386 the previous year to 28,449.
“The main purpose of this initiative is to 
change people’s behavior to get them to 
decide ‘I will get this fixed and I will get it fixed now,’” said Bertrand Piredda, Health, Safety and Environment Director of EBU 
Global Operations. 
The Find It, Fix It campaign adds a little 
friendly competition to the EBU’s safety efforts as employees strive to report the most health and safety problems identified  and corrected. Some locations award gift cards and other prizes to the employees  or teams of employees that resolve the most problems.
Safety leaders say the program encourages  
Cummins workers to take a personal 
interest not only in their own safety but in the  
safety of their co-workers. And it establishes a framework so employees can talk about 
safety problems with their co-workers 
without appearing critical or confrontational. 
The safety problems identified during safety 
month in 2013 included such things as 
improper storage of hand tools and engine 
carts, the absence of protective guards around rotating pieces of equipment, equipment with sharp metal edges and potential obstacles in the way of workers 
walking the plant floor. One employee 
even identified and fixed an unsafe traffic condition in the parking lot at his workplace.  
Safety leaders like seeing employees extend 
their concern for safety beyond plant walls 
because it’s an indication that they are incorporating safety into their daily lives.
Stacy Wyatt, Health and Safety Engineer  
at the Columbus Engine Plant, said the tool Web tool helps put safety first
Safety month each April was already a big hit within the 
Engine Business Unit (EBU) at Cummins, resulting in the 
identification and repair of literally thousands of unsafe  
acts or conditions worldwide since it was initiated in 2010.SAfETY
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  101also reduced administrative tasks typically 
associated with safety auditing programs.
“This computer program makes it so much 
easier to report, collect and analyze data,” 
she said. “I think it will really help us embed safety into the lives of our employees.”
Cummins believes strongly that employees 
must take personal responsibility for 
safety to establish a world-class safety environment. Getting employees to make a personal commitment to safety through tools like Find It, Fix It is a key component  
of the Company’s “Safety Begins with  
Me” campaign.
The April safety month also includes video 
messages from senior leaders, recognition 
of significant employee contributions to 
safety, employee meetings on safety,  and a celebration of World Day for  Safety and Health at Work.
Wyatt says the April Awareness Event and 
other steps have helped to change the plant 
floor culture within the Engine Business Unit. Employees were initially reluctant to confront someone engaged in an unsafe 
practice. Now, she says, employees across 
the business unit recognize that safety is everyone’s responsibility. 
Corporate safety officials say EBU’s version 
of the safety month and the new computer 
tool are being made available to Cummins 
business units across the Company.
“World-class HSE (Health Safety and the 
Environment) is not a status we achieve only 
for one month, but our April initiative is one 
more step in the right direction,” Piredda said.
Columbus Engine Plant 
employees Danny Leckron  
and Ray Batemen hang  
a safety banner for the  
Engine Business Unit’s  
safety month in April 2013.102  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013EmPLOYEE RELATIONS
But leveraging the full benefit of a diverse 
workforce doesn’t end with representation. Cummins believes inclusion, the creation of an atmosphere where employees feel 
safe to share their full opinions and even 
disagree on occasion, is key to tapping  into the power of diversity.
“We don’t ask employees to always  
agree with each other,” said Andre  
Goodlett, Cummins Diversity Relations 
Director. “Embracing diversity in the workplace means treating each  other with dignity and respect when 
expressing or receiving different 
perspectives. It’s in competing ideas  that we truly see the power of diversity.”
Cummins’ Global Diversity Department 
will be focusing on inclusion over the next year, working with various departments and business units to embed diversity into their business strategies. The department wants 
to be a resource where business leaders 
can go to learn how to develop a workplace where ideas flourish.
Fortunately, the department has more than 
50 years of history to build upon, dating 
back to legendary CEO J. Irwin Miller,  who helped Dr. Martin Luther King with his 1963 March on Washington when Miller was president of the National Council of Churches. Miller, who led Cummins for 
some 40 years before retiring in 1977  
and served on the Board of Directors until his death in 2004, was practicing diversity before the term had even been coined.
“Character, ability and intelligence are not 
concentrated in one sex over the other, nor 
in persons with certain accents, or in certain races, or in persons holding degrees from some universities over others,” Miller said 
in a quotation still prominently used across 
the Company. “When we indulge ourselves in such irrational prejudices, we damage 
ourselves most of all and ultimately assure 
ourselves of failure in competition with  those more open and less biased.”
It’s a philosophy shared by current 
Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger  
who took over as leader of Cummins  
in January 2012.
“Cummins’ success today would not be 
possible without our deep commitment  
to diversity,” said Linebarger, who joined  
the Company in 1994. 
EmPLOYEE RELATIONSThe power of diversity and inclusion
Cummins has long believed in the power generated  
by bringing together people with diverse backgrounds  
to solve a problem or meet a challenge.EmPLOYEE RELATIONS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  103“At Cummins, we want to create an 
inclusive work environment where the diverse ideas and perspectives of our 
employees drive innovation for solving 
tomorrow’s business challenges,” he said. “Diversity will help us better serve our customers around the world and deliver 
results that will sustain our future growth 
and success.”
The Global Diversity staff helps to create  
the right environment for leveraging the  full benefit of diversity in several ways.
The staff supports more than 100 employee 
resource groups charged with helping to uphold and enhance the Company’s diversity-related initiatives.
Affinity Groups are organized around 
specific demographic traits under-represented at the Company such as women, African-Americans and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) 
employees. These groups typically  
focus on recruiting, retention and career development while also representing  the concerns of their particular 
demographic group to senior leaders.
 Local Diversity Councils, meanwhile,  
are site-based groups designed to  promote diversity in general and to  
identify any diversity-related issues  
or challenges to site leadership.
The Global Diversity Department also  
works on special projects, policies  
and procedures related to diversity.  
For example, in 2012 the Company released a policy statement clarifying  the expression and exercise of religion  in the workplace. The statement supports 
appropriate expressions of individual  
beliefs but does not permit attempting  to change another’s point of view.
Finally, the department provides  
oversight, infrastructure, and  
compliance expertise to Cummins’  U.S. Affirmative Action programs.
Goodlett believes the Company is  
poised to take its diversity initiatives  
to the next level.
“At Cummins, the conversation is 
now about how we get the maximum competitive advantage from our diverse 
workforce,” he said. “That’s a very  
exciting conversation to be having.”Chairman and CEO Tom 
Linebarger addresses a town 
hall meeting in 2013 sponsored 
by the Corporate and CBS 
Local Diversity Council. 
Cummins leaders have used 
this forum to discuss the state 
of diversity at the Company.
 »Cummins India creates 
opportunities for women (page 104).
 »Employee groups set  the right environment  for success (page 106).
 »Company prepares next generation of leaders 
(page 110).Employee Relations
POINTS Of 
INNOVATION  EmPLOYEE RELATIONS
104  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Women are now working from 2 to 10 p.m. 
in the plant at Cummins’ Megasite, about two hours southeast of Pune. They normally 
are not allowed to work past 7 p.m. but 
Tata Cummins is one of a select number of manufacturers given permission by the 
government to allow women to work the 
second shift. 
The plant has taken a number of steps to 
help women who want to work that shift, 
appointing female security guards at the facility, ensuring safety while traveling to 
and from the plant, providing self-defense 
training and more. In some cases,  Company officials even met with the  parents of job candidates to dispel their fears about working at the plant.
“Getting permission from the government to 
have women work in the second shift was 
a major breakthrough,” said Ashwath Ram, Tata Cummins JV Leader. “This is the next 
step in our continued pursuit to have more 
women representation in the workplace.”
Cummins leaders have been working hard 
to increase diversity from the shop floor 
through the professional ranks, and then to leverage the power of diversity to improve 
Company performance. Their efforts have 
been noticed by the news media in India.
Pursuing diversity in India
For much of the past year, workers on the second  
shift at Tata Cummins Limited Plant 2 in Phaltan have 
witnessed something rarely seen on a shop floor in  
India after 7 p.m. Women.
Women can now be seen 
working on the shop floor  
at Cummins’ Megasite  
in Phaltan, India after  
7 p.m. Cummins India is 
working hard to increase 
opportunities for women. EmPLOYEE RELATIONS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  105“It’s good to have diverse people sitting 
around the table and thinking – people who 
are differently wired, (and) think differently,” 
Nagarajan Balanaga, Cummins India’s Human Resources Leader, told The Times 
of India in 2012.
That particular story focused on the 
recruiting of people from different regions  
of the country to work at Cummins facilities. 
The Times, however, has also noted Cummins’ efforts to bring more women  
into the workforce in a separate piece.
The WILL Forum India, a forum for women 
in leadership, noticed, too. It named 
Cummins one of five winners of its Best 
Employer for Women in Corporate India award at the fifth Women in Leadership 
Conference in Mumbai in October 2012.
The number of women in professional  
jobs at Cummins facilities in India has been 
increasing dramatically, from 4 percent in 
2004 to 27.5 percent in 2011. Cummins India re-launched the Women’s Affinity 
Group and named Priyadarshini Gupta the 
business organization’s Diversity Leader.
“Being a woman, I feel deeply passionate 
about growing representation as well as 
growing women leaders at Cummins,” Gupta said.“I believe having a good mix of men  and women both in the workplace and  
in leadership will benefit the Company.”
The Women’s Affinity Group has been 
working on a number of issues ranging  
from child care solutions to mentoring  
and coaching women with the potential  to be leaders to helping women integrate 
their work life with their home life.  
The Affinity Group has also set up  meetings with the women on the  
second shift at Tata Cummins.
“Cummins in India believes 
in the value that diversity in 
thought brings to business. 
We recognize this is  
an important value at  
Cummins and see a clear 
business case in having 
better representation  
of diverse groups.”
PRIYADARSHINI GUPTA 
DIVERSITY LEADER –
CUMMINS INDIA AREA  
BUSINESS ORGANIZATION To aid women who want to 
work, Cummins facilities in 
India have taken steps like 
appointing female security 
guards, providing safe escorts 
to and from plants and 
providing self-defense training.EmPLOYEE RELATIONS
106  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013“In Southern Indiana, there are about  
1,500 Cummins employees under 30,” 
said Su, an Account Specialist at Cummins 
Emission Solutions in Columbus, Ind.  “But they are in different business units  
and different departments and they  
need a way to meet.”
Su and others created Mandala, which 
loosely translated from the Indian language 
of Sanskrit means circle. The group focuses on completing the circle for employees 
under 30 in Southern Indiana. It’s one of 
a growing number of resource groups created by employees over the last three 
years to address recruiting, retention and 
career development of under-represented demographic groups at Cummins.
“The chartering of employee resource 
groups has been growing by almost  10 percent per year since 2010,” said 
Andre Goodlett, who oversees the groups 
as the Diversity Relations Director. “We’re especially seeing growth outside the United 
States as our business units really embrace 
Cummins’ diversity value.”Cummins has two different kinds of employee resource groups. In addition to 
Affinity Groups, the Company has Local 
Diversity Councils, which are site-based groups charged with creating an inclusive 
work environment at a particular location. 
There are 51 Local Diversity Councils and 50 Affinity Groups across the Company 
representing African-Americans,  
employees with disabilities, Latinos,  lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender 
employees; veterans, women and more. 
Most of the growth has come from Affinity 
Groups and much of it has followed 
Company efforts in 2010 and 2011 to 
embed diversity in Cummins operations outside the United States. New groups  
have been established in Africa, Australia, 
Brazil, China, India and the United Kingdom in recent years.
Sarah Wyllie, an HR Generalist at Cummins 
Power Generation in Kent, U.K., joined the Company in the May of 2012. A few months 
later, she helped start ROAR – Recruiting, 
Onboarding, Advancing and Retaining. Employee groups create  
inclusive work environment
Chang Su had already put together a successful singles 
networking group. So when he saw a need for younger 
Cummins employees in Southern Indiana to meet and  
share common interests, he didn’t hesitate to organize  
a new Affinity Group.EmPLOYEE RELATIONS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  107The group is focused on helping employees 
who have been with the Company for  
less than two years navigate Cummins  
and aims to provide a support network which will allow them to develop their 
careers at the Company.
“I’m lucky, I’m in a position where I get  
to meet a wide range of people,” she said  
of the operations at Kent which employ 
about 550 people. “But there are others who work in very small departments who 
might not get that opportunity.” 
ROAR has sponsored various networking 
opportunities including one where participants flew paper airplanes  with their employee ID numbers. 
Participants had to pick up an  
airplane that wasn’t their own  and pledge to have coffee with the  
person whose number was on it. 
The group is also organizing events  
to meet the leadership team at the site  
and learn about other departments.
“These groups play a very important  
role at Cummins,” Goodlett said.  
“They help us create the kind of  
inclusive work environment we  need to be successful.”
Affinity Groups often sponsor speeches and presentations at the Company. In February 2013, the Southern 
Indiana Special Needs and Abilities Affinity Group and the Worldwide Veterans and Supporters Affinity Group 
jointly sponsored a speech by Josh Bleill, who lost his legs when an improvised explosive device detonated 
during a patrol in Iraq. He was serving with the U.S. Marines in 2006. Now, Bleill delivers inspirational  
speeches on overcoming challenges. Here, he shakes hands with Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger.Cummins took stands over the 
past year against state proposals 
in Indiana and Minnesota to 
prohibit same-sex couples  from marrying.
Cummins Power Generation 
President Tony Satterthwaite released a letter in October 2012 
stating that a proposed state 
amendment defining marriage as only between a man and a woman 
in Minnesota would create a “less 
welcoming environment” for all prospective employees and make 
it more difficult to recruit the best 
and brightest job candidates.
In Indiana, Cummins  
Executive Director of Corporate 
Communications Carole Casto shared the same message  
in a televised discussion  
surrounding a similar amendment.
And Cummins in March 2013 
joined more than 250 other 
companies as a signatory to an amicus curiae brief filed with the 
U.S. Supreme Court opposing 
Proposition 8 in California,  which prohibits same-sex  
couples from marrying.
Minnesota voters turned down 
the amendment while Indiana 
lawmakers postponed action 
pending the Supreme Court’s decision on the constitutionality  
of California’s law.CUmmINS OPPOSES  
mARRIAGE AmENDmENTSEmPLOYEE RELATIONS
108  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Cummins was named 2012 Corporation of 
the Year by Minority Supplier Development 
China, which links large corporations and 
ethnic minority-owned businesses. The Company was also runner up for the 2012 
Corporation of the Year award presented  
by Minority Supplier Development U.K.
“We can truly say that diversity procurement 
is a concept that applies globally,”  
said Michelle Taylor, Cummins Diversity Procurement Leader. “But we must be 
careful to develop initiatives that fit our 
international regions. The last thing  we want is to use our North American  
model as a one-size fits all approach.”
Cummins believes diversity procurement 
is a key business strategy with bottom-line 
benefits. Developing diverse suppliers gives 
the Company a competitive advantage by  increasing competition for its business needs. It also aligns with customer 
expectations and creates economic 
opportunities within all communities  where Cummins employees live and work.
Diversity procurement started as  
an initiative primarily pursued by U.S.- based companies. But in recent years,  
it has started to take root outside the  
United States.
Expanding the scope of diversity 
procurement internationally is just one  
goal of Cummins’ Diversity Procurement team. The Company also wants to increase 
both the amount and the percentage of  
its spending with diverse suppliers.
The Company made progress in  
both of these areas in 2012.Diversity Procurement goes global
Cummins’ efforts to take diversity procurement outside  
the United States are off to a good start, but leaders  
caution there is much work ahead.
The Cummins team at 
a diversity procurement 
tradeshow in Indianapolis 
in 2012.EmPLOYEE RELATIONS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  1092012 PERfORmANCE
Despite the global economic downturn  
in the second half of 2012, Cummins 
diverse spend increased from just over  $810 million in 2011 to $890 million in  
2012 – an increase of almost 10 percent.  
Diverse spending at Cummins increased  91 percent between 2007 and 2012.
The Company also increased the 
percentage of its spending with diverse suppliers, from 12.2 percent in 2011 to  
13.1 percent in 2013.
“The economic climate doesn’t matter in my 
mind,” said Taylor who replaced longtime 
leader Gordon Fykes who retired in 2013.  
“If it’s the right thing to do in a good economy, it’s the right thing to do in  
a challenging economy, as well.”
Taylor would like to see the Diversity 
Procurement staff challenge its largest 
suppliers to use more diverse suppliers  
as sub contractors. She also wants  to engage purchasing leaders about  
the Company’s future technology  
and advanced manufacturing needs  so diverse suppliers can be ready. 
REACHING OUT
Cummins is involved in several initiatives 
designed to help develop more diverse 
suppliers in the future, including:
 »The Company sponsors an annual 
student competition at LeMoyne- Owen College in Memphis, Tenn.  The competition at the historically  
black college asks students to identify 
solutions to various business challenges.  
This year’s challenge: “How does  a company with headquarters in  the United States such as Cummins maintain its platform of ethics in  different countries with different  
values and continue to be profitable?”
 »The Company is a member of the  
Great Lakes certifying committee of WBENC (Women Business Enterprise 
National Council). Cummins is also a 
member of WEConnect International, which helps empower women business owners to succeed.
 »Cummins will leverage its membership 
with the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council by co-sponsoring “Conversations with Cummins” in an effort to engage and prepare successful 
diverse suppliers on future enterprise-
wide growth opportunities that will  require capacity planning over the  next three to five years.
Spending on diverse suppliers
in millions of dollars
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012The total amount of money Cummins has been 
spending with diverse suppliers since 2007. 
$810.10 million$544.90 million$432.70 million$571.60 million$464.40 million
$890 million200400600800EmPLOYEE RELATIONS
110  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The effort starts when employees begin 
onboarding sessions on their first day on the 
job. It continues with a robust performance 
management system to help them succeed. And the Company believes great leadership 
is especially important, so it offers a number 
of initiatives to train and develop Cummins’ next generation of leaders.
Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger 
has identified leadership as one of the Company’s five key growth accelerators, 
critical to creating the right work 
environment for success.
“Leadership development is critical for 
growing leaders who can motivate and 
support our employees, who are the reason for our success,” Linebarger said in his year-end message to employees in 2012. “It is also important for ensuring 
our Company’s long-term success by 
developing new leaders for the next generation now.”
Leaders and managers learn early  
on that to succeed they must have  a development mindset, built on five  
key skill areas Cummins believes are 
essential to great leadership:
 »Coach and develop
 »Foster open communications
 »Manage diversity
 »Talent management
 »Think strategically / Set the aimDeveloping new leaders  
key to sustainability
Cummins never stops working to develop  
a sustainable workforce.
Harsh Khandelwal is an 
engineer at Cummins 
Technical Center in 
Columbus, Ind.EmPLOYEE RELATIONS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  111By developing leaders in these areas 
through structured programs as well 
as ensuring employees work with 
their managers on these skills every day, Cummins believes its workforce 
development efforts are both effective  
and sustainable.
STARTING Off
Weeklong onboarding workshops  
provide new employees with the background they need to be successful, 
including information on the Company’s 
history and culture, as well as Cummins Code of Business Conduct.
Employees are also introduced to the 
Company’s Performance Management System, a web-based program designed 
to ensure employees know their managers’ 
expectations, what they need to accomplish and how to improve.
The system is built around providing 
employees with the consistent feedback they need to develop and succeed.  
That feedback comes from a wide range 
of stakeholders including peers and direct reports – not just their managers.
With more than half of Cummins’ employees  
living outside the United States, the 
Company takes a global view of workforce 
development. The Performance 
Management System, for example, is available in 12 different languages. 
Approximately 16,000 professionals  
are now in system. 
The Company is also continuing work to 
achieve consistent functional development 
within various disciplines so someone in finance in India, for example, is acquiring 
the same skills and is evaluated in the  
same way as a finance employee in Brazil.LEADERSHIP DEVELOPmENT
Cummins recognizes that nothing is as 
career-limiting as a bad boss who doesn’t 
help his or her employees reach their full potential. That’s why the Company’s 
development efforts target leaders at 
various stages in their careers.
Cummins conducted numerous modules  
of the Company’s “Building Success 
in Others” program in 2012. The effort is primarily focused on helping leaders 
of professionals better understand the 
expectations the Company has for them  as well as to develop the skills to fulfill  
those expectations.
Launched in 2011, Building Success  
in Others will eventually be rolled out to 
about 4,000 leaders globally. An intensive 
3½ day classroom session on coaching direct reports is the centerpiece of the 
overall program. Participants say they 
appreciate the opportunity to practice  their skills and obtain meaningful  
feedback from their peers. 
Meanwhile, Cummins completed its Global 
Leadership Development program in 2012 
in China and India. The 18-month program 
prepares approximately 15 high potential employees from one of the Company’s Area 
Business Organizations for future global 
leadership roles. The initiative will be rolled out in South America and Africa in 2013.
The Leadership Culture Series, an initiative 
targeting the Company’s top 250 leaders created in 2009, moved into a new phase 
in 2012 as participants cascaded what they 
learned about the five key skills to leaders within their own organizations.Cummins employs a  
global, high-tech workforce. Here’s a quick look at the 
Company’s 46,000 employees  
as of April 2013:
WHO
 »Information Technology  
962 (2 percent)
 »Engineering or  
science degree but  
not in engineering  
3,764 (8 percent)
 »Engineers  7,206 (16 percent)
WHAT
 »Union 34 percent
 »Non-union  66 percent
WHERE
 »Inside the U.S. 38 percent
 »Outside the U.S. 62 percentOUR WORkfORCE  
AT A GLANCEGOVERNANCE
112  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013
GOVERNANCE
“The updated Code addresses issues 
ranging from our commitment to diversity and how we treat each other to how we 
compete fairly for business around the 
world,” Cummins Chairman and CEO  Tom Linebarger said in a note to all employees announcing the update.
“It also reminds us of our key and 
unchanging responsibility as Cummins employees to behave ethically at all times and to report behavior that doesn’t live  up to our standards,” he added.
The update includes new 
guidance on everything 
from using social media 
responsibly to protecting 
intellectual property  
at a global company.  
The update also includes 
numerous reminders that 
there are multiple ways  
to report a potential  
problem or get advice  
to avoid problems. Cummins periodically updates its Code  to reflect societal and business changes. The Code was last updated in 2009.  
The update was one of the first tasks 
completed by the Company’s new  Ethics and Compliance staff in 2012.  The document was reviewed by Company 
leaders and Cummins Board of Directors,  
as well as employees around the world  to ensure it was relevant across borders and cultures.
The updated Code was translated and 
posted on the Company’s Intranet site  
in 16 languages. It continues to be built around Cummins’ 10 Ethical Principles:
 1 We will follow the law –  
  everywhere.
 2 We will embrace diverse  
  perspectives and backgrounds  
  and treat all people with dignity  
  and respect.
 3 We will compete fairly and honestly.
 4 We will avoid conflicts of interest.New code guides ethical behavior
Cummins renewed its commitment to good governance  
and ethical behavior in January 2013 by releasing  
an updated Cummins Code of Business Conduct.GOVERNANCE
Report ethical concerns at ethics.cummins.com      1Code of Business Conduct
Ethics Driven — Every Time
The updated Code includes 
new guidance on everything 
from using social media 
responsibly to protecting 
intellectual property at a 
global company.GOVERNANCE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  113
 5 We will demand that everything  
  we do leads to a cleaner, healthier  
  and safer environment.
 6 We will protect our technology,  
  our information and our  
  intellectual property.
 7 We will demand that our  
  financial records and processes  
  are clear and understandable.
 8 We will strive to improve  
  our communities.
 9 We will communicate  
  with honesty and integrity.
 10 We will create a culture where  
  all employees take responsibility  
  for ethical behavior.
ETHICS SURVEY
In addition to updating the Code,  
the Company also surveyed office  
and professional employees in 2012 to 
assess where Cummins stands globally  on ethics and compliance issues.The first-ever Compliance and Ethics  survey was completed by a third party in June and July of 2012. Individual employee responses were anonymous and were  
not shared with anyone at Cummins.  
About 14,000 employees participated.
The survey found that the vast majority  
of employees are both aware of the Cummins Code of Business Conduct  
and the importance of ethical behavior  
to the sustainability of the Company.
However, the survey revealed pockets 
within the Company where awareness  
could improve. In addition, the survey 
suggested awareness could be raised about the help available to Cummins employees on ethical issues.
Help can be obtained through a number 
of sources including the Company’s Law 
Department and Ethics and Compliance staff. Employees around the world can  also report problems and concerns to 
Cummins Ethics Help Line (page 114).  
They can report those concerns anonymously where allowed by law. 
GOVERNANCECummins Chairman and 
CEO Tom Linebarger talks 
to students at Indiana 
University’s Kelley School of 
Business where he spoke 
on the topics of Corporate 
Responsibility and Ethics at 
Cummins. The speech was hosted by the Delta Sigma  
Pi Business Fraternity at  
the school.
 »Updated Code guides 
employees (page 112).Governance
POINTS Of 
INNOVATION  GOVERNANCE
114  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  PERCENT 
TRAINING ENROLLED COmPLETE
Anti-bribery 18,103 98
Antitrust and Fair Competition 18,364 99
Careful Communication 23,477 98
Code of Business Conduct 14,454 100
Conflicts of Interest  22,967 97
Export Compliance 18,031 98
Global Competition 
Principles and Practices 11,689 96
Information Protection 23,365 97
Intellectual Property 5,807 99
Lobbying and Political Activity 572 98
Records /  Information Management 23,209 97
Treatment of Each Other At Work 13,625 100
Fair Labor Standards Act 515 98
Managing Within the Law 528 99
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards Compliance 322 98
Grand Total 183,663 98TRAINING
Cummins puts its ethical principles 
into practice through a comprehensive 
compliance training program targeting 
appropriate employee groups to  promote ethical behavior.
The Company has required courses  
on topics ranging from Anti-Bribery  
and Information Protection to Lobbying  and Political Action. Most of the training  is delivered through on-line courses available in multiple languages.
The Company’s policies and procedures  
in these areas are periodically updated  and new training initiatives are established to help employees stay aligned with 
Cummins Code of Business Conduct.
ETHICS VIOLATIONS, REPORTING 
AND INVESTIGATIONS
Any code of conduct must be enforced 
to be effective. Cummins employees are 
frequently reminded that they have an 
obligation to report suspected Code of Business Conduct violations to protect  and preserve what makes Cummins a  
great place to work.
They can do that in a number of ways, 
including through senior leaders, their Human Resources representative, their supervisor, the Law Department, the Ethics 
and Compliance staff and they can report  
it on-line at ethics.cummins.com.
They can also call the Cummins Ethics Help 
Line. Violations at any level of the Company 
are acted on swiftly and appropriately and 
all reports are investigated.2012 COmPLIANCE TRAINING
Thousands of employees receive compliance training every  
year at Cummins. These figures are accumulated enrollments  
going back to when the training courses were first implemented:GOVERNANCE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  1151,196
54
13
14,000
17,6661,196
Number of Code of Conduct 
cases around the world investigated by Cummins
54
Percentage of those  cases substantiated
13
Average number of days  to close Code of Conduct cases in 2012, the same 
number of days as 2011
14,000
Cummins employees 
participating in the first- ever Compliance and Ethics 
survey completed in June  
and July of 2012
17,666
Employees and officers  who completed their  Ethics Certification at  
Cummins in 2012Cummins’ team of Master Investigators 
responds to reports of Code violations. 
They make sure appropriate action is  
taken in a timely manner. The Company  has Master Investigators in most regions  of the world.
No one’s career at Cummins can be 
negatively affected by reporting suspected Code violations made in good faith. Where permitted by local law, employees can report potential violations anonymously.
In 2012, Cummins investigated  
1,196 Code of Business Conduct-related complaints compared to 1,076 in 2011. Forty-six percent of those complaints  
came from outside the United States,  
and 26 percent of all complaints were reported anonymously.
Of the cases investigated in 2012,  
54 percent were substantiated and  
40 percent of those substantiated  
cases resulted in employee terminations. Reports of unprofessional behavior and those grouped into the category of Human 
Relations accounted for most of the cases. 
The Company averaged 13 days to close cases in 2012, the same as in 2011. 
Reported violations are closely monitored 
by Cummins’ senior leaders. Each quarter, 
business unit leaders receive an update 
on reports in their business or region. Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger also receives updates and the Audit Committee 
of the Cummins Board of Directors reviews 
an annual report.ETHICS CERTIfICATION PROCESS 
Employees certify their compliance with  
the Company’s Code of Business Conduct 
and underlying policies every year and report any exceptions to Cummins policy.
In 2012, 17,666 employees and officers 
completed their annual Ethics Certification 
including all members of the Board of Directors. Internal Audit and Cummins Law Department reviewed any exceptions to ensure they were documented and 
investigated, according to Company policy.
SUPPLIER CODE Of CONDUCT
Cummins’ suppliers are held to a higher 
standard than just compliance with local 
laws. The Company’s Supplier Code of 
Conduct has been translated into multiple languages to ensure suppliers around the world know the standards they are expected to meet.
The Code includes provisions banning  
child or forced labor, respecting employee rights and providing a safe workplace  for employees. The Company wants to  
do business with suppliers that share  
its passion for sustainable practices  and policies.
In 2013, Cummins sent its code to the 
Company’s top suppliers who collectively 
receive about 80 percent of Cummins’  
total spending. All reported they were  in compliance. The Company’s Supplier  Code of Conduct is scheduled to be 
updated in 2013.GOVERNANCE  
BY THE NUmBERSGOVERNANCE
116  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The Board of Directors oversees the  
affairs of the Company, representing  and protecting the interests of Cummins’ 
stakeholders. It exercises sound and 
independent business judgment regarding significant, strategic and operational issues. 
The Board also advises senior management 
and adopts governance principles consistent  
with Cummins’ Vision, Mission and Values.
Cummins Chairman and CEO Tom 
Linebarger is the only Cummins employee on the Board of Directors. The other  
eight directors are independent of the 
Company. Each Director must stand for election annually.
The Board takes an active role in fulfilling its 
responsibilities. For example, it traveled to 
Nashville, Tenn., in 2012 to see Cummins’ new Customer Care facility, meeting with key Company personnel to review strategy.
The Board monitors a number of  
issues, including:
 »The performance of the Company.
 »The performance of senior management.
 »Compliance with all applicable laws  and regulations.
 »Communications and relationships  
with stakeholders.
 »The effectiveness of internal controls  and risk management practices.
 COmmITTEES
Cummins Board of Directors  
has six standing committees:
 »Audit Committee
 »Compensation Committee
 »Executive Committee
 »Finance Committee
 »Governance and Nominating Committee
 »Safety, Environment and  
Technology Committee
The Company complies with all New 
York Stock Exchange and regulatory 
requirements concerning the  membership of certain committees.
INTERNAL AUDIT
Cummins Internal Audit department 
provides to Board members and senior 
leaders independent and objective information on the performance of the Company’s control environment. The Vice 
President – Internal Audit reports to the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. In 2012, the Internal Audit Group published 134 audit reports and memos.
To ensure management has addressed 
identified risks and implemented corrective 
action, Internal Audit has a formal follow-up process. The responsible business or functional leader must present a corrective 
action plan to the Audit Committee of  
the Board of Directors when a function  or business receives an “Unacceptable” audit grade.Board exercises independent judgmentGOVERNANCE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  117
fRANkLIN CHANG-DIAz
Chairman and CEO of Ad  
Astra Rocket Company, a U.S. 
spaceflight engineering company 
based in Houston, Texas.  He joined the Board in 2009.
GEORGIA R. NELSON
President and CEO of 
PTI Resources, LLC, an 
independent consulting firm. 
She joined the Board in 2004.
ROBERT k. HERDmAN
Managing Director of Kalorama 
Partners, LLC, a Washington, 
D.C.-based consulting firm.  
He joined the Board in 2008.
STEPHEN B. DOBBS
Senior Group President at Fluor  
Corporation, a Fortune 500 company 
that offers engineering, procurement, 
construction, maintenance, and project management services.  He joined the Board in 2010.
ROBERT J. BERNHARD
Vice President for Research and 
a Professor of Engineering at 
the University of Notre Dame. 
He joined the Board in 2008.
ALExIS m. HERmAN
Chairman and CEO of New 
Ventures, LLC, a corporate 
consulting company. She joined 
the Board in 2001 and currently serves as Lead Director.
WILLIAm I. mILLER
President of the New York-based 
Wallace Foundation focused on 
K-12 education and the arts.  
He joined the Board in 1989.
CARL W ARE
Retired Coca-Cola executive and President and COO, Ware 
Investment Properties LLC.  
He joined the Board in 2004.
N. THOmAS LINEBARGER
Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, Cummins Inc. He joined 
the Board in 2009.GOVERNANCE
118  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Super Storm Sandy, which devastated 
much of the East Coast of the United  States in the fall of 2012, was merely 
the latest reminder of what can happen 
to businesses that fail to manage risk effectively (see Cummins’ response to Sandy on page 126).
Cummins has broadened its risk 
management efforts in recent years, focusing not just on how to keep  particular locations operating in the  midst of a crisis, but how to keep global 
processes functioning that are critical 
to meeting customer needs in particular regions of the world. 
The Risk Management team continues 
to prepare a dashboard for the Cummins Board of Directors and senior leaders outlining the biggest risks facing the 
Company. The dashboard is constantly 
updated to reflect changes in and outside Cummins, and the Company frequently assigns teams of employees to develop steps to mitigate specific risks using Six 
Sigma research and evaluation tools.
Underscoring its strategic significance  
to the Company, the Risk Management function was shifted in 2012 to Corporate Strategy. The function also underwent  an audit in late 2012 and early 2013, to 
identify both strengths and weaknesses.
The development of Business Continuity 
Plans remains an important responsibility  of the Risk Management team. 
BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLANS 
Business Continuity Plans at Cummins 
detail step-by-step what has to be done to keep a location operating. The Risk Management team has overseen the 
completion of more than 160 plans over 
the past few years and has set a goal of completing a plan for every Cummins 
location, including all wholly owned and 
joint-venture Distribution Business Unit sites, by the end of 2014.
To accomplish this goal, plans for more  
than 400 locations will be necessary. 
The team is working to train a person at each site to complete a plan, significantly reducing the amount of travel necessary.  
Risk Management leaders believe this 
new approach is both more sustainable 
and more effective, embedding business managing risks,  
keeping employees secure
Cummins strongly believes that a robust Risk Management 
program is critical to the sustainability of any company.GOVERNANCE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  119continuity planning into the culture of  
every site by involving local employees earlier in the process.
To help bring additional attention to the 
plans, employees from Cummins Power Generation’s headquarters in Fridley, Minn. made a presentation before the Board of 
Directors in 2013 on how sites can use 
business continuity planning to improve their operations.
GLOBAL SECURITY TAkES ON 
BIGGER ROLE
The Global Security function is playing  
an increasingly important role in Cummins’ overall sustainability, striving to embed  the concept of “security first” throughout  
the Company.
Focusing on the protection of the  
Cummins’ employees as well as its  physical and information assets, the  Global Security team has established a 
number of initiatives to carry out its mission.
The Travel Smart Travel Safe program 
is designed to support employees and partners during business travel and at the 
workplace. The program works through 
vendors and advisors to assess regional  risk in all locations where Cummins  does business. 
Employees who travel can subscribe 
to daily emails with the latest security 
information, travel tips, and can also  access an internal website with  pertinent information. The program also provides employees with an emergency hotline should they encounter issues while travelling.
Ensuring sustainable growth  
requires Cummins to protect sensitive Company information. The Information Asset Protection Program develops, 
implements, and manages Cummins 
information security across the enterprise. Although risk can never be fully eliminated, the program ensures employees follow the  right processes for the right level of security. 
Implemented in 2012, the Crisis Action 
Management Program (CAMP) leverages local, regional and corporate response teams to quickly assess incidents that 
affect the Company, employees and the 
communities in which Cummins operates.
CAMP relies on persistent intelligence 
monitoring and rapid communication in order to achieve an immediate and 
measured response. CAMP enables 
Cummins to move quickly and efficiently when an emergency affecting the  Company, or the public, cannot be 
managed through normal channels. 
Through this work, Cummins Global 
Security is focused on the Company’s  long-term success by implementing programs that promote a secure 
environment and a sustainable future. GOVERNANCE
120  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The Company maintains an office in 
Washington, D.C., but with half or  
more of Cummins’ sales in recent years coming from outside the United States,  the Company also has government  relations employees in China and India.
These employees work to ensure that 
Cummins’ voice is heard. For example, Cummins works extensively to promote and protect emissions standards globally 
from delay or modification and supports 
government efforts to establish greenhouse gas and fuel consumptions standards for commercial vehicles.
Cummins belongs to a number of trade 
organizations to further its business 
interests. These organizations help the Company by leveraging Cummins’ resources with other companies on  
issues where we share similar positions. 
While Cummins might not agree with the 
positions these associations take on every issue, the Company believes participating in these groups helps ensure government 
officials know where Cummins stands on 
matters critical to the Company.POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Cummins bans contributions using 
corporate funds to candidates, political parties and independent expenditure campaigns. This ban includes contributions to 501 (c) (4) and 527 tax-exempt  
groups in the United States engaged  
in political activity.
On ballot measures deemed important 
to the Company’s interests, Cummins 
is committed to publicly disclosing any 
payments made directly to influence  the outcome, including recipient names  and amounts.
In the United States, political contributions 
are made by the Cummins Inc. Political 
Action Committee (CIPAC), but the committee is funded solely by voluntary employee contributions. CIPAC makes 
contributions to state and federal 
candidates on a bipartisan basis  after review and approval by CIPAC’s Executive Committee and according  to state and federal law.
For a complete list of the political action 
committee’s contributions to candidates,  go to www.fec.gov.Ensuring Cummins’ voice is heard
Cummins has government relations employees around the 
world working on issues that might have a significant impact 
on the Company, such as energy policy, environmental 
legislation, taxes, trade and transportation to name just a few.GOVERNANCE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  121
GOVERNANCECIPAC is governed by corporate  
policies and bylaws that state:
 »All CIPAC contributions are  
strictly voluntary.
 »The Company will not reimburse 
employees directly or indirectly for political contributions.
 »Employees will not be pressured  to contribute to CIPAC or make any  other personal political contribution.
 »A decision not to contribute to  CIPAC shall not disadvantage  
an employee’s career in any way.
Contributions to political candidates  
and political organizations are based  on the following criteria:
 »Public integrity of the candidate.
 »Representation of a Cummins facility  
or employees.
 »Support for issues of importance  
to Cummins.
 »Timely and effective constituent service.
 »Political leadership or organization.
 »Support for the Company’s values.
All of CIPAC’s political activities are disclosed to the Cummins Board of Directors in an annual political contribution report.LOBBYING
The following is a list of U.S. trade 
organizations to which Cummins paid dues 
in excess of $50,000 during calendar year 
2012 and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which fell below the $50,000 threshold.
Listed with each entity is Cummins’ 
estimation of the portion of these dues  
used by each organization for lobbying  or other political expenditures.
The American Trucking Association
The Business Roundtable
The Diesel Technology forum
  $127
The Engine manufacturers Association
The National Association of manufacturers
U.S. Chamber of Commerce
$12,528
$13,750$15,759$24,261
$8,682U.S. Sen. Al Franken tours the 
Cummins Power Generation 
Plant in Fridley, Minn., in 
May 2013. He is joined by 
Assistant Secretary of Defense 
Sharon Burke, right, and 
Cummins Power Generation 
President Tony Satterthwaite, left. Franken, who represents 
Minnesota in the U.S. Senate, 
and Burke, the Defense 
Department’s top energy 
official, were at the plant to 
learn how power generators 
produced by Cummins  have slashed the military’s 
power usage.fINANCIAL
122  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Revenues were $17.3 billion compared  
to $18 billion in 2011. Despite the drop, it was the second best revenue year 
in Company history. Revenue for 2012 
represented a 31 percent increase over 2010 and a 61 percent increase over 2009.
The Company increased its dividend by 
25 percent in the third quarter of 2012 and 
Fitch Rating Services raised its Long-term 
Issuer Default Rating and long-term debt ratings for Cummins from A- to A despite 
the challenging economy.“After a strong start to the year, demand 
declined across most geographies  
and end markets in the second half of  
2012 as the global economy slowed,”  said Tom Linebarger, Cummins  
Chairman and CEO. 
“I am pleased that we were able to deliver 
improved gross margins in the fourth quarter and record gross margins for the 
full year despite the weakness in demand,” 
Linebarger said. “The work we have undertaken to reduce costs and lower 
inventory should benefit the Company  
when the global economy improves, however, there is uncertainty surrounding 
the timing and pace of improvement in  
end markets in 2013.”
Fourth quarter revenue of $4.3 billion in 
2012 was a 13 percent decrease from the same quarter in 2011, reflecting weakness 
in most major markets and geographies. 
The decrease year-over-year was driven  by weaker demand in truck, construction, 
and oil and gas markets in North America. 
The Company also experienced lower demand in international markets for power  
generation equipment and construction, 
truck and mining engines.
fINANCIALGlobal economic slowdown  
slows Cummins
After a record start, revenues slowed considerably  
for Cummins in the second half of 2012 amid a global 
economic slowdown.fINANCIAL
fINANCIAL PERfORmANCE AT A GLANCE
Here’s a summary of Cummins’ performance since 2008. 
Year Sales Net income  
  attributable to Cummins
2008 $14.3 billion $755 million
2009 $10.8 billion $428 million
2010 $13.2 billion $1.04 billion
2011 $18 billion $1.85 billion
2012 $17.3 billion $1.65 billionfINANCIAL
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  123For the entire year, revenues in North 
America were up 9 percent but were offset 
by international sales which dropped by 
about 15 percent, with the most significant declines in Brazil, China and Europe.
EBIT (Earnings Before Interest and Taxes) 
for the year, excluding special items,  was $2.35 billion or 13.6 percent of sales, 
compared to $2.6 billion or 14.2 percent  
of sales in 2011.
Net income attributable to Cummins for the 
full year was $1.65 billion ($8.67 per diluted 
share), down from $1.85 billion ($9.55 per 
diluted share) in 2011. Excluding the costs 
of restructuring actions ($0.18 per diluted share), one-time tax benefits ($0.29 per diluted share) and the gain on the sale  
of the Company’s exhaust business  
($0.02 per diluted share), the Company reported full year net income of  
$1.62 billion ($8.54 per diluted share).
Cummins sold its exhaust operations in 
Stoughton, Arcadia, Black River Falls and  Viroqua in Wisconsin and Scoresby in Australia in 2011 to a private equity firm.
The Company took a number of  
actions during 2012 to lower expenses in response to the difficult economic 
conditions, including reducing the size  
of its workforce by about 1,300 people – about equally split between exempt and 
non-exempt employees.
The Company, however, invested a record 
$728 million in research and development, 
up 16 percent from 2011. In addition, 
Cummins and its joint ventures invested 
over $1 billion in capital expenditure 
projects, much of it related to the development of new products.
Cummins announced in May 2012  
it had signed an agreement to acquire  
the assets associated with the emissions control products of Hilite International. 
Hilite’s selective catalytic reduction  
doser technology will become part  of Cummins Emission Solutions.Chairman and CEO Tom 
Linebarger and Managing 
Director for Cummins  
India Anant Talaulicar 
inaugurate the fifth facility  
at the Megasite in India –  
the Phaltan MidRange Upfit 
Center – in March 2013.
 »Cummins builds 
2-millionth engine  for Ram pickup  
trucks (page 124).
 »Team puts customers 
first in responding to Super Storm Sandy 
(page 126).Financial
POINTS Of 
INNOVATION  fINANCIAL
124  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Cummins has been building diesel engines 
for Ram Trucks since the first engine for Ram rolled off the line at the Rocky Mount 
Engine Plant in Rocky Mount, N.C., in 1988. 
Over the past 25 years, the Company has produced more than 2 million engines for 
Chrysler Group LLC.
“This milestone build is a significant 
achievement for Cummins and our 
employees, and is an accomplishment of which we are immensely proud,” said 
Wayne Ripberger, General Manager – 
Pickup and Light Commercial Vehicle Operations. He was speaking after the 
2-millionth engine was built for Ram  
pickups in December 2012 at the  Columbus (Ind.) MidRange Engine Plant.“At Cummins, we take great pride in  each and every engine we build – whether it’s the first or the 2-millionth,” he said.
In its own news release marking the engine 
milestone, Chrysler noted the partnership has benefited both companies.
“The Ram Truck-Cummins diesel 
partnership is one of the industry’s most 
enduring and certainly fitting of such a 
tribute,” said Fred Diaz, President and CEO – Ram Truck Brand and Chrysler de 
Mexico. “Both companies have benefited 
greatly, but Ram diesel customers are the real beneficiaries. Every day they experience 
the toughness and capability a Cummins-
powered Ram can deliver.”
What’s so special about Cummins- 
powered Ram Trucks? It’s the combination 
of power, durability and innovation that  
has led to an extremely loyal following  of pickup truck owners.
Cummins employees say they are frequently 
stopped by strangers who upon learning where they work tell them: “I just love the 
Cummins engine in my Ram Truck.”
The Cummins 6.7L Turbo Diesel powers 
the Ram 2500 and 3500 heavy-duty pickup 
trucks and is also available in the Ram 
3500, 4500 and 5500 chassis cabs.Ram-Cummins partnership  
celebrates major milestones
Enduring relationships pass the test of time whether it’s 
a marriage, a friendship or a business relationship. That’s 
certainly true of the Ram Truck-Cummins diesel partnership.
To commemorate the 
occasion, the 2-millionth 
engine sported a special 
edition red breather cover  
and valve cover.
fINANCIAL
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  125The 2013 Cummins-powered Ram  
HD trucks feature the same kind of 
innovation that customers have come  
to expect, including:
 »A 10 percent fuel economy improvement.
 »Best-in-class 850 lb-ft of torque. 
 »Best-in-class 15,000 mile  
oil change interval. 
 »Improved towing thanks to  a “Smart” exhaust break. 
 »B20 biofuel capability.
The 25th anniversary officially comes  
later in 2013 when Cummins begins 
building engines for the model year  
2014 Ram Trucks.
“We’ve come a long way since 1988,”  
said Ram HD Brand Manager Mike 
Cockell, who attended the 2-millionth engine celebration. “We’ve made great 
improvements to the entire package, 
but there is one thing that has remained constant: proven Cummins power.“We’re proud of our heritage with  Cummins, and we’re also excited about  
the 2013 Cummins Turbo Diesel-powered 
Ram trucks,” he added. “We hope to be back here in a couple years celebrating  
the 2.5-millionth engine.”
To honor the Company’s 
partnership with Chrysler, 
Cummins employees (left 
to right) Clint Garrett, Justin 
Streeval, David Crawhorn  
and Thomas Sallee were part 
of the team that restored the 
first Cummins powered Ram development truck. The truck 
is a 1985 Dodge Ram D350 
and was the first truck built to 
test the viability of a Cummins 
Turbo Diesel in a Ram chassis.  
Prior to the restoration,  the truck was used to move parts around Cummins  
facilities in Columbus, Ind. “This milestone build is a 
significant achievement 
for Cummins and our 
employees, and is an 
accomplishment of  
which we are immensely  
proud. At Cummins,  
we take great pride in  
each and every engine  
we build – whether it’s  
the first or the 2-millionth.”
WAYNE RIPBERGER 
GENERAL MANAGER –  
PICKUP AND LIGHT COMMERCIAL 
VEHICLE OPERATIONSfINANCIAL
126  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013Three hours later, he was back working  
the phone again, trying to find generators for desperate customers in New York  
and New Jersey left powerless by the 
mammoth storm.
“You just gotta try to help everyone you 
can,” said Philips, General Manager – 
Rental Power for the New York district.  
He knew first-hand how his customers  felt. The power was out at his home and  his office was underwater at Cummins Power Systems in Newark, N.J.Philips wasn’t the only Cummins employee who lost sleep after Sandy hit in October 2012, packing 80 mph winds and pushing 
a 13-foot surge of sea water toward New 
York City that flooded subway tunnels and the underground electrical systems that power Wall Street. An estimated 6 million 
people in the region lost power.Putting customers first  
in wake of Sandy
At the height of Super Storm Sandy, Cummins Power 
Systems’ Steve Philips went 21 hours without sleep,  
his phone ringing 40 or 50 times per hour until he finally 
nodded off at his New Jersey home, his computer and  
cell phone in his lap.
Steve Philips spent long hours 
helping Cummins customers 
from his New Jersey home  
after Super Storm Sandy  
flooded his office.
Scott Patrohay, President – 
Cummins Power Systems, 
LLC, points to the water  
line on a Cummins truck caught in the flood waters 
left by Super Storm Sandy 
at the company’s facilities  
in Newark, N.J.
fINANCIAL
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  127Cummins technicians slept on cots at 
customer locations next to the generators they were monitoring on a 24-hour basis. 
Warehouse and service personnel worked 
long hours to clear debris to get their operations up and running as quickly  as possible after the storm.
Before the worst was over, nearly  
400 pieces of Cummins Power Generation equipment were operating in the region, collectively deploying nearly 30 miles of cable and generating more than  
200 megawatts of power.
“So many of our employees were thinking 
of our customers first at a time when many of them had significant concerns in their 
own lives,” said Scott Patrohay, President 
– Cummins Power Systems, LLC, based in Bristol, Penn. “I couldn’t be prouder of them or more grateful for their tremendous effort.” Cummins distributors quickly mobilized  their fleets of rental generators from across North America to help out, joining hundreds of other Cummins powered generators 
owned and operated by many of the 
country’s largest rental companies.
While the rental power played a vital role in 
the storm response, Cummins employees 
contributed in a variety of other ways.
For example, technicians worked on the 
engines that powered the three New York City Transit Authority Pump Trains, each 
capable of pumping out thousands of 
gallons of water per minute from flooded 
subway tunnels.
One of the trains was out of service the 
Friday before the storm. Realizing every 
pump train would be needed as the storm 
approached, the transit authority called Cummins Power Systems’ Bronx Engine Service Support Team for help. 
The team was able to get the engine  
back in service and for the next 10 days  
the pump trains would play a key role in getting the subway system up and running.
“It was much, much needed,” Vince 
Carderi, superintendent of the transit 
authority’s rail yard, said of the repair to  the broken pump train. “I’m very grateful they responded so quickly to our last-minute request for help.”
Cummins Power Systems technician Joe Magnone 
works on one of the three New York City Transit Authority 
Pump Trains that played a critical role in reopening 
flooded subway tunnels during Super Storm Sandy.fINANCIAL
128  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013The Company uses a broad definition of 
supply chain to include everything from 
the moment a customer orders a product 
through production, delivery and beyond. Today, the supply chain is one of Cummins’ five key growth accelerators, built around 
the Company’s commitment to customer 
service while also driving efficiency and  cost reduction to improve profitability. Cummins’ five-year supply chain transformation started in late 2010 and 
significant progress was achieved in 2012. 
As part of the journey, the Company’s supply chain organization committed  to reducing costs by 1 percent of sales.  
The organization identified $85 million  
in project cost savings in 2012 and  $64 million was realized as a direct  
bottom-line value to Cummins. 
The majority of the projects focused on 
transportation and logistics, where the 
Company was able to better leverage  
its spending on freight and drive  improved efficiency and utilization. 
“Our vision for supply chain transformation 
encompasses our Company-wide commitment to reduce our environmental 
impact, leverage a diverse supply base,  
and develop our talent globally,” said Lisa Yoder, Vice President – Global Supply  
Chain and Manufacturing. 
“Integrated, yet focused, strategies  
have been developed across purchasing, 
manufacturing, warehousing, planning,  
and transportation,” she added. 
One example of a cost savings was the 
parcel provider project, implemented in 
January 2012. With a focus on Cummins’ express transportation costs, the Company 
was able to reduce its current expenses  
by $2.9 million. Improved rates were Committed to a global supply chain 
Cummins’ commitment to sustainable growth  
relies on a fully integrated global supply chain. 
Cummins wants to develop a 
highly integrated network of 
lean, green and flexible plants in the Company’s supply chain. 
This employee at Cummins 
Emission Solutions in Mineral 
Point, Wis., is working on an aftertreatment system.
fINANCIAL
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012–2013  129realized by aggregating and consolidating 
combined volumes. Further savings were 
achieved as Cummins reviewed the types of services provided and reduced its 
residential surcharges.
The Company also worked with a customer 
to reclaim $1.1 million in import duties.  
The product was imported by Cummins  
and subsequently exported by the customer. By working with the customer, 
Cummins was able to provide the necessary 
documentation to fulfill the requirements that enabled the duty to be reclaimed. 
As Cummins continues to execute its 
supply chain transformation, the Company will expand its focus from manufacturing 
sites to include all elements of sustainability 
– suppliers, customers and the communities where Cummins does business and its employees live and work.
Cummins is working hard to ensure 
its supply chains not only provide the Company with the supplies needed to  meet the demands of its growing  
customer base, but also ways to shrink  
its environmental footprint. Part of Cummins’ long-term vision is to move 
from an inflexible and disconnected global 
network to a highly integrated network  array of lean, green and flexible plants. 
The future of Cummins’ supply  
chain includes a focus on carbon- neutral plants with industry-leading 
environmental best practices.
“Building sustainable supply chains means 
identifying ways to reduce the amount of 
packaging on products to minimize waste, 
combining shipments so that delivery trucks don’t travel half empty and using shipping 
materials that can be reused or recycled 
rather than discarded,” Yoder said.
The Company envisions market-driven 
supply chains to establish profitable  
growth. Executing on this vision will strengthen the Company’s commitment  
to not only exceeding customer 
expectations but also fulfilling Cummins’ mission that “everything we do leads to  
a cleaner, healthier, safer environment.” 
CUmmINS GROWTH ACCELERATORS
Cummins has established five growth accelerators  
for sustained, profitable growth. They are:
 1 Adopting a growth mindset.
 2 Advancing from a multi-national to a global company.
 3 Achieving supply chain excellence.
 4 Delivering customer support excellence.
 5 Investing in leadership development  
  and high performing teams.“Our vision for supply  
chain transformation 
encompasses our 
Company-wide commitment 
to reduce our environmental  
impact, leverage a diverse 
supply base, and develop 
our talent globally.”
LISA YODER 
VICE PRESIDENT –  
GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN  
AND MANUFACTURINGPrinted on 100% 
post-consumer recycled paper
RESOURCE USAGE
COVER & INTERIOR  Printed on FSC®-certified  
paper manufactured with electricity that is made  
with 100 percent Certified Renewable Energy,  
from non-polluting wind power projects.  
The 100 percent post-consumer waste fiber  used to make this paper is process-chlorine  free and is Green-Seal certified.PRODUCTION NOTES 
Design and writing: Cummins Corporate Communications 
Printing: The Merrick Printing Company CONTACTS
marya Rose 
Vice President – Chief Administrative Officer 
One American Square, Suite 1800 
Indianapolis, IN 46282
mark Levett 
Vice President – Corporate Responsibility 
Chief Executive Officer – The Cummins Foundation 500 Jackson Street 
Columbus, IN 47201  
Blair Claflin (Editor) 
Director – Sustainability Communications 
One American Square, Suite 1800 
Indianapolis, IN 46282 (317) 610-2542
CUmmINS’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING DOESN’T END WITH THIS DOCUmENT . 
Go to our website – www.cummins.com/sustainability – for regular updates on how we’re meeting  
the needs of all of our stakeholders and practicing good corporate citizenship.Cummins Inc.
Box 3005
Columbus, Indiana 47202-3005
U.S.A.
cummins.com
©2013 Cummins Inc.
Printed in U.S.A. 05/13 
Bulletin Number 4986114