Profile & Governance | 1
Sustainability Report
A Legacy of Dependability and Responsibility
July 20092 | Profile & Governance
Profile & Governance | 3
2009 marks the 90th anniversary of 
Cummins Inc. Over the last nine decades, 
the Company has grown into a global 
leader in the production of diesel and 
natural gas engines, power generation 
systems and related components. Our 
commitment to customers, employees 
and communities is rooted in our 
heritage and has made us Cummins. 
Dependable. Since 1919.
4 | Sustainability Report 2008
I know what 
my company 
stands for.
I am ready to carry out its 
mission of returning value to 
our customers, shareholders 
and communities — and to 
be a good steward of the 
environment along the way.
 I bring my unique 
perspective to 
work every day, 
as do thousands 
of my colleagues 
around the world.
Together we create  
a rich diversity of 
cultures and views.Profile & Governance | 5
I understand my 
company’s vision includes 
all the communities we 
serve around the globe, 
not just my own.
And I believe 
my success will 
contribute to the 
success of everyone 
we serve, everywhere.
I am Cummins.
You can depend 
on me. 6 | Sustainability Report 2008About This Report
The information in this report is presented in the spirit 
of the guidelines set by the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI). The aim of the GRI is to develop a consistent way 
for companies around the world to voluntarily report on 
the economic, environmental and social components 
of their business. Started in 1997 by the Coalition for 
Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES), the 
GRI became independent in 2002 and today works in collaboration with the United Nations Environment 
Program (UNEP) and the UN Secretary-General’s 
Global Compact. We are proud of the positive impact 
Cummins products and the people who manufacture 
them have on our society. We look forward to the 
opportunity to make a difference, not just today, but for 
future generations as well.
Contacts
Jean Blackwell
Executive Vice President, Corporate Responsibility
Chief Executive Officer of The Cummins Foundation
One American Square, Suite 1800
Indianapolis, IN 46282
Marya M. Rose
Vice President
General Counsel
One American Square, Suite 1800
Indianapolis, IN 46282Mark D. Land
Executive Director, Corporate Communications
One American Square, Suite 1800
Indianapolis, IN 46282
Telephone: 317-610-2456
Mark.D.Land@cummins.comTable of Contents
Letter from the Chairman  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8
Profile & Governance
Who We Are  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
Vision and Strategy   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Commitment to Stakeholders .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 18
Economic Performance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
Corporate Governance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
Managing Risks .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Environment & Safety
Cummins and Climate Change  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  39
Performance Indicators: Products  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  45
Performance Indicators: Facilities  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  56
Providing a Safe Working Environment  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  76
Diversity & Corporate Responsibility
Treating Others with Dignity and Respect  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  82
Corporate Responsibility   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
The Cummins Foundation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  958 | Profile & Governance
Letter from  
the Chairman 
The values that define 
Cummins are designed to 
endure and have never been 
more important to us than in 
today’s challenging climate.The global economic situation has changed significantly 
since we published our Sustainability Report last year. 
At Cummins, we began to feel the effects of the reces -
sion in most of our markets late in 2008. Our current 
business climate will continue into next year, making 
2009 and 2010 very challenging years. 
Cummins has devoted significant time and energy to 
ensuring that our company remains strong during the 
recession and emerges well-positioned to resume our 
profitable growth once the recovery begins.
At the same time, a critical determinant of Cummins’ 
success over the long term is our ability to create an 
organization that is focused on delivering on our com -
mitments to the full range of stakeholders we serve. 
The values that define Cummins are designed to endure 
and have never been more important to us than in 
today’s economic climate.
Acting with integrity. Doing our part to improve the 
communities where we live and work. Embracing diver -
sity. Operating with a global vision. Striving to always 
exceed the expectations of our customers. Being first 
to market with innovative products and services.
These statements represent Cummins’ core values 
and I am proud to say that our more than 35,000 
employees worldwide continue to demonstrate their 
commitment to bringing these words to life every day. 
Cummins’ sixth annual Sustainability Report highlights 
the progress we have made in the past year around 
several of these values, particularly corporate responsi -
bility and our commitment to the environment.
Our approach to corporate responsibility is grounded in 
a stakeholder model articulated nearly 40 years ago by 
then-Chairman J. Irwin Miller, who believed that busi -
nesses have a responsibility to help to create healthy 
communities. The tools and actions that define our work 
to remain a responsible company may have changed 
over the years, but the underlying principles have not. Profile & Governance | 9Our commitment to corporate responsibility also contains 
an element of self-interest. Cummins operates under 
the philosophy that corporate responsibility contributes 
directly to the long-term financial health of our company.
Building successful, vibrant communities leads to 
stronger markets for our products. Being seen as 
a company that cares about all its stakeholders, 
in addition to generating strong financial return for 
shareholders, is essential to our efforts to attract the 
most talented workers from around the world. Creating 
a culture that encourages employees to become active 
in their communities is central to our goal of creating a 
great place to work, which is the best way we know to 
retain those talented workers.
In the past year, Cummins has strengthened its 
commitment to corporate responsibility and we are 
in the midst of some exciting changes that will make 
our efforts in this area more global, more focused and 
more effective. A full discussion of our work, including 
details of the goals and vision of our recently created 
Corporate Responsibility organization, can be found 
starting on page 88 of this report.
Ensuring that everything we do leads to a cleaner, 
healthier and safer environment has been part of the 
Cummins Mission statement for many years. In prac -
tice, that means we are unwavering in our commitment 
to producing the cleanest diesel engines in the world 
and in reducing the Company’s environmental footprint.
Since our last Sustainability Report, Cummins has 
raised the stakes on both fronts. We have invested 
significantly in new products and technologies designed 
to further lower exhaust emissions from our products 
and are in the final stages of preparing for the most 
extensive new product launch in our history. At the 
same time, we have increased our commitment to 
addressing the global impact of climate change.Early this year, we introduced our first set of 10 climate 
change principles. These principles address ways that 
Cummins plans to become a greater part of the solution 
and also articulates the Company’s positions on key public 
policy issues surrounding climate change. They are:
Company directed principles
n Improve product efficiency
n Grow and develop new businesses
n Collaborate with suppliers and customers
n Make work spaces green spaces
n Harness the energy of employees
n Support community efforts
Public policy principles
n Develop responsible regulations
n Promote technology development
n Accelerate progress through incentives
n Create a balanced global approach
This work, which seeks to leverage the interest and 
expertise of our employees around the world, is the 
next step in an ongoing effort that has seen Cummins 
decrease waste, improve energy efficiency and lower its 
greenhouse gas emissions significantly in recent years. 
A detailed description of our key environmental initia -
tives can be found starting on page 39 of this report.
At Cummins, we have long worked under the premise 
that our strength as a company is dependent on the 
health of the communities in which we operate and 
where our products are sold. From that perspective, 
the notion of sustainability is not a luxury, but rather a 
critical component to our long-term success. 
I hope you will read our current Sustainability Report and 
learn more about our work to remain a responsible corporate 
citizen that is responsive to the needs of all our stakeholders.
 
Tim Solso  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
Cummins Inc.
10 | Profile & GovernanceCummins Inc. was made possible by the two men who 
dominated its early years—Clessie Cummins, who 
wanted to build engines, and W.G. Irwin, whose family 
fortune backed the venture. 
The Irwin family settled near Columbus, Indiana, about 
1821, with its members soon playing key roles in the 
religious, political, business and cultural affairs of their 
community. Irwin family enterprises tended to blend the 
search for profits with a sense of community mission 
and a desire to help local entrepreneurs. 
Clessie Cummins, a local man with a lifelong fascina -
tion for machines, served as W.G. Irwin’s driver and 
mechanic. With W.G.’s permission, Clessie opened 
an auto repair shop in a vacant forge building. That 
venture, started in 1913, developed into a machine 
shop that employed 50 people and performed a variety 
of Army and Navy ordnance jobs during W.W. I. 
The Cummins Engine Company was born 14 weeks after 
the end of W.W. I, when postwar need and opportunity 
came together with Clessie’s willingness to devote his 
considerable mechanical and promotional talents to diesel 
technology. Just as important was the willingness of W.G. 
Irwin to finance the enterprise with family resources. 
In 1947 J. Irwin Miller was elected president of 
Cummins Engine Company. Miller, a grand-nephew of 
W.G. Irwin who was educated at both Yale and Oxford, 
had been involved in the company’s operations for 
more than a decade. As he took up the reins, Miller 
brought a new sense of strategic planning to the company along with a more assertive philosophy 
of corporate responsibility. As he said in the Cummins 
1972 Annual Report, 
While some still argue that business has no social 
responsibility, we believe that our survival in the very 
long run is as dependent upon responsible citizenship in 
our communities and in the society, as it is on responsi -
ble technological, financial and production performance.
It was under Mr. Miller’s watch that Cummins took on 
the properties that characterize it in the minds of so 
many today: environmental consciousness, integrity, 
diversity, global involvement, and service and improve -
ment to the communities in which we live and work. 
It was also under Mr. Miller that Cummins sought and 
found overseas markets and operations. 
Our commitment to corporate responsibility continues 
to shape our business decisions today. The Company 
has grown to be a global power leader, with more than 
half of its employees and sales from outside the United 
States. Most recently, the Company has been reshaped 
into the “new Cummins”—a company that is less cyclical, 
more diversified, more results-oriented and committed to 
turning a greater share of its sales into profits. But the star 
we continue to steer by mandates that everything we do 
leads to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment. 
As we have since 1919, Cummins has made it our 
obligation to meet the needs of both our customers and 
the communities where we work and live. The ultimate 
goal is always the same: create sustainable wealth and 
well-being for all our stakeholders.Who We AreProfile & Governance | 11All Cummins businesses are united under the Cummins 
name, with the Company’s earliest historical colors, red 
and black.
Our brand is the sum total of all our years in business. 
From the beginning, when the Company’s found -
ers first stood behind the products they sold to the 
ongoing growth of our diversified business, Cummins 
has maintained a reputation for integrity. In terms of a 
brand, that translates into a single vision: dependabil -
ity. We want stakeholders to know they can depend 
on Cummins. And we want employees to be able to 
unify around the Cummins brand to create value and a 
competitive advantage.
Cummins is a family of four interrelated, yet diversified 
business segments that create or enhance value as a 
result of those relationships and doing business with 
each other. These four business segments are Engine, 
Power Generation, Components and Distribution.Cummins products can be found in nearly every type of 
vehicle, from the heavy-duty diesel-powered trucks that 
travel the world’s highways, to tractors that till the soil, 
large trucks that carry natural resources from the mine 
and ships that travel the world’s waterways. Cummins-
built generators supply both prime and auxiliary power 
around the globe. Filters, turbochargers, fuel systems, 
exhaust aftertreatment and related components help 
engines run cleaner and more efficiently. A compre -
hensive network of distributors provide repair and 
maintenance service for customers worldwide.
Cummins has entered into a number of joint venture 
agreements and alliances with business partners and 
affiliates in various areas of the world to increase market 
penetration, expand product lines, streamline supply 
chain management and develop new technologies. As 
of the end of 2008, Cummins has 55 joint ventures in 
18 countries, 45 of which are unconsolidated.
1919
Cummins’ first diesel was the 1.5 and 3 hp HVID 
used by farmers for powering pumps. Founded by 
Clessie Cummins and W.G. Irwin, the Company is 
located in Columbus, Indiana.12 | Profile & Governance
Values
Integrity:  We strive to do what is right and what we 
say we will do.
Innovation:  We will apply the creative ingenuity neces -
sary to make us better, faster, first.
Deliver Superior Results:  Our goal is to consistently 
exceed expectations.
Corporate Responsibility:  We will serve and improve 
the communities in which we live.
Diversity:  We embrace the diverse perspectives of all 
people and honor both with dignity and respect.
Global Involvement:  We seek a world view and to act 
without boundaries.2,800 major suppliers comply with our Supplier Code of 
Conduct p. 28
Innovative filter has environmental and customer-friendly 
design p. 49
133 percent increase in the dividend since 2006 p. 22  
Employees give financial aid to earthquake and flood 
victims p. 97 
National recognition for Darlington’s (U. K.) activities and 
initiatives designed to increase gender diversity p. 15
Since 2000, non-U.S. sales have grown from 43 
percent to 60 percent p. 23Making people’s lives better by unleashing the power of Cummins.Mission
•  To motivate people to act like owners working together
•  To exceed customers’ expectations by always being 
first to market with the best products
•  To partner with our customers to ensure their success
•  To demand that everything we do leads to a cleaner, 
healthier, safer environment
• To create wealth for all our stakeholders
That simple statement is the framework for Cummins and 
its employees worldwide. The Company takes pride in 
manufacturing high quality products that serve the needs 
of our customers. But the power of our Company is not 
just our products, but the ideas, energy and passion of 
our employees. That passion fuels employee energy and 
commitment, making it possible for Cummins to maintain 
a leadership position in the markets it serves.Cummins also recognizes that with its role as a 
corporate leader is a responsibility to make positive 
contributions in the communities in which employees 
work and live. Accordingly, Cummins’ corporate 
mission and values reflect its desire to return value to its 
customers, employees, shareholders and communities.A record year for Six Sigma in savings and projects launched p. 13
First to meet EPA’s stringent on-highway 2010 emission  
standards p. 46
Customer-focused fuel economy projects save millions of gallons of fuel p. 42
An energy use challenge saves nearly $1 million and 7,000 tons of 
GHGs p. 41
Fifth consecutive year of record sales and profits and No. 10 in the 
Fortune 500 in  earnings per share growth  p. 14 and 22Profile & Governance | 13Strategic Principles
Cummins has five key elements to its business strategy. This strategy has not changed in recent years. What has 
changed is our improved performance and our continued ability to deliver on commitments.
Being a low cost producer
Cummins realizes that to successfully compete in the 
marketplace, it must offer the best products at the 
best prices. To do that, we leverage our innovative 
technology, economies of scale, global presence and 
customer partnerships.
The Six Sigma quality program, launched in 2000, is an 
integral part of that strategy. Cummins belts launched 4,100 
projects in 2008, with closed projects saving $500 million. 
And here is what 10 years of Six Sigma has meant  
for Cummins: 
n  Projects successfully completed: 13,367
n  Total savings: $2.5 billion
n  Green belts trained: 9,320
n  Green belts certified: 1,492
n  Black belts certified: 465
The Company estimates this program generates 
savings of approximately 2 percent of annual revenue 
per year, while infusing quality into every process. 
Cummins also has expanded the program to include 
processes with customers, suppliers, distributors and 
our communities with positive results. 
Cummins pursues cost leadership in other ways: through 
global sourcing, global research and development access, 
sharing development costs with original equipment 
manufacturer (OEM) partners and technical productiv -
ity, including the use of computer design and modeling 
instead of building expensive physical prototypes.
Profitable growth
Despite the recessionary environment that exists today, 
the Company will continue to focus its growth initiatives 
on related businesses where it can use its existing 
investments in products or technology, leading brand 
names or market presence to establish a competitive 
advantage. The focus is on ventures that complement 
its more capital-intensive and cyclical core businesses.Creating shareholder value
Return on capital—specifically return on average net 
assets (ROANA) and return on equity (ROE)—is our 
primary measure of financial performance. Each of 
our business segments uses ROANA targets and the 
Company, as a whole, has an ROE target. Cummins 
has dramatically improved its return on capital in 
recent years; for example, since 1999 (the last peak in 
the heavy-duty truck cycle), ROE has increased from 
10 percent to 20 percent in 2008. ROANA in 2008 
was 28 percent.
Complementary businesses that work together to 
create value
Increasingly, Cummins looks for ways to leverage the 
synergies among its four business segments. These 
synergies capitalize on shared capabilities including tech -
nology, distribution systems, common customers (cross 
selling), joint venture partners for global growth and cost 
reduction through the larger scale of shared services.
Creating the right environment
At Cummins, creating the right environment for 
success means an inclusive, learning environment 
that is reinforced by a performance ethic that attracts, 
develops and retains high-quality talent. We measure 
our success through strategic skill and competency 
mapping, leadership development outcomes and 
participation in tailored individual development and 
training programs.14 | Profile & GovernanceRecognition of Good Works
Governance, Ethics and Sustainability
n  For the fourth consecutive year, Cummins was 
named to the Dow Jones World Sustainability index, 
which recognizes the top 10 percent of the world’s 
largest 2,500 companies in economic, environmental 
and social leadership.
n  Cummins was 
named one of 
the”World’s Most 
Ethical Companies” 
for 2009 by the 
Ethisphere Institute, 
an organization 
“dedicated to the research, creation and sharing of 
best practices in ethics, compliance and corporate 
governance among its membership companies.” In 
all, 99 companies were honored as “most ethical.”n  Cummins received in 2008 an overall global rating 
of 10 – the highest award – for best-in-class 
corporate governance standards. The rating from 
GovernanceMetrics International was based on 
research of nearly 4,200 companies. Cummins was 
one of only 43 companies that achieved this rating.
n  Cummins China was among 48 companies named as a 
top corporate citizen for its corporate responsibility activ -
ities and its substantial contribution to the public good. 
The award was presented by the China Corporate 
Citizen Committee and China Central Television.
n  The company was ranked No. 10 in Fortune 500 EPS 
growth last five years.
n  Cummins was No. 1 in Fortune 500 Industry Group 
Total Shareholder Return last 10 years.
n  Cummins has been notified that it meets the 
FTSE4Good Human and Labor rights standards in full.
1926The 104 Power Shovel from Northwest Engineering 
was one of the very earliest tracked earth movers avail -
able with diesel power as an alternative to steam. With 
a 12.5 hp 4-cylinder Model F, the shovel was the first 
land-based mobile equipment powered by Cummins.
Profile & Governance | 15Products
n  Cummins received the leadership in Lifting Equipment 
and Aerial Platforms (LLEAP) Gold Award for Design 
Leadership for Tier 4 QSB6.7 for both the engine and 
particulate filter.
n  Cummins was recognized as “best in class” for 
Enterprise Quality Management by Aberdeen Group, 
a research and market intelligence organization. The 
Company was cited for top performance in opera -
tional metrics and reducing the cost of quality.
n  The Power Generation unit of Cummins India Limited 
won the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) National 
Award for Excellence in Energy Management in the 
category of “Innovative Energy Saving Product / 
Service” for the third successive year. Cummins received 
the award for its Power Quality and Adequacy Analysis 
service, which checks source and load compatibility. n  Cummins received the PACE Award for significant 
product innovation for the 6.7L Turbo Diesel Engine 
from Automotive News.
n  In December, Cummins Power Generation was 
named the recipient of the 2008 Frost & Sullivan 
North American Generator Set Product Quality 
Leadership of the Year Award. 
n  Cummins Generator Technologies India Ltd., 
of Ranjangaon, Pune, received the Greentech 
Environmental Excellence Award in recognition of 
its commitment to environmental management. 
CGT was cited for the design of the new plant at 
Ranjangaon, which combined outstanding design 
with environmental management principles.Social Issues, Diversity and People
n  Cummins was ranked 42nd in the 2009 DiversityInc 
Top 50 Companies for Diversity. 
n  Cummins Power Generation in Fridley, Minn., was 
named Minnesota’s Outstanding Philanthropic 
Organization in 2008 by the Association of 
Fundraising Professionals (AFP).
n  The Company earned a 100 percent rating for 
the fourth consecutive year from the largest U.S. 
advocacy group for gay, lesbian, bisexual and 
transgender employees.
n  Cummins South Pacific was named 2008 Employer 
of Choice for Women, one of only 99 organizations 
in Australia to receive the award from the Australian 
Government’s Equal Opportunity for Women in the 
Workplace Agency. It was the second consecutive 
year the unit has won the award. 
n  Cummins was selected as one of the “100 Best Places 
to Work in IT” by IDG Computerworld. This is the second 
consecutive year the Company has made the list. 
n  Cummins was awarded the 2008 Circle of Excellence 
Award by the Indiana Minority Supplier Development 
Council for its commitment to supplier diversity. 
n  Cummins received the “Amigo Estrella Award” from 
the National Society of Hispanic MBAs Indianapolis 
chapter in 2008 for a second consecutive year.
n  Cummins Darlington (U.K.) Engine Plant won the 
Institution of Mechanical Engineers/ U.K. Resource 
Centre for Women in Science, Engineering and 
Technology Award for Diversity and Inclusion in June 
2008 for superior diversity programs and policies.
SALES
$3.5
 billion
SALES
$2.2
 billionEBIT Margin
10.7 %
EBIT Margin
11.4 %Mid-Range Engines
Diesel engines for on-highway applications from 120 – 425 horsepower. 
Natural gas- and LPG-fueled version from our Cummins Westport joint 
venture. Mid-range engines for off-highway of 31-365 horsepower
Heavy-Duty Engines
Diesel engines for on-highway applications from 280 – 600 horsepower 
and off-highway applications from 290 – 630 horsepower
Commercial Power Systems
Generator sets, control systems and power electronics for a wide 
range of power requirements primarily powered by diesel and natural 
gas engines. Turn-key systems, combined heat and power installa -
tions, rental power, and plant operation and maintenance services
Consumer Systems
High performance diesel, LPG, natural gas and gasoline fueled 
generator sets with associated control systems from 2 to 99 KW  
for use as auxiliary power in a range of consumer, mobile, and 
specialty equipmentSALES
$8.8
 billion
EBIT Margin
6.1%
SALES
$3.2
 billion
EBIT Margin
5.4 %Operating SegmentsEngines
Power  
Generation
Filtration
Air, fuel, hydraulic, coolant and lube filtration, crankcase ventilation, 
chemical and exhaust system technology products for all engine 
powered systems
Aftertreatment
Catalytic exhaust systems and related products, including packaging 
of catalytic exhaust systems, engineered aftertreatment components, 
and system integration services for engine manufacturers
Engines and Power Generation
Wholesale and retail distribution of Cummins engines, generator sets 
and related components. Application Engineering and assembly of 
Cummins products into packages per customer needs for: Marine 
and RV applications, Small original equipment manufacturers, and 
standby and prime Power Generation systems
Geographic Breadth:
The segment consists of 18 company-owned and 18 joint venture 
distributors in 300 locations in more than 70 countries and territoriesComponents
Distribution
Note:  Sales figures exclude intercompany salesProfile & Governance | 17
High-Horsepower Engines
Diesel and natural gas engines from  
380 – 3,500 horsepower
Aftermarket Support
New and reconditioned parts distribution and service 
support for customer, distributors, and dealers worldwide Customers and Markets
n  Light-duty automotive, RV , medium-duty truck, 
specialty vehicle, bus, heavy-duty truck, agriculture, 
construction, mining, marine, rail, defense, logging, 
power generation, oil and gas markets 
n  Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) who install 
Cummins engines in their vehicles and equipment
n  Global dealer and distributor network
Alternators
Newage Stamford, AVK, and Markon synchronous  
AC alternators from 0.6 to 30,000 kVA. Variable  
speed alternators, converters and control systems
Engines
Cummins diesel engines engineered for use in  
generator sets Customers and Markets
n  Customers needing standby power, distributed power 
or auxiliary power
n  Public and investor-owned utilities, telecommunication 
providers, manufacturing and industrial facilities, mining 
and petrochemical sites, healthcare, retail and financial 
facilities, water treatment plants, and residential homes
n  RV, specialty vehicle, and marine pleasure craft OEMs
n  Generator set assemblers
Turbochargers
Holset turbochargers and related products, including 
variable geometry and wastegate turbochargers, high-
pressure ratio and multi-stage solutions, for Engines 
ranging from 3 to 25 liters
Fuel Systems
Diesel fuel pumps, injectors, and components, high 
pressure common rail fuel systems for diesel engines, 
controls for diesel fuel systems. Reconditioned diesel 
pumps, injectors and electronic control modulesCustomers and Markets
n  Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) who 
manufacture vehicles and equipment for all fuel 
powered systems
n  OEMs and Aftermarket distributors, dealers, and end 
users who serve all engine powered systems
n  Light-duty automotive, RV, medium-duty truck, bus, 
heavy-duty truck, agriculture, construction, mining, 
marine, small engines, rail, oil and gas and stationary 
industrial markets
Service and Parts
Sales and distribution of parts, components and related 
consumables. Repairs, overhaul, maintenance of all 
Cummins products. Develop and support a servicing 
dealer network to meet customers needs in their local 
market place
Solutions
Comprehensive business solutions using Cummins 
powered equipment, including rental, operation and 
maintenance, cost-per-hour contracts Customers and Markets
n  Customers who use Cummins-powered equipment in 
their business endeavors
n  Dealers
n  Local and regional OEMs producing lower volumes18 | Profile & GovernanceCummins recognizes that its duty goes beyond the 
bottom line. While the Company must deliver value to 
shareholders, it also strives to responsibly and effectively 
serve all stakeholders – customers, employees, business 
partners and the communities in which it operates.
The Company actively engages all stakeholders, seeking 
feedback and doing its best to keep them informed of 
Cummins’ actions and performance. The Company’s 
policies reflect a commitment to financial excellence, 
environmental stewardship, creating a great place to 
work, corporate responsibility and fair competition.
Our activities related to the community are detailed in 
the Corporate Responsibility section of this book, which 
begins on page 88.  
Customers
As a company, we realize it is not enough to develop 
the most innovative technology or build the most 
dependable engines. Our customers have to believe, 
and we must show them, we care as much about their 
success as they do. 
Cummins works with key customers during develop -
ment and production to ensure that products are 
manufactured to customers’ satisfaction. Increasingly, 
Cummins is using Six Sigma tools to help its customers 
and suppliers reduce costs and improve quality.
The Company’s goal for using Six Sigma with custom -
ers is to create the shared belief that Cummins cares as 
much about the customer’s business as the customer 
itself. Cummins currently has approximately 270 active 
customer-focused Six Sigma projects underway and 
has completed more than 880 projects since 2005. Each business unit has a leader responsible for 
developing projects to meet the needs of its customers. 
Also, each business unit is charged with developing 
customer-focused Six Sigma projects that tackle the 
issues and problems facing individual customers. 
Cummins has developed several corporate-wide initia -
tives to improve the level of customer support across 
the Company. Notable has been the Customer Support 
Excellence (CSE) training, which includes a different 
approach to meeting customer needs by looking at an 
issue through the customer’s perspective. 
The CSE program has made great progress since its 
inception in 2005. More than three-quarters of our 
employees say they clearly understand how their jobs 
impact the customer experience, while nearly one quarter 
are involved in Customer Focused Six Sigma projects
Our “Through the Lens of the Customer” initiative to 
date has trained 26,000 employees in 12 countries. 
The Net Promoter Score® (NPS) program and training 
are beginning to be rolled out globally. The NPS is a 
simple way to create a clear measure of a company’s 
performance in its customers’ eyes. NPS also creates 
a link between the quality of a company’s customer 
relationships and its profitable growth.  
The Cummins Operating System 
The Cummins Operating System (COS) helps develop 
common practices and approaches designed to 
improve customer satisfaction and profitability. The 
COS is designed to reduce waste, improve quality, 
increase responsiveness and develop people.
The COS consists of 10 operating practices that are 
common across the Company. It is supported by nine 
common functions, each with a Functional Excellence 
framework. The Functional Excellence framework at 
Cummins provides standards, measures, skills Commitment to StakeholdersProfile & Governance | 19requirements and an individual work plan so each 
function in the Company can provide service or support 
at world-class levels. Employees are trained on the 
COS and Functional Excellence approaches and their 
importance to Cummins’ future success.
In 2006, Cummins began conducting COS assess -
ments. These assessments allow us to demonstrate 
that the 10 COS practices are embedded in our key 
processes. They also allow us to identify improvement 
opportunities and develop an improvement plan to 
close the gaps.  
Employees
As of December 31, 2008, approximately 36 percent of 
our employees worldwide were represented by various 
unions under collective bargaining agreements that 
expire between 2010 and 2014. 
Cummins has a long history of being an employer of 
choice. That reputation continues to this day and is 
reinforced by the Company’s competitive salary and 
benefits offerings, training and career development 
opportunities and positive work environment.Cummins employees enjoy a full slate of benefits. In the 
U.S., for example, we offer innovative and competitively 
priced health-care coverage; disease management 
and wellness programs; flexible spending accounts for 
medical and dependent care; pension and retirement 
programs; access to world-class child development 
centers; flexible work schedules; employee assistance 
programs and more. These benefits also were made 
available to non-spousal domestic partners in 2000.  
We offer employees similar programs at all of our loca -
tions around the world.
Cummins places a premium on its workers treating one 
another with respect and dignity. Treatment of others 
at work is a key component of the Company’s Code 
of Business Conduct and is the subject of mandatory 
training for all new hires. Training and career develop -
ment opportunities also play a crucial role in Cummins’ 
success and in the Company’s efforts to attract and 
retain a talented workforce.
20 | Profile & GovernanceThe company provides to new employees training 
courses covering treatment of others, diversity, informa -
tion and physical security, sexual harassment issues, the 
Cummins performance management system and the 
Cummins Operating System. In addition, the Company’s 
Powertrain program offers on-line training on a variety of 
subjects, ranging from business software applications to 
project management skills to interpersonal and commu -
nications skills to presentation and leadership skills.
Employees’ performance and development plans are 
reviewed through the Cummins performance man -
agement system called OnTrack. Through OnTrack, 
employees work with their supervisors to create chal -
lenging work plans that reflect the goals of the Company 
and its individual performance cells. Employees receive 
formal feedback from supervisors and peers quarterly, in 
addition to a comprehensive annual evaluation.
Cummins also offers its employees opportunities for 
growth within the Company as their skills and interests 
dictate. Cummins has a strong history of “growing its 
own” leaders, and employees regularly move freely from 
one part of the Company to another. Employees are 
encouraged to seek out new challenges and to continu -
ally broaden their skill sets. High-potential employees 
are identified and offered comprehensive leadership 
training as part of the Company’s ongoing efforts to 
develop its leaders from within.Business Partners 
Cummins has working relationships with distributors 
and suppliers across the world. Similarly, the Company 
acts as a supplier of components to a number of equip -
ment manufacturers, and has been able to build strong 
bonds with its business partners.
One of the Cummins Operating System principles is to 
treat preferred suppliers as business partners. In China, 
that practice is best exemplified by Cummins’ relationship 
with Yinlun, a supplier of oil coolers. All four Cummins 
engine joint ventures in China are supplied by Yinlun, and 
Cummins’ China International Purchasing Organization 
exports more than $20 million in Yinlun products annually 
to Cummins engine plants around the world. 
Yinlun in turn has embraced several Cummins practices, 
including Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing. Yinlun has 
invested in agents and joint ventures globally to ensure 
that quality work and service support are available in 
the U.S., U.K. and Brazil. One outcome of its excellent, 
ongoing performance is a series of awards for cost 
reduction, quality, delivery, technical innovation, service 
and leadership given by Cummins joint ventures in China. 
Suppliers 
Cummins has launched a focused effort to ensure that 
the Company’ s most critical suppliers are committed 
to improvement through Six Sigma. Critical suppliers to 
Cummins must meet specific Six Sigma performance 
requirements. Cummins’ quality is heavily dependent on the 
quality of our suppliers’ products. Our experience is that Six 
Sigma is a reliable approach to quality improvement.Profile & Governance | 21Cummins’ Jamestown Engine Plant, which produces 
the heavy-duty engines that power Class 8 trucks, 
relies on metal components and sub-assemblies 
supplied by outside manufacturers. One such supplier 
was experiencing high rejection rates early in 2008, 
causing disruptions on the factory floor. A supply-
focused Six Sigma project declared a goal of reducing 
this rejection rate by more than 93 percent. We found 
that failures resulted from three basic problems for 
which the supplier was not inspecting. With new 
procedures, this supplier has now reduced its failure 
rate by 98 percent, improving its reputation as a 
precision manufacturer and increasing efficiency at the 
Jamestown Engine Plant.
Shareholders
Returning value, in terms of profits, rising stock prices 
and dividends, is a primary measure of a company’s 
commitment to its shareholders. Beyond returning 
financial value, Cummins believes it owes investors a 
transparent window into its financial workings. Cummins goes to great lengths to keep the investing 
community up-to-date on its performance and future 
outlook. Top executives hold quarterly teleconferences 
with industry analysts to discuss financial results. 
Company representatives also host or attend a number 
of investor conferences during the year, and meet or 
talk directly with individual analysts and investors on 
nearly a daily basis.
Cummins’ corporate governance practices on behalf of 
the shareholders include the following:
n  The full board of directors is elected annually.
n  The audit, compensation and nominating committees 
are made up of independent outside directors.
n  The company has a designated independent 
lead director.
n  Executives and directors are subject to stock owner -
ship guidelines.
n  All stock-based incentive plans have been approved 
by shareholders.Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return at Year-end 2008
Dollars
600
500
400
300
200
100
0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
 
Cummins
S&P 500 Index
Peer Group Index22 | Profile & GovernanceCummins reported its fifth consecutive year of record sales 
and profits in 2008, despite significant global economic chal -
lenges that negatively affected fourth quarter performance.
For the year, sales increased 10 percent to $14.3 billion, 
compared to $13.05 billion in 2007. Net income rose 
2 percent to $755 million, or $3.84 per share. Earnings 
Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) were $1.2 billion, or 
8.5 percent of sales. 
As of the end of 2008, Cummins investors have enjoyed 
a five-year average annual total return of 18 percent. The 
Company also has increased dividends by 133 percent 
since July 2006. We also executed a pair of two-for-one 
stock splits; one during 2007 and the other in early 2008. 
Cummins increased its dividend for the third time since 
July 2006 and repurchased 2.3 million shares of stock 
worth $128 million as part of its $500 million repurchase 
program announced in December 2007.
During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company took 
several steps, including a significant workforce reduc -
tion, to respond to what has become the worst global 
recession since World War II. The Company’s goal is to 
maintain a solid profit level through the downturn and to 
preserve our ability to grow profitability in the future. Still, we expect 2009 to be extremely challenging. The 
recession almost certainly will last through the end of 
this year, and we are assuming it could take until 2011 
for the global economy to fully recover.
We remain confident that the Company is well posi -
tioned to achieve its long term growth targets once 
our global markets improve. But for the short term our 
focus will be on:
n  Reducing costs and manufacturing capacity to align 
them with demand. 
n  Managing the business to ensure that we are gener -
ating positive cash flow. 
n  And, strategically investing in critical technologies and 
products for 2010 and beyond.
Detailed financial information can be found in the 
Investors and Media section of the Company’s website, 
www.cummins.com. The Cummins’ Fact Book, also 
found on the web site, contains income statement and 
balance sheet trends for the past 10 years.Economic Performance 
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 20088.44
120131140205253
9.9211.3613.0514.34
1.852.753.553.703.84
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008Net Sales  ($ in billions) EBIT Margin  (%) Diluted Earnings 
per Share  ($)EBIT Cash from Operating 
Activities  ($ in millions)Investee Equity, Royalty
and Other Income 
($ in millions)Return on Equity  (%)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 20088.44
120131140205253
9.9211.3613.0514.34
1.852.753.553.703.84
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008Net Sales  ($ in billions) EBIT Margin  (%) Diluted Earnings 
per Share  ($)EBIT Cash from Operating 
Activities  ($ in millions)Investee Equity, Royalty
and Other Income 
($ in millions)Return on Equity  (%)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 20088.44
120131140205253
9.9211.3613.0514.34
1.852.753.553.703.84
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008Net Sales  ($ in billions) EBIT Margin  (%) Diluted Earnings 
per Share  ($)EBIT Cash from Operating 
Activities  ($ in millions)Investee Equity, Royalty
and Other Income 
($ in millions)Return on Equity  (%)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008Net Sales  ($ in billions) Diluted Earnings 
per Share  ($)Cash from Operating 
Activities  ($ in millions)Investee Equity, Royalty
and Other Income 
($ in millions)Total Sales by 
Geography  (2008)
Canada
Africa and 
Middle East
Mexico and
Latin America
Asia and
 AustraliaEurope and
the CIS
United
StatesReturn on Equity  (%)
61421.325.7 25.1
20.819.3 76084081098741%
21%
18%
10%6%4%Profile & Governance | 23Competitive Strengths
We believe the following competitive strengths are instrumental to our success:
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008Net Sales  ($ in billions) Diluted Earnings 
per Share  ($)Cash from Operating 
Activities  ($ in millions)Investee Equity, Royalty
and Other Income 
($ in millions)Total Sales by 
Geography  (2008)
Canada
Africa and 
Middle East
Mexico and
Latin America
Asia and
 AustraliaEurope and
the CIS
United
StatesReturn on Equity  (%)
61421.325.7 25.1
20.819.3 76084081098741%
21%
18%
10%6%4%Strong balance sheet.  Cummins has worked hard 
over the past several years to strengthen its balance 
sheet. The company has a low debt-to-captal ratio of  
17 percent and access to nearly $2 billion in liquidity. 
Despite a sharp decline in the financial markets in 2008, 
Cummins pension fund experience less of a decline than 
other large funds and is still funded at 85 percent.
Technology leadership.  The Company’s leadership in 
combustion research, fuel systems, air handling, turbo -
chargers, electronics, filtration and aftertreatment plays a 
critical role in helping us meet emissions regulations and 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
Growing market share.  Our technology leadership 
has earned us increased share in many markets over 
the past several years. Here are some examples of our 
market share by products and regions:
n  U.S./Canada heavy-duty truck – 45 percent
n  Brazil medium-duty truck – 33 percent
n  India industrial equipment markets - 30 percent
n  Alternators globally – 25 percent
n  High-horsepower genset globally – 22 percentGlobal footprint.  Sixty percent of our sales in 2008 
came from outside the U.S. compared to just 43 percent 
in 2000. We had $3.7 billion in exports in 2008 and  
$11 billion in the past three years. We have an estab -
lished presence and strong joint venture partners in 
large emerging markets. Our Power Generation business 
is poised to take advantage of future need for power in 
developing regions such as Africa and the Middle East. 
We have a global distribution system with some owner -
ship of 85 percent of channel revenue. 
Strong partnerships.  Cummins has 55 joint ventures 
in 18 countries. We have long-term sales agreements 
in North America with leading truck Original Equipment 
Manufacturers (OEMs). In China, India and Russia, we 
partner with local OEMs, reducing investment risk and 
giving us ready access to those markets. We also have 
several joint ventures with Komatsu on a global basis to 
develop applications for the industrial segment.
Experienced management team.  Cummins is fortu -
nate to be led by a management team that has deep 
and broad management experience across businesses 
and roles in Cummins. The team has experience in 
managing in both growth and recessionary periods and 
has returned business units to profitability. They know 
how to align costs with business demand while still 
taking care of customers,
Total Sales by 
Geography  (2008)Total Sales by Market  (calculated 
before intercompany eliminations)
 20 Power Generation  
 18 Components
 17 Industrial
 13 Heavy-Duty Truck
 12 Light-Duty Truck and RV
 9 Stationary Power
 6 Medium-Duty Truck and Bus
 3 Distribution
   (by percentage)
 41 United States
 21 Europe and the CIS
 18 Asia and Australia
 10 Mexico and Latin America
 6 Africa and Middle East
 4 Canada
   (by percentage)Total Sales by 
Geography  (2008)Total Sales by Market  (calculated 
before intercompany eliminations)
 20 Power Generation  
 18 Components
 17 Industrial
 13 Heavy-Duty Truck
 12 Light-Duty Truck and RV
 9 Stationary Power
 6 Medium-Duty Truck and Bus
 3 Distribution
   (by percentage)
 41 United States
 21 Europe and the CIS
 18 Asia and Australia
 10 Mexico and Latin America
 6 Africa and Middle East
 4 Canada
   (by percentage)24 | Profile & GovernanceOver the past 90 years, Cummins has developed a 
reputation as a company that places a premium on the 
well-being of its employees and that strives to improve 
the communities in which it operates. 
Going back to its earliest days, when the founding 
family kept the company afloat during difficult times 
because it felt a responsibility to provide jobs to the 
young men of Columbus, Indiana, Cummins has been 
as much about people as products. That legacy was 
built by longtime former Cummins Chairman J. Irwin 
Miller and is carried out today through the leadership of 
Cummins’ senior executives and employees worldwide.
Cummins’ management and its employees around 
the world continue to work as partners today, building 
leading-edge products in clean, safe environments, 
while working together to strengthen the community.
“Creating a great place to work” is one of Cummins’ 
strategic business principles. At the core of that 
approach are the Company’s efforts to engage 
employees and other stakeholders in understanding 
and living the Company’s values, as well as playing an 
active role in pursuing continuous improvement across 
the Company.
That engagement and commitment to ethical behavior 
take many forms, some of which are discussed in the 
pages that follow.Cummins Code of Business Conduct
The Cummins Code, which was approved by senior 
leadership and the Cummins Board of Directors, is 
built around 10 “Statements of Ethical Principles” that 
provide the foundation for ethical behavior at Cummins. 
The principles are backed by Corporate Policies and 
other key documents that give specific guidance on 
topics and issues addressed by the statements.
The 10 Statements of Ethical Principles are:
n  We will follow the law everywhere.
n  We will embrace diverse perspectives and back -
grounds, and treat all people with dignity and respect.
n  We will compete fairly and honestly.
n  We will avoid conflicts of interest.
n  We will demand that everything we do leads to a 
cleaner, healthier and safer environment.
n  We will protect our technology, our information and 
our intellectual property.
n  We will demand that our financial records and pro -
cesses are accurate and that our reporting processes 
are clear and understandable.
n  We will strive to improve our communities.
n  We will communicate with honesty and integrity.
n  We will create a culture where all employees take 
responsibility for ethical behavior.
In late 2008 Cummins began rolling out “second genera -
tion” online training for salaried and office workers around 
the world on the Code. This training will continue in 2009 
and is being offered in multiple languages. 
To view the current Cummins Code of Business 
Conduct, go to www.cummins.com and click on  
the link from the home page.Governance
Profile & Governance | 25Cummins Compliance Training 
Cummins is committed to ensuring that its employees, 
and those with whom it does business, follow all 
applicable laws in the locations we do business.
Since late 2005, Cummins has introduced 10 online 
compliance training courses targeted at the appropriate 
employee groups. This training includes:
n Code of Business Conduct
n Treatment of Each Other at Work
n Export Controls
n Anti-bribery/Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
n Antitrust
n European Union Competition
n Careful Communication
n Intellectual Property
n Managing Within the Law
n Lobbying and Political ActionThese courses are offered in multiple languages where 
necessary and employee completion is tracked. More 
than 79,000 training subscriptions have been offered to 
employees since late 2005 (many employees must take 
more than one course due to the nature of their work) with 
a 96 percent completion rate. The Company expects to 
update both the Export Controls and Anti-bribery/Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act courses in 2009 and offer those 
courses to targeted employees to ensure that they have 
the most current information. Cummins is also working to 
provide reference materials for each course for employees 
to refer to on a day-to-day basis. 
In addition, Cummins in 2007 began offering training 
courses to key employees at its distributors in many 
locations both inside and outside the United States. 
Today 97 distributors worldwide participate in the 
Compliance Training program. Employees at these dis -
tributors are enrolled in Export Controls and Anti-bribery/
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act courses and have a 91% 
completion rate. In 2009, training will be expanded to 
additional distributors.
Compliance Training  (2008)
Course Subscriptions Completion RateEthics Cases  (Days-to-Close)
Code of Conduct (05 ver) 16,263 98%
Code of Conduct (08 ver) 3,214 95%
Treatment of Each Other 17,261 95%
Export Controls 10,411 94%
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 10,972 94%
Antitrust 3,631 99%
European Union Competition 137 100%
Careful Communication 12,537 95%
Intellectual Property 3,742 94%
Managing Within the Law 128 81%
Lobbying and Political Action 344 99%Q1 Q2 Q3Goal
2007 2008Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q440
3020
1026 | Profile & GovernanceEthics Violations, Reporting and 
Investigations 
Cummins employees are encouraged to report sus -
pected violations of the Company’s Code of Business 
Conduct or any type of misconduct, and are given 
several different means of sharing their concerns.
The Company’s third-party reporting system, 
EthicsPoint, allows employees around the globe to 
report concerns either on-line or through toll-free 
numbers in multiple languages. Employees can report 
concerns anonymously where allowed by law. Still, 
more than half of all complainants in 2008 identi -
fied themselves, showing a large degree of trust in 
the Company’s ethics investigation process. Those 
who report about any topic are protected under the 
Company’s anti-retaliation policy.
Cummins has a global team of trained Master 
Investigators who investigate complaints and ensure 
that appropriate action is taken in a timely fashion. In 
2008, Cummins investigated 682 ethics-related com -
plaints, compared to 541 in 2007. The numbers grew 
because of increased training and promotion of the 
reporting process. Of the cases investigated in 2008, 
52 percent resulted in a finding that the complaint had 
some merit – and of those 27 percent (95) resulted in 
employee termination. Cummins is currently meeting its 
goal for average closure of ethics cases of 24 days.
Complaints of unprofessional behavior and those grouped 
into the Human Relations category accounted for more 
than half the total ethics cases investigated in 2008. 
Cummins has a robust process for monitoring com -
plaints and how they are handled. Each quarter, we 
provide each Business Unit leader with a summary of 
the complaints in his or her region and their resolution. 
Our CEO also receives a quarterly update. In addition, 
once a year we provide data regarding complaints to 
the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. 
The Company’ s reporting system and its commitment to 
investigate, take action and protect those who raise con -
cerns help us bring our Code of Business Conduct to life.
Ethics Certification Process
During the fourth quarter of 2008, approximately 12,700 
Cummins employees completed their annual Ethics 
Certification. Employees certified their compliance with 
the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and underly -
ing policies and reported any exceptions to Company 
policy. Internal Audit and the Cummins Law Department 
reviewed all exceptions to ensure they were documented 
and investigated according to Company policy.
Compliance Training  (2008)
Course Subscriptions Completion RateEthics Cases  (Days-to-Close)
Code of Conduct (05 ver) 16,263 98%
Code of Conduct (08 ver) 3,214 95%
Treatment of Each Other 17,261 95%
Export Controls 10,411 94%
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 10,972 94%
Antitrust 3,631 99%
European Union Competition 137 100%
Careful Communication 12,537 95%
Intellectual Property 3,742 94%
Managing Within the Law 128 81%
Lobbying and Political Action 344 99%Q1 Q2 Q3Goal
2007 2008Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q440
3020
10Profile & Governance | 27 
Diversity Audits 
Rigorous diversity audits have been conducted at Cummins’  
facilities for more than a decade and are today a central 
component of our efforts to ensure that employees enjoy  
a positive, safe and productive work environment.
The process began in 1997, led by the Cummins Law 
Department, and is focused on making sure that our 
locations are in compliance with the laws, are operating 
in a way consistent with our commitment to diversity 
and equal opportunity, and are taking the right steps to 
provide employees with a great place to work. In that 
time, the Company has conducted more than 60 diver -
sity audits at 30 sites in the United States and Europe.
The audits are conducted by teams of four to eight 
employees with diverse backgrounds who have no 
direct connection to the site being audited. The team 
tours the facility and also examines satisfaction surveys, 
training records, personnel files and other documents 
to ensure full legal compliance and assesses the work 
environment. The audit also examines the diversity of 
employees and the site’s commitment to creating an 
inclusive and representative workforce. 
A key component of the audit involves team members 
conducting confidential one-on-one interviews with a 
randomly selected cross section of approximately 10 
percent of the site’s workforce. Employees are asked a 
variety of questions regarding their work environment, 
knowledge of workplace policies and procedures, and 
their perceptions as to whether local management is 
committed to the Company’s values, most notably our 
Code of Business Conduct, Treatment of Each Other at 
Work policy and diversity.
Results of the audits are shared with local management 
and with the Company’s senior leadership. If issues 
are discovered, the site must create an action plan to 
address issues.
1929Clessie Cummins installed 
a Model U marine engine in a 
Packard Limousine, the first car in 
America with a diesel engine and one of 
the earliest in the world. The Packard drove 
800 miles from Indianapolis to New York, the 
first ever long distance diesel trip in the U.S.
28 | Profile & GovernanceSupplier Code of Conduct
Cummins places a premium on doing business with 
companies that share its values and that treat their 
employees with dignity and respect. 
The Code spells out standards of conduct to which it 
requires its suppliers to adhere, including provisions 
banning child or forced labor, respecting employee 
rights and providing a safe workplace for employees.
In 2009, Cummins released a new Supplier Code. 
The new Supplier Code was updated to align with the 
Company’s internal Code of Conduct and to better 
emphasize the standards that suppliers must meet. 
To date, the new Supplier Code has been translated 
into 14 languages. This new Supplier Code makes it 
clear that its expectations of conduct exceed mere 
compliance with local law and that suppliers are held to 
a higher standard. At the end of 2007, Cummins had sent the Cummins 
Supplier Code of Conduct to more than 2,800 suppliers 
and had received a 99.5 percent response rate, with 
99.6 percent of those responding indicating that they 
were in compliance with every element of the code. 
Cummins is currently reviewing the supply base to 
ensure that suppliers which represented greater than 
80 percent of purchases in 2008 have responded to 
the Supplier Code of Conduct. When new suppliers are 
added, compliance is established in one of two ways. 
If a legal contract is in place, the Cummins Supplier 
Code of Conduct is a part of the agreement. If the 
terms and conditions of the relationship are confined 
to a purchase order, Cummins purchasing department 
solicits a response from the suppliers and addresses 
any areas of concern. Cummins is working with those 
suppliers who have not responded to attain our goal of 
100 percent participation.
1931The Cummins Number 8 Duesenberg racecar was the first 
diesel to break the 100 mph barrier on the hard sand at 
Daytona Beach, Florida. Powered by a 100 hp Model U, the 
racecar was also the first to complete the Indy 500 non-stop.
Profile & Governance | 29Internal Audit 
Cummins has a robust global Internal Audit department 
that provides the Board of Directors and management 
with independent, objective information on the perfor -
mance of the Company’s control environment.
The Executive Director — Internal Audit reports to 
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and 
helps the Audit Committee ensure the integrity of the 
Company’s financial statements and financial reporting, 
identify operational efficiency improvement opportuni -
ties, and monitor the Company’s compliance with 
ethics policies and legal and regulatory requirements.In 2008, Internal Audit issued 150 audit reports and 
audit memos covering functions and businesses around 
the globe. Internal Audit also has a formal implementa -
tion plan follow-up process to ensure management has 
addressed identified risks and implemented corrective 
actions. When a function or business receives an 
“Unacceptable” audit grade, the Business Unit leader -
ship must present the corrective action plans to the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Cummins has been selected as 
one of the world’s “Most Ethical 
Companies” for 2009 by the 
Ethisphere Institute. Ninety-nine 
companies were selected for the 
recognition from an initial pool of 
more than 10,000 companies.This is the third year Ethisphere, 
which describes itself as organization 
“dedicated to the creation, advance -
ment and sharing of best practices 
in business ethics, corporate social 
responsibility, anti-corruption and 
sustainability,” has compiled its list of 
most ethical companies. Cummins 
has been recognized each of the past 
two years.Reviewers for the Ethisphere Institute 
examined a wide range of information 
in selecting the companies for its list 
including: codes of ethics; litigation 
and regulatory infraction histories; 
investment in innovation and sustain -
able business practices; activities 
designed to improve corporate 
citizenship; nominations from senior 
executives, industry peers, suppliers 
and customers; and feedback from 
consumer action groups.Cummins Noted for Excellence in Governance and Ethics
Cummins received the highest possi -
ble rating for its corporate governance 
practices from GovernanceMetrics 
International (GMI). Cummins was 
one of just 43, or 1 percent of the 
companies rated, that received GMI’s 
highest rating of 10.0.
GMI rated companies based on six 
areas of analysis: board accountabil -
ity, financial disclosure and internal controls; executive compensation; 
shareholder rights; ownership base; 
takeover provisions and corpo -
rate behavior; and responsibility. 
Companies are rated from 0 to 10.
GovernanceMetrics International 
monitors and rates corporate 
governance for approximately 4,200 
businesses worldwide. Companies 
are measured using objective data, starting with 
a review of 
public infor -
mation about each business that 
includes regulatory filing, websites 
and news articles. GMI assigns both 
global and national ratings to com -
panies, allowing each corporation to 
compare itself to both businesses 
around the world and at home.
30 | Profile & GovernanceJoint Venture Relationships 
Cummins does business around the world through a 
number of joint venture agreements and alliances with 
business partners to increase our market penetra -
tion, expand our product lines, streamline our supply 
chain management and develop new technologies. 
Regardless of whether Cummins directly manages the 
joint venture entity, we take appropriate steps to ensure 
that the joint ventures share our values.
First, we carefully screen potential partners and only 
create joint ventures with partners we know and trust. 
Through our employees’ participation on the Boards of 
these entities, we make sure that Cummins values are 
embodied in the joint venture.
We are taking new steps to ensure that our joint venture 
entities treat their employees in a fair and equitable 
fashion. In 2009, all of our North American joint venture 
partners and distributors had adopted our Code of 
Business Conduct or a substantially similar code that 
embodies the same principles. We also have begun an 
audit of the existing codes in place at all our interna -
tional joint venture partners, and will ensure that such 
entities have or adopt codes in line with our own.In 2007, we developed a training package to orient 
Cummins employees who serve as directors of our 
joint ventures to their responsibilities. The training 
emphasizes the internal review processes that we use 
in selecting a joint venture partner. This training focuses 
on the role of the Cummins director in the management 
of the joint venture and stresses the support available to 
the directors from Cummins specialists in the areas of 
finance, human resources, operations, safety, environ -
mental and other functions. The training also stresses 
the establishment and maintenance of a favorable 
relationship with the JV partner as an aid in resolution of 
disputes that arise.
During 2007, six training sessions were conducted in 
Indiana, India, China and England. Approximately 100 
JV directors, general managers and financial leaders 
have been trained. The training continued in 2008 in 
Brazil and Indiana.
In addition to this face-to-face training, Cummins 
also has launched a pilot program to deliver some 
of its on-line compliance and ethics courses – such 
as courses on anti-bribery and export controls – to 
employees of JVs. This program has been launched 
with the joint venture distributor network in North 
American and also is being rolled out to targeted 
international joint ventures.Profile & Governance | 31Cummins Board of Directors 
Cummins is governed by an nine-member Board of Directors. Among the directors, only Cummins Chief Executive 
Officer Theodore (Tim) M. Solso and President and Chief Operating Officer N. Thomas Linebarger are current employees 
of the Company. Board members are:
Robert J. Bernhard  Vice President 
for Research and an engineering 
professor of the University of  
Notre Dame, appointed in 2008.  
 
Robert J. Darnall  Retired Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of Inland 
Steel Industries and a Cummins 
director since 1989.  
 
Robert K. Herdman  Managing 
Director of Kalorama Partners LLC,  
a Washington D.C.- based consult -
ing firm, appointed in 2008.  
 
Alexis M. Herman  Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of  
New Ventures Inc. and a director 
since 2001.  
 
N. Thomas Linebarger  President 
and Chief Operating Officer of 
Cummins. He was elected director  
in 2009.Georgia R. Nelson  President and 
CEO of PTI Resources, LLC. She 
joined the Cummins Board in 2004.  
 
 
William I. Miller  Chairman and CEO 
of Irwin Financial Corp. and  
a director since 1989.  
 
 
Theodore (Tim) M. Solso  Chief 
Executive Officer and Chairman of 
the Board at Cummins since 2000, 
after serving as Company President 
since 1995.  
Carl Ware  President and Chief 
Operating Officer of Ware Investment 
Properties, LLC. He was named a 
director in 2004.
32 | Profile & GovernanceThe primary mission of the Board of Directors is to 
represent and protect the interests of the Company’s 
stakeholders. In so doing, the Board has the legal 
responsibility for overseeing the affairs of the Company, 
and has certain specified powers and authorities with 
respect to corporate action provided by Indiana statutes.
The Board’s oversight function is first exercised through 
the election and appointment of competent officers. The 
Board relies on the integrity, expertise and competency 
of these officers in carrying out its oversight function. The Board’s responsibilities include the following:
n  Adopt corporate governance principles consistent 
with the Company’s Vision, Mission and Values.
n  Exercise sound and independent business judgment 
with respect to significant strategic and operational 
issues, including major capital expenditures, diversifi -
cations, acquisitions, divestitures and new ventures.
n  Advise senior management.
n  Monitor:
  –  The performance of the Company
  –  The performance of senior management
  –  The effectiveness of internal controls and risk 
management practices
  –  Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations
  –  Communications and relationships with stakeholders
1932A 32-seater Mack bus repowered with Cummins 125 hp Model H 
diesel set a transcontinental bus record time from New York to Los 
Angeles in just over 91 hours. The test bus reached speeds up to 65 
mph, achieving a faster travel time than by express train.
Corporate Governance Principles for the BoardProfile & Governance | 33In discharging its fiduciary duties to act in the best  
interests of the Company, the Board considers the effect 
of its actions on shareholders, employees, suppliers, 
customers, communities, regulators and the broader 
interests of society. The Board has seven standing 
committees: Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
Compensation Committee, Governance and Nominating 
Committee, Finance Committee, Proxy Committee, 
and Safety, Environment and Technology Committee 
and. The responsibilities of the Audit, Compensation, 
Governance and Nominating, Finance, and Safety, 
Environment and Technology committees are set forth in 
written committee charters approved by the Board.The Company complies with all NYSE and regulatory 
requirements concerning the membership of certain 
committees, including the requirements with respect to 
independence and financial expertise. The Governance 
and Nominating Committee reviews the committee 
structures of the Board and the membership of the 
various committees annually, and makes recommenda -
tions for any changes to the Board.On August 5, 2008 Wuxi Cummins 
Turbo Technologies achieved a 
significant milestone, completing the 
facility’s three millionth turbocharger.
Turbochargers are a vital component 
of modern diesel engines. They 
enable the engine to “breathe” more 
deeply, introducing more oxygen, 
which enables the addition of more 
fuel—and thus, more power. Since 
they are driven by exhaust gases, turbochargers do not need any 
power from the engine to operate. 
Thus, they have proven vital in 
the trade-off between increased 
efficiency and reduced emissions 
in diesel engines. China’s growing 
economy needs these compo -
nents, and Wuxi Cummins Turbo 
Technologies is increasing its ability 
to supply them. 
Wuxi’s millionth turbocharger was 
produced after eight years of 
production, with the two millionth 
turbocharger coming after a further 
three years. It was only 15 months 
later when the three millionth turbo -
charger was lifted off the production 
line. It is testament to the hard work 
of employees at the facility and sums 
up the rapid development of Wuxi 
Cummins Turbo Technologies over 
its short history.A ceremony celebrating this achieve -
ment was opened by Chen Hua, 
General Manager of Wuxi Cummins 
Turbo Technologies. Joining the 
employees at the ceremony were 
key leaders from FAW Wuxi Diesel, 
the company’s business partner. 
Mark O’Connor, Country Manager 
of China, addressed the employees 
and guests with expressions of 
appreciation. Quang Huanrong, 
General Manager of FAW Wuxi 
Diesel, followed with a speech 
in which he congratulated Wuxi 
Cummins Turbo Technologies on its 
swift development, commending the 
partnership between Wuxi Cummins 
Turbo Technologies and FAW Wuxi 
Diesel over recent years.Wuxi Cummins Turbo Technologies  
Produces 3 Millionth Turbocharger
34 | Profile & GovernanceControlling Exports
As an international company, Cummins faces a 
complex set of export controls. The United States 
frequently imposes trade embargoes against certain 
countries and places restrictions on items that can be 
shipped to certain other countries.
Cummins follows all applicable U.S. export laws, 
but goes further in some instances. For example, 
the Company bars transactions with any person or 
organization where the end destination of a Cummins 
product is Sudan or Myanmar (Burma); or where any 
Cummins product or service would be used in a military 
application in Syria, Libya, North Korea or Iran. 
Cummins’ policy on exports is comprehensive, but can 
be summed up in the following manner: 
n  We will know which countries are subject to sanctions. 
n  We will know our customers and business partners. 
n  We will know our products and be aware of their 
export control status. 
n  We will obtain necessary licenses where warranted 
and will strictly follow their conditions. 
We believe our reputation for ethical and responsible 
conduct is our most important and valuable asset, and 
we encourage employees to raise compliance concerns 
to the highest levels of the Company.
All Cummins employees who complete the Annual 
Ethics Certification must certify their compliance with 
our Export Control Policy.Crisis Communications
Making sure that Cummins is prepared if a crisis 
occurs is a key Company responsibility. To assist facility 
managers and others involved in emergency planning, 
Cummins routinely updates its Crisis Communications 
Plan. The plan includes vital information for facilities on 
how to communicate effectively during a crisis, as well 
as templates and forms to assist employees in gather -
ing and updating information.
Cummins also has developed business continuity plans 
for each business unit or critical function within the 
business unit.
Pandemic Planning
At Cummins, the well-being of our employees is 
extremely important. As such, the Company has taken 
steps to ensure the health and safety of employees 
should a flu pandemic occur.
The Company formed a Pandemic Planning Team with 
individuals representing medical, safety, risk manage -
ment, human resources, facilities, communication, 
business continuity and other key areas to help create  
a strategic response plan in the event of a pandemic.
As Cummins entered the summer of 2009, each 
Cummins facility was following an existing plan to 
cope with outbreaks of the H1N1 influenza virus. The 
Cummins Pandemic Response Plan includes six pro -
gressive stages, with local response growing stronger 
as the number of probable H1N1 cases reported near 
a Cummins facility grows, and declining as the number 
of reported cases declines. Local management has the 
discretion to respond to local circumstances, and the 
directives of local health agencies are always followed. Managing Risks Profile & Governance | 35At higher stages, face-to-face meetings may be limited, 
and non-essential gatherings may be postponed. Those 
seeking to enter Cummins facilities may be asked to 
assess themselves for symptoms and are advised to 
seek immediate health care if they display them. At the 
very highest stage, management might even consider 
suspending operations until an “all clear” is given. No 
Cummins location had reached that stage, but teams 
continue monitoring the situation.
Managing Travel Risks
Cummins serves customers in countries and territories 
around the world, so global travel is part of many 
employees’ job. Travelers need a smooth, efficient 
travel process in order to reach a company’s business 
objectives. And during times of national, corporate, 
or personal crisis, travel management is crucial to 
reducing the risk to a company and its travelers through 
employee tracking and emergency assistance.
Travel management is a specialized business function 
that balances employee needs with corporate goals, 
financial and otherwise. Travel management ensures 
cost tracking and control, facilitates adherence to 
corporate travel policies, realizes savings through 
negotiated discounts, and serves as a valuable informa -
tion center for employees and managers in times when 
travel is not as smooth and carefree as it used to be.
Two years ago Cummins used Six Sigma tools to 
develop a bid package to find a global travel manage -
ment company that could measure up in terms of 
economics, capability, systems and emergency report -
ing. In the past, Cummins’ worked with numerous travel 
agencies across the world, which made data gathering 
and reporting difficult. Today, by working closely with a limited number of 
global travel management companies and security intel -
ligence suppliers, we are getting all the data needed 
to understand the location and disposition of global 
travelers. Cummins is updated on the latest develop -
ments worldwide. Whether those developments include 
the risk of insurrections in an unstable region or the 
state of a recent viral outbreak, managers can assess 
situations and respond in a rapid and effective manner 
to situations that impact personal safety and security.
Government Relations and  
Political Activity
Cummins maintains an office in Washington, D.C. 
to coordinate government relations activities. The 
Washington office provides strategic insight and advice 
to Cummins’ business leaders on emerging govern -
ment issues and activities, provides top level access to 
government officials and key policymakers, develops 
and implements government relations strategies to 
achieve business objectives and advances business 
marketing objectives relative to government programs.
The office elevates government issues to senior 
management, ensures alignment with Cummins’ values 
and businesses objectives, and identifies and resolves 
key government issues that impact us.. Specific areas 
of activity include energy policy, environment, tax, trade, 
transportation, government research and development, 
government markets, workplace and human resources 
issues, defense and homeland security and facility and 
infrastructure programs. 
36 | Profile & GovernanceIn 2008, the office continued efforts with a broad group 
of environmental, industry and public groups to fully 
fund the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act, a national 
grant program to promote the retrofit of older diesel 
engines with emission reduction technologies. The office 
worked closely with the Administration and Congress 
on review and scoping activities for a new fuel efficiency 
program for medium and heavy-duty trucks. Cummins 
helped lead efforts to promote the installation of energy 
efficiency technologies, including clean and efficient 
combined heat and power projects, at industrial sites 
across the country. We also worked to promote respon -
sible trade measures and debate, competitiveness 
measures such as extension of the R&D tax credit, and 
expanded federal research funding for energy efficient 
products in the transportation and energy sectors. 
Cummins belongs to a number of trade organizations in 
order to further its business interests. We believe these 
organizations help us by leveraging our resources on 
issues where we have a similar interest. While we may not 
agree with the positions these associations take on every 
issue, we believe that participating in these organizations 
ensures that our voice is heard. Some of these organiza -
tions may use a portion of member dues either directly or 
indirectly for lobbying or other political activities. The following is a list of trade organizations to which 
Cummins paid dues in excess of $50,000 during calen -
dar year 2008. The numbers represent our estimation 
of the portion of our dues used by those organizations 
for lobbying or other political expenditures.
Trade association  
  Dues spent on lobbying 
American Trucking Associations
  $11,930
Business Roundtable
  $31,000
Diesel Technology Forum
  < $4,000
Emissions Control Technology Association
  n/a
Engine Manufacturers Association
  $10,378
National Association of Manufacturers
  $13,132
U.S. Chamber of Commerce
  $18,000 Profile & Governance | 37As a general practice, Cummins does not make political 
contributions with corporate funds. However, the Company 
maintains a corporate policy that allows for certain state 
and local contributions, where permissible by law. Political 
contributions with corporate funds may only be made with 
prior approval from the Company’s Executive Committee. 
In 2008, Cummins made no political contributions of any 
kind using corporate funds. The Cummins Inc. Political Action Committee (CIPAC) 
makes contributions to candidates for federal office 
on a bipartisan basis after review and approval by the 
CIPAC Executive Committee and according to federal 
election law. A complete listing of CIPAC’s contributions 
to candidates can be found on the Federal Election 
Commission website at www.fec.gov. 
1935n  All CIPAC contributions are strictly voluntary.
n  The Company will not reimburse employees directly 
or indirectly for political contributions.
n  Employees will not be pressured to contribute to CIPAC 
or make any other personal political contribution. 
n  No employee will be solicited by his or her 
immediate supervisor. 
n  Prior approval by a majority of the CIPAC Executive 
Committee shall be required for all contributions or 
other expenditures in the excess of $100. n  Contributions to political candidates and political 
organizations are based on the following criteria: 
a. Public integrity of the candidate. 
b.  Representation of a Cummins facility or employees. 
c. Support for issues of importance to Cummins.
d. Timely and effective constituent service. 
e. Political leadership or organization. 
f. Financial need of the candidate. 
g. Support for our core values.
n  All of our political activities are disclosed to the 
Cummins Board of Directors in an annual political 
contribution report.The Cummins Inc. Political Action Committee is strictly governed by corporate policies  
and by-laws that expressly state the following:
A venture to build locomotives in Columbus established 
Cummins as one of the pioneers of diesel-electric rail power, 
featuring experimental 500 hp 12-cylinder VL engines. The 
locomotive business and the unique twin-engine design was 
transferred to General Electric Company. 
38 | Enviroment & Safety
The Cummins mission states that we will 
“demand that everything we do leads to 
a cleaner, healthier, safer environment,” a 
vision sustained through our long history of 
partnering with industry and government.Enviroment & Safety | 39Cummins and Climate Change
Early in 2007, Cummins formed a climate change 
team to take both a holistic and tactical view of climate 
change and sustainability at Cummins. The team’s 
members are from across business units and functions 
and represent facilities, product planning, corporate 
strategy, environmental policy and government rela -
tions, among others. The team looks at issues that 
range in complexity from domestic and international 
energy policy and fuel economy standards to simpler 
challenges, such as buildings best suited for waste heat 
recovery and daylight harvesters.
The group’s current focus is structured around newly 
developed principles to serve as our framework to meet 
the challenges of climate change going forward. Six of 
these principles direct company actions for our prod -
ucts, businesses, employees and communities, while 
four of them shape our partnerships with legislative and 
regulatory entities to develop sound public policy to 
address climate change
The Cummins mission states that we will “demand 
that everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier, 
safer environment,” a vision sustained through our long 
history of partnering with industry and government.A few examples of how we are fulfilling our mission:
n  Cummins was the first to certify to U.S. EPA’s 
2010 emissions standards, a full three years  
ahead of schedule
n  Through Cummins Diesel Recon, we reuse and recycle 
more than 50 million pounds of material each year
n  Using Six Sigma process improvement tools, we work 
with our customers to reduce the fuel consumption 
of their fleets and with our suppliers to develop more 
environmentally-friendly components for our products
n  Cummins certifies the use of biodiesel blends up to 
B20 in our new on- and off-highway engines
n  Cummins powers 100 percent of new natural gas urban 
transit buses in the U.S. as well as more than 3,000 
buses in Beijing, China and 4,200 in New Delhi, India
n  Cummins is reducing facility greenhouse gas emis -
sions 25 percent below 2005 levels by 2010 as part 
of the U.S. EPA’s Climate Leaders program.Environmental Stewardship40 | Enviroment & Safety
1
7
3
9
6
4
10
5
2
8Cummins Climate Change Principles
Consistent with our past practices and shared values, 
Cummins has developed 10 principles to serve as our 
framework to meet the challenges of climate change. 
Six of our principles direct company actions for our 
products, businesses, employees and communities:
Improve Product Efficiency  We will be a leader in 
developing new power technologies and products to 
meet the needs of a carbon constrained economy.
Grow and Develop New Businesses  We will identify 
opportunities to grow current businesses and develop 
new ones to deliver products and services that meet 
global power needs with less carbon usage.
Collaborate with Suppliers and Customers  We will 
work with our suppliers, customers and end-users to 
help reduce their carbon footprint and learn from them.
Make Work Spaces Green Spaces  We will reduce 
the greenhouse gas emissions of our facilities globally.
Harness the Energy of Employees  We will build an 
awareness of climate change with our employees, draw 
on their energy and ingenuity and empower them to 
make a difference at work and home.
Support Community Efforts  We will support commu -
nities as they reduce their greenhouse gas emissions 
and transition to a carbon constrained economy.Climate Change Principles  
for Public Policy
Four of our principles shape our partnerships with 
legislative and regulatory entities to develop sound 
public policy to address climate change.
Develop Responsible Regulations  We support 
regulations that meet the needs of the environment, allow 
appropriate time for technology development and provide 
for the transition to a carbon constrained economy.
Promote T echnology Development  We support policies 
to develop the right technologies and products to meet 
short and long-term goals for greenhouse gas reductions.
Accelerate Progress through Incentives  We 
support incentives to encourage the commercialization 
and adoption of greenhouse gas reducing technologies, 
products and processes.
Create a Balanced Global Approach  We support an 
international framework for climate change that reduces 
emissions without leading to trade inequities or barriers 
to global commerce.Enviroment & Safety | 41Cummins employees have shown that 
a few simple actions can make a mean -
ingful environmental difference through 
their performance on the Company’ s 
first “Unplugged Challenge.”
Cummins 
employees  
were chal -
lenged to 
improve 
shutdown 
procedures for electrical equipment 
over the recent Christmas holiday 
period to see how much money and 
energy the Company could save. 
Their efforts yielded a savings of 
$908,710, compared to the same 
period during the holiday shutdown 
last year – or more than 7,000 tons 
of carbon dioxide that was not 
released into the atmosphere. 
The Unplugged Challenge asked 
employees to examine power-down 
procedures for ways to save both 
money and energy. Teams used sign templates to identify powered-down 
systems and documented the steps 
for restoring operation. Systems 
were set at minimal levels that 
would safeguard against freezing 
damage or problems upon startup. 
Employees also did sweeps on the 
first shutdown day to ensure lights 
and electronics were turned off. 
Fifty-four Cummins sites across the 
world representing 90 percent of 
the Company’s energy use partici -
pated in the Unplugged Challenge. 
Results from our Unplugged Challenge 
exceeded all expectations, thanks 
to an extraordinary participation 
level across every business unit. 
Employees were diligent in doing 
both the small actions that can really 
add up and creative in applying new 
procedures to save energy. The chal -
lenge produced outstanding results 
and set the bar high for future efforts. Best Performance Awards
Best Energy Cost Savings  
Cummins Turbo Technologies, 
Huddersfield  
$81,373
Best Percent Energy Reduction  
Cummins Turbo Technologies, Dewas  
85 percent 
Best Greenhouse Gas Reduction  
Engine Business, Cummins Industrial 
Center/Cummins Komatsu Engine Co.  
583 tons CO2e
Best Engagement Awards
Best Employee Communications  
Cummins Filtration, Black River Falls
Best Employee Engagement  
Engine Business, Jamestown  
Engine Plant
Best Energy Innovations  
Cummins Emission Solutions, 
Mineral PointCummins Unplugged Challenge saves nearly $1 million  
and reduces carbon dioxide emissions by 7,000 tons
42 | Enviroment & SafetyCummins Energy Efficiency Team 
The EPA’s Climate 
Leaders program offers 
a rigorous approach to 
greenhouse gas reduc -
tion that yields credible results. Cummins took the most 
comprehensive stance possible, choosing to include 
in its baseline audit all management controlled entities 
worldwide. All GHGs at 262 sites are currently being 
tracked and reported in metric tons of carbon dioxide-
equivalent. We have automated much of the data 
collection with a web-based worldwide Environmental 
Metrics System.A corporate Energy Efficiency Team was chartered in 
the second quarter of 2007 with leaders from each 
business unit and related environmental functions. The 
team developed a strategic plan and an intensive study 
of energy assessments at our largest facilities was 
completed by the end of 2007.
These formal assessments created a working list of 
more 1,000 viable capital projects that we prioritized 
according to their financial and environmental benefits. 
A corporate Energy Efficiency Strategic Capital Fund 
supports these projects.As a leading global engine supplier 
in many geographic regions and 
engine applications, Cummins is 
committed to helping customers 
achieve the lowest operating costs. 
Fuel economy represents the largest 
single cost factor in many custom -
ers’ operations. Customers count on 
Cummins not only for the most fuel 
efficient products, but also to use Six 
Sigma tools to help them measure, 
optimize, and control the critical 
factors that impact fuel consumption. 
Cummins’ ongoing efforts to help 
customers reduce operating costs 
also deliver substantial reductions 
in greenhouse gas emissions. From 
2004 to 2008, Cummins completed 
44 customer-focused Six Sigma 
projects, which resulted in a savings 
of 40 million gallons of fuel globally 
and 406,128 metric tons of CO2 
eliminated cumulatively. This is 
equivalent to taking 74,382 passen -
ger vehicles off the road. Cummins territory managers are 
equipped with the skills and tools 
necessary to support our customers 
as fuel economy experts. One such 
tool that has been developed by 
Cummins is the software application 
known as PowerSpec. PowerSpec 
gives our representatives the ability to:
–  Configure trucks to maximize 
fuel economy for a customer’s 
unique needs
–  Analyze customer data to pinpoint 
areas for MPG improvements
–  Set adjustable features which 
include road speed governor, 
cruise control, and idle reductionBarney Trucking, a Utah truck fleet, 
is an example of the success of 
using both PowerSpec and the Six 
Sigma methodology. The Cummins 
team worked closely with Barney 
Trucking on a Six Sigma miles per 
gallon improvement project in 2008. 
The objective of the project was to 
evaluate Barney Trucking’s electronic 
engine settings to improve fuel 
economy and balance the proposed 
changes with required performance. 
Using Cummins patented features 
such as Load Based Speed Control 
and Gear Down Protection, Barney 
Trucking realized a 10 percent fuel 
economy improvement. Cummins helps customers improve fuel economy  
and reduce greenhouse gas emissions
Enviroment & Safety | 43Collaborating with Customers
Cummins’ efforts to reduce carbon intensity encom -
pass both our products and our collaborative efforts 
with customers.
Engines
Cummins has numerous initiatives in this area, with 
key ones focused on the management of automotive 
heavy-duty engine idle, cruise control and speed. Idle 
management features supported within the Electronic 
Control Modules (ECMs) of our engines can help our 
customers reduce fuel consumption by shutting off the 
engine after a specified amount of time at idle. When 
fuel is saved less carbon is released.
The second aspect of reducing/managing the carbon 
risks involves our fuel economy features. Some of 
these features are:
n  Road Speed and Cruise Control Governor:  The 
feature limits the maximum vehicle speed with the 
driver’s foot on and off the throttle. Power required, 
and therefore fuel burned, is directly proportional to 
vehicle speed.
n  Smart Torque:  By allowing high torque in the top 
two gears, you can minimize the number of down 
shifts required to maintain speed on the highway. By 
avoiding a downshift, overall engine speed is lowered 
and a lower engine speed generally equates to less 
fuel burned.
n  Information Features:  In addition to these 
“active” features, Cummins engines also have a 
number of “information features” where “trip” or 
“duty cycle” information is stored. By reviewing 
these data, a fleet manager can look for variations 
between drivers or trucks, look for trends and use 
the data for driver coaching.Combined Heat and Power Applications
Cogeneration, or Combined Heat and Power (CHP), is 
the production of two kinds of energy – usually electric -
ity and heat – from a single source of fuel. 
Cogeneration can replace the traditional method of 
supplying energy from multiple sources, e.g., purchas -
ing electricity from the power grid and burning natural 
gas or oil separately in a furnace to produce heat or 
steam. These methods can waste up to two-thirds  
of the energy in the original fuel. With cogeneration,  
70–90 percent of the energy in the original fuel is put  
to productive use and total energy savings can be  
30 percent or more.
A cogeneration system normally consists of a prime 
mover turning an alternator to produce electricity and 
a waste heat recovery system to capture the heat from 
the exhaust and cooling water jacket. The prime mover 
can be a diesel engine, a lean-burn gas reciprocating 
engine or a gas turbine. 
Cummins Power Generation designs and builds 
cogeneration systems used around the globe in various 
applications. These applications include greenhouses that 
utilize the electricity for lighting, waste heat to keep the 
greenhouses at the ideal growing temperature, and the 
CO2 in the exhaust as food for the plants. Another appli -
cation operates on the methane created in a wastewater 
treatment plant digester instead of venting the methane to 
the atmosphere. The waste heat from the generator set 
keeps the treatment plant digester at the ideal tempera -
ture. Other CHP applications include hospitals, schools, 
sports complexes, and commercial facilities.
Cummins has 430 MW of installed cogeneration instal -
lations globally with and average project size of 2 MW. 
These installations represent a GHG reduction of about 
500,000 metric tons of CO2 per year for our customers.44 | Enviroment & SafetyEngine Testing
Cummins is working to reduce energy consumption, 
lower pollution levels and reduce costs through initia -
tives to reduce engine testing in product development 
and in manufacturing. These initiatives encompass 
design, the verification of manufacturing quality and the 
advanced diesel engine quality verification process. See 
discussion of analysis-led design on page 73.
Sustainability Reporting  
and Partnerships
Cummins seeks to partner with groups that help us be 
a better steward of the environment. For the past three 
years, we have participated in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP), an institutional investor consortium that 
seeks to encourage greater environmental reporting 
among companies.On behalf of investors representing $31 trillion in assets 
under management, CDP asks companies to provide 
details on their carbon emissions, their positioning 
in response to the impact of climate change on their 
markets and regulatory environment, their use of energy 
and planning for the future.
The Company was named to the Dow Jones World 
Sustainability Index for the fourth year in row, being 
recognized again for its economic, environmental and 
social leadership. This index represents the top 10 
percent of the world’s largest 2,500 companies in these 
corporate sustainability metrics.
In addition, Cummins is a member of the Business 
Round Table Climate RESOLVE (Responsible 
Environmental Steps, Opportunities to Lead by 
Voluntary Efforts), whose members have voluntarily 
committed to reduce or offset greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions. Cummins also is a member of the Global 
Environmental Leadership Council of the Pew Center 
on Climate Change and Resources for the Future 
Climate Forum.Jamestown Engine Plant (JEP) is the 
first Cummins facility to go landfill 
free. Its waste now joins other waste 
streams from across New York State, 
Michigan, Ohio and Canada to be 
burned in a controlled incineration 
process. Covanta Niagara, a waste 
to energy (WTE) incineration facility 
located in Niagara Falls, New York, 
has been contracted by JEP to burn 
all of the plant’s waste that was 
previously sent to the local landfill.
By this incineration of waste, the 
plant will be reducing its carbon 
footprint and the waste will be 
transformed into immediate usable power, rather than taking up space 
in a landfill, slowly decomposing over 
the next millennia.
It is this decomposition and subse -
quent emission of methane gas that 
persuaded JEP to turn to incinera -
tion of waste. According to the EPA, 
decomposition of trash in open 
landfills contributes to 131 million 
tons of methane being released into 
the atmosphere annually. 
This is significant because methane 
is considered to be a major contribu -
tor to global warming. By eliminating 
landfill waste, JEP will lessen its CO2E (carbon dioxide equivalent) 
production by over 1,454 tons a 
year.  The combustion of the JEP’s 
trash will produce 5 million pounds 
of high pressure steam and generate 
more than 3,400 megawatt/hours of 
electricity over the course of a year.New York Plant Turns Waste into Energy
Enviroment & Safety | 45Leadership in combustion research, fuel systems, 
air-handling systems, electronics, filtration and 
aftertreatment allows Cummins to maintain its goal 
of maximizing customer value by providing the most 
appropriate emissions control for each market served.
Cummins’ diverse product portfolio meets or exceeds 
all emissions requirements, and at the same time, deliv -
ers on customer needs for fuel economy, performance, 
reliability and durability.
Cummins’ technology approach for on-highway engines 
to meet the more stringent 2010 U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency’s diesel emissions standards will use 
an evolution of its proven 2007 solutions to maintain 
power and torque with comparable fuel economy and 
maintenance intervals the same as today. Cummins will 
offer a complete lineup of on-highway engines to meet 
the near-zero 2010 emissions standards.The 2010 EPA Emissions and Fuel Rule
Looking ahead to 2010, emission requirements will 
change dramatically for heavy-duty trucks over this 
period. Both NOx and PM will be reduced by 90 
percent from 2004 levels.
By 2010, all heavy-duty diesel engines are expected to 
meet the NOx standard of 0.20 grams per brake-horse -
power hour (g/bhp-hr) and the PM standard of 0.01g/
bhp-hr. Also by 2010, regulations will require the phase-
in of advanced on-board diagnostics with additional 
sensors to monitor the effectiveness of emission-control 
systems on the engine, which will alert the driver if a 
failed emission-reduction device needs to be repaired.
Ultra-Low Sulfur Diesel Fuel (ULSD) 
In addition to the new exhaust emission standards, 
the EPA is lowering the limit for diesel sulfur fuel from 
500 parts per million (ppm) to 15 ppm. The new fuel 
standard began to be phased in October 2006 and will 
be completed by September 1, 2010.
Cummins has publicly expressed its support of ultra-
low sulfur fuel. ULSD has several benefits. It produces 
less particulate matter from combustion, so it is a 
particulate matter control strategy for all equipment in 
use. In addition, ultra-low sulfur fuel enables the use of 
advanced aftertreatment control systems.The Right Technology for Reducing Emissions
Products as Performance Indicators46 | Enviroment & SafetyReady for 2010
Cummins’ entire on-highway product range will be ready 
to meet the new Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
regulations for the North American market beginning in 
2010. The breadth of Cummins’ 2010 product offer -
ings demonstrates the Company’s commitment to its 
customers as well as to the environment.
Cummins will offer a range of engines from the 6.7-liter 
ISB to 15-liter ISX, delivering best-in-class fuel economy 
and performance, while complying with the EPA’s 
newest and most stringent emissions standards. This 
is a formula that customers need in today’s economy 
and environment, and is why Cummins advocates and 
supports the implementation of EPA’s commitment to 
the lowest diesel emission levels in the world in 2010.
For 2010, Cummins will introduce the ISX15, which 
will provide substantial fuel economy improvement, 
stronger performance, faster throttle response and 
overall best-in-class drivability and reliability compared 
to today’s industry leading ISX engine. The ISX15 
will feature the new Cummins XPI fuel system, next 
generation cooled EGR system, advanced VGTTM tur -
bocharger and a new Cummins Aftertreatment System 
that incorporates Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) 
catalyst technology.
Cummins also will introduce the new ISX11.9 for 
vocational trucks, emergency vehicles and motor 
coach applications.  
The ISX engine is the market leader today in the 
North America heavy duty on-highway truck market.  
Cummins’ market share of the heavy duty on-highway 
business has grown from 27 percent in 2006 to more 
than 45 percent in 2008.Cummins also will offer its ISB6.7, ISC8.3 and ISL9 
engines for 2010. Cummins MidRange engines deliver 
best-in-class fuel economy and reliability with high power-
to-weight ratios, and have made significant market share 
gains in medium-duty trucks and bus applications.  
In addition to the fuel economy gains associated with 
SCR and Cummins XPI fuel system, the performance 
and reliability enhancements that come with decreased 
EGR rates are even greater than first estimated, which is 
more evidence that SCR is the right technology for 2010.
Competitive Advantages
Across its entire lineup of on-highway engines, 
Cummins is able to meet increasingly stringent emis -
sions regulations with speed and efficiency, due 
primarily to two competitive advantages.
First, Cummins benefits from an integrated business 
structure that enables it to tap the core competen -
cies of Cummins Emission Solutions, Cummins Turbo 
Technologies, Cummins Fuel Systems and Cummins 
Filtration. These businesses work together to bring to 
market technologically superior, fully integrated systems.
Second, Cummins has worldwide experience and 
leadership with a wide range of proven technologies. 
Cummins continues to execute its carefully planned 
product strategy, anticipating changes and investing 
in the research and development necessary to meet 
customer needs and environmental goals.Enviroment & Safety | 47Evolution of Alternative Fuel Engines
Cummins has a joint venture with Cummins Westport, 
which manufactures and sells the world’s widest range 
of low-emissions alternative fuel engines for commercial 
transportation applications such as trucks and buses. 
Cummins Westport has established its leadership posi -
tion as a global provider of alternative fuel and natural 
gas engines. More than 2,000 buses in Beijing, more 
than 2,000 in Dehli, 1,000 in the Los Angeles Metro 
fleet and hundreds in the San Diego MTS fleet are using 
Cummins Westport engines. Natural gas is becoming 
a mainstream fuel solution and Cummins Westport 
engines such as the ISL-G, the first natural gas engine 
for trucks and buses to be 2010 EPA certified, is rapidly 
becoming the global standard.In addition, Cummins Westport offers an engine that 
runs on both affordable, low-carbon natural gas and 
zero- carbon biogas.  For example, refuse dumped 
today produces significant amounts of landfill gas or 
biomethane. The biogas is captured, processed and 
put back in the very truck that brought the refuse. This 
‘recyclable’ business solution is driving natural gas 
engine orders, and reducing dependence fossil fuels.After a thrilling high speed run 
through the Suez Canal, the world’s 
fastest vessel stopped briefly in 
Port Suez, Egypt.  Fueled with 
100 percent biodiesel fuel, the 
Earthrace was on its final leg of a 
global circumnavigation that set a 
new world’s record. Earthrace is a 
24-meter, wave-piercing trimaran 
vessel powered by twin Cummins MerCruiser Diesel QSC8.3-540hp 
engines running on 100 percent 
biodiesel fuel, creating tremendous 
power (maximum speed 90 kilome -
ters an hour) while leaving a net zero 
carbon footprint.
From its start In May 2008 in 
Sagunto, Spain, the Earthrace, 
an advanced endurance vessel, 
traveled through the Panama Canal, 
the Pacific, into the Indian Ocean 
and through the Suez Canal with 
the support of an amazing number 
of individuals determined to see it 
succeed. The Earthrace faced many 
challenges during its journey, the 
second attempt in as many years by 
a group dedicated to proving that 
being environmentally conscious does 
not require sacrificing performance.In the last leg of the journey, 
Earthrace was the only vessel in the 
world to receive special dispensation 
to pass through the Suez Canal at 
full speed to continue on its journey 
through the Mediterranean to Spain, 
a full 2,550 miles ahead of the world 
record pace set by the British Cable 
and Wireless team in 1998 (also 
using Cummins engines). According 
to Pete Bethune, Earthrace’s captain, 
“Breaking the world record by such 
a large margin using a boat with a 
net zero carbon footprint proves that 
being green does not mean skimping 
on performance or design. We’re 
hoping this big gesture will have an 
effect on the way people think about 
every aspect of their everyday lives.”Earthrace Smashes World Record for a Greener Planet with 
Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Power
48 | Enviroment & SafetyBiodiesel is a clean-burning alternative fuel made from 
renewable resources like soybeans, vegetable oils and 
even algae. It creates about 60 percent less carbon 
dioxide than petroleum fuels, biodegrades as quickly as 
sugar, and is less toxic than table salt. Biodiesel fuel is 
free from the aromatics and sulfur found in traditional fuels 
and is one of the few alternative fuels registered with the 
Environmental Protection Agency for sale and distribution.
In February 2009, Cummins announced that B20 
biodiesel blend can be used in its 19- to 78-liter 
high-horsepower engine platforms manufactured after 
January 1, 2008. This approval provides a significant 
expansion of Cummins engine compatibility with B20 
usage, bringing the environmental benefits of using a 
20 percent renewable fuel blend to high-horsepower 
applications in mining, oil and gas, rail, industrial and 
power generation markets.
Cummins high-horsepower engines approved for use 
with B20 biodiesel include the Quantum Series engine 
platforms from the QSK19 to the QSK78, covering a 
wide 506- to 3500-hp range (377 to 2610 kW). Cummins K Series engine platforms from the K19 to 
the K2000E are also approved for use with B20 biodie -
sel across a 450- to 2000-hp range (336 to 1491 kW).
These high-horsepower engines will join Cummins EPA 
Tier 3 and EU Stage IIIA industrial engines already B20-
approved down to the 80-hp (60 kW) QSB3.3. 
Cummins understands the environmental benefits of 
biodiesel and has worked diligently in completing all 
necessary testing and evaluations to ensure approval 
of B20 usage in our engines. This enables us to offer 
guidance and information to our customers on the 
proper use of biodiesel in Cummins engines. For further 
information, a question-and-answer document is avail -
able on everytime.cummins.com.
Cummins has pledged to continue its efforts to ensure that 
future products will be compatible with biodiesel fuels and 
will continue to participate in industry efforts to develop 
consistent quality throughout the biodiesel industry.Cummins and Biodiesel Fuels
1949The “Bubblenose” tractor with cab-over-engine played a major role in establishing 
Freightliner as a recognized truck manufacturer. With a compact 225 hp HR600 
Cummins, very short cab length and much use of lightweight aluminium, the 
innovative tractor enabled heavier and bulkier loads to be carried.
Enviroment & Safety | 49Cummins Filtration and the Environment
As the global leader in providing filtration, coolant 
and chemical technology for diesel and gas-powered 
equipment worldwide, Cummins Filtration takes its 
environmental responsibility seriously.
With more than 525 active global patents for innovative 
technology, Cummins Filtration continues to provide 
environmental leadership by designing products for 
the future that extend service life, lower emissions and 
eliminate harmful contaminants. Cummins Filtration 
products continually meet or exceed global emis -
sions regulations, reduce disposal issues and support 
extended maintenance.
To achieve these results, Cummins Filtration offers an 
integrated system approach for equipment mainte -
nance with environmentally friendly product choices for 
all major engine systems. This stable of green products 
includes the following state-of-the-art technologies:User-Friendly Filter
The User-Friendly filter was the winner of Cummins 
first Design for Sustainability award in 2007. The filter 
is made of composite material and has significantly 
less environmental impact than previous steel models. 
The user-friendly filter requires a third less in material 
cost and is easier for customers to install and service. 
Volatile organic compounds are reduced because the 
filter does not need to be painted, its reformulated 
paper media does not require curing and the use of 
plastisol adhesive is avoided. 
Crankcase Ventilation Filtration
Cummins Filtration’s crankcase ventilation filtration  
products provide world-class aerosol filtration per -
formance, as rewarded by the 2008 Frost & Sullivan 
Award for Product Innovation. Cummins Filtration 
technologies enable very clean Open Crankcase 
Ventilation systems, protecting both humans and the 
environment. Crankcase blow-by aerosol emissions to 
the atmosphere are reduced by more than 90 percent.  
Liquid oil drip is reduced by 99 percent – eliminating oil 
dripping onto roads, crops, bodies of water, garages 
and driveways – among many benefits.
San Luis Potosi (Mexico) Cummins employees 
recycled 39,000 containers in one month to 
celebrate Earth Day in 2008.50 | Enviroment & SafetyAs with most companies in our 
industry, the largest part of our 
carbon footprint comes from energy 
use—chiefly the “indirect GHG” our 
electric utilities emit for the power we 
use, followed by our “direct GHG” 
from combusted fuels like natural gas 
for heating, then by “fugitive gases” 
directly released in manufacturing. 
Potent GHGs from fugitive gases 
were eliminated through several 
projects stemming from our baseline 
work. Reducing Cummins’ carbon 
footprint further is fundamentally 
about driving energy efficiency.Cummins Official 2005 GHG 
Baseline by Source
Electricity (indirect GHG)  . . . . 59%
Stationary combustion  
(direct GHG)  . . . . . . . . . . 22%
Fugitive Gases (process GHG) . .15%
Mobile sources (owned auto/air)  . . 3%
Other  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1%The mountain chart shows how 
rapidly the structured approach taken 
by the Energy Efficiency Team has 
enabled improvements. One hundred 
fourteen energy efficiency projects 
have been implemented, with another 
32 in process by the end of 2008. 
More than 181,000 metric tons 
of GHG are now being eliminated 
annually. A $20 million investment is 
returning approximately $13 million 
in annual energy and maintenance 
savings. Cummins is on target to 
meet its voluntary commitment to the 
Climate Leaders program.Reducing Greenhouse Gases by the Ton 
GHG Improvement from Energy Efﬁciency Projects (2006–2008)
 114 capital projects implemented
 32 in process 
 Reduction of 181,392 tCO2e annually
   (Status as of December 15, 2008)
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2007Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2008Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
200645,000
40,00035,00030,000
25,000
20,00015,00010,000
5,000 CBS
 DBU
 CES
 FSBU CFBU
 CTT
 PGBU
 EBUTons CO2 Equivalent
EPA base year is 2005
January 2006 is start of Cummins 
improvement commitmentEnergy Efﬁciency
Team establishedStrategic fund begins
seeding projectsCummins Facility Improvement
Team establishedEnviroment & Safety | 51ES Compleat™ Glycerin Premix Long-
Life Antifreeze/Coolant
The Fleetguard ES Compleat is an innovative heavy 
duty engine antifreeze/coolant that uses glycerin 
instead of traditional ethylene glycol (EG) or propylene 
glycol (PG). Glycerin is derived from renewable sources 
and is the primary byproduct of the biodiesel manufac -
turing process.
Oil and Fuel Modules with Incinerable 
Replacement Cartridges
For more than 10 years, Cummins Filtration has 
partnered with our OEM customers to create oil and 
fuel modules for heavy-duty applications. Originally, the 
modules were 100 percent metal, and the replacement 
cartridges were complex with multiple metal pieces. 
Today’s modules contain less metal and continue to 
progress toward increased sustainability.
Nanofiber Media
Engineers from Cummins Filtration in 2008 received 
the prestigious Diploma of Recognition from the 
International Federation of Automotive Engineering 
Societies (FISITA) for their research paper on the 
company’s innovative Direct Flow engine air filter with 
nanofiber filter media. The role of fine, more efficient 
engine filtration has increased due to new engine 
exhaust particulate and evaporative emission regula -
tions, as well as the introduction of new international 
test standards that focus on the sizes of dust particulate 
that penetrate the filter. Engine lifetime, fuel consump -
tion and engine emissions greatly depend on the design 
of all engine filtration systems. To meet these expecta -
tions, filter development lately has focused on reduced 
volume filters and ultrafine, nanofiber filter media.  Direct Flow
Direct Flow is a new technology that offers greater filtration 
performance in a smaller, more versatile size. Direct Flow 
optimizes the utilization of the filtration media and creates 
a direct air flow path into the engine providing higher 
performance than conventional product designs. The 
Direct Flow filter system uses recycled material in up to 
two-thirds of the system components with some compo -
nents being constructed entirely from recycled materials. 
The filter contains no metal and is fully incinerable.
Filter in Filter
Filter in filter significantly reduces weight, volume of 
material. For more than ten years, Cummins Filtration 
has partnered with our OEM customers to create oil 
and fuel modules for heavy-duty applications.
Diesel Exhaust Fluid
Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF), known as AdBlue in 
Europe, is a urea-based chemical reactant designed 
specifically for use in SCR systems to reduce NOx 
emissions. Cummins Fleetguard’s DEF is API certified 
and meets ISO22241 specifications for purity and 
composition, with environmentally-friendly features such 
as:  non-toxic and non-polluting, non-flammable and 
non-hazardous.52 | Enviroment & SafetySince the 1970s, Cummins on-highway engines have 
been regulated by the EPA and similar regulatory 
agencies around the world for combustion emissions, 
including NOx, carbon monoxide (CO), hydrocarbons 
(HC) and PM, also known as soot.
Cummins works closely with regulatory bodies to 
seek aggressive, but technologically feasible, emission 
reductions that also allow us to continue to make prod -
ucts that meet the exacting needs of our customers.
When compared to emissions from unregulated engines 
— i.e. before EPA standards became effective in 1973 
— today’s on-highway diesel engines emit 90 percent 
less PM and nearly 90 percent less NOx. Cummins 
and other engine-makers are required by the end of 
the decade to further reduce PM and NOx to levels 99 
percent lower than the unregulated levels.Off-highway engines produced by Cummins also 
are subject to stringent emission standards. While 
the combustion process for off-highway engines is 
fundamentally the same as for on-highway engines, 
the emission control strategies are not interchange -
able because of the broad horsepower range, unique 
applications and the wide variety of duty cycles typical 
of off-highway products.
Between 1995 and 2006, off-highway engine emissions 
for NOx and PM have been reduced by 80 percent 
and 85 percent, respectively. And from 2010 to 2014, 
off-highway engines will be controlled to essentially the 
same level of emissions as their on-highway engine 
counterparts. By 2014, NOx and PM emissions from 
off-highway engines will be 98 percent lower than they 
were in 1995.Emission Regulations and Cummins Product Goals
2006 2007 2008Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions 
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) in 1,000 TonsTotal Automotive Useful Life Emissions 
Hydrocaarbons (HC) in 1,000 Tons
800736
339
210395
275
2006 2007 2008170
5070
383
2
2006 2007
EPA Allowed
Cummins Produced2008Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions 
Particulate Matter (PM) in 1,000 TonsTotal Automotive Useful Life Emissions Carbon Monoxide (CO) in 1,000 Tons
34
29
2 1 2 1
2006 2007 20085,269
378 2,242
492,946
78Enviroment & Safety | 53The charts on these and subsequent pages depict 
Cummins’ commitment to the environment by dem -
onstrating that the Company’s engines often exceed 
U.S. emissions standards. The on-road charts for North 
America compare the estimated maximum allowable 
emissions by EPA standards versus Cummins’ estimate 
of its engines’ actual emissions for the past three years. 
Estimates are based on the number of engines, both 
heavy-duty and midrange, manufactured in the United 
States for on-highway use per year.
Cummins engines have released far less hydrocarbon and 
carbon monoxide into the environment than the maximum 
allowed by the EPA. And even by the tough NOx and PM 
measures, Cummins has been under the standards.The figures in the non-road charts are based on the 
number of midrange, heavy-duty and high-horsepower 
engines produced to EPA standards. As with Cummins 
on-road engines, these non-road engines release 
far less HC and CO into the environment than the 
maximum allowed by regulatory agencies. Likewise, 
NOx and PM actual emission levels are under the 
applicable standards.
Cummins also participates in a regulatory program 
called Averaging, Banking and Trading (ABT). This 
program allows emission credits to be generated and 
“banked” by a company whose products generate 
emissions that are lower than the regulated level. These 
banked credits may be applied to other engines whose 
emissions are higher than the standard. However, some 
credits are discounted by a certain percentage depend -
ing on engine type and ABT program rules. As a result 
of this discounting process, a portion of the emissions 
credits go unused by the Company, and are thus an 
additional benefit to the environment.2006 2007 2008Total Non-road Useful Life Emissions 
Nitrogen Oxides + Hydrocarbons 
(NOx + HC) in 1,000 Tons
3683295034725375092006 2007
EPA Allowed
Cummins Produced2008Total Non-road Useful Life Emissions 
Particulate Matter (PM) in 1,000 Tons
17
1023
1425
15
2006 2007 2008Total Non-road Useful Life Emissions 
Carbon Monoxide (CO) in 1,000 Tons
274
78383
148433
16354 | Enviroment & Safety 
Recycling Cummins Products
“Reduce, reuse, recycle.” That’s a key slogan for 
environmentalists everywhere. At Cummins, we have 
an additional term. “ReCon” is the name Cummins 
uses for its line of genuine, factory-remanufactured 
products. Remanufacturing provides customers the 
option of same-as-new performance at a value price, 
especially important during challenging economic times. 
ReCon helps customers and Cummins alike manage 
the business cycle, and once again in the 2008-2009 
recessionary period, sales of ReCon parts were up 
compared to new.
Remanufacturing also provides benefits for the environ -
ment by using about 85 percent less energy compared 
to the mining, refining, melting and machining of new 
material. Cummins reuses or recycles over 50 million 
pounds of material each year. The energy savings from 
this reclamation is equivalent to the consumption of about 
10,000 homes in the U.S. Since most of that energy is 
fossil-fuel based, the savings also add up to greenhouse 
gas (GHG) reductions of about 200 million pounds.
The benefits of remanufacturing are increasingly being rec -
ognized world-wide. Cummins has established two new 
remanufacturing locations in India, and signed a contract 
to provide remanufacturing services to the holder of one 
of only 14 trial licenses for remanufacturing granted by the 
Chinese National Development and Reform Commission. 
These new locations will provide the benefits of remanu -
facturing to these growing economies.Going Beyond Requirements  
in Other Countries 
Cummins meets or exceeds emission regulations in 
every country that it operates. In South Africa, Cummins 
sells EPA certified 1999 engines to meet their latest 
regulations. Similarly, in Taiwan, emissions regulations 
require EPA 2004 or Euro IV standards, which Cummins 
sells both types of certified engines. In Mexico, the 
emission regulations recently enacted require EPA 2004 
certified engines, Cummins has been very active in their 
latest rulemaking and has been selling EPA 2004 certi -
fied engines years prior to their latest requirements.
Cummins has worked closely with the Chinese govern -
ment and OEMs to introduce “green engines” to China. 
Cummins is committed to bringing in advanced, low-emis -
sion, fuel efficient and environmentally friendly products 
to Chinese customers concurrently with international 
markets, including the United States and Europe.
In 2008, Cummins’ joint ventures in China, Dongfeng 
Cummins and Xi’an Cummins developed Euro IV diesel 
engines in advance of the Chinese Government’s 
requirements for production in 2009. In 2009, 
Cummins’ latest joint venture with Beijing Foton will 
begin production of the all new ISF 2.8L and ISF 3.8L 
Euro IV engines in Beijing. In 2009, Cummin’s Wuhan 
based Technical Centre began development projects 
with all of our joint ventures in China to develop clean 
diesel engines to meet the stringent Euro V emission 
standards worldwide.
In addition to local production of Euro IV engines, 
Cummins is the first foreign diesel maker to invest in 
the local manufacturing of key sub-systems, includ -
ing turbochargers, filtration products, fuel systems 
2006 2007
Midrange (3–9 liters)
Heavy-Duty (10–15 liters)High Horsepower (19–78 liters)2008On-Highway Diesel Engine Volumes (thousands)
217
85
175
39
108
60
2006 2007 2008Non-road Diesel Engine Volumes  (thousands)
43
5
0
42
9
2
44
9
2Enviroment & Safety | 55and after-treatment products. This initiative supports 
our Chinese partners and OEM customers as they 
work to meet future emission standards, including 
Euro IV and above. In 2008, Cummins Fuel Systems 
opened a new manufacturing plant in Wuhan to locally 
produce fuel pumps and injectors. Cummins Emission 
Solutions also began production of advanced after-
treatment systems at our new plant in Beijing to 
support China’s drive to low emission, fuel efficient 
and environmentally friendly products.
In 2009, Cummins also proactively cooperated with 
Chinese OEMs to develop and produce hybrid vehicles 
for the China market. Cummins Power Generation 
provided combined heat and power system (CHP) 
to help Chinese customers, such as Beijing South 
Railway Station, to achieve their energy saving targets. 
Cummins also continued our efforts to reduce our 
carbon footprint across China by working with all of 
our facilities in China to introduce a series of measures 
designed to minimize our energy consumption.
Seeking Counsel in Developing 
Products and Meeting Standards
In developing products to meet various standards, as 
well as the demands of its customers, Cummins seeks 
advice and counsel from its Science and Technology 
Advisory Council and the Safety, Environment and 
Technology Committee of its Board of Directors.
Cummins Science and Technology Advisory Council, 
formed in 1993, has given the Company access to 
some of the country’s leading scientific thinkers and 
policymakers from the worlds of academia, industry 
and government.
The Cummins Science and Technology Advisory Council 
members regularly discuss the future of the internal 
combustion engine and the use of alternative power 
sources. As an example, Cummins already has pursued 
alternative energy options, including clean natural gas 
bus engines and power generation units that harness 
waste gases such as methane available in landfills.The Cummins Science and Technology Advisory 
Council members are:
Frank S. Bates
Chairman, Chemical Engineering and Materials Science 
Department, University of Minnesota.
Dr. Harold Brown, Counselor
Center for Strategic and International Studies, retired 
Cummins Director, former Secretary of Defense and 
President of CalTech.
Phil Sharp
President of Resource for the Future, Washington, D.C.
Dr. Sophie V. Vandebroek
Chief Technical Officer and President, Xerox Innovation 
Group for Xerox Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut. 
Fellow of the Institute of Electrical & Electronics 
Engineers and served as an elected member on the 
IEEE Administrative Committee. Fulbright Fellow and a 
Fellow of the Belgian-American Educational Foundation.
Dr. Gerald L. Wilson
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Mechanical 
Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
formerly Dean of Engineering at MIT.
The Safety, Environment and Technology Committee of 
the Cummins Board of Directors advises top management 
and the technical leadership of Cummins regarding:
n Technology strategy and planning
n Significant research and technology projects and tools
n Major new product programs
n  Environmental policy and strategy within the public 
arena as well as maintaining an internal action plan.
Its membership includes the following Directors: Alexis M. 
Herman, Georgia R. Nelson, William I. Miller and Carl Ware.
The committee also encourages collaboration 
between Cummins and the external technical and 
environmental community and reviews the technology 
plans of the Company.56 | Enviroment & SafetyMaking Work Spaces into Green Spaces 
Facilities as Performance Indicators
Doing our part to promote a healthy environment goes 
beyond producing the cleanest possible products. 
Cummins facilities have a critical role to play in helping 
create a safe and sustainable environment for today 
and in the future. 
Minimizing workplace injuries, reducing facility emissions 
and waste and conserving natural resources are funda -
mental to Cummins’ commitment to the communities in 
which we live and work. These efforts also have a direct 
positive impact on the profitability of our business.
Cummins’ approach to facilities management acknowl -
edges the importance of protecting the environment 
and includes our formal commitment to the long-term 
sustainability of our operations. As we continue to meet 
our regulatory obligations, we also will work to identify 
opportunities for improvement and reduce the environ -
mental impact of our operations.
Safety and Environmental Council
Cummins Corporate Health, Safety and Environmental 
(HSE) Council was established in 2003 and continues 
to strengthen today. The HSE Council brings together 
manufacturing, safety and environmental leaders from 
across the Company’s business units and corporate 
staff. The Council meets quarterly with the objective 
of building a best-in-class safety and environmental 
organization across Cummins worldwide entities.
The Council meeting is the forum for developing HSE 
policies and strategic initiatives and is where company-
wide objectives and targets are established. Among the 
Council’s initiatives in support of performance improve -
ment objectives are a focus on facility registration to 
the Enterprise Environmental and Safety Management 
systems, building good HSE practices into the 
Company’s growth strategy and organizational and 
individual functional excellence development.Health, Safety and Environmental 
Management Systems
Cummins’ safety and environmental policy drives the 
global Health, Safety and Environmental Management 
System (HSEMS), which provides the platform for 
setting key safety and environmental objectives and 
ongoing monitoring of our HSE performance. Cummins 
has incorporated the elements of the ISO 14001 
Standard and the OHSAS 18001 Safety Guidelines into 
the two systems and has committed to registration by 
an independent third-party. 
Cummins has taken a multi-site “enterprise” approach 
to registration of these management systems, rather 
than a customary individual site registration. This has 
allowed us to leverage the following opportunities:
n  Deployment of common Cummins health, safety and 
environmental standards across global locations, to 
drive improvement beyond compliance
n  Incorporation of a centrally managed model, with 
improved visibility of performance across all entities
n  Development of a flexible management system within 
a framework that facilitates timely implementation and 
best practice sharing
n  Successful integration of the safety and environmental 
systems at the Corporate level paving the way for 
integration efficiencies at the entity level Enviroment & Safety | 57Site Reg. Year Location Business Unit
Cummins - Daventry Engine Plant 2001 UK Engine
Cummins Filtration – Quimper 2001 France Components
Cummins Turbo Technologies – Huddersfield 2001 UK Components
Cummins - Darlington Engine Plant 2002 UK Engine
Cummins Emission Solutions – Mineral Point 2001 USA Components
Cummins - SLP 2002 Mexico Engine
Cummins Emission Solutions – Viroqua 2002 USA Components
Cummins Emission Solutions – Arcadia 2002 USA Components
Cummins Emission Solutions – Wautoma 2002 USA Components
Cummins Industrial Center/Cummins Komatsu Engine Co. 2002 USA Engine
Cummins Generator Technologies – Stamford 2002 UK Power Generation
Cummins Turbo Technologies – Charleston Leeds Ave 2002 USA Components
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Co. Ltd/Cummins Xiangfan Machinery Co. Ltd 2002 China Engine
Tata Cummins Limited 2003 India Engine
 Fuel Systems - Columbus 2003 USA Components
Cummins Brazil Ltd. 2003 Brazil Engine
Cummins - Midrange Engine Plant 2003 USA Engine
Cummins Filtration – Lake Mills 2003 USA Components
Cummins Emission Solutions – Black River Falls 2003 USA ComponentsThe Enterprise Environmental Management System 
EMS) was first registered by an independent third-party 
registrar in 2004, when a total of four sites participated. 
By the end of 2008, Cummins had 47 facilities and the 
corporate entity registered to the ISO 14001 Standard. 
Our projected growth is for 58 facilities successfully 
registered by end of 2009. We have also set a corpo -
rate objective to include all of our in-scope facilities into 
the EMS enterprise by end of 2011.Success Story: Cummins Enterprise  
Environmental Management System
Cummins Enterprise Environmental Management System  
(ISO 14001 Standards and Corporate Requirements)80
604020
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010–11Certiﬁed EMS Enterprise Sites58 | Enviroment & SafetyEnterprise Environmental Management System Registrations  (continued)
Site Reg. Year Location Business Unit
Cummins - Corporate  2003 Worldwide Corp
Cummins Filtration – Bloomer 2003 USA Components
Cummins Filtration– Neillsville 2003 USA Components
Cummins Turbo Technologies - Dewas 2004 India Components
Cummins Filtration - Findlay 2004 USA Components
Cummins Turbo Technologies – Wuxi 2004 China Components
Rocky Mount Engine Plant 2004 USA Engine
Cummins - Jamestown Engine Plant 2004 USA Engine
Cummins Power Generation – Fridley 2004 USA Power Generation
Fuel Systems – Juárez/El Paso 2004 USA Engine
Cummins Power Generationeration - Kent 2005 UK Power Generation
Fleetguard - Shanghai 2005 China Components
Cummins Generator Technologies - Mexico 2005 Mexico Power Generation
Diesel ReCon - Memphis 2005 USA Engine
Cummins Filtration - Brazil 2005 Brazil Components
Cummins Filtration – Cookeville 2006 USA Components
Cummins Columbus Engine Plant 2006 USA Engine
Cummins Power Generation - Beijing 2007 China Power Generation
Cummins Power Generation - Singapore 2007 Singapore Power Generation
Cummins Generator Technologies - Ahmednagar 2007 India Power Generation
Cummins Generator Technologies - Wuxi 2007 China Power Generation
Cummins India Ltd 2007 India Engine
Cummins Sales and Service 2007 India Distribution
1950After competing in the Indy 500, Cummins 
No.61 Green Hornet went on to become 
the world’s fastest diesel at 165 mph on the 
Bonneville Salt Flats in Utah. The 340 hp 
racing version of the JBS-600 engine with 
supercharging and new PT fuel injection set 
diesel speed records over 1, 5 and 10 miles. 
Enviroment & Safety | 59Cummins Generator Technologies 
India’s new facility in Ranjangaon is 
the first truly “green” manufactur -
ing plant in Cummins. The facility 
incorporates many of the sustainable 
green building features and practices 
as defined by The Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design 
(LEED) Green Building Rating System. 
Over the first 10 years of operation, 
the facility is expected to save over 
14 million kWh of electricity, and 
avoid over 14,500 tons of carbon 
dioxide emissions. This is the equiva -
lent of permanently removing 274 
cars from the road. Not only energy 
efficient, the Ranjangaon plant is also 
economically sustainable. After an 
initial investment of $125,000 for the 
environmental features, energy costs 
will be reduced by approximately 
$300,000 per year, plus $10,000 
in annual water savings. The plant 
produces alternators and will employ 
approximately 700 people.Some of the environmental highlights of 
the CGTI – Ranjangaon plant include:  
Energy and Atmosphere
Wind tower provides natural ventila -
tion, reducing ambient temperatures 
for the shop, and reduced heat load 
for office air conditioning.
Energy efficient T5 fluorescent 
lighting for the shop and compact 
fluorescent light (CFLs) for the office.
Efficient use of natural daylight.
Automated building management 
system to control pump operation, 
and localized occupancy sensors 
and dimmers to adjust lighting.Water Efficiency
High efficiency fixtures and toilets  
in restrooms and locker facilities.
Rain water runoff is collected, filtered 
and allowed to percolate, recharging 
ground water levels.
Treated “gray water” from canteen and 
sinks used for landscape irrigation.
Materials and Resources
Use of high efficiency glass for 
windows and skylights.
Recycled content – use of fly ash in 
bricks for building construction.
Low VOC-content paints, coatings, 
adhesives, and sealants.
CFC-free air conditioning.
Vermiculture – use of worms to decom -
pose canteen food waste and leaves.
Sustainable Site
Buildings designed to fit the hilly 
site, minimizing the need for 
excavation and filling.
Landscaping designed to reduce 
irrigation need by 50 percent, and to 
control storm water runoff.
Tree plantations offset carbon  
emissions from plant operations; 
over 3,000 planned.
Outdoor lighting designed to mini -
mize nighttime light pollution.Green Generator Technologies Plant Opens In India
Landscaping on the canteen roof of the Ranjangaon facility.60 | Enviroment & SafetyEnterprise Environmental Management System Registrations (continued)
Site Reg. Year Location Business Unit
Cummins Emission Solutions - Daman 2008 India Components
Cummins Power Generation - Beijing 2007 China Power Generation
Cummins Technical Center - Columbus 2008 USA Engine
Cummins UK - Wellingborough 2008 UK Distribution
Generator Technologies - Romania 2008 Romania Power Generation
Cummins Filtration - Shanghai 2008 China Components
East Asia R&D - Wuhan 2008 China Engine
Cummins Turbo Technologies - Palmetto 2008 USA Components
Chongqing Cummins Engine Co. 2008 China EngineCummins earned a prestigious 2008 
Automotive News PACE (Premier 
Automotive Suppliers’ Contribution 
to Excellence) Award for innovation 
demonstrated by the 6.7L turbo 
diesel engine. The PACE Awards 
ceremony honors superior innova -
tion, technological advancement 
and business performance among 
automotive suppliers.   
The 6.7L Dodge Ram Turbo Diesel 
engine, which debuted in January 
2007, is available in the Dodge 
Ram 2500 and 3500 models. The 
engine is the strongest, cleanest, 
quietest heavy-duty diesel pickup 
truck engine available on the market 
and is the first to meet the 2010 
EPA emissions regulations in all 50 
states. Cummins achieves this by 
using a NOx Adsorber Catalyst – a 
breakthrough technology designed 
and integrated by Cummins.As noted by Joe Loughrey, then 
President and Chief Operating 
Officer of Cummins, as he accepted 
the award, “This is a significant 
product innovation and a terrific 
honor for Cummins to be recog -
nized. We share this recognition 
with our customer, Chrysler, who collaborated with us in developing 
a common vision for a product that 
would deliver on our commitment 
to exceptional customer satisfaction 
while ensuring our contribution to 
a cleaner environment.” Loughrey 
also acknowledged several partners 
who significantly contributed to 
Cummins success in the product 
including the Department of Energy, 
the Environmental Protection Agency 
and several supplier partners.
The PACE Award is viewed as 
the industry symbol of innovation. 
Cummins earned Automotive News 
PACE Award winner status after an 
extensive review by an independent 
panel of judges, a comprehensive 
written application and a site visit.Cummins 6.7 Liter Turbo Diesel Earns PACE Award
Enviroment & Safety | 61Auditor Certification Program
The program was launched to support Cummins’ 
efforts to develop more consistently robust auditing 
capabilities and develop employee functional excel -
lence. Audit trainees are called upon to participate with 
HSE Council leaders in site audits that are conducted 
to support new HSEMS registrations and satisfy 
Cummins’ annual internal audit requirement. Corporate 
sponsors provide lead auditor training throughout the 
year and through successful participation as a team 
member in several audits and following a performance 
evaluation as a lead auditor, audit trainees become 
certified as lead auditors.
Not only has this initiative bolstered subject matter 
expertise and reduced Cummins’ dependence on 
contractors, it has substantially facilitated the sharing of 
best practices. Auditors observe first-hand the effec -
tive practices in place at the audited site and bring a 
fresh perspective by sharing their own winning health, 
safety and environmental management strategies. 
Lead auditors are recognized at the Cummins annual 
HSE Awards Banquet. Selected auditors with both 
safety and environmental responsibilities and expertise 
are being certified within both disciplines to support 
the integration of these systems and the continued 
development of a HSEMS.  
Auditor Certification Program
 Total Number  
 of People
Trained Auditors 91
Auditors Participating in Program 46
Certified Environmental Lead Auditors 18
Certified Safety Lead Auditors 6Environmental Objectives and Targets
Each year, the HSE Council sets objectives and targets 
for the organization to ensure the continual improve -
ment of Cummins’ environmental performance. The 
business units supplement these with initiatives of 
special importance and interest to their respective 
businesses. The Enterprise EMS is the mechanism for 
driving these improvements, which can take any form 
that supports the Company’s efforts to address our 
environmental policy commitments. 
For example, the Engine Business has reaped signifi -
cant environmental benefits from its focus on paint 
reformulations. Also, all businesses were engaged in 
the work necessary to develop our greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHG) inventory and the setting of an emis -
sions reduction goal as part of an overall objective to 
reduce our carbon footprint.
Sites worldwide have completed innovative envi -
ronmental projects – such as reducing packaging 
waste, recycling solvents and coolants and capturing 
rain water for re-use. Recent objectives and targets 
included improvements of the tools and processes that 
support collection and reporting of key environmental 
performance indicators, auditor training and other 
functional excellence initiatives. Addressing water 
conservation and emphasis on pollution prevention 
opportunities will continue to be focus areas as well.
In 2009, Cummins will supplement its efforts to reduce 
energy and the associated greenhouse gas emissions 
by deeming energy use a “significant aspect”, or risk, 
within the EMS, to apply to all sites worldwide. This 
tactic focuses all of the assets within the EMS to bear 
on this most critical environmental challenge. In addi -
tion, supplemental corporate objectives, targets and 
procedural requirements will be developed to support 
the Company’s spotlight on energy efficiency initiatives.62 | Enviroment & SafetyOperations
For perspective on our areas of environmental focus at 
the facility level,a general description of the manufactur -
ing operations by business unit follows:  
Engine:  Within the Cummins Engine Business, 
manufacturing facilities employees conduct product 
design, research and development, engine manufactur -
ing and engine and component reconditioning. Engine 
assembly facilities perform engine block and compo -
nent machining, assembly, painting, parts washing and 
engine performance testing. Product design and engine 
testing are the primary operations in the research 
and development technical centers where production 
processes are limited.
Engine testing is conducted in stationary test stands 
or cells, where product performance information is 
measured as engines run at various duty cycles.Test cells also are used for certification testing to ensure 
products meet emissions requirements. Rebuild/
reconditioning facilities perform engine tear-down and 
reassembly, using alkaline parts washing processes.
Components:  The Components Group includes four 
separate businesses; Cummins Filtration, Cummins Fuel 
Systems, Cummins Turbo Technologies and Cummins 
Emission Solutions. Facility operations primarily involve 
filtration and exhaust product design, research and 
development, filter, and exhaust component assembly 
and product distribution and warehousing.
Key operations conducted among the Components 
Group divisions include filter, fuel systems, turbo -
charger and exhaust aftertreatment component 
assembly, metal stamping, tube bending and compo -
nent machining, welding, product assembly, painting 
and performance testing.  
Enviroment & Safety | 63Power Generation:  Cummins Power Generation 
Business facility operations primarily involve product 
design, research and development, alternator manu -
facturing, assembly of generator sets, switchgear and 
controls and product testing. Alternator manufacturing 
facilities perform component machining, lamination 
stamping, rotor and stator winding, resin impregnation 
and alternator assembly.
Assembly facilities perform housing fabrication, genset 
assembly, switchgear and controls assembly, painting, 
alkaline bath parts washing and genset performance 
testing. Product design and performance testing are 
conducted in the research and development technical 
centers. Genset testing is conducted in stationary test 
stands/cells, where product performance information is 
measured while gensets are run at various duty cycles. 
Test cells also are used for certification testing to ensure 
products meet emissions requirements.  Distribution:  Cummins distribution business provides 
parts and service for Cummins products worldwide. 
Distributor facilities generate used oils as their key 
waste stream. Selected sites are equipped with engine 
and chassis dynamometers and consequently, diesel 
fuel is consumed on-site.
Waste Streams
The primary waste streams generated at Cummins 
manufacturing facilities include waste paint and associated 
materials, paint filters, wastewater sludge and filter cake, 
machine coolant, used oil and resins. Metals and metal 
parts that cannot be reconditioned for re-use in Cummins 
products are salvaged for off-site recycling, as are used 
oils. Other waste streams include filter media and resins.
At most facilities, machine coolant is recycled until inef -
fective and ultimately added to the wastewater stream for 
pretreatment prior to discharge to public treatment works.
1955The split-level coach liners of the 1950s introduced long distance, luxury travel 
across the U.S. featuring characteristic scenic view windows. The 43-seater 
Beck DH with Cummins 300 hp HRBS-600 was one of the most powerful 
models built, with some exported to fleets in Cuba and Mexico.
64 | Enviroment & SafetyCummins has collected key environmental sustainability 
measures from our facilities for many years, focusing 
on operations with the greatest potential environmental 
impact. Measures were originally implemented and 
reported internally in an effort to identify environmental 
performance improvement opportunities. Data has sub -
sequently been aggregated for inclusion in Cummins’ 
Sustainability Report and other reporting initiatives.
Because of Cummins’ participation in the EPA’s Climate 
Leaders Program and its comprehensive GHG inventory 
scope requirements, the number of sites taking part in 
data gathering has broadened significantly, including all 
facilities under Cummins operational control irrespec -
tive of size or function. Cummins has implemented a 
new data reporting process and tools in 2009.  The 
tools support our data quality objectives as well as 
offer enhanced reporting functionality. As of 2009, all of 
Cummins controlled sites worldwide and selected joint 
ventures will be solicited to provide data for all appli -
cable sustainability indicators. For the purposes of this 
report, measures data have been compiled from two 
different data sets, which are indicated in the following 
sections of this report.Sustainability metrics, including water use, recycled 
materials, commodities and wastes, as well as fuels 
and electrical power usage included were derived from 
89 manufacturing and large non-manufacturing sites. 
These include several large joint venture facilities that 
are not under Cummins’ operational control.
Fuels, electricity and other GHG sources and emissions 
were collected from all facilities where Cummins main -
tains operational control and therefore are in scope of 
our Climate Leaders GHG reduction commitment. The 
present population of sites in scope of Climate Leaders 
is 262 facilities. Greenhouse gas related emissions from 
Cummins’ unconsolidated joint venture businesses are 
not included in this report.Expanding our Environmental MeasuresIndiana Department of Environmental 
Management (IDEM) Commissioner 
Thomas W. Easterly and Assistant 
Commissioner Rick Bossingham 
visited Cummins Columbus 
Midrange Engine Plant in April 2008 
to welcome the company as a new 
member of Indiana’s Environmental 
Stewardship Program (ESP).
To become an ESP member, a busi -
ness must minimize environmental 
impacts in current and planned 
operations. It must maintain an 
exemplary compliance record, certify that it has adopted and implemented 
an approved environmental man -
agement system, and commit to 
specific measures for continued 
improvement. Cummins’ Columbus 
Midrange Engine Plant, which 
assembles diesel engines for the 
Dodge Ram truck, has worked hard 
to reduce its environmental impact.
To earn its award, the Company has 
reduced volatile organic compound 
emissions by switching from a 
solvent-based paint to a water-
based paint. Indiana wins when companies use sound business 
practices to demonstrate their core 
value of environmental protection.
Because of their exemplary 
compliance record and continual 
improvement, ESP members qualify 
for expedited permit review, flexibility 
in permitting, reduced reporting 
frequencies and coordination of 
compliance inspections. To maintain 
ESP membership, companies must 
report their environmental initiatives 
every year and reapply for ESP 
membership every three years.Cummins Columbus Midrange Engine Plant Recognized  
for Environmental LeadershipEnviroment & Safety | 65Materials
 
Category 2005 2006 2007 2008
Materials Other Than Water 
Diesel Fuel (Gallons) 8,630,568 9,464,041 9,800,863 10,586,012
Natural Gas (CF) 1,375,473,756 1,367,998,690 1,317,827,834 1,404,869,934
Propane (CF) 15,026,716 16,909,296 20,078,733 22,511,199
Electricity (kwh) 716,158,774 726,505,056 756,521,445 726,542,254
Oil (Gallons) 1,834,800 2,408,670 2,291,912 1,971,857
Paint (Gallons) 324,346 503,410 444,654 462,345
Coolant (Gallons) 920,145 1,431,659 977,616 1,095,795
Solvent (Gallons) 109,931 161,694 221,193 194,728
 
Total Water Use
Total Water Use (Gallons) 1,247,753,509 2,037,442,344 1,305,642,376 1,397,229,924
Significant Discharges to Water (Gallons) 1,013,470,629 1,799,838,718 1,068,979,069 1,199,712,010
 
Total Amount of Waste By Type 
Industrial Waste (Metric Tons) 2,678 2,756 2542 2,478
General Refuse (Metric Tons) 10,757 13,257 14,110 16,107
 
Recycled Materials 
Iron (Metric Tons) 112,374 115,324 113,126 105,000
Aluminum (Metric Tons) 1,015 876 671 1,127
Copper & Brass (Metric Tons) 331 551 1,394 674
Cardboard (Metric Tons) 7,514 8,446 9,799 10,994
Paper (Metric Tons) 286 359 453 434
Wood (Metric Tons) 11,160 16,482 21,993 17,879
Plastic (Metric Tons) 296 398 758 910
Reused Liquid Wastes (Gallons) 2,817,773 1,089,614 3,321,242 1,422,466
Number of Reporting Sites - Energy/Fuels 250 254 258 262
Number of Reporting Sites - All Other Metrics 38 54 75 89
 
Other Significant Direct Air Emissions (Metric Tons)        
NOx 2,535 2,771 2,857 3,084
CO 560 610 628 678
PM10 169 186 192 208
VOC 849 2,538 846 862
Number of Reporting Sites - NOx, CO and PM10 250 254 258 262
Number of Reporting Sites - VOCs 38 54 75 8966 | Enviroment & SafetyCummins materials data collection includes process 
compounds commonly used in the Company’s 
manufacturing processes. In addition, monthly data is 
reported and compiled for wastes, recycled materials, 
utilities and other key measures. 
Cummins has increased the population of facilities 
reporting sustainability metrics substantially over the 
last several years. The growing number of reporters 
and better measurement processes are responsible 
for the increases for most non-energy metrics in 2006. 
Increases in quantities of recycled materials generally 
reflect improvements in supporting processes worldwide. Totals for recycled paper, plastic and wood are under -
stated because at several locations load weights are 
unavailable. Significant discharges to water also are 
estimated because these are not directly measured at 
all worldwide locations.
Reused liquid wastes represent estimated quantities 
of industrial process wastes reclaimed for re-use or 
otherwise returned to process as feedstock in cement 
kilns or blended fuels. These include oil, coolants, 
solvents and thinners and residual fluids primarily from 
painting processes.
Cummins continues to implement efforts supporting 
water conservation, waste minimization and other envi -
ronmental improvements. Strong recycling programs 
are common in Cummins manufacturing facilities and 
other locations around the world. Although the increas -
ing number of reporting sites allows the company to 
develop a more comprehensive understanding of its 
environmental footprint, the varying population makes 
meaningful comparisons year to year difficult.The Dow Jones Sustainability Index 
(DJSI) named Cummins Inc. as one of 
the world’s top 11 leaders in sustain -
ability among industrial companies in 
its 2008 sustainability review.
DJSI named Cummins to two of its 
multi-sector indices: the World index 
for the fourth year in row (the top 10 percent of the world’s largest 2,500 
companies in corporate sustainabil -
ity) and the North American index for 
the second year in a row.
In its annual review, the DJSI analyzes 
companies in three broad categories - 
economic, social, and environment, 
with a higher weighting given to environmental performance in indus -
trial companies such as Cummins.
Specific issues considered include 
corporate governance, risk man -
agement, customer relationship 
management, climate change strat -
egy, supply chain standards, labor 
practices, corporate citizenship and 
philanthropy, employee development, 
product stewardship, environmental 
management systems, and environ -
mental policy and procedures and 
the scope of their application.Cummins Again Recognized as Sustainability Leader  
on Global, Regional Levels
Enviroment & Safety | 67Energy and Fuels
Category 2005 2006 2007 2008
Direct (Gigajoules)        
Fuel Oil/Diesel 1,247,485 1,367,957 1,416,642 1,530,130
Natural Gas 1,523,761 1,515,480 1,459,901 1,556,327
Propane 39,428 44,367 52,683 59,066
 
Indirect        
Electricity (Gigajoules) 2,578,172 2,615,418 2,723,477 2,615,552
Electricity (KwH) 716,158,774 726,505,056 756,521,445 726,542,254
Greenhouse Gas List
Cummins’ inventory includes CO2, CH4, N2O emissions from electricity and fuel consumption, HFC emissions from 
refrigerant use, and CO2 and SF6 emissions from manufacturing process use. Cummins has no emissions of PFCs. As 
of June 2008, SF6 is no longer used at Cummins.  
Emissions Type Emissions Sources
Stationary Combustion Sources  Industrial Boilers (Natural Gas & Diesel Fuel)
 Industrial Furnaces (Natural Gas & Diesel Fuel)
 Engine Test Cells (Natural Gas, Diesel Fuel, Gasoline and Propane)
 Generator Sets (Diesel Fuel)
 Process ovens/heating units (Natural Gas & Diesel Fuel)
 Electricity generating systems at customer sites
Mobile Sources  Company owned/leased vehicles (Diesel Fuel & Gasoline)
 Forklift Vehicles (Propane and Diesel Fuel)
 Corporate Aviation (Jet Fuel)
Process/Fugitive Emissions  Manufacturing process - *SF6
 Welding operations - CO2
 Air conditioning equipment - HFCs
* This process was discontinued in June 2008
1958With twin-radiator V shaped nose 
for extra cooling and huge sand tires, 
Kenworth’s Super 953 was known 
as the Desert King. Available with 
Cummins NT 380 hp, the rugged truck 
was at the forefront of oilfield exploration 
work in remote areas of the Middle East 
and North Africa, with many still in service.
68 | Enviroment & SafetyEmission Sources
 
Direct Sources
Electricity use is the most significant source of GHG 
emissions associated with Cummins’ operations. In 
addition, as an organization that manufactures and 
assembles diesel engines and related components, a 
substantial portion of Cummins’ overall GHG emissions 
are a direct result of the engine testing operations 
related to production and research and development. 
Many of the Cummins facilities in the various busi -
nesses employ processes that use natural gas-fired or 
electric industrial ovens or other heat treatments and 
related processes.
The Energy Solutions Business (ESB) is a business 
within Cummins Power Generation that sells natural 
gas and biogas-fueled generator sets as well as 
cogeneration and other power plant equipment. ESB 
commercializes these sets through sales, design and 
construction of turnkey power plant solutions and, in 
some cases, operates the plant after construction and 
maintains some equity ownership in the project.
Cummins measures the fuel consumption and emis -
sions in support of the Climate Leaders initiative where 
the Company manages the complete operations and 
maintenance services. 
Historically, fugitive GHG emissions were generated 
at the Findlay, Ohio, facility through the process of 
injection of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) into sealed gas 
bags, which were sold as product. This process was 
discontinued in mid-2008. Other fugitive emissions are 
associated with use of CO2 gas as a welding shield 
systems and refrigerant loss typical through use of 
heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems.
Indirect Sources
The inventory includes consumption of electricity, which 
is used by all facilities. It also includes purchased steam 
consumption from one facility in China and purchased 
hot water consumption from one facility in Romania.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Calculations
Indirect emissions calculations from electricity use 
take into account the carbon intensity of the fuel and 
technology used to generate the power. A determina -
tion of the electricity emissions in the U.S. was made 
using emission factors from the EPA eGRID emissions 
database. All other greenhouse gas emissions are 
calculated using emission quantification methodolo -
gies taken from the Climate Leaders Greenhouse Gas 
Inventory Protocol: Core Module Guidance documents 
for the appropriate emissions sources. These factors 
are updated by reviewing any revisions to Climate 
Leaders guidance documents.Enviroment & Safety | 69U.S. and Non U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory - CO2eq. (metric tons) 
 
U.S. Emissions  2005 2006 2007 2008
Direct        
Stationary Combustion Sources 108,529 113,582 106,092 113,157
Mobile Combustion Sources 12,315 13,575 13,620 12,722
Process/Fugitive 117,404 127,645 162,030 166,726
Total Direct Emissions 238,248 254,803 281,742 292,605
 
Indirect Emissions        
Purchased and Used Electricity 348,465 351,405 348,276 325,223
Total indirect Emissions 348,465 351,405 348,276 325,223
Total U.S. Emissions 586,713 606,207 630,018 617,828
Non- U.S. Emissions  2005 2006 2007 2008
Direct        
Stationary Combustion Sources 57,164 60,478 69,155 75,252
Mobile Combustion Sources 14,815 14,815 14,815 17,015
Process/Fugitive 2,921 3,002 3,099 3,155
Total Direct Emissions 74,900 78,294 87,069 95,422
 
Indirect Emissions        
Purchased and Used Electricity 94,060 94,029 121,457 120,607
Purchased and Used Steam 447 447 436 461
Purchased and Used Hot Water 531 531 531 480
Total indirect Emissions 95,037 95,006 122,424 121,548
Total Non-U.S. Emissions 169,937 173,301 209,493 216,971Cummins Emission Solutions-Mineral 
Point became part of the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency’s 
ENERGY STAR Low Carbon 
Information Technology Campaign 
in 2008. The 
Campaign 
encourages 
businesses to 
enable the power 
management, or 
“sleep mode,” on 
computers and 
monitors. Placing a desktop computer in sleep 
mode might seem like the smallest 
of steps, but computers use energy, 
and modern businesses use a lot 
of computers. By activating power 
management features on all its moni -
tors and computers, CES Mineral 
Point is managing to save 65,965 
kilowatt-hours of energy annually. 
Over three years, this will save the 
facility $16,365 in power bills. And that’s only the start. Over the 
same term, nearly 152 tons of CO2 
will be kept from the atmosphere 
through those small steps. That’s like 
removing more than 25 cars from 
the road, which would produce that 
amount of CO2. Or, conversely, it is 
like planting more than 531 acres 
of trees, where the CO2 would be 
sequestered in organic form. 
CES Mineral Point is the first 
Cummins facility participating in this 
program, but not the last.Small Steps Lead to a Smaller Carbon Footprint70 | Enviroment & SafetyTotal U.S. and Non- U.S. Emissions CO2e  2005 2006 2007 2008 
Direct        
Stationary Combustion Sources 165,693 174,060 175,247 188,409
Mobile Combustion Sources 27,129 28,390 28,435 29,738
Process/Fugitive 120,325 130,647 165,129 169,881
Total Direct Emissions 313,148 333,097 368,811 388,028
 
Indirect Emissions        
Purchased and Used Electricity 442,525 445,434 469,733 445,830
Purchased and Used Steam 447 447 436 461
Purchased and Used Hot Water 531 531 531 480
Total indirect Emissions 443,503 446,412 470,700 446,771
Total U.S. and Non-U.S. Emissions 756,650 779,508 839,511 834,799
Total GHG Emissions in metric tons CO2e        
Emissions Source        
Electricity 442,525 445,434 469,733 445,830
Stationary Combustion 165,693 174,060 175,247 188,409
Fugitive SF6, CO2 120,325 130,647 165,129 169,881
Mobile Sources, other 28,107 29,367 29,402 30,679
Total 756,650 779,508 839,511 834,799
Normalized GHG Emission Goal Tracking (2005–2008 Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Normalized to Revenue)
     ‘05-’08 %  
 2005 2006 2007 2008 change
Total Emissions (metric tons CO2-equivalent) 778,464 810,255 879,743 878,921 10.4%
Gross revenue ($millions) $9,917.80 $11,362.40 $13,048.00 $14,341.91 44.6%
Inflation-adjusted revenue (constant 2005 $millions) $9,917.80 $11,074.60 $12,361.20 $13,254.60 33.6%
Normalized emissions (tCO2e per 2005 $millions) 78.49 70.39 67.91 62.94 -17.5%
 
Greenhouse gas emissions declined by less than 1% from 2007 to 2008 and increased 10.4% compared to the base 
year 2005. Sales increased on average 13% year over year in the same timeframe – equating to an overall in sales 
increase of 44.6%. After an adjustment for inflation to 2005 dollars, Cummins has achieved a normalized reduction of 
17.5% over the 2005-2008 timeframe. GHG Emissions by 
Country (2008)GHG Emissions by Business Unit (2008)
 46 Engine  
 29 Filtration
 8 Power Generation
 5 Distribution
 5 Fuel Systems
 3 Turbo Technologies
 2 Emissions Solutions
 2 Corporate
   (by percentage) 74 United States
 8 United Kingdom
 8 India
 2 Mexico
 2 China
 1 Other Europe
 4 Other
   (by percentage)
Enviroment & Safety | 71Normalized GHG Emissions Change 
from 2005 to 2007 (%)
This graph depicts Cummins progress against its stated 
reduction goal of 25 percent normalized to sales, and 
shows that the Company is on the path to achieving 
its goal. This goal tracking graph will be updated and 
revisited as the Company implements the many energy 
efficiency projects that have been identified. 
Ozone Depleting Substances
In 1995, Cummins implemented a policy that stationary 
equipment using chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) would no 
longer be purchased by Cummins. Equipment already in 
place would be considered for conversion or replacement 
depending on its age and repair costs. As a result of this 
policy, Cummins has replaced an estimated 60 percent of 
its equipment containing ozone-depleting substances.
Interactions with Regulatory Agencies 
On November 14, 2007, an inspection of the Cummins 
Filtration facility in Cookeville, Tennessee, was con -
ducted by the Tennessee Department of Environment 
and Conservation (TDEC). As a result of the inspection, 
a Notice of Violation (NOV) was issued by TDEC on 
January 3, 2008, for the following violations:
n  EPA Method 24 analysis was not used when eleven 
new coatings were included in the Title V report; 
n  EPA method 24 certification sheets were not available 
during the site inspection; and n  Volatile organic chemicals were calculated using 
information from the Material Safety Data Sheets, 
instead of the EPA Method 24 analysis.
n  The facility immediately implemented the required 
corrective measures and a $1,000 fine was assessed 
by TDEC.
On July 23, 2008, the Tennessee Department of 
Environment and Conservation (TDEC) issued a Notice 
of Violation (NOV) to the Cummins Filtration facility in 
Cookeville, Tennessee, for an unauthorized wetland 
alteration. TDEC inspected an area located adjacent 
to a facility retention pond, between the front entrance 
and the adjacent Highway 111. A tree in this area had 
been uprooted during a recent storm, so the facility 
removed the fallen tree and restored the vegetation in 
the immediate area. The facility promptly implemented 
all of the corrective actions requested by TDEC and 
received a Notice of Compliance on August 6, 2008. 
No fines were assessed.
As a result of an inspection conducted by the Iowa 
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR), the Cummins 
Filtration facility in Lake Mills, Iowa received a Notice 
of Violation (NOV) on August 20, 2008. The facility had 
made physical changes at the site without first submit -
ting the required air permit related documents to the 
IDNR. Upon receipt of the NOV, the facility promptly 
prepared and submitted all required documents to the 
IDNR. In response, the IDNR accepted these modifica -
tions and issued a new air permit that included the 
physical changes that had taken place at the facility. No 
fines were assessed.
On July 21, 2008, the Cummins Industrial Center 
in Seymour, Indiana, received a Notice of Violation 
(NOV) from the City of Seymour (Indiana). The NOV 
was issued to the facility for a failure to reapply for a 
wastewater discharge permit prior to the expiration of 
the facility’s current wastewater discharge permit. The 
facility promptly completed the renewal application and 
submitted it to the City of Seymour. The wastewater 
discharge permit was renewed by the City of Seymour 
and no fines were assessed.40
302010
0
-10-20-30
2005
Adjusted 
RevenueEmissions Normalized EmissionsNormalized Emissions Goal2006 2007 2008 2009 201072 | Enviroment & SafetyOn December 3, 2008, the Cummins Industrial Center 
in Seymour, Indiana, received a Notice of Violation 
(NOV) from the Indiana Department of Environmental 
Management (IDEM). During intermittent periods in 
2007, the facility neglected to conduct paint filter 
inspections in a manner that was consistent with the 
requirements contained in the Title V Air Permit. As well, 
the permit deviations were not appropriately catalogued 
and communicated to IDEM in the Annual Compliance 
Certification. The facility implemented the required cor -
rective measures and no fines were assessed by IDEM.Environmental Clean Up Efforts
As of 2009, federal and state agencies have noti -
fied us that we have been identified as a Potentially 
Responsible Party under Superfund and similar state 
laws at 19 waste disposal sites. We have established 
accruals that we believe are adequate for our expected 
future liability with respect to those sites. In addition, 
we have four other sites where we are working with 
governmental authorities on remediation projects. The 
costs for these remediation projects are not expected 
to be material.Cummins India Limited Reduces Wastewater Effluents by 90 percent
Cummins India Limited (CIL) recently 
earned a Cummins’ Director’s Award 
for Environment. The CIL improve -
ments came through implementation 
of a Six Sigma project titled; “War 
on Waste” with the first stage aimed 
toward reduction of wastewater 
effluents at the Kothrud plant. The 
plant already had wastewater pollut -
ant discharge limits and an absolute 
limit on the volume of its discharge, 
making wastewater reductions a 
matter of legal compliance as well as 
a good environmental practice. 
The team first mapped out all 
sources of water to the wastewater 
treatment system and installed flow 
meters to measure the influence of 
each area.  Improvement measures 
included the identification and repair 
of leaks, the restriction of run-on 
by surface water, the capture and 
segregation of coolant and modified 
piping configurations. Wastewater effluents have now 
been reduced by nearly 90 percent. 
Contaminant content in the waste -
water was also diminished through 
reductions of oil and coolant in the 
influent and enhanced oil recovery 
in the effluent. Treated effluent is 
now reused to keep the garden and landscaping green on the plant 
property, resulting in zero wastewater 
effluent to the sewer. Because of this 
initiative, the Pollution Control Board 
granted permission for plant expan -
sion and increased production.
Enviroment & Safety | 73Continuous Improvement and Six Sigma
Six Sigma is the key problem-solving tool used by 
Cummins for environmental improvement projects. 
From a facilities perspective, Cummins has imple -
mented a number of projects to address sustainability 
issues, including natural resource conservation and pol -
lution prevention. Both of these have been a continuous 
improvement focus at Cummins for several years.
A task that began as a down-time reduction project at 
the Bloomer, Wisconsin, Filtration Plant managed to 
save energy as it increased productivity. The Bloomer 
Plant uses heaters to cure the urethane on air filters it 
manufactures. Employees were experiencing too much 
down time when heaters went out because it took so 
long for the lines to heat up upon restart. 
A testing team found that different types of heaters, 
controllers, and insulation improved matters sig -
nificantly. The new system, installed on a Panelette 
Line with one of the plant’s worst changeover times, 
reduced wait time upon restart from 105 minutes to just 
25 minutes. And since the new heaters are kept on all 
the time with a constant temperature, we also avoid the 
power surges associated with turning multiple heaters 
on and off all day. In a single project, we reduced time 
on the line by a third of a person, reduced the need for 
overtime, and saved significant amounts of energy. Analysis-Led Design
In analysis-led design, computer simulations replace 
traditional hardware testing, which involves building and 
testing many expensive prototypes. Instead, a “virtual 
engine” is built and then tested in a computer simulation, 
which allows us to look at more designs in a shorter time.
Using analysis-led design on our recent product launches 
has allowed us to increase the number of analysis hours 
by more than 200 percent, while cutting total program 
costs by more than 25 percent. In one engine family alone, 
more than 14,000 hours of testing was avoided – along 
with the prototypes that go along with it.
The process yields better designs faster, at a lower cost 
and with substantial reductions in test cell time and the 
fuel use and its associated emissions.
Verification of Manufacturing Quality
Engine attribute testing requirements have been reduced 
on certain product lines because in-process verification 
allows the identification of potential problems upstream 
of the test cell process. This product quality initiative 
promotes the concept of “Right First Time,” a more 
effective means to test a component and engine system, 
with an associated environmental benefit.Better Operations Use Less Energy
1963Introduced as the world’s biggest crawler 
dozer, the Allis-Chalmers HD-41 was 
powered by a 524 hp V12 Cummins. 
Weighing up to 80 tons with 20 ft wide 
blade and huge rear ripper, the HD-41 
was the predecessor of the super dozer 
class. After years of testing, the dozer 
started production in 1970 and was later 
available under the Fiat-Allis name.
74 | Enviroment & SafetyEnergy Conservation and Cost 
Containment at Cummins Facilities
Cummins’ energy costs are increasing, yet our 
consumption of fossil fuels and electric power has 
represented significantly less than 1 percent of sales 
for the past several years. We employ several methods 
to contain costs. We try to minimize the financial 
impact of these increases by informed and competitive 
buying strategies in areas where we have manufactur -
ing operations. In addition, our Energy Efficiency and 
Facilities teams have implemented numerous projects 
that save energy and costs. 
With the forward contract purchases of utilities in 
selected regions, we are able to postpone or lessen the 
impact of rising energy costs on our facilities worldwide.
Where markets allow, as in the U.K., Cummins teams 
engage in lengthy and detailed negotiations to secure 
the most favorable rates for the electricity and natural 
gas we use. They receive market intelligence twice a 
day, monitor the forward price of energy up to three 
years ahead, and gauge shifts in market sentiment that 
point to rising or lowering prices.   
The resulting rate tariffs for electricity can be complex. 
This past year, for example, Cummins in the U.K. 
achieved savings by negotiating a seven-rate, 
Seasonal, Time-of-Day tariff rather than a simple day/
night rate.  All of our energy use in the U.K. is now 
metered on the half-hour. But under this contract, 
savings came to more than $2.8 million, nearly 30 
percent better than the year before. 
Natural gas prices have fallen broadly in line with oil, 
and U.K., facilities have saved more than $875,000 in 
natural gas costs. 
These existing contracts will end in 2010. Cummins 
negotiators are already charting trends and sharpening 
pencils to secure the best possible terms during the 
next round of negotiations. 
1963The U.S. Navy LARC is the most capable amphibious boat built to 
carry cargo or troops from ships to shore. The 5-ton payload LARC-V 
with V8 Cummins 300 hp & 15-ton XV with twin V8s, switch from pro -
peller to 4-wheel drive onshore for steep gradients and 30 mph speed. 
LARCs remain in use with the Navy for emergency flood relief. 
Enviroment & Safety | 75Here are some recent examples of energy and cost 
savings projects done at our facilities.
n  The filtration distribution center in eastern Tennessee 
installed massive low speed fans to equalize tempera -
tures for reduced energy use. The project will result in 
annualized savings of $129,000 and GHG savings of 
413 tons. 
n  The Darlington Engine Plant in the U.K. installed 
high speed doors at Vantec gates to reduce heat 
loss at delivery times, saving $16,000 and 22 tons 
of GHG annually. 
n  Replacing leaking single pane skylights with high 
efficiency double pane at the light-duty diesel engine 
plant in Columbus, Indiana, will save $25,000 and 
144 tons of GHGs annually. Green sources of power include true renewables, 
wind and hydro, but there are other clean and 
efficient types of generation available. Good Quality 
Combined Heat and Power, known as GQCHP, is 
also one of these; Cummins has purchased 63GW 
of such worth around $6.7 million. GQCHP is the 
simultaneous generation of electricity and useful heat 
from a single fuel source. By capturing and reusing 
the heat, and not burning extra fossil fuel, GQCHP 
significantly reduces Carbon Dioxide (CO2) emis -
sions This generation technology is recognized as a 
green source by the U.K. Government which permits 
exemption from the Climate tax normally imposed.An ongoing recycling effort has 
yielded impressive results in two of 
Cummins’ Memphis-based facilities. 
Cummins’ Memphis Distribution 
Center and ReCon plant have gradu -
ally expanded the use of recycled 
corrugated packaging through a 
program initiated several years ago 
by Corporate Indirect Purchasing. 
Both plants finally achieved 100 
percent use of recycled packaging 
supplied by Pratt Industries, saving 
over 50,000 trees a year. In addition to eliminating the 
consumption of new corrugated 
material, landfill space was also 
reduced by approximately 50 
semi-trailer loads. Water that would 
normally have been used to process 
new paper material was reduced by 
almost 12 million gallons, and energy 
savings totaled almost 9 million 
kilowatt hours. 
One practice mandated by the 
Cummins Operating System is to 
treat preferred suppliers as partners. By working closely with Pratt 
Industries, Cummins was able to use 
that partnership to create a cleaner 
environment. Applied Recycling at Memphis Locations
76 | Enviroment & SafetyBy many measures, Cummins does a good job of provid -
ing clean, safe and healthy workplaces for its employees. 
For example, the company-wide incidence rate (IR) in 
2008 was 1.03 – significantly better than the average 
incidence rate of our industry, which was 3.7. We had 31 
sites go the entire year without a single reportable incident. 
Our severity case rate (SCR) of 0.48 was below the target 
of 0.5, while lost work days rate improved by 25% from 
2007. These are positive signs that Cummins takes safety 
seriously and is doing many of the right things. 
In 2008 Cummins began the implementation of a 
Global Driver Safety program. The effort is to elevate 
the Cummins Health and Safety system to best in class 
by extending beyond the bounds of the normal work -
place and demonstrating one of its values of “serving 
and improving the communities in which we live.” The 
Driver Safety program is intended to not only address 
the safety of Cummins employees while driving, but 
to ultimately provide a safer driving environment for 
everyone we share the road with. Road crashes are 
a major cause of injuries and fatalities in every market 
in which we operate and Cummins intends to do its 
part by addressing this important issue through policy, 
standards and education. In-plant mobile equipment safety has been a focus for 
Cummins for several years. The Engine Business Unit 
carved the path for this initiative in 2006 with develop -
ment of the Forklift/Pedestrian safety initiative. Since 
2006, many sites have implemented the initiative, but in 
2008 Cummins Turbo Technologies is leading the way 
to reduce this hazard. 
Cummins reduced the risk of injury by segregating 
people and vehicles, especially in our warehouse 
operations. Actions taken by CTT include:
n  Aggressive training and awareness campaigns, 
n  Segregating vehicles and people, including use of 
physical barriers,
n  Limiting pedestrian access to warehouse locations,
n  Requiring use of high visibility clothing when pedestri -
ans must enter the warehouse, and
n  Eliminating forklift use in the manufacturing operation 
at CTT Wuxi, China.
 “ Since November 2007, we have not had a single 
near hit incident involving a pedestrian walking out 
into an aisle way in the path of a forklift truck. We 
also have plans to continue making improvements” 
said Sue Manning, CTT Worldwide Safety Functional 
Excellence Leader. Providing a Safe Working Environment
2006 2005 2004 2007IR
SCR
2008Incidence and Severity Case Rates
1.75
.71
1.77
.74
1.30
.69
1.15
.56
1.03
.48
2006 2005 2004 2007IR
SCR
2008Incidence and Severity Case Rates
1.75
.71
1.77
.74
1.30
.69
1.15
.56
1.03
.48Enviroment & Safety | 77Cummins also implemented a number of actions and 
process changes across the Company. One example is 
the “Red Flag” process implementation. Sites having the 
worst safety performance metrics and highest risk levels 
are identified as Red Flag sites. Initially, the Red Flag 
sites participate in a safety strategy review session with 
Business Unit and corporate safety leaders, and undergo 
an in-depth safety audit. Progress toward closing gaps in 
the site’s safety system is then closely followed. 
Another improvement in 2008 was initiation of the 
Major Incident and Dangerous Occurrence Reporting 
process. Special criteria for reporting such incidents 
was established and reporting “Call Trees” were created 
for each Business Unit. Incident report communication 
templates were created to enable lessons-learned 
sharing across Cummins globally.
Safety Management System
The Cummins Safety System (CSS) is one way we can 
ensure safety programs like those mentioned above 
become ingrained as a way of working, managing 
and operating at Cummins. Cummins Safety System 
conforms with the Occupational Health and Safety 
Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 specification, an 
international occupational health and safety manage -
ment system. But Cummins goes well beyond its 
requirements. Cummins Safety System is widely 
deployed around the world. As of 2007, a process 
was implemented to enlist an independent third party 
registrar to verify system conformance to the OHSAS 
18001 specifications at selected sites.The following sites are registered to the OHSAS 18001 
specification:
n  Cummins Filtration, Viroqua
n  Cummins Filtration, Shanghai
n  Cummins Turbo Technologies, Dewas
n  Cummins Fuel Systems Juarez, Mexico
n  Cummins Exhaust India Limited, Daman, India
n  Cummins Generator Technologies, SLP , Mexico
n  Cummins Power Generation, Singapore
n  Cummins Parts and Service, SLP , Mexico
n  Cummins Technical Center
n  East Asia Research & Development Center
Participation in the Safety Enterprise fits well with par -
ticipation in the Company’s EMS Enterprise. Cummins 
Exhaust India Limited (CEIL) based in Daman, India, 
developed an integrated heath, safety and environmen -
tal management system. This was the first Cummins 
Enterprise integrated HSE management system to 
be externally approved by Bureau Veritas and recom -
mended for certification. Lisa Roccki, Manufacturing 
Functional Excellence Leader for Filtration, said, “We 
are extremely proud of the team at CEIL Daman for 
achieving this certification.  It shows their commitment 
to safety and environment in their daily work.” Cummins 
Technical Center in Columbus, Indiana was the second 
Cummins site to have an integrated HSEMS. 
78 | Enviroment & SafetyWorld Wide Health, Safety and 
Environmental Workshop
The 2008 World Wide Health, Safety and Environmental 
Workshop was hosted by Cummins Power Generation 
in Fridley, Minnesota. The workshop brought together 
HSE professionals from around the globe for profes -
sional development, networking, benchmarking and 
best practice sharing. Nearly 200 HSE and manufactur -
ing leaders from various Cummins facilities attended, 
representing all Business Units and 16 different 
countries. The event featured exhibitions, training ses -
sions and best practice sharing, with content for both 
the new and experienced Cummins HSE professionals. 
Topics presented included leveraging the Cummins 
Operating System for environmental management, elec -
trical safety, hand safety best practices, and monitoring 
and measuring environmental performance, to name 
a few. “The participants were really energized. I’ve 
received nothing but positive feedback on the week’s 
content and activities,” said Power Generation Business 
HSE Director, Mark Dhennin. “It was an intense week of 
work, but certainly worth all the effort.” Health, Safety and Environmental Awards
In order to recognize outstanding performance, the 
Health, Safety and Environmental Council presents 
awards to those Cummins entities that best demon -
strate excellence in one or both of these areas. Through 
their efforts, these sites are instrumental in helping 
Cummins meet the commitments of the Company 
Vision and Mission. 
The Council evaluated the performance of each entity, 
using the following criteria: 
n  Benefit to environment and safety 
n  Level of management and employee commitment 
n  Economic efficiency
n  Innovation 
n  Ability to serve as a model for use by othersThe Columbus (Indiana) Technical 
Center has introduced a new 
Ergonomics Program, combining 
an ergonomics team, training and a 
muscle soreness clinic to create a 
sustainable and healthy environment 
for our employees. 
The program’s goal is to ensure that 
employees work in an environment 
that allows for maximum productivity 
without compromising health and 
well-being. The program operates 
under the belief that reducing work-
related injuries will result in better 
employee morale and greater job 
satisfaction while reducing lost time.Employees are encouraged to sign 
up for the muscle soreness clinic, 
adhere to some basic ergonomic tips 
and complete an employee comfort 
survey. The ergonomic team works to 
keep employees healthy by improv -
ing work station problems, assisting 
return to work issues, conducting risk 
identification issues and providing 
employee ergonomic education.  The onsite clinic helps employees 
suffering from aches and pains, 
and a licensed physical therapist 
performs screening exams and 
provides advice on self-treatment 
and management of these issues.Tech Center Introduces Ergonomics Program
90˚
Enviroment & Safety | 79The environmental awards focus on projects and initia -
tives that promote sustainability, emissions reductions 
and the conservation of natural resources. Bonus 
points are awarded for site recognition in government 
and nongovernmental organizations’ environmental 
stewardship programs.
Entities are recognized at four distinct levels; Chairman, 
HSE Council, Director and Best Practice. The HSE 
Council also honored three individuals, including facility 
HSE leaders and plant managers, for their personal 
efforts to improve safety or environmental performance.
To recognize achievements in areas where Cummins 
has widened its environmental focus, we have estab -
lished awards for the following categories: Design for 
Environment, Chairman’s Awards for Energy Efficiency, 
Chairman’s Award for Sustainable Building Practices. 
Cummins Mexico Parts and Recon in San Luis Potosí, 
Mexico (Cummins SLP) was awarded the Chairman’s 
Award For Environment in 2008. This is the second time 
the plant project and leadership team have been so 
recognized. The winning project was the result of efforts 
of the Environment and Community Involvement Teams 
for efforts promoting and improving recycling efforts in 
the San Luis Potosi community. To support the plant’s 
“Put Your Batteries On” campaign, Cummins SLP , in 
partnership with community leaders and under contract 
with the regulatory authorities, serve as the recyclable 
materials collection point. Materials, including batteries and used plastic contain -
ers were collected at the plant for recycling, diverting 
these wastes from the landfill and eliminating the poten -
tial pollution associated with their land disposal. An 
estimated 1,000 liters of water will be polluted for each 
battery buried in the ground because of the eventual 
release of the acids and metal pollutants they contain. 
During the two year campaign, SLP ensured that nearly 
20,000 kilograms of batteries were properly managed, 
protecting millions of liters of precious groundwater.
The environmental award winners were:
Chairman
Cummins Mexico Parts and Recon, San Luis Potosí, 
Mexico,  “Get Energized” Campaign
HSE Council
Cummins Filtration Bloomer, WI, “Defect Box” 
Scrap Reduction 
Director
Cummins  India Ltd.,  Parts Washing Chemical Substitution
Cummins Power Generation Kent,  Recycling Program
Cummins Turbo Technologies Dewas, Sludge Drying Bed 
Best Practice
Cummins Brazil Ltda., Pollution Prevention and 
Water Harvesting
Emission Solutions Mineral Point, Low carbon IT
Cummins Turbo Technologies Huddersfield,  
Making Power Down Sustainable  
Chairman’s Award For Sustainable  
Building Practices
Cummins Turbo Technologies, Pithampur India,  
Green Construction Standards using Reused and 
Renewable Materials
Chairman’s Award For Energy Efficiency
Cummins Turbo Technologies, Huddersfield U.K., 
Developing the Systematic Approach to Energy 
Shutdown Management  80 | Enviroment & Safety Cummins Health and Safety 
Recognition Program
Sites are eligible for Health and Safety recognition in three 
performance levels: Chairman’s Award, HSE Council and 
Director’s Award. In addition, awards are given in recogni -
tion of best practices the sites have implemented.
The Corporate Health and Safety 2008 Recognition is 
based on the following criteria:
Chairman’s Award:  To be eligible for this award, a 
site must achieve a maximum Incidence Rate of 0.5, 
maximum Severity Case Rate of 0.15, maximum Lost 
Work Days Rate of 2.0 and a minimum CSS Formal or 
Verification Audit level 3, with 95 points.  
HSE Council’s Award:  To be eligible for this award, 
a site must achieve a maximum Incidence Rate (IR) 
of 0.8, maximum Severity Case Rate (SCR) of 0.3, 
maximum Lost Work Days Rate (LWD) of 4.0 and a 
minimum CSS Formal or Verification Audit level 3, with 
85 points. Sites are exempted from the CSS Audit 
score criteria if they participate in the OHSAS 18001 
Enterprise. 
Director’s Award:  To be eligible for this award, a 
site must achieve a maximum Incidence Rate of 1.0, 
maximum Severity Case Rate of 0.5, maximum Lost 
Work Days Rate of 6.0 and a minimum CSS Formal or 
Verification Audit level 3, with 70 points.  
The Health and Safety Performance Award winners for 
2008 are:
Chairman’s Award 
Cummins Filtration China 
Cummins Turbo Technologies, Dewas
Parts Distribution Center San Luis Potosi
HSE Council’s Award
Cummins Fuel Systems Juarez
Cummins Power Generation Fridley
Cummins Power Generation Singapore
Cummins Technical Center
Wuxi Cummins Turbo Technologies
Director’s Award 
Cummins Emission Solutions Mineral Point
Cummins Filtration Findlay, OH
Cummins Generator Technologies India, Ahmednagar
Cummins Power Generation Brazil
Cummins Turbo Technologies, Brazild
Cummins Turbo Technologies, Palmetto
Darlington Engine Plant
Dongfeng China Engine Company
Rocky Mount Engine Plant
Best Practice winners were selected based on inno -
vation and enthusiasm in driving Health and Safety 
improvements at the site. Enviroment & Safety | 812008 Best Practice Award Winners are:
Cummins Filtration Bloomer  for its “Safety Alert 
Program,” which was developed by the site’s associ -
ates, supervisors and managers to alert others to 
safety and ergonomic problems. Any employee is 
empowered to stop the production line when an unsafe 
act or condition was identified. When a safety alert has 
stopped the line, employees work together to evaluate 
and resolve the issue.  
Cummins Power Generation Fridley  for its “Powered 
Industrial Truck Focus Team” which resulted in increased 
industrial truck issue awareness, project accountability 
and cross-functional support. The site’s logistics depart -
ment recently celebrated a 12 month rolling Incidence 
Rate of 0.00 and led the Fridley site in 2008 with the best 
scores for all four quarters of Safety and 5S audits (Sort, 
Straighten, Sweep, Standardize, Self-discipline).  
Cummins Power Generation Kent  for its “Health and 
Wellness Improvement” project that aimed to create a 
more efficient and effective facility by focusing on the 
health and wellness of employees. Several different 
health and wellness programs were run over the year 
to improve the health and fitness of employees, both 
inside and outside of work. Some examples included 
‘Weight Loss at Work’, ‘Quit Smoking with Smoking 
Cessation’ and ‘On the Ball - Back to Business’ 
classes. Nearly all of the site’s employees participated 
in at least one of the programs.  Cummins Fuel Systems Columbus  for its “Safety 
Football League” project, a competition between the 
site’s departments for safety and housekeeping perfor -
mance. The competition focused on improving safety 
awareness and getting employees more engaged in 
improvement activities on the shop floor. One thousand 
nine safety and housekeeping improvements were 
realized over the course of the competition.  
Parts Distribution Center Mechelen  for its “Rack 
Safety Program” in which an audit format was created 
that established a risk score for each rack location. A 
target was set out to lower the risk scores in all rack 
locations, in order of priority based on risk level. As 
a result, employees report that they feel safer when 
working in these areas. 82 | Diversity & ResponsibilityTreating Others with Dignity and Respect
Cummins 35,000 employees – more than half of 
whom work outside the United States – embody the 
Cummins’ philosophy of diversity. They operate across 
cultures, functions, language barriers and time zones to 
solve the technical and logistical challenges created by 
a worldwide customer base.
They differ in age, gender, race, nationality and 
language, as well as in personality, behavior, sexual 
orientation and religious beliefs. They have different 
skills and abilities, including education, experience and functional capability. Their diversity reflects the countries 
and communities where they live and work, as well as 
the customers and constituencies they serve.
In 2008 and 2009, Cummins updated its Business 
Case for Diversity to strengthen the link between 
diversity and innovation, establish objectives for the 
Company to reach to maximize the benefits of diversity, 
and add depth to its definition of diversity. Here is an 
excerpt from the updated Business Case:Diversity
‘ ‘
Companies that value and manage 
diversity have a distinct advantage 
over those that do not when it comes 
to the bottom line. In fact, the ability 
to manage diversity could well be the 
difference between success and 
failure for businesses, as well as the 
communities in which they operate.”
Tim Solso, Cummins Chairman and CEODiversity & Responsibility | 83As Cummins reaches out to attract and retain global 
customers, the Company acknowledges that a diverse 
workforce is essential to its continued success. How then 
does Cummins define diversity within the corporation?
n  On a personal level, the diversity of an individual is 
defined by his or her cultural and personal differ -
ences, as well as life and professional experiences.
n  At the organization level, diversity is created through 
the distinct personalities and capabilities of each 
individual within the group.
n  Taken together, the diversity of individuals and organi -
zations creates an environment where innovation and 
ideas flourish. 
When Cummins’ businesses enter new markets and 
geographies, they employ people who understand the 
local culture and speak the local language – people  
who share the Company’s values, and in most instances, 
who are an integral part of the local community.
A successful work environment not only includes 
people from different backgrounds, it also welcomes 
and celebrates their differences.
To derive the greatest benefit from diversity, Cummins 
believes it must do the following:
n  Create a workplace population with representation 
that is similar to the markets in which it operates.
n  Demand that the workplace is safe and inclusive for 
all individuals and organizations.
n  Develop a collective behavior that encourages all 
individuals and employees to best use their talents.
n  Capitalize on a diverse workforce to enhance the 
Company’s competitive position in the marketplace.Influencing Factors and Challenges
Five major factors have the potential to significantly 
affect Cummins and the way it does business now and 
in the future. They include:
Globalization:  Cummins has worldwide operations, 
including technical centers, manufacturing operations 
and distribution networks. These far-reaching business 
connections provide the Company with numerous 
opportunities for low-cost sourcing, talent recruitment 
and profitable growth in new markets. At the same time, 
operating in a global environment subjects the Company 
to greater potential risks, ranging from political, eco -
nomic and ethical issues to manufacturing, market and 
people management. To deal with these challenges, 
Cummins must employ a workforce that understands 
complex issues at local levels and can operate success -
fully within the Company’s value system.
Increasing Customer Expectations:  Large global 
customers have more leverage to demand innovative 
products and business solutions at the lowest cost. 
Delivering solutions that delight customers with superior 
performance requires Cummins to have a worldwide 
network of highly skilled people.
Changing Demographics:  Immigration, emigration, 
changing global norms, aging populations and gen -
erational differences, coupled with varying birthrates, 
are driving greater complexity in all regions. Successful 
companies understand how demographics can affect 
their markets and how to effectively leverage diversity to 
create value by attracting and retaining the best talent.
Cummins: The Business Case for Diversity84 | Diversity & ResponsibilityThe Move Toward Sustainability:  Corporations have 
come to understand that operating with an eye toward 
sustainability is vital to the society and our environment. 
A sustainable approach also nourishes a company – 
enabling growth today and in the future. This holistic 
attitude toward doing business requires a company, 
with its employees, to examine every aspect of its 
footprint – from product development to manufactur -
ing practices and facilities operations. The value of a 
sustainable approach is recognized by Cummins’ many 
constituents, especially investors.Increasing Regulations: Regulations provide both a 
business opportunity and a challenge for Cummins. For 
example, the implementation of stricter global emission 
standards and new requirements on fuel economy are 
business opportunities for the Company’s leading tech -
nology. Conversely, laws that affect operational issues 
such as financial reporting, manufacturing emissions 
and safety, require teams that can understand and deal 
with complex regulations around the world. Marian B. Noronha has always 
believed businesses have a responsi -
bility beyond the bottom line.
That’s why the chairman and 
president of Turbocam International 
has bought people out of slavery 
in Nepal, helped build a hospital 
in an impoverished part of India 
and worked with churches in 
the Netherlands to start a water 
company in Ghana.
“We have kind of grown up with 
Cummins,” said Turbocam’s 
Noronha, whose Barrington, N.H.-based business has grown 
from a $6 million company in 2000 
to $60 million in 2008, providing 
Cummins with a variety of machining 
products along the way.
That growth, according to Noronha, 
a devout Christian, has allowed 
Turbocam to both build wealth for 
its employees and perform Christian 
service around the world.
Turbocam was one of five busi -
nesses honored in 2008 as 
Cummins’ first Diverse Suppliers 
of the Year. The companies were 
feted at the Cummins Salute to 
Diversity Dinner in Columbus, Ind., 
on Sept. 29. The winning businesses 
then joined 40 other top women 
and minority-owned suppliers at a 
trade show Sept. 30 at Cummins’ 
Columbus Engine Plant.
The suppliers were chosen for their 
high quality goods and services, 
dedication to efficiency and cost 
cutting, and their commitment to 
public service.The dinner and trade show were 
designed to connect Cummins’ top 
diverse suppliers with other parts 
of the Company in the hope that 
the diverse suppliers would bid on 
additional work with Cummins.
Cummins has set a goal of making 
12 percent of its purchases with 
minority-owned businesses by 2012. 
Currently, the Company is just under 
8 percent with the goal of reaching  
9 percent by the end of 2009.
At Cummins’ 2009 Diversity 
Procurement Summit, a meeting of 
purchasing employees from across 
the Company, Cummins Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer Tim 
Solso noted that his personal work 
plan includes reaching goals for 
supplier diversity.
It can’t be a passive thing,” he said. “It 
has to be active. Everybody has to get 
in the game.”Cummins Salutes Diverse Suppliers
Diversity & Responsibility | 85The Competitive Advantage of Diversity
“ Character, ability and intelligence are not 
concentrated in one sex over the other, nor 
in persons with certain accents, or in certain 
races, or in persons holding degrees from 
some universities over others.
“ When we indulge ourselves in such irrational 
prejudices, we damage ourselves most of  
all and ultimately assure ourselves of failure 
in competition with those more open and 
less biased.”
– J. Irwin Miller, former Cummins Chairman and CEO
Mr. Miller’s words, spoken over 20 years ago, identify 
the reasons why it is critical for Cummins to recruit 
talented employees from a diverse pool of candidates in 
every region and culture where the Company operates. 
Diversity provides Cummins with a competitive advan -
tage in the following areas:
Attracting and retaining the best people
A company that promotes diversity in hiring and stimu -
lates an understanding and appreciation of differences 
will do the following:
n  Attract and retain the best talent
n  Create an inclusive work environment that fosters 
innovation 
n  Promote differing viewpoints to enhance problem 
solving and decision-making
n  Develop a positive reputation in its communities
n  Create an inclusive and safe environmentExceeding customer requirements
Global OEMs benefit from the innovative products 
and services Cummins provides through its worldwide 
operations and diversified workforce. The Company 
is better able to meet and exceed the needs of the 
marketplace because it has manufacturing facilities, 
technical, distribution and service centers along with 
low-cost sourcing opportunities close to where its 
customers do business. 
Nearly all world growth in the future is projected to 
occur in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East 
and Latin America. Cummins understands that the best 
way to grow into new businesses and more geographic 
regions is to have employees and organizations that 
understand the local culture or are part of it.
Innovation  
Cummins relies on key insights from its diverse work -
force to help solve complex engineering and business 
problems; to help reduce costs; and to help create 
differentiated products and services that enable the 
Company to delight its customers.
A greater number of innovative ideas and solutions are 
created from a group of people with different perspec -
tives and backgrounds than from a homogeneous group 
whose members might basically act and think alike. 
Doing the right thing  
A company is only as healthy as the environment and 
communities in which its employees live and work. It is  
in Cummins’ self-interest, not selfish interest, to create an 
environment in which people treat others as they want  
to be treated. An environment in which diversity is cel -
ebrated creates a culture that is aligned with Cummins’ 
core values and enables the company to flourish.86 | Diversity & ResponsibilityIn addition to updating the Business Case, there are many 
other highlights from 2008 and early 2009, including:
n  In 2009, Cummins was named to the list of the Top 50 
companies for diversity by DiversityInc magazine for a 
third consecutive year. The magazine said “Cummins 
demonstrates strong workplace best practices, improv -
ing supplier diversity and continued CEO commitment.”
n  Mandatory comprehensive diversity training for all 
new employees designed exclusively for Cummins. 
Second generation (advanced diversity management 
topics) training is a mandatory part of career develop -
ment for leaders.n  Cummins’ Sondra K. Bolte was named the winner 
of the 2008 William R. Laws Human Rights Award 
by the Columbus, Ind. Human Rights Commission. 
Tim Solso and Joe Loughrey shared the 2009 award.
Solso, Loughrey and Bolte joined a long list of distin -
guished past winners including legendary Cummins 
CEO J. Irwin Miller, the late Richard “Dick” Stoner, 
a former Cummins executive and Indiana University 
trustee, and former U.S. Rep. Lee Hamilton. The 
award honors people who have made a significant 
contribution to improving relationships among all 
people, fighting stereotypes and improving under -
standing in the Columbus area. Other diversity highlights at Cummins
1967Cummins’ horizontal NHH855 set the power standard 
for underfloor “pancake” diesels in the largest ever 
3-axle school buses. With the 220 hp 14-liter flat 
engine installed mid-bus to free up space, the Gillig 
733D was able to increase capacity up to 97 seats.
Diversity & Responsibility | 87n  Cummins leaders shared their career experiences 
with Notre Dame MBA students at the school’s 
second annual Diversity Conference in early 
February 2009. in South Bend, Ind. The conference 
was organized by MBA students in the Mendoza 
College of Business at Notre Dame, which aspires to 
enhance the Notre Dame experience for its students 
by encouraging cultural, professional and spiritual 
diversity, in an atmosphere of academic excellence. 
Cummins was one of the sponsors of the event. 
n  Cummins’ long-standing commitment to use qualified 
Minority Business Enterprises (MBE) suppliers has 
yielded positive results in recent years. In 2008, 
Cummins spent $483.5 million (direct and indirectly 
through subcontracts) with minority-owned suppli -
ers, up from $387.8 million in 2007. Cummins spent 
a total of $571.6 million in diverse spend including 
suppliers owned by Women and Disabled Veterans in 
addition minority-owned suppliers.n  Cummins has received a perfect score on the Human 
Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index every 
since year 2005.
 n  More than 50 Local Diversity Councils (LDCs) 
addressed key diversity related matters at their 
particular Cummins locations. Meanwhile, more 
than 30 Affinity Groups (AGs) representing a specific 
employee demographic have also been instrumental 
in Cummins’ diversity journey, focusing on recruitment, 
retention, career development and business enhance -
ment. Currently, the Company has affinity groups for 
African and African- American employees, South and 
Southeast Asian employees, Chinese, Latino, and 
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender employees; 
new employees; veterans and women employees.Cummins is an ethical company, 
results oriented, with high expecta -
tions for performance, according to 
managers who participated in the 
first-ever survey of the Company’s 
culture in spring 2008.
But those same managers say 
Cummins’ performance management 
system, the frequent absence of 
cross-business unit collaboration and 
Cummins’ U.S.-centric focus are all 
potential barriers to future success.Leaders hope the survey will help the 
Company preserve the best aspects 
of Cummins’ culture and identify 
obstacles to growth so they can be 
addressed quickly.
In the wake of the survey, seven spe -
cific areas of concern were identified, 
and a strategic proposal advanced to 
deal with each one. Strategies range 
from fostering a more collaborative 
atmosphere between business units 
to further empowering employees 
to make decisions on a worldwide basis. Each strategic proposal has 
been assigned an officer who will 
sponsor it and determine the tactics 
necessary to achieve the objectives 
in each case. 
“Managers think Cummins is doing a 
pretty good job,” said Lisa Gutierrez, 
Executive Director of Global Diversity 
at the Company and the leader of 
the project team that conducted the 
survey. “Now, it’s a matter of going 
from good to great.”Cultural Assessment Survey88 | Diversity & Responsibility
Cummins takes a broad-based approach to corporate 
responsibility that is grounded in a stakeholder model 
first articulated nearly 40 years ago by then-Chairman 
J. Irwin Miller. It was Mr. Miller’s belief that businesses 
have a social contract with a full range of stakeholders 
as well as a self interest in helping to create healthy 
communities in which they can grow and prosper.Cummins’ vision of corporate responsibility has 
matured as the Company has grown and become 
more global, but the core beliefs have not changed. 
Fundamentally, Cummins believes that corporate 
responsibility contributes directly to the long-term 
health, growth and profitability of our company.Corporate Responsibility
‘ ‘
While some still argue that 
business has no social 
responsibility, we believe that 
our survival in the very long 
run is as dependent upon 
responsible citizenship in 
our communities and in the 
society, as it is on responsible 
technological, financial and 
production performance.”
Cummins 1972 Annual ReportDiversity & Responsibility | 89
At Cummins, the focus is on the best way to have a 
sustained positive impact given the challenges facing 
our communities. It starts with an emphasis on respon -
sible decision-making and leadership that takes into 
account the potential impact of the Company’s actions 
on all its stakeholders.
Employee involvement also is central to Cummins’ efforts 
to be a responsible corporate citizen. The Company 
actively seeks to engage its 35,000 employees to help 
strengthen the communities in which we work and live.
The Company’s network of more than 150 Community 
Involvement Teams and programs such as Every 
Employee Every Community, (see stories on pages 
92 and 93) offer Cummins the chance to leverage our 
greatest strength – the skills, passion and commitment 
of our employees – to make a meaningful difference in 
communities around the world. 
Philanthropy is the final component to Cummins’ 
corporate responsibility efforts. The Cummins 
Foundation, one of the oldest corporate charities in the 
United States, awarded $4.6 million in grants in 2008. 
Additionally, Cummins provided more than $500,000 in 
direct corporate donations to philanthropic causes in 
2008. (For a profile of the Cummins Foundation, as well 
as a list of grants awarded in 2008, see pages 95-105. Strengthening Cummins’ Commitment 
to Corporate Responsibility
Throughout its 90-year history, Cummins has made 
corporate responsibility a fundamental part of who we 
are and how we do business. In an effort to build on its 
past efforts and better focus the Company’s work on 
the challenges of tomorrow, Cummins raised the profile 
of its corporate responsibility organization in late 2008.
An Executive Vice President, who reports directly to the 
Chief Executive Officer, took charge of the Corporate 
Responsibility organization that drives Cummins’ work 
in this area around the world. One of the first challenges 
tackled by the organization was to articulate Cummins’ 
vision for corporate responsibility through the creation 
of a “business case,” which defines corporate responsi -
bility at Cummins as:
n  Evaluating the effect of our business decisions and 
practices on a wide variety of stakeholders and 
recognizing our responsibility to each one.
n  Seeking to establish a higher standard of corporate 
citizenship by always acting ethically and with 
integrity, and pursuing and applying “best practices” 
to create a cleaner, safer and healthier environment.
n  Seeking to eliminate barriers to success by using our 
values, talents and resources to drive improvement in 
the communities in which we operate, as well as the 
broader world.
n  Creating sustainable wealth for all stakeholders.90 | Diversity & ResponsibilityCreating sustainable wealth  
for all stakeholders 
In order to accomplish these goals in an increasingly 
complex world, Cummins has committed to improving 
its efforts in four specific areas:
1.  Improving our global engagement.  More than half 
of Cummins’ employees work outside the U.S. and 
international sales account for more than 50 percent 
of the Company’s revenues. We have Community 
Involvement Teams around the globe. The large 
majority of our philanthropic giving, however, 
has been directed to organizations in the U.S. 
Strengthening our processes so that the Company’s 
charitable giving better mirrors Cummins’ employee 
and business base has become a priority. 
2.  Providing greater focus to philanthropy worldwide.  
In order to allow our giving to have a maximum 
impact on the communities in which we operate, 
Cummins has decided to focus its philanthropic 
efforts in three areas that were determined after 
soliciting input from hundreds of employees around 
the world. They are:
n  Environment – Ensuring that everything we do leads 
to a cleaner, healthier and safer environment is part of 
Cummins’ corporate mission. Cummins has long been 
a leader in creating technology that reduces harmful air 
emissions, and our employees have experience – and 
a passion for – reducing the environmental impact of 
our products and facilities. We intend to leverage that 
knowledge and commitment to improve the environ -
ment in our communities worldwide.
n  Education – From helping strengthen the basic skills 
necessary for individual success to providing training 
for tomorrow’s generation of advanced manufacturing 
employees, Cummins has a role to play in improving 
the quality and alignment of educational systems in 
our communities.  
1973Built in Canada, the Pacific Ultra P12 6x6 was one of the strongest  ever tow 
tractors with 500 or 800 hp Cummins. A fleet in South Africa would couple  
4 Ultras with 1 more Ultra as rear pusher to make a huge towing convoy 
with over 3000 hp and gross weight up to 860 tons.
Diversity & Responsibility | 91n  Social Justice - Ensuring economic and educational 
opportunities for those marginalized by poverty 
or discrimination has long been a mainstay of 
Cummins’ corporate responsibility work. 
3.  Increasing leadership responsibility.  Creating a 
culture that values corporate responsibility begins 
with setting clear expectations for leaders across 
the Company. Cummins is committed to establish -
ing basic concepts that define effective, responsible 
leaders, including: decision-making that engages all 
key stakeholders; encouraging community involve -
ment; maintaining the highest standards for ethics 
and integrity; and acting as positive examples in 
their communities.4.  Incorporating corporate responsibility in the 
Company’s strategies.  It is in Cummins’ self-
interest to help create strong and growing markets 
for our products, as well as healthy communities in 
which to operate. As such, we need to expand our 
work to make corporate responsibility as much a part 
of the Cummins “DNA” as creating great products or 
providing world-class customer service. 
Additionally, creating a great place to work is central to our 
ongoing efforts to attract and retain the very best employ -
ees. Our employees consistently tell us that they value 
being able to work for a company that acts responsibly. At 
the same time, motivated and engaged employees are a 
vital resource in efforts to improve our communities. Cummins and the Wagholi Orphanage
The Wagholi Orphanage began more 
than two decades ago as a simple 
residence on the outskirts of Pune. 
It was occupied by one kind woman 
and her son, who sheltered about a 
half dozen children from the streets. 
Today the orphanage houses and 
educates more than 550 homeless 
children, many of whom are physically 
or mentally disabled. The government of India funds 145 of these children. 
The rest are supported by donations 
and a lot of compassion. 
The Engineering Community 
Involvement Team (CIT) of Cummins 
India Limited maintains a close 
relationship with the Wagholi 
Orphanage, contributing a share of 
the time and money required to keep 
it going. In addition to its regular 
support, the team contributed a 
“special event” in 2008.
Diwali, the annual Festival of Lights, 
is celebrated throughout India on 
the first new moon after October 13. 
Most Wagholi orphans are sent to 
celebrate the national holiday with 
temporary families, but some 50 
children without families got a taste of the festival from the CIT. On Oct. 
22, Engineering Vice President Mike 
Lambert led a celebration beginning 
with a prayer for Saraswati (Goddess 
of Knowledge) and Sai (God of 
Peace). The day was then filled with 
competitions as the children made 
drawings, wish cards, and diyas—
cotton-like string wicks in small clay 
pots filled with coconut oil—to signify 
victory of good over evil within an 
individual. Winners received treats; all 
received sweets and clothing parcels. 
Orphanage girls performed a 
traditional Indian dance by way of 
a thank-you, and each volunteer 
received a thank-you card fashioned 
by a child. The celebration may 
become an annual CIT tradition.
92 | Diversity & ResponsibilityUnleashing the Power of  
Cummins Employees
Our employees are Cummins’ best resource and they 
are central to our efforts to improve the communities 
in which we live and work. We are working to create 
several mechanisms to educate our employees on 
Cummins’ vision of corporate responsibility and provide 
them with the tools and resources necessary to make a 
difference, including:
n  Introducing employees to the concepts of corporate 
responsibility and community involvement as part of 
their orientation program when they join Cummins.
n  Expanding the Company’s donation matching 
program beyond the United States to better leverage 
employees’ charitable giving in all parts of the world.
n  Better supporting and training our Community 
Involvement Teams (CIT) so they can become even 
more effective in serving our communities. This effort 
includes making it even easier for all workers to partici -
pate in our Every Employee Every Community program 
and providing more community grants to support CIT 
efforts that are aligned with our focus areas.
n  Increased use of Six Sigma tools – both at Cummins 
and increasingly with our local partners – to drive 
improvements across our communities. 
Community Involvement Teams 
Community Involvement Teams (CIT) are employee-led 
groups that represent the diversity of the workforce 
and all levels of management. There are more than 
150 Community Involvement Teams working to solve 
community problems. 
Community Involvement Teams have the responsibility 
of developing an annual plan, organizing volunteer 
activities, responding to community requests for dona -
tions and developing proposals for funding from The 
Cummins Foundation to enhance their involvement in 
their communities. Here are some recent examples of 
CIT involvement around the globe:
n  The J. Irwin Miller Community Center Sewing Shop, 
a CIT project organized in Sao Paulo, Brazil, opened 
in May 2008. The Center provides homemakers with 
training in sewing techniques, product development, 
marketing, product quality, and management. For 
many, it is their first job opportunity. The Sewing Shop 
has started making uniforms for Cummins employees. 
n  A CIT in Fridley, Minnesota, arranged for Power 
Generation engineers to modify toys for the Courage 
Center for children with disabilities. Certain toys 
require physical ability to activate by pressing a 
button to make it sing, dance, drive, or move. The 
engineers adapted such toys by placing a switch jack 
into each item allowing an adapted switch, operable 
by disabled children, to be plugged into the toys. 
n  Employees of Cummins Filtration South Africa, in 
partnership with the Pietermaritzburg & District 
Community Chest, installed fencing and planted two 
gardens for families in need. Employees also donated 
refrigerators, stoves, toasters, kettles and cooking 
utensils to residents of the Shongweni community. 
The Shongweni community was established by 
Habitat for Humanity to benefit households providing 
shelter to children in crisis due to HIV and AIDS.Diversity & Responsibility | 93Every Employee Every Community
Started in 2005 as a way to celebrate Cummins’ 
selection as the “top corporate citizen” by Business 
Ethics magazine, Cummins’ Every Employee Every 
Community (EEEC) initiative has grown into an integral 
part of the Company’s community involvement efforts.
EEEC allows employees to give back to their communi -
ties by volunteering on Company time. Each Cummins 
site around the world has the flexibility to schedule 
community service projects according to local needs, 
their facility and employee work schedules. Projects 
may involve cleaning a schoolyard, planting a garden, or 
sorting packaged goods at a local food bank. What all 
have in common is that they make the community better. 
More than 14,700 employees contributed 52,894 hours 
of community service in 2008 — a 60 percent increase 
in the number of volunteers over 2007, and a 40 
percent increase in the number of hours volunteered.
VolunteerMatch
Thanks to VolunteerMatch, the growing list of volun -
teer opportunities available to Cummins employees 
can now be communicated and tracked with ease. 
VolunteerMatch, launched in 2008, is a global, web-
based volunteer management system connecting 
Cummins employees with volunteer opportunities in 
their local communities.Employees can search for opportunities by ZIP code 
(U.S.) or by country (non-U.S.). They can select an 
interest area, including anything from animals to educa -
tion and literacy. VolunteerMatch also allows Cummins 
to track employee participation and evaluate our 
contributions in a more data-driven way. 
United Way Matching Program 
One of the most powerful community building tools 
Cummins has at its disposal is the United Way match -
ing program funded by the Cummins Foundation. 
Under the program, the Foundation provides a dollar-
for-dollar match for all employee contributions to United 
Way fund drives in United States, effectively doubling 
the impact of our employee giving.
For the 2009 campaign, the Cummins Foundation 
provided approximately $2 million in matching funds 
to United Way organizations in regions where we 
have operations, making Cummins the largest sup -
porter of United Way in a number of regions, including 
Columbus, IN; Jamestown, NY and Rocky Mount, NC. 
We also are currently exploring the best way to create 
programs similar to the United Way match in countries 
outside the U.S. to help our employees in those loca -
tions leverage their charitable giving to improve their 
communities.
94 | Diversity & ResponsibilityCorporate Donations
Corporate direct donations provide a means for 
Cummins to participate in community development 
and events that are more appropriately funded by the 
Company than the Foundation. These activities include 
memberships, sponsorships, dinners or other events. In 2008 Cummins charitable contributions were $11 million.  
Company donations to all of Cummins foundations 
were $6.1 million and direct donations accounted for 
$4.9 million. Of the direct donations, $587,960 were  
in support of our international communities.
Action for Blind People Darlington, England Sports & Leisure Activities for Blind School $ 35,287
Artistic Senses Juarez, Mexico Transportation Support for Handicapped Children $ 10,000
Bethel Ranch Training Center Beijing, China Sustainable Farm for Blind Orphan Foster Home $ 50,500
Brazil Health Clinic Sao Paulo, Brazil Expand the Health Clinic $ 30,000
Brazil Sewing Machine Shop Set-up Sao Paulo, Brazil Neighborhood Women’s Sewing Machine Shop $ 35,000
Children’s House - Detskiye Domiki Moscow, Russia Mini-van to Take Children to Medical Appointments $ 20,000
Chongqing Cummins Hope Primary School Chongqing, China Computer Access for Students $ 25,000
The Club of the Third Age Juarez, Mexico Creation of a Ceramics Shop for Senior Citizens $ 12,185
Daventry Community Association Daventry, England Ashby Road Community Center Heating System $ 27,654
Den Anker Mechelen, Belgium Educational Excursion for Disabled Children $ 25,000
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Co. Dongfeng, China Computers, Desks, Chairs - Primary Schools $ 50,000
Global Village of Beijing Shanghai, China Environmental Protection Education & Activities $ 22,700
Habitat for Humanity Singapore Housebuilding Project $ 25,000
Lions Club International Chongqing, China Computer Room - Heyuan Zijing Yirong Primary School  $ 25,000
Lions Club International Shenyang, China Computer Room - Bo Zhengou Primary School $ 22,000
Lovecoal Seoul, Korea Purchase Stoves for Heating for Indigent Families $ 25,000
Masakhane Creche Pietermartzburg, SA Build a Child Care Centre $ 25,000
Right to Play Thailand Sport and Play Program for Children and Youth $ 35,334
Royal School for Deaf Children Margate Kent, England Monkshill Farm - Outdoor / Farm Classses $ 25,000
Safe Anchor Trust Huddersfield, England Purchase Wheel Chair Lift for Canal Boat $ 25,000
Worldvision - China Kunming, China Home for Street Children/Migrant Children’ s Chorus Project  $ 17,300
Zimbabwe Maulana Primary School Zimbabwe, Africa Safe Drinking Water $ 20,000
Total   $ 587,960
Diversity & Responsibility | 95Formed in 1954, the Cummins Foundation is one of the 
oldest corporate charities in the United States and is an 
integral part of the Company’s efforts to strengthen the 
communities in which it operates. Cummins’ Executive 
Vice President for Corporate Responsibility also serves 
as the Chief Executive Officer of the Foundation, provid -
ing further alignment between the Company’s charitable 
giving and its broad corporate responsibility work.
The Foundation, which is funded solely by Cummins 
Inc., focuses its financial support on nonprofit orga -
nizations whose missions are consistent with the 
Company’s global priorities- education, the environ -
ment and social justice in the communities where we 
have business interests as well as efforts supported 
by Cummins employees. In 2008, the Cummins Foundation awarded $4.6 million in new grants (and 
paid approximately $5.4 million), including $1.8 million 
in United Way matching grants in regions where 
Cummins employees live and work and $1 million in 
grants to projects nominated by Cummins Community 
Involvement Teams around the world.
While the majority of Cummins Foundation funding 
historically has been made to organizations in the 
United States, the Company has strengthened its 
efforts to expand future funding so that it better reflects 
the geographic balance of the Company’s business 
operations. Additionally, the company has established 
foundations in India and Mexico, which operate under 
similar priorities.
The Cummins Foundation96 | Diversity & ResponsibilityCummins Foundation Directors and 
Committees (as of April 1, 2009)
Foundation Management
Board of Directors
Tim Solso, Chairman
Jean Blackwell
Tom Linebarger
Will Miller
Mark Gerstle
Marya Rose
Pat Ward
*Joe Loughrey retired from the Board March 31, 2009
Officers
Jean Blackwell, Chief Executive Officer
Tracy Souza, President and Secretary
Marsha Allamanno, Treasurer
Audit Committee
Marsha Hunt, Committee Chair
Luther Peters
James Guilfoyle
Investment Committee
Richard Harris, Committee Chair
Nadeem Ali
Marsha Hunt
International Committees and Foundations
C3-Cummins Community Connection — Central Area
Raymond Eyres, Committee Chair
Cummins Community Cares — South Pacific
Gino Butera, Committee Chair
Cummins India Foundation
Anant Talaulicar, Chairman of Foundation
Asociacion Filantropica de Cummins AC
Teresita Rey, Chairman  
Edgar Freeman, Director
Domestic Committee
Columbus, IN Committee
Mark Gerstle, Committee Chair
 Statements of Financial Position
In 2008, The Cummins Foundation received $5,520,000 
from Cummins and paid grants totaling $5,366,992. 
Assets Dec 31, 2007 Dec 31, 2008
Cash and cash  
equivalents $13.580,212 $13,690,822
Notes receivable 0 350,000
Excise tax refund  
receivable 500 1,500
Investments 3,167,632 2,021,081
 $16,748,344 $16,063,403
 
Liabilities
Grants payable $5,113,215 $1,767,401
Unrestricted net assets
Undesignated 5,109,737 4,543,602
Board-designated funds 6,525,392 9,752,400
 $16,748,344 $16,063,403Diversity & Responsibility | 97Foundation Grants  (paid in 2008)
Grantee Community Purpose Amount
ABC - Stewart School Columbus, IN Support $ 10,000
Adult Day Care Corporation Columbus, IN Support for At-Risk Seniors $ 2,000
American Indian College Fund Denver, CO Annual Campaign $ 2,500
American Legion Post 200 Black River Falls, WI City Park Improvements $ 5,000
American Red Cross Columbus, IN Flood Relief Campaign $ 250,000
Amherst H. Wilder Foundation Fridley, MN Mobile Resource Center $ 25,000
Arts Council for Chautauqua County Jamestown, NY Media Arts Education Program  $ 10,000
Autism Speaks New York Sponsorship $ 50,000
Bartholomew Area Legal Aid, Inc. Columbus, IN General Support $ 6,000
Bartholomew Consolidated School Corp. Columbus, IN Book Buddies Program  $ 50,000
Bartholomew Consolidated School Foundation Columbus, IN Diversity Initiatives $ 5,000
Bartholomew County Sheriff’s Office Columbus, IN Purchase Physical Fitness Equipment $ 35,000
Black River Falls Middle School Black River Falls, WI Technology Class Improvements $ 10,000
Boys & Girls Club of Nash Edgecombe Counties Rocky Mount, NC Smart Moves Program $ 25,000
CAP Services Stevens Point, WI Domestic Abuse Outreach $ 10,000
CASA of Memphis & Shelby Counties Memphis, TN Child Advocates $ 2,500
CCYHA Lakers Sled Hockey Jamestown, NY Sports Activities for Physically Challenged Youth  $ 25,000
The Center on Philanthropy Indianapolis, IN Annual Symposium Support $ 10,000Employees and Disaster Relief
Cummins employees worldwide 
sent aid to more than 110 Cummins 
employees whose homes and 
lives were ravaged by floods that 
swept across the Midwest in June. 
The Cummins Foundation reports 
that employees raised more than 
$500,000 to aid victims of the 
floods, which caused $100 million in 
damages to Cummins facilities alone.
Cummins employees worldwide 
sent aid to more than 110 Cummins 
employees whose homes and lives 
were ravaged by floods that swept 
across the Midwest in June 2008. 
The Cummins Foundation reports 
that employees raised more than 
$500,000 to aid victims of the floods, which caused $100 million in 
damages to Cummins facilities alone. 
Employees donated more than 
$300,000 to the American Red 
Cross for relief work and raised an 
additional $185,000 for the Cummins 
Employees Flood Relief Fund 
(CEFRF), a special account set up to 
provide recovery assistance. Those 
individuals affected by the June 2008 
flood will now have help rebuilding 
their lives with gifts from the CEFRF 
ranging from $400 to $3,000. 
This outpouring of support came 
only weeks after Cummins employ -
ees and organizations gave more 
than $1.3 million in money, supplies, and equipment to the victims of the 
May earthquake in China that killed 
over 70,000.
Tracy Souza, president of the 
Cummins Foundation, believes 
these efforts emphasize the gener -
ous nature of the Company and its 
employees. “Cummins has always 
tried to live up to its core value of 
corporate responsibility. This has 
been especially true during times 
of adversity and hardship when the 
Cummins family has come together 
to not only help each other, but also 
to help others in need in the com -
munities in which we live and do 
business,“ she said.
98 | Diversity & ResponsibilityFoundation Grants (continued)
Grantee Community Purpose Amount
Central Indiana Corporate Partnership Indianapolis, IN Conexus - General Support $ 50,000
Challenged Champions Equestrian Center Findlay, OH Expanded Program for Physically Challenged $ 2,500
Christian Help Inc. Indianapolis, IN House Refurbishment for Homeless Family $ 5,000
City of Columbus Columbus, IN Architecture Fees $ 416,000
City of Columbus Columbus, IN Architecture Fees $ 207,412
City of Columbus Columbus, IN Architecture Fees $ 92,403
City of Columbus - Redevelopment Commission Columbus, IN Architecture Fees $ 400,000
City of Lake Mills Lake Mills, IA Handicap Sidewalks & Shelter $ 25,000
City of Stoughton Stoughton, WI Preserve America Fund $ 1,693
City of Stoughton Stoughton, WI Stoughton Fire Department Support $ 5,200
City of Stoughton Stoughton, WI Stoughton Area Emergency Medical Service $ 3,107
Clark Atlanta University Atlanta, GA Ware Family Scholarship Endowment $ 10,000
Columbus Area Arts Council Columbus, IN Support for Mill Race Players $ 2,500
Columbus Area Arts Council Columbus, IN Rock the Park Sponsorship $ 10,000
Columbus Area Arts Council Columbus, IN UnCommon Cause Sponsorship $ 5,000
Columbus Area Chamber of Commerce Foundation  Columbus, IN Connected Community Partnership $ 10,000
Columbus Indiana Architectural Archives Columbus, IN Support for Archivest $ 100,000
1989When the Cummins Turbo Diesel was introduced to the Dodge Ram 250 
and 350, the pickup truck market was transformed. The 160 hp 5.9-liter 
offered a huge advantage in torque, enabling owners to haul trailers 2 tons 
heavier than any other pickup. In the first year, orders for almost 20,000 
Cummins powered Rams were double highest expectations. 
Diversity & Responsibility | 99Grantee Community Purpose Amount
Columbus Indiana Philharmonic Columbus, IN Children’s Outreach Program $ 25,000
Columbus Police Department Columbus, IN CHIP (Child Identification Program) $ 21,400
Community Education Coalition Columbus, IN Columbus Campus Master Plan Design $ 15,000
Community Helping Hands Jamestown, NY Gateway Center Renovation $ 25,000
Cornerstone Middle School Baxter, TN Education Support $ 10,000
Cummins India Foundation Dewas, India  Support for Shree Ramkrishna Charities $ 10,000
Cummins India Foundation Pune, India  Visually Impaired Girls School $ 20,000
Eastside Community Center Columbus, IN Flood Victim Support - Food Delivery $ 4,000
Fathers and Families Center Indianapolis, IN Support At-Risk Families $ 25,000
Food Bank of Eastern New Mexico Clovis, NM Kids Weekend Food Backpack Program $ 25,000
Food Bank of Eastern New Mexico Clovis, NM Support for Food Bank $ 10,000
Franklin College Franklin, IN Cummins Lectures on Ethical Leadership $ 25,000
Gliding Stars of Findlay Findlay, OH Therapeutic Ice Skating Program $ 2,500
Guadalupe Center of Immokalee Immokalee, FL Scholarship Program for Immigrant Families $ 20,000
Habitat for Humanity of Dane County Madison, WI House Building Project $ 25,000
Habitat for Humanity of Findlay/Hancock County Findlay, OH Women’s Build 2008 $ 25,000Cummins South Pacific Named Employer of Choice for Women
Cummins is one of only 99 organiza -
tions in Australia receiving this citation 
from the Australian Government’s 
Equal Opportunity for Women in the 
Workplace Agency (EOWA).
Anna McPhee, Director of the EOWA, 
said, “For these organizations, creat -
ing equity is about changing culture, 
changing expectations, breaking down the 
outdated myths 
about women 
and valuing the 
massive contribu -
tion women make to the workplace 
whether they are working part-time 
or full-time, working from home or in 
the office, starting their careers, or 
nearing retirement.”
The citation follows the recent naming 
of Gino Butera, Managing Director 
– Cummins Pacific Asia Distribution, 
as the “Leading CEO for the 
Advancement of Women in Australia.”Butera received the award from 
EOWA for his proactive approach 
to achieve greater female repre -
sentation in both traditional and 
non-traditional roles at all levels of 
the organization.
“This is not an individual award,” 
said Butera, acknowledging the 
work of Cummins South Pacific’s 
Local Diversity Council and Women’s 
Leadership Network Group in his 
acceptance speech. “Identifying, 
implementing and living with diversity 
initiatives in the workplace takes 
active leadership and participation 
across the entire organization.”  100 | Diversity & ResponsibilityFoundation Grants (continued)
Grantee Community Purpose Amount
Habitat for Humanity Waushara County Wautoma, WI House Building Project $ 25,000
Heritage Fund of Bartholomew County Columbus, IN Architecture Fees $ 60,000
Heritage of Hope, Inc. Hope, IN Support for Community Foundation $ 10,000
Human Services, Inc. Columbus, IN Horizon House Homeless Shelter $ 5,000
Indiana Achievement Awards Indianapolis, IN Program Sponsor $ 1,000
Indianapolis Opera Indianapolis, IN Education Sponsorship $ 10,000
Indianapolis Zoo Indianapolis, IN Indianapolis Prize Support $ 50,000
Initiative for Global Development Seattle, WA Support Anti-Poverty Initiative $ 100,000
ISO Women’s Committee - Columbus Unit Columbus, IN Young People’s Discovery Concert $ 3,000
Kidscommons Children’s Museum Columbus, IN 2008 Winter Carnivale-China  $ 10,000
Kidscommons Children’s Museum Columbus, IN 2009 Winter Carnivale-Mexico $ 10,000
Lake Mills Entertainment Inc. Lake Mills, IA Theater Renovation $ 25,000
Lake Mills Family Center Lake Mills, IA Fitness Center Upgrade $ 5,000
Lake Mills Fire Department Lake Mills, IA General Support $ 2,500
Lake Mills Senior Citizens Club Lake Mills, IA Support for Senior Citizens $ 2,500
Legal Momentum Columbus, IN Support Annual Campaign $ 1,500When Cummins Emission Solutions, 
Mineral Point, Wis., had the need 
to outsource the assembly of some 
components, the staff did not have 
to look very far for someone to do it. 
Less than half a mile down the road 
is the Hodan Center, a community 
rehabilitation program for persons 
with disabilities which, among other 
functions, contracts the produc -
tion services of its clients to area 
businesses. 
As one of its functions, the Hodan 
Center provides clients with industrial 
services and offers to businesses a 
high quality, cost effective workforce. The assembly and packaging 
services may be customized to meet 
various business needs. 
The Hodan Center started working 
with Cummins in April 2008 making 
three different sensors and clipping 
bars. Now, eight components are 
being produced with a current goal 
of 12. “We’re sensitive; we don’t 
want to overload the center. But, 
for now, we’ve never had an issue,” 
says Bruce Berstler of Cummins. 
“They (Hodan) also do their pick-
ups of the parts and delivery of the 
finished goods.” The work orders 
provide employment for about 20 of 
the 110 clients served at the center.“Cummins goes all over the world 
looking for quality and on-time 
delivery and we found the both with 
you guys,” CES Plant Manager, Amit 
Soman, told the client-employees.
This article was written by Jean 
Berns Jones of the Dodgeville 
Chronicle, and has been reprinted  
for this report with permission Cummins Emission Solutions Forges Partnership  
with Local Rehabilitation CenterDiversity & Responsibility | 101Grantee Community Purpose Amount
LeMoyne-Owen College Memphis, TN Improvement Projects Support $ 100,000
LeMoyne-Owen College Community Development Corp  Memphis, TN Teen Mothers Program $ 7,000
The Library Project China Support 31 Elementary / Middle School Libraries  $ 50,000
The Links Memphis, TN Institute of Women’s Empowerment $ 2,500
Memphis Cultural Arts Enrichment Center Memphis, TN Welcome to Zanesville - Watoto de Afrika $ 10,000
Memphis Urban League Memphis, TN Support At-Risk Youth $ 2,500
Memphis Youth Leadership Program Memphis, TN Training & Development for At-Risk Youth $ 37,500
The Mind Trust Indianapolis, IN Educational Improvement in Indianapolis $ 100,000
Mineral Point Public Library Mineral Point, WI Library Expansion / Improvement $ 10,000
Mt. Healthy Elementary School Columbus, IN Fitness Trail & Equipment $ 23,000
My Sister’s House Rocky Mount, NC Strong Voices for Girls Program Support $ 5,000
NAACP - Bartholomew County Branch Columbus, IN State Education Summit Support $ 500
Nationalities Council of Indiana Indianapolis, IN International Festival Support-Peking Opera $ 7,800
New Haven Elementary Union, KY Book Blazers Program $ 25,000
People Serving People Minneapolis, MN Child Development Center Support $ 10,000
Phoenix Theatre Indianapolis, IN Building for the Future Campaign $ 25,000
Portland State University Portland, OR Human Powered Vehicle Development Project $ 1,000
Rocky Mount Children’s Museum Rocky Mount, NC Planetarium $ 50,000
Shepherd Community Center Indianapolis, IN Expand Programing to Serve Closed Shelter Clients  $ 25,000
The South Carolina Maritime Heritage Foundation Charleston, SC Spirit of South Carolina Repairs $ 20,000
South Decatur Youth Football Westport, IN Equipment Replacement $ 5,000
Spelman College Atlanta, GA Endowed Scholarship Fund $ 50,000
Spelman College Atlanta, GA Executive Leadership Group - Dr. Tatum $ 10,000
Su Casa Columbus Inc. Columbus, IN Emergency Assistance $ 10,000
Tennessee Baptist Children’s Homes Bartlett, TN Support for At-Risk Youth $ 10,000
Turning Point Shelter for Domestic Violence Columbus, IN Safe Harbor Light House Project $ 25,000
United Community Ministries Rocky Mount, NC Homeless Shelter $ 5,000
United Negro College Fund Indianapolis, IN Annual Campaign $ 25,000
United Way Funds 
Decatur County United Fund, Inc. Indiana Employee Match $ 7,177
Greater Twin Cities United Way Fridley, MN Employee Match $ 192,791
Jackson County United Fund Indiana Employee Match $ 50,767
Jefferson County United Way Indiana Employee Match $ 2,834
Jennings County United Way Indiana Employee Match $ 21,296
Metro United Way of Clark County Indiana Employee Match $ 1,774
Rocky Mount Area United Way Rocky Mount, NC Employee Match $ 193,450102 | Diversity & ResponsibilityUnited Way Funds (continued) 
Rush County United Fund Indiana Employee Match $ 192
Shelby County United Fund, Inc. Indiana Employee Match $ 9,565
Trident United Way Charleston, SC Employee Match $ 84,832
United Fund of Dearborn County Indiana Employee Match $ 72
United Way for Clinton County Indiana Employee Match $ 48
United Way of Allen County Indiana Employee Match $ 24
United Way of Bartholomew County Columbus, IN Employee Match $ 712,545
United Way of Bloomington & Monroe County, Inc.  Indiana Employee Match $ 4,907
United Way of Central Indiana Indiana Employee Match $ 68,870
United Way of Dane County, Inc. Stoughton, WI Employee Match $ 34,878
United Way of Eastern New Mexico, Inc. Clovis, NM Employee Match $ 9,614
United Way of El Paso County El Paso, TX Employee Match $ 3,804
United Way of Franklin County Indiana Employee Match $ 456
United Way of Greater Cincinnati Northern Kentucky  Florence, KY Employee Match $ 18,144
United Way of Greater Lafayette & Tippecanoe County  Indiana Employee Match $ 48
United Way of Hancock County Findlay, OH Employee Match $ 3,494
United Way of Johnson County Indiana Employee Match $ 68,956
2007Proteus  is an ultra-light craft with wave adaptive inflatable hulls capable of 
ocean crossing. Large titanium springs ensure cabin stability and payload 
modules can switch roles from search and rescue to oceanography. Proteus  
is powered by two QSB5.9 Cummins MerCrusier engines each 355 hp.
Diversity & Responsibility | 103Cummins Turbo Technologies India  
Empowers Those With Special Needs
Cummins Turbo Technologies India 
has supported a local blind school 
for women for 10 years, but was 
recently challenged to step up its 
commitment by creating employment 
opportunities—placing a visually 
impaired person in a factory setup. 
Initially, the team responsible for the 
step was overwhelmed. How would 
such a person commute between 
home and office? Or find access to 
the washroom and cafeteria? How 
would she cope with health and 
safety issues on the factory floor?
Team members used Six Sigma 
tools to take a structured approach 
to these problems, beginning with 
health and safety. The team created 
a cause-and-effect matrix to identify 
suitable employment opportunities 
and found one in aftermarket opera -
tions, packing repair kits.
Mamta, a young woman from the 
school for the blind, was hired at the 
Dewas plant and was soon achiev -
ing 100 percent accuracy at the 
job. Neeraj Deshpande, Aftermarket 
Leader, is proud to have Mamta in 
his team.
“This initiative was not only about 
empowering people with special 
needs, but also to remember not to 
overlook potential employees who 
have a disability,” said Vikas Thapa, Head of Human Resources for 
Cummins Turbo Technologies India.
This was not the first time that 
Cummins Turbo Technologies India 
took such a challenge. In 2005, a 
Turbo Technologies Dewas team 
hired the first hearing and speech 
impaired candidate for the assembly 
line function. To support the initiative, 
the co-workers on the shop floor 
learned to communicate with the 
employee through sign language, and 
management took additional steps to 
ensure his safety and security.The performance of that employee 
and the commitment of co-workers 
encouraged the team to hire two 
more hearing and speech-impaired 
people, who are now successfully 
working on assembly lines at the 
Pithampur and Dewas plants.
Turbo Technologies India has now 
listed the creation of employment 
opportunities for special needs 
people as a critical initiative on its 
Goal Tree.
New employee Mamta packs repair kits in the aftermarket 
section of the Cummins Turbo Technologies plant in Dewas.104 | Diversity & ResponsibilityUnited Way Funds (continued) 
United Way of Madison County Indiana Employee Match $ 972
United Way of Metropolitan Nashville Nashville, TN Employee Match $ 84,038
United Way of North Central Iowa Lake Mills, IA Employee Match $ 36,643
United Way of Putnam County Cookeville, TN Employee Match $ 26,603
United Way of Putnam County Greencastle, IN Employee Match $ 30
United Way of Scott County Indiana Employee Match $ 3,627
United Way of South Central Indiana Indiana Employee Match $ 792
United Way of Southern Chautauqua County Jamestown, NY Employee Match $ 124,161
United Way of the Mid-South Memphis, TN Employee Match $ 26,296
United Way of the Wabash Valley Indiana Employee Match $ 48
United Way Funds Sub Total   $ 1,793,748  
Shortly after learning that Hurricane 
Ike was headed for Texas in 
September, Cummins had more 
than 25 truckloads of Cummins 
Onan portable generators rolling into 
hurricane country.
“I got the calls from our retailers, 
and the generators were on the 
road within two hours,” said Melissa 
Davis, North American Sales 
Manager. “They were available ahead 
of any threatened power outages.”Hurricane Ike was the third most 
destructive storm in U.S. history, and 
worst ever to hit Texas. Its winds 
reached 145 mph and caused an 
estimated $24 billion in damage. An 
estimated three million people were 
left without power, many of whom 
remained in the dark two weeks later. 
The Onan portable generators were 
shipped to areas in the anticipated 
path of the hurricane. Each was 
designed to provide 5,000 watts of 
continuous power and up to 5,500 
watts of peak power for 9 hours of continuous operation on a tank of gas. 
The generators can power a refrigera -
tor, lights, air-conditioner and more.
“In areas that have a history of 
hurricanes or other severe weather, 
people need standby power as the 
alternative to available power,” said 
Davis. “A standby generator can pay 
for itself by just powering your refrig -
erator or freezer until the grid comes 
back online, which is especially 
important if you need to refrigerate 
expensive medicines.”Cummins Delivers Portable 
Power to Hurricane Alley
Diversity & Responsibility | 105Foundation Grants (continued)
Grantee Community Purpose Amount
United Way of Johnson County Indiana Purchase Appliances for Flood Victims $ 5,000
University of San Francisco San Francisco, CA McCarthy & Martin Scholarship Fund $ 5,000
University of Tennessee Memphis, TN Summer Camp for Children with ADHD $ 10,000
Vanderbilt University Nashville, TN Education Support $ 75,000
Walton-Verona High School Walton, KY Education Support $ 5,000
West Ohio Food Bank Findlay, OH Support for Food Bank $ 5,000
Westwood Youth Development Memphis, TN Camp Care Program $ 2,500
Women with Wings Erlanger, KY Support for Domestic Violence Victimes $ 5,000
World Vision USA China China Earthquake Relief $ 307,730
YMCA of the USA Chicago, IL National Black & Hispanic Achievers Program $ 10,000
YMCA of the USA Chicago, IL Leadership Conference Speaker Support $ 3,500
Youth Leadership Bartholomew County Columbus, IN Student Leadership Seminar  $ 500
Total Foundation Grants   $ 5,366,993Although the three have worked 
together since 2003, Purdue 
University, Cummins Inc. and 
Cummins College of Engineering for 
Women (CCEW) signed a memoran -
dum of understanding On Nov. 7, 
2008 to foster important additional 
linkages. Research and develop -
ment; student and faculty exchange; 
a fellowship program; and support 
for mechanical engineering curricula 
at the CCEW campus in Pune, India 
will all be involved. 
Cummins actively recruits Purdue 
University students to add to its 
cohort of engineers. This new 
agreement, formalized in Mumbai by leaders of the three institutions, 
sets the stage for greater interaction 
between Purdue and the CCEW as 
partnerships expand over the next 
five years. 
“Two of Cummins’ strongest and 
longest-standing academic partners 
are Purdue University in Indiana 
and CCEW in Pune, India,” said Dr. 
John C. Wall, Vice President and 
Chief technical Officer. “We are very 
pleased to formalize our scholarship 
program with Purdue to support 
selected outstanding young women 
engineers from CCEW for graduate 
studies in engineering and informa -
tion technology at Purdue.” Created in 1991, Cummins College 
of Engineering for Women was the 
first engineering college in India 
established exclusively for women. It 
is consistently ranked among the top 
five colleges in Pune, an academic 
center. Purdue, Cummins Inc., and Cummins College  
of Engineering for Women Expand Partnership
Cummins Inc.
Box 3005
Columbus, IN 47202-3005
U.S.A.
cummins.com
©2009 Cummins Inc.