Cummins Inc.  SuStaInabIlIty RepoR t 2011  |  3
Zhao Yan (left), of Cummins Turbo 
Technologies, teaches a vocational 
education class in Wuxi, China.  
Read how Cummins is engaging  
in these kinds of programs  
around the world on page 54.The power of
SuStaInabIlIty RepoR t 2011–2012engagement
Cummins Inc.          SuStaInabIlIty RepoR t 2011– 2012ABOUT THIS REPORT
The information in this report is presented 
in the spirit of the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI). The goal of the GRI is to develop a consistent way for companies around the 
world to voluntarily report on the economic, 
environmental and social components of  their businesses.
The GRI was created in 1997 by the  
Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies. The coalition today works 
in collaboration with the United Nations 
Environment Program and the U.N.  Secretary General’s Global Compact.
Cummins takes a broad view of sustainability, 
going beyond environmental practices and community involvement to include such 
issues as safety, diversity, leadership and 
governance. We also believe that a company can’t be sustainable without a firm financial 
foundation that enables investment in 
everything from product development  to building stronger communities.
As a global company, Cummins  
wants to make a difference for all of  its stakeholders today and in the future.  
This report was published in June 2012  
and is the Company’s ninth annual edition.
CONTRIBUTORS
This report relies on the writing, editing, 
design and technical expertise of many 
Cummins employees. Contributors this year include: Sena Adekpuitor, Marsha Allamanno,  
Jane Calloway, Jeff Campbell, Dave Clark, 
Sarah Clark, Laurie Counsel, Bill Fak, Angela 
Flood, Li-Anne Foo, John Forte, Cindy Frey, Elena Grimm, Carla Howie, Elliot Hayden, Leah Huelsebusch, Surbhi Jagotta, Joann Jones, Christine Kuo, Carol Lavengood, Annie 
Mack, Keri Moenssen, Christy Nycz, Luther 
Peters, Jennifer Kain Rager, Alan Resnik, Lori Rucker, Meredith Sanders, Stephen Sanders, Rosann Scattoloni, Ernie Smith, Mark Smith, 
Todd Swingle, Steve Watts, Janet Williams 
and Jackie Yeager. 
ABOUT THE COVER
This year’s cover shows vocational education 
students in Wuxi, China gathered around Zhao Yan, Technical Project Leader for 
Cummins Turbo Technologies, for a lesson on 
turbochargers. It’s just one of many examples of how Cummins is engaging in technical training programs around the world to help provide people with portable job skills that 
will ultimately lead to stronger communities. 
Cummins is launching a major new effort  in this area. To learn more, go to page 54.
CONTACTS
Jean Blackwell 
Executive Vice President –  Corporate Responsibility 
Chief Executive Officer –  
The Cummins Foundation One American Square, Suite 1800 
Indianapolis, IN 46282
Marya Rose 
Vice President – Chief Administrative Officer 
One American Square, Suite 1800 
Indianapolis, IN 46282
Blair Claflin (Editor) 
Director – Sustainability Communications One American Square, Suite 1800 
Indianapolis, IN 46282 
(317) 610-2542INTROdUCTION
2    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    3
Welcome to the 2011-2012 Sustainability 
Report. I’m pleased to report that 2011  
was another outstanding year for Cummins 
both in terms of our financial performance as well as our commitment to a cleaner, 
healthier and safer environment.
At Cummins, we believe that sustainability 
starts with a strong financial performance. 
Our Company had record revenue and 
profits in 2011. Revenue for the full year was $18 billion, up 36 percent from 2010, 
and Earnings Before Interest and Taxes 
(EBIT) increased by 54 percent compared  to a year ago. Our balance sheet is strong, 
as our cash balances finished the year 
at $1.5 billion, more than twice our outstanding debt. 
The strong financial performance in  
2011, as well as in prior years, has  enabled our Company to make the 
necessary investments to develop and 
maintain technology leadership in our industry, to further expand our global  
reach with manufacturing, engineering,  
and customer service, and to increase  our capacity to meet growing demand.  
All of these investments are vital to  
sustain our future profitable growth. 
At Cummins, we also recognize that  
our long term sustainability depends  
on the success of a number of other key stakeholder groups. In fact, the stakeholder 
model was championed by our former 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  J. Irwin Miller, who believed strongly  
that it is in Cummins’ self-interest to  
ensure that all stakeholders share in  our Company’s success. Not only is there a direct tie between  our future growth and the success of our 
stakeholders, but it is in our self-interest as 
a company to invest in our stakeholders’ success. For example, we believe that 
our Company is only as strong as the 
communities where our employees live  and work. Stronger communities mean  
that we can attract and retain the best  
talent and ultimately lead to more robust markets for our products and services. 
The theme of this year’s report, The Power 
of Engagement, fits well with Mr. Miller’s ideals that we partner with our stakeholders 
to achieve success and promote our 
mission that “everything we do leads  to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment.” 
As you read this report, I think you will see 
many examples where Cummins employees are engaging with the community to make 
things happen. They are working closely 
with key community partners, leveraging  the skills and capabilities of Cummins,  
and investing in community projects that 
make a difference.
On a personal note, it is an honor and 
privilege to assume the leadership of a 
company with a long history of achievement and great values. Much like my predecessor 
Tim Solso, I feel a tremendous responsibility 
to be a good steward of Cummins and its stakeholders. I am committed to building 
an even stronger and more sustainable 
company during my time as leader. 
Tom Linebarger 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Cummins Inc.
Letter from the chairman 2
INTROdUCTION
Cummins around the world 4
Who we are 6
How we do it 7
Our history 8
Vision, mission,  
values and principles 10
Our recognition 12
ENVIRONMENT
SuperTruck project is ready to take off  14
Products 18
Hedgehog: Big can still be green 28
Profitable and green after 10 years 30
Zero can be a big number 31
Practices 32Let the sun shine in! 41
Silence is music to neighbor’s ears 42
Partnerships and policy 44
Collaborating with customers  
for better performance 46
A family affair 50
Energy savings from the  earth’s core to the shop floor 52
COVER STORY
Vocational education: changing lives, 
strengthening communities 54CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYLiving our corporate responsibility  value takes many forms in 2011–2012 58
Challenge keeps growing  in scope, impact 61
Power for Padarwadi, and beyond 68
Putting our professional skills to work 70
Philanthropy:  augmenting our skills and passions 73
Foundation Leaders 77
EMPLOYEE RELATIONSA record year in safety 78
‘Ergo Team’ charts safer path for plant  81
Leveraging the full benefit of diversity 83
Making a difference  for women at Cummins 86
Taking supplier diversity  to the next level 88
Development mindset key  to sustainable workforce 90
GOVERNANCE & RISk
Sustainability built  
on good governance 92
Cummins Board of Directors 96
Managing risk key to sustainability 98
FINANCIALCummins records strong financial  performance over past year 102
Transition goes according to plan 104Letter from the chairman Table of contents
4    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    5
Cummins around the world
Cummins enjoyed a busy 2011–2012 with several major 
developments around the world. Here are just a few:
Cummins unveiled the new QSF2.8 engine for 
construction equipment during the INTERMAT  
show at the Paris Exhibition Center. The 4-cylinder, 
2.8-liter engine is the smallest off-highway engine  to be introduced by Cummins.
Cummins India celebrated its 50th 
anniversary in business in India  
with a variety of activities in 2012.  
The Company has more than  11,000 employees working  across some 200 locations.
Cummins employees began 
moving into a new production 
facility in Izmir, Turkey in 2012. 
Cummins Filtration and Cummins Generator Technologies will be located there.
Cummins Filtration celebrated 
the grand opening of its plant  
in Suwon, South Korea in 2012. 
Cummins Turbo Technologies celebrated its 60th anniversary. Established 
in Huddersfield, U.K. on March 29, 1952 as Holset Engineering Co. Ltd., 
the company has been owned by Cummins since 1973.
Cummins Board of Directors 
visited China in November 2011, 
touring Cummins facilities and 
meeting with company leaders and customers.
INTROdUCTION
INTROdUCTION
CHINA SOUTH kOREA TURkEY AFRICA FRANCE UNITEd STATESUNITEd kINGdOM
FRANCE
TURkEY
INdIASOUTH kOREACHINA
Columbus, Ind. – Cummins announced  
plans to produce dual fuel engines from  
800 hp to 3,500 hp for high-horsepower 
markets. The first in the product portfolio,  the QSK50 Tier 2 for oil and gas well  servicing applications, will begin production  
in mid-2013, with other QSK Series engines  
to follow. The engines will run on diesel fuel 
until the operator selects the option to run  
on a blend of diesel and natural gas. 
UNITEd STATES
Seymour, Ind. – Cummins unveiled  
its most powerful engine ever, the 
QSK95, at the Company’s plant in 
Seymour Ind., in November 2011.  The engine, the first of the “Hedgehog” family, will be marketed for use in boats,  
light rail, mining equipment and more. UNITEd STATES
Cummins Brazil announced in March 2012 the 
acquisition of land outside São Paulo for a master 
site. The site will initially host Cummins Power 
Generation and Cummins Parts Distribution and  will be home to approximately 250 employees.
BRAzIL
Cummins Africa launched  
a major AIDS information 
and communications 
campaign in 2011-2012, including videos from CEO Tom Linebarger and 
Cummins Africa leader  
Brady Southwick urging AIDS testing. 
AFRICA
This map includes Cummins plants, offices and distributors.INTROdUCTION
INTROdUCTION
6    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    7
Cummins Emission Solutions designs and manufactures  
exhaust aftertreatment technology and solutions for the medium-  and heavy-duty, and high-horsepower engine markets.
Cummins Filtration designs and builds heavy-duty air, fuel, hydraulic  
and lube filtration, chemicals and exhaust system technology products.
Cummins Fuel Systems designs and manufactures  
new fuel systems and rebuilds Electronic Control Modules.
Cummins Turbo Technologies designs and builds  
turbochargers to boost engine power and related products.
Seventeen Company-owned distributors and 10 joint ventures  work through 233 locations worldwide – selling and distributing  Cummins-branded products and services.
Power Gen is a global provider of power generation systems, components and services in standby power, distributed power generation, as well as auxiliary power in mobile applications. It also provides a full range of  
services including long-term operation and maintenance contracts  
and turnkey and temporary power solutions.The Engine Business manufactures and markets a complete line of diesel and  
natural gas-powered engines for on-highway and off-highway use. Markets include  
heavy- and medium-duty trucks, buses, light-duty trucks and industrial uses such  as agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas and military equipment.
WORLd HEAdqUARTERS
500 Jackson Street 
Columbus, Ind., 47201FOUNdEd IN 1919  
WEB SITE 
www.cummins.comWho we are How we do it
EMPLOYEES
Worldwide, approximately  
44,000 people. 
More than 60 percent of the 
Company’s employees are located outside the U.S.CUSTOMERS
The Company’s customers are located in approximately  
190 countries and territories that  
Cummins reaches through a network of more than  
600  company-owned and independent distributor  
locations and approximately  6,000  dealer locations.FORTUNE 500 RANkING (2012) 
150STOCk SYMBOL (traded on NYSE) 
CMI
SALES / EARNINGS
In 2011, Cummins earned  $1.85 billion   
 
on revenues of  $18 billion.Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of 
complementary business units that design, manufacture, 
distribute and service engines and related technologies, 
including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, 
emission solutions and electrical power generation systems.Cummins is organized into four business units:
CUMMINS ENGINE BUSINESS
COMPONENTS BUSINESS
CUMMINS dISTRIBUTION BUSINESS
CUMMINS POWER GENERATION BUSINESSINTROdUCTION
INTROdUCTION
8    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    9
CORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY
J. Irwin Miller (1909-2004) was the grand-
nephew of W.G. Irwin. Educated at Yale  
and Oxford, he joined the Company in 
1934, was elected president in 1947  and became chairman and CEO in 1951.
Under his watch, Cummins entered 
India and China long before most other American companies. He helped organize 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s 1963 March 
on Washington while leading the National Council of Churches. Miller believed passionately that a company 
was only as strong as the communities 
where it did business and where its employees lived and worked.
“If previous generations hadn’t done a lot of 
personal work and spent money which their generation was never going to profit from, 
this wouldn’t be a good community and our 
other plant communities wouldn’t be good communities,” he once said when asked why the Company invested in philanthropy. 
“We have an obligation not to use up  
that asset but to do as well in our time  as every previous generation has in its 
time,” he added.
INNOVATION
Clessie Cummins (1888-1968) was  
a driver and mechanic for a Columbus, Ind. 
businessman. Cummins had a fascination 
for diesel engines. 
Born on a farm in Indiana, Cummins was 
intrigued by all things mechanical growing 
up, tinkering with gadgets at an early age and building a miniature steam engine at 11. 
His family eventually moved to Columbus, 
Ind. where they operated a business making barrels and casks.
He would drop out of school and work for 
several Indiana machinists and automakers before taking the chauffeuring job. Cummins 
opened a repair shop in 1913 in addition 
to his driving duties. That business would become a machine shop, performing work 
for the military during World War I, and then 
the Cummins Engine Company in 1919, shortly after the war ended.
A prolific inventor and entrepreneur, 
Cummins promoted diesel technology in barnstorming trips across the United States. 
He would continue inventing throughout  
his tenure at the Company and even  after he left Columbus in 1945 and  
moved to California. INTEGRITY
W.G. Irwin (1866-1943) was the 
businessman who hired Clessie Cummins 
as his driver and mechanic. The son of  
a banker, he pursued profits with a sense  of community mission.
While he was initially cool to Cummins’ 
promotion of diesel technology, he agreed to let Cummins use a vacant forge building 
as an auto repair shop and even supplied 
him with some tools.
Later, Irwin decided to build a garage  
near the family’s home, including room  
for Cummins to experiment with the  engines he was so passionate about.
Eventually, Irwin agreed to back the creation 
of the Cummins Engine Company. He was the source of nearly all of the Company’s 
$50,000 starting capital.
The business got off to a rocky start, 
however, and both men talked of shutting 
it down. Irwin’s family, however, persuaded 
him to keep the business going to provide jobs for the young men of Columbus.
Nineteen years after the Company was 
founded, the Cummins Engine Company turned its first profit.Our history
The values of integrity, innovation and corporate responsibility 
have deep roots at Cummins, going back to the Company’s 
founding in 1919. Three men helped shape the Company  
in each of these areas. Their influence is still felt today.
TOP  Driver, mechanic and 
Cummins founder Clessie 
Cummins was fascinated  
with diesel engines.
LEFT  W.G. Irwin hired Clessie 
Cummins as his driver and 
ended up financing his dream 
of starting an engine company.
RIGHT  J. Irwin Miller believed 
Cummins had an obligation to all of its stakeholders - 
employees, communities, 
shareholders, government 
officials and more.INTROdUCTION
INTROdUCTION
10    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    11
CUMMINS OPERATING SYSTEM
The Cummins Operating System helps 
develop common practices and approaches 
to improve customer satisfaction. 
1 Put the customer first  
and provide real value.
2 Synchronize flows (material,  physical and information).
3 Design quality in every  step of the process.
4 Involve people and  promote team work.
5 Ensure equipment and tools  are available and capable.
6 Create functional excellence.
7 Establish the right environment.
8 Treat preferred suppliers as partners.
9 Follow common problem- solving techniques.
10 Use Six Sigma as the primary  process improvement method.VALUES
INTEGRITY 
Strive to do what is right and what we say we will do.
INNOVATION 
Apply the creative ingenuity necessary to make us  better, faster, first.
dELIVER SUPERIOR RESULTS 
Exceed expectations consistently.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
Serve and improve the communities in which we live.
dIVERSITY 
Embrace the diverse perspectives of all people  
and honor both with dignity and respect.
GLOBAL INVOLVEMENT 
Seek a world view and act without boundaries.STRATEGIC PRINCIPLES
Leverage Complementary Businesses 
Cummins is a family of complementary businesses that create value for our 
customers by leveraging relationships  
and applying innovative technology  
across business boundaries.
Increase Shareholder Value 
Cummins’ financial success is measured  
by growth in shareholder value. We will 
focus on ROE / ROANA and Earnings 
Growth (not Revenue Growth) as the principal drivers of shareholder value.
Seek Profitable Growth 
Cummins will seek profitable growth by 
leveraging our assets and capabilities to 
grow in market segments with favorable 
industry dynamics and where Cummins  
can establish an advantage.
Relentlessly Pursue Cost Leadership 
Cummins will pursue an operational  strategy of cost leadership.
Lead in Critical Technologies 
Cummins will be the market leader in 
technologies most critical to our customers’ 
success and our Company’s performance.
Create the Right Work Environment 
Cummins will assure that the physical  
and cultural work environment is  
conducive to excellent performance  and continuous improvement.MISSION 
We unleash the Power of Cummins by:
 »Motivating people to act like owners,  
working together.
 »Exceeding customer expectations  by always being the first to market  with the best products.
 »Partnering with our customers  to make sure they succeed.
 »Demanding that everything we do leads  to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment.
 »Creating wealth for all stakeholders.
PERSONALITY
Decisive. Driven to win.  
Agile. Passionate. Caring.VISION 
Making people’s lives better by  
unleashing the Power of Cummins.Vision, mission,  
values and principles
SIx SIGMA IS A dIFFERENCE  
MAkER AT CUMMINS
Six Sigma has played a key role in 
Cummins’ success since it was initiated 
in 2000 at a time when the Company was facing some significant financial problems.
The business-improvement tool created  
a common language for Cummins 
employees to solve problems and  develop new products and processes.
Six Sigma uses data-based analysis  
to identify defects and variation in a  
wide range of manufacturing and 
business situations.
Here’s a quick look at what  
Six Sigma has meant to Cummins:
 »As of the end of 2011, approximately 12,500 people had been trained in  how to use Six Sigma tools at Cummins since the process was initiated in 2000.
 »Almost $3.9 billion in savings have  
been identified at Cummins since  
the program was initiated.
 »An estimated $812 million was saved  by Cummins’ customers since 2005.
The Company also uses Six Sigma in its community involvement work, helping its community partners improve their efficiency and address major problems. In 2011,  48 Community Impact Six Sigma Projects 
were completed, up from 34 in 2010  
and 11 in 2009.INTROdUCTION
INTROdUCTION
12    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    13
WORkPLACE, dIVERSITY , PEOPLE
Cummins was named one of the Top 50 Companies for Diversity by DiversityInc magazine  
for the sixth consecutive year in 2012. Cummins ranked 18th on the list, the same position 
the Company held in 2011.
In 2012, Cummins received a perfect rating for a seventh consecutive year from the Human 
Rights Campaign, the largest advocacy group for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender employees. The group rated more than 800 employers as part of its 2012 Corporate  
Equality Index. The index reviews companies on their LGBT policies, practices and more.
Cummins in 2011 was honored with the Company Driver Safety Award at the ninth Annual 
Fleet Safety Forum Awards for Excellence in Staffordshire (U.K.) sponsored by Brake,  a road safety charity. Cummins was recognized for its efforts to create a global driver risk assessment, as well as for the monitoring and improvement program developed through  
the Virtual Risk Manager application.
Cummins received an IHS SPECTRUM Excellence Award in 2011 in recognition of the 
company’s superior use of advanced information technology to achieve environmental,  health and safety compliance and sustainability (EHS&S) business goals.
Cummins received an Honorable Mention C. Everett Koop National Health Award in 2011, 
presented by The Health Project, a non-profit, private-public consortium chaired by the former U.S. Surgeon General. The project honors organizations that have met rigorous results criteria and documented improved health and decreased medical costs.ENVIRONMENTAL 
In 2012, Cummins was named a winner in the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Goal 
achievement category of the inaugural Climate Leadership Awards for excellence 
in industrial energy efficiency. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and 
three other groups sponsored the awards to recognize corporate, organizational and individual leadership in addressing climate change and reducing carbon emissions.
Cummins was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the seventh 
consecutive year in September 2011. The index represents the top 10 percent  
of the world’s largest companies rated by Dow Jones across a range of economic, environmental and social responsibility measures.
Cummins finished in the top third of the companies reviewed as part of  
Newsweek’s environmental rankings of the 500 largest U.S. companies in the fall  
of 2011. The magazine partnered with two environmental research organizations 
to review the environmental footprints of companies along with their policies and transparency in reporting.
GOVERNANCE, ETHICS ANd CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
In 2012, Cummins was again named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies  
by the Ethisphere Institute. The institute evaluates companies’ commitment to  ethical leadership, compliance practices and corporate responsibility. This was  the fifth straight year that Ethisphere selected Cummins for this honor.
Corporate Responsibility magazine again named Cummins to its 2012 list of the 
world’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens. It was the 12th time in the last 13 years that  
the Company has been named to the list. Overall, Cummins was number 81.
Cummins China Investment Co., Limited won the Outstanding Corporate Citizen 
Award in 2011 from the China Association of Social Workers for the fourth 
consecutive time. The awards ceremony was held in the Great Hall of the People  
in Beijing. Cummins was honored for undertaking corporate responsibility activities while making great commercial achievements. Our recognition
A look at Cummins’ achievements in the past year:
ENVIRONMENT
14    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    15
WASTE HEAT RECOVERY
Cummins engineers have 
worked hard developing a  
waste heat recovery system  
for SuperTruck. The system  is similar to how steam  power plants operate.  
Here’s a quick look:
1 First, the system extracts 
waste heat from the exhaust system via a pressurized refrigerant.
2 Next, the pressurized, heated refrigerant  expands across a small turbine on the 
engine, creating power.
3 Finally, the power 
generated by the turbine goes back to the engine shaft, helping to push 
the vehicle forward and 
reducing the need  for diesel fuel.“Working on a project like this is exciting because it’s about the entire vehicle. It’s not just the tractor. It’s not just the engine,” said Scott Newhouse, Assistant Chief Engineer 
of Product Development responsible for the 
SuperTruck Program at Peterbilt. “It’s the whole system working together, which is really exciting for us.”
ABOUT THE PROGRAM
Energy officials initiated the multi-year 
program in 2010 with the goal of designing a heavy-duty Class 8 truck that achieves  a 50 percent improvement in overall freight 
efficiency measured in ton-miles per gallon.
The DOE set the goal of attaining  
40 percent of the overall efficiency  gains from engine improvements with the remaining 60 percent coming from other vehicle systems such as aerodynamics, using lighter weight materials and reducing friction in the drive train. 
The potential savings are significant. Class 
8 trucks represent only about four percent of the on-road vehicles in the United States but are responsible for almost 20 percent  
of the country’s on-road fuel consumption.
Through the SuperTruck program,  
energy officials want to see fuel economy increase from about 6.5 miles-per-gallon to 9.75 miles-per-gallon. That would save 
about $15,000 in annual fuel costs per 
long-haul truck.
The total cost of the SuperTruck initiative  
is about $270 million including DOE  grants and matching expenditures  from the project participants.
Cummins is one of four prime contractors 
leading SuperTruck teams. Daimler /Freightliner, Navistar and Volvo are  also leading SuperTruck projects.After months of testing concepts in trucks around the country, Cummins engineers 
and their colleagues in a public-private 
partnership will pull together the best of what they’ve learned and apply it to a  single tractor-trailer. 
With an aerodynamic exterior, an engine 
that captures waste heat and converts it  
to energy, and much more, their vision of the SuperTruck will officially hit the road. 
“The opportunity to get out and see how  
all of these improvements work together  
is very exciting for everyone in the project,” said David Koeberlein, Cummins Principal Investigator for SuperTruck.
Funded in part by the U.S. Department  
of Energy (DOE), the SuperTruck program 
was created to develop the next generation of tractor-trailers – a more fuel efficient  and environmentally friendly version of 
what’s on the road today.
There’s still plenty of research and 
development to do, but the test runs  to start in October 2012 between  Fort Worth and Vernon, Texas are  
an important project milestone.For Cummins, it means a chance to see 
not only how the waste heat recovery 
system works in concert with the rest of the 
vehicle but also combustion efficiency gains achieved by redesigning parts of the engine.
“The program is really an extension of the 
work we’ve been doing on fuel efficiency for 
a very long time now; it’s not something we 
just started on,” said Wayne Eckerle, Vice President – Research and Development for Cummins. “The SuperTruck program takes 
a comprehensive look at how to maximize 
the fuel economy of the tractor-trailer combination as a single unit.” 
The engine work is only part of the 
SuperTruck project that Cummins is  
leading. Peterbilt Motors Company,  
a division of PACCAR, is designing a tractor-trailer exterior with less drag.
Eaton and Dana are developing drivetrain 
improvements. Delphi is working on a  
fuel cell to reduce or eliminate the idling of trucks when drivers are asleep or resting. And those are just some of the companies involved in the effort (page 16). 
SuperTruck project is ready to take off 
The future of trucking could well be unfolding this  
fall along U.S. Route 287 in north central Texas.ENVIRONMENT
Members of the Cummins SuperTruck team stand 
next to the tractor before its trip to Texas for the start 
of critical testing in the fall of 2012. From left to right, 
Jon Dickson, Vehicle Applications Leader – Advanced 
Engineering; David Koeberlein, SuperTruck Principal 
Investigator and Wayne Eckerle, Vice President – 
Research & Technology.
ENVIRONMENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    17
TEXAS
FORT WORTH, TxVERNON, Tx
WHAT’S AHEAd
The route on U.S. 287, not far from 
Peterbilt’s headquarters in Denton,  
will allow the team to test SuperTruck  
over real-world conditions: elevation change, start-stop conditions and  speed limit changes within city limits. 
“Utilizing multiple new technologies on 
a single vehicle can create integration challenges,” said Peterbilt’s Newhouse. 
“Working as a team, we understand the 
trade-offs and resolve them to ensure everything operates the most efficiently  as a system. Individual component testing and vehicle testing are being conducted  to ensure performance objectives are met.” 
 
While the technical hurdles are significant, Eckerle says it’s important that team members not lose sight of one other  
critical factor.
“Our biggest challenge is really getting the 
costs for any and all of the technologies and 
systems we’re working on down to where 
the fleets will want to buy them,” he said. “They need to be durable and reliable, of course, but in the end they must offer a way to reduce total cost of ownership in order for a customer to use them.” Cummins received a $39 million grant from the energy department  in 2010. The Company expects to complete its work by April 2014.
PROJECT PROGRESS
At about the half way point in the effort, Cummins officials say they  
are pleased with the progress so far.
“The Cummins SuperTruck program remains on schedule and our 
roadmaps seek to meet or exceed our targets,” Koeberlein said.
Cummins is committed to reaching a number of milestones,  
including a 20 percent improvement in Brake Thermal Efficiency –  
a measure of the energy efficiency of the engine. The waste heat-recovery system is expected to accomplish about 6 percent of that  20 percent gain. 
The Cummins team expects to build on that by reducing friction, 
adding a highly efficient exhaust aftertreatment system and  efficiency gains within the combustion cycle of the engine resulting  in more power for the crankshaft without a corresponding increase  in fuel consumption.
“The 20 percent fuel efficiency improvement is a very technically 
challenging target to reach,” Koeberlein said. “Waste heat recovery  is a significant contribution towards this goal.” 
The other members of the SuperTruck team are contributing to  
the two program milestones on vehicle freight efficiency. These goals 
are to be over a complete vehicle operating cycle and measured in gallons of fuel consumed per ton of goods moved per mile traveled. 
Vehicle improvements to accomplish this might include a  
more aerodynamically efficient tractor and trailer, improved  
tire technology, an advanced axle and transmission system,  
idle management and more.
The final program commitment is to develop and demonstrate in a test 
cell Brake Thermal Efficiency even above the 20 percent improvement.Here’s a quick look at the Cummins partners working on the SuperTruck project:
Cummins engine-related partners:
 »Cummins businesses:  
The Engine Business, Fuel Systems, Turbo Technologies, Emission Solutions and Filtration are all participating in the project to develop  
an advanced efficient engine.
 »Modine Manufacturing Company 
and VanDyne SuperTurbos Inc.:  Supporting engine development  
and exploration efforts.
 »Oak Ridge National Lab and Purdue University: 
Structuring research programs  supporting development efforts. 
Peterbilt vehicle-related partners:
 »Peterbilt Motors Company:  Advanced aerodynamics of tractor- trailer and vehicle weight reductions. 
 »Eaton Corporation and  
Dana Holding Corporation:  
Working on drivetrain improvements. 
 »Delphi Automotive:  Developing idle management systems. 
 »Bergstrom Inc.:  
Developing climate control system.
 »Modine Manufacturing Company: 
Supporting the vehicle cooling system  and waste heat recovery integration. 
 »Bridgestone Corporation and  The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.:  Leading the tire development.
 »U.S. Xpress Enterprises:  Helping with fleet operational  
questions and evaluations. THE SUPERTRUCk TEAM
Key testing will take place 
along U.S. Route 287 in 
north central Texas in the 
fall of 2012. It will be the 
first time Cummins’ engine 
improvements are tested 
with chief partner Peterbilt’s 
tractor-trailer designed to be more aerodynamic and other 
new features. Team members 
are excited to see how their 
proposed improvements  
work together.ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
18    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    19
Continued innovation has enabled  
the Company to deliver exceptional  
fuel economy for Cummins’ on-highway 
customers, ultimately driving a reduction in their output of carbon dioxide (CO
2). 
Cummins is committed to doing both  
the right thing for our customers and  
the right thing for the environment.
ON-HIGHWAY ENGINES
In 2010, all heavy-duty diesel engines 
sold in the United States had to meet the EPA’s NOx standard (0.20 grams per 
brake-horsepower hour (g/bhp-hr)) and 
the PM standard (0.01g/bhp-hr). These are the most stringent emissions regulations 
in the world. The EPA has reduced both 
allowable NOx and PM levels by 90 percent compared to the levels in 2004. 
The 2010 regulations not only required near 
zero NOx and PM emissions, but also the phase-in of advanced on-board diagnostics 
with additional sensors to monitor the 
effectiveness of emission-control systems on the engine. The on-board diagnostics 
alert drivers if emission-reduction devices 
fail and need to be repaired.
Cummins was among the first companies  
to meet all of these new standards. In 2010,  
the Company successfully introduced the  
ISX15 engine for use in 18-wheel heavy-
duty commercial trucks. The engine 
provides up to six percent greater fuel economy, stronger performance, faster 
throttle response and best-in-class 
drivability and reliability compared to  the Company’s previous industry  
leading ISX engine. 
The ISX15 features the Cummins XPI fuel 
system, the next generation of Exhaust Gas 
Recirculation (EGR), a VGT™ turbocharger, and an EcoFit™ Ultra-
Low Emissions System 
that incorporates Selective 
Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology to reduce 
emissions. Each ISX15 can 
reduce CO
2 emissions by  
up to 12 metric tons per year  
compared to a 2007 ISX engine. Enhancements introduced in 2011  delivered improved fuel economy.
In 2012, Cummins introduced the new 
ISX12 engine for the vocational- and  work-truck market, emergency vehicles, 
motor coach and regional haul applications. 
The engine is designed to deliver better  fuel economy, performance, reliability  
and durability in a compact design.
OFF-HIGHWAY ENGINES
Off-highway regulations have come a long 
way in a short time. In only 20 years, the 
industry has been faced with the challenge of transitioning from being an unregulated 
market to requiring near zero emissions.
This challenged Cummins to look beyond 
basic engine technologies to areas such as 
high pressure fuel systems, turbo charging, 
electronics and aftertreatment systems to reduce emissions. The resulting innovations 
not only helped to meet the latest 
regulations, but can also lead to more fuel efficient products that produce less CO
2.The Company’s diverse product portfolio meets or exceeds all emissions 
requirements and at the same time delivers 
on our customers need for fuel economy, performance, power, reliability and durability.
There is a strong push for more stringent 
environmental regulations by governments in almost every country around the world. 
Meeting these regulations is a critical 
element of Cummins’ global success.  We believe our technical expertise gives  
us a competitive advantage in this  
business environment.
But the Company needs to increase 
its understanding of, and impact on, 
regulations in every market so we can develop the best technical solutions  
for those markets. Our goal is to meet  
our customers’ needs wherever they  are located.
This approach builds on the emissions 
compliance work we have historically  done, but adds in the very important,  all-encompassing regional element and internal oversight and coordination to 
ensure we have the right technology,  
at the right time and in the right places.
ENGINES
Since the 1970s, Cummins on-highway 
engines have been regulated by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and similar regulatory agencies around the 
world for combustion emissions, including 
nitrogen oxide (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), hydrocarbons (HC) and particulate 
matter (PM), also known as soot. 
When compared to emissions from 
unregulated engines 40 years ago,  
today’s on-highway diesel engines  
emit 99 percent less PM and NOx.
Throughout the years, Cummins has  
been a leader in clean diesel technology, 
pioneering the design and use of integrated subsystem technology such as combustion, 
controls, fuel systems, filtration, air handling 
and aftertreatment.Cummins demonstrates good environmental stewardship  
through our products, practices and our partnerships.  
Here’s a look at our activity in all three areas:ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARdSHIP // PRODUCTS
Products
Cummins’ leadership in combustion research, fuel 
systems, air-handling systems, electronics, filtration and 
aftertreatment enables the Company to provide the most 
appropriate emissions control for each market Cummins serves. 
ISX12
ISX15
HIGHLIGHTS: ENVIRONMENT
 »Cummins starts 
development on a  15-liter heavy-duty natural gas engine for  on-highway applications.
 »Cummins establishes Action Committee for Environmental Sustainability to  pull together environmental efforts.
 »Company increases greenhouse gas reduction goal from  28 percent achieved  in 2010 to 40 percent  by 2015 using 2005  as a baseline.SEE CHARTS
on page 27 for engine emission  
performance from 2009-2011.ENVIRONMENT
20    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    21
The low fuel cost, combined with increased 
reliability and performance with Cummins 
Westport’s ISL G engine, has driven 
significant new opportunities for natural  gas, particularly in the cab-over refuse  
truck market where natural gas trucks  
now account for 50 percent of truck orders.
The on-highway truck segment  
activity is increasing with developing  
fuel infrastructure announcements.  And Cummins is responding with  
a 12-liter natural gas truck engine,  
the Cummins Westport ISX12 G.  This will be available in early 2013.
“The opportunity to significantly reduce 
fleet fuel costs with natural gas, and the availability of Cummins Westport engines 
in a wide range of applications, is creating 
significant interest with customers,” said Jim Arthurs, President of Cummins Westport.
Perhaps the most visible example of the 
rising popularity of natural gas engines are transit buses and refuse trucks. Cities 
across the world have been turning to 
natural gas engines for their mass transit and trash collection systems to reduce 
pollution and provide some alternatives to 
the price fluctuations in petroleum-based fuels in recent years.
Cummins natural gas engines are now 
powering bus and truck fleets on every continent except Antarctica. In addition to the engines produced by 
Cummins Westport, Cummins has been 
producing natural gas engines outside the joint venture for the off-highway market for 
several years. 
The Company is currently at work on a 
natural gas version of the QSK95 engine, 
the Company’s powerful high-speed diesel, 
unveiled in November 2011. And in March 2012, Cummins announced it had started 
development on a 15-liter heavy-duty 
natural gas engine to help meet demand for on-highway applications that is expected to 
be in limited production by 2014.
That engine will be larger than those built 
by Cummins Westport, which range in size 
from 5.9 liters to the 12-liter ISX12 G now 
under development.
REMANUFACTURING
Remanufacturing is Cummins’ first and 
oldest “green business” and the ultimate 
form of reduce, reuse and recycle. Through remanufacturing, Cummins is able to take 
engines and parts at the end of their useful 
life and return them to productive use. Doing so significantly reduces the amount 
of Cummins product in landfills and it saves 
energy that would otherwise be used to manufacture new products.
Cummins’ remanufacturing business,  
or ReCon as it’s called, is part of the New  and ReCon Parts function of the Company’s 
Engine Business. With sales of $1 billion 
in 2011, Cummins ReCon business is an industry leader and a global business with 
remanufacturing operations worldwide.  
The business offers 1,000 components  and 2,000 engines.The off-highway business has gone beyond 
simply reducing engine emissions and 
improving fuel economy by launching  two new “clean-sheet” designed engines. 
Last fall, the QSK95 was launched with  
over 4000-hp (2983 kW) as the world’s most powerful high-speed diesel (page 28). 
The 95-liter, 16-cylinder engine was the first 
to be introduced in a new high-horsepower diesel and gas platform from Cummins. 
With this announcement came multiple 
plant expansion announcements in and around the Seymour Engine Plant  
in southern Indiana.
In the spring of 2012, on the opposite  
end of the horsepower range, the QSF2.8 
engine was launched for the compact 
equipment market. The 4-cylinder engine extends the Cummins horse power range  
down to 49-hp. The QSF2.8 is the smallest 
engine to be introduced by Cummins for the off-highway industry with full-authority 
electronic controls driving a High Pressure 
Common Rail fuel system.   The QSF2.8 engine will be manufactured  
at the state-of-the-art Beijing Foton  
Cummins Engine Company plant  (BFCEC) in Beijing, China.
EPA Tier 4 Final regulations for less than 
75-hp engines commence on Jan. 1 2013, with Tier 4 Final for our other products 
up to 751-hp following only a year later. 
With these two new engines, Cummins customers now have product offerings  
from 49-hp to more than 4000-hp of  
clean diesel technology at their disposal. 
NATURAL GAS ENGINES
Cummins Westport Inc. (CWI) is a joint 
venture established in 2001 between 
Cummins and Westport Innovations Inc.  of Vancouver, British Columbia that has  
sold more than 35,000 alternative fuel 
engines worldwide.
The joint venture’s natural gas engines  
are available as factory-installed options 
from more than 50 truck and bus manufacturers, establishing CWI as 
a leading global provider of midrange 
automotive natural gas engines. 
Recent advances in the extraction  
of natural gas in North America and 
elsewhere are encouraging natural  gas producers and distributors to look  
at heavy-duty transportation as a new  
market, and is also leading governments  to view natural gas as one way to reduce 
their dependence on oil imports. 
These new developments have also 
resulted in record low prices for natural gas, 
a benefit that translates into tremendous 
fuel cost savings opportunities for the transportation industry. 
ISL G natural gas engine
The QSF2.8 was unveiled  
at INTERMAT, a trade  show in Paris in April 2012. 
The 49- to 74-horsepower  
(37-55 kW) engine is designed 
to meet U.S. EPA Tier 4  
Final and EU Stage IIIB  
low-emissions regulations 
taking effect in 2013.
In 2011, Cummins partnered 
with the United States Navy 
and defense contractor  
Alion Science and Technology to determine the potential 
viability of algae-based 
renewable fuel as a  “drop in” replacement for 
petroleum based diesel  
in marine applications.
The year-long program 
included an evaluation of 
a 50 percent blend of the renewable fuel compared  
to the baseline Navy diesel 
fuel on performance, emissions and durability  
of a QSB5.9 marine engine. 
The overall results were  very encouraging, enabling 
the Navy to move to the 
second phase of the  program including field trials. 
Cummins also continued  
the development of  analytical tools to model  
the combustion performance 
of liquid renewable fuels,  such as the algae fuel and 
gaseous biofuels such as 
landfill gas, producer (wood) gas, biodigestor gas (such  
as from dairy farms) and 
waste treatment plant gas.
This added capability 
supports the development  
of the next generation of engines that will be able  
to run on a wide variety  
of renewable fuels.ALTERNATIVE FUELSENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
22    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    23
In 2011, Cummins remanufacturing 
reclaimed about 50 million pounds of Cummins product to be put back on  
the road and avoided 200 million pounds 
of greenhouse gas (GHG). The Company remanufactures engines and parts through 
the common application of salvage 
technology, component reuse guidelines and remanufacturing-specific policies and 
procedures. Our remanufactured products 
are often “up-cycled” to include design  and quality upgrades.
Remanufacturing requires about 85 percent 
less energy than manufacturing the same product with new parts. Take an engine,  
for example. If the block can be reused,  
the energy consumed in the ore mining,  ore processing, transportation, casting, and 
machining to make a new one is eliminated.
The same principle applies to all other 
components that Cummins remanufactures. 
Since most of the energy used at Cummins 
and in the Company’s supply chain is fossil-fuel based, the energy savings equate to GHG reductions. In addition to the energy 
and GHG savings, remanufacturing reduces 
landfill waste and further supports  Cummins water reclamation initiatives.
Remanufactured engines and parts 
can offer substantial cost advantages over their new counterparts. The use of remanufactured components can also  cost-effectively extend the life of an entire piece of equipment, whose vehicle and 
chassis can be updated to match the 
extended life of the engine.
Not only can remanufactured components 
extend useful life, they can also improve 
power and durability because product improvements that have occurred since 
a component’s initial manufacture can be 
included in the remanufacturing process. And they come backed by warranties,  
parts availability and service. 
Cummins is considered a pioneer  
in the remanufacturing business,  
and the Company intends to  
maintain its leadership position.
CUMMINS EMISSION SOLUTIONS
Cummins Emission Solutions develops 
products that help keep exhaust clean  while improving the environment in  
which its products are used. 
The new EcoFit product line is helping 
to position the Company as a leader in innovative exhaust aftertreatment 
technology, customized to fit different 
engines and applications while meeting global emissions regulations. 
EcoFit products provide leading-edge 
designs that improve vehicle integration 
and performance. These products allow for reduced fuel consumption and better thermal management while finding the  
right balance in emissions reduction 
performance and vehicle integration. 
“Each of our components offers the 
opportunity for engine-tuning for improved 
fuel economy regardless of application,” said Zach Gillen, General Manager of  
the Engineered Components business  
at Cummins Emission Solutions.  “The EcoFit promise encompasses our 
catalyst technology, controls technology, 
sensing technology and dosing systems, offering a performance standard 
unparalleled by competitive systems.”
Cummins Emission Solutions provides  
the EcoFit Ultra-Low Emission (ULE)  
System designed to convert nitrogen  
oxide (NOx) into harmless nitrogen gas and water vapor following the removal of 
particulate matter (PM) from the exhaust.
Since 2004, over 1 million Cummins 
Emission Solutions EcoFit Diesel  Particulate Filter (DPF) Systems have  
been in use, and nearly 1 million EcoFit 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) Systems have been in use since 2005.
With millions of miles traveled, the EcoFit 
ULE System embodies the EcoFit promise: offering clean-emissions solutions no  
matter the market.CUMMINS FILTRATIONCustomers around the world depend on 
Cummins Filtration to provide high quality, high performance integrated filtration 
systems to protect their equipment.  
In offering customers the best possible solutions, the business remains ever mindful 
of its responsibilities to the environment.
Cummins Filtration officially launched its 
Fleetguard Filter Recycling Management 
Program, Filtering Change, in 2011.  As the first filter manufacturer to initiate an internal recycling management program that 
enables customers to be environmentally 
responsible, this program is aimed at partnering with service centers and fleet 
locations throughout the United States  
and globally to reduce the number of  metal filter cans and used media  
elements being dumped into landfills. 
Recycling content is important to  
Cummins Filtration’s sourcing decisions. 
Currently, 20 percent of Cummins Filtration’s 
50,000 tons of integrated steel used to produce filter shells comes from recycled 
metal along with 80 percent of the  
25,000 tons mini-mill steel used to  produce other filter components.
Filtering Change is designed to provide 
customers with the resources and support necessary to successfully integrate filter  
recycling into their daily operations. 
 
Careful inspection at Cummins’ 
remanufacturing business 
determines if parts can be 
remanufactured or salvaged.  
In 2011, the business kept 
some 50 million pounds of 
Cummins product on the road.Cummins’ China Area Business Organization Group  
Vice President Steven Chapman speaks at a Cummins  
Emission Solutions event in Beijing, China where a new  
EcoFit Urea Dosing System was introduced.ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
24    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012
Cogeneration is the production of two kinds 
of energy — usually electricity and heat — 
from a single source of fuel. Cogeneration 
can replace traditional methods of supplying energy from multiple sources; for example, 
purchasing electricity from the power grid 
and burning natural gas or oil separately in  a furnace to produce heat or steam.
These methods can waste up to two-
thirds of the energy in the original fuel. With cogeneration, 70 to 90 percent of 
the energy in the original fuel is put to 
productive use and total energy savings  can be 30 percent or more.
A cogeneration system normally consists of 
some kind of machine turning an alternator to produce electricity and a waste heat 
recovery system capturing the heat from  
the exhaust and cooling water jacket. Cummins has 430 megawatts (MW)  
of cogeneration installations globally  
with an average project size of 2 MW.  These installations represent a greenhouse 
gas reduction of about one million metric 
tons of CO
2 per year for our customers. 
The Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, 
Australia is a recent installation that uses 
CHP to increase efficiency and lower its carbon footprint.  This 100,000 metric-foot site relies on four  2 MW generator sets for its CHP solution.
Barcelona, Spain is host to one of INDITEX 
Group’s Logistics Centers. The center covers 200,000 square meters. The CHP 
plant there generates 2.3 MW of electricity 
that can be used at the center or sold back to the grid.
Generator Technologies
Cummins Generator Technologies offer 
premium quality AC generators in the  
range 0.6 to 20,000 Kilo Volt Amperes 
(kVA). Our family of brands – MARKON, STAMFORD and AvK – are known for  
their robust build, reliable performance  
and versatile configurations.
When a local consortium of German 
farmers contacted neighboring generating 
set manufacturer SCHNELL Motoren AG for help building a biogas power plant, 
SCHNELL turned to Cummins Generator 
Technologies to supply highly efficient STAMFORD HC4 generators. 
The plant owners supply agricultural  
matter, which is fermented to create  biogas, which in-turn is converted by the 
CHP / Cogeneration plant into electricity. Manejo de Totes, or the Reusable Totes 
Loyalty Program, was introduced in Mexico 
and Central America during 2011. Totes 
are containers that hold antifreeze, coolants and urea for shipment to customers. The 
program involves the delivery of specialized 
pumping equipment and logistical services for dispensing bulk Fleetguard ES Compleat 
coolant at the site location.
By utilizing these specialized totes, 
operators not only significantly reduce  
their operation costs, but eliminate the  
need for landfilling used totes as the initial 1000 liter (264 gallon) EG premix tote 
purchased can continue to be refilled 
beyond the life of the equipment. 
Cummins Filtration designs products 
that remove contamination from engine 
systems, reduce engine emissions and minimize disposal issues. As the only 
filter manufacturer that’s part of an engine 
company, Cummins Filtration has a key technology advantage that has resulted  
in a number of innovations including:
 »PG Platinum is a NAPS free propylene 
glycol coolant, which means it contains no nitrites, amines, phosphates or 
silicates. These compounds are 
perceived by many global equipment manufacturers to have an undesirable effect on the environment and make it more difficult to maintain coolant additive 
levels. Propylene glycol is recognized  
as non-hazardous, non-poisonous  and is generally considered safe by  the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
 »Crankcase Ventilation systems filter up to 100 percent of oil drip, up to 95 percent  of aerosol vapors and 100 percent of  engine compartment fumes.  Since crankcase emissions can contribute up to 25 percent of total 
emissions, control of this air pollution 
source is critical to the protection  of the environment and meeting  emission standards. 
 »Filter-in-Filter combines two filters in a single cartridge, which is then contained within a reusable housing. This design approach provides maximum protection for the engine and reduces the amount  
of waste material during regular fuel 
system maintenance. 
Made of composite material, this design 
reduces volatile organic compounds 
because the filters no longer require painting. The reformulated paper media 
does not require curing, reducing power 
consumption within the production facility, and avoiding the use of plastisol adhesive.
POWER GENERATION 
Cummins Power Generation is dedicated  
to increasing the availability and reliability  of electric power around the world.  We are committed to developing and 
implementing products and solutions  
that benefit the communities where  we do business and contribute to comprehensive environmental solutions. 
Cogeneration
Cummins Power Generation designs 
and builds cogeneration systems used around the globe in various applications. 
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) systems 
are providing power to hospitals, schools, sports complexes and commercial facilities.
The Royal North Shore hospital 
in Sydney, Australia chose a 
Cummins cogeneration solution 
to meet emission targets and 
improve energy efficiency as 
part of a major expansion.ENVIRONMENT
26    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    27
Waste heat created during the process 
is then captured and used to heat their 
greenhouses, with enough spare to  
heat the local SCHNELL offices.
This project is a great example of a CHP 
plant; in addition to producing electricity 
to sell to the public grid, energy typically wasted is captured and used to heat the 
SCHNELL company building. 
Other Products
Cummins’ Advanced Medium Mobile Power 
Sources (AMMPS) is a new line of mobile 
power generators for military use whose environmental and logistical benefits include 
greater fuel efficiency, lighter weight, quieter 
operations and increased reliability with a lower total lifecycle cost. 
AMMPS generators are 21 percent more  
fuel efficient than their predecessors, which saves fuel in use and in the transport of  
fuel to the generators. 
DC generators offer a cost-effective and 
environmentally-friendly alternative to 
conventional large battery reserve systems 
and traditional AC generators used to power remote community access TV, 
telecom and wireless tower sites. 
They continuously monitor the battery 
system and seamlessly restore power 
should battery backup fail or a prolonged 
power outage occur. Not only are generators generally more fuel efficient,  
DC generators reduce the number of  
onsite batteries needed and protect the smaller number of batteries required, 
resulting in fewer disposal issues.
A hybrid generator set is a great  
example of how Cummins is using 
technology to reduce fuel consumption  
by recreational vehicle (RV) owners as  well as noise pollution.By using a combination of inverters,  power unit and coach batteries,  
Cummins Power Generation has  
been able to reduce generator fuel consumption by up to 20 percent. 
Power Generation has also been able  
to reduce noise pollution by 5 decibels.
While this number may not seem very big,  
it represents about a 40 percent reduction 
in audible sound levels. In addition, the hybrid generator weighs up to 374 pounds 
less than the Company’s large diesel 
generators. This translates directly into better fuel economy for RVs, which in turn 
means a reduction in their carbon footprint. 
Customer-Focused Six Sigma
Two Customer-Focused Six Sigma  
projects are demonstrating the 
environmental benefit and potential  savings possible when a power solution  
is tailored to address a particular need. 
The business problem solving process 
called for extending the time in between oil 
changes in a generator set and shortening 
the monthly genset exercise period while maintaining the integrity of the equipment 
used for emergency backup power.
These actions, over a 300-genset fleet in 
data centers, are adding up to big savings 
for a large Power Generation customer.  
The two projects collectively are saving 38,000 gallons of oil, 65,000 gallons of 
diesel fuel and $620,000 per year.
“Both of these projects demonstrate 
that our customers are very interested in 
both bottom-line savings and care for the 
environment – and when both can happen as a result of a project collaboration, that’s 
even better,” said Jaime Queiroz, Executive 
Director of Power Solutions.PROdUCT EMISSIONS
The on-highway charts for North America compare the estimated maximum allowable emissions by U.S. EPA  
standards and Cummins’ estimate of engine emissions for the past three years. Estimates are based on the  
number of engines, both heavy-duty and midrange, manufactured in the United States for on-highway use per year.
The figures in the off-highway charts are based on the number of midrange, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines  
produced to EPA standards for non-road uses.
010020030040050022003200
Nitrogen Oxides
NOx
2009 2010 2011
HydrocarbonsHC
2009 2010 2011
Carbon MonoxideCO
2009 2010 2011
Particulate MatterPM
2009 2010 2011. . . . . .
. . .
. . .
. . .
. . .
. . . EPA allowed
Cummins produced 244
28 11
050100150Automotive 
(On-highway)
2009 2010 2011Non-road
2009 2010 2011100
109
144
43 2968
16
62 
High Horsepower Heavy-Duty
MidRange
0100200300400500
Nitrogen Oxides
+ HydrocarbonsNOx + HC
2009 2010 2011
Carbon MonoxideCO
2009 2010 2011
Particulate MatterPM
2009 2010 2011AUTOMOTIVE (ON-HIGHWAY) USEFUL LIFE EMISSIONS TOTAL 
IN THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS
NON-ROAd USEFUL LIFE EMISSIONS TOTAL IN THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONSdIESEL ENGINE VOLUMES IN THOUSANDSFit for Market is a Cummins 
strategy to meet customer 
requirements by using the 
Company’s knowledge, tools and technologies to deliver 
low-cost products with the 
right capability for each market in every global region. 
This is not a one-size-fits-
all approach, but a strategy 
to listen to customers and 
understand the specific demands of the environment 
where they do business.
Cummins has a portfolio  
of technologies that can be 
adapted to meet the power 
needs of specific markets, taking into account local 
product and application 
requirements, the local  service environment and  
local manufacturing capability.FIT FOR MARkETENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
28    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    29
ABOUT qSk95
Horsepower: More than 4000-hp
Cylinders: 16Applications: The QSK95 is ideally suited for  
applications such as passenger and freight locomotives, many types of marine vessels, mine haul trucks and more. The engine can also be used on offshore oil  and gas platforms for drilling and will power the new C3000 Series genset from Cummins Power Generation.
Emissions: The QSK95 will meet the most stringent 
emission standards, including EPA Tier 4 Final taking effect in 2015. The engine uses the Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) aftertreatment designed by Cummins  to replace the exhaust muffler.
Production: The QSK95 will be built at the  
Seymour, Ind. Engine Plant where $100 million  is being invested to establish a new production  line and world-class test facilities.
To meet the very low emission standards  
in the EPA’s Tier 4 Final, the diesel 
Hedgehog will use Cummins’ Selective 
Catalytic Reduction (SCR) aftertreatment system, which has a proven track record  
for significantly reducing the Oxides of 
Nitrogen (NOx) associated with air  pollution and smog. 
The SCR system also achieves diesel  
fuel savings of five to ten percent with  a corresponding reduction in carbon  
dioxide (CO
2), a key contributor to 
greenhouse gases.
In addition to those environmental  
benefits, the Hedgehog platform was designed with remanufacturing in mind. 
Working from a “clean sheet” on the 
QSK95, designers were able to consider remanufacturing in almost every aspect  
of the engine.
 
 For example, the engine block is made  
with a little extra metal so when it comes 
time for milling during remanufacturing  it will be easier to bring the block back  
to original specifications.
Creating a new engine platform also  
allowed engineers to design Hedgehog  
with cleaner-burning natural gas in mind. 
Leveraging the base architecture of 
Hedgehog’s diesel engine, the natural  
gas platform will be fully optimized to  
deliver market leading performance.
“The natural gas engines will not be just a 
derivative of the diesel engines, but uniquely 
designed for gas,” said Mark Levett, Cummins Vice President and General 
Manager – High Horsepower Business.
The Hedgehog family will be growing.  
Plans are in the works for the QSK120, 
adding four cylinders while using the same 
platform to achieve over 5,000 horsepower.But Cummins’ new 16-cylinder QSK95 engine, the largest high-speed diesel engine the Company has ever built, has a number 
of environmentally friendly qualities.
Foremost among them: the engine, the 
first of the “Hedgehog” family of engines, 
will meet the most stringent emissions 
standards, including U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Tier 4 Final 
regulations that take effect in 2015.  
The EPA regulations cover the  off-highway, marine, locomotive,  
and power generation markets. 
“A key achievement of our combustion 
analysis-led work is that the QSK95 makes no performance compromise to meet very low emission standards – an advantage  that few, if any other, large high-speed  
or medium-speed engines will be able  
to claim for Tier 4,” said Jim Trueblood,  Vice President – Cummins High 
Horsepower Engineering.
The Hedgehog platform was unveiled  
Nov. 1, 2011 at the Seymour, Ind.  
Engine Plant where it was fired up  
for Cummins employees, reporters and potential customers. The engine is being 
marketed for use in passenger and freight 
locomotives; boats, including tugs and towboats; mining and off-shore drilling  
and power generation systems.
Mark Levett, Cummins 
Vice President and General 
Manager – High Horsepower 
Business, talks about  
the QSK95 engine at its 
unveiling in Seymour, Ind.Hedgehog: Big can still be green
It’s hard to imagine something eight feet tall, 14 feet long 
and capable of producing 4,000 horsepower could ever  
be considered “green.” 
ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    31
And on top of that, the plant has  
reduced associated annual operating  
costs by $159,000. 
Darlington achieved its “zero landfill” status 
by making waste reduction a plant priority, 
and then using processes, tools and 
resources – most notably its employees  and suppliers – to provide a structured 
program that delivers results. 
“The success of this project is the Cummins 
Operating System in action,” said Helen 
Hutchings, the plant’s Health, Safety  
and Environment Manager, referring to 10 practices and approaches designated by the Company to improve customer 
satisfaction and profitability (page 11).
“It combined a rigorous process with 
employee passion to produce an important 
achievement for the plant, and more importantly, for the environment,” she said.
The plant used the established protocols 
in its Environmental Management System to make waste management a priority. 
This designation then cascaded specific 
resources, training and communications  to plant employees supporting the effort. Color-coded recycling stations made recycling very visible and easy to do at 
the plant. But not all of the plant’s materials 
are the numbered plastics, glass, paper and other items readily recyclable. So working 
with the plant’s supply chain was critical  
on the journey to zero. 
A contractor sorted and processed some 
of the more difficult materials. Another 
key supplier helped to find a recyclable substitute for packaging material that 
previously was disposed in a landfill. 
Cummins’ philosophy is that simply  
burning waste is not a legitimate way to achieve zero landfill status. The plant 
handled every waste material by either 
recycling or obtaining environmental value  
through burning it for energy recovery.
Less than three percent of the waste  
was burned. Darlington is the first Cummins 
plant to achieve zero landfill status with 
such a significant emphasis on recycling. 
At Cummins and in Darlington, zero landfill 
truly means zero waste disposal. And in  
that way, zero really can be a big number.Ten years in the making, Cummins  
Emission Solutions is demonstrating  
that a company can be green and  profitable at the same time. 
Sales for the exhaust aftertreatment  
maker have gone from nothing in 2002 to $1.2 billion in 2011 while Cummins Emission  
Solutions’ workforce has grown from just  11 employees to more than 1,400 today.
“This is all about green jobs,” said Srikanth 
Padmanabhan, Vice President and General 
Manager of Cummins Emission Solutions. 
Early on, the emphasis at the business 
was on noise reduction and eliminating 
the clatter associated with diesel engines. Governments around the world, however, 
began clamping down on the amount of 
pollution engines were allowed to emit.Cummins leaders decided to embrace  
that trend rather than fight it, figuring  
the Company’s technological leadership could be a competitive advantage.
Cummins Emission Solutions began  
to take off and with tougher emissions standards scheduled to take effect  
in the coming years in countries like  
China, India and Russia, sales are  only expected to grow.
Padmanabhan says attracting a highly 
skilled workforce is now his chief concern. Ten years ago, a Cummins engineer could 
simply add a filter to make an exhaust 
system compliant.
To meet today’s more stringent regulations, 
multiple devices are necessary to reduce 
emissions while providing engine operators the power they need to succeed.Profitable and green after 10 years
zero can be a big number
Since January 2011, the Cummins Darlington (U.K.)  
Engine Plant hasn’t sent any waste to a landfill.  
That’s nothing in more than 16 months. Zero. Nada.
Helen Hutchings, 
Darlington’s Health, Safety 
and Environment Manager, 
stands next to one of the 
recycling bins around 
the plant. The facility has 
reached “zero landfill” 
status in part because  of its major emphasis  
on recycling.
Cummins Emission Solutions employees in Mineral Point, 
Wis. celebrate the 2011 launch of the Off-Highway EPA Tier 4 
compliant aftertreatment product 
line. The ceremony also marked  
a diversity milestone in the business’ history. It was led by 
two female managers – then 
Off-Highway Business General Manager Julie Furber and 
Rachel Lecrone, plant manager.
ENVIRONMENT
32    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    33
-70%-50%0%50%100%140%2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015GHG reduction
goal of -40%Normalized GHG Emissions (intensity)
Normalized Emissions GoalActual GHG EmissionsCMI Revenue (2005 constant $)
-28% ACHIEVED
Cummins reduced its GHG 
emissions by 28 percent  
per dollar of revenue from 
2005 to 2010, exceeding  
the 25 percent reduction  
goal it set with the U.S. EPA.efficiency improvements made over the first 
five-year period,” said Alan Resnik, Director 
of Corporate Environmental Management.
Cummins exceeded its first goal  
of a 25 percent reduction in GHG  
emissions per dollar of revenue, achieving  
a 28 percent reduction. Revenue increased 67 percent between the start of 2009  
and the end of 2011.
Based in part on that accomplishment, 
Cummins was named a winner in the GHG 
goal achievement category of the Inaugural 
Climate Leadership Awards sponsored  by the EPA, the Association of Climate 
Change Officers, the Center for Climate  
and Energy Solutions (formerly the Pew Center on Global Climate Change) and  
The Climate Registry.
The award recognizes corporate, 
organizational and individual leadership  
in addressing climate change and  
reducing carbon emissions. One  individual and 20 organizations were recognized earlier in 2012. In naming Cummins, the award sponsors said:
“The Company made the business case  
for reducing emissions to its employees and has created a culture of energy saving and 
sustainability that is now part of how the 
company does business. Other activities included the establishment of an energy 
efficiency team, as well as a capital fund 
that helped create dedicated, annual funding for energy efficiency improvements. 
“Cummins also created a corporate-wide 
challenge to involve all employees in saving energy, and its Energy Champions Program 
trained employees to find energy savings at 
their sites.”
In 2011, Cummins saw nearly flat absolute  
GHG emissions from 2010 on a 36 percent 
revenue increase, which equates to a  16 percent intensity reduction. The 
Company achieved a 46 percent intensity 
reduction from our base year of 2005.ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Cummins has the ability to make a 
significant impact on the environment.  Our employees have a passion for it and 
want to make a difference at work, at home 
and in their communities. The Company understands it is our responsibility as a 
good corporate citizen to also be a good 
steward of our air, land and water. We have demonstrated our commitment by achieving 
significant reductions in our greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, our generation of waste and in our use of water. 
Cummins is expanding the scope of  
the Climate Change Working Group to  include all aspects of the environment 
and in the process changed its name to 
the Action Committee for Environmental Sustainability, or ACES, to reflect the  
larger sphere of influence and directive  
in environmental matters.
This leadership group – which will involve all 
businesses, all functions and all locations – 
will bring together many successful efforts currently working independently into a 
comprehensive work plan for environmental 
sustainability. The committee will evaluate  Cummins’ overall impact on the 
environment and establish a global strategy 
to reduce the Company’s environmental footprint. ACES will give us one global  
voice and ensure accountability. 
AIR / ENERGY
Cummins has extended its GHG reduction 
goal from the 28 percent reduction achieved 
in 2010 as part of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Climate Leaders 
Program to a 40 percent reduction by  
2015, again using 2005 as a baseline. 
The greenhouse gas reduction correlates 
to the 25 percent energy efficiency intensity 
goal Cummins has set as part of the Department of Energy’s Better Buildings, 
Better Plants Challenge program. 
“We are ensuring we have a sound 
investment plan to meet this aggressive 
goal, which equates to double the energy Cummins demonstrates good environmental stewardship  
through our products, practices and our partnerships.  
Here’s a look at our activity in all three areas:ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARdSHIP // PRACTICES
Practices
Cummins doesn’t just talk about environmental stewardship. 
The Company puts its words into action. Here are some  
of the ways we ensure that “everything we do leads  
to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment.”
ENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    35
Building Envelope
Efficient windows, doors, 
walls and roof reduce heat 
gain or loss 
Heating & Cooling
High efficiency heating, 
cooling and recirculation systems
Machinery & Equipment
Substantial improvements 
in motors, pumps and 
compressed air systems
Fuel Usage
Energy efficient boilers, 
burners and test cells 
Energy Recovery
Capture waste heat for 
productive use elsewhere
Power Management
Systems and procedures for energy savings 
Lighting
High efficiency “smart” lighting reduces 
operating costs
Conserving energy is a key 
issue at Cummins. These 
seven themes provide structure 
for the Company’s energy 
reduction efforts, saving more 
than $20 million annually.How Cummins saves energy 
We have successfully completed multiple 
projects related to manufacturing process 
redesign, improved waste segregation, 
increased employee engagement and supplier partnerships to reduce waste, and 
we continue to make capital investments in 
equipment to facilitate waste reduction and increase our ability to recycle. 
These efforts have helped Cummins reduce 
raw materials consumption, energy use, water use and operating costs. 
Cummins has reduced process hazardous 
waste generation in the United States by approximately 50 percent, on an absolute 
basis, from 2008. 
In 2011, Cummins reduced labor-
normalized process hazardous waste  
by 52 percent from 2008 levels. This substantial reduction was  
achieved through a multi-faceted effort  
that included product substitutions, 
improved waste segregation, improved inventory management and increased 
efficiency in painting operations. 
Product substitutions, in particular,  
have had an enormous impact on  
our hazardous waste generation.  
Several facilities, for example, have successfully replaced solvent-based  
paints with water-based paints. 
The Columbus MidRange Engine Plant  
in Walesboro, Ind. took the effort to the  
next level by producing engines with 
no paint on them, using clear coating that prevents rust instead, and reduced 
hazardous waste per engine by 80 percent. However, Cummins’ goal is measured  
by 2015 performance, not the yearly 
progress in between. The Company  
is, therefore, doing thorough capital and low-cost energy efficiency planning to offset 
future GHG increases from new product 
development testing and the construction of more than 40 new facilities and major 
expansion projects.
Cummins joint ventures are also engaging 
in energy efficiency actions. For example, 
the Chongqing Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. 
(CCEC) in China has taken an active part in supporting the Cummins Engine Company’s 
global actions on energy-savings and 
GHG emissions reduction and won the Company’s annual energy efficiency award. 
 In 2011, CCEC created an energy 
management team that identified numerous 
opportunities to save energy by replacing 
pieces of equipment that were consuming a lot of energy such as larger boilers and 
a high-voltage transformer. At the end of 
2011, the joint venture estimated it could reduce carbon dioxide (CO
2) by 2,100 tons 
annually and save $428,000 per year. 
LANd
In 2011, Cummins comprehensively 
characterized and evaluated our global 
waste footprint. The results of this effort 
serve as the foundation for the development of a formal waste minimization strategy 
that will complement the many waste 
reduction improvements that are already being realized through our Environmental 
Management System. 
Even with substantial revenue growth, 
Cummins has been able to keep our 
2011 disposal level flat in absolute terms 
compared to 2008, while experiencing  a 20 percent reduction in waste disposal 
normalized for labor hours during that  
same time period. 
One of our large manufacturing facilities 
recently announced it had achieved  
“zero landfill” status (page 31).
Several additional facilities are ready to  
take on the same challenge. The approach 
used by these sites will serve as the basis  of our formal waste minimization process 
used throughout our global operations.
 
 
 
 These 10 principles form  
the basis to Cummins’  
environmental  
sustainability initiatives.
ENVIRONMENT
Our own products and processes               Partnering with others                                                                                     Public policy efforts
Four principles shape 
our ef forts towar d sound 
public policy .Six principles dir ect our 
company actions for pr oducts, 
businesses, employees and communities.Environmental
SustainabilityPrinciplesDevelop
environmentallysustainable
supply chains
Grow and develop
new businesses
Develop
clean, efﬁcientproducts
Harness the
energy of employees
Make work spacesgreen spacesAdvocate forincentives to
accelerate progressSupport a balanced
global appr oachPromote
technologyHelp developresponsible
regulationsEngage inthe communityENVIRONMENT
36    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    37
and a water scorecard that combines 
leading and lagging metrics. 
In 2011, Cummins reduced water use 
normalized for labor hours by 18 percent from 2010 levels. That brought our total 
labor-normalized water-use reduction to  
45 percent since 2008. 
Of perhaps even greater significance, 
Cummins reduced absolute water use  
in 2011 by approximately 5 percent or  60 million gallons. 
However, the Company’s accelerated effort 
in effective water management is about more than just successful conservation 
results. It is also about understanding  
 what water use means to our business,  our communities and our environment. 
In 2011, Cummins made significant strides 
in developing this understanding by conducting water management surveys  
of sites across the Cummins’ enterprise.
By pairing local site knowledge with  
global water availability data, Cummins  
is able to prioritize efforts that will have 
the greatest impact. 
The Company is now conducting a  
series of water source assessments at  
our highest priority sites located in both India and Mexico, two regions that face 
water scarcity challenges. WATER
Water conservation has been a critical issue 
at Cummins for some time. Since 2008, 
the Company has collected water-use data to support water conservation efforts at 
sites throughout Cummins. In 2012, the 
Company will further strengthen its water management efforts by assessing risks at 
priority locations in water-stressed areas in 
addition to setting a company-wide water conservation goal.
Since more than 60 percent of the 
Company’s business is in international markets, Cummins recognizes the 
challenges associated with the rising  global issue of water and has for several 
years focused on conserving water and 
reducing wastewater discharges.
The Company continues to accelerate 
our efforts in effective water management, 
recognizing the growing significance of this 
resource throughout our global footprint. Last year, Cummins identified three  
focus areas for water conservation at our 
locations: grounds, facilities, and processes. 
Cummins sites focused on these areas 
for conservation opportunities and again 
achieved positive results by calculating their water balances (a formal exercise that 
defines water intakes, uses, and discharges) 
Recycled metals
in thousands of metric tons
2008 2009 2010 2011
 
Copper & brass 0.67 0.58 0.73 1.00 
Aluminum 1.08 0.75 0.68 0.87
Iron 104.89 78.84 97.25 106.29020406080100120Recycled metals
in thousands of metric tonsOther recycled materials
in thousands of metric tons
2008 2009 2010 2011
 
Paper 0.44 0.51 0.39 0.58 
Plastic 0.93 0.80 1.10 1.33
Wood 17.87 13.47 18.55 24.50
Cardboard 10.99 10.70 13.83 16.2901020304050Other recycled materials
in thousands of metric tons
Total water use
Water use normalized 
to labor hours 
2008 1.38 B 
2009 1.15 B 
2010 1.14 B  
2011 1.08 B 
0.00.51.01.52.0
Total water use
in billions of gallons
2008 2009 2010 2011-50%-30%-10%10%30%50%
Hour normalized
water useTotal water use 
in billions of gallons
Total water use
in billions of gallonsProcess hazardous waste
in thousands of pounds
050100150200250
2008 2009 2010 2011-60%-40%-20%0%20%40%60%
Hour normalized
hazardous waste
Waste generated 
in metric tons
Total hazardous waste
Hazardous waste 
normalized to labor hours 
2008 199 
2009 159 
2010 98  
2011 100 U.S. process hazardous waste
in metric tons
Total landﬁll waste
Landﬁll waste 
normalized to labor hours
05,00010,00015,00020,00025,000
Landﬁll waste
in metric tons
2008 2009 2010 2011-30-20-100102030
Hour normalized
landﬁll wasteWaste generated 
in metric tons
 
2008 18,961 
2009 14,180 
2010 15,651  
2011 16,855 Landfill waste
in metric tons
* All waste totals exclude waste from the Distribution Business Unit.ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
38    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    39
In 2011, environmental improvements as 
a result of specifically-set objectives and 
targets completed totaled $14.5 million. 
As the Company’s HSEMS continues  
to mature, Cummins has aligned its  
efforts along key resource areas  
including greenhouse gases, water  and waste. These focus areas drive  
specific activities related to each  
resource area. Examples include:
 »Water balances: Sites developed a water 
balance to identify their key uses and  
discharges of water to help identify  
and prioritize water improvement efforts.
 »Waste inventories: Sites developed comprehensive waste inventories as  
part of Cummins’ effort to minimize  
waste disposal through a structured waste management hierarchy of  reduce, reuse, and recycle.
 »Energy: Cummins leveraged the HSEMS 
to ensure that all sites make energy and 
greenhouse gas reduction a priority.
Cummins uses Six Sigma to analyze data 
and support complex decision-making, 
including environmental management.  In 2011, Cummins completed 57 projects 
that were specifically dedicated to 
environmental matters.HEALTH, SAFETY  
ANd ENVIRONMENTAL  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Cummins delivers health, safety, and 
environmental (HSE) management results through a HSE Management System 
(HSEMS). Our integrated, enterprise 
system provides a common approach to HSE management across the globe, and 
capitalizes on the many similarities between 
safety and environmental management systems. The HSEMS provides common 
direction to our sites, while providing 
flexibility to adapt to regional priorities. 
At Cummins, the HSEMS is our culture. 
By the end of 2011, our independent 
auditor certified 76 sites and the corporate entity as part of the Enterprise HSEMS, 
conformant with ISO14001, the international 
environmental management standard. These sites represent 84 percent of our 
manufacturing locations, with a goal to 
increase that to 100 percent by the  end of 2012. The Company is not stopping there. Cummins manages our potential 
environmental impact by continually 
broadening the HSEMS scope to  include joint venture sites and other  
critical operations such as our  
Distribution Business. 
Even smaller sites, such as office buildings 
and small parts distribution centers,  
while not included in the HSEMS scope, benefit from the tools, resources and  
culture instilled within the organization. 
OBJECTIVES ANd TARGETS
The HSEMS uses a structured program 
of setting objectives and targets to drive 
continual improvement at our sites. 
Broad objectives and targets are set at 
the corporate level to establish direction 
for critical corporate initiatives. Cummins’ business units and sites then build upon 
them to establish site-specific objectives 
that align with company priorities but address site-specific needs and challenges.
Cummins GHG emissions by country Cummins GHG emissions by business unit
Europe  1%
Mexico 3%Other  5%
United Kingdom  7%India  13%
China  16%
United States  55%Emission Solutions 2%Corporate 3%Distribution 5%Turbo Technologies 5%Fuel Systems 6%Filtration 8%Power Generation 10%Engine Business 60%Cummins GHG emissions by country Cummins GHG emissions by business0200400600800Total GHG emissions
in thousands of metric tons CO2e
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Mobile sources 30 30 28 29 30
Fugitive SF6, CO2 165 170 7 7 9
Stationary combustion 178 194 175 186 183
Electricity, other 452 436 395 433 434
  U.S. 282 295 128 128 126
 Non-U.S. 87 98 82 95 95
   U.S. 348 328 291 308 302
 Non-U.S. 122 108 104 125 132  2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
 DIRECT
INDIRECTTotal GHG emissions
in thousands of metric tons CO2e
U.S. and Non-U.S. GHG emissionsin thousands of metric tons CO
2eENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    41
As of May 2012, five solar arrays, or 
groups of solar panels, had been installed 
at Cummins’ facilities around the world, 
capable of generating up to 230 kilowatts (kW) of power. They replaced carbon-based 
sources of energy. 
While still modest compared to the Company’s  
use of other sources of electricity, these 
solar arrays have energized Cummins’ 
exploration of solar energy as one way to 
help shrink the Company’s carbon footprint.
“We have set aggressive targets for  
further greenhouse gas reductions,”  
said Mark Dhennin, Cummins’ Director of Energy Efficiency for the Corporate 
Environmental Management Group.  
“That’s why investing in renewable technologies such as solar is so important 
to shrinking our carbon footprint.”
Cummins Turbo Technologies in 
Huddersfield, U.K. led the way in  
2011, followed a few months later by 
installations at two Cummins Power Generation facilities in Minnesota. An engine plant in Daventry, U.K. and a Cummins Generator Technologies plant  
in Stamford, U.K. complete the list of 
facilities now using energy from the sun  in a significant way for their operations.
Attractive tax, rebate and feed-in-tariff 
incentives (which require utilities to pay a set price for power generated by private solar installations), combined with the financial 
and project-management support from the 
Cummins Energy Efficiency Team, led to  the solar panel projects at these locations.
Collectively, the five main solar arrays are 
saving the Company about $32,000 per year while reducing carbon dioxide by  
about 120 metric tons annually.
Dhennin says solar power remains relatively 
expensive compared to other sources 
of energy and its use is largely driven by 
government incentives and utility rebates. But these larger demonstration projects 
show solar can play an important role in the 
Company’s overall climate protection efforts.AUdITOR CERTIFICATION PROGRAM
Environmental goals are measured through 
a structured audit process. A third party 
auditor, Bureau Veritas Certification (BVC), certifies our enterprise system and the  
data we collect. Cummins supplements 
the audit sampling conducted by BVC by conducting annual audits using internally 
trained HSE auditors. Every site is audited 
on an annual basis.
Since the launch of our internal auditor 
certification program in 2006, we have 
trained more than 100 persons and certified more than 45 HSE leaders as certified HSE 
auditors. This structured audit program 
validates performance and provides a mechanism for sites to share best practices. 
Through these practices, Cummins is not 
only improving sites – it is building our  next generation of HSE leaders.
HEALTH, SAFETY ANd 
ENVIRONMENT AWARdS
In 2005, Cummins created the Health, 
Safety and Environment Awards to 
recognize employees and sites that excel in 
the commitment to world class performance and environmental stewardship.
Winners of the 2011 awards presented 
their projects to the Cummins Board of Directors and participated in an exhibition 
that provided an opportunity for others in 
the Company to familiarize themselves  with these best practices.
In 2011, a record number of projects  
vied for environmental awards. In the  energy efficiency category alone, Cummins 
had 27 projects compete for an award.  
The growing number and quality of the projects demonstrates that Cummins’ 
employees embrace and celebrate 
environmental stewardship.
Crews install the last solar 
panel on the roof of Office 
Block 1 in Huddersfield, U.K.  
The solar array was the first application on a large scale.Let the sun shine in!
For the first time, Cummins facilities in  
2011 were powered in part by solar energy.Cummins new facility in Izmir, Turkey incorporates many of 
the green features now specified as standard in Cummins new construction, such as rain water harvesting, skylights 
and motion sensors to control lighting.
The facility, which opened earlier this year and will initially  
be home to employees of Cummins Generator Technologies and Cummins Filtration, was designed with expansion in 
mind. The infrastructure for future efficiency (compressed 
air and building management system) is modular and expandable so any future addition will not require an investment in base infrastructure.
GREEN BUILdING IS FORWARd LOOkINGENVIRONMENT
42    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    43
The black, red and white wedges that  
line the center’s interior chamber are filled with sound-absorbing insulation material 
and enclosed in a perforated metal shell. 
The ceiling is curved to allow sound to dissipate rather than be reflected as it  does off flat surfaces.
The testing center also allows for greater  
opportunities in research and development. Pinpointing the sources of noise in a  generator helps Cummins Power Generation design quieter products.
The facility was built in accordance with 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) guidelines for green building design. The heating system is 82 percent  
efficient and electrical consumption is less 
than the LEED requirement.More than three-quarters of the construction materials have been  recycled or salvaged. The building  
materials include recycled or partially 
recycled metal paneling, fly ash  concrete and locally sourced materials  such as steel made from ore mined in 
northern Minnesota.
In addition, the center was built on  
a site that qualifies as a brownfield redevelopment by the U.S. Green  Building Council. Brownfields are land 
previously used for industrial purposes  
that can be difficult to redevelop. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency promotes cleaning up brownfields and finding new 
uses for them.Silence is precisely the point of the Company’s new sound-testing facility in 
Fridley, Minn., built next to the Cummins Power Generation plant. With its curved roof and sound-absorbing acoustical wedges lining the walls and ceiling,  
the distinctive-looking center is the  
largest facility of its kind in the industry.
The facility is expected to significantly 
change how Cummins does its sound 
testing. By working in a controlled, indoor environment, unwanted noise is eliminated, leaving just the sound from the generator 
itself to be precisely measured. Noise is an environmental issue that is becoming increasingly important as 
customers and government regulators demand quieter power systems. 
In the United States, the first federal law 
regarding noise control was enacted 
in 1972, though noise is regulated at 
the local level today. The European Union has specific noise limits through a 2002 directive, and a recent report to 
the European Parliament and Council 
called environmental noise a “significant environmental problem across the EU”  due to its health impact.
“Noise really is an emission because  
it influences the environment in which 
people live,” said Martin Myers, Cummins Director of Global Applied Technology  and the primary user of the new facility, 
which opened in October of 2011.
He says the new building is also making the 
surrounding neighborhood a quieter place.
“We really want to be a good neighbor,” 
Myers said. “By constructing this building,  
by putting the investment in, we are no 
longer affecting our neighbors when  we are running generator tests.”
With its curved roof and 
sound-absorbing acoustical 
wedges, Cummins Acoustical 
Testing Center in Fridley, Minn. 
is the largest facility of its  
kind in the industry.The interior of the center  uses wedges filled with sound 
absorbing material to control 
sound so engineers can pinpoint sounds and  
develop quieter generators.Silence is music to neighbor’s ears
There was no brass band or wild applause when the  
doors to Cummins’ Acoustical Testing Center (ATC)  
first swung open to the public in the fall of 2011.  
Instead, visitors were greeted by silence.
ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
44    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    45
Cummins’ environmental sustainability 
principles shape the Company’s actions not 
only in the United States, but around the 
world. Cummins participates in the Global Commercial Vehicle industry forum, a group 
comprised of European, North American 
and Japanese manufacturers of heavy-duty vehicles and engines. At the group’s 
ninth meeting in Tokyo in late 2011, topics 
such as regulatory harmonization, GHG reductions and fuel efficiency improvements 
were at the forefront of the discussion.
Cummins is also becoming more involved 
in GHG and fuel efficiency regulatory 
development in Europe, China and other 
regions of the world. In fact, Cummins has dedicated resources to focus specifically 
on the policies involving GHG and fuel 
efficiency regulations for our products around the world.
This will help us better coordinate the 
Company’s global activities in developing responsible regulations that promote 
technologies for more efficient products 
with lower GHG emissions in diesel  engines and related technologies.U.S. dEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
Cummins has long worked in partnership 
with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) 
to develop advances in energy efficiency. Previous Cummins programs funded by 
the DOE have led to both evolutionary and 
breakthrough technologies and analytical approaches, speeding up the time for the 
commercialization of vehicles powered by 
advanced combustion engines. 
The Company received a $54 million grant 
from the DOE in 2010 for two projects 
it is currently working on to improve fuel efficiency in heavy-duty and light-duty 
vehicles. The DOE’s heavy-duty program – 
SuperTruck – is featured earlier in this  report (page 14). 
Energy efficiency represents an  
enormous opportunity to cut costs and greenhouse gas emissions. Buildings 
consume 70 percent of the electricity  
in the United States and emit more  than a third of greenhouse gases.GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY
Four of the Company’s 10 environmental 
sustainability principles focus on partnerships with legislative and regulatory entities to 
develop sound public policy to reduce  
our impact on the environment. They are:
 »Help develop responsible regulations.
 »Promote technology development.
 »Advocate for incentives to  
accelerate progress. 
 »Support a balanced global approach.
The principles were put into action 
during the development of the first-ever greenhouse gas (GHG) and fuel efficiency 
standards for heavy-duty and medium-duty 
vehicles in the United States. Cummins was very active in the development of the 
rule for more than four years – forming a 
stakeholder group with other companies in the industry, writing a regulatory framework white paper, supporting the rule publicly 
when it was proposed in October 2010  
and providing extensive feedback during  the comment period. 
Rich Freeland, Cummins’ Vice President 
and President – Engine Business, joined other industry representatives in meeting 
with U.S. President Barack Obama as 
he announced the final rule on Aug. 9, 2011. The rule is projected to reduce 
GHG emissions for trucks and buses built 
between 2014 and 2018 by approximately 270 million metric tons. The resulting 
reduced fuel usage will lead to $42 billion 
in net savings for vehicle owners when considering technology costs. 
Consistent with Cummins’ principle to 
develop clean, efficient products, the Company also announced on the same  
day that its on-highway engines would meet 
the new standards one year early, in 2013.Cummins demonstrates good environmental stewardship  
through our products, practices and our partnerships.  
Here’s a look at our activity in all three areas:ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARdSHIP // P ARTNERSHIPS
Partnerships and policy
Cummins’ partnerships have helped the Company 
meet its product and emissions goals and use energy 
more efficiently. Our policy advocacy has helped bring 
environmental solutions to the marketplace. 
Engine Business President 
Rich Freeland talks with 
reporters on the White 
House lawn in 2011 after 
the finalization of the GHG / 
fuel efficiency standards for 
commercial vehicles.ENVIRONMENT
46    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    47
After achieving significant energy  
efficiency and GHG reductions over the  
last six years, Cummins raised the bar  
on its efforts by becoming a partner in the energy department’s Better Buildings, 
Better Plants Challenge. 
As a Challenge Partner, Cummins has 
committed to reduce energy use by at least 
25 percent adjusted for sales from 2005-
2015, to complete a larger-scale energy efficiency project, and report details on 
energy use and progress. The Challenge 
provides a forum to both share our knowledge and learn from fellow partners 
that can encourage other companies to 
pursue energy efficiency actions. 
The Company’s plant in Rocky Mount, 
N.C. is part of the DOE’s Superior Energy 
Performance demonstration project. Demonstration support teams are working 
with the facilities to implement energy 
management systems that conform to the ISO 50001 international standard and to 
measure and verify the resulting energy 
performance improvement. Facilities receive energy management training and resources 
to prepare for Superior Energy Performance 
(SEP) certification. 
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
Our government relations office continues 
to advocate for products and technologies globally that benefit the environment.  
These include fuel efficient generators for 
military applications, combined heat and power systems and distributed generation 
and natural gas engines.
Cummins is active in efforts to  
remove barriers to remanufacturing  
and remanufactured goods globally.  The Company is leading a coalition whose 
aim is to secure continued funding for the 
Diesel Emissions Reduction Act (DERA)  
to either rebuild or replace diesel-powered vehicle engines to meet more stringent  
emission standards or install emission 
reduction systems.
SCIENCE ANd TECHNOLOGY 
AdVISORY COUNCIL
Cummins seeks advice from its Science and 
Technology Advisory Council in developing products to meet various standards,  
to reduce the Company’s environmental 
footprint and to meet customer demands.
The Council, formed in 1993, has given the 
Company access to some of the country’s 
leading scientific thinkers and policymakers from the worlds of academia, industry and 
government. The Council was restructured 
in 2010 to facilitate access to a broader group of international specialists and align  
their expertise with the specific topics  
being addressed by the Council at a particular time.
The permanent members are:
 »Chairman Dr. Gerald Wilson,  
former Dean of Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 »Dr. Harold Brown, former U.S. Secretary of Defense and former President of  the California Institute of Technology. 
Other senior international scientists  
and engineers are invited to participate  
as advisors depending on the topic.
The Safety, Environment and Technology 
Committee of the Cummins Board of 
Directors also advises senior leaders  Collaborating with customers  
for better performance
Since 2004, Cummins has collaborated with its end user truck fleet  
customers on 74 customer-focused Six Sigma projects, which saved  55 million gallons of fuel and avoided 558,000 tons of CO
2 emissions.  
That’s equivalent to taking 99,000 cars off the road. Here are a few  other ways the Company engages our customers to improve performance.
POWERSPEC
Helps customers specify the 
correct vehicle and electronic 
parameters using inputs such as 
vehicle weight and engine type to determine proper axle and transmission configuration.GREATER FUEL ECONOMY : 
ENGINE FINE-TUNING
Greater fuel economy  
through vehicle specifications, 
calibration and hardware. Cummins can also help with powertrain integration and 
accessory management.FLEET MANAGEMENT
Fleet managers can analyze engine 
data for variations between drivers or 
trucks, looking for trends that can aid 
driver coaching.FUEL ECONOMY REFERENCE  LIBRARY TOOLS
Customers can access information describing 
the best fuel economy configuration for electronic 
parameters, transmission, tires and other factors.
GREATER FUEL ECONOMY :  
dRIVER ASSISTANCE
Road Speed Governors  
and Cruise Control limit 
maximum speed, saving fuel. Smart Torque minimizes the down shifts required to  
maintain speed.ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    49
The team also will look at creating a tool 
for designers to be aware of how design 
decisions affect required energy.
The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) of 
the Confederation of Indian Industry will take 
another step forward in advancing green 
practices in India as it broadens its focus from green buildings to green companies. 
Pradeep Barghava, Director, Cummins  
India Limited, and a national leader in  green building practices, chaired the first 
Green Company Summit in June 2012. 
The Summit is the culmination of nearly  
two years of work in which more than  
100 professionals have been involved to 
create a “code” by which the totality of a Company’s efforts can be measured and 
quantified to achieve a composite rating. 
The IGBC is looking beyond building, 
energy, water, waste management, and 
including factors such as green supply 
chain, product stewardship and life-cycle assessments of products in its rating.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 
Cummins takes a number of steps to  
report its environmental information to the 
public and work with other companies to 
share best practices. 
For the past seven years, the Company 
has participated in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP), an institutional investor consortium that seeks to encourage  
greater public environmental reporting 
among companies. 
CDP asks companies to provide details  
on their carbon emissions, their responses 
to the impact of climate change on their  markets and regulatory environment, their 
uses of energy and planning for the future.In addition, Cummins is a member of the 
Business Roundtable’s S.E.E. Change (Society, Environment and Economy) 
initiative, which encourages member 
companies to lead by example and  adopt business strategies and projects  
that measurably improve society,  
the environment and the economy. Cummins has been a regular contributor 
to the Roundtable’s annual sustainability 
report, including the 2012 report “Create, 
Grow, Sustain.” The report is available 
at businessroundtable.org/studies-and-reports/create-grow-sustain.
Cummins also is a member of the Business 
Environmental Leadership Council of the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions 
and sits on the President’s Council of 
Resources for the Future.and the technical leadership of  Cummins regarding:
 »Environmental and technological 
strategies, compliance programs  and major projects as they relate  to the Company and its products.
 »Public policy developments, strategies 
and positions taken by the Company 
with respect to safety, environmental and technological matters that significantly impact the Company or its products.
 »Progress of strategic environmental programs and policies.
OTHER PARTNERSHIPS IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY, GREEN PRACTICES
Cummins has continued to partner with 
Duke Energy on many energy efficiency initiatives. The Company was named a 
“Power Partner” in 2009 and 2010 after it 
expanded an Energy Contract for Service pilot to upgrade plants with high efficiency 
lighting and smart sensors that Duke  
Energy owns and maintains.
The facilities pay for the energy service  
as provided – in this case lumens of light –  
and the cost of that service is less than what it would cost if Cummins purchased and operated the more efficient lighting. 
For three years, Cummins has supported 
the Environmental Defense Fund’s Climate Corps Fellows program. The Climate Corps 
is a summer fellowship program that places 
specially-trained MBA and MPA students in companies, cities and universities to build 
the business case for energy efficiency. 
Since the program began in 2008, fellows 
have uncovered efficiencies in lighting, 
computer equipment and heating and 
cooling systems. Cummins’ Environmental Defense Fund fellows have worked on 
energy efficiency training and global  
building standards and scorecards. 
In conjunction with the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Cummins is studying 
how to use less energy in manufacturing and engine design. The collaboration with 
the Environmentally Benign Manufacturing 
Group aims to prepare a design for low energy manufacturing methodology. 
This methodology will identify the embodied 
energy required both in the materials needed  
for production of an engine as well as the 
manufacturing process of the engine itself. PROdUCT WEBSITES
Some Cummins business units are also 
releasing more environmental information 
about their products and practices.  Power Generation’s newly updated 
environmental sustainability website 
brings together news and information from across the business about its varied 
products, services, projects, and more.
The URL is http://www.
cumminspowerdocs.com/climate/ 
climate-landing.html
Cummins also has a website for  
upcoming Euro 6 diesel engine  
emissions standards in Europe.  
Euro 6 is very similar to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
standards for 2010 in lowering  
particulate matter and nitrogen  oxides to near-zero levels. 
The URL is www.cumminseuro6.com
kEY MOMENTS IN U.S. GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATION
States and environmental 
groups file lawsuit asking 
EPA to regulate greenhouse 
gases (GHGs)U.S. Supreme Court  says EPA has authority  
to regulate GHGs under  
the Clean Air Act.EPA says GHGs are a public health danger 
and will be regulated for 
mobile sources.Regulation finalized to limit GHGs from light-duty 
vehicles in addition to fuel 
economy. Rule proposed to establish standards for commercial vehicle GHGs 
and fuel consumption.EPA and Department of 
Transportation present a 
finalized rule requiring a 10 to 
20 percent improvement in fuel efficiency with a resulting decrease in carbon dioxide 
emissions starting in 2014.
2004 2007 2009 2010 2011ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
50    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    51
Hemant Adi says he was not surprised  
his daughter became an engineer. Her older 
sister, Ketaki, got her undergraduate degree 
in electronics and telecommunications engineering in India and has a master’s in 
computer science from the University of 
Texas – Dallas. 
“I was sure she would not just follow my 
footsteps into engineering,” he said of 
Gayatri, “but would surpass me.”
It didn’t take long during an interview  
earlier this year to see that Gayatri Adi 
was at home around the six-cylinder 
diesel engine she worked on in Associate Professor Greg Shaver’s laboratory at 
Purdue. For much of the past five years,  
she spent between eight and 10 hours a day in the lab, five or more days a week. 
Gayatri’s research for her doctorate focused 
on the use of electronic controls to enable an engine to detect the percentage of 
biofuel being used and how the engine 
could most efficiently work with it. Such controls could be critical with the use of 
fuels made from renewable sources like 
corn, soybeans, sugar cane, algae and even waste cooking oil. 
While Gayatri doesn’t see herself as a 
trailblazer, her success is a significant 
milestone for Cummins College of 
Engineering for Women. Established in 1991 with a grant from the Cummins India 
Foundation, the college has given more than 4,000 women in India the opportunity 
to pursue careers in the male-dominated 
world of engineering.
Since 2003, Cummins, CCEW and Purdue 
have been working together to provide 
CCEW graduates the opportunity to apply 
to continue their studies in West Lafayette. Twenty-five college graduates have gone 
on to become Cummins Fellows at Purdue, 
receiving financial support through the Cummins India Foundation for one year  
until they joined a professor’s research  
team to pursue their master’s.
Gayatri said the fellowship was critical 
because unlike many graduate students 
she didn’t have to worry about funding for 
her first year at Purdue. She had the luxury to look for a project that aligned with her 
interests, ultimately joining Shaver’s team. 
Members of the partnership say they 
continue to be pleased with the way  
the initiative is working.
“It is an honor to see the program that 
(Cummins Vice President and Chief 
Technical Officer) John Wall and I started 
continue to thrive including graduating  Dr. Adi this year,” said Jay P . Gore,  
founding and former director of the  
Energy Center in Purdue’s Discovery  
Park and the Reilly University Chair 
Professor of Mechanical Engineering.
“Gayatri has worked hard,” he added,  
“and always with a smile.”“I was sure she would not just  
follow my footsteps into engineering,  
but would surpass me.”
HEMANT AdI 
GAYATRI’S FATHER
“I used to repair little things and Gayatri 
would watch me,” Hemant Adi remembers. 
“She always wanted to know how  
things worked.” 
Little did father and daughter know  
those moments would lead Gayatri  
on a journey thousands of miles from  
home to the middle of the United States.
Gayatri Adi is the first graduate from  
the Cummins College of Engineering for Women (CCEW) in Pune to get her PhD  
at Purdue University in West Lafayette,  
Ind. through a partnership established  by Cummins, Purdue and CCEW.
Gayatri will start work in June for Cummins’ 
Advanced Engine Controls Team in Columbus, Ind. She will be following in  her father’s footsteps, working for the same 
company where he has been a mechanical 
engineer for more than 30 years.
“It is a little surprising that I’m going to 
be working in the same company as dad 
because when I was an undergraduate,  
I was studying instrumentation and control 
engineering so my focus wasn’t really on 
engines,” Gayatri says.
“But after coming to Purdue I found out 
that control theory can be used for very 
interesting applications related to engines and that’s how I ended up working in the 
same field as my dad.”
A family affair
Growing up, Gayatri Adi loved watching her father  
fix things around their home in Pune, India. 
The diesel engine laboratory 
at Purdue University became 
a second home for Gayatri 
Adi. She is the first graduate 
of the Cummins College of 
Engineering for Women in 
Pune, India to get her PhD at 
Purdue in West Lafayette, Ind. ENVIRONMENT
52    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    53
Dhennin says Hirst has had a remarkable 
impact in just the three years she’s been 
with Cummins.
“In a relatively short time she’s played a 
major role in implementing some really 
important projects for us,” he said.
Keane says he came to energy conservation 
from the perspective of a plant leader 
looking to control costs. He said the focus 
was on getting “turbos out the door” when he arrived at Huddersfield in 2007. Energy 
conservation took something of a backseat. 
He attributes the facility’s success to 
best practice sharing through the Energy 
Champions program that showed energy 
efficiency doesn’t have to come at the expense of production. And he believes the 
gains realized so far are just the beginning.“One of the striking things I get to  see is what is happening at other sites,” 
Keane said. “I think we do some very  good work and Jennifer is very dedicated 
but there is excellent work being done all 
over Cummins.”
Hirst says she believes communication has 
been crucial to getting employees involved 
at Huddersfield. “We’re delivering things in  a way that people understand— no jargon.” 
The facility has electronic signs that track 
power consumption so everyone can see how the Huddersfield campus is doing 
on their energy conservation goals. In 
addition, the facility sponsors educational programming designed to raise awareness. 
Huddersfield is demonstrating how 
environmentally sensitive a plant can be when you have clear goals, leaders with  
the right skills and dedicated employees.Jennifer Hirst, an Energy Engineer at  
CTT Huddersfield, and Richard Keane, CTT’s Facilities Manager, are the leaders 
of Huddersfield’s energy conservation 
efforts. The facility has consistently ranked at the top of Cummins’ Energy Champions 
program since the initiative began in 2008. 
Hirst and Keane are quick to give  
credit to the employees at Huddersfield. 
They say more than 70 percent of the 
energy conservation projects at the  facility in recent years were suggested  
by workers on the shop floor. 
“It’s been very gratifying to see ideas  
come from the bottom up and not  
from the top down,” Keane said. 
Hirst, the self-described “eco-child,” 
agreed. “They’re the ones with the  
vision and approach,” she said. 
But it’s also clear that Huddersfield  
benefits from Keane’s and Hirst’s  
dedication and passion for finding  
ways to use energy more wisely.The facility is currently developing a geo-thermal system that draws energy from  the earth to heat and cool a building on  
the campus that will provide training space. 
Last year, CTT Huddersfield installed a  
large array of solar cells on the roof of  
the site’s Technical Center to supplement 
power for that facility (Hirst would love to see the tech center go totally “green” 
someday, producing enough energy to  
be taken off the grid).
And Huddersfield has consistently found 
new ways to build on the $120,000 it  
saved during Cummins’ first Unplugged Energy Challenge, an effort launched in 
2008 to reduce power consumption  
during holiday shutdowns.
“Richard was leading energy efficiency 
programs with CTT before the Energy 
Champions program was created,”  said Mark Dhennin, Cummins Director of 
Energy Efficiency. “He’s been a tremendous 
advocate for energy efficiency.”Energy savings from the  
earth’s core to the shop floor
Combine the talents of a self-described “eco-child” with 
a cost conscious facilities leader and an engaged and 
committed group of employees and you get Cummins  
Turbo Technologies (CTT) in Huddersfield, U.K., one of  
the Company’s leading facilities for energy conservation  
and other green practices. 
Energy Engineer Jennifer 
Hirst stands next to the solar 
cells installed in 2011 at the 
Technical Center on campus.
Richard KeaneCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
54    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    55A GLOBAL PROBLEM
A recent report by the World Economic 
Forum estimates that 10 million 
manufacturing jobs worldwide cannot  be filled today due to skills gaps. 
The lack of effective technical and 
vocational training programs is a critical concern at Cummins as it is for many 
manufacturers. A recent Company  
study estimates that Cummins will need  37 percent more technical workers in 
the next three years, including service 
technicians, diesel mechanics, shop  floor workers and more. 
Cummins’ plant leaders saw early on  
the potential for pairing their resource  needs with the needs of their communities. 
Ken Anderson, Plant Manager at the  
Rocky Mount Engine Plant in Rocky Mount, N.C., has been working with area 
businesses through the local Chamber of 
Commerce to bring together high schools and community colleges in the region to 
improve vocational programs.In addition to Anderson’s coalition  
building, three community colleges in  
2011 received diesel engines made at  
the plant so their students would have  the latest equipment to work on.
“Education is essential to our strategy of 
sustainable improvement where we do business and in the communities where 
we live and work,” said Anderson, who 
will become Cummins Emission Solutions Global Supply Chain Leader in August 
2012. “And it’s part of educating and 
empowering the workforce of the future and creating the capacity for economic 
development in the community. In that  
way, Cummins’ involvement is part of  our being responsible citizens.”
Thousands of miles away in Xiangyang, 
China, leaders of the Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company (DCEC) saw the same 
potential. The joint venture worked with 
local government and education officials  to start a vocational education program to 
help teenagers in the Danjiangkou region. Today, Pritchard is the Director General at 
the Cummins Filtration Plant in San Luis 
Potosí, Mexico, leading an operation that 
produces 100,000 filters a day. His career has taken him to Germany, Spain, Australia, 
the United States, China and now Mexico, 
where he’s working with a local technical college to develop a vocational education 
program like the one where he started. 
“A solid technical education can be the 
foundation for building a better life,” said 
Pritchard, who joined Cummins in 1993. “Not only is it important for companies like 
Cummins who need workers with these 
skills, it can change lives.”
From Xiangyang, China and Phaltan,  
India to Rocky Mount, North Carolina, and 
Jamestown, N.Y., Cummins leaders have 
been engaged in improving education, from early childhood instruction through 
university post-graduate programs. 
Many are focusing on the critical need for 
strong technical and vocational education 
programs to help prepare the workforce for the 21st century. Vocational education  
can provide portable skills that lead  
to high-paying jobs and ultimately  
stronger communities, consistent with  Cummins’ value “to serve and improve  
the communities in which we live.” 
To support these leaders, their communities 
and others like them, the Company and  
The Cummins Foundation are partnering 
to start a vocational education initiative 
in 2012, developing new programs and 
working with existing ones around the  world to find approaches that will  
achieve positive results.
“The evidence shows that the lack of 
employable skills can be a barrier to success for many individuals and for  
the communities in which they live,” said 
Jean Blackwell, Executive Vice President – Corporate Responsibility and CEO of  
The Cummins Foundation. “Solid technical 
training gives individuals a pathway to well-paying jobs and it creates a stable 
employment base for our communities.” Vocational education: changing lives, 
strengthening communities
Mike Pritchard knows first-hand the value of vocational education. 
Growing up in a working-class neighborhood in London’s East End, he entered a technical education and apprenticeship program  at 16, figuring he’d follow in the footsteps of his father and uncle  who worked at an automobile factory in Essex.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY // COVER STORY
Vocational education students 
and instructor Jeff Cook (far 
left) gather around a Cummins 
engine produced at the Rocky 
Mount Engine Plant and 
donated to Nash Community 
College in Rocky Mount, N.C. 
The engine allows students to learn on the latest equipment. 
Cummins leaders have  
worked to build a coalition 
in Rocky Mount to improve 
vocational education.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
56    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    57Many rural teens were sent to the city  
to find work after a water diversion project 
displaced a number of families in the region.
“This project is a breakthrough  
in two aspects,” said Wang Ning,  
Deputy General Manager of DCEC,  
who is in charge of the initiative. 
“Firstly, it is a vocational education  
program, which aims at solving the  
most urgent needs of the migrant  families,” he said. “Secondly, DCEC  
has leveraged its multiple resources  
to assist the families, including financial resources, training and job opportunities,  
to ensure a satisfactory outcome.” 
The program also helps the joint  
venture, which is providing teachers  
and other support.
“Through the vocational school, we 
believe we can cultivate highly skilled 
personnel who will meet the development 
requirements of DCEC,” Wang Ning said.LEARNING LABORATORIES
With its history of involvement in  
wide-ranging educational endeavors,  
its global reach, its expertise in skilled manufacturing and product services, 
Cummins is uniquely positioned to  
help address the technical skills gap. 
In 2011, the Company launched a global 
initiative, sponsored by Chairman and 
CEO Tom Linebarger, to expand vocational education and address the shortage of 
skilled workers. To better understand the 
problem and to identify an appropriate response, the project team started by 
conducting numerous interviews in and 
outside the Company using Six Sigma process improvement tools. The team then 
formulated a strategy based on its findings. 
Now, Cummins and The Cummins 
Foundation have launched TEC: Technical 
Education for Communities, an initiative 
to develop and grow an effective global technical education program. The Company is currently working to identify at least six locations to serve  
as learning laboratories. Among the  
early implementation sites will be the Dongfeng-owned trade school in China  
as well as training sites in Phaltan, India  
and Casablanca, Morocco. Cummins  will provide expertise and resources  
to these programs.
Going forward, project leaders will test 
a variety of approaches, identify best 
practices, and benchmark progress  
prior to recommending a global strategy  for community technical education.  
The goal is to develop students with  
the skill sets to work at Cummins or wherever their interests might take them.
There are many challenges to surmount. 
In many countries, vocational education has a stigma and the curriculum often isn’t 
connected to the needs of the labor market. 
The TEC program will be sensitive to the 
market conditions, business needs and 
culture of each site. The training program  
in Phaltan, India, for example, is unique  in that it is located in a rural part of 
the country experiencing an influx of 
manufacturing operations. 
The Industrial Training Institute (ITI) is a 
20-minute drive from Cummins’ Megasite  
in India, a 300-acre campus that will be home to 10 Cummins’ facilities by 2014. 
Leaders from Cummins India are taking 
an active role, serving on the vocational school’s Management Committee along 
with other regional industry partners. THE ENd RESULT
Talk to the students at the Industrial  
Training Institute and it quickly becomes 
clear what a transformative role vocational education programs can play in the lives  
of communities.
Reshma Karand, 16, says she enrolled 
at the Institute because she realizes that 
her options are limited unless she finds 
employment. Many teenage girls who live  in rural villages like Nandal, India, find 
marriage is the more traditional alternative – 
Reshma has other plans. 
“I am hoping that some industry may 
provide an apprenticeship to me which 
will help me get practical knowledge,” she said. “With good teachers providing holistic 
knowledge – both theory and practical – I 
will be better positioned to get a good job.” 
Reshma and her friends, Sandya Maji 
Guidagad and Swati Abaji Guldagad, are 
among 45 girls who enrolled in ITI after  they finished their 10th year of schooling. 
First, they will complete a year at the 
institute working toward a general trade certificate. A six-month apprenticeship 
program follows at one of the area’s 
manufacturing firms. 
The inspiration to enroll came from  
female role models they met who  
worked at Cummins.
“I have seen girls employed in Cummins 
and they visited our school to inspire  
us to join the vocational stream,”  said Sandya Maji Guidagad. 
“Technical jobs are not only for boys,”  
she said. “We girls can also perform  equally well.”
Zhao Yan is the Technical Project 
Leader at Cummins Turbo Technologies in Wuxi, China.  
He also helps teach a vocational 
education program Cummins is supporting at an institute of technology in the city.
He says vocational education 
is good for students, good for Cummins and good for communities, too.
“Our hope is students, the 
community and Cummins  
will benefit from the program,”  he said during an interview in early 2012 after meeting with about a 
dozen students to discuss the 
workings of a turbocharger.
“We hope through this program, 
we will give students a better understanding of real world 
technology and the needed  
skills (in manufacturing),”  he added. “After that, we hope the students will pursue careers 
(in manufacturing) and we hope 
some of them will join Cummins.”ABOUT THE COVER
Two students train at the 
Industrial Training Institute 
in Phaltan, India, about 
a 20-minute drive from 
Cummins’ Megasite, a 
300-acre campus that will 
be home to 10 Cummins 
facilities by 2014. Cummins India leaders are actively 
engaged in the school to 
help strengthen communities near the Megasite and 
develop the talent Cummins 
and other companies in  
the area need.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
58    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    59
The winning projects ranged from an effort 
to save an Indiana school district millions 
on its utility bills to a project in Chongqing, 
China that used a Cummins generator running on landfill gas to generate electricity.
UNITEd WAY
Cummins employees across the Company 
pledged a record $2.5 million to the United 
Way in 2011, with workers in Rocky 
Mount, N.C. leading the way in employee participation for a second consecutive year.
Ninety percent of the employees at the 
Rocky Mount Engine Plant participated in the United Way pledge drive in 2011, 
followed by 80 percent of the employees  
at Cummins’ facilities in Nashville, Tenn.  and 79 percent of the employees in  
El Paso, Texas.
“We simply have employees who care about 
people and those who are less fortunate,” 
said Gloria Hicks, Community Relations 
Manager for Cummins at Rocky Mount. “The United Way helps so many people – 
the homeless, the abused, the elderly and 
youth. And the United Way addresses social justice issues, too.”
Overall, Cummins employees in North 
America pledged an additional $400,000  in 2011 – a nearly 20 percent increase  over the $2.1 million pledged in 2010. 
United Way participation at Cummins  
is primarily in North America.
During the 2011 campaign, 56 percent  
of the eligible Cummins population  
pledged to give to United Way.  Employees have the option to steer  
their giving to a variety of organizations 
doing critical work in communities.
All participants have the added satisfaction 
of knowing their investments will double, 
due to a dollar-for-dollar matching gift by The Cummins Foundation to their local 
United Ways. That match resulted in a  
$5 million impact to our communities  in 2011.
The matching gift program was expanded 
outside the United States in 2011. Local matching gift programs were started in 
India, China and the Asia-Pacific region 
through The Cummins Foundation and  the Cummins India Foundation. 
Through these programs, Cummins 
employees are able to pledge their  support to organizations that support  
their local communities. Nearly 16,500 employees worked  
130,774 hours on community projects in 2011 as part of Cummins’ Every Employee 
Every Community (EEEC) program. 
Under the EEEC program, the Company 
pays for employees to work on community 
projects for at least four hours per year. 
Employees can work more on company time with the permission of their supervisor.
Most of that work is done through a 
network of more than 200 employee-led Community Involvement Teams across the 
globe. They tackled hundreds of projects 
over the course of the year, ranging from helping Habitat for Humanity build houses 
in Memphis, Tenn., to cleaning and painting 
a school in Darlington, U.K., to addressing dangerous traffic situations in Dewas, India.
The Company urges Community 
Involvement Teams to focus their  efforts on one of three subject areas  
 that Cummins believes it can  
particularly make a difference:
 »Education
 »The environment
 »Social justice / equal opportunity
ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGE
The Company has made a special effort  
to encourage projects in its newest focus 
area, the environment. In 2011, Cummins 
held its third Environmental Challenge  to encourage Community Involvement 
Teams to leverage the Company’s 
environmental expertise to address community concerns (page 61).
The teams competed to be one of 15 to 
win $10,000 grants from The Cummins Foundation that they could then give to  
the charitable partner of their choice.  
The competition drew a record  140 entries from 21 countries, up from  
86 entries from 13 countries in 2010. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Living our corporate responsibility 
value takes many forms in 2011–2012
Employees invested thousands of hours in community 
involvement projects in 2011, living the Company’s 
corporate responsibility value to “serve and improve  
the communities in which we live.”
HIGHLIGHTS
 »Company to establish 
learning laboratories around the world on vocational education.
 »Record participation in 2011 Environmental Challenge.
 »United Way program enjoys record year.
Cummins employees at the 
Corporate Office Building in 
Columbus, Ind. throw paper 
airplanes at a target as part  
of a United Way fundraiser.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
60    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    61 
TACkLING PUNE’S  
GARBAGE PROBLEM
Pune, India
Part of Cummins’ Mission is to  
“demand that everything we do leads to  
a cleaner, healthier, safer environment.”  An Environmental Challenge Project in  
Pune, India is making a big difference  
in all three ways.
The city of 4 million people produces a 
lot of garbage – as much as 1,000 tons 
of trash or more per day. Much of that waste is taken to a makeshift landfill where 
vultures, pigs and stray dogs are known to 
scavenge. Flies, cockroaches and rodents add to the misery. And the garbage can 
create an unbearable stench. The problem is compounded by the  
fact that two villages border the 55-acre landfill. Residents regularly protest by blocking the trucks bringing garbage  
into their communities.BEST ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTAWARd  
WINNERSPECIAL PARTNERSHIPS /
PHILANTHROPY
Cummins continued in 2011-2012 
to financially support several special partnerships addressing a range  
of concerns. 
The Minneapolis-based Courage Center,  
for example, helps those with brain and 
spinal cord injuries and developmental 
disabilities. Cummins employees in Fridley, Minn. have long volunteered their time to 
adapt toys and household devices for  
the center’s patients.
The Cummins College of Engineering in 
Pune and Nagpur, India, educates women 
who have been under-represented in the field of engineering. 
From its campus in Costa Rica, EARTH 
University teaches sustainable agriculture and entrepreneurship to students who 
might never have afforded college.Cummins is able to financially support these 
and other initiatives through its businesses 
as well as The Cummins Foundation (page 
73) and its related foundations, such as the Cummins India Foundation.
In 2011, Cummins invested more than  
$37 million in its corporate responsibility efforts, including $26 million to The 
Foundation, one of the oldest corporate 
foundations in the United States.
But donating money has always been 
a relatively small part of the Company’s 
Corporate Responsibility program.
“I’ve always believed that Corporate 
Responsibility is only effective if as a 
company we add something to it; if we add our skills, if we add our passion, if it furthers 
our strategic goals,” said Jean Blackwell, 
Cummins Executive Vice President – Corporate Responsibility. “At Cummins, 
corporate responsibility is about much  
more than just money.”
LEFT  The Cummins College 
of Engineering for Women, one 
of the Company’s significant 
partnerships, graduated its first group of 65 female students 
with Mechanical Engineering 
degrees in 2011.
RIGHT  Tracy Embree, Vice 
President and President – 
Cummins Turbo Technologies (CTT), visits the Cummins 
Library at the Wuxi Hudai 
Center Primary School in 
2011. Embree and the CTT’s 
Community Involvement Team 
donated 500 books to the 
school. Embree was General Manager – Asia for CTT then.Challenge keeps growing  
in scope, impact
Cummins’ Third Environmental Challenge in  
2011 was bigger and better than ever, with more  
employees accomplishing a bigger reduction in  
greenhouse gases (GHGs) than ever before.
The competition among the Company’s employee-led Community Involvement Teams (CITs) 
for the best environmental projects drew 140 entries from 21 countries compared with  
86 entries from 13 countries in 2010. 
And the 2011 Challenge eliminated an estimated 3,600 tons of GHGs, up from 809 tons  
in 2010. Fifteen projects received $10,000 grants payable to the charitable groups chosen  
by the winning CITs. Here’s a look at five projects that received special recognition:
Disadvantaged residents  
got jobs sorting the wet  
waste from the dry waste  
as part of the project,  
helping them to better  
support their families.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
62    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012“From the straw-bale concept itself – 
which is a more sustainable alternative 
to traditional gardening – to the impact 
on employees and the recipients of the produce, it truly is a partnership that 
benefits the local community on so  
many levels,” she added. “We’re  proud to watch it grow.”
Straw bales can be placed virtually 
anywhere as they do not require soil like  a traditional in-ground garden. Employees 
volunteer their time to plant, harvest and 
donate the produce to local nonprofit organizations. Other benefits include:
 »Soil and water conservation
 »No pesticides and low  
fertilizer use, resulting in little  or no water contamination
 »Composting of garden waste 
 »A greatly reduced carbon footprint
The first year was a tremendous success 
and attracted a lot of attention throughout 
the Company. The strong interest in 
community gardening led to another  Six Sigma project, this time led by Global 
Brand & Internal Communications Analyst 
Elena Grimm. She explored creating a standardized process and “garden toolkit.” The resulting project guide is being distributed and used not only by other 
Cummins locations but outside the 
Company, too. Cummins’ Seymour,  Ind. Engine Plant, for example, started  
a garden at a shelter and food pantry  
in that city and several Minneapolis-area corporations have started gardens as well.
 
 
A SMALL BUT MIGHTY 
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT TEAM 
Kenya and South Africa 
Cummins Filtration has a small  
workforce of a few dozen people in  Kenya and South Africa, but that didn’t  
stop the business from reaching out  
to help others in a big way.
Filtration’s Community Involvement  
Team (CIT) tackled an ambitious garden 
project that touched five institutions in  three communities and two countries.  
In some cases, CIT members  
worked with business partners  on the project to extend their reach.Cummins India partnered with Janwani, 
an initiative to improve the quality of life 
in Pune, to implement a trial program to significantly reduce the amount of waste 
that ends up in the landfill.
The “Zero Garbage” project is taking place 
in one ward of the city but officials hope it 
might be a model for the rest of the city – 
and the country, too.
Cummins purchased sorting bins for the 
11,000 households and businesses in 
the ward. Then, more than 600 Cummins employees canvassed the area, urging 
residents through everything from door-to-
door meetings to puppet shows to separate their wet and dry waste into two containers.
The wet waste is collected and placed in 
air-tight containers, creating methane gas that is used to run power generators that 
provide light for the community. Pulling out 
the biodegradable waste has reduced the amount of trash trucked to the landfill by 
nearly 8,000 pounds a day.
The program is also building a stronger 
community by producing jobs for 
disadvantaged residents who formerly 
picked through trash for items they could sell. The program provides them with gloves 
and equipment to pick up the separated 
trash from households and businesses, which pay them for the service.  In addition, they are able to get income  from selling scrap and other recyclables.
“The deliverables on this project, all of the 
outcomes, have significantly exceeded our 
expectations,” said Raj Menon, who was 
Chief Operating Officer of Cummins India 
during much of the project. In May 2012, he was named Cummins’ Executive Managing 
Director – North America and Central America (NACA) Distribution Business.
There’s still a long way before Pune’s 
garbage problem is solved. But it’s clear  
the Zero Garbage initiative is providing  hope in the city for a cleaner, healthier  
and safer future.
FRIdLEY GARdEN kEEPS ON GIVING 
Fridley, Minn.
Where one seed is planted, the harvest  
can be plentiful.
One year after a Community Giving Garden 
was installed next to the Cummins Power 
Generation Plant in Fridley, Minn., the 
initiative using straw bale gardening has spread to other Cummins sites and several 
community partner locations as well. 
“The impacts of the Giving Garden are 
many, and they keep growing,” said  
Project Management Analyst Melissa King. 
Her 2010 Community Impact Six Sigma Project identified a need in the community 
for fresh produce – especially among low 
income residents. That led to the Fridley Giving Garden.Children hold up some of the 
promotional material urging 
residents to separate dry 
waste from wet waste.
LEFT  Cummins Power 
Generation employees work 
on the straw bale gardening 
at a housing project for 
disadvantaged residents.
RIGHT  Straw bale gardens 
conserve soil, water and 
fertilizer use and can  reduce or eliminate the  
need for pesticides.BEST NEW ENTRYAWARd  
WINNER
BEST CONTINUATION 
OF A PROJECTAWARd  
WINNER
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
64    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    65
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYENERGY dETECTIVES 
Columbus, Ind.
Two years into its partnership with 
Cummins’ employees, the Bartholomew 
Consolidated School Corporation (BCSC) 
in Columbus, Ind. accomplished what some thought impossible: produce major 
environmental benefits while saving money. 
The school corporation worked with 
members of the Cummins Distribution 
Business Unit and students to significantly reduce energy waste. The project is now 
expected to save BCSC more than  
$7 million over the next 10 years.
“BCSC is an extremely capable community 
partner that recognizes the importance of 
energy management,” said Wes Wheeldon, a Master Black Belt in Six Sigma, the  
data-driven problem solving tool. He led  
the Cummins project team. “They were ready to make a difference and we were 
available to assist with data analysis and 
validating key inputs for a capable energy management program.”
Students have played a important role  
in the initiative.
“The most effective way for us to improve 
and sustain energy and environmental 
activities was to get students involved,” said Adam Ulrich, Principal of the Clifty 
Creek Elementary School where energy 
consumption was reduced 23 percent in  
the past year. “Our student based Green 
Team is now performing energy audits  and promoting energy efficiency while  
also leading other key environmental  
efforts in recycling and planting.  They have truly made a difference.”Providing lighting, heating and water for the daily activities of more than 10,000 students in Bartholomew County is no small task. 
Classrooms, swimming pools, science 
labs and football fields are just some of the places where schools consume large 
amounts of energy. 
The team looked at energy use in multiple 
buildings and interviewed local facility  
users for a more in-depth understanding. 
They identified areas with excessive power usage and proposed ideas for better 
managing those facilities. 
Based off the partnership’s analysis,  
an energy efficiency proposal was made  
to the BCSC Board of Directors that 
included hiring a full-time energy manager to oversee the effort and the purchase of 
new, state-of-the-art energy software to 
more effectively implement improvements. 
The school system’s Board of Directors 
approved the plan. In the end, the  
major selling point was the benefit to  both students and the environment.  
In addition to the financial savings, more 
than 2,000 tons of greenhouse gas will  be reduced over the next 10 years.Led by Human Resources Manager 
Ashie Singh, the CIT worked with 
community partners in Johannesburg and Pietermaritzburg, South Africa and Nairobi, 
Kenya to establish vegetable gardens at five 
children’s day care and senior living facilities.
Cummins employees worked alongside 
the beneficiaries of the gardens to plant 
the vegetables, erect fences and set up storm water collection systems to ensure 
the gardens could be watered during dry 
periods. Those systems are critical because 
water is frequently a scarce and expensive 
resource in Africa.Singh says getting employees involved at all levels of the company early on was critical. It didn’t take long for everyone to feel they 
had some ownership of the project. 
The produce from each garden is  
helping to feed children and the elderly.  
As an additional benefit, any surplus 
produce is sold to generate income  for the partner institutions. 
Working with the children was  
particularly satisfying for Singh.
“Working with children is very exciting  
and fulfilling,” she said. “When we  
teach good habits at an early age,  we contribute to societies that are  
healthy and environmentally friendly. 
“The vegetable gardens promote healthy 
and balanced diets and in many instances 
these day care centers can barely afford a 
balanced and nutritious diet,” she added. “They would usually feed the children maize 
meal and canned beans or fish and often 
provide butternut. Seldom are green vegetables included, both because of 
availability and cost.”
The centers benefitting from the gardens 
are grateful for the help.
“Particularly the spinach grows and grows,” 
reported an official with Hotel Hope, a center for children in Johannesburg. “It is 
truly an investment that keeps on growing. 
Thank you so much for being a part of the Hotel Hope family.”
ABOVE  Cummins employees 
in Africa started gardens for 
children’s day care centers and 
senior citizen residences.
BELOW  The Cummins 
Filtration Community 
Involvement Team may be 
small but it tackled a big 
garden project.BEST OPPORTUNITY  
FOR REPLICATIONAWARd  
WINNER
Students on Clifty Creek 
Elementary School’s Green 
Team worked with Cummins 
employees to look for ways 
their school in Columbus, 
Ind. could reduce its energy 
consumption. 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
66    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    67
RESHAPING RURAL INdIA 
Pune, India
Besides being the preferred dinner for 
pandas, bamboo is the ecologically preferable source for high-end flooring,  
soft towels and now buildings stronger  
than steel.
Employees at Cummins Research and 
Technology India (CRTI) in Pune put their 
engineering skills to work so people in rural areas could have a lower cost alternative  
for building materials.
In India, 72 percent of the population 
lives in rural areas where steel is the most 
commonly used construction material.  
In order to provide a reliable and cost-effective alternative, the CRTI India 
Community Involvement Team (CIT),  
led by Rajesh Kale, turned to bamboo.
“Bamboo has a higher tensile strength-to-
weight ratio than steel, is widely available 
across India, and is resistant to moisture and rotting,” Rajesh said. “Additionally, 
bamboo is one of the fastest-growing  
plants on earth.”
The CIT partnered with the foundation  
arm of a local pharmaceutical company,  
Dr. Reddy’s Foundation. The foundation has been working to improve the livelihoods of 
people living in rural areas by creating small 
poultry sheds made of bamboo and then training local carpenters on the process.This effort stalled, however, when the foundation needed engineering expertise 
to increase the size and sophistication of 
the structures. Using analysis-led design and experimental testing, the CIT offered 
its engineering skills and launched a 
Community Impact Six Sigma project  to develop bamboo structures that could 
replace steel structures, thus providing an 
eco-friendly and cost-effective option for rural, small-scale industries. 
Bamboo wasn’t always easy for the team to 
work with. There are more than 200 species of bamboo in India alone. The diameter and 
thickness vary from one species to another, 
as well as within a single bamboo shoot. The structural properties also were not 
consistent, and no data existed around  
the creation of bamboo joints. 
Despite these challenges, the team 
developed a modular design that required 
no on-site machining and was easy to transport to rural areas. This design  
led to a 65 percent cost reduction over  
steel structures and resulted in savings  of 900 kg of CO
2 emissions per structure. 
Now, instead of only using bamboo to 
create small poultry sheds, it can be used  
to build homes, schools, greenhouses,  grain storage units, fencing and more.
The team took the design to two already 
existing Corporate Responsibility initiatives around Cummins’ Megasite in Phaltan, 
India, where the structures are now in  
place: a school cafeteria at the ITI-Phaltan school and the cow and poultry sheds at 
the village of Nandal, part of the Megasite’s 
Model Village program.BEST TECHNICAL PROJECTAWARd  
WINNER
LIGHT THE FUTURE  Chengdu, China
This three-phased project raised awareness about energy efficiency and installed energy saving lighting in two communities. 
ELIzABETHTOWN CLEANUP  Elizabethtown, Ind.
This initiative revolved around a large scale cleanup of a small community facing many challenges.  
Volunteers collected 16 dumpsters containing 47 tons of trash and 90 tires for recycling.
LANdFILL ELECTRIFICATION  Chongqing, China
Cummins engineers retrofitted a Cummins engine to run on landfill biogas to generate electricity for the community.   
The project decreased greenhouse gas emissions and provided a sustainable solution to growing energy demands.
LA BOUR P ARk PROJECT  Elkhart, Ind.
Cummins employees helped redevelop a Brownfield site so nearby residents could safely grow fruits and vegetables.  
The project included a picnic area and a walking trail.
GREEN SCHOOL PROJECT  Kent, United Kingdom
This initiative worked with students from two local schools to develop a sustainable energy strategy to reduce  
their school’s environmental footprint.
PLASTIC BAG PROJECT  Pune, India
Cummins India employees created a social enterprise that turns recycled newspapers into paper bags with  
the goal of ridding the community of plastic bags that litter roadways and landfills. Disabled residents from  four community partners participated in the paper bag production.
PVC CAP RECYCLING  Janesville, Wis.
Employees found a creative way to reuse PVC caps used at the plant. The project provided an employment  
opportunity for disabled residents, who sorted the PVC caps before they were returned to the plant.
REdUCING W ATER POLLUTION dURING FESTIVAL TIME  Pune, India
This initiative raised awareness and implemented eco-friendly alternatives to submerging statues during festival times.  
The project prevented 26 tons of waste, 3.2 tons of dry waste, and more than 18,000 idols from polluting a river.
SANS SOUCI RECYCLING  Columbus, Ind. 
Employees used their knowledge of effective work flow to improve the way a nonprofit processes donated items.   
The result was a significant reduction in waste.
TOx-A WAY dAY  Columbus, Ind.
Cummins employees worked with local nonprofits and area business partners to sponsor a day when residents  
could safely dispose of household hazardous waste. More than 63 tons of waste was diverted from landfill and sewers.OTHER 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGE WINNERSCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
68    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012
Employees from Cummins’ Distribution 
Business Unit have been maintaining  
the equipment at no cost to the village.  
To help sustain this work, Cummins  India has been working with a local  
non-governmental organization (NGO)  
to teach the village residents to perform routine maintenance and minor repairs. 
The NGO is also working with village  
leaders to establish a contingency fund  to pay for repairs and replacement of  
the equipment and parts. 
The International Energy Agency estimates 
that 1.4 billion people in the world lack 
access to electricity, 85 percent of whom 
live in rural areas like Padarwadi. This energy poverty is a significant impediment 
to achieving basic levels of education, 
health care, and economic wellbeing. 
Hoping to build on the success achieved 
in Padarwadi, Cummins and The Cummins 
Foundation have partnered to create a global initiative on rural electrification.  
This initiative is seeking to leverage its 
resources, global presence, talents and values to help develop solutions to the 
energy poverty problem and attend to the 
needs of underserved rural communities. 
Cummins is currently exploring partnering 
with innovative power producers that work 
with underserved, non-electrified rural communities in India and sub-Saharan 
Africa. The focus will be on identifying 
partners that share the goal of bringing power to these rural communities in a 
sustainable manner to develop economic 
opportunities for local communities.
Cummins may be able to assist its partners 
in technology validation, technical training, 
impact assessments, identification of income-generating opportunities, and 
access to financing. It’s been more than two years since  
the tiny village in India, accessible only  by foot, received a generator converted  
by engineers at Cummins India to run  
on oil from a local seed. 
The generator powered a small mill to  
husk the rice that village residents grew  
so they didn’t have to make hundreds  of trips to the nearest town. That town is  
more than seven miles away round-trip, 
through mountainous terrain.
The project was honored in Cummins 2010 
Environmental Challenge. The arduous 
journey with the heavy generator down a rocky mountain path was captured in a 
video that won first place in the Boston 
College Corporate Responsibility Film Festival the following year.
 Unfortunately, just when things were going 
so well, Padarwadi was hit by heavy rains and wind that same year and the shelter 
that housed the generator was destroyed.
But that’s not the end of this story. 
Cummins India employees decided to 
use the $10,000 grant they won in the 
Company’s Environmental Challenge to help the village build a permanent brick shelter.
The villagers in Padarwadi still trek into  
town today, but for a much different purpose. Thanks to the new generator,  
they are selling hulled rice, rick husks and 
oil and cake from harvesting and milling Pongomia seeds. The oil and can be  
used for medicinal purposes and the  
cake can be used as fertilizer. 
This has resulted in significantly more 
revenue that’s helping to improve the  
quality of life in the village. UPdATE:  
Power for Padarwadi, and beyond
The news is good from Padarwadi,  
but there have been some difficult times, too.
Cummins India employees 
donated the money they 
won in the Company’s 
Environmental Challenge 
to build a permanent brick 
shelter for the generator  
in Padarwadi after wind  
and rain brought down  the original building. CUSTOMER FOCUS
Any project is driven by the needs of the customer  
who is treated as a vested partner, actively involved  
and consulted throughout the process.
INCOME GENERATION
Electricity is used by the customer to generate income  
so as to increase economic wealth and living standards.
CAPACITY BUILdING
Necessary education and training will be provided to 
customers to ensure that electricity is used in a manner  that is financially and environmentally responsible,  
and to create ownership of the project.
SUSTAINABILITY
Every reasonable effort should be taken to ensure that any 
project is sustained after Cummins exits; income-generation, 
customer focus and capacity building are key success factors.
LEARNING ANd EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
A project should provide meaningful opportunities for 
Cummins to validate and refine its rural electrification framework, gain knowledge that can be applied to the 
business and / or enable Company employees to utilize  
their knowledge and skills.
SCALABILITY
Projects should have potential for scalability where  
results achieved can be leveraged to replicate similar  projects elsewhere.
The Company is technology neutral on rural electrification. 
Improving the quality of life for others through access to electricity is our objective and Cummins is open to all  
viable technologies that can help achieve that goal.RURAL ELECTRIFICATION: GUIdING PRINCIPLES
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
70    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    71
“They chose the warehouse as an area  
of focus and given that, we worked  
closely with them to re-layout the facility. 
“That meant changing the flow of donations, 
and purchasing the right equipment to help  
them become more efficient,” Gifford added. “We spent time with Sans Souci employees at the facility to understand their 
operations, resources and constraints.”
By improving the way the material was 
sorted and stored, fewer articles of clothing 
got moldy. The organization also found it 
easier to separate recyclable material to keep it out of the waste stream.
The project reduced Sans Souci’s landfill 
waste from 15 percent to 12 percent of  total donations. The organization is now 
able to process donations more quickly  
and by reducing handling time employees can perform other important tasks.
The Corporate Supply Chain  
group is continuing to work with  Sans Souci and both are looking  
forward to the collaboration. 
“Cummins doing this is just awesome,”  
said Sans Souci’s Adams.
THE WUxI WELFARE HOUSE
Cummins employees in China have  
been making life better for children  
with disabilities at the Wuxi Welfare  
House for several years.
Located in heavily populated Wuxi,  
China, the Welfare House is the only 
facility of its kind in the city for the care, rehabilitation, and education of  
abandoned and disabled children. SANS SOUCI
Cummins’ Supply Chain employees put 
their skills to work in 2011 to help a thrift store called Sans Souci in Columbus, Ind. 
that serves low-income residents in need  
of clothing and household goods at reasonable prices.The store’s name means “without worry” 
in French, but there was plenty of concern 
at Sans Souci. At certain times of the year, the donations of clothing and household 
goods would come in so fast that stacks  
of donations would extend nearly from  floor to ceiling at the shop’s warehouse. 
“We would get hit with a lot of  
donations and we couldn’t process  
them fast enough,” said Sheryl Adams, 
executive director of the not-for-profit.  “It was like a bottleneck at all times.”
Mold would become a problem and 
frequently donations had to be tossed  out before they could be processed for  
sale. That’s when staff members from 
Cummins’ Corporate Supply Chain  group entered the picture. 
They redesigned the flow of goods in and 
out of the shop. And with a nearly $20,000 
grant from The Cummins Foundation, they purchased dollies, tables, shelving and carts 
to help the store get organized and handle 
donations more efficiently.
“Our commitment to Sans Souci was to 
become a partner and bring some skills 
they might not have readily available,” 
said JaneAnn Gifford, Director of Global 
Materials for the Supply Chain organization. Putting our professional skills to work
Community involvement work at Cummins takes many 
forms, from cleanup work to tutoring and mentoring.  
But the best projects seem to involve Cummins  
employees using their professional skills to help others.
Cummins Supply Chain 
employees used a $20,000 
grant from The Cummins 
Foundation to purchase  
dollies, tables, shelving 
and carts to help the store 
get organized and handle 
donations more efficiently.
ABOVE  Cummins employees use their Six Sigma skills to help the staff at the Wuxi  Welfare House pick out the best rehabilitative equipment for the children who live there.
BELOW  Hanna Yuan, Assistant to the General Manager at Cummins Generator 
Technologies in Wuxi, says employees visit the Wuxi Welfare House frequently to  
learn about the children’s needs.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
72    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012The Company invested more than  
$37 million in its corporate responsibility 
efforts in 2011, including $26 million in 
funding for The Cummins Foundation, employee volunteer hours on Company 
time, donations and sponsorships from 
operating funds and staff involved in  our efforts around the world.
The Cummins Foundation, founded  
in 1954, is one of the oldest corporate foundations in the United States.  
It has played a critical role in hundreds  
of initiatives since its inception.
It made grants of $10.7 million in 2011, 
funding a variety of initiatives ranging from 
a summer education program in Seymour, Ind. to a computer lab at a middle school  
 
 in Xiangyang, China and a  job training program in Kenya.
The Foundation primarily focuses  
on communities where Cummins  facilities are located and in support  
of the Company’s global priorities  
of education, the environment and  social justice / equal opportunity.
In addition, there were grants totaling 
$879,000 from a Cummins-supported foundation in India. The Cummins India 
Foundation, established in 1990, supports 
higher education, energy, the environment and local infrastructure projects. 
A list of Cummins’ larger  
philanthropic contributions is  included on the following pages.The Welfare House serves more than  200 kids ages 1 to 14 on a full-time basis. 
Over a third of the children are affected by 
cerebral palsy and require special attention.
Cummins employees take the children on 
outings. They throw parties and play with 
the kids, too. But using their Six Sigma skills, the data-driven business problem 
solving tool, they have also helped the 
house make critical decisions on how to make the most of its limited funds for 
rehabilitation equipment critical to the 
children’s future. 
In 2010, Cummins Generator Technologies 
Marketing and Strategy Manager Rebecca 
Weng completed a Community Impact Six Sigma project centered on developing a 
process to generate long-term assistance 
and a project plan for the organization.
The Six Sigma project also implemented  
a measurement system to track the impact 
of donated therapeutic equipment.  As a result, the Welfare House is better able to gauge the outcomes and benefits of the 
equipment for the children and spend its 
money more wisely.
Six Sigma has also guided employee 
donations to the Welfare House. Employees 
have donated a bicycling rehabilitation machine, assistive devices for dining, 
orthopedic shoes, special clothing items 
and more. The donations were based on needs identified using Six Sigma tools. 
This year, the Welfare House is moving  
to a new facility in order to reach a greater number of children. The new space will 
accommodate 100 more beds and includes a dedicated children’s rehabilitation area, with several rooms designated for key 
therapies and training. And the Six Sigma 
research is helping with that effort, too.
The rehabilitation area will grow significantly, 
strengthening the Welfare House’s ability 
to provide top-level care for children with cerebral palsy. Before the new rehabilitation 
area, about 36 percent of the Welfare 
House’s children could go through training and rehabilitation program. With this 
addition, the training rate will increase  
to 75 percent.
“We visit the Wuxi Welfare House several 
times every year to understand the most 
urgent needs of the children,” said Hanna Yuan, Assistant to the General Manager 
at Cummins Generator Technologies in 
Wuxi. “We believe that with our help, the Welfare House can improve these children’s 
self-dependent ability and help them fit into 
society and have the chance to be adopted in the future.”Philanthropy:  
augmenting our skills and passions
Cummins wants to use its philanthropy to augment  
our employees’ skills and passions toward our goal  
of building stronger communities. 
“While some still argue that  
business has no social responsibility,  
we believe that our survival in the 
very long run is as dependent upon 
responsible citizenship in our  
communities and in the society,  
as it is on responsible technology, 
financial and production performance.” 
J. IRWIN MILLER 
CUMMINS’ LONGTIME LEADER ADDRESSED  
THE COMPANY’S COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY IN THE 1972 ANNUAL REPORT .
Cummins employees are 
engaged in building stronger 
communities around the  
world – improving the 
communities near the 
Company’s Megasite in 
Phaltan, India (left), and 
cleaning up in Korea (right).CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
74    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    75
GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COMMUNITY GRANT OR dONATIONCUMMINS 
FOUNdATIONS CUMMINS INC.
Education
Community Education Coalition  
IU Center for Art and Design Columbus, Ind.  $1,000,000 
Indianapolis zoo – International Great Ape Center Indianapolis, Ind. $500,000
Cummins College of Engineering for Women 
Campus expansionNagpur, India $449,573
The Mind Trust – Summer Advantage Program Seymour, Ind.  $210,000 
Ithemba Institute of Technology – Educational funding Johannesburg, South Africa  $125,000 
Community Education Coalition  
Early Childhood Education InitiativeColumbus, Ind.  $125,000 
Franklin College – Various projects Franklin, Ind. $100,000
National Society of Black Engineers 
SEEK Summer CampsAlexandria, Va. $75,000
Save the Children  Early childhood care and development programsBeijing, China  $60,591 
Industrial Training Institute – Educational funding Phaltan, India  $57,400
Jagriti School for the Blind – Educational funding Pune, India $53,755
Children’s Hope China (through Global Giving) – Foster home Beijing, China $50,000 
Community Education Coalition  
Early childhood scholarship programColumbus, Ind. $50,000
International School of Columbus  Educational fundingColumbus, Ind. $50,000 
Building Tomorrow – Feasibility study Indianapolis, Ind. $48,437
dandelion School (through Global Giving)  Replacement and repair on school groundsBeijing, China $42,870
University of Science & Technology  Electronic Control Lab ProgramBeijing, China $42,259 
Memphis Cultural Arts Enrichment Center Operating supportMemphis, Tenn. $42,000 
Lutou Middle School (through Global Giving) – Computer lab Xiangyang, China  $33,010
Community Education Coalition  
Graduation Coaches ProgramColumbus, Ind. $30,000 
Mineral Point Public Library – Educational technologies Mineral Point, Wisc. $29,826
Simon kenton High School Community Based Program  
Instructional materialsIndependence, Ky. $25,268
xiangfan High School (through Global Giving)  Address educational gap for high school studentsHubei Province, China $25,000
Metanoia – After-school program Charleston, S.C. $25,000
Friends of the Stoughton Area Youth Center Space for Youth ProgrammingStoughton, Wisc. $20,000
Bartholomew Consolidated School Foundation   M2 Math ProgramColumbus, Ind. $15,000
Orion Enterprises – Laptops for students Pune, India $14,025GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COMMUNITY GRANT OR dONATIONCUMMINS 
FOUNdATIONS CUMMINS INC.
Education – cont.
Brown County Foundation – Computer hardware / software Nashville, Ind. $12,500
Putnam County High Schools  Create clubs to teach students about charitable organizationsCookeville, Tenn. $12,000
Malcolm Sargent Primary School Environmental Challenge grant recipientStamford, U.K. $10,226
Bartholomew Consolidated School Corporation 
Book Buddies expansionColumbus, Ind. $10,000
Community Education Coalition Early childhood education initiativeColumbus, Ind. $10,000
Indiana Chamber Foundation – Indiana Vision 2025 Indianapolis, Ind. $10,000
Saint Vasile School – Environmental Challenge grant recipient Craiova, Romania $10,000
Nucleo Assistencial Bezerra de Menezes Environmental Challenge grant recipientSão Paulo, Brazil $10,000
School on Wheels – Educational funding Indianapolis, Ind. $10,000
Environment
EARTH University – Educational funding Guácimo, Limón, Costa Rica $3,300,000
Tennessee Parks and Greenways Foundation   Support to convert a tract of private land into a public parkNashville, Tenn.  $75,000
Sierra Gorda – ECO clubs San Luis Potosí, Mexico $61,385
Community Estacion km58 – Jobs program San Luis Potosí, Mexico  $48,716
queen Eleanor School (through Global Giving) 
Support to achieve National Environmental Green Flag Award Stamford, U.K. $33,792 
Hands on Nashville – Repair flood damaged waterways Nashville, Tenn. $30,000
Los Ojos de dios – Rehabilitation program Juárez, Mexico $28,467
Global Village of Beijing (through Global Giving) 
Develop economic opportunities for villagersBeijing, China $26,392
Yongsheng County Rural Community  development Association (through Global Giving)  Economic development project Kunming, China $25,332
xiangyang Charity Federation  Plant trees to offset carbon releasedHubei Province, China $24,112
Northern kentucky Hazardous Materials Weapons  Response Team - Household hazardous waste collectionWalton, Ky. $18,400
Bartholomew County Solid Waste Management district  
Tox-Away DayColumbus, Ind. $15,000
Green Hills – Environmental Challenge grant recipient Pune, India $10,000
Energy Matters Community Coalition 
Environmental Challenge grant recipientColumbus, Ind. $10,000
Springbrook Nature Center Foundation Environmental Challenge grant recipientFridley, Minn. $10,000
Rural Technology Institute – Energy efficient stoves project Pune, India $10,000
AIESEC – Youth organization Beijing, China $10,000
Tampadhum – Environmental Challenge grant recipient San Luis Potosí, Mexico $10,000CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
76    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    77
BOARd OF dIRECTORS
Chairman Tom Linebarger
Chairman and CEO, Cummins
Director Jean Blackwell 
Executive Vice President –  Corporate Responsibility, Cummins 
Director Mark Gerstle 
Vice President – Community Relations, 
Cummins
Director Will Miller  
President – Wallace Foundation 
Member of Cummins Board of Directors
Director Marya Rose 
Vice President and Chief Administrative 
Officer, Cummins
Director Pat Ward 
Vice President – Chief Financial Officer, Cummins
Director Tony Satterthwaite
Vice President 
President – Power Generation Business,Cummins
Director Anant Talaulicar
Vice President
President – Components Group
Chairman – Cummins IndiaFOUNdATION OFFICERS
Chief Executive Officer Jean Blackwell
Executive Vice President –  
Corporate Responsibility, Cummins
Treasurer Marsha Allamanno  
Corporate Responsibility  
Finance Director, Cummins
Secretary Mary Chandler  
Director – Corporate Responsibility  Policy and Planning, Cummins
AUdIT COMMITTEE
Chair Marsha Hunt 
Vice President – Controller, Cummins
Luther Peters 
Vice President – Internal Audit, Cummins
Karen Battin
Vice President – Controller,  
Engine Business, Cummins 
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
Chair Gloria Griesinger 
Executive Director – Global Treasury  and Pensions, Cummins
Greg Ehlinger 
Executive Director –  
Corporate Development, Cummins 
Marsha Hunt 
Vice President – Controller, CumminsGRANTEE ORGANIzATION COMMUNITY GRANT OR dONATIONCUMMINS 
FOUNdATIONS CUMMINS INC.
Social Justice
United Way Agencies – US Matching Program United States $2,526,126
Minnesota Indian Women’s Resource Center 
Empower American Indian Women and FamiliesMinneapolis, Minn. $231,630
John Townsend Trust – Visitor Education Center Kent, U.K. $176,000
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Central Indiana 
Six Sigma Project ImplementationIndianapolis, Ind.  $150,000
EW Tipping Foundation (through Global Giving) Provide a customized vanCarnegie, Australia $121,851
Grameen America – Operating expense Indianapolis, Ind. $100,000
People Serving People – Green Initiative Project Minneapolis, Minn. $85,036 
Soydoy Foundation (through Global Giving) 
Provide children with nutritional supplementsBogota, Columbia $85,000 
Wisconsin Vietnam Veterans Memorial Project Provide educational equipment Neillsville, Wisc.  $58,587
Rise Inc. – Self Sufficiency Project Minneapolis, Minn. $57,922 
Gleaner’s Food Bank – Facility replacement and repair project Indianapolis, Ind. $39,597 
BOMA Fund – Micro finance and job training opportunity Kenya, Africa $29,200 
Gleaner’s Food Bank – Back Sacks Program Walesboro, Ind.  $25,000
Street kids International – Educational opportunities Vijayawada, India $25,000 
Wuxi Social Welfare House (through Global Giving) Therapy equipment Wuxi, China  $23,000
Emmaus vzw (through Global Giving) Provide equipment and training materials Mechelen, Belgium $20,652
Gleaner’s Food Bank – Back Sacks Program Seymour, Ind. $20,000
Love Chapel – Emergency Assistance Fund Columbus, Ind. $20,000
Sans Souci Equipment to re-design and improve warehouse flowColumbus, Ind.  $19,675
Friends of the Chautauqua County  Child Advocacy Program – Expansion projectJamestown, N.Y. $15,000 
Community Emergency Assistance Program 
Replace communication technology  Brooklyn Park, Minn. $10,997
developmental Services Inc. – Feasibility study Columbus, Ind. $10,000
AdEC Inc. – Environmental Challenge grant recipient Bristol, Ind. $10,000
CommonBond Communities  
Environmental Challenge grant recipientSt. Paul, Minn. $10,000
Shepherd Community Environmental Challenge grant recipientIndianapolis, Ind. $10,000
Family Nurturing Center 
Environmental Challenge grant recipientFlorence, Ky. $10,000
BAIF development Research Foundation Environmental Challenge grant recipientPune, India $10,000
deep Griha Society – Environmental Challenge grant recipient Pune, India $10,000
Maharashtra Arogya Mandal (MAM) Environmental Challenge grant recipientPune, India $10,000Foundation Leaders
The Cummins Foundation is governed  
by these officials and committees:EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
78    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    79
“Our ultimate goal is to develop a culture 
where we all look after each other to ensure everyone is safe,” said Michelle Garner-
Janna, Director – Corporate Health  
and Safety. 
LOOkING BACk AT A GREAT YEAR
While health and safety leaders are  
focused on the future, 2011 was truly an 
outstanding year. Here’s a quick look back:
 »Health and safety officials won top awards for their road safety program and for the development of information 
technology to help achieve health and 
safety goals (page 12).
 »The Distribution Business Unit (DBU) held a “Time Out for Safety” event in 
September 2011 where thousands of 
employees stopped their normal work routine to watch a video featuring their peers talking about their on–the-job injuries and the impact they had on  
their lives. Employees then discussed 
ways they could make their own workplaces safer.
 »The DBU also held safety summits  
in Australia and Africa over the past  
year (page 80).
 »Those events followed a very successful global workshop in 2011 where the Company’s safety personnel from around 
the world gathered in Indianapolis, Ind.A number of Cummins locations  
celebrated safety milestones over  the past 12 months including:
 »Employees at Cummins Filtration Plant  in Neillsville, Wis., recorded 2 million hours without a lost work-day injury  in July 2011.
 »Cummins Emission Solutions employees in Mineral Point, Wis. celebrated 1 million hours without a lost work day injury in November 2011.
 »The Cummins East Asia Research  
& Development Center recorded  
1,000 accident-free days in June 2011. 
 »Employees at Cummins Turbo Technologies’ Dewas, India plant 
celebrated three years of zero  
OSHA incidents in October 2011.
TWO kEY dEVELOPMENTS
Health and safety leaders give a lot  
of the credit for the record year to  
improved technology and a new 
communications plan. 
Cummins identifies and assesses  
potential safety hazards through the 
Company’s Health and Safety Enterprise 
Management System. The system sets  key objectives and monitors health and safety performance in a uniform way  across all Company facilities.For the first time, Cummins met all of  its targets in 2011 for the Company’s  
key safety performance indicators.  
The 2011 goals were the toughest the Company had ever set and came amid rapid growth for Cummins, especially 
outside the United States.
Among the most notable achievements:
 »Cummins recorded a 32 percent 
improvement in its Incidence Rate compared to 2010.
 »The Company had a 25 percent improvement in its Severity Lost Work Day Rate over the same time period.
 »Cummins achieved a 34 percent 
decrease in the Company’s Severity  
Case Rate when compared to 2010.
 »In December of 2011, Cummins  recorded no Major Injuries and no Dangerous Occurrences – a first  
for the Company since 2009.“These rates are far better compared to the 
industry average and we are indeed one of 
the best,” said Jim Lyons, Vice President of 
Corporate Manufacturing and Chairman of Cummins’ Health, Safety and Environment Council, in a podcast to health and safety 
leaders around the world.
“But we are on a journey,” Lyons added, 
“and ‘Best in Class’ is simply a milestone toward becoming ‘world class’ in people safety and health, and creating the  
right environment.” 
Cummins believes strongly that safety 
is a key component of sustainability. Our workforce is our greatest asset and 
protecting that asset is critical to the 
financial well-being of the Company. 
For their part, health and safety leaders 
plan to continue their aggressive approach, rolling out a number of initiatives in 2012 
ranging from a program promoting electrical 
safety at all Cummins facilities to an initiative focusing on enhanced ergonomics for both plant and office employees.A record year in safety
Health and safety leaders say they hope to build on 
Cummins’ safest year ever to establish a culture throughout 
the Company where everyone takes responsibility for  
safety – leaders, managers and employees.EMPLOYEE RELATIONS // SAFETY
HIGHLIGHTS
 »Cummins enjoys safest 
year ever in 2011.
 »Safety officials honored for their driver safety campaign and use  of technology to  advance safety.
 »Distribution Business Unit seeks to make emotional connection to safety.
Cummins East Asia Research & Development Center employees 
celebrate 1,000 accident-free days in June 2011 by lining up in 
the number 1,000. It was one of many safety accomplishments 
in what officials say was the Company’s safest year ever.EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
80    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    81Safety summits sponsored by Cummins 
Distribution Business Unit (DBU) in Africa and Australia over the last 12 months 
didn’t include a dry recitation of injury 
statistics. Nor did they involve much  in the way of training.
Instead, organizers wanted to make an 
emotional connection with their audience.
“The object of these summits was 
to explore and reinforce participants’ personal commitment to safety,”  said Adam Tucker, Director – Health, 
Safety and the Environment for the DBU. 
“This is about everyone in the Cummins family returning safely home to their families each night.”
The summits, which involved everyone 
from leadership to the shop floor, are  part of a larger campaign at Cummins built around the theme “Safety Begins with Me.” Participants start by discussing 
how to make their workplaces safer.  
The key moment comes later when they are asked what personal commitment they are willing to make toward the goal 
of a safer workplace.
“Safety isn’t just about following the  
rules, it’s about doing the right thing  when no one is watching,” Tucker said. “To get this level of dedication to safety, 
you have to make it personal.”
Tucker said the reaction has been 
extremely positive. DBU is planning similar events around the world in  
2012 and beyond.Armed with data showing half of the plant’s 
recordable injuries were ergonomic related 
in 2010, resulting in 108 Lost Work Days, 
she went to see Operations Director Aaron Borunda, who quickly agreed.
“When you have ergonomic injuries – 
sprains and strains and back problems – it 
can take a long time to recover,” Rojas said. 
“Nobody wants that – not employees or their managers.”
Working to recondition engine parts can 
be especially tricky from an ergonomic 
standpoint. Each used engine can  present unique challenges requiring  different techniques to take apart. 
Rojas, who has a background in ergonomic 
injury prevention, says the good news is 
that some pretty simple steps, ranging  from stretching exercises to re-evaluating how to do a particular job, can make a  
big difference.
While she says there were plenty of raised 
eyebrows at first, employees at San Luis Potosí today are thinking about ways  they can do their jobs that reduce the  
stress on their bodies.Some jobs have been redesigned  
to promote proper posture. And more  
than a few employees are performing  
preventive stretching. Almost everyone  has participated in some aspect of ergonomic injury prevention.
The early results are promising.  
Recordable ergonomic injuries dropped  
by 50 percent in 2011 and Lost Work  Days decreased from 108 to 49 days.The system establishes minimum standards at Cummins locations for chemical safety, 
emergency preparedness, lockout and 
tagout of equipment and more. A new audit tool incorporates the latest health and safety standards from the International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO) and 
makes it much easier for an individual site to see what others are doing to tackle comparable challenges.
“It’s never been so easy to share best 
practices,” said Cummins’ Occupational 
Health Director Kelli Smith. “I think it’s a major advancement.”
Health and safety leaders also implemented 
a detailed communications plan that took 
into account the target audience and the best tools to reach that audience. A very informal system was replaced with a much more thoughtful and effective approach.
“We are doing a much better job of getting 
out the message that safety is everybody’s job,” said James Dorris, Cummins’ Occupational Safety Director.
LOOkING AHEAd
In 2012, health and safety officials expect to 
complete the rollout of an electrical safety plan that includes a robust tool kit and assessments of more than 150 Cummins  
or Cummins-related facilities. 
Officials also expect to make progress on 
improving ergonomics in 2012 throughout the Company now that the infrastructure is 
in place for a significant focus on that area.
“This is a key year,” Dorris said.  
“We absolutely can’t afford to become complacent. We should all view 2011  as the beginning of our safety journey,  
not the end.”‘Ergo Team’ charts safer path for plant 
When Health, Safety and Environment Manager  
Patricia Rojas started seeing an increase in ergonomic 
injuries in 2010 at Cummins’ New and Reconditioned  
Parts plant in San Luis Potosí, Mexico, she knew  
changes had to be made – and fast.
Health, Safety and Environment 
Manager Patricia Rojas sits at 
a table in the physical therapy 
area at San Luis Potosí that 
was developed as part of the 
project. Employees use blocks, 
tubs of lentils and other simple 
items to enhance exercises designed to develop strength 
and avoid injuries.MAkING SAFETY PERSONALEMPLOYEE RELATIONS
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    83One way Cummins works to create the  
right environment for success is through  a program called Unleashing the Collective 
Power of Groups and Individuals, also 
known as the Affirmative Development Project. This project brings employees  at all levels together to learn and practice 
skills that facilitate better understanding  
and engagement.
Workshops are customized for each 
participating group, depending on its specific needs, and help managers work 
more effectively with affinity groups, which 
are organized at Cummins around a specific demographic trait, and Local Diversity Councils, which are designed to promote 
diversity in general. The project’s goal:  
help all employees reach their full potential.
“This project helps employees who are 
affinity group or Local Diversity Council members, as well as leaders, better align 
and strengthen their organizations. It helps 
managers and supervisors better connect with and lead diverse teams,” said Lisa Gutierrez, Executive Director of Cummins’ Global Diversity Department.
HOW IT WORkS
While much of the discussion during  
the sessions is customized to meet  the particular cultural needs of the 
audience, the framework remains  
the same around the world.  
A series of one-on-one conversations with 
employees at all levels of the organization begins the workshop planning process. 
These conversations are intended to  
help the facilitators better understand  the intricacies and concerns of the  local cultures they will be working  
with throughout the project. 
The second part is a full day session with 
affinity group and Local Diversity Council members, their managers and the local leadership. This event offers a venue for 
employees to speak freely about issues, 
work collaboratively to develop plans to Rojas started her initiative by sponsoring  a Six Sigma project on injuries at the plant. 
Six Sigma is the data-based problem 
solving tool used across Cummins. Rojas recruited participants from various areas  of the plant to be part of her team to  
ensure each area had a voice in the effort.
She said Borunda’s willingness to  
enhance the “Ergo Team” by adding  15 young engineering interns was critical.  The engineers, who received some  
basic training in ergonomics, brought  
fresh new ideas to the project as well  as a lot of energy. 
“Six Sigma is our cultural tool to attack 
complex issues,” Borunda said. “Then  
you need resources around to execute  the method and make the difference.”
An added benefit of Rojas’ initiative is 
that the engineers will now have a good 
understanding of how the processes they 
design can impact an operator’s health, positively impacting quality and efficiency  as well as health and safety. Rojas, though, said the most important thing her team did was talk to employees  
to learn what they were thinking.
“The person doing a job, they know  
what is giving them trouble, what is  causing them discomfort,” Rojas said. 
“Really listening helps you come up with  
the best solution and makes changes  much easier to implement.”
Plant leaders set priorities and implemented 
a program in 2011 that included an 
improved procedure to report incidents 
to the medical department, prevention of some injuries through exercise, and some engineering changes in the way certain jobs 
were performed. 
In addition, a physical therapy clinic was 
established using simple things like a tub  full of rice or lentils and blocks of wood  to enhance exercises to build strength.
“I think our project went beyond just 
preventing injuries,” said Rojas, who believes it could be a model for other Cummins facilities. “Not only is the  
plant safer, I think we’ve helped  
improve the work environment, too.”
Leveraging the full benefit of diversity
A diverse and inclusive work environment helps all 
employees work more effectively and efficiently, both with 
their local teams and with colleagues around the world. 
This ability to work locally and globally allows Cummins to 
focus on leveraging the full power of the Company for its 
customers no matter where they are located.EMPLOYEE RELATIONS // DIVERSITY
HIGHLIGHTS
 »Affirmative 
Development  
Project goes to  
Brazil and Australia.
 »Chairman’s Diversity Council meets on  
a range of issues.
 »Company adds  
more employee resource groups.
PROPER POSTURE IS kEY
As part of its review of plant operations,  
the ergonomics team at San Luis Potosí  
redesigned some jobs. In the “before” picture  
on the left, an employee stretches awkwardly  to pick up something out of a bin. The job  was redesigned so the employee could pick up  
what she needed without reaching a long way.  
The plant has been seeing fewer ergonomic  injuries since making this and other changes.EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
84    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    85Most recently, the project launched in 
Australia with the goal of re-energizing  two employee resource groups: a  
Women’s Affinity Group and a Local  
Diversity Council, and launching  an affinity group for apprentices. 
“Everyone has a role to play in creating a 
great work environment,” said Gino Butera, 
Executive Managing Director, Asia Pacific. “We saw how passionate employees are about creating an inclusive environment where everyone can realize their potential. 
This workshop allowed us to see how 
vested employees are in our success,  and now we are working to ensure that we continually look for ways to empower these 
employees to share their perspectives.” 
Employees give high praise for these 
sessions. Managers believe they are  better equipped to handle difficult situations as a result of the workshops, and nearly 
every employee would recommend the 
workshops to colleagues. 
OTHER dIVERSITY dEVELOPMENTS 
The Unleashing the Collective Power of 
Groups and Individuals project was one of 
several important developments for diversity at Cummins in 2011-2012. Others include:
 »The Chairman’s Diversity Council, comprised of Chairman and CEO  
Tom Linebarger’s leadership team,  
met quarterly and discussed topics such as emotions and power and influence in the workplace. The council discusses  and implements decisions related to 
diversity strategies, confirming diversity  
as a key Cummins’ value.
 »Cummins added several more employee resource groups and now has more than 
100 affinity groups and Local Diversity 
Councils, spanning 10 countries across six continents.
 »Cummins was honored by several groups for its commitment to diversity 
including DiversityInc, which again named 
Cummins to its list of the top companies for diversity; and the Human Rights Campaign, the largest advocacy group 
for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender 
employees (page 12).strengthen the impact of affinity groups  and Local Diversity Councils, and explore ways to manage and work more effectively 
in diverse teams while also experiencing  
role modeling and championing from Cummins leaders. 
The final part is a full-day session 
designed specifically to help managers 
and supervisors in managing their diverse teams. Through facilitated discussion and group exercises, managers develop action plans to assist them in connecting 
more productively with employees whose 
backgrounds and experiences are different than theirs. A key challenge is to move  their skills from good to great.
Participants are surveyed before the 
workshops and 90 and 120 days after  the sessions to gauge the short- and  long-term effects of the training. The project has been delivered in Columbus, Ind.; India and China in recent years. During the past 12 months, the 
initiative kicked off in Brazil and Australia. 
In Brazil, more than 300 employees at all 
levels attended the sessions, which were conducted with simultaneous translation to 
ensure understanding. Four new employee 
resource groups were launched, including affinity groups for women, Generation Y, Afro-Brazilian and Special Needs. 
“Our workshops in Brazil helped us as 
leaders to see opportunities to include 
perspectives that we may not have previously thought about,” said Luis Pasquotto, Vice President – South America 
Area Business Organization. “It’s important 
to capture the voices of employees at all levels. This workshop helped us rediscover the tremendous advantage our diversity gives us. Now we have more than a  
forum where those voices can be heard  
on a regular basis.” 
Managers in Perth, Australia 
participate in an Affirmative 
Development Project workshop 
where they learn how to 
manage people from different 
backgrounds and cultures.  
The workshop is called 
“Embracing Diversity: Your Role in Creating a Winning Team.”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tom Linebarger shares 
his feelings about the 
importance of diversity in  
the Company’s growth plans 
during a town hall meeting 
sponsored by the CBS and 
Corporate Local Diversity Council in Columbus, Ind.  
in April 2012.EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
86    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    87“The inner workings are left to each circle 
to decide what will work best for their group,” said Jessica Kuehner, Co-Leader 
of the affinity group now. “WAG provides 
guidelines to the circles on how to decide their topics, meeting agendas for the first few meetings to get the circles started and 
feedback gathered from past sessions on 
what works well and is popular.”
Mentoring circles, however, are just one  
of many projects undertaken by the group.
The WAG’s Executive Speakers Series 
enables top executives at Cummins to 
share career advice with others. The WAG also developed Discover Cummins, an event to help new employees learn more 
about the Company by visiting booths 
sponsored by various functions within Cummins. (Today, Discover Cummins is  hosted by LAUNCH – Leaders Advancing Uniting and Networking Cummins Hires, 
an affinity group that focuses on helping 
employees who have been with Cummins for less than five years.)The WAG has also successfully  campaigned for rooms in many  Cummins facilities for nursing mothers.
Finally, the group frequently works  
with women’s groups at other Cummins facilities around the world to help them launch their own affinity group and  
share ideas for programs. 
Now, the affinity group’s Co-Leaders  
Jamie Freeman and Kuehner are planning  for the future and the issues the WAG  will champion for the next 10 years.
“With strong leadership in place, and  
a large, active membership,” they say,  “the Southern Indiana WAG will continue  to champion women for years to come.”When Tina Vujovich was asked to sponsor Cummins’ first Women’s Affinity Group in 2001, she wasn’t quite sure what to expect. 
“I found several women who were 
dedicated to helping one another,” said Vujovich, retired Vice President of Marketing and Environmental Policy at the Company. “We put together a team that instinctively 
set about surveying the broad population  
of women at Cummins to learn what it  was that they were looking for from the affinity group. Suddenly, we knew what  
we needed to do.”The result: More than 270 employees 
showed up for the first meeting. 
Today, the Women’s Affinity Group (WAG)  
of Southern Indiana is one of Cummins’ 
oldest affinity groups, closely tied to the needs of its target audience and providing assistance in key areas such as career development, business enhancement, 
recruiting and retention. 
The WAG, which celebrated its  
10th anniversary in 2011, is one of more than 40 affinity groups at Cummins located 
across the world. These groups are 
organized around a variety of dimensions of diversity: gender, race, ethnicity, special needs, veteran status and country of origin. 
“Career development and networking  
have been long-standing initiatives 
throughout our existence,” said Amy Liimatta, a member of the group since  its inception who also served a stint as its 
leader. “It’s something women very clearly 
wanted from the group.”
Mentoring circles, for example, have  
been a very successful initiative offered by the group, bringing together successful 
women at Cummins and newcomers to 
the Company. In a mentoring circle, the protégés are paired with one male and  one female mentor, allowing more women 
to have access to company leaders than 
with one-on-one mentoring.Making a difference  
for women at Cummins
Members of the Women’s 
Affinity Group Leadership  
Team in Columbus, Ind.
Jill Cook, Vice President –  
Human Resources and 
sponsor of the Women’s 
Affinity Group of Southern 
Indiana speaks at the  
group’s 10th anniversary 
celebration in 2011.
“Career development and  
networking have been long-standing 
initiatives throughout our existence.  
It’s something women very clearly  
wanted from the group.”
AMY LIIMATTA 
SERVICE FUNCTIONAL EXCELLENCE LEADER AND PAST LEADER  
OF THE WOMEN’S AFFINITY GROUP OF SOUTHERN INDIANAEMPLOYEE RELATIONS
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    89
Very rarely these days is Gordon Fykes 
asked, “What is supplier diversity?”
Instead, Cummins’ Director of Diversity 
Procurement says he is increasingly asked by purchasing personnel across the 
Company, “How do I develop a strategy  
to increase diverse supplier spending?”
Fykes says there’s a huge difference 
between those two questions.
“We’re getting a lot of requests for a  
deeper discussion,” said Fykes, who 
expects he and Supplier Development 
Manager Brian Sanders will be on the road a lot in 2012 as a result. “I think we’re finally 
getting away from the myth that supplier 
diversity is simply about giving away a  slice of the business pie.”
At Cummins, diversity procurement is a key 
business strategy with bottom-line benefits. 
Helping diverse suppliers develop and  
grow will eventually increase competition 
for the Company’s business. That ultimately results in lower prices and better quality for 
Cummins’ purchases.It also increases economic opportunity  
in all of the communities where  
Cummins employees live and work and is 
consistent with the Company’s Corporate Responsibility value to “serve and improve 
the communities in which we live.”
A largely U.S. undertaking (although  
the concept is starting to catch on 
elsewhere), diversity procurement has  
seen considerable growth at Cummins.  In 1995, the Company spent $35 million 
with diverse suppliers in the United States. 
Last year, Cummins recorded $810 million in total diverse supplier spend or  
12.2 percent of its total U.S. purchases.
LOOkING BACk
Cummins’ diversity procurement  
program had several highlights in  
2011-2012, including:
 »Cummins is up to 25 percent in  
spending with minority and women-
owned businesses to fulfill its contracts 
with Chrysler Group LLC, maker of  the Dodge Ram heavy-duty trucks. »The Company pushed back its goal to reach $1 billion in spending on minority-
owned suppliers until 2014 because of 
weakening in the U.S. economy although Fykes says the Company still might reach that goal by the end of 2012.
 »Cummins expanded its educational efforts in the area of diversity procurement, sponsoring a competition at LeMoyne-Owen College in Memphis, Tenn. that asked students to develop a 
model for a Fortune 500 manufacturer 
to increase its business with minority suppliers. The Company hopes to work with the historically black college to  
make the FOCUSS (Framework for 
Opportunity Convergence and the Utilization of Sustainable Solutions) competition an annual event to help develop young entrepreneurs.
 »The Company continued working with the Diverse Manufacturing Supply Chain Alliance (DMSCA) to help develop diverse suppliers. Cummins is sponsoring AMG 
Engineering & Machining of Indianapolis, 
Ind. in the DMSCA training and two other Cummins’ suppliers – Magni-Power Co. of Wooster, Ohio and GB Manufacturing Co. of Delta, Ohio – are taking the  
training on their own.
 »The Company’s participation in the 
National Minority Supplier Development Corp.’s Automotive Industry Group also 
paid big dividends. Members share 
best practices as well as the names of successful minority-owned businesses they’ve worked with. Members of the group include corporations like Chrysler. 
Cummins was invited to join this group 
and is the only member that doesn’t make vehicles.LOOkING AHEAd 
Fykes said perhaps the most exciting 
development has been the emergence over the last few years of a number of diverse 
suppliers capable of taking their relationship 
with Cummins to the next level.
These companies want to be viewed as 
strategic partners. They do more than just 
provide Cummins with a part or service, they suggest ways the Company can 
improve its efficiency or product quality.
He cited, for example:
 »Telamon Corp., a Carmel, Ind.- 
based firm that works with Cummins  
on supply management and IT issues.
 »Turbocam International in Barrington, 
N.H., which specializes in turbo-machinery applications.
 »JBE Inc., a Hartsville, S.C., company  
that provides complex and highly 
technical sub-assemblies and  global supply chain management. 
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS // SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
HIGHLIGHTS
 »Cummins tops $800 
million in spending 
with diverse suppliers.
 »The Company 
expands educational 
initiatives to help develop diverse 
suppliers.
 »Cummins joins 
Automotive Industry 
Group to share  
best practices.Taking supplier diversity  
to the next level
Cummins employees work 
the booth talking about 
supplier diversity at the 
Indiana Minority Supplier 
Development Council 2012 
Trade Show in Indianapolis.
200400600800Spending on diverse suppliers
in millions of dollars
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011The total amount of money Cummins has been spending 
with diverse suppliers has steadily increased since 2006. 
$544.90 million$432.70 million$571.60 million$464.40 million$293.30 million
$810.10 million
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
90    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    91
Leaders of the effort identified best  
practice standards for 31 key processes 
in the Company’s plants around the world. 
Now they are creating a suite of training programs to help employees apply  
those practices.
Shop floor employees began receiving 
training on 12 of the 31 key processes  
in the latter part of 2011. The Company  
has Operations Excellence advisors  either in plants or assigned to regions  
who are qualified to deliver the training. 
Additional processes are expected to  
be added in 2012.
LEAdERSHIP dEVELOPMENT
Cummins believes strongly that leadership 
development is a key component of the 
Company’s sustainability, starting with  
those employees managing others for  the first time and extending to those  
at the highest levels of the Company.
In 2011, the Company launched the first 
phase of its Building Success in Others 
program. This program provides managers 
with the tools they need to help their direct reports become successful at Cummins, 
with an emphasis on managing the growing 
number of employees new to the Company.
There are approximately 3,500 managers 
now in the program, participating in 
webinars and e-learning around the  five key skill areas featured in other 
leadership programs.Meanwhile, 300 top leaders are  
finishing the Leadership Culture Series, 
an initiative created in 2009 to strengthen 
the Company’s commitment to the skills necessary to build successful leaders 
across Cummins. The initiative is moving 
into a new phase as participants begin to roll out what they’ve learned from senior 
leaders in the Company within their  
own organizations.
To help develop a pipeline of leaders from 
all regions where Cummins does business, 
the Company is continuing its Leadership Development Program. The 18-month 
program prepares approximately 15 high 
potential employees from a particular country for future leadership roles in  
their home countries – or elsewhere.
In 2011, the program was initiated  
in China and India. It will be rolled out  
in Brazil and Africa in 2012.
Consistent with the Company’s emphasis 
on continuous improvement, Cummins  
also has an Executive Development 
Program for senior leaders. Now in its fourth cycle, the program brings together small 
groups of high potential senior leaders for  
24 months of extensive education about the Company’s operations. All those selected 
for this program are viewed as potential 
members of the senior leadership team.
Participants have a hand in developing the 
program and travel the globe to learn about 
various aspects of the Company’s business.Onboarding classes, a robust performance management system, training opportunities 
for plant and professional employees alike 
and an extensive system to identify and develop the Company’s next generation 
of leaders are all part of Cummins’ 
comprehensive approach.
With more than 60 percent of its employees 
living outside the United States, the 
Company takes a global view of workforce development. Cummins’ Performance 
Management System, for example,  
is available in 12 different languages.
But while there’s flexibility in the  
Company’s efforts to account for  
differences in language and culture  among Cummins’ 44,000 employees,  
the key principles are consistent across  
the globe. Leaders and managers must have a development mindset built  
around the following critical skill areas:
 »Coaching and development
 »Fostering open communications
 »Managing diversity
 »Talent management
 »Thinking strategically / Set the aimBy training top leaders in these areas 
and then having them work within their 
organizations on the same skills with their 
managers, who have also received training on these skill sets, Cummins believes its 
workforce development efforts will not  
only be effective but sustainable, too. 
STARTING EARLY
Approximately 16,000 professionals are 
now in the Company’s Performance 
Management System. Through the program, Cummins strives to deliver to  
all participating employees the feedback 
they need to succeed in their careers.
The Company is also working to achieve 
consistent functional development within 
various disciplines so someone in finance  in Brazil, for example, is acquiring the  
same skills and is evaluated in the same 
way as a finance employee in Belgium. 
Both steps are critical to developing  
the talent pool Cummins will need in  
the future to succeed.
OPERATIONS ExCELLENCE
The Company’s development efforts also 
extend to the shop floor. In 2011, Cummins created a new initiative to promote and 
develop Operations Excellence in its  
global manufacturing system.EMPLOYEE RELATIONS // WORKFORCE
development mindset key  
to sustainable workforce
The effort to create a sustainable workforce  
begins as soon as an employee joins Cummins  
and continues throughout his or her career.
HIGHLIGHTS
 »Training starts  
with extensive 
onboarding class.
 »New initiative 
promotes excellence in global 
manufacturing system.
 »Developing new 
leaders key to Cummins’ future.Cummins depends on  a high-tech workforce.  Of its 44,000 employees  
as of May 21, 2012,  
the Company has:
Engineers
 »Nearly 7,100 engineers
Information Technology
 »Just over 900 people  
in information  technology positions
Other areas
 »Nearly 3,200 employees  who are not in engineering  or information technology  but have a college degree –  
either a bachelor’s, master’s  
or PhD - in engineering or a science-related field of study
Location
 »About 64 percent of the  
Company’s workforce resides 
outside the United States.
Union
 »About 36 percent of  
the Cummins workforce  
belongs to a union.CUMMINS WORkFORCEGOVERNANCE & RISk
GOVERNANCE & RISk
92    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012
2011 COMPLIANCE TRAINING
OUR PRINCIPLES
Cummins ethics and governance initiatives are built  
around the 10 Statements of Ethical Principles 
in the Code of Business Conduct:
  1 We will follow the law – everywhere.
  2 We will embrace diverse perspectives  
 and backgrounds and treat all people  
 with dignity and respect.
  3 We will compete fairly and honestly.
  4 We will avoid conflicts of interest.
  5 We will demand that everything we do leads  
 to a cleaner, healthier and safer environment.
  6 We will protect our technology, our information  
 and our intellectual property. 
  7 We will demand that our financial records  
 and processes are clear and understandable.
  8 We will strive to improve our communities.
  9 We will communicate with honesty and integrity.
10 We will create a culture where all employees  
 take responsibility for ethical behavior.
Cummins puts these principles into practice  
through a comprehensive compliance training  program targeting appropriate employee  groups to promote ethical behavior.  
The Company has required courses on topics  
ranging from Anti-bribery to Lobbying and  Political Action and Information Protection.
The Company’s policies and procedures  
in these areas are periodically updated.  
For example, in 2012 the Company will  
update its Code of Business Conduct. These figures are accumulated enrollments going  back to when the courses were first implemented.
Course Enrolled Completion  
   Rate
Anti-bribery 17,723 88%          
Antitrust and Fair Competition 7,990 92%              
Careful Communication 22,991 90%   
Code of Business Conduct 16,204 100%
Conflict of Interest 23,663 89%
Export Compliance 17,643 100%             
Fair Labor Standards Act 512 90%
Global Competition  
Principles and Practices 11,384 82% 
Information Protection 22,858 88%               
Intellectual Property 5,522 93%              
Lobbying and Political Action 567 91%               
Managing within the Law 458  97%                
Records and  
Information Management 22,689 100%
Treatment of Others 15,154 100%             The Company took an important step  
in its governance efforts in 2012 by  
creating an ethics and compliance 
organization independent of our business units and corporate functions, led by  an officer at Cummins. 
The move was made not in response to  
any problem but in recognition of the critical role ethics and governance play in the success and sustainability of a company.
“Cummins already has successful 
compliance efforts in most aspects  
of our business,” said Cummins CEO  Tom Linebarger in announcing the move. “This new group will be looking to build  
on these successes and develop our  
processes and resources to ensure continuous improvement.”
Linebarger reminded employees that  
ethical behavior remained the responsibility 
of every employee at Cummins. 
“Acting in accordance with our Code  
of Business Conduct is the responsibility 
of every employee at Cummins and the 
creation of this new ethics and compliance organization does not change the primary accountability each of us has to live Cummins’ values in every aspect of  
our work,” Linebarger said. 
Mark Sifferlen, formerly the Company’s 
Deputy General Counsel, was named  the Company’s first Vice President –  
Ethics and Compliance.Sustainability built  
on good governance
Cummins believes that a sustainable company  
is built on a foundation of good governance  
that promotes ethical behavior at all levels.GOVERNANCE, RISk MANAGEMENT ANd SECURITY
HIGHLIGHTS
 »Cummins establishes  
an ethics and compliance organization independent of its business units.
 »Board of Directors travel to China to review operations and strategy.
 »Risk Management  takes a more holistic approach that includes key global functions.
Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels, 
sitting closest to Chairman 
and CEO Tom Linebarger (far 
right) attended the Company’s 
expansion announcement in 
Seymour, Ind. in the spring of 
2012. Part of the project is a 
commitment on behalf of local, state and company officials to 
focus on education in the city. GOVERNANCE & RISk
GOVERNANCE & RISk
94    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    95
531,076
4,16613
17,909
5001,076
Number of Code of Conduct 
cases around the world investigated by Cummins
53
Percentage of those  cases substantiated
13
Average number of days  to close Code of Conduct cases in 2011, down 
from 15 in 2010
4,166
Cummins’ suppliers reporting 
to be in compliance with the Company’s Supplier Code  
of Conduct. They represent  
the top 80 percent of  Cummins largest suppliers
17,909
Employees and officers  who completed their  Ethics Certification at  
Cummins in 2011
500
Distribution Business Unit 
locations that will need Business Continuity Plans  
by the end of 2014ETHICS CERTIFICATION PROCESS
Each year, employees certify their 
compliance with the Company’s Code  
of Business Conduct and underlying policies and report any exceptions to Cummins policy.
In 2011, 17,909 employees and officers – 
up from 15,266 in 2010 – completed  
their annual Ethics Certification including  all members of the Board of Directors.
Internal Audit and Cummins Law 
Department reviewed all exceptions 
to ensure they were documented and investigated, according to Company policy.
SUPPLIER COdE OF CONdUCT
Cummins holds suppliers to a higher 
standard than just compliance with local 
laws. That’s why the Company’s Supplier Code of Conduct has been translated  into more than a dozen languages.
The code includes provisions banning  
child or forced labor, respecting employee rights and providing a safe workplace  for employees.
The Company wants to do business  
with suppliers that share its passion  
for sustainable practices and policies.   By the end of 2011, Cummins had sent its code to the Company’s top suppliers 
who collectively received 80 percent of 
Cummins’ total spending. All reported  they were in compliance. 
JOINT VENTURE RELATIONSHIPS
By doing business through alliances with 
partners and joint venture agreements, 
Cummins can increase market penetration around the world, streamline supply chain management, expand product lines and 
develop new technologies.
The Company takes appropriate steps to 
ensure these business relationships share Cummins values regardless of whether  the Company directly manages these 
alliances and joint ventures. Cummins 
screens potential partners carefully and  only initiates a joint venture with partners whom Company leaders know and trust.
Cummins strives to ensure its values 
are part of joint venture agreements and operations by making values important to Cummins a part of negotiations, and by ensuring Cummins employees are included 
on joint venture boards of directors.ETHICS VIOLATIONS, REPORTING  
ANd INVESTIGATIONS
Any effective governance and ethics 
program must have a mechanism to  ensure ethical codes are enforced.
Employees at all levels at Cummins are 
frequently reminded that they have an 
obligation to report suspected violations  of Cummins’ Code of Business Conduct. They can do that in a number of ways, including telling a supervisor, reporting it  
on-line at ethics.cummins.com or by calling 
the Cummins Ethics Help Line (the number varies by country but in the United States  at 1-800-671-9600). All reports are 
investigated and violations at any level  
of the Company are acted on swiftly  and appropriately. 
The Company also ensures that no  
one’s career can be negatively affected  by reporting suspected code violations  made in good faith. Where permitted by local law, employees can report potential 
violations anonymously.
Cummins has a team of Master 
Investigators who respond to reports  of violations to the Company’s Code  of Business Conduct and make sure  
an appropriate action is taken in a  
timely manner. The Company has Master Investigators in most regions of the world.
In 2011, Cummins investigated 1,076 code 
of conduct-related complaints compared to 
814 in 2010. Forty-seven percent of those complaints came from outside the United States, and 24 percent of all complaints were reported anonymously.
Of those cases investigated in 2011,  
53 percent were substantiated and  38 percent of those substantiated  cases resulted in employee terminations.  
Reports of unprofessional behavior and 
those grouped into the category of  Human Relations accounted for the  most Code of Business Conduct cases.
The Company averaged 13 days to close 
cases in 2011, down from 15 days in 2010.
Cummins’ senior leaders closely  
monitor reported violations and approve corrective actions. Each quarter, business 
unit leaders receive an update on reports  
in their region or business. Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger also receives updates and an annual update is reviewed by the  Audit Committee of the Cummins  
Board of Directors.“Acting in accordance  
with our Code of Business 
Conduct is the responsibility 
of every employee at 
Cummins and the creation 
of this new ethics and 
compliance organization  
does not change the  
primary accountability  
each of us has to live 
Cummins’ values in every 
aspect of our work.”
TOM LINEBARGER 
CHAIRMAN AND CEOGOVERNANCE  
BY THE NUMBERSGOVERNANCE & RISk
GOVERNANCE & RISk
96    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    97
STEPHEN B. dOBBS
Senior Group President at Fluor 
Corporation, a Fortune 500 
company that offers engineering, 
procurement, construction, maintenance, and project management services.  
He joined the board in 2010.N. THOMAS LINEBARGER
Chairman and CEO of  
Cummins Inc. since January 
2012. Previously, President  
and Chief Operating Officer.  He joined the board in 2009.ALExIS M. HERMAN
Chairman and CEO of New 
Ventures, LLC, a corporate 
consulting company. She joined 
the board in 2001 and currently serves as Lead Director.Cummins is governed by a nine-member 
Board of Directors. Eight of the nine 
directors are independent of the  Company. Cummins Chairman and  CEO Tom Linebarger is the only Cummins employee on the board. Each Director  
must stand for election annually.
The board represents and protects  
the interests of Cummins’ stakeholders. The board has the legal responsibility for 
overseeing the affairs of the Company, 
exercising sound and independent business judgment regarding significant, strategic and operational issues. The board also advises senior management and adopts 
governance principles consistent with 
Cummins’ Vision, Mission and Values.
The board takes an active role in fulfilling 
these responsibilities. Directors traveled  
to China, for example, in the fall of 2011  
to see the Company’s facilities there,  meet with key Company personnel as  well as customers and review strategy.
The board monitors a number of issues:
 »The performance of the Company.
 »The performance of senior management.
 »Compliance with all applicable laws  
and regulations.
 »Communications and relationships  with stakeholders.
 »The effectiveness of internal controls  and risk management practices.
 COMMITTEES
Cummins Board of Directors  
has six standing committees:
 »Compensation Committee
 »Governance and Nominating Committee
 »Audit Committee
 »Finance Committee
 »Safety, Environment and  Technology Committee
 »Executive Committee
The Company complies with all  New York Stock Exchange and  regulatory requirements concerning  the membership of certain committees.
INTERNAL AUdIT
Cummins Internal Audit department 
provides the board and senior leaders  with objective and independent information on the performance of the Company’s 
control environment. 
The Vice President – Internal Audit reports 
to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. In 2011, the Internal Audit Group 
published 144 audit reports and memos. 
To ensure management has addressed identified risks and implemented corrective action, Internal Audit has a formal  follow-up process.
The responsible business or functional 
leader must present a corrective action  plan to the Audit Committee of the Board  of Directors when a function or business 
receives an “Unacceptable” audit grade.Cummins Board of directors
ROBERT J. BERNHARd
Vice President for Research  
and a professor of Engineering  
at the University of Notre Dame. 
He joined the board in 2008.GEORGIA R. NELSON
President and CEO of PTI 
Resources, LLC, an independent 
consulting firm. She joined the 
board in 2004.
FRANkLIN CHANG dIAz
Chairman and CEO of the Ad 
Astra Rocket Company, a U.S. 
spaceflight engineering company 
based in Houston, Texas.  He joined the board in 2009. CARL WARE
Retired Coca-Cola Executive  
and President and COO,  
Ware Investment Properties LLC.  
He joined the board in 2004.
WILLIAM I. MILLER
President of the New York-based 
Wallace Foundation focused on 
K-12 education and the arts.  
He joined the board in 1989.ROBERT k. HERdMAN
Managing Director of  
Kalorama Partners, LLC,  
a Washington, D.C. - based 
consulting firm. He joined  the board in 2008.
GOVERNANCE & RISk
GOVERNANCE & RISk
98    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    99
BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLANS
A major task for the Risk Management 
staff, however, remains the preparation 
of Business Continuity Plans for the most 
critical Cummins locations.
These plans include detailed information on 
crisis communications, operational recovery 
and emergency preparedness. Upon 
completion, the plans are transferred to local leaders who update them annually.
The staff has prepared well over 100 plans, 
but as Cummins grows, the need for 
additional plans increases. The Distribution 
Business Unit, for example, wants all of its sites and branches – some 500 locations – to have continuity plans by the end of 2014.
To meet that goal, McBroom said the  
staff has created a Business Continuity  Plan training package that helps sites  create their own plans, with the Risk Management team providing support 
remotely. This new training package  
enables the Risk Management team to focus on the “big picture” as our global footprint continues to expand. 
Recent natural disasters ranging from 
the tsunami in Japan and earthquakes in Mexico, to the tornadoes in Southern Indiana and Kentucky in the spring of  2012 underscore the urgency of completing 
the plans. To protect Cummins’ supply 
chain against similar risks, the Company’s suppliers are also asked to create and maintain their own continuity plans.That’s why Cummins’ Risk Management team is now taking a broader approach  to their work: not just focusing on how  to keep a particular location operational,  but also how to keep numerous global 
functions operating.
“The idea is to take a more holistic 
approach to risk management,” says Brian McBroom, Cummins Director of Risk 
Management. “We want to expand our focus to global processes to make sure we 
have the redundancy necessary to meet our customers’ needs in a global marketplace.”
Cummins believes strongly that managing 
risk effectively enables a company to invest 
in building stronger communities and in 
reducing its environmental footprint.  This means the Company cannot afford lengthy delays, especially in its most  
critical functions.
Senior leaders at the Company maintain a 
continually updated list of the top threats facing Cummins. Frequently, Six Sigma Black Belts, those employees most adept  
at using the business problem solving tool, 
are assigned to research potential threats and possible counter actions.
Additionally, leaders present a “Risk  
Map,” “Risk Dashboard,” and a list of the  
“Top 10 Risks” and their corresponding mitigation strategies at every Board of Directors meeting. This keeps Cummins directors informed about potential  
obstacles to the Company’s success.Managing risk key to sustainability
Keeping our business units up and running is the ultimate  
goal of the Risk Management group at Cummins, making  
their work critical to keeping our Company sustainable.
Limiting risk for Cummins employees while  
they travel is one of the responsibilities of  the Global Security team at Cummins. 
The team fulfills that mission by providing 
employees with variety of travel information including up-to-the-minute security assessments of travel destinations around the world.  The information is delivered in multiple ways including Global Security’s “Travel Smart, Travel Safe” website available on Cummins’ intranet site.
Billed as “your one stop for your international travel 
needs,” the site includes travel “DOs and DON’Ts”; 
frequently asked questions and answers; travel  
tips for women; travel tips for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees; advice on how to travel with medical prescriptions; weather and 
much more.
The site started in 2010 and has expanded each 
year since. It also offers detailed information on travel to countries that might present a high or moderate risk to visitors, especially those from 
certain parts of the world. 
The Company works with vendors who not only 
provide information but also respond to such things as medical emergencies across the world.
In 2011, the Global Security team initiated and 
completed online training for employees who  travel for their jobs. The training targeted 
employees who travel to high- and moderate- 
risk countries and included advice such as taking different routes to work sites and on how to raise awareness about your personal surroundings.TRAVEL SECURITY
Cummins Japan Ltd. has been 
busy helping with the recovery 
efforts following the March 11, 
2011 tsunami. Months after 
the disaster, volunteers from 
the Company visited two cities 
that were largely destroyed. 
Some are photographed here. Cummins’ facilities suffered 
relatively little damage.GOVERNANCE & RISk
100    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    101
GOVERNANCE & RISkCIPAC is governed by corporate  
policies and bylaws that state:
 »All CIPAC contributions  
are strictly voluntary.
 »The Company will not reimburse 
employees directly or indirectly  for political contributions.
 »Employees will not be pressured  to contribute to CIPAC or make any  other personal political contribution.
 »A decision not to contribute to  CIPAC shall not disadvantage an 
employee’s career in any way.
Contributions to political candidates  
and political organizations are based  on the following criteria:
 »Public integrity of the candidate.
 »Representation of a Cummins  facility or employees.
 »Support for issues of importance  to Cummins.
 »Timely and effective constituent service.
 »Political leadership or organization.
 »Support for the Company’s values.
All of CIPAC’s political activities are 
disclosed to the Cummins Board  
of Directors in an annual political contribution report.LOBBYING
The following list of U.S. trade organizations  
to which Cummins paid dues in excess  
of $50,000 during calendar year 2011  
and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,  which fell below the $50,000 threshold. Listed with each entity is Cummins’ 
estimation of the portion of these dues  
used by each organization for lobbying  or other political expenditures.
The American Trucking Associations
The Business Roundtable
The diesel Technology Forum
  $127
The Engine Manufacturers 
Association
The National Association of 
Manufacturers
   
U.S. Chamber of Commerce
         GOVERNMENT RELATIONS ANd POLITICAL ACTIVITY
Cummins has government relations 
employees around the world working on 
issues that might have a significant impact on the Company, such as energy policy, environmental legislation, taxes, trade  
and transportation to name just a few.
The Company maintains an office in 
Washington, D.C. but with more than  60 percent of Cummins’ sales coming  from outside the United States, the 
Company also has government relations 
employees in China and India, too. 
These employees work to ensure that 
Cummins’ voice is heard. For example, 
Cummins worked extensively in Washington 
to protect the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s 2010 heavy-duty on-highway emissions standards from delay or modification and supported the 
government’s effort to establish the first  
ever greenhouse gas and fuel consumptions standards for commercial vehicles.
Cummins belongs to a number of trade 
organizations to further its business 
interests. These organizations help the Company by leveraging Cummins’ resources with other companies on  issues where we share similar positions. While Cummins might not agree with the positions these associations take on every issue, the Company believes participating 
in these groups helps ensure government 
officials know where Cummins’ stands on matters critical to the Company.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Cummins bans contributions using 
corporate funds to candidates, political parties and independent expenditure campaigns. This ban includes contributions to 501 (c) (4) and 527 tax-exempt groups 
in the United States for the purpose of 
engaging in political activity. On ballot measures deemed vital to the Company’s interests, Cummins is committed to publicly 
disclosing any payments made directly to 
influence the outcome, including recipient names and amounts. 
Political contributions are made by the 
Cummins Inc. Political Action Committee 
(CIPAC), but the committee is funded  
solely by voluntary employee contributions. CIPAC makes contributions to federal candidates on a bipartisan basis after 
review and approval by CIPAC’s Executive 
Committee and according to federal law.
For a complete list of the political action 
committee’s contributions to candidates,  go to www.fec.gov.
$11,930
$12,500$21,012$30,326
$8,680Members of Cummins’ Board 
of Directors visited China in 
the fall of 2011, participating 
in a ceremony celebrating the 
expansion of the Company’s 
East Asia Research & 
Development Center in Wuhan, 
visiting various facilities and meeting with key personnel  
and customers.LEFT Cummins’ Board of 
Directors visit a Company  
plant in Wuhan during their  
trip to China.
RIGHT Cummins’ Board of 
Directors visit the Beijing Foton 
Cummins Engine Company 
during their trip to China.
FINANCIAL
102    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012    103
APRIL 2012
Cummins announces a major expansion of its Seymour, Ind.  
campus that includes investing  
$219 million in new construction  and the addition of 290 jobs to support the Company’s global  
high horsepower engine business.
MARCH 2012
Cummins announces the start  of development of a 15-liter  heavy-duty, spark-ignited natural  
gas engine to meet demand for  
on-highway applications.
MARCH 2012
Company announces its engines  
will meet North American 2014  
fuel efficiency and greenhouse  gas standards beginning in  January 2013, delivering up to  2 percent greater fuel economy.
NOVEMBER 2011 
Company unveils the new  QSK95 engine with over 4000-hp (2983 kW) output as the world’s 
most powerful high-speed diesel. 
The 95-liter 16-cylinder engine is nicknamed “Hedgehog.”
OCTOBER 2011
Cummins Inc. and Guangxi  
LiuGong Machinery Co. Ltd.  
announce a joint-venture partnership to manufacture MidRange engines at a  
new facility in southern  
China starting in 2013.Overall revenue for 2011 increased  
36 percent compared to 2010.
Net income attributable to Cummins for 
the full year was $1.85 billion. Excluding the benefit from the gains on divestiture 
of two businesses within the Components 
segment, and an insurance settlement stemming from a flood in Columbus, Ind.  
in 2008, the Company reported full-year  
net income of $1.75 billion, up from  $1.04 billion in 2010.
Cummins will make a significant  
investment back into the Company  in 2012. The Company anticipates making  between $800 million and $850 million  
in capital expenditures in 2012 and 
Cummins’ joint ventures are expected  to invest another $550 million to  
$600 million.
The Company expects to continue  
investing around four percent of sales  
back into the business in future years.
Cummins’ financial performance  
has been recognized by several  
outside entities including three  
credit agencies that upgraded  the Company’s ratings in 2011.Cummins has enjoyed more than two years of outstanding growth which continued in 2011 with record revenue of $18 billion and 
a 54 percent increase in Earnings Before 
Interest and Taxes (EBIT).
“Cummins had its best year ever in  
2011, despite economic uncertainty in a 
number of regions,” said Tom Linebarger, the Company’s Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer. “We continue to benefit from our leading position in a number  
of end markets and geographies. 
“Revenue in the United States grew  
53 percent and international revenue  
grew 27 percent year-over-year,” he said. “In fact, we experienced record full-year 
revenues in North America, Brazil,  
China, India and a number of other important markets.”Cummins records strong financial  
performance over past year
A truly sustainable company must be successful financially. 
Without financial success, it’s difficult, if not impossible, 
to invest in building stronger communities, reducing a 
company’s environmental footprint or the research and 
development necessary to ensure a company’s future 
financial success.FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
 »Cummins records  
best year ever in 2011 with record revenue  of $18 billion.
 »2012 growth driven in part by higher demand in truck, power generation and construction markets in North America.
 »Credit agencies  upgrade Cummins’ ratings in 2011.2011* 2010 CHANGE
Revenue $18.05 B $13.23 B Up 36%
EBIT $2.56 B $1.66 B Up 54%
Net Earnings $1.75 B $1.04 B Up 69%
EPS $9.07 $5.28 Up 72%
Cash Flow from Operations $2.07 B $1.01 B Up 106%
ROE 31% 20%2011 – A RECORd YEAR OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCEkEY dEVELOPMENTS
Cummins Chairman and  
CEO Tom Linebarger and Anant 
Talaulicar, President of Cummins’ 
Components Group, tour the 
new Cummins Filtration facility in 
Suwon, South Korea in February 
2012. The nanotechnology-
enabled media produced at the plant is able to filter debris 
smaller than a red blood cell.* EBIT, Net Earnings and EPS exclude the gains from  
 divestiture of two businesses and an insurance settlement.FINANCIAL
104    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011–2012
Solso, the Company’s Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer from 2000 to 2011, had 
long said one of his greatest sustainability 
challenges was finding and developing the 
next generation of leaders at Cummins. 
The transition to Linebarger had been 
underway for five years before Solso’s 
retirement was announced with little fanfare 
in July 2011, the former chairman told employees in a series of transition meetings.
The change, which went into effect  
Jan. 1, 2012, has hardly caused a ripple 
because people both in and outside of the Company were familiar with Linebarger  
and his leadership style.
“As I have said on many occasions, I have 
great confidence in Tom and his team,” Solso said in a final letter to employees 
in December 2011. “So while I leave with 
some sense of sadness, I am also excited 
about the prospects ahead for Cummins.”
Solso, 65, worked in various positions at 
Cummins for 40 years. At the outset of his tenure as CEO, the Company was in the 
midst of severe financial problems. 
Solso and his team, which included 
Linebarger, steered Cummins through those difficulties, then developed a plan for long-
term financial success that resulted in very 
strong financial results for the past two years.
Linebarger, 49, is the first engineer to serve 
as CEO at the Company, but he also has a 
master’s degree in business from Stanford 
University. He served as President and Chief 
Operating Officer at Cummins from August 2008 to December 2011. Prior to that, he 
served as the leader of the Company’s 
Power Generation Business and as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer. 
“Tim left the Company in a much stronger 
condition than he found it,” Linebarger told employees. “That’s something I’d like to  
be able to do as well as he did.”
Solso, who championed Corporate 
Responsibility during his time as the leader 
of the Company, wants to stay active in that 
area through a family foundation. Otherwise, he’s trying to keep his options open as he approaches the next chapter in his life.
Tim Solso and Tom Linebarger 
say years of planning went into 
the transition to Linebarger 
as the Company’s leader in 
January of 2012.Transition goes according to plan
The smooth transition to Tom Linebarger as the new  
leader of Cummins may be one of Tim Solso’s most  
satisfying accomplishments.
CUMMINS’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING dOESN’T ENd WITH THIS dOCUMENT . 
Go to our website – www.cummins.com/sustainability – for regular updates on how we’re meeting  
the needs of all of our stakeholders and practicing good corporate citizenship.
Printed on  
recycled paper
RESOURCE USAGE
COVER   Printed on FSC-certified paper manufactured 
with electricity in the form of renewable energy  
(wind, hydro and biogas), and includes a minimum  
of 30 percent post-consumer recovered fiber. 
INTERIOR   Printed on FSC-certified paper manufactured  
with electricity that is made with 100 percent Certified 
Renewable Energy, from non-polluting wind power 
projects. The 100 percent post-consumer waste fiber 
used to make this paper is process-chlorine free and  is Green-Seal certified. PROdUCTION NOTES 
Design and writing: Cummins Corporate Communications 
Printing: The Merrick Printing Company Cummins Inc.          SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011– 2012
Cummins Inc.
Box 3005
Columbus, Indiana 47202-3005
U.S.A.
cummins.com
©2012 Cummins Inc.
Bulletin Number 4986108