SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013-2014
Setting goals to protect resources
Improving fuel economy, reducing emissions
        Strengthening communitiesABOUT THIS REPORT
Cummins’ 2013-2014 Sustainability Report is 
presented in the spirit of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI). The GRI’s goal is to develop a 
consistent way for companies across the globe to voluntarily report on the environmental, social and economic components of their business.
The Coalition for Environmentally Responsible 
Economies created the GRI in 1997 and works today in collaboration with the United Nations Environment Program and the U.N. Secretary General’s Global Compact to promote  
sustainability reporting.
Cummins takes a broad view of sustainability, 
including areas such as safety, diversity, leadership and governance along with environmental practices, 
corporate responsibility and financial performance.  
The Company believes a truly sustainable company must have a firm financial foundation to invest in product development, environmental improvements and community building.
As a global company, Cummins wants to make a 
difference for all of its stakeholders, today and in the future. This report was published in May, 2014, and is the Company’s 11th annual edition.CONTRIBUTORS
This report relies on the writing, editing,  
design and technical expertise of many people. 
Contributors this year included Marsha Allamanno, 
Mohammed Al-Qudsi, Cory Brandt, Carole Casto, Karen Cecil, Laurie Counsel, Mark Dhennin, Anna Dickerson, Elena Dooley, Roe East, Bill Fak, Joy 
Fischer, John Forte, Emily Foster, Clint Garrett, 
Andre Goodlett, David Goggin, Vaishali  Heblekar, Joann Jones, Lauren Kastner, Melina Kennedy, David Koeberlein, Brijesh Krishnan, Christine Kuo, Carol Lavengood, Sally Leyes, Yangnan Liu, Annie 
Mack, Sara McAninch, Paul Miller, Jon Mills, Brian 
Mormino, Pramod Palat, Amberly Peterson, Alan Resnik, Brian Sanders, Meredith Sanders, Stephen Sanders, Ernie Smith, Todd Swingle, Janet Williams 
and Molly Yedinak.
ABOUT THE COVERThis year’s cover includes photos of Cummins  
Vice President Tony Satterthwaite, President –  Cummins Power Generation, visiting an orphanage 
for children with disabilities in China; the Cummins-
Peterbilt “SuperTruck” and children gathering water at a water project sponsored by Cummins in India.
This report uses a horizontal layout to make  
it easier to read on a computer, hopefully reducing 
the need to print the report.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  3
TABLE Of CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION 
A note from the chairman .................... 4
Cummins around the world .................. 6
Who we are ......................................... 8
How we do it ....................................... 9
Our history ......................................... 10
Vision, mission,  
values and principles ......................... 12
Our key tools ..................................... 13
Our recognition .................................. 14
SUSTAINABLE 
fUTURE
Sustainability plan next step in 
Cummins’ environmental journey ....... 16
Cummins teams up with other  companies to deliver for customer ..... 22
Tech center in India to introduce  new reality at Cummins ...................... 24
ENVIRONmENT
Products .................................... 26
Cummins makes big moves  in pickup, light truck markets ............. 36
Cummins’ testing center keeps  new generators hush, hush ............... 38
 Practices .................................... 40
Cummins strives to reach new  ‘Zero Disposal’ challenge ................... 50
Cummins water conservation  critical to environmental  and business sustainability ................ 52
Energy Champions hunt for savings ... 54
Partnerships and policy ............. 56
Cummins participates in discussions around GHG and fuel consumption regulations  ........................................ 62
‘SuperTruck’ makes big impression ... 64
Cummins Energy Solutions Business transforms lives through energy ......... 66
Dairy and tourist attraction  uses cow power to fuel  Cummins engines .............................. 68
CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY
Cummins employees set new  
record while making a difference  around the world ............................... 70
Cummins challenge pays off  for the environment ............................ 73
Environmental Challenge winners ......78
Cummins Power Generation  assists people with disabilities  around the world ............................... 80
 A grandmother’s cooking launches  global environmental project .............. 83
Reinventing youth  who lost their way .............................. 86
Update: Building support for bringing technical education to students ......... 88
Cummins employees in China inspire  rural students through books ............. 90
Cummins creates model  villages in India .................................. 92
He quietly builds  stronger communities ........................ 94
Child development  is this Baker’s recipe  ......................... 95
Cummins philanthropy: supporting employee passions and skills ............. 96
Foundation leadership ..................... 102
SAfETY
Cummins’ push for health  and safety includes work,  home and community ...................... 104
Cummins says leaders must  make health and safety personal ..... 108
Contractor screening enhances  health and safety at Cummins .......... 110
Defibrillators save lives  at Cummins ..................................... 112
 RIGHT 
ENVIRONmENT
Leveraging the power of diversity ..... 114
Cummins speaks out for diversity .... 119
The social side of engineering .......... 120
Today, he is building a  
better life at Cummins ...................... 122
Diversity procurement at Cummins  is a bottom-line strategy .................. 124
Helping employees succeed  is key goal at Cummins .................... 126
GOVERNANCE
Cummins updates  Supplier Code of Conduct ............... 128
Cummins’ Board of Directors  oversees the Company .................... 132
Risk management key  to sustainability ................................ 134
Keeping Cummins  ‘Safe. Sure. Secure.’  ....................... 135
Government relations  and political activity .......................... 136
fINANCIAL
Cummins creates  shareholder value in 2013 ................ 138
Sustainability report disclosures ....... 141Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  4
INTRODUCTIONA NOTE fROm THE CHAIRmAN
Welcome to the 2013-2014 Sustainability Report, which this year celebrates 
our six core values: Integrity, Innovation, Delivering Superior Results,  
Corporate Responsibility, Diversity and Global Involvement.
Our leaders have embraced these values to  
guide the Company in good times and bad.  Just since their adoption in the year 2000,  
they have helped Cummins successfully  
navigate multiple recessions, tremendous technological changes in our industry and  the advent of fierce global competition.
Cummins’ values provide us with a  
foundation that enables our Company to look  at challenging times not as a moment to stand still, but rather as an opportunity to position ourselves for a bright future, relying on our  
values to guide us more than ever.
Collectively, they are integral to everything  
we do, rooted in a 95-year tradition of  partnering in our customers’ success  
by providing innovative solutions to  
their power needs.
 
 This year’s report features many examples  of Cummins living its values, including:
 »INTEGRITY: Cummins has significantly 
expanded its Environmental Sustainability Plan 
to look at our product design, products in use and other facets of our environmental footprint to see where we can make a positive impact. 
The plan includes goals for reducing our use of 
water and energy and for increasing recycling. Our goals are clear and measurable to drive innovation and collective action, consistent with our Integrity value to do “what is right and 
what we say we will do.” (page 16).
 »INNOVATION: The Company in 2013 
introduced more than 70 new or improved products, launching several new engines for 
everything from pickup and light-duty trucks  
to our new G Series heavy-duty engine platform now in production in China for  on- and off-highway use. We want to provide our customers with a range of products to  help them succeed in their businesses and  meet their own sustainability goals (page 26).
 »DELIVERING SUPERIOR RESULTS:  
Our Company was in the news earlier this  
year when the Cummins-Peterbilt “SuperTruck” achieved 10.7 miles per gallon under real world driving conditions, and significantly exceeded 
the Department of Energy’s goal for freight 
efficiency (page 64). The concept tractor-trailer demonstrated what’s possible to customers, regulators and the transportation industry as participating companies now work to 
commercialize many of its features.
 »CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY:  
Cummins employees set a new record for reducing greenhouse gas emissions as part of 
the Company’s 2013 Environmental Challenge. 
Community service projects completed as part of the Challenge reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 19,000 tons, more than four times the amount reduced in 2012 (page 70).INTRODUCTION Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  5
 »DIVERSITY: Diversity at Cummins is essential 
to our future and Cummins wants to ensure we have an inclusive work environment that 
welcomes people of both genders and all 
races, ethnicities, sexual orientations and other characteristics. Cummins is disclosing in this year’s report additional information about our 
workforce and our efforts to increase diversity 
and inclusiveness (page 114). We believe a diverse workforce is critical to creating the  right work environment for success.
 »GLOBAL INVOLVEmENT: As Cummins 
inaugurated our eighth business at the 
Company’s Megasite in Phaltan, India, Cummins’ Model Village initiative in nearby Nandal (page 92) continued to demonstrate 
our commitment to Global Involvement, taking 
a world view and acting without boundaries. Since 2011, Nandal has seen significant improvements in its access to water and  health care as well as improvements in 
sanitation and agriculture. 
I’m proud to say our commitment to these values 
did not waiver despite weak global economic conditions for a second consecutive year.
We take a broad view of sustainability at 
Cummins, maintaining it’s about more than    a Company’s environmental record or the number of community involvement activities it participates in, although those are both important. 
A truly sustainable company has to work to  
keep its most valuable asset, its employees, healthy and safe (page 104). A sustainable company needs outstanding leaders and 
programs to develop those leaders (page 126).  
It must be financially sound (page 138).  And a truly sustainable company is built on  a foundation of good governance (page 128)  to ensure the kind of ethical behavior that’s  
critical to creating not only a great work 
environment but also terrific customer service. 
I’m convinced we have all of those  
pieces in place at Cummins and it’s one  
of the reasons I’m so optimistic about the  
future. But sustainability can slip away the  moment you let yourself become complacent.  That’s why I’m pushing hard for our Company  to be a leader in all of these areas.
Thank you for your interest in Cummins.
Tom Linebarger 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Cummins Inc.
Linebarger has been working at Cummins  
for more than 20 years. Here’s a quick look  
at his career at the Company.
CHAIRmAN AND CHIEf ExECUTIVE OffICER  
Jan. 1, 2012, to present
PRESIDENT AND CHIEf OPERATING OffICER 
2008-2011
ExECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT , PRESIDENT –  
POwER GENERATION BUSINESS  
2005-2008
VICE PRESIDENT – POwER GENERATION 
2003-2005
VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEf fINANCIAL OffICER 
2000-2003
VICE PRESIDENT – SUPPLY CHAIN mANAGEmENT 
1998-2000
mANAGING DIRECTOR –  
HOLSET ENGINEERING COmPANY  
(a division of Cummins), 1997-1998
SENIOR mANAGER – ENGINEERING OPERATIONS  
AND TECHNICAL CENTER LEADER, HOLSET  
1996-1997
ENGINE COmPANY ASSISTANT TO GROUP  
VICE PRESIDENT fOR wORLDwIDE OPERATIONS,  
PROGRAm mANAGER – ADVANCED fUEL SYSTEmS  
1994-1996
INTERNSHIP – ASSISTANT TO PLANT mANAGER,  
Columbus MidRange Engine Plant, 1992Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  6
This map includes Cummins plants,  
offices and distributors.CUmmINS  
AROUND  THE wORLD
Cummins is a global  
company. Here’s a look  
at some of what was  
happening at the Company around the world  
in 2013-2014.
Both MAN and Ford exhibited trucks powered 
by Cummins engines at Fenetran, the most 
important showcase for the on-highway sector 
of freight transportation and commercial vehicles in South America. The show started Oct. 28, 2013, in São Paulo. 
BRAzIL
Cummins Turbo Technologies in Huddersfield 
completed a geothermal energy project in 
2013, cutting its electricity consumption  
and reducing its reliance on the national grid. The system harvests absorbed solar heat stored in the outermost layer of the earth.UNITED kINGDOm
Lisle, Illinois – Navistar International 
Corporation announced on Sept. 3, 2013, 
that it was expanding its medium-duty engine 
offerings to include the Cummins ISB 6.7-liter engine for trucks and school buses. Production for trucks started in 2013 while production for 
school buses was scheduled in 2014.
UNITED STATES
Columbus, Indiana – Cummins was named recipient of the 
2013 Newsmaker of the Year award Jan. 9, 2013, from Diesel 
Progress North American magazine. The award honors the 
company that made the most news in the heavy-duty industrial engine and equipment markets during the calendar year.
UNITED STATES
Cummins ISZ13 diesel engines were installed in trucks driven 
by team Ginaf Rally Power for the Dakar rally, Jan. 5 – Jan. 
18, 2014, across Argentina, Chile and Bolivia. The Company 
started a three-year project with the team to develop a new rally truck platform that is lighter and more maneuverable.
ARGENTINA
Cummins Filtration at San Luis Potosí, Mexico, 
received Clean Industry certification Aug. 30, 2013, 
from the Federal Environmental Protection Agency 
(PROFEPA). The certification was presented at a formal event held at Cummins Filtration.mExICOAUSTRALIA
BRAzIL
INDIA
mExICO
UNITED STATES
Cummins Filtration Australia held a launching 
ceremony in December, 2013, to mark the 
production of two different NanoForce air filters 
at the business unit’s Melbourne, Victoria plant. The Nanofiber air filters offer a longer life and lower operating costs.AUSTRALIA
Cummins officials announced in October of 
2013 that the latest ISB6.7 engines will be 
supplied to Scania for use in its Euro 6 buses. 
The October 2013 announcement came at Busworld in Kortrijk, Belgium, the largest bus and coach exhibition in Europe. Euro 6 is the 
latest European emissions standards.BELGIUm
Cummins announced in September, 2013,  
that it will begin producing a new global  
heavy-duty engine platform in China that  
will meet a variety of on-highway and  off-highway needs. The platform will initially  
be manufactured at the Beijing Foton  
Cummins Engine Company in 2014.CHINA
Cummins opened its fifth, sixth and seventh plants at 
the Megasite in Phaltan, India, in 2013, and another 
plant in early 2014. The Megasite is a 300-acre facility 
expected to be home to 10 Cummins facilities.
INDIA
Cummins’ new Middle East Area Business 
Organization became effective in January  
of 2014, providing the structure needed  
to expand and grow in this key market.  The new organization will be structured  to foster better alignment between the  
various business units at Cummins. 
DUBAICummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  8
wHO wE ARE
Cummins Inc., a global power leader, is a corporation of complementary 
business units that design, manufacture, distribute and service engines and 
related technologies, including fuel systems, controls, air handling, filtration, 
emission solutions and electrical power generation systems.
fOUNDED IN 1919  
wEB SITE 
www.cummins.comwORLD HEADqUARTERS
500 Jackson Street 
Columbus, IN, 47201
EmPLOYEES
Worldwide, approximately  
48,000 people. 
More than 60 percent of the Company’s employees are  located outside the United States.CUSTOmERSThe Company’s customers are located in approximately 
190 countries  and 
territories that Cummins reaches through a network of more than 
600  Company-owned 
and independent distributor locations and approximately 
6,500 dealer locations.STOCk SYmBOL (traded on NYSE) 
CmI
SALES / EARNINGS
 
 fORTUNE 500 RANkING 
(2014)
 168
In 2013, Cummins earned  
$1.48 billion on revenues of
$17.3 billion.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  9
HOw wE DO IT
Cummins is organized into four business units:
CUmmINS ENGINE BUSINESS   
The Engine Business manufactures and markets  
a complete line of diesel and natural gas-powered engines for on-highway and off-highway  
use. Markets include heavy-  
and medium-duty trucks,  buses, light-duty trucks  and industrial uses such  
as agricultural, construction, 
mining, marine, oil and gas  and military equipment.
COmPONENTS BUSINESS 
Cummins Emission Solutions designs  and manufactures exhaust aftertreatment  technology and solutions for the medium- and  
heavy-duty, and high-horsepower engine markets.
Cummins filtration designs and builds heavy-duty  
air, fuel, hydraulic and lube filtration, chemicals and  exhaust system technology products.
Cummins fuel Systems manufactures new fuel systems.
Cummins Turbo Technologies designs and  
builds turbochargers to boost engine power  and related products.
CUmmINS DISTRIBUTION BUSINESS   
Cummins Distribution sells and services  the full range of Cummins products for  over 20 application segments in over  
190 countries around the globe. CUmmINS POwER GENERATION BUSINESS   
Power Gen is a global provider of power  
generation systems, components and services  in standby power, distributed power generation,  
as well as auxiliary power in mobile applications.  
It also provides a full range of services including    long-term operation  
   and maintenance 
    contracts and turnkey  
     and temporary  
      power solutions.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  10
Cummins has a rich history, replete with 
examples of innovation, entrepreneurship 
and vision, mixed with just a little bit of  
drama at some key moments. 
Here’s a look at some highlights  
over the last 95 years:
OUR HISTORYJ. Irwin Miller, great-nephew  
of W.G. Irwin, becomes  general manager of  Cummins at the age of 24.1934Cummins earns its first profit.1937
Clessie Cummins creates the Cummins Engine Company  based in Columbus, Indiana.  William G. Irwin, who employed Cummins as a driver, supplies nearly all of the $50,000  in startup capital.
1919
Cummins barnstorms across the  country, demonstrating the power  and fuel efficiency of the diesel engine in his Coast to Coast Cummins Diesel Test Bus.
1932Miller is commissioned as a lieutenant in the Navy Air Corps, where he served aboard the carrier Langley during World War II. He saw action in the Marshall Islands and New Guinea.
1942Miller becomes Chairman  of the Cummins Board.
1951Cummins takes Irwin for a ride in a used Packard limousine that he equipped with a diesel engine on Christmas Day, convincing Irwin of the engine’s potential. Irwin invests a much needed infusion of cash.
1929Clessie Cummins leaves Cummins and moves to California where he continues inventing until his death in 1968.1945Miller becomes Executive  Vice President of Cummins.1944
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  11
Miller retires as Chairman of the Board,  
although he remains active with the  
Company until his death in 2004.
1977Cummins acquires Holset, a British turbocharger manufacturer. Turbochargers today play a key role  in a number of engine functions.1973
Miller helps Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. with some of the organizing behind the 1963 March on Washington.  Miller was acting as leader of the National Council of Churches.1963
Cummins establishes its Mission and Values around its Vision of “Making people’s lives better by unleashing the Power of Cummins.”2000
Cummins enters China as part of a deal involving heavy construction equipment with Cummins engines.1975Cummins begins operations in India,  first as a joint venture with one plant in Pune. Today, the Company owns all or part of  20 manufacturing facilities in the country  and employs nearly 14,000 people.1962
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso retires after more than 40 years with the Company including more than 10 years as CEO. The Company experienced record growth under his leadership.
2011
President and Chief Operating Officer Tom Linebarger takes over as the Company’s Chairman and CEO on Jan. 1, 2012.2012
Cummins purchases 86 percent of the Onan Corporation in suburban Minneapolis, which would become the basis for its Power Generation Business.
1986
Miller lays out his thinking on Corporate Responsibility in Cummins’ 1972 Annual Report. “While some still argue that business has no social responsibility, we believe that our survival in the very long run is as dependent upon responsible citizenship in our communities and in the society as it is  on responsible technological, financial and production performance.”
1972
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  12
 12  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  Cummins Inc.OUR V ALUES
INTEGRITY // Strive to do what is right and what we say we will do.
INNOVATION // Apply the creative ingenuity necessary to make us better, faster, first.
DELIVER SUPERIOR RESULTS // Exceed expectations consistently.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY // Serve and improve the communities in which we live.
DIVERSITY // Embrace the diverse perspectives of all people and honor both with dignity and respect.
GLOBAL INVOLVEmENT // Seek a world view and act without boundaries.
OUR STRATEGIC PRINCIPLES
Leverage Complementary Businesses // Cummins is a family of complementary businesses that create  
value for our customers by leveraging relationships and applying innovative technology across business boundaries.
Increase Shareholder Value // Cummins’ financial success is measured by growth in shareholder  
value. We will focus on ROE / ROANA and Earnings Growth (not Revenue Growth) as the principal  
drivers of shareholder value.
Seek Profitable Growth // Cummins will seek profitable growth by leveraging our assets and capabilities to 
grow in market segments with favorable industry dynamics and where Cummins can establish an advantage.
Relentlessly Pursue Cost Leadership // Cummins will pursue an operational strategy of cost leadership.
Lead in Critical Technologies // Cummins will be the market leader in technologies most critical to our 
customers’ success and our Company’s performance.
Create the Right w ork Environment // Cummins will assure that the physical and cultural work  
environment is conducive to excellent performance and continuous improvement.OUR mISSION 
we unleash the Power  
of Cummins by:
 »Motivating people to act  
like owners, working together.
 »Exceeding customer expectations  
by always being the first to market  
with the best products.
 »Partnering with our customers  to make sure they succeed.
 »Demanding that everything we  
do leads to a cleaner, healthier,  
safer environment.
 »Creating wealth for all stakeholders.
OUR PERSONALITY
Decisive. Driven to win.  
Agile. Passionate. Caring.OUR VISION 
Making people’s lives better by unleashing the Power of Cummins.VISION, mISSION, VALUES AND PRINCIPLESCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  13
Cummins is a big proponent of Six Sigma, using 
the business improvement tool to save the Company and its customers billions of dollars.
Since it was initiated at the Company in  
2000, Six Sigma has provided a common process and language for Cummins employees to solve problems and develop new products  
and processes.
Six Sigma uses data-based analysis to identify 
defects and variation in a wide range of manufacturing and business situations.
Here’s a quick look at what Six Sigma has  
meant to Cummins:
 »As of the end of 2013, approximately  
15,000 people have been trained how to use Six Sigma tools at the Company since the 
process was introduced at Cummins in 2000.
 »An estimated $5.19 billion in savings have 
been identified at the Company through   Six Sigma since it was started at Cummins 14 years ago.
 »An estimated $919 million has been  saved by Cummins customers using  Six Sigma since 2005.
The Company also uses Six Sigma in its 
community involvement work, helping its 
community partners improve their efficiency  and address major problems. In 2013, Cummins employees completed 156 Community Impact Six Sigma Projects, up from 106 in 2012.
The Cummins Business Model is a simplified view 
of how the Company is organized that starts and 
ends with customers and the business. 
The business model was updated in 2013 to 
more accurately reflect how Cummins delivers products and services to our customers around the world through an integrated supply chain. 
The new model more clearly represents how  
we work together to meet or exceed  customer expectations. The Cummins Operating System helps develop common practices and approaches to improve customer satisfaction. The 10 practices are:
01 Put the customer first and provide real value.
02 Synchronize flows  
(material, physical and information).
03 Design quality in every step of the process.
04 Involve people and promote team work.
05 Ensure equipment and tools  are available and capable.
06 Create functional excellence.
07 Establish the right environment.
08 Treat preferred suppliers as partners. 
09 Follow common problem-solving techniques.
10 Use Six Sigma as the primary process improvement method. SIx SIGmA
 CUmmINS BUSINESS mODEL CUmmINS OPERATING SYSTEmOUR kEY TOOLS
Cummins is a company with operations across the globe. To help ensure 
Cummins operates smoothly, the Company relies on three primary tools:Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  14
OUR RECOGNITION
Cummins received recognition in several areas that touch on sustainability.
Cummins was named one of the  
wORLD’S mOST ETHICAL COmPANIES 
by the Ethisphere Institute in 2014. The institute 
evaluates companies’ commitment to ethical leadership, compliance practices and corporate 
responsibility. This was the seventh consecutive 
year Cummins was named to the list.
Cummins China was recognized as a  
LEADING ENTERPRISE IN CORPORATE 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY in 2013 for its work in 2012 by the prestigious GoldenBee Corporate 
Social Responsibility China Honor Roll. The honor 
roll was launched by a Chinese magazine and the country’s Ministry of Commerce to promote 
corporate social responsibility in the country. Cummins India was honored in 2013 with the 
prestigious B.G. DESHmUkH Aw ARD for 
outstanding work in the field of Corporate Social 
Responsibility. It’s the second time since the 
award was created six years ago that Cummins India was honored. The award is given by the 
Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries  
and Agriculture (MCCIA), for significant efforts  in improving communities.
Cummins Power Generation in  
Fridley, Minnesota was awarded the  2013 mINNESOTA EmPLOYEE 
ENGAGEmENT Aw ARD for its work with 
people who have disabilities. Employees  
adapt toys and electronic devices at a  
center that serves people with disabilities.Cummins in 2014 was named to Fortune 
Magazine’s list of the wORLD’S mOST ADmIRED COmPANIES fOR THE 
CONSTRUCTION AND fARm  
mACHINERY SECTOR. The magazine  calls its list “the definitive report card” on 
corporate reputations. The magazine’s survey 
partner reviews some 1,400 companies. Cummins did not make Fortune’s top 50 list. 
Cummins was named to the DOw JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEx in 2013 for a ninth consecutive year. The index represents the 
top 10 percent of the world’s most sustainable 
companies as ranked by Dow Jones over a range of economic, environmental and social 
responsibility factors.Tata Cummins Limited – Jamshedpur was named 
a silver award winner for the automotive sector at the 14
TH ANNUAL GREENTECH Aw ARDS 
in 2013. The Greentech Awards recognize “the 
highest level of commitment” to Environmental 
Management and Corporate Responsibility.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY / ETHICS
ENVIRONmENT
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  15
Cummins was named 2013 NEwSmAkER Of 
THE YEAR by Diesel Progress North American 
magazine. The award, first given in 1997, honors 
the company, person, product, technology or industry trend that made the most news in the 
heavy-duty industrial engine and equipment 
markets during the calendar year. This is the third time that Cummins has been given this honor.
Cummins received first place in Institutional 
Investors’ 2014 ALL AmERICAN  ExECUTIVE TEAm rankings. The rankings  
are based on a survey of portfolio managers 
and sell-side analysts who are asked to name the best CEOs, CFOs and investor relations 
professionals at the U.S. companies they cover.Cummins Australia received PowerTorque 
magazine’s 2013 TECHNOLOGY AND 
INNOVATION Aw ARD for its work in heavy-
duty truck engine development. PowerTorque  
is a leading Australian trucking publication.  
It said Cummins received the award for the 
ISXe5, which was added to the heavy-duty engine lineup in the South Pacific.
Cummins was ranked at the top of the  
Motley Fool website’s 2013 list of the  25 BEST COmPANIES IN AmERICA.  
The website evaluated companies for their 
success in “serving investors, customers, employees and the world at large.”fINANCIAL / PRODUCTS
wORkPLACE / DIVERSITY Cummins was awarded a perfect  
score for the ninth consecutive year in the  
2014 CORPORATE EqUALITY INDEx  
by the Human Rights Campaign, the largest  U.S. civil rights organization for lesbian, gay, 
bisexual and transgender employees.  
The Company was recognized for offering equivalency in spouse and partner benefits, 
health coverage for transgender individuals  
and more.Cummins was named one of the  TOP 50 COmPANIES fOR DIVERSITY  
by DiversityInc magazine for an eighth 
consecutive year in 2014. Cummins ranked  15th on the magazine’s list for a second  
year in a row.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  16
In areas where Cummins has the most influence, 
such as the Company’s plants and internal supply chain, the plan calls for immediate action. 
It establishes specific, measurable goals by  
2020 for the Company to reduce the water  and energy it uses and the waste it disposes.
In other areas, such as the Company’s products 
in use – the overwhelming majority of Cummins’ 
environmental footprint – the plan commits the Company to working collaboratively with a  variety of stakeholders to make a positive environmental impact while delivering  
economic value to its customers.
Cummins has been working hard to reduce 
its environmental footprint for years, with a SUSTAINABLE fUTURE
SUSTAINABLE fUTURE
Cummins Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger talks about the expanded plan before students at Purdue University in  
West Lafayette, Indiana. Seated on the first row, far right, is university President Mitch Daniels, the former governor of Indiana.
INTEGRITY
Strive to do what is right and  
do what we say we will do.SUSTAINABILITY PLAN  
NExT STEP IN CUmmINS’  ENVIRONmENTAL JOURNEY
After nearly two years of study, Cummins has adopted a 
comprehensive plan to reduce the Company’s environmental 
footprint, addressing everything from its manufacturing 
operations to Cummins’ engines and generators in use.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  17
RUSSIA
Since 2013
CHINASince 2013
AUSTRALIASince 2010INDIAStarting 2014WESTERNEUROPESince 2006
BRAZILSince 2012MEXICOSince 2012NORTH AMERICASince 2007KOREASince 2011JAPANSince 2009
Developing Standards Leading Standards special focus over the last decade on waste, 
water and energy. The Company produces the cleanest engines and generators in the industry 
and has been engaged with communities on 
environmental issues through programs like  the Environmental Challenge (page 73).
But this is the most comprehensive plan the 
Company has put together and it comes as many 
consumers at the click of a computer mouse can get goods delivered to their door overnight, if not in a matter of hours. Cummins powers the trucks, trains and other forms of transportation 
that help make those deliveries possible. In some 
cases, the Company’s generators even power the factories producing the goods. 
Cummins, however, recognizes that in the midst 
of these amazing times there is growing concern about the air, water and land all of us depend on. 
The Company wanted a plan to help guide it as Cummins delivers the power our customers need 
in an increasingly interconnected world in a way 
that protects the natural resources we all share. 
“With millions of engines and generators in 
service, and customers in 190 countries and 
territories, there’s no question in my mind that 
Cummins has the global reach to make a positive impact on the environment,” said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tom Linebarger.
“Many of our employees are already doing  
this through the products they design and  
the processes they follow,” he added.  “This is just the next step in fulfilling our  vision of making people’s lives better by 
unleashing the power of Cummins.”OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY
Cummins has long embraced “green” practices 
like its remanufacturing operations, which today 
keep some 50 million pounds of Cummins 
product in use and out of landfills annually.
But as recently as the 1990s, the Company 
shared the industry held belief that newly 
proposed clean air regulations in the United 
States would be impossible to meet.
Cummins leaders concluded, however,  
that their opposition was inconsistent  with the Company’s long-held values.  
They began to see Cummins’ technical  
expertise as a key competitive advantage  to meet increasingly stringent regulations.
 This map shows the countries and regions 
that have required exhaust aftertreatment and those that will be requiring it in the years to come.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  18
As more countries established air pollution 
standards, customers wanted the environmental attributes Cummins products delivered with  
the power and reliability they offered to help  
them compete and win.
Today, Cummins spends more than  
$500 million annually to develop the technology 
necessary to reduce emissions and improve 
fuel efficiency. The Company also works with governments around the world to establish responsible regulations.
Most recently, Cummins helped to develop  
the first greenhouse gas (GHG) emission 
regulations for commercial trucks in the United States and was the first company to have an engine certified to meet those regulations,  
which went into effect in 2014.
The Company created the Action Committee for 
Environmental Sustainability (ACES) in 2012 to study Cummins’ environmental footprint, working with a private consultant and the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology to determine where  
the Company could make the biggest positive environmental impact. Then, ACES put together the plan.
“We know our best sustainability initiatives  
come when our vision, mission and values  align with our business strategy to deliver  value to our customers,” Linebarger said. PRODUCT DESIGN
About 70 percent of a product’s environmental 
footprint is locked in at the design stage, 
according to the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency. The Company’s sustainability plan establishes designing for innovation as a key goal, with a focus on the efficient use of fuel  
and raw materials. 
The Company can build on many successes. 
In February, the President of the United States praised the concept “SuperTruck” developed by Cummins and the Peterbilt Motors Company, 
which during testing under real world conditions 
achieved a 75 percent increase in fuel efficiency compared to a typical truck on the road today (page 64).
The tractor-trailer includes a high tech  
engine with a waste-heat recovery system,  an aerodynamic exterior and other energy  saving features that the participating  companies will now work to commercialize. 
Cummins’ new G Series engine (page 27) 
is another example of a sustainable product design. A key focus for the heavy-duty engine 
platform has been achieving significant weight 
reductions. A sculpted block retains high rigidity while removing unnecessary mass. The use of 
composite material for the oil pan and valve  
cover provides further weight reductions. The work behind the new Cummins Connect Series of generators is another example of greater design efficiency and ultimately sustainability. 
Technical advances in engine speeds combined with the 
use of turbochargers and other developments enabled engineers to use the same basic engine platform to design 12 different variations of the standby generators, 
producing from 20 kilowatts (kW) to 60 kW of power.
Engineers were able to use the Company’s Acoustical 
Testing Center in Fridley, Minnesota (page 38), to test  many different combinations to ensure the generators, which run on natural gas or propane, meet customer 
demands for quiet operation. When the diesel version  
is complete, the number of potential part numbers  for the series will have been reduced from around  4,300 to just 1,300, lowering production costs and 
improving ease of maintenance.
The combination of the higher engine speed and design 
changes also allowed the team to reduce the weight significantly – a more than 1,000 pound reduction for  the Connect Series’ largest unit compared to similarly 
sized generators. While weight isn’t a big factor in 
generator sales, it does mean less material, water  and energy is used in processing.mAkING THE CONNECTIONCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  19
Cummins is poised for more innovation. 
The Company’s new technical center under construction in India, for example, will be the  
first at Cummins designed from the ground up  
to handle alternative fuels (page 24). It will also  be the first tech center to make significant use  of virtual reality.
PRODUCTS IN USE
Cummins’ biggest challenge will be to make  
a positive environmental impact when its products are in the hands of its customers.
The Company’s independent analysis estimates 
that more than 95 percent of Cummins’ total environmental footprint comes when its products 
are hauling freight, moving dirt, powering buildings, or in some way in use.
The good news is there may never have been  
a better time for the Company to engage with  its customers to make a positive difference on  the environment. With diesel emissions at near 
zero levels for particulate pollutants, attention  
is increasingly focused on fuel efficiency.
Cummins’ customers can see bottom-line 
benefits in the push for fuel efficiency. A five percent increase in fuel economy equals a five  
percent reduction in fuel costs and a roughly  
five percent drop in GHG emissions.For nearly 10 years, Cummins has used Six Sigma, the business problem-solving tool, to help 
customers operate their Cummins equipment 
more efficiently, saving them more than $1 billion since 2005. About 90 million gallons of fuel has been saved and more than one million tons of carbon dioxide (CO
2) has been avoided.
Now, the Company is expanding its efforts, working with other companies to help customers 
realize millions in savings through greater fuel 
efficiency (page 22). 
RAw mATERIALS AND PROCESSING
Another area that holds tremendous potential 
for Cummins to work collaboratively is in raw 
materials and processing.
Like many companies today, Cummins 
increasingly relies on independent suppliers to provide it with the metals, other raw materials 
and some parts the Company needs.
The parts and processes connected with 
Cummins’ external supply chain require significant amounts of energy, water and raw materials.
President Barack Obama praises the Cummins-Peterbilt 
“SuperTruck” while calling for the next phase of national fuel efficiency and greenhouse gas emission standards for heavy-duty commerical vehicles. Cummins’ environmental 
sustainability plan calls for the Company to continue to 
design for innovation.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  20
For example, 88 percent of the Company’s  
water footprint can be linked to the extraction and processing of raw materials, according  
to the independent analysis of Cummins’ 
environmental footprint.
The plan calls for Cummins to work with its 
supply chain to reduce the Company’s use  
of raw materials and packaging, and to share 
best-practice tools to help suppliers reduce  their footprint, which in turn helps Cummins reduce its footprint.
The plan also calls for collaboration between 
Cummins engineers, manufacturing leaders, 
material scientists, outside experts and suppliers to use advanced manufacturing processes that require less energy, water, and other natural 
resources or result in products that are easier  
to recycle and reuse.
INTERNAL OPERATIONS
Cummins is establishing its most specific goals  
in those areas where it has the most influence 
and experience – its internal operations.The Company has a large and sophisticated 
supply chain. Through an improved transportation system, Cummins is determined to reduce the 
total miles traveled to move shipments  
across the Company.
Cummins is publicly releasing its goals  
and will report on the Company’s progress in  
future Sustainability Reports. (To see how the  
Company did in all of these areas in 2013,  go to the Practices section on page 40).
Here are the goals:ENERGY AND GHG: The sustainability plan 
calls for reducing energy and GHG emissions at 
Cummins by 25 and 27 percent, respectively, compared to a 2005 baseline and adjusted to sales, by 2015. 
The Company voluntarily pledged a 25 
percent GHG emission reduction as part of the Environmental Protection Agency’sClimate Leaders Program in late 2006. 
It achieved a 28 percent reduction, but then 
sold a part of the Company that had eliminated While the term “zero landfill” is widely used to mean no trash reaches a landfill, 
Cummins believes “zero disposal” more accurately describes its goal. 
Under Cummins’ definition of “zero 
disposal,” waste can only be burned 
as a last resort to create energy and 
then only if there is a net energy gain, creating more energy than is needed merely to sustain combustion.zERO DISPOSALa significant amount of GHGs. Cummins is now 
looking for additional savings to meet its goals.
wATER: The plan calls for reducing direct  
water use across the Company by 33 percent  
by 2020, adjusted for hours worked. 
In those areas where water is scarce, the plan 
also calls for achieving “water neutrality” at  
15 manufacturing sites by off-setting water 
use with community improvements that either conserve water or make new water sources available (page 52). 
The plan calls for working with all sites globally 
to share best practices and institute water 
conservation processes. 
wASTE: The plan calls for increasing the 
Company’s recycling rate from 89 percent in 
2013 to 95 percent by 2020, with a special focus 
on Cummins’ 40 highest waste disposing sites. 
In addition, it calls for reaching “zero disposal” status at 30 sites by 2020 where 100 percent of 
waste will be recycled in a useful manner.
While the Company’s 89 percent recycling 
rate compares favorably to many companies, 
recycling that last 11 percent will mean  Cummins’ zero disposal sites must deal  with many hard-to-recycle items (page 50).
A CALL fOR ACTION
ACES leaders say the new goals are  
only the beginning. They may add  additional specific goals over time.
“It will take a huge effort involving all of  
our employees’ skills and passion,” said  
Karen Cecil, Cummins’ Director – Global  Environmental Sustainability. “It will mean  working not just with our customers and 
suppliers, but with many external stakeholders, 
including our communities. It’s something  we’ll always be working on as the world  changes and new challenges arise.”CUmmINS’ kEY GOALS
ENERGY  
AND GHGS
 »Reduce energy use and greenhouse gas 
emissions by 25 percent and 27 percent, respectively, compared to a 2005 baseline and adjusted to sales, by 2015.
wATER
 »Reduce direct water use across  Cummins by 33 percent by 2020,  adjusted by hours worked. 
 »Achieve “water neutrality” at  15 Cummins manufacturing sites  where water is in short supply,  also by 2020.
wASTE
 »Increase recycling rate from 89 percent  in 2013 to 95 percent by 2020.
 »Reach “zero disposal” status at  30 sites by 2020 where 100 percent  of waste is recycled in a useful manner.
BEHIND THE NUmBERS
Environmental results are adjusted for sales  
or hours worked to ensure year-to-year increases or declines aren’t due simply  to changes in business volumes.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  22
CUmmINS TEAmS UP wITH OTHER  
COmPANIES TO DELIVER fOR CUSTOmER
Sometimes a good idea is almost contagious.
When global mining and metals company  
Rio Tinto said it wanted to explore improving  the fuel economy on its fleet of massive mining 
trucks in Australia, engineers at Komatsu, 
General Electric and Cummins had already  been thinking about the same possibility.
But instead of working separately on how they 
could make each of their individual parts of the 
truck more fuel efficient in use, the companies put competitive pressures aside and worked  as a team. The team figured out a way to cut  fuel use by 4 to 6 percent through adjustments  
to the engine, drive train and the integration of 
those systems in the truck.
While that might not sound like a tremendous 
amount on a percentage basis, each truck in  
Rio Tinto’s fleet is about the size of a two-story 
house and uses a tremendous amount of fuel. Some were more than five years old.
A 4 percent reduction translates into a potential 
savings of over $14 million annually for Rio Tinto’s  
 fleet of about 280 mining trucks primarily at  the company’s mine in Hunter Valley, Australia.  And that translates into a savings of about 
27,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO
2)  
per year. “The team has worked tremendously  
well together,” said Justin Blomenberg,  Chief Engineer – Application Engineering for the  High Horsepower Engine Business at Cummins. 
“We worked with incredible transparency.  
This kind of approach doesn’t happen very  often for products that are in use, but I think there’s a huge potential for it.”A crew stands in front of one of Rio Tinto’s huge mining trucks.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  23
Manufacturers have been working with  
their direct customers for many years to  help them use the equipment they purchase 
more efficiently and effectively. Cummins, for 
example, has helped its customers save about $900 million on their operations since 2004 using the business problem-solving tool Six Sigma.  
The projects saved about 90 million gallons  
of fuel and avoided more than 1 million tons  of CO
2 emissions.
But the team approach used with Rio Tinto  is unusual to improve in-service operations  
after purchase, and a first on this scale for 
Cummins in its High Horsepower business.
“Helping our customers meet their own 
sustainability goals can not only help them 
save money, it has the potential for tremendous 
environmental benefits as well,” said Dave Lauzun, Cummins’ Executive Director – Customer Engineering.Cummins was interested in testing this approach in its High Horsepower business because of the potential impact. While those engines account 
for only about 2 percent of the total number of 
Cummins engines in the world today, they use an estimated 20 percent of the total diesel fuel consumed by Cummins-powered equipment.
The engineering team nicknamed the project 
“Dhanna Yurabaya,” which means to “Stand Strong” in one of the native Wiri languages spoken in the region where the mine is located. 
Each company played a key role in the 
collaboration, including Rio Tinto, which actively 
participated in goal setting as well as testing the proposed innovations.
Komatsu, the world’s second largest construction 
and mining equipment company, which includes 
the sales of mining trucks capable of hauling    payloads of 360 tons, focused on the big picture including systems integration.
General Electric, a global technology leader and 
supplier to the railroad, mining, marine industries and more, was in charge of the electric drive 
system controls, affecting the entire drive line, 
from engine to wheel motors. 
Cummins, a global power leader, worked on the 
engine – a QSK60, one of the larger engines in 
the Company’s product line.
Team members from Cummins worked 
specifically on the calibration of the engine, tuning 
the calibration’s governor settings to work in synch with the GE drive system controls so the engine could operate at lower speeds. Cummins 
also targeted a one percent increase in fuel 
efficiency through advances in combustion. 
A mining truck doesn’t have to go fast, but it 
does have go from periods when it’s not moving to times when it is pulling a tremendous amount 
of weight safely through the mine, including up 
steep grades under full loads and sometimes turning 180-degree corners.
Cummins is now planning a similar project with  
at least two other High Horsepower customers.One of Rio Tinto’s mining trucks in action.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  24
TECH CENTER IN INDIA TO INTRODUCE  
NEw REALITY AT CUmmINS
A typical day at the new Cummins Technical Center India (CTCI) might start 
with a wave to a colleague from a different department and a stroll to your 
work station through the futuristic glass and steel building, awash with natural 
light. Then, it’s off to the virtual reality lab to strap on some goggles to see how 
that emission control system fits on the new engine you have been vetting.
Almost everything at what will be Cummins’ 
largest and most sophisticated technical center when it becomes operational by the end of 2015 
is designed to encourage collaboration, bringing 
together nearly every Cummins engineer in Pune at one location, more than 2,000 engineers in all. “I am very excited about the work our talented employees will do at Cummins Technical Center India,” Cummins Vice President Dr. 
John Wall, Chief Technical Officer, said at the 
groundbreaking for the center in June, 2013. “This new facility will play a significant role in our commitment to ‘Innovation You Can Depend On,’ by equipping our people with the best tools and technologies so that they can lead and deliver innovative projects for all of our business units 
and our customers globally.”
This artist rendering shows the futuristic design of the new 
Cummins Technical Center India under construction in Pune.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  25
The new center also represents the next step in 
the Company’s efforts to be as environmentally friendly as possible in the way it tests its 
products. Cummins has been a leader in analysis 
led design, which uses computers to test ideas before going to the expense of using a prototype in a test cell. That typically uses a significant 
amount of fuel and creates emissions. Virtual reality will give Cummins engineers one more tool to test ideas before trying them out 
using a prototype in a test cell. The new center in India will be the first Cummins technical center equipped with virtual reality. The new center is also 
being built with the infrastructure to test the use 
of different kinds of fuels with Cummins products, another potential plus for the environment.
The Company currently has 30 technical centers around the world, including centers in Brazil, 
China, France, India, Poland, the United Kingdom 
and Japan. Some of Cummins’ technical centers are tied to one of the Company’s product divisions such as the Engine Business, Power 
Generation, Emission Solutions or Filtration. Others work with every business unit.
Dr. Karen Ramsey-Idem, Cummins’ Director 
– Global Technical Resource Planning, says 
an innovative idea can come from anywhere 
– a plant, a customer, a technical center or 
somewhere else. She sees the technical centers’ primary role as vetting innovative ideas to determine which ones will work best.
One of the things Ramsey-Idem is most  
excited about is that the new CTCI will bring together hundreds of engineers who had been previously spread over three campuses in  Pune, separated by as much as two hours  
given the city’s traffic challenges.  She envisions informal discussions taking place in the common spaces throughout the new tech 
center as well as its expansive canteen.
Cummins is the only Company that  
produces all of the critical subsystems  
required to build an engine or genset in-house.  
Getting engineers together from various product areas enables Cummins to take full advantage of that critical difference with its competitors.
It also opens up the possibility of bundling testing 
to take the fullest advantage of work in a test cell. 
For example, if an engine is being put through its paces, it might be possible to test a component at the same time, saving time and fuel compared 
to testing those items separately.
Hélène L. Cornils, Director – Technical  
Operations Excellence for Components Engineering, is working on a computer  program to support testing at the Company.  
It includes a feature showing an engineer what 
testing is going on at any of the Company’s  227 test cells around the world so they can explore the possibility of joining a colleague’s test.
“There’s the potential to create significant 
efficiencies that would be good for business  and good for the environment, too,” Cornils said.
TOP  The new tech center in India under construction.
BOTTOm  Cummins Vice President Dr. John Wall (left), Chief 
Technical Officer, and Vice President Anant Talaulicar, President 
of Cummins Components Group and Chairman of Cummins 
India Ltd., celebrate the groundbreaking for the new Cummins Technical Center India in 2013.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  26
PRODUCTS
Cummins introduced more than 70 new products 
or product updates around the world in 2013,  
many addressing emissions, fuel efficiency or both. 
The Company is committed to providing  
its customers with products that deliver  the power they need to succeed, using  
the most appropriate emissions control for  
their particular location and circumstances.
Cummins is the only independent manufacturer 
with the in-house capability to produce all of the 
critical subsystems required to build an engine 
or generator. That gives the Company a distinct advantage when it comes to designing and building the cleanest, most fuel efficient engines and generators in the world.
Meeting emissions regulations in almost every 
country across the globe has been a critical element in Cummins’ success. The Company believes its technical expertise gives it a 
competitive edge as governments enact stricter 
regulations to protect the air, land and water.
Cummins, however, also recognizes that its 
products, above all else, must deliver real economic benefits to the Company’s customers. That includes not only the performance customers have come to rely upon, but reliability, 
durability, and low cost of ownership, too. 
Here’s a look at the major environmental 
sustainability developments in the Company’s  key business segments over the past year  
that are helping Cummins’ customers meet  
their own sustainability goals.
ENGINE 
BUSINESS
Since engines started being regulated by  
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in the 1970s, emissions have been reduced 
dramatically. On-highway diesel engines,  
for example, emit 90 percent less particulate matter (PM) and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) today compared to just a little over a decade ago, 
reaching near-zero levels.Significant advances in fuel economy,  
meanwhile, have greatly reduced the output  of carbon dioxide (CO
2), a key contributor to 
global warming.
Cummins has been a pioneer in clean diesel 
technology, producing advances in combustion, 
electronic controls, fuel systems, filtration, air handling and exhaust aftertreatment to reduce emissions and improve fuel economy. 
The Company also worked to improve 
combustion to help the fuel efficiency of its engines and capture more of the power they generate. And Cummins has been a leader in the development of engines that run on biodiesel, 
natural gas and other alternative fuels.
Some of the most significant environmental 
developments in the Engine Business over  the past year included: 
 
 ENVIRONmENT // PRODUCTS
ENVIRONmENTINNOVATION
Apply the creative ingenuity necessary  
to make us better, faster, first.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  27
HEAVY-DUTY AND  
mEDIUm-DUTY ENGINES
G Series
wHAT’S NEw :  
Cummins in 2014 launched the  G Series platform, a new global  
Heavy-Duty engine now in production  
in China to meet a broad variety of  on-highway and off-highway needs. 
SPECIAL fEATURES: Design and 
development of the in-line, six-cylinder 
engine was led by a team in the United States, supported by global technical and marketing resources with deep knowledge  of local market and customer needs.
A key design focus for the G series, 
available in 10.5- and 11.8-liter displacements, has been on achieving  significant weight reductions to increase  the engine’s power-to-weight ratio.
A sculpted block retains high rigidity while 
removing unnecessary mass. The use of 
composite material for the oil pan and  
valve cover provides further weight savings.  The G Series achieves a low engine weight  of just 1,900 pounds (862 kilograms) while 
retaining the structural strength and durability 
expected of a Cummins Heavy-Duty engine.
qUOTABLE: “This engine platform has been 
designed for diverse and global markets by utilizing the expertise and local knowledge of  
our engineers from around the world,” said  
Steve Chapman, Cummins’ Group Vice  President – China and Russia.
QSG12
wHAT’S NEw :  
In 2013 and 2014, Cummins introduced to the North American construction and 
agricultural markets the new QSG12 engine, 
a member of the “G Series family” for Heavy-Duty applications. The 6-cylinder, 12-liter engine meets EPA Tier 4 Final 
regulations, achieving near-zero emissions.
SPECIAL fEATURES: The QSG12 includes 
significant weight savings through the use of such things as composite material. In addition, the engine system integrates Cummins’ Selective 
Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology to reduce 
emissions and allow for improved fuel efficiency.
 
Wang Jinyu, General Manager of the Beiqi Foton Motor Co., Ltd., 
China’s leading commercial vehicle manufacturer, signs an engine at the launch of a new truck model powered by the Cummins ISG engine at the Cummins Technical Center in Columbus, Indiana. The new G 
Series engine is initially being produced at the Beijing Foton Cummins 
Engine Co., a 50-50 joint venture between Cummins and Foton.Cummins is perhaps best known for its engines  
that power tractor-trailers, carrying goods literally around the world. But the Company’s engines 
are in a host of other products for on- and off-
highway use.
The Company announced in March, 2014, that  
there were over 400 machine integration projects 
underway using the latest generation of Cummins 
QSF2.8 to QSX15 engines (49 hp to 675 hp or  37 kW to 503 kW) to achieve near zero emissions  
in bulldozers, cranes, drill rigs, excavators, pavers, road planers and more.
To meet the latest round of regulations for 
off-highway engines in 2014, the Company’s field-test program accumulated over 140,000 hours and included a snow grooming machine 
operating at high altitude in the Alps and a rock 
drill working on a mine site under very dusty, abrasive conditions.ABOUT OUR ENGINESqUOTABLE: “For Tier 4 Final, the QSG12 sets a new benchmark for heavy-duty engines with its ability to outperform any comparable engine, 
yet provides a smaller, lighter and simpler engine 
package to install,” said Hugh Foden, Executive Director – Cummins Off-Highway Business.
Eaton powertrain
wHAT’S NEw :  
In early 2014, Cummins and power management company Eaton announced 
that Eaton’s popular SmartAdvantage 
Powertrain package is being offered in some Cummins ISX12 and ISX15 engine applications to maximize fuel economy.
SPECIAL fEATURES: The powertrain package 
includes power, fuel and shifting strategies to provide an estimated 2 to 4 percent fuel economy improvement for regional haul applications using the ISX12 and 3 to 6 percent on the ISX15. 
NOTABLE: Eaton’s Fuller Advantage Series 
transmissions, introduced in 2013, have  lower overall package weight and improved reliability due to the elimination of the cooler. 
Combined with the use of aluminum for the  
rear transmission housing, and other changes, the new transmission weighs 82 pounds  less than Eaton’s base model. The newest SmartAdvantage powertrain package will  be available in the fall of 2014.
L9.3 engine
wHAT’S NEw :  
In early 2013, the first Cummins  L9.3 engine rolled off the production line 
at the Guangxi Cummins Engine Company 
Limited, the 50-50 joint venture between Cummins and LiuGong Machinery. The engine marked the official start of 
operations in Liuzhou in Southern China. 
LiuGong has been a leader in China’s construction equipment manufacturing industry for more than 50 years.
SPECIAL fEATURES: The L9.3 engine is 
designed and built in China specifically for 
construction equipment. The engine is available in multiple versions to meet various off-road emission standards.
qUOTABLE: “The new engine will complement 
Cummins’ existing product and manufacturing capabilities in China and focus specifically on the mainstream domestic construction markets,” said Dave Crompton, Vice President, Cummins 
Engine Business.
 Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  29
NOTABLE: The components and engine 
features are engineered to deliver high reliability, improved fuel efficiency and performance for  
off-highway customers. Guangxi-Cummins is  
the first Cummins manufacturing facility  in China dedicated to providing power  for the construction machinery market. 
HIGH HORSEPOwER
QSK95
wHAT’S NEw :  
Cummins announced in 2013 that a 
locomotive with the Company’s QSK95 
engine will begin commercial operations  
in 2014 with the Indiana Rail Road  Company (IRR), enabling field test  engineers to study the 95-liter engine  as it powers the locomotive hauling 
industrial freight across IRR’s network. 
Cummins has several potential customers interested in using the largest high speed diesel engine the Company has ever built in their rail operations, including for high 
speed passenger rail.
SPECIAL fEATURES: Cummins will own 
and operate the 4,200 horsepower locomotive powered by the QSK95, nicknamed the 
Hedgehog. Cummins engineers will be able to 
constantly monitor the locomotive’s operations on IRR’s tracks and fine tune the engine remotely to achieve optimal power and fuel efficiency.  The engine is being built at the Seymour Engine 
Plant in Indiana.
qUOTABLE: ”We believe our high speed  
QSK95 will bring not just cleaner operation,  but achieve higher performance and lower  
operating costs than IRR has seen before 
with their traditional medium-speed powered locomotives,” said Ed Pence, Vice President – Cummins High Horsepower Engine Business,  in announcing the arrangement.
 
  NATURAL GAS ENGINES
ISX12 G
wHAT’S NEw :  
The ISX12 G engine went into full production during the summer of 2013, having received 
certification from the EPA earlier that year 
for meeting the agency’s new greenhouse gas and fuel efficiency rules taking effect  in 2014.
SPECIAL fEATURES: The engine is designed 
and marketed by Cummins Westport, a joint venture between Cummins and Westport Innovations of Vancouver, British Columbia. Cummins produces the engines in its Rocky 
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  30
Mount Engine Plant in North Carolina. Cummins 
Westport natural gas engines are available as factory-installed options from more than 50 truck 
and bus manufacturers.
With the start of production of the ISX12 G, 
Cummins Westport now offers engines ranging  in size from 5.9-liters to 12-liters.
QSK50
wHAT’S NEw :  
The Company announced plans to  produce dual fuel engines from 800 hp  
to 3400 hp for high horsepower markets  
in 2012. The QSK50 Tier 2 for oil and gas well servicing applications went into production in mid-2013.
SPECIAL fEATURES: The Cummins Engine 
Business has been producing its own natural gas engines for many years, especially in the Company’s High Horsepower business. These engines are primarily for power generation and 
gas compression customers.
NOTABLE: Natural gas versions of other QSK 
engines including the QSK95 “Hedgehog” are expected to follow in the years to come.
 
  NAturAl GAS uPDA tE 
Cummins has paused work on a 15-liter 
Heavy-Duty natural gas engine for on-highway applications because of uncertainty about the market for long haul trucks using natural gas.
The Company had expected to put its15-liter 
natural gas engine into production by 2016.  
It will monitor market readiness for a larger on-highway natural gas engine and will restart development work as the market evolves.
REmANUf ACTURING
wHAT’S NEw :  
What’s old becomes new again at Cummins 
through the remanufacturing of engines  
and parts, providing customers with a  
high-quality, sustainable option that’s good for the environment and good for their bottom line.
SPECIAL fEATURES: Instead of sending 
tons of metal to landfills and the scrap heap, 
remanufacturing recycles and reuses resources, providing customers with significant savings while greatly reducing the need to mine new materials.
This conserves natural resources and minimizes 
the greenhouse gas emissions associated with excavating, refining and machining materials used for new parts. A Cummins ReCon engine or The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has some  of the strictest emission regulations in the world. 
Cummins’ ISX15 engine was the first engine to receive 
EPA certification for new greenhouse gas and fuel 
efficiency rules for on-highway engines that went into effect in 2014. It received certification a year before the rules became active. The company’s full range of on-
highway engines were certified a few months later.
Meanwhile, Cummins Power Generation’s full range of 
stationary high horsepower diesel generators received EPA Tier 4 Final certification in 2012, more than a year before the requirements went into effect.
The Company’s diesel and natural gas engines met  
Euro 6 emission standards in 2012. The standards  went into effect in January of 2014.mEETING REGULATIONS EARLYCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  31
part requires about 85 percent less energy than 
manufacturing a new engine or part.
Cummins reclaims about 50 million pounds of 
product annually, avoiding 200 million pounds  
of greenhouse gas emissions per year.
NOTABLE: Cummins remanufacturing 
ensures every part is completely disassembled, cleaned, inspected, fully restored and tested to meet original specifications before it’s sold. 
If an upgrade has been made from the original 
design or material of a particular part or engine, upgrades will be added as it is remanufactured. 
In 2013, remanufacturing at Cummins had sales 
of about $1 billion. Cummins’ remanufacturing 
operations include nine global facilities and offers about 3,000 part numbers.
TO LEARN mORE 
You can learn more about Cummins’ complete 
line of engines at cumminsengines.comPOwER 
GENERATION
Cummins Power Generation has a proven 
track record of developing cleaner combustion techniques in its natural gas and diesel 
generators, combined with factory-integrated 
exhaust aftertreatment, to meet stringent  global emissions standards.
Sophisticated electronic engine controls 
have virtually eliminated visible smoke, and better engine design has reduced lubricating 
oil consumption to only 0.15 percent of fuel 
consumed – the best in the industry. 
Power Gen’s lean-burn gas engine generators, 
used in combined heat and power (CHP) 
applications, significantly reduce wasted energy 
and overall emissions. Meanwhile, the business unit’s Energy Solutions Business is developing   CHP systems that use a wide range of  alternative fuels including an invasive weed  in Africa (page 66).
In 2013, Cummins Power Generation entered 
the residential and light commercial marketplace with the introduction of the QuietConnect and PowerConnect generators (page 38). Using its state-of-the-art Acoustical Testing Center, 
engineers designed some of the quietest  
standby generators in the market.
Here’s a look at some of the other key 
sustainability developments at Cummins  
Power Generation over the past year:
HIGH HORSEPOwER GENERATOR SETS
wHAT’S NEw :   
Cummins Power Generation in April, 2014, 
became the first manufacturer to receive 
Tier 4 Final certification from the EPA for its complete line of high-horsepower generator sets, ranging from 680 kilowatt (kW) to  2,750 kW. Generator sets in this power 
range are typically used for backup power in 
critical power applications such as hospitals and data centers. Cummins Tier 4 Final systems were available eight months ahead 
of the EPA’s Tier 4 Final implementation date 
of January 1, 2015.
 
A Cummins employee uses ultrasonic inspection to verify that 
an engine crankshaft meets factory specifications.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  32
SPECIAL fEATURES: The new Tier 4 Final 
generator sets achieve a 99 percent reduction in particulate matter (PM) emissions when 
compared to a Tier 2 product. The SCR 
aftertreatment system, together with the latest controls, achieves a NOx reduction of 94 percent or more. The newly certified units will also qualify 
for standby power applications in locations where 
air quality is impaired or where stricter local air quality regulations require Tier 4 Final generator sets even for emergency use.
qUOTABLE: “This achievement definitively 
demonstrates Cummins’ leadership role in diesel 
emissions reduction technology,” said Dennis Heathfield, Executive Director – Power Systems, Cummins Power Generation. “By achieving this 
emission reduction, we are providing customers 
with more fuel-efficient and cleaner generators. Our Tier 4 Final-certified systems are a win for our company, a win for our customers and a  win for the environment.”
HYBRID POwER fOR TELECOm
wHAT’S NEw :  
Cummins Power Generation signed a five-
year agreement with Heliocentris in 2013 
to incorporate that company’s networked 
energy management technology into a new hybrid system to provide power for cellular base stations and other applications.
SPECIAL fEATURES: The system integrates 
diesel generators with additional power components such as wind turbines or fuel  cells to reduce fuel consumption and operating  costs. The resulting hybrid system reduces  
the operational expense for cell sites by up  to 70 percent while also significantly reducing 
their carbon footprint.
NOTABLE: Diesel generators are the preferred 
source of electrical power for off-grid and standby power applications such as cellular base stations because of their durability and reliability.
GENERATOR-DRIVES AND  
mOBILE GENERATORS
wHAT’S NEw :  
Power Generation introduced two new 
diesel G-Drive engines certified to meet EPA 
Tier 4 Final emission regulations, the latest regulations put out by the agency. New mobile generators for the rental equipment market were also introduced based  
on the G-Drive engines. They generate  
150 kilowatts of electrical energy (kWe)  and 200 kWe, respectively.
SPECIAL fEATURES: The QSB7 and QSL9 
are expected to be available in 2014. The QSB7 
is rated at either 240 or 315 horsepower while the QSL9 will be rated at 433 hp. The new engines use a combination of Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) and Selective Catalytic  
Reduction (SCR) to reduce emissions without  
the use of a Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF).
 
A high horsepower diesel generator set with an  
aftertreatment system to treat emissions.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  33
The mobile generators smartly manage power 
between parallel-coupled generators to share loads. By automatically matching power to 
varying loads, this new generation of products 
significantly reduces waste and consumption.
NOTABLE: Through the use of SCR and 
Exhaust Gas Recirculation, the engines offer 
reduced maintenance and 4 percent better  
fuel efficiency than previous Cummins engines  in their class.
COREPLUS
wHAT’S NEw :  
Cummins Generator Technologies, a division 
of the Cummins Power Generation Business Unit, announced in 2012 the availability of its CorePlus Motor Generator and 
Power Electronics technology for hybrid 
commercial vehicles globally.
SPECIAL fEATURES: CorePlus is  
available with power, torque and performance 
characteristics suitable for hybrid systems, 
electric vehicle designs, range extender solutions and electrical power generation in vehicles.
The CorePlus Motor Generator fits between  
the vehicle engine and transmission, allowing 
original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to keep 
using their preferred engine and transmission. The Motor Generator has a rugged housing to allow it to operate in the harsh environment of  the engine bay.
NOTABLE: Cummins believes there is a strong 
market for engine electrification in medium- and heavy-duty commercial vehicles. The CorePlus Motor Generator will accelerate the evolution 
of engine electrification and drive even greater 
improvements in vehicle fuel efficiency and emissions reduction.
TO LEARN mORE 
You can learn more about Cummins Power 
Generation’s complete line of generators and related products at power.cummins.com. Cummins Generator Technologies’ complete  line of alternators and related products can be 
found at cumminsgeneratortechnologies.com 
COmPONENTS
The Components Business consists of four units 
that play a critical role in helping the Company’s engines operate efficiently and with near zero 
emissions: Cummins Emission Solutions, 
Cummins Filtration, Cummins Turbo Technologies and Cummins Fuel Systems.As Cummins increases its presence globally,  it is important that our products meet the needs of specific regions and comply with the regulatory 
requirements of those regions. 
Cummins has a portfolio of technologies that can  
be adapted to meet the power needs of specific markets, taking into account local product and 
application requirements. The Company must  
be able to successfully deliver its technology to customers in developing and unregulated countries but remain competitive as Cummins sells, modifies and services engines in these regions. Cummins  
has and will continue to actively work within regions 
and with regulators to drive toward lower emissions and greenhouse gas standards globally. 
Cummins participates in a regulatory program called 
Averaging, Banking and Trading (ABT). This EPA 
program allows emission credits to be generated and “banked” by a company whose products generate emissions that are lower than the regulated level. These banked credits may be applied to other engines  
whose emissions are higher than the standard. However, some emission credits are discounted by a  certain percentage depending on engine type and ABT  
program rules. As a result, a portion of the emissions credits generated go unused by the Company and  are thus an additional benefit to the environment.fIT fOR mARkETCUmmINS EmISSION SOLUTIONS
Cummins Emission Solutions (CES) designs, 
manufactures and integrates exhaust 
aftertreatment systems, growing into a  
$1 billion company since it was created  in 2002. That growth has been propelled  in large part by the growing regulation of  
engine emissions around the world.
wHAT’S NEw :  
In 2014, the business introduced its EcoFit 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) systems 
to high-horsepower engine markets. The 
business opened a new facility, Cummins Mineral Point East in Wisconsin, dedicated to manufacturing this product. The systems will first be used in rail applications.
SPECIAL fEATURES: The use of SCR  
to clean engine emissions allows combustion  to be optimized, improving fuel efficiency.  Engines using SCR have experienced  
up to six percent better fuel economy,  
lowering carbon dioxide (CO
2) emissions  
because the engines use less fuel.
NOTABLE: In response to new standards in 
China comparable to Euro IV regulations of 
particulate matter (PM) and oxides of nitrogen (NOx), CES has developed aftertreatment systems for customers in that market. 
 The systems include partial-flow catalysts,  
diesel oxidation catalysts, diesel particulate  
filters and SCR systems. CES has now sold  more than 1.7 million SCR systems, helping customers cover more than 80 billion miles. 
TO LEARN mORE  
You can learn more about Cummins Emission Solutions at cumminsemissionsolutions.com
CUmmINS fILTRATION
Modern diesel engines require an  
unprecedented degree of fuel cleanliness to 
support the high pressure common rail fuel systems that allow for precise fuel injections  at critical times in the combustion process  
to reduce emissions and noise.
wHAT’S NEw :  
In 2013, Cummins Filtration’s advanced 
NanoNet filtration media began making its 
way into the business unit’s fuel filtration 
products beyond just Fleetguard products, where it debuted exclusively in 2012.Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) is an exhaust aftertreatment system designed and manufactured by Cummins Emission Solutions 
that readers will see mentioned in this section 
several times.
With the use of SCR aftertreatment to remove 
oxides of nitrogen (NOx) from the exhaust,  
engine combustion can be optimized to  
improve fuel efficiency. Engines integrated  with SCR aftertreatment have delivered up  to six percent better fuel economy.
SCR-based systems convert NOx, which  
can cause smog and acid rain, into nitrogen  
and water that can be safely emitted into  the atmosphere. 
The technology has been around for a while,  
but got a lot of attention when it was integrated  
with Cummins’ EPA-certified 2010 on-highway engines. SCR’s use has been successfully  expanded to other engines since.ABOUT SCR
Cummins Emission Solutions’ full-system aftertreatment solutions 
include diesel oxidation catalysts, diesel particulate filters and selective catalytic reduction technologies in a combined package.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  35
SPECIAL fEATURES: NanoNet traps 99 
percent of all particles as small as 4 microns  (12 times smaller than the smallest particle visible 
to the human eye) to deliver superior protection 
and performance. The filtration media exhibits between seven and 13 times greater retention  of harmful particles during engine vibration and 
fuel surge than its closest competitor.
NOTABLE: The business unit makes  
extensive use of recycled steel in its  own products and has its own program,  Filtering Change, to work with customers  
on recycling Cummins Filtration products.In 2013, more than 771 tons of filters, including 
665 tons of steel, were recycled through the program. This equates to about 857 metric  
tons of greenhouse gas emissions avoided. 
To learn more about Cummins Filtration,  
go to cumminsfiltration.com
CUmmINS TURBO TECHNOLOGIES
Turbochargers play a critical role in the modern 
engine, boosting power and efficiency with a minimum of weight, and producing heat for chemical reactions critical to some exhaust aftertreatment systems.
wHAT’S NEw :  
Cummins Turbo Technologies unveiled in 
2014 a new addition to its existing range  of large turbochargers for engines 16 liters 
and above. The new Series 900 provides 
robust and flexible solutions for the off-highway market. 
SPECIAL fEATURES: This product will allow 
Cummins Turbo Technologies to bring to market 
the most efficient turbochargers in this range with new technologies capable of improving overall turbocharger efficiency by up to 10 percent.NOTABLE: Turbo Technologies also unveiled plans for investing in future technology that will improve fuel efficiency. The shift in focus 
to prioritize fuel economy highlights Cummins 
Turbo Technologies’ belief that the industry has now reached the tipping-point. Global engine and equipment manufacturers are developing 
products designed to help customers with rising 
fuel prices. An example of this investment is the Waste Heat Recovery Turbine Expander, which can help improve fuel efficiency of a heavy-duty truck by 5 percent.
TO LEARN mORE  
You can learn more about Cummins Turbo Technologies at cumminsturbotechnologies.com
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  36
The Company in 2013 introduced the Cummins 
5.0L V8 Turbo Diesel that will be featured in the next generation of Nissan’s Titan pickup trucks. 
“This new engine will offer the right balance of 
power, performance and fuel economy while delivering the dependability that customers expect of a Cummins engine,” said Dave 
Crompton, Vice President of the Cummins  
Engine Business. “This will be a great package.”
In addition, the Company unveiled the Cummins 
ISV5.0, a closely related, 5-liter, V8 turbo diesel engine designed to efficiently power delivery 
trucks, school buses and motor homes.
“Many of our customers have asked for a 
Cummins alternative to gasoline or other  small displacement automotive diesel engines,” 
Crompton said. “The ISV5.0 represents the next 
dimension in fuel economy and performance as 
CUmmINS mAkES BIG mOVES IN PICkUP ,  
LIGHT TRUCk mARkETS
Customers looking for power and fuel economy in their next pickup truck will 
find a new Cummins engine in the light-duty market and new features on a 
long-time favorite in the heavy-duty market.
An employee works on the new Cummins  
5.0L V8 Turbo Diesel engine at the Columbus Engine  Plant in Columbus, Indiana.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  37
Cummins continues to broaden our on-highway 
product line.”
With more than 300 horsepower and a torque 
rating in the mid 500s (lb-ft), the engine 
will provide light truck customers a unique combination of towing capacity and fuel economy in the highly competitive North American pickup 
truck marketplace. And with that increase in fuel 
economy, there is a corresponding reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
With a compacted graphite iron cylinder  
block, forged steel crankshaft, high strength 
aluminum alloy heads and composite valve 
covers, both engines offer maximum durability  in a lightweight package.
Customers will also find that the new engines 
are extremely quiet. Jim Katzenmeyer, Executive 
Engineer of the V8 program, said it was the  first thing he noticed when he drove one of  the early Nissan Titan pickup truck prototypes. He said the same is true of the ISV5.0
“Every day drivers will appreciate the smooth, 
quiet operation of the ISV5.0,” he said.Both engines also include an advanced ceramic glow plug system that significantly reduces start times in cold weather. The plugs are designed 
to last the life of the engine with no maintenance 
and reach starting temperature in under two seconds when it’s -20 degrees Fahrenheit  (-29 Celsius).
In addition to the new 5.0L platform,  
Cummins also added fuel-saving innovations  to the legendary 6.7L Turbo Diesel best known for powering Ram heavy duty pickup trucks.  The 2014 Cummins powered Ram represents  
a 25-year partnership between Chrysler  
and Cummins.
For the 2013 model year, Cummins began  
adding Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR)  
after-treatment downstream of the engines to 
reduce emissions and improve fuel efficiency. SCR injects diesel exhaust fluid into the exhaust stream, creating a chemical reaction that converts harmful oxides of nitrogen into  
natural components in the air.
 
 The use of SCR to clean engine emissions  allows combustion to be optimized,  
improving fuel efficiency for Ram customers.  
The 6.7L Turbo Diesels with SCR have seen  fuel economy increases of 10 percent or more while still providing best-in-class towing  capacity to Ram owners.
At Cummins, innovation is one of the Company’s 
core values. Cummins’ engineers are constantly working toward the next big thing to meet customer needs.
That’s why at the Chicago Auto Show in 
February, 2014, visitors could see one of two concept Nissan Frontier Diesel Runners – Powered by Cummins. The 2.8L turbo diesel engine, developed at the Cummins Technical 
Center in Columbus, Indiana, produces about  
200 horsepower and more than 350 lb-ft of torque. Nissan and Cummins are evaluating  the viability of the package for the North 
American truck market. 
“These trucks really highlight modern, clean-
diesel engine characteristics, with durability  and power that Cummins customers have  come to depend on,” Crompton said.  
“The Nissan Frontier is a great platform to 
demonstrate the potential of a Cummins-powered compact pickup for the U.S. market.” The Frontier Diesel Runners – Powered by Cummins.  
The truck has a 2.8L turbo diesel engine. Nissan and  Cummins are evaluating the viability of the package.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  38
CUmmINS’ TESTING CENTER kEEPS  
NEw GENERATORS HUSH, HUSH
When you’re trying to build one of the market’s quietest generators,  
it helps to have one of the world’s largest acoustical testing centers  
in the power generation business.
Cummins Power Generation’s test center in 
suburban Minneapolis, Minnesota, is playing a key role in the Company’s entry into the 
residential and light commercial marketplace 
with the 2013 introduction of the Cummins’ QuietConnect and PowerConnect generators.
“The Acoustical Testing Center allows us to be 
very precise in our testing, which helps us to 
produce a generator that is extremely quiet,” said Dr. Shashikant More, a Cummins engineer who works at the center and has a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering with a specialization in 
acoustics. “The center was one of the things  
that attracted me to come here.”
With its distinctive curved roof and sound-
absorbing acoustical wedges throughout the 
interior, the test center eliminates unwanted 
noise, leaving just sound from whatever is being tested to be precisely measured and evaluated.Opened in the fall of 2011, the test center,  known around the Company as the “ATC,”  is also temperature and humidity controlled.  
Cummins engineers can conduct testing any 
time of year and be confident that conditions are identical to the time when they tested earlier.
Cummins Power Generation engineers will 
frequently test individual fans and other 
components in different combinations until  they reach an integrated system that makes  the least possible noise while producing the power customers need.
The Company’s work to reduce noise, however, 
typically starts well before anything is tested in the ATC. Cummins engineers first use acoustical noise modeling to explore different ideas on a 
computer before going to the time and expense 
of building a prototype and testing it in the ATC. This two-pronged approach enables Cummins Power Generation to study a wide variety  of possible solutions in a way that’s  extremely cost effective.
Still, there’s nothing like a little anecdotal  
evidence to validate an idea. While Cummins engineers had all kinds of statistics to back  them up, they knew their efforts on the Connect 
series had been successful when a group of 
visiting distributors invited to see the generators in action in 2013 asked if the generator in the ATC was actually turned on. 
Why all the attention to sound?  
The QuietConnect and PowerConnect  
generators will provide standby power to homes and businesses. In more than 500 separate interviews before Cummins engineers went to 
work, potential customers made it clear they  
wanted efficient and quiet standby power. Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  39
But unwanted noise is more than just an 
annoyance for homeowners and small businesses. It’s increasingly regulated,  
especially by local governments seeking to 
maintain the quality of life within their jurisdictions.
While it doesn’t yet approach the regulation  
of engine emissions by agencies like the  
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,  noise regulations are a growing concern  for many consumers.
Of course, first and foremost, customers want 
a reliable generator that will keep their families 
safe and businesses running during power 
outages. The Connect series, powered by the reliable Cummins QSJ2.4 engine, delivers output ratings from 22 to 60 kilowatts in a natural gas or propane fuel option. They are designed and tested to perform under extreme temperatures 
and at high altitude and include a durable, 
corrosion resistant enclosure able to  withstand winds up to 150 miles-per-hour.And in keeping with the Company’s mission to demand that “everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment,” the generators meet all EPA emission regulations  
for emergency and standby generators.
“Now, it’s easier and more affordable than ever 
for homeowners and business owners to enjoy the peace of mind that reliable backup power from Cummins Power Generation can provide,” said Cummins Vice President Tony Satterthwaite, 
President – Cummins Power Generation,  
in launching the new Connect series. Distributors and customers gather at the Cummins Power 
Generation Acoustical Testing Center (ATC) in Fridley, Minnesota, in 2013 to witness the new Connect series generators in action. The ATC has helped Cummins  
engineers design extremely quiet generators.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  40
PRACTICES
Cummins is constantly looking for ways to shrink the Company’s environmental 
footprint, focusing its environmental management efforts on the three main 
areas articulated in Cummins’ Corporate Environmental Policy: compliance, 
pollution prevention and resource conservation.
Cummins’ Enterprise Environmental Management 
System (EMS) has been the primary driver for environmental footprint reductions and other 
improvements in Cummins facilities since its 
inception in 2003 and the global deployment  that followed. 
The Company adopted a model that included 
a common framework to ensure a similar look, 
feel and fundamental approach throughout the organization, with the flexibility to allow individual sites and businesses to address opportunities and risks most important to them.
Since 2007, Cummins has integrated health 
and safety processes and procedures with the environment in accordance with the international standard OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health 
& Safety Management System, to create the 
Enterprise Health, Safety and Environmental Management System (HSEMS) (page 48). ENVIRONmENT // PRACTICES
At the Rocky Mount Engine Plant in North Carolina,  
Energy Champions conduct “Energy Treasure Hunts”  on a regular basis to find and fix wasted energy use.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  41
AIR / ENERGY / GHG
In 2013, the company’s GHG emissions 
increased both on an absolute basis  
(up 3 percent) and adjusted for sales  
(up 2 percent) from the prior year.  Since Cummins’ goal uses a baseline year  of 2005, however, emissions have decreased 
adjusted for sales by 33 percent since that  
year, while increasing slightly at 1 percent  on an absolute basis.In 2006, the Company set its first formal greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goal:  a 25 percent GHG intensity reduction 
between 2005 and 2010 based on Cummins 
comprehensive GHG emissions foot print. The focus on energy and greenhouse gas represented the first company-wide initiative of 
its kind targeting a specific set of environmental 
impacts around the globe. Cummins exceeded its target by achieving a 28 percent GHG reduction. Cummins is now a partner in the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Better Buildings, Better Plants Challenge, which is the industrial 
component of the Better Buildings Challenge. 
The challenge is a national leadership initiative calling on chief executive officers, university presidents and state and local leaders to 
significantly reduce energy use and share the 
results of their energy reduction strategies. 
-70%0%50%100%
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Normalized GHG Emissions (intensity)
Normalized Emissions GoalActual GHG EmissionsCMI Revenue (2005 constant $)
GHG reduction
goal of -27%Cummins is committed to 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 27 percent (adjusted for revenue)  
between 2005 and 2015. 
This goal does not  
include performance  
from unconsolidated 
joint ventures.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  42
The goal of the Better Buildings Challenge is 
to make American commercial and industrial buildings at least 20 percent more energy  
efficient by 2020. 
As a partner, Cummins has committed to  
a 25 percent energy efficiency intensity  reduction from 2005 to 2015, which equates  
to a 27 percent greenhouse gas (GHG)  
reduction. Cummins has shared energy best practices publicly through the DOE website, including details on the Company’s Energy Champion program (page 54) and our  
showcase plant in Jamestown, New York.
Cummins is also participating in the  
DOE’s Superior Energy Performance  (SEP) pilot, which requires rigorous energy  
performance assessments and achievement 
of significant, statistically validated energy performance improvements.
Rocky Mount Engine Plant (RMEP) is already 
certified, and the Columbus (Indiana) Technical 
Center, Jamestown Engine Plant (New York) and 
Cummins Power Generation Fridley, Minnesota,  plant are pursuing certification by 2015. 
Since 2007, Cummins has implemented  
an energy efficiency capital fund to finance 
energy-related projects.  Cummins has a comprehensive investment plan designed to achieve the Company’s 2015 energy and GHG intensity goals. In 2013, Cummins used 
this fund to complete 43 capital projects, with 
a total investment of $8 million and annual cost savings of $2.5 million.
To support Cummins’ DOE goal, an additional 
$20 million has been allocated for 2014.  
Projects must meet the Company’s investment criteria and are expected to save $7.3 million per year in energy costs (an internal rate of return of 27 percent) and reduce carbon emissions by 
56,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents 
(CO
2e) per year.
Cummins is focusing its efforts on four areas:
 »Improve existing facilities
 »Improve energy efficiency of product testing
 »New construction
 »Energy management
Several elements of the Company’s energy 
efficiency program have been recognized as 
innovations, including: the establishment of an energy efficiency team, a capital fund that made available dedicated, annual funding for energy efficiency improvements and the “Unplugged  
 Challenge,” started in 2008, which kept energy 
use to a minimum over site holiday shutdowns.
Some recent significant actions in energy 
efficiency include:
 »Investing in regenerative dynamometers to recover energy from Cummins’ engine testing operations. Regenerative dynamometers 
convert engine power to electricity, which the 
Company uses to help power its facilities.  In some cases, the Company generates more power than it needs and sells the excess.
 »Upgrading old infrastructure with energy efficient alternatives. A recent example is the $3 million cooling tower replacement at Columbus Engine Plant, which will realize $500,000 a year in energy savings, reduce 
carbon emissions by 4,800 metric tons of 
CO
2e per year (8.8 percent of site footprint) 
and conserve 21 million gallons of water  per year. 
 »Implementing the ISO 50001 international standard for energy management.  Cummins Turbo Technologies, Huddersfield, U.K.; the Columbus Engine Plant and the 
Rocky Mount Engine Plant in North Carolina 
are now ISO 50001 certified, with 12 more sites to be added in 2014 or early 2015. Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  43
wATER 
Water continues to accelerate as a global priority 
for both environmental and social sustainability. 
Cummins’ water strategy, launched in 2011, 
prompts actions in four priority areas to create  a holistic approach to water sustainability: 
 »Water conservation 
 »Operational risks
 »Community alignment 
 »Supply chain
Cummins in 2013 reduced direct water use by more than 100 million gallons on an absolute 
basis or 10 percent adjusted for hours worked. 
Total water withdrawn decreased from  1.069 billion gallons in 2012 to 962 million  gallons in 2013. Since 2010, direct water use  is down by 15 percent and water use adjusted for hours worked by more than 30 percent.
Cummins believes effective water conservation 
will result in lower costs for the Company, reduced demand and competition for a shared local resource and will enable Cummins to better 
respond to supply interruptions. 
The Company uses a variety of tools to promote 
conservation. Traditional approaches such as scorecards, cascaded objectives and targets  are blended with more consultative approaches 
that highlight opportunities to site leaders. 
The relatively low price of water can create 
obstacles to driving improvement in site level  performance. Cummins has found that the true cost of water is often masked by the complexity of water systems. Many direct costs such as 
pumping, electricity and chemical usage are often 
not accounted for when evaluating a project. 
Cummins has developed a tool that identifies 
water costs embedded in activities such as pumping, electricity and chemical use. Using  
this tool at an engine plant in Columbus, Indiana, 
the Company calculated that the fully embedded cost of water exceeded $20 per thousand  gallons when incorporating the cost of energy 
required for heating. That’s more than five times 
the basic water and wastewater cost of under  $3 per thousand gallons. 
Moving forward, Cummins 2020 Environmental 
Sustainability Plan is setting water conservation 
goals to this 2010 baseline (page 16). Beyond  
the cost and resource benefits, conservation efforts improve business continuity, reduce  water dependency in production operations  
and increase the Company’s ability to mitigate 
water supply interruptions. 
For example, the installation of a closed loop, 
air cooled chiller system at Cummins’ new High Horsepower plant in Phaltan, India, almost 
Cummins employees working on a water project  
at the village of Manjarsumbha in India.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  44
completely eliminates water dependency for 
cooling operations and offsets between 10 and 25 million gallons of water use per year in a 
water-stressed region of the world.Community alignment is also critical to Cummins’ 
water management strategy. Building upon the Company’s long history of Corporate 
Responsibility, Cummins is driving a focus  
on community water projects. 
Even before the Company set goals in this  
area as part of the 2020 Sustainability Plan, 
Cummins was working on significant water 
resource collaborations with local communities such as the village of Nandal (page 92)  near Cummins’ Megasite in India.  The project has made more than 40 million  liters of water available to the village so far through various means. 
The final focus of Cummins’ water strategy 
is supply chain. Approximately 88 percent of Cummins’ water footprint exists in the supply chain, mostly associated with the extraction 
and production of metals. As part of 2020 
Sustainability Plan, Cummins’ efforts to reduce 
Work begins on the dam at the Village of Nandal  
near Cummins’ Megasite.
Total water use
Water withdrawn 
normalized 
to labor hours 
2010 1.14 B  
2011 1.08 B 2012 1.07 B
2013 0.96 B
0.00.40.81.21.6
Total water withdrawn 
in billion gallons
2010 2011 2012 2013-50%-30%-10%10%30%50%
Intensity change Billions of gallons
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  45
the use of raw materials (page 16) will directly  
reduce the Company’s overall water footprint. 
Cummins’ water strategy drives a holistic 
approach to water management that extends 
beyond traditional approaches relying solely on conservation. While conservation efforts remain critical, the shared nature of this constrained resource demands that Cummins recognize  
the implications of water scarcity issues  
beyond direct operations. 
wASTE
Cummins recycled 89 percent of its total 
generated waste in 2013, and several sites are 
either at or near “zero disposal” levels, although 
the Company will take a new look at those designations in light of the goals included in  the 2020 Environmental Sustainability Plan. 
The approach used by these sites, however, have 
helped Cummins comprehensively characterize and evaluate its global waste footprint which in turn led to the development of a formal waste minimization strategy. 
Using 2010 as a base year, Cummins’ total waste 
disposed decreased by about 12 percent in absolute terms, while experiencing a 28 percent  reduction in disposal adjusted to labor hours over 
the same period. Cummins has reduced process 
hazardous waste generation in the United States 
2010 2011 2012 2013
Total disposed waste
Disposed waste 
normalized 
to labor hours
0500010000150002000025000
Total disposed waste
in metric tons
-30%-15%0%15%30%
Intensity change Metric tons
 
2010 22,355 MT  
2011 24,685 MT 
2012 20,930 MT
2013 19,684 MTU.S. process hazardous waste
in metric tons
0255075100125
-60%-40%-20%0%20%40%60%
Intensity change
 Metric tons
Total hazardous waste
Hazardous waste 
normalized to labor hours  
2010 98 MT  
2011 101 MT 
2012 104 MT
2013 85 MT2010 2011 2012 2013wASTE fOOTPRINT COmPOSITION
Iron and steel 56%
Wood 12%General refuse 9%
Cardboard 9%
Liquid 5%Process-derived 4%Other 5%Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  46
Recycled metals 2010 2011 2012 2013
Ewaste 47.33 78.28 82.02 74.74
Copper and brass 742.78 1,008.31 816.65 692.86
Aluminum 728.39 956.22 1,022.13 995.06
Iron and steel 98,596.07 105,007.43 97,472.11 99,005.96
Recycled non-metals 2010 2011 2012 2013
Office paper 455.21 646.51 710.33 888.53
Plastic 1,172.27 1,403.82 1,267.98 1,605.73
Cardboard 12,672.43 15,943.06 16,372.29 15,106.18
Wood 18,673.68 24,471.27 24,754.84 20,579.72Recycled materials 
in metric tonsU.S. and Non-U.S. GHG emissions
in thousands of metric tons CO2e
United States 2010 2011 2012 2013
Direct emissions 114,443 117,298 113,746 129,617
In-direct emissions 298,654 305,533 284,004 289,836
U.S. totals 413,097 422,831 397,750 419,453
Non-U.S. 2010 2011 2012 2013
Direct emissions 97,514 98,490 92,499 90,588
In-Direct emissions 249,225 261,789 238,640 240,616 
Non-U.S. totals 346,739 360,279 331,139 331,204 
Total GHG 759,836  783,110 728,889 750,657 Energy use by fuel typein millions of British thermal units
United States 2010 2011 2012 2013
Diesel 772,213 814,036 810,555 875,961
Natural gas 1,005,109 997,172 934,413 1,127,241
Other fuels* 13,596 14,592 12,913 13,065
Purchased electricity** 4,769,821 4,930,122 4,845,711 4,926,180
U.S. total energy 6,560,740 6,755,922 6,603,593 6,942,447
Non-U.S. 2010 2011 2012 2013
Diesel 871,553 870,350 833,120 772,757
Natural gas 472,441 476,226 418,810 438,554
Other fuels* 142,740 140,839 97,121 96,540
Purchased electricity** 3,799,612 4,019,187 3,758,164 3,181,816 
Non-U.S. total energy 5,286,347 5,506,602 5,107,215 5,126,667 
Total primary energy usage 11,847,086 12,262,524 11,710,808 12,069,114 
*   Other fuels include propane/LPG, gasoline, purchased steam and hot water. **  Primary energy from purchased electricity considers a factor of 3 to account for generation,  
     transmission and distribution losses.
Energy use by facility type 
in millions of British thermal units
facility TypePurchased 
electricity * Diesel Natural gas Other fuels
Manufacturing - Heavy 4,838,918 874,325 717,610 56,058 
Manufacturing - Light 2,198,743 102,958 383,081 41,543
Test / R&D 666,111 638,383 251,533 2,279
Distribution / Services 470,578 31,992 129,863 7,996
Warehouses 183,466  995 49,192 1,686 
Offices / Data centers 387,180 65 34,517 42
*Includes generation, transmission & distribution lossesHere’s a more detailed look at Cummins’ energy use, emissions and recycled materials. 
Includes all consolidated operations and joint ventures subscribing  to the Enterprise Environmental Management System.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  47
by approximately 14 percent, on an absolute 
basis, since 2010. 
Compared with 2012, Cummins’ total waste 
disposed in 2013 decreased by 1,246 tons  
on an absolute basis or 5 percent, adjusted  for hours worked.
The Company has made even more progress 
on reducing hazardous waste from its U.S. 
processes. In 2013, Cummins reduced hazardous waste derived from its processes and adjusted for hours worked by 41 percent from 2010 levels. Compared with 2012, Cummins in 
2013 achieved an absolute reduction of 19 tons  
or 15 percent adjusted for hours worked. 
This substantial reduction was achieved  
through a multi-faceted effort that included 
product substitutions, improved waste 
segregation, improved inventory management, and increased efficiency in painting operations. Several facilities, for example, have successfully replaced solvent-based paints with water- 
based paints.
Cummins has successfully completed  
multiple projects related to manufacturing process redesign, improved waste segregation, 
increased employee engagement  
and proactive supplier partnerships.  The Company continues to make  capital investments in equipment that facilitates waste reduction and increases 
our ability to recycle. These efforts have 
helped Cummins reduce raw materials consumption, energy and water use,  and operating costs. 
Waste reduction is part of the entire  
supply chain. Cummins will reduce  waste from global facilities by  considering product and packaging  design and materials in the supply  
chain. By increasing its operational 
efficiency, Cummins can make  meaningful reductions in the waste  it disposes, lowering costs and  
improving the environment. 
The cost savings are significant.  
For example, Cummins Power  Generation facility in Kent in the  United Kingdom was able to collaborate 
with the Engine Business to save  
$772,000 by replacing 483,000 pounds  of traditional wood pallets with returnable packaging. The project, which paid for  
itself within six months, also reduced 
greenhouses gases by an estimated 170,000 pounds.Cummins GHG emissions by country
North America  56%
China  18%
India  10%
Europe & Middle East  8%Mexico  4%
Asia Paciﬁc 2%Russia & Africa  1%South America 1%
Cummins GHG emissions by business unit
Engine Business 64%Power Generation 9%Filtration 7%Distribution 5%Turbo Technologies 5%
Fuel Systems 5%
Corporate 3%
Emission Solutions 2%
Cummins GHG emissions by type
Electricity, other  68%
Stationary combustion  27%Mobil sources  4%Fugitive SF6  1%GLOBAL BUILDING STANDARDS 
Cummins’ new building standard is based on  
the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating 
and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE)  
189.1 to ensure implementation of energy  and water efficiency. 
While the Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) Silver standard 
is the industry respected norm, Cummins is considered a market leader with the adoption of ASHRAE 189.1. At minimum, all new buildings will be ASHRAE 189.1 compliant or LEED  
Silver equivalent unless business cases  
prove otherwise.
Both ASHRAE and LEED standards have been 
embraced by the U.S. Green Building Council, 
but Cummins expects that using ASHRAE 189.1 
as a design tool will allow Cummins to consider the total cost of ownership in the Company’s buildings, increasing energy efficiency and water conservation.
As part of Cummins’ 2015 greenhouse gas 
investment plan, the Company will lessen its footprint in new buildings. With ASHRAE 189.1 standard, we estimate that our buildings’ carbon footprint will be reduced 21 percent over what we may have constructed otherwise.
HEALTH, SAfETY AND ENVIRONmENTAL 
mANAGEmENT SYSTEm
Cummins expects all sites to comply with Health, 
Safety and Environmental Management System policy, procedures and initiatives independent of 
certification status and extends goal setting to its 
entire organizational footprint. 
Cummins policies apply to more than just our 
employees, also extending to contingent workers, suppliers, contractors and even clients working 
at Company facilities. Cummins’ expectations 
extend beyond the Company’s physical boundaries, encompassing maintenance and support services that often occur at customers’ 
locations or even remote areas where our 
products are used.
Cummins strategically drives certification to 
recognized HSE standards. Since 2003, the Company has focused on its manufacturing 
locations with 94 percent certified to ISO14001 
and 92 percent of manufacturing sites certified to OHSAS 18001. By 2015, Cummins expects the HSEMS Enterprise to consist of dual-certified Cummins Vice President and Chief Technical Officer John Wall was recognized in 2013 for his engineering contributions in developing 
improvements for low emissions, powertrain 
efficiency and alternative fuels with the Soichiro Honda Medal from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME).
The medal, established in 1983, recognizes an 
individual for outstanding achievement in developing improvements in the field of personal transportation.
Wall has been with Cummins for more than 25 years, 
beginning in research and product engineering and advancing into engineering leadership. His work has contributed to the development and application of innovative technologies in diesel engine emission 
controls and environmental policy both domestically 
and internationally.
Under Wall’s leadership, Cummins has 
accomplished a number of “firsts” in emission 
control: first engine manufacturer to meet 
2002 U.S. EPA emission standards, first to introduce cooled exhaust gas recirculation for emission control, first to introduce NOx adsorber technology on commercial heavy duty diesels in 2007 and first to certify to U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency 2010 emission standards,  
to name just a few.wALL HONORED wITH ASmE mEDALCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  49
sites, representing 100 percent of the Company’s 
manufacturing and distribution locations.
By the end of 2013, the Company’s independent 
auditor certified 89 entities, representing 202 
sites and corporate offices as part of the HSEMS. Cummins HSEMS scope has been extended to encompass manufacturing joint ventures and 
distributors. They are committed to registering 
their sites by the end of 2015. 
By incorporating practices and procedures  
into the HSEMS to meet the new ISO 50001 Energy Management Standard, Cummins has 
delivered a common global approach to make 
energy efficiency a standard practice across  the Company. Broad objectives and targets  are set at the corporate level to establish  
direction for critical corporate initiatives. 
Cummins’ business units and sites then  build upon them to establish site-specific objectives that align with Company priorities  but address site-specific needs and challenges.AUDITOR CERTIfICATION PROGRAm
Environmental goals are measured through a 
structured audit process. A third party auditor, 
Bureau Veritas Certification (BVC), certifies 
our enterprise system and the data Cummins collects. Cummins supplements the audit sampling conducted by BVC by conducting 
annual audits using internally trained HSE 
auditors. Every site is audited on an annual basis.
In 2013, more than 100 HSE and other  
leaders were trained. In addition, 85 internal auditors trained in the previous years have  
been certified as Lead Auditors after successfully 
completing a series of audits as a team member and as an audit leader. 
This structured audit program validates 
performance and provides a mechanism for HSE 
auditors to share best practices. Through these practices, Cummins is not only improving sites – it is building our next generation of HSE leaders.
 
 
 HEALTH, SAfETY AND  ENVIRONmENT A wARDS
In 2005, Cummins created the Health, Safety and 
Environment Awards to recognize employees and 
sites that excel in the commitment to world class performance and environmental stewardship. 
Winners of the 2013 awards presented their 
projects to the Cummins Board of Directors 
and participated in an exhibition that provided an opportunity for others in the Company to duplicate these best practices.
The growing number and quality of the  
projects demonstrates that Cummins’  
employees embrace and celebrate  environmental stewardship.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  50
CUmmINS STRIVES TO REACH NEw  
‘zERO DISPOSAL ’ CHALLENGE
When it comes to reaching Cummins’ “Zero Disposal” goal,  
Ernie Smith says the last 5 to 10 percent of the waste stream  
is always the most difficult for any location to handle.
“By the time you get to that last 10 percent, 
you’ve already grabbed all the easy stuff, all the low-hanging fruit,” said Smith, Cummins’ 
Environmental Affairs Manager who manages  
the Company’s solid waste. “What remains  can be very complex. It’s where you have  the biggest struggles.”
Cummins’ goal of 30 sites achieving Zero 
Disposal status by 2020 might not seem that difficult given the Company in 2013 recycled about 89 percent of its waste. 
But to reach Zero Disposal, Cummins locations 
will have to figure out ways to recycle food 
waste, unusual packaging and relatively small amounts of certain materials that many recycling companies have little or no interest in.
Darlington’s Neville Scott feeds one of the trash balers on site 
at Cummins’ engine plant in Darlington in the United Kingdom.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  51
All Cummins sites will have to raise their game in 
some way. In addition to the Zero Disposal goal, Cummins has set a goal of increasing recycling 
across the Company from 88 percent in 2012  
to 95 percent by 2020.
Zero Disposal is a Cummins specific term.  
A Zero Disposal site recycles 100 percent  
of its waste in a legitimately useful manner. 
Burning trash is only acceptable as a last  resort, when there are no other viable options. And then, it can only be done if there is a net energy gain – more energy output than input.
Boosting recycling requires an unwillingness  
to take “no” for an answer says Neville Scott, who as Health, Safety and Environmental Manager at the Darlington Engine Plant in the 
United Kingdom leads one of the top locations 
within Cummins for recycling. Over the years, he’s heard “no” or “it can’t be done” numerous times only to discover a new way to reduce, reuse, or recycle. Some of the more creative projects at  Darlington include:
 »The plant found a way to recycle the wooden 
pallets it receives with engine blocks from 
Cummins’ Rocky Mount Engine Plant in North Carolina. A vendor reconditions the pallets  and then ships them back at a lower cost  
than Rocky Mount can buy new pallets.
 »Darlington found an accredited waste service 
provider for some waste wood that couldn’t easily be recycled. The vendor grinds it up and sells it to a nearby greenhouse that uses it for 
fuel to keep plants warm in cold weather.
 »The plant has worked with an accredited 
service provider to recycle paint solvents,  using the recycled solvent to clean paint  
lines at the facility.
Even Darlington, however, still struggles with that 
last little bit of waste. The food service at the plant voluntarily separates out food waste, which is then put through a macerator for shredding before it is discharged to the local sewage treatment facility. That facility then captures  the food solids and composts them until  
they are eventually applied to the land as  
a fertilizer and soil conditioner.
 A small amount of food waste, though,  
comes into Darlington’s waste stream from people who bring their lunch to the plant.  
That waste joins small amounts of various  
other wastes that are difficult to recycle.  Together, the waste is compacted and  shipped to a permitted waste service provider 
who sorts through it one last time for anything 
that can be composted or recycled.
What remains is burned as a refuse derived  
fuel at a waste to energy facility. 
Smith says meeting both the Zero Disposal  
goal and increasing the Company’s recycling  
rate will require a holistic approach like Darlington’s, with Cummins sites working together to share best practices.
“Right now, we’re very competitive with other 
companies in our industry when it comes to recycling, but we want to be better,” Smith said. “Getting to that next level is not going to be easy, but I know we can do it.” 
These bins show part of the reason Cummins Darlington  
Engine Plant in the United Kingdom is one of the top  plants for recycling within the Company.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  52
CUmmINS w ATER CONSERVATION  
CRITICAL TO ENVIRONmENTAL  
AND BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY
More than 894 million people worldwide do not have access to improved water 
sources. That means one in six people don’t have clean water for drinking, 
bathing and cooking. The United Nations estimates that by 2025, two-thirds  
of the world population could be living under water stressed conditions.
 Water is a critical resource for Cummins’ operations 
including manufacturing and testing. Water scarcity not only threatens the security of the 
communities where Company employees live and 
work, but also Cummins ability to do business. 
Because water is such a critical need for our 
business, communities and the environment, Cummins is doing its part to address water 
issues. Since 2010, Cummins has reduced 
company-wide water usage intensity by more than 30 percent, adjusted to total work hours.
wATER mANAGEmENT AT CUmmINS
Water conservation is just the starting point of 
understanding water management – embedded costs, risks, and the challenges facing communities complete the picture. In 2011, the Company embarked on a structured water strategy to address the complexities of water management in four areas: conservation, 
business operations risk, community engagement 
and supply chain. Using an advanced water management tool called the Global Risk Screen (GRS), Cummins now systematically targets  its actions and prioritizes Company facilities  
for on-site water assessments that: 
01 Evaluate water conservation and  
efficiency opportunities.
02 Develop a more refined understanding of  
risk exposure and mitigation opportunities.
03 Educate local employees on the complexities 
of emerging water management topics.
04 Share best practices between sites. 
Part of the Cummins project at the village of Nandal  
was building this wall to create a holding area for water,  which is scarce in the village.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  53
A fOCUS ON INDIA
Cummins’ greatest region of focus has been 
India, the Company’s most water stressed 
country of operation. 
“The severe water scarcity and lack of water 
harvesting or conservation was destroying the lives and good health of the villagers of Nandal 
(page 92), which neighbors the Cummins 
Megasite in Phaltan, India,” said Anant Talaulicar, Vice President and President - Components Group and Chairman, Cummins India Ltd. 
“This was a real wake up call for me, and I 
committed that not only will Cummins bring our 
talents to help alleviate this crisis, but that we would embark aggressively on a comprehensive water conservation initiative across all of our 
operations in India.
“Today, I feel very proud of the good work our 
employees have done in Nandal from rain water harvesting to drip irrigation to modern toilets to  planting crops that minimize water requirements,” he said. “This work has dramatically improved the quality of people’s lives and their livelihood. 
Simultaneously, the Health, Safety and 
Environmental team in India has drawn up  a comprehensive long term plan to improve  water utilization acros s all our facilities.”
mORE TO BUILD ON
The Company’s new Environmental Sustainability 
Plan calls for reducing direct water use across the Company by 33 percent by 2020, adjusted for hours worked. In those areas where water is 
scarce, the plan also calls for achieving “water 
neutrality” at 15 manufacturing sites by off-setting water use with community improvements like those at Nandal. 
Throughout the Company’s operations, whether 
the region is water scarce or not, there are great examples of water conservation and optimizing water use to build on. The Columbus Technical Center (CTC) in 
Columbus, Indiana, is the Company’s largest user of water, primarily through central plant 
operations and its 88 test cells. From 2010 to 
2013, the plant has reduced water use by 43 percent, or approximately 75 million gallons, through targeted water reductions.
CTC Facility Manager John Lashbrook said that 
one project involved the washing of bed plates in the test cells. The team found that the water was frequently left running much longer than it needed to be and millions of gallons of water could be 
wasted in just one test cell. Now water fixtures 
are on a timer. 
In Wuxi, China, at the Turbo Technologies plant, 
environmental leaders showed you don’t have  
to spend a lot of money to achieve cost savings 
and environmental benefits.
Through a combination of extending the use of  
lubricating oil, the use of a better machine cutting  
fluid and reducing oil use through better maintenance 
– the plant reduced its waste water by 25 percent, 
reduced chemical use and saved $30,000, a return on investment of more than 35 percent. 
Cummins will be looking for more examples  
like that as it pursues its new goals.
The foundation under construction for the water retention  
wall at the village of Nandal.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  54
ENERGY CHAmPIONS HUNT fOR SAVINGS
You can tell them by their green shirts and their determined look  
that says “I’m going to find wasted energy and fix it.”
They are Cummins Energy Champions and  
they have found hundreds of instances of  wasted energy around the Company, ranging 
from compressed air leaks and inefficient 
equipment, to lights left on and dock doors  left open letting in hot air. 
As they fix these examples and more, the  
Energy Champions are proving that small things 
can add up to make a big difference.
This year (2014) marks the 5th anniversary  
of Cummins Energy Champion program.  Since 2009, more than 240 Energy Champions 
and their deputies have gone through training 
and in turn trained countless Energy Leaders  to help in the effort. 
The program was created after Cummins 
committed to a voluntary 25 percent greenhouse 
gas reduction (GHG) goal by 2010 as part of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Climate Leaders program. “It is very exciting to me to that after five years, our Energy Champion program is still very actively engaging employees and teaching them how to 
reduce energy use,” said Mark Dhennin, Director 
of Energy Efficiency. “Employees know they are making a difference, both for the environment and for our bottom line, and that is what has  
kept this program successful and meaningful.”kEY TARGETS
Cummins has targeted its highest energy-
consuming plants, technical centers, offices,  
and warehouses for the Energy Champions 
program. By the end of 2014, the 46 largest energy-consuming sites in 11 countries  (which comprise approximately 90 percent  
of the Cummins global energy footprint)  
are required to complete the program.
 
Cummins’ Freddie Lacewell in the building management system 
control room at the Rocky Mount Engine Plant in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, can monitor energy use from every corner of the plant from the room. 
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  55
To date, the Company’s energy efficiency 
initiatives have delivered approximately  $30 million annually to Cummins’ bottom  
line, with about five to 10 percent of those 
savings coming from the grass-roots  employee engagement projects led by  the Energy Champions.
On average, energy efficiency projects have a 
very attractive 30 percent or more return on investment. The April, 2014, Energy Champion class was the largest ever – 53 environmental and facility leaders from every location in China.
The Champions take an intensive week-long 
course with specific training along seven energy themes: power management, lighting, building envelope, heating and cooling, machinery and 
equipment, fuel usage and energy recovery. 
There are course materials about energy 
and GHG basics and standards, including a primer on climate science, fundamental energy terms, how energy is generated and used, and 
understanding utility bills. 
 Champions also learn how to conduct energy 
efficiency assessments and energy treasure hunts, how to evaluate and prioritize projects  
and develop site energy plans. 
 
 SIGNIfICANT SAVINGS
“The Energy Champion program has been one 
of the best programs I have been involved with in 
my 32 years at Cummins, “ said Scott Williams, 
one of the first Energy Champions and Health, Safety and Environment leader at the Rocky Mount Engine Plant (RMEP) in North Carolina. 
The plant is the Company’s top energy user, at 
an annual spend of $6 million, with 22 percent coming from compressed air use. Compressed air is so expensive, and waste is so often ignored, that it is frequently called “the fourth utility.”  
RMEP is currently leading the Company’s 
targeted focus on compressed air. 
In addition, Rocky Mount is the first Cummins 
facility to install a high-tech building management 
system, which monitors energy use at each and 
every one of the more than 90 meters around the plant. Every breaker, compressed air drop, natural gas user and fuel tank has been metered in the last three years, and the data collected has 
supported numerous projects for electricity and 
compressed air reduction using Six Sigma, the business problem solving tool. 
Plant energy efficiency leaders estimate that its 
extensive metering program has saved the plant 
$250,000 in energy costs per year as well as nearly 2,000 metric tons of CO
2.In 2013, Tata Cummins Limited – Phaltan set out  to make a difference on energy. 
The plant Champion’s goal was to reduce the energy 
cost per engine. The team engaged a wide range of 
employees, from the plant manager to Health, Safety and Environmental leaders to shop floor employees  in doing projects
Some of their innovative work involved more efficient 
cooling systems, a big issue in a hot climate, and reducing idling time of a conveyor system. 
Ultimately, the plant achieved a 22 percent carbon 
footprint reduction per engine and a 26 percent  
plant-wide reduction, which equates to an annual 
avoidance of 2,280 metric tons of carbon dioxide  and savings of $233,000 in energy costs.
In recognition of these efforts, TCL Phaltan  
received the Cummins 2013 Chairman’s Award  
for Energy Efficiency.AwARD wINNING EffORTCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  56
PARTNERSHIPS AND POLICY
Cummins’ partnerships have been critical to helping the Company meet 
product emissions goals, use energy more efficiently and much more.  
Policy advocacy has helped Cummins bring environmental solutions  
to the marketplace. Here’s a look at just a few examples:
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPmENT 
COLLABORATION 
Cummins’ longstanding partnerships with the  
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and other 
federal and state agencies directly support the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and net oil imports. They also help achieve 
improvements in energy productivity while 
steadily reducing criteria emissions from the nation’s transportation and distributed power generation fleet.
Cummins’ current public-private projects include:
 »The SuperTruck Initiative (page 64) has 
significantly exceeded its engine and vehicle freight efficiency targets. The third and final objective is to demonstrate 55 percent brake 
thermal efficiency technology and to work 
toward commercialization. »The ATLAS (Advanced Technology Light Automotive Systems) project will complete its final objectives of 40 percent fuel economy 
improvement versus a baseline gasoline 
vehicle, with a new light duty diesel platform delivering Tier 2 / Bin 2 criteria emissions.  »CHP , a joint Cummins Power Generation / Engine Business program, has delivered  a natural gas Combined Heat and  
Power system, achieving more than  
80 percent efficiency.  ENVIRONmENT // P ARTNERSHIPS AND POLICY
The SuperTruck engine on display at the Mid-America  
Trucking Show in Louisville, Kentucky. The SuperTruck  project is a collaboration with the Department of Energy. »ARES (Advanced Reciprocating Engine 
Systems) has completed the third and final stage of high horsepower off-highway  
natural gas engine demonstration with  
50 percent brake thermal efficiency and  several advanced efficiency features.
 »The Ultra-Low Carbon Powertrain program is 
nearing completion. The partnership with the 
California Energy Commission is targeting  a 50 percent GHG emission reduction  through a downsized medium-duty engine/powertrain optimized for E85 ethanol. It will  
be demonstrated in Sacramento in 2014.
Underlying Cummins’ system-integration 
programs is a valuable portfolio of collaborative research and development agreements that  
team and fund world class researchers at the 
DOE’s system of national laboratories with  their counterparts at Cummins. 
They work jointly on combustion modeling 
and diagnostics, materials science, catalysis 
fundamentals, hybridization and more.
 
 ENVIRONmENTAL DEfENSE fUND 
Cummins continues to collaborate with the 
Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) to learn  
the degree of fugitive methane emissions from 
natural gas vehicles and the fuel supply chain. 
Through the sponsorship of a series of  
16 independent studies, EDF is coordinating  
the work of more than 90 universities,  
research facilities and industry partners that  are contributing to this research including Cummins and Cummins Westport. 
Data is being collected in five core areas: 
production, gathering lines and processing 
facilities, long-distance pipelines and storage, local distribution and commercial trucks and refueling stations. 
As producers of natural gas engines, Cummins 
and Cummins Westport are contributing to the study of fugitive methane emissions related to evaporative losses and incomplete combustion from vehicles, and fugitive emissions associated 
with fueling infrastructure, being led by West 
Virginia University. Cummins was honored at a ceremony in October, 2013, by the U.S. Department of  Energy (DOE) and the World Engineering 
Congress for surpassing its 25 percent energy 
reduction goal over the past two years. 
As a Partner in the DOE’s Better Buildings  
Better Plants Challenge, Cummins has  
pledged a 25 percent energy efficiency  
intensity reduction from 2005 to 2015 as  well as transparency in energy use reporting, sharing industrial energy efficiency best  practices and committing to a larger-scale 
showcase project such as the deep energy 
retrofit at the Jamestown Engine Plant in  New York. DOE A wARDCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  58
The results of the university’s study are  
expected to be submitted to a peer-reviewed journal in 2014, and all of the other studies  
are expected to be submitted for publication  
by the end of the year.
AD ASTRA AND CUmmINS PARTNERSHIP
Cummins sometimes partners with other 
companies to explore important issues.
For example, a team of researchers from the 
Ad Astra Rocket Company and Cummins Power Generation are exploring whether the combination of hydrogen and biogas might bring 
out the best in both of these alternative fuels.
The two companies announced in June, 2013, 
that they successfully powered a Cummins electrical generator using a mix of hydrogen  
and biogas. While there is still a lot of work to  be done, this achievement could be a significant 
milestone, especially for developing countries where natural resources are scarce.
“This is a tremendous achievement in terms 
of the science and engineering as well as the environmental benefits associated with the use  of hydrogen and biogas,” said Franklin Chang 
Diaz, a former astronaut who is Ad Astra’s  
Chief Executive Officer. He is also a member  of Cummins Board of Directors.
Ad Astra is based in Costa Rica where all of the 
country’s petroleum is imported. Leaders there 
have made energy independence a major priority. 
Water is one resource the country has plenty of and capitalizing on it as an energy source has long been considered a possible way to help 
meet the country’s power needs.EARTH University is a third partner in this 
initiative. The school based in Costa Rica teaches students from around the world the benefits 
of sustainable agriculture including converting 
animal waste into an energy source. Cummins has long been a supporter of the university.
Hydrogen and biogas are problematic  
fuel sources individually for several reasons.  
Hydrogen is volatile and difficult to control  making storage a challenge. Biogas,  meanwhile, can vary significantly in its  energy content depending upon its source. 
Researchers are exploring is whether the 
combination of hydrogen and biogas makes a higher quality biogas with a reasonable amount  of hydrogen, resulting in a truly useful renewable 
fuel that is comparable to natural gas.The Cummins - Ad Astra team poses near the generator  
powered with a mix of hydrogen and biogas. Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  59
GOVERNmENT RELATIONS
The Company’s Government Relations staff 
continues to advocate for policies, legislation, 
government research funding and regulatory 
guidelines that promote products and technologies that benefit the environment. 
Cummins’ Government Relations efforts in the 
United States include working with Congress, 
the Administration, state governments, trade associations and industry to protect EPA’s ability to develop regulations in the United States for heavy-duty vehicles. 
 In addition, the team seeks to broadly educate 
policy makers about how regulations, economic development and competitiveness can co-exist  
if developed properly. 
At the state level, Cummins successfully 
advocated for modified net metering  rules for Combined Heat and Power systems 
(CHP) in Minnesota through legislation that  
encourages the deployment of CHP  and other distributed technologies.
In India, Cummins pushed for new generator 
emission norms recently released by the federal 
government for below 800 kilowatt (kW) engines. The Company strongly supported the adoption 
of these new norms which will contribute to improving the quality of air in India. 
In the transportation area, Cummins is pushing 
for stronger emissions and fuel efficiency rules, along with low sulfur diesel requirements across the country. Cummins worked with the Society 
of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) to 
organize the “Diesel for the Future” conference  in Mumbai, where the importance of clean  diesel was a key topic.
In China, the Company is supporting the 
enforcement of emission regulations nationwide, 
and the adoption of fuel consumption regulations to make significant heavy-duty vehicle emission improvements possible. Cummins is working  
with the government, trade associations and 
industry partners in China to drive consensus  on effective fuel economy regulations.
The Company is also encouraging the U.S. 
government to provide assistance and best 
practices to Chinese policy makers in this area. 
Cummins hosted U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry at the Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Company Limited (BFCEC) on Feb. 15, 2014. 
Secretary of State John Kerry speaks at the  
Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Company Limited.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  60The Columbus Engine Plant (CEP) put a special focus 
on the environment in and outside the plant in June  of 2013, coinciding with World Environmental Day.
The plant hosted a separate activity for each week  
of the month, including:
 »The plant continued work on a two-mile stretch of a country road, collecting hundreds of pounds of 
trash. The plan has been cleaning that stretch for 
more than five years.
 »CEP held an environmental awareness day, inviting more than 30 vendors into the plant to talk about their environmental initiatives.
 »The plant hosted a community-wide recycling event, collecting tons of material as it did in 2012.
 »CEP participated in an adopt-a-creek program with the Columbus Parks and Recreation Department 
and other community partners to clean and beautify 
the stream that runs between the Columbus Engine Plant and the Cummins Technical Center.PLANT GETS CLOSER TO THE ENVIRONmENT
Secretary Kerry observed the production lines and gave remarks to an audience of about  200 on how the U.S. and China can work 
together to make progress on fuel efficiency 
improvements and emissions reductions.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY  
ADVISORY COUNCIL
Cummins gets advice from its Science and 
Technology Advisory Council on developing products that comply with various standards, reduce the Company’s environmental footprint and meet customer demands.
The Council, formed in 1993, has given the 
Company access to some of the country’s leading scientific experts and policymakers from the worlds of academia, industry and 
government. The Council was restructured in 
2010 to make it easier to access a broader group of international specialists and align their expertise with the specific topics being addressed by the Council at a particular time.
 
  The permanent council members are:
 »Chairman Dr. Gerald Wilson, former Dean  of Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology.
 »Dr. Harold Brown, former U.S. Secretary  
of Defense and former President of the California Institute of Technology. 
Other senior international scientists and  engineers are invited to participate as advisors depending on the topic.
The Safety, Environment and Technology 
Committee of the Cummins Board of Directors 
also advises senior leaders and the technical 
leadership of Cummins regarding:
 »Environmental and technological strategies, compliance programs and major projects as 
they relate to the Company and its products.
 »Public policy developments, strategies and 
positions taken by the Company with respect to safety, as well as environmental and technological matters that significantly  
impact the Company or its products.
 »Progress of strategic environmental  
programs and policies.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  61
ACADEmIC PARTNERSHIPS
Cummins partners with hundreds of universities 
around the world to assist the Company with 
research and development. 
For example, in 2013 Cummins partnered  
with the Georgia Institute of Technology to  train Cummins energy leaders to find ways  
to use compressed air more efficiently at 
Cummins facilities.
By participating in the DOE’s Better Buildings, 
Better Plants Challenge program and partnering with the Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Cummins has the opportunity to access expertise 
that otherwise would not exist in-house. 
AmERICAN ENERGY  
INNOVATION COUNCIL
In 2010, then Cummins Chairman and CEO Tim 
Solso joined several key U.S. business leaders serving as founding members of the American Energy Innovation Council (AEIC), a group advocating for development of clean energy to boost the nation’s economic competitiveness. Other members included Microsoft founder  Bill Gates and Jeff Immelt, Chairman and  
CEO of General Electric.
Current Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger 
has continued Cummins’ leadership role in this group. Cummins, like AEIC, believes that 
government and business working together 
to address technological leadership, energy security, economic prosperity and environmental protection is the most effective way to ensure mutual success. 
Cummins also sits on the President’s Council 
of Resources for the Future, the Clean Air Act Advisory Council, and the North American Council for Freight Efficiency.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 
Cummins takes a number of steps to  
report on its environmental performance  to the public and work with other companies  to share best practices. For the past nine years, the Company has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an institutional investor consortium  
that seeks to encourage greater public 
environmental reporting among companies. 
CDP asks companies to provide details on  
their carbon emissions, their response to the 
impact of climate change on their markets  
and regulatory environment, their use of  energy and planning for the future.
In addition, Cummins is a member of the 
Business Roundtable’s S.E.E. (Society, 
Environment and Economy) Change initiative, 
which encourages member companies to lead by example and adopt business strategies and projects that measurably improve society, the 
environment and the economy. 
Cummins has been a regular contributor  
to the Roundtable’s annual sustainability  report, including the 2014 report “Create,  Grow, Sustain: Celebrating Success.”Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  62
CUmmINS PARTICIPATES IN DISCUSSIONS AROUND  
GHG AND fUEL CONSUmPTION REGULATIONS 
Cummins’ reputation as a technology leader has enabled the Company to help 
shape responsible regulations that promote technologies for more efficient 
products with lower greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
Four of the Company’s 10 environmental 
sustainability principles focus on partnerships with legislative and regulatory entities to develop 
sound public policy reducing Cummins’ impact 
on the environment. They are:
 »Help develop responsible regulations
 »Promote technology development
 »Advocate for incentives to accelerate progress
 »Support a balanced global approach
Cummins worked closely with the U.S. government and a variety of stakeholders to develop the Phase 1 rule, the first-ever GHG and 
fuel efficiency standards in the U.S. for medium-
and heavy-duty commercial vehicles. Cummins voluntarily certified its 2013 products earlier than required by the Phase 1 standards, which took effect at the beginning of 2014. 
The Company is now working with regulators to 
build on the success of Phase 1 to help shape 
the next stage of standards known as Phase 2. “The first phase of these regulations provides a strong foundation that recognizes the needs of business while offering clear direction to create 
innovative technologies,” said Brian Mormino, 
Executive Director of Cummins Worldwide Environmental Strategy and Compliance. 
Cummins welcomed a Chinese government delegation in 2013 
wanting to gain best practices in developing fuel efficiency standards to help address energy use and air pollution from  the commercial vehicle market in China.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  63
“Cummins is committed to building on that 
foundation by working with regulators, our customers and other stakeholders on the  
next phase of standards that will lead to  
even greater reductions in greenhouse  gases and fuel consumption,” he added.
A key aspect for Phase 2 is to maintain the  
same regulatory structure with separate 
standards for the engine and the rest of the vehicle. Separate standards are critical for the regulation to achieve environmental and user benefits while recognizing the diversity and 
complexity of the commercial vehicle sector. 
Cummins’ role in developing Phase 1 standards 
and demonstrating the next generation of superior fuel efficiency has not gone unnoticed. 
The Cummins-Peterbilt SuperTruck was 
recognized in February, 2014, during a speech  by U.S. President Barack Obama on Phase  2 GHG and fuel efficiency standards for  medium- and heavy-duty vehicles. 
The President directed the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) and Department of Transportation (DOT) to work together to develop a proposal for the second phase of fuel efficiency 
and GHG standards. The President called 
improving fuel efficiency for commercial vehicles a “win-win-win”: reducing carbon pollution, providing fuel costs savings for business and lowering prices for consumers. 
The announcement was attended by 
administration officials including EPA 
Administrator Gina McCarthy and DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx. Representatives from Cummins, Navistar, Inc.; Eaton; the Peterbilt Motors Co.; 
Daimler AG and Volvo Group were also in 
attendance. Industry associations including the Truck and Engine Manufacturers Association (EMA), American Trucking Associations (ATA) and the Heavy-Duty Fuel Efficiency Leadership group 
and environmentalists and non-governmental 
organizations attended as well.
 Cummins has the unique ability to partner  
with a variety of global stakeholders to help 
shape energy and environmental public policy. 
The Company has dedicated resources to  focus specifically on the policies involving  GHG and fuel efficiency regulations for the Company’s products around the world. 
For example, the Company hosted a number of 
prominent environmental and non-governmental organizations in April, 2013, in Columbus, Indiana, to familiarize them with Cummins’ 
business and technologies and to discuss the 
Phase 2 regulatory structure. Attendees included the Environmental Defense Fund, Natural Resources Defense Council, Union of Concerned Scientists, International Council on 
Clean Transportation, American Council for an 
Energy-Efficient Economy and Northeast States for Coordinated Air Use Management.
 “Cummins values its relationships with 
stakeholders from across the industry 
and environmental spectrum because we know strong regulations result from strong collaboration,” said Jackie Yeager, Director  of Cummins Global Energy Policy. 
Similarly, Cummins welcomed a Chinese 
government delegation in December of 2013 to discuss current and future emissions and fuel efficiency regulations. The delegation 
included officials from the Ministry of Industry 
and Information Technology (MIIT), Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP), Ministry of Finance (MOF), China Internal Combustion Engine Industry Association (CICEIA) and China 
Automotive Technology and Research Center 
(CATARC).
They sought to gain perspective on U.S. 
technologies and best practices in developing 
fuel efficiency standards to help address energy 
use and air pollution from the commercial vehicle market in China.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  64
“Thanks to a partnership between industry 
and my administration, the truck behind me was able to achieve a 75 percent improvement 
in fuel economy,” Obama said during a news 
conference at a grocery chain distribution center in suburban Washington, D.C. “Seventy-five percent! That’s why they call this the SuperTruck. 
It’s impressive. This one right here.”
It was a fitting moment in the four-year 
development of the tractor-trailer, which includes a high tech engine with a waste-heat recovery system, an aerodynamic exterior and other 
energy saving features throughout. 
Done in partnership with the Department of 
Energy (DOE), the truck is designed to show the participating companies, regulators, and customers what’s possible as work now begins to commercialize many of the truck’s features.
The Cummins-Peterbilt SuperTruck made 
headlines in February of 2014 when the two 
companies announced their demonstration tractor-trailer had achieved 10.7 miles per  gallon (mpg) under real-world driving conditions. 
At one time, the thought of developing a truck 
that could meet or exceed 10 mpg when  fully loaded was considered unlikely if not impossible. However, with advances in  engines, aerodynamics and more, SuperTruck 
has proven 10 mpg is indeed attainable. 
SuperTruck averaged a 75 percent increase 
in fuel economy, a 43 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and an 86 percent gain in freight efficiency in 24-hour, head-to- head testing against a 2009 baseline truck –  
all significant improvements.
Cummins partnered with Peterbilt, a division 
of PACCAR, for the SuperTruck project. The project objectives included development and 
demonstration of a highly efficient and clean 
diesel engine with an advanced waste heat recovery system, an aerodynamic tractor and trailer combination, and a lithium ion battery-auxiliary power unit to reduce engine idling. 
The Cummins-Peterbilt SuperTruck uses the 
Peterbilt Model 579 with its best-in-class aerodynamic efficiency. The engine, based  on Cummins industry-leading ISX15, converts ‘SUPER TRUCk’  
mAkES BIG ImPRESSION
When U.S. President Barack Obama called for new 
fuel efficiency standards for medium- and heavy-
duty commercial vehicles earlier this year, he did  
so in front of the concept “SuperTruck” developed  
by Cummins and the Peterbilt Motors Company.DELIVERING 
SUPERIOR RESULTS
Exceed expectations consistently.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  65
exhaust heat into power delivered to the 
crankshaft and has electronic control software that uses route information to optimize fuel use.
The SuperTruck also includes chassis 
refinements, improvements in the aerodynamics and other significant advances in the engine.  And Peterbilt found ways to reduce weight 
throughout the tractor-trailer. 
Eaton Corporation was also part of the 
Cummins-Peterbilt SuperTruck project team, developing a next generation automated transmission that improves fuel efficiency in 
heavy-duty trucks. Eaton’s contribution included 
the design, development and prototyping of an advanced transmission which facilitates reduced engine operating speeds that save fuel. Cummins and Eaton jointly designed shift schedules and other features to yield further improved fuel efficiency. 
This demonstration of the Cummins-Peterbilt 
SuperTruck exceeded DOE goals for freight efficiency, a key trucking metric based on payload weight and fuel efficiency expressed in ton-miles  
per gallon. The SuperTruck achieved an 86 percent 
improvement in freight efficiency as well as the  75 percent fuel economy improvement over  a 24-hour test cycle in December 2013. 
The program goal was a 68 percent freight-
efficiency increase over a 2009 vintage  
baseline vehicle of the same weight  traveling along the same route.
 “We are honored that the Cummins-Peterbilt 
SuperTruck was chosen to be the backdrop for 
President Obama’s announcement,” said Wayne 
Eckerle, Cummins Vice President, Research and Technology. “The SuperTruck clearly demonstrates the technologies that can deliver 
significant fuel efficiency improvements over 
the next decade and beyond as we continue to develop for cost and performance attributes that will make them strong commercial successes.”
Landon Sproull, Peterbilt Chief Engineer, agreed. 
“The work we’re doing on SuperTruck  
is very much in keeping with Peterbilt’s  global reputation for industry-leading design,  innovative engineering and fuel-efficient 
solutions,” he said. “I think it’s been a terrific 
opportunity for us to look into the future and demonstrate what’s possible.”
SuperTruck’s moment in the spotlight didn’t 
end with the president. The truck was also 
displayed in front of the Department of Energy 
in Washington, D.C., where Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz took a tour.
The DOE says if all Class 8 trucks, the big 
trucks typically found on the road today, were 
SuperTrucks, the country would consume nearly 300 million fewer barrels of oil and spend nearly $30 billion less on fuel each year.The Cummins-Peterbilt SuperTruck made headlines in the 
nation’s capital for its ability to save energy and reduce greenhouse gases.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  66
CUmmINS ENERGY SOLUTIONS BUSINESS 
TRANSfORmS LIVES THROUGH ENERGY
Inspiration is not often found in the form of a weed. 
But when a weed can be turned into fuel for 
electricity, it can transform lives. And transforming lives is what inspires people like Andrew P . Stone 
and the Cummins Energy Solutions Business 
(ESB), which he has been a part of since its beginning 15 years ago.
A division of Cummins Power Generation, the 
ESB creates high efficiency cogeneration projects where the generator produces both electricity and usable heat from one fuel source. The business is unique in that it operates as a small company but with global capability. ESB 
cogeneration systems power a sports center in 
China, a landfill in the United Kingdom, a tomato grower in Belgium and numerous other facilities across the world.
At the heart of ESB are Cummins’ lean burn 
generator sets, running on pipeline natural gas or 
alternative fuels like an invasive weed in Africa, an ESB project now under development in Kenya.
Producing energy more efficiently is at the crux 
of ESB: Every 1 megawatt (MW) of cogeneration 
saves an estimated 2,700 tons of carbon dioxide 
(CO
2) a year—and ultimately saves customers  
on their energy costs. 
Since its beginning in 1999, ESB has focused  
on solving issues holistically for customers and 
most, first and foremost, want to save money. But the business can also help customers comply with emission standards, improve the reliability of their power supply and demonstrate their commitment to environmental responsibility.
“We really have changed some people’s lives,” 
said Stone, Cummins Power Generation’s 
Director of Project Companies, reflecting on the ESB’s past. “Some businesses, without cogeneration, would have gone bust. It wasn’t 
just nice to have. It was the difference between 
having a business and not having a business.”
HUmBLE BEGINNINGS
The beginning of the Energy Solutions Business 
is actually rooted in the end of something  
else. When a Cummins-Wärtsilä joint venture 
broke apart in 1999, the Power Generation  gas business was taken back into Cummins,  and ESB developed from that. 
In its early years, ESB did much of its work 
in Europe, where governments like Belgium, Denmark and Holland were the first to recognize and reward high-efficiency electrical generation. Residents of Boringo County in Western Kenya gather stems 
from an invasive weed called Juliflora. Cummins Energy Solutions Business is working with the Kenyan government to use the weed to produce power using a Cummins generator.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  67
From Europe, ESB “project companies”  
sprouted in the South Pacific and the United States, and are now growing in South America 
and Southeast Asia. 
Driving that momentum are rising energy costs 
coupled with improved technologies for energy-efficient systems. In its first year in business, 
ESB’s four-man team delivered $1.4 million in 
sales. Now, sales are over $185 million, and  ESB boasts a multiregional organization of hundreds of employees.
Also called combined heat and power (CHP), 
cogeneration often cuts energy use in half.  
The systems are 85 to 90 percent efficient compared to 50 percent to 55 percent efficiency from a conventional boiler and electrical power 
station. 
mAkING LIVES BETTER
ESB has the know-how and resources  
to develop a variety of solutions, including  
turnkey service, spanning everything from 
planning to installation and even operations.
Stone and his team also work in prime power 
applications, where electrical generators are  the only source of power. This is especially 
needed in parts of the world where the grid  
is unreliable or nonexistent. As natural gas becomes more widely available, lean-burn gas sets from ESB have become increasingly popular as an economical and 
reliable power solution.
Lastly, there are renewable energy sources like 
biogas. Stone is eager for this growing field of technology and its ability to transform lives. 
Methane gas, a byproduct of landfills and water 
treatment processes, can be captured and turned into fuel for onsite cogeneration at these facilities. The big one on the horizon, according to Stone, is gasification of waste products from 
agriculture or wood.
This is where the weed in Africa comes in. 
Prospopis Juliflora was introduced to Kenya in the 1970s as the nation was facing severe 
drought and the death of livestock, a main source 
of livelihood for many. Juliflora was planted to stop the land from turning into desert while providing food for livestock.
The plant grew very quickly. Besides blocking 
native plants from water and sunlight, Juliflora’s 
thorns and pods injured livestock. Thirty years after it was introduced, Juliflora was declared an invasive species in Kenya. 
One of the areas most affected by Juliflora  
is Boringo County in Western Kenya, a place where more than half the population lives in poverty and the main sources of income are farming, fishing and ecotourism. Kenya’s  Juliflora eradication program aims at clearing  
the species by putting it to good use. 
The ESB is working with the Kenyan  
government to use Juliflora to fuel an energy-efficient 2 MW power plant in Boringo County that could produce as much as 8 MW if the 
concept works effectively.
“Besides using the crop to produce electricity, 
the number of jobs we’re creating for harvesting, cleaning, producing and storing the crop means 
work for about 1,500 local Kenyans,” Stone said.
TOP  Cummins’ QSV91 engine will produce electricity  
in Boringo, fueled by Juliflora, an invasive weed. 
BOTTOm  Boringo residents receive training on how  
to harvest Juliflora.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  68
DAIRY AND TOURIST ATTRACTION USES  
COw POwER TO fUEL CUmmINS ENGINES
Some visitors at Fair Oaks Farms are captivated by the birthing  
barn and the chance to see a calf welcomed into the world.
Others can’t forget the sight of 72 cows turning 
slowly on a rotary milking machine while many more wait patiently for their turn.
But with so much happening at the  
sprawling dairy and tourist attraction in  Northwest Indiana, the most amazing thing  may well be the hardest to see.
The dairy is turning the 1.5 million gallons of 
manure that its 30,000 cows produce each  day into natural gas. The gas powers a fleet of more than 40 trucks with Cummins Westport’s ISX12 G natural gas engines that deliver milk 
around the clock to processing plants in  
Indiana, Kentucky and Tennessee.
“Our fleet is really, really pressed hard,” said  
Mark Stoermann, Director of Operations for  
AMP Americas, which partners with Fair Oaks  
A Fair Oaks truck fills up with natural gas at the  
natural gas station on site.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  69
to produce the compressed natural gas, or CNG. 
“We are running 42 trucks, delivering 53 loads  of milk a day. Most trucks average 720 miles  a day so each truck is averaging over  
250,000 miles a year.”
Facing growing concern about the odor from 
its operations, the dairy made a critical decision more than a decade ago to begin experimenting 
with anaerobic digestion. Fair Oaks was looking 
for an alternative to the traditional disposal method of storing manure in pits until conditions were right to apply it on area fields.
Today, it has an elaborate system to get its  
waste to digesters where the gas is produced 
and the dairy is garnering attention from the likes of The New York Times and sustainability experts around the country (to see a Cummins video on how the farm works, go to http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mkF6nHKxJ5o).
The dairy had been using the smaller  
Cummins Westport 8.9 liter ISL G engine  for most of 2013 while it waited for the new  12 Gs, knowing the engine was undersized  
for pulling payloads of close to 80,000 pounds 
when its tankers are full of milk. The new, larger engines are designed for the kind of demands  the operation puts on its trucks. 
The dairy estimates it is taking 2 million gallons of 
diesel fuel off the road annually by converting the 
1.5 million gallons of manure its cows produce daily into fuel. The United States Department  of Energy says Fair Oaks is the largest natural 
gas fleet in the country using agricultural waste 
as its primary fuel source.
Fair Oaks wants to show dairies and similar 
businesses around the country that converting waste to fuel is a viable and sustainable option.
 “There are a lot of industries in the United States 
right now that are looking at CNG and there are a lot of other industries that have waste streams that could be used in anaerobic digestion,” 
Stoermann said. “So yes, the simple answer  
to your question is this is a model that can  be reproduced all over the United States.”Cows on the milking machine at Fair Oaks.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  70
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CUmmINS EmPLOYEES  
SET NEw RECORD wHILE mAkING A DIffERENCE  AROUND THE wORLD
Cummins employees invested a record number of 
hours in community service in 2013, helping high 
school students master math in South Africa,  
teaching young women about thermodynamics  
in Poland, and helping people with disabilities get  
job skills in Minnesota, to name just a few projects.
Total hours for the year in community 
improvement activities increased from  222,617 in 2012, the previous record, to  
308,783 in 2013 – a nearly 40 percent increase 
and the new record for the Company’s Every Employee Every Community (EEEC) program.
The percentage of employees participating  
in EEEC activities increased from 63 percent  
in 2012 to 67 percent in 2013. Under the  EEEC initiative, employees can work for at  least four hours on a community improvement  project on company time and more if they  have the approval of their supervisor.
“I’m very happy that we had a number of projects  
around the world last year that made a real 
difference in people’s lives,” said Mark Levett, Vice President – Corporate Responsibility and  Chief Executive Officer of the Cummins Foundation. 
“I am thrilled that the participation rate is up, 
especially after we were pleased to add joint venture employees in this count,” he said.  
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYCORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY
Serve and improve the communities  
in which we live.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  71
“We still managed to attain an increase,  
which is terrific.”
The hours invested weren’t the only record set 
by Cummins employees. They also removed a 
record amount of greenhouse gas emissions, 19,000 tons, as part of the Company’s fifth Environmental Challenge (page 73). In the 
Challenge, employee teams compete to 
be selected one of the 15 best community environmental projects across Cummins.
DEEPLY ROOTED
The Every Employee Every Community initiative 
started in 2005 when Cummins was looking for a 
way to celebrate an ethics award.  The program has grown into a Company favorite that leaders feel helps attract the kind of employee Cummins needs to be successful.
For more than 50 years, Cummins has believed 
building stronger communities helps build stronger markets for Cummins products, dating back to visionary CEO J. Irwin Miller, who helped 
organize Dr. Martin Luther King’s 1963 March on 
Washington, D.C. 
Corporate Responsibility is one of the 
Company’s six core values, calling on Cummins and its employees to “serve and improve the 
communities in which we live.”
 The Company has more than 200 employee-led 
Community Involvement Teams that organize the majority of the EEEC projects. The Company 
encourages employees to focus their efforts 
on three global priority areas where they can especially add knowledge, skills and passion: 
 »Education
 »Environment
 »Social justice/Equality of opportunity
In 2013, EEEC projects covered an incredible variety and scope from an effort to create a model village in Nandal, India, (page 92) to a 
program in Santiago, Chile, designed to give 
young offenders a second chance (page 86);  
from a program to teach vocational skills to students in Nigeria (page 88) to an initiative  
to provide library books to disadvantaged 
students in China (page 90).
Employees, however, routinely say they get much more out of the projects than they give in time.
“We are privileged to be able to improve  
people’s lives in meaningful and innovative ways,” 
said Subramanian Ravichandran, Cummins Corporate Responsibility Director in India.
Cummins employees reroute a trail threatened  
by erosion at a park in Indianapolis, Indiana.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  72
UNITED w AY
It was also a record year for United Way 
donations. Cummins employees in North  
America set another record for giving to the 
agency in 2013, raising nearly $2.8 million,  about a 4 percent increase over 2012 –  also a record year.
Three Cummins locations reported 100 percent 
participation rates – Clovis, New Mexico., Elkhart, 
Indiana, and Miramar, Florida.
“I am incredibly proud of how our Cummins 
employees came through for the many fine agencies that depend on the United Way,”  
said Levett.
The Cummins Foundation matches pledges 
dollar for dollar, so social service organizations  
 in the communities where Cummins employees  
live and work will receive more than $5.5 million. More than 8,500 employees contributed to the 
2013 campaign.
Outside North America, Cummins has launched 
matching gift programs in India, China and parts of Asia Pacific over the last five years. Through voluntary payroll deductions, Cummins 
employees in these regions are also able to 
support local non-profits whose causes are meaningful to them.
SIGNIfICANT PARTNERSHIPS /
PHILANTHROPY
Cummins continued financial support for  
several significant partnerships in 2013-2014, addressing a range of concerns.
 Cummins Power Generation is working to expand 
the assistive technology program it started to  
the Courage Kenny Rehabilitation Institute in 
Minneapolis, Minnesota at additional locations around the world (page 80).
The Company also continues its partnership with 
the Cummins College of Engineering for Women 
in Pune and Nagpur, India, which serves women 
who have long been under-represented in the field of engineering.
Cummins supports these initiatives and others 
through its businesses as well as the Cummins 
Foundation and related foundations, such as the Cummins India Foundation (page 96).
Cummins employees plant trees at a  
Corporate Responsibility project in Wuxi, China.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  73
CUmmINS CHALLENGE PAYS Off  
fOR THE ENVIRONmENT
Cummins’ fifth Environmental Challenge was another major success  
as employee-led community service projects in 2013 set a record  
for removing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
The Challenge is a Corporate Responsibility 
initiative where the Company’s more than  200 Community Involvement Teams compete  
to have their projects chosen one of the  
15 best environmental efforts of the year. 
More than 11,000 employees invested more than 
60,000 hours in 2013, reducing 19,000 tons of 
GHGs, more than four times the reduction from 
last year’s contest. 
The GHG reduction is equivalent to taking  
3,950 vehicles off the road for a year and conserving 2 million gallons of gasoline.
The 15 projects judged to be the best win 
$10,000 each from the Cummins Foundation  to be spent on the community not-for-profit or non-governmental organization of their choice.
Here’s a look at three projects singled out for 
special recognition:A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY  TAkES SHAPE IN CHINA
It sounded like the beginning of a recipe,  
but when Cummins employees added straw  
to mushrooms, the result was success.  And for farmers in China, that success  translates into more money and less pollution.
Due to rapid economic development, air pollution 
has become a significant concern for the more 
than 1.3 billion people who call China home.  A common farming practice often contributes to this environmental problem.
Cummins employees in Shanghai came up with 
a unique solution and submitted their work as part of Cummins’ 2013 Environmental Challenge. Their Golden Straw project was named one of  15 winners from around the world and earned  a special recognition award for Best 
Environmental Impact.
In provinces throughout China, farmers are 
struggling with how to dispose of agricultural waste following a harvest. The cost and extra 
manpower required to recycle the waste often 
leads farmers to burn their excess straw instead. 
This results in significant health hazards and 
environmental dangers. China produces 700 million tons of waste straw each year, 97 percent 
of which is burned, releasing 380 million tons of 
carbon emissions into the atmosphere. 
In Shanghai, air pollution is an urgent quality-of-
life issue. Knowing this, the project team used 
the business-problem solving tool Six Sigma 
to narrow its initial focus to air pollution and BEST ENVIRONmENTAL ImPACTAwARD  
wINNERCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  74
ecological issues. Eighty-three employees  
from five Cummins entities then devised a  way to help farmers reuse excess straw in  
a cost-efficient manner that ultimately results  
in increased income. 
mARkET fOR mUSHROOmS
Partnering with a non-governmental organization 
(NGO), they helped local farmers collect and 
store excess straw from harvests in makeshift shelters they helped build. The straw was then reused as fertilizer to cultivate mushrooms, which in turn were sold by the farmers to supplement 
their income. This cycle time lasted six months.
The NGO, Enactus China, creates global 
sustainability through the positive power  of business. Enactus says it works with  
1,600 universities in 39 countries, involving  
more than 60,000 students a year, and is supported by hundreds of leading companies.The five Cummins entities joined forces in 2012 as a way to combine resources in Shanghai 
in the hopes of delivering measurable impact 
and sustainable project results. The Shanghai sites involved are Cummins Filtration Co. Ltd., Cummins Engine Trading and Service Co. Ltd., 
Cummins China Investment Co. Ltd. Shanghai 
branch, Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co. Ltd. and Cummins Inc. U.S.A. Shanghai Rep. China.
One year and more than 340 employee volunteer 
hours later, the results are impressive. Six 
thousand tons of straw have been collected from 
local farms. Three hundred tons of mushrooms have been harvested and sold for a total of $120,000 U.S. dollars, all going to improve the 
farmers’ standard of living. And perhaps most 
importantly, 10,800 tons of carbon emissions have been reduced.
“This was a rewarding project for everyone 
involved and helped turn waste into treasure,” 
said project leader and Community Involvement 
Team leader Chunyan Wu.Cummins employees and local farmers store excess straw in 
shelters designed to grow and harvest mushrooms. The project was one of three receiving special recognition in the 2013 Environmental Challenge.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  75
GROwING RESULTS
Part of their success stems from the initial 
groundwork laid by Cummins employees.  
After selecting this project, they visited an 
established model in a different district of Shanghai to learn more. Involving university students from the NGO ensured there would  
be a group with an understanding of the  
process that can help spread their knowledge.
Sustainability is key. Now that the farmers  
have learned the skills and steps required,  they can carry on the progress and hopefully 
continue making a profit each year. 
Plans are in place to implement this project in 
four other areas of the city over the next eight years. The project team intends to work closely 
with farmers and the NGO to continue teaching 
the skills required to cultivate the mushrooms, thereby further reducing the carbon footprint. 
“Partnering with Cummins on this project was 
a great experience,” said Claire Hu, Corporate 
Development Manager at Enactus China.  
“It was a win-win project in that it established a creative and sustainable way to reduce air pollution and increased the annual income  
for our local farming communities.”wATERING A NEw CROP Of STUDENTS 
It all started with a letter. And it ended with  
a teaching moment for students at the Zhuji Middle School.
The principal of Zhuji Middle School contacted 
Cummins Recon China (CXMC) to request help 
regarding a serious water problem at the school. Located in Xiangyang, China, the school serves more than 1,600 teachers and students who rely on drinking water from a 36-meter deep 
groundwater well. The well water was unsafe, 
causing health problems for many at the school.
Led by Peng Shao, Health, Safety and 
Environment Supervisor, a project team  
from Cummins came together to develop  
a safe water solution for Zhuji.“We had monthly brainstorming discussions, and each team member had different responsibilities, like contacting different resources, designing 
layout or planning the process for the project,” 
said Dengfeng Jiang, Product Engineer and Community Involvement Team Leader.
The team used the business problem-solving tool 
Six Sigma to select the project theme and scope, 
and visited the school to conduct water quality research and build water monitoring stations.
Eventually construction began at Zhuji to install 
water purification equipment, including laying  
100 meter-long pipes. A before-and-after 
comparison of water quality from the well  was tested after the equipment was installed,  to ensure the water was safe for Zhuji teachers 
and students to drink. The equipment also 
monitored water flow capacity to help ensure  that water was not wasted.
Cummins employees take a break during a work  
project at of Zhuji Middle School in Xiangyang, China.BEST NEw ENTRYAwARD  
wINNER
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  76
OTHER PROJECT BENEfITS
The quest for water safety did not end with a 
purifier. The project team also promoted water 
protection in the community, visiting a sewage 
treatment plant and holding a ceremony where Zhuji students and teachers took an oath to protect local water bodies.
Cummins employees distributed material  
on water protection in coordination with the Water Bureau, Education Bureau and the non-governmental organization Green Han River. The middle school plans to include a new 
environmental course with specially  
developed textbooks.
As a result of this project:
 »7.8 million liters of water will be  
purified every year.
 »1.3 million liters of water will be  
saved every year.
 »More than 3,000 community members received environmental awareness information 
on the importance of water protection.
 »The project benefited from strong  
leadership support, driven by General  Manager Henry Peng.
 “Henry Peng visited Zhuji with us multiple times and engaged leadership to support this project as much as possible, to engage employees and 
review the activities,” said Shao.
PLANS TO ExPAND
In addition to being selected as a 2013 
Environmental Challenge winner, the project also 
received the distinction of Best New Entry. The 
first-time CXMC project team already has plans to use their $10,000 Environmental Challenge grant to further the project’s reach.
“We will use the grant funding for continued 
improvements to the water ecosystem at Zhuji 
Middle School, including a water saving device,” said Jiang. “We will also look to help other schools around Zhuji out of an unhealthy  
water situation.”
The success of the project at Zhuji Middle School 
has attracted the attention of the local Water Bureau, which will help spread this project to other schools in the area.
“There are 57 schools around Zhuji that 
experience the same water safety issues,” said Shao. “If we can improve the situation at Zhuji, it can be copied by others to impact more than 
25,000 people in Xiangyang.” 
CUmmINS EmPLOYEES SHOw  THE POwER Of COLLABORATION
Employees at Cummins’ Korea Distribution 
Business Unit have been cleaning the Cheonheung stream since 2009, removing bottles, cans, paper and other household trash 
four times a year. It was a good project, but 
Community Involvement Team leaders wondered if they could do something to make it great.
In 2012, Andy Choi launched a project using the 
business problem solving tool Six Sigma to look 
at how to get more companies involved in the effort so more of the stream could be covered. He would end up drafting a blueprint for officials at Cheonan City Hall to recruit more companies 
to join the cleanup.
The “1 Company, 1 Stream” program was born. 
Today, seven companies have taken areas of the stream to clean, working independently 
and following their own schedules. More 
trash is being removed from the banks of the Cheonheung than ever before.
“The environment around the stream is visually 
much better,” Choi said, “and community 
residents are grateful for our activity.”BUILDING COmmUNITY COALITIONSAwARD  
wINNERCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  77
The effort to improve the environment around 
Cheonan was one of 15 winners in the 2013 Cummins Environmental Challenge. The 
project was also one of three receiving special 
recognition. The Korea project was honored  for its efforts to build community coalitions.
BUILDING RELATIONSHIP CRITICAL
Choi said employees were surprised to be one of 
the winning CITs in the Challenge. It was the first 
time the team had submitted an application.
Developing a relationship with city officials was 
critical to the success of the project, Choi said. The city was looking for a way to increase 
volunteerism in the area and it was in the best 
position to reach out to other companies. 
Cummins approached city officials the first week 
of September in 2012 and the seven participating companies gathered less than two weeks  
later to talk about the possibilities.The city would ultimately like to see more 
volunteer-led activities around the city. Choi 
believes that’s possible now that people from the 
participating companies know each other better, and have some experience working together.
Choi said the CIT learned that many companies 
feel a responsibility for the environment in South 
Korea, especially near their operations and near the homes of their employees.
The Cummins CIT in South Korea is going 
to extend its reach into the community with 
the $10,000 grant it received for being an 
Environmental Challenge winner. The money must go to a charitable group of the CIT’s choice and the team has selected the Cheonan Seobu 
Free Meal Support Center, a non-governmental 
organization that works with the homeless.Cleaning the stream is a longtime project of the Cummins 
Korea DBU Community Involvement Team. But in 2013, the team got other companies in the city involved.The Environmental Challenge has had a  
significant impact since it was created in 2009  to celebrate the Company’s 90th birthday.
Nearly 43,500 employees have devoted a  
combined 247,000 hours to improving the environment since the Challenge was created.
Employees from around the world have  
completed 485 projects, which together have  reduced more than 28,500 tons of greenhouse  
gas emissions. This is the equivalent of taking  
4,750 cars off the road. 
These kind of good deeds will keep happening.  
The Cummins Foundation has decided to  
fund the Challenge for another five years,  
paying for the 15 $10,000 grants that go to  each winning team for use by the non-profit  or non-governmental group of their choice. CHALLENGE RENEwED fOR fIVE YEARSCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  78
ENVIRONmENTAL CHALLENGE wINNERS 
Here’s a quick look at all of the 15 winning projects  
in the 2013 Environmental Challenge competition. 
ENVIRONmENTAL PROTECTION THROUGH w ATERSHED mANAGEmENT AND REDUCING DEfORESTATION  Manjarsumbha, India
Cummins employees worked with a local village to provide improved water access and a biogas alternative to wood burning stoves.
wATER CONSERVATION THROUGH THE TRANSfORmATION Of USED OIL TO BIODIESEL  San Luis Potosí, Mexico
The project raised awareness in the community on the importance of water conservation and the negative effects of mismanaging used vegetable oil.
“CATCH THEm YOUNG” – CREATING ENVIRONmENTAL A wARENESS AmONG SCHOOLCHILDREN  Across India
Employees created awareness among thousands of students in schools across India on the importance of preserving the environment.ECO wATER SYSTEm PROJECT  Xiangyang, China
This project promoted safe and sustainable drinking water at a local middle school through development of water purification equipment,  
and also created awareness on the importance of water conservation.
GOLDEN STRA w PROJECT  Shanghai, China
This project encouraged the reuse, rather than burning, of straw as an organic fertilizer to reduce air pollution and increase income for local farmers.PROTECTING THE LARGEST w ATER SOURCE Of THE Y ANGTzE RIVER  Xiangyang City, China
Cummins employees worked with community partners and used Six Sigma tools to protect the Han River,  
including an awareness campaign and tree planting to reduce carbon emissions and conserve soil and water.
mODEL VILLAGE - NANDAL TRANSfORmATION  Phaltan, India
The project implemented improvements at Nandal Village, including watershed management technology that serves  
as a permanent solution to ensure sustained availability of drinking and irrigation water.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  79
COmmUNITY PARTNERSHIP fOR ENVIRONmENTAL CARE PROGRAm  Cheonan, Korea
This project used Six Sigma tools to create a new process for environmental protection in coordination with other 
local companies and the government.
TOwARDS zERO GARBAGE IN BANER wARD, PUNE  Pune, India
Employees replicated the Zero Garbage model in Baner Ward to establish a waste segregation and collection 
mechanism, as well as eco-friendly waste processing.
TOwARDS w ATER NEUTRALITY AROUND kOTHRUD, PUNE PLANT  Pune, India
This project took steps toward water neutrality at the Kothrud plant to help maintain water resources in Pune and 
facilitate water conservation in the community and within Cummins.
CHINESE fUTURE w ATER SAVING IN SCHOOL PROJECT  Wuxi, China
Cummins employees spread best practices for water conservation to schoolchildren, who in turn can influence 
their families, and reached thousands of people in the community.
CREATE SAfE AND HEALTHY ENVIRONmENT fOR ELDERLY  Pune, India
Employees created a healthier environment at an elderly home by promoting water and energy conservation, in 
addition to developing an organic vegetable garden and installing a smokeless cooking stove.
CLEAN ENERGY SOLUTIONS fOR f ARmING COmmUNITIES  Stamford, U.K.
Employees designed a micro-grid solution to help a local farm generate electricity using renewable energy and 
energy-efficient generator sets to reduce the farm’s carbon footprint.
CLEAN LAkES, GREEN COmmUNITIES  Wuhan, China
Employees addressed water pollution in Taizi Lake, including collecting and analyzing samples for water quality, 
as well as forming an action plan to target the pollution source.
PARk mORALES ENVIRONmENT EDUCATION PROGRAm  San Luis Potosí, Mexico
This project improved water conditions at Park Morales’ lake through a filter system that treats 6,000 cubic 
meters of water each week, and educated the community on the importance of environmental balance.Here are some photos from winning projects in India, the United Kingdom and Mexico.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  80
CUmmINS POwER GENERATION ASSISTS PEOPLE 
wITH DISABILITIES AROUND THE wORLD
Cummins Power Generation’s effort to build  
on a successful community service project in  its headquarters community of Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, is taking many different forms  
around the world. But the goal is the same: helping people with disabilities. 
“Cummins Power Generation is a unique 
company because we have a global footprint, 
we have a global presence and our capabilities are globally dispersed,” said Cummins’ Vice CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY // LEADER LED PROJECTS
Cummins Power Generation President Tony Satterthwaite 
presents a toy to a child in a wheel chair at the Wuxi Welfare House in January, 2014. Cummins Generator Technologies has 
long supported the facility which provides therapy, rehabilitation 
and education to abandoned and disabled children in Wuxi.
Cummins employees in Mexico are designing a 
wheelchair for children with muscular dystrophy.  
In India, they are working on a device to help  
people with disabilities board buses. And 
employees in China are developing crutches  
with sensors to help visually impaired people.LEADER LED PROJECTS
Cummins has found the best community 
service projects include significant  
leadership involvement. On the  
following pages, see two great examples.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  81
President Tony Satterthwaite, president of the 
business unit. “What excites me about the global nature of this initiative is our ability to bring 
Cummins Power Generation’s capabilities to bear 
all over the world, in all of our communities.”
Since 2006, Cummins Power Generation 
employees in Fridley, Minnesota, have been  
using their engineering skills to help people with 
disabilities. They volunteer their time to modify, design and create technologies so Minnesota residents with physical challenges can operate computers and other electronic devices,  
including toys for children.
Through a core team of engineers and  
by engaging other Cummins employees, the initiative has modified over 1,500 technologies  
for adults, teens and children who are clients  
at the Courage Kenny Rehabilitation Institute.  In 2012 alone, 193 employees contributed  more than 1,200 hours to the effort.
 
 Twelve additional Cummins Power Generation 
locations have now also launched Corporate Responsibility projects around assistive 
technology as part of the effort to expand  
the project globally. 
Power Generation leaders facilitate best  
practice sharing, provide both advice and 
financial support, and recognize outstanding 
work, affirming that Corporate Responsibility  is important to the Company. 
Satterthwaite has played a key role in taking  
the project global. He says he wants to maintain 
the grassroots spirit that helped make the 
Minneapolis project so successful, but with the support that Cummins Power Generation can bring to bear to remove obstacles and help 
initiatives reach their full potential.
So employees might focus on adapting toys  
in one location while workers in other places might redesign wheelchairs and crutches or  any number of other things.“We will do different things in China than  we do in Brazil and India, and that’s OK,” Satterthwaite said. “What we really want  
to do is make a difference, have an impact,  
(and) leave a footprint in this area.” 
Cummins Power Generation’s interest in assistive 
technology can be traced back to 2005 when 
then business unit President Tom Linebarger 
toured what at that time was called the Courage Center for people with disabilities in Minneapolis.
Linebarger, now Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of Cummins, saw a need that matched 
the capabilities of the Company’s workforce. 
He asked a member of his staff to create an engineering team to look into adapting toys and electronic devices for people with physical 
challenges at the center.
The partnership took off and has been repeatedly 
recognized as one of the best examples of what can happen when employee skills are leveraged to address a community need.“wE wILL DO DIffERENT THINGS IN CHINA THAN wE DO  
IN BRAzIL AND INDIA, AND THAT’S Ok. wHAT wE REALLY 
wANT TO DO IS mAkE A DIffERENCE, HAVE AN ImPACT , 
(AND) LEAVE A fOOTPRINT IN THIS AREA.” 
TONY SATTERTHw AITE 
CUMMINS POWER GENERATION PRESIDENTCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  82
Satterthwaite became the leader at Cummins 
Power Generation in 2008 after Linebarger  was named President and Chief Operating  
Officer for all of Cummins.
Over the next two years, Satterthwaite studied 
what made community service projects successful, coming to the conclusion that  
four elements were critical to the business  
unit’s work on assistive technology:
 »There was a real societal need.
 »The initiative utilized employee skills and talents.
 »Leaders were actively engaged in  providing support and resources.
 »The project tapped into the unique  capabilities of Cummins Power Generation.
He asked two top members of his leadership team to study “where could we take this?” They came to the conclusion that the same elements existed in many communities with Cummins Power Generation facilities around the world.By the end of 2013, projects were underway in the China, India, South America, the United Kingdom and elsewhere.
“Tony and the leadership team at Cummins 
Power Generation are fantastic role models  of the Company’s Corporate Responsibility core value,” said Diane Peterson, the former 
Corporate Responsibility Leader in Cummins 
Power Generation who took a new position in Human Resources in 2014. 
“They take the time to understand the initiatives, 
clear obstacles and offer advice,” she added. 
“They motivate and give our locations around  
the world the freedom to pursue their passions.”
Satterthwaite says the business unit is on a 
journey and he’s not really sure where it will end.
“What I’d like to be able to say, looking back, 
is that we made a big difference in the area of assistive technology through the capabilities of our Company, the energy and efforts of our people, and the focus of our business.”
Cummins employees work on assistive technology projects for 
the effort’s original partner, the Courage Kenny Rehabilitation Institute in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  83
A GRANDmOTHER’S COOkING LAUNCHES  
GLOBAL ENVIRONmENTAL PROJECT
Srikanth Padmanabhan distinctly remembers the smell of the wood his 
grandmother used to cook with, the black smoke that would fill the air 
whenever she started a fire and the soot that lined the kitchen wall.  
But what stands out today when he thinks about his grandmother  
is the sound of her chronic coughing. 
Padmanabhan, Vice President and General 
Manager for Cummins Emission Solutions (CES), grew up in Chennai, India, the country’s 
fourth-largest city. His maternal grandparents 
lived in a village nearby and he would often visit them during school breaks in part to enjoy his grandmother’s delicious cooking.
“I had no clue why she would cough,” he said. 
“But then I learned about clean cook stoves  and I realized that the smoke coming out of  my grandmother’s fire pit actually impacts  you and that’s why she coughed.”
 
At the design competition launch in 2012 in Columbus, Srikanth 
Padmanabhan describes growing up in India and the reasons  clean cook stoves were chosen as the first global Corporate Responsibility project for Cummins Emission Solutions.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  84
His grandmother would go on to live until 97, 
but Padmanabhan remembers that everyone in the village, for a very long time, used firewood. 
Statistics show that many people who depend  
on wood-burning cook stoves have not been  as fortunate as his grandmother. 
According to the Global Alliance for Clean 
Cookstoves, daily exposure to the harmful  
smoke from traditional cooking practices is  one of the leading causes of death around  the world, and one of the least publicized.  Four million premature deaths each year result 
from smoke inhalation from traditional cook 
stoves and open fires. Women and young children are the most affected.Padmanabhan and the CES Business team wanted to make a difference with a vision for  a global corporate responsibility project that  
put employee skills to work on a problem  
closely related to the products they design  and manufacture.
“Being a division that produces products  
that reduce harmful engine emissions around  
the globe, we felt that it was appropriate that  we should focus on the environment,” Padmanabhan said.
CES employees zeroed in on indoor air  
pollution resulting from poorly ventilated  
cook stoves. Padmanabhan shared with his  CES colleagues his experiences and his vision  for a global corporate responsibility project. 
Together, they brainstormed ways to make  
their efforts sustainable. 
A NATURAL fIT
Padmanabhan and his leadership team  
quickly came to the conclusion that focusing  
on clean cook stoves was a natural fit.  
It addressed a critical global need and  aligned well with CES’ business focus  to reduce emissions from engines.
So began Project S.T.E.A.M. – Standards, 
Testing (and design), Education, Application and Monitoring – CES’ first global Corporate Responsibility project. A clean cook stove  design competition was launched in August, 
2012, in Columbus, Indiana. 
Teams from CES locations around the world  
were tasked with designing a new or improved, clean-burning cook stove along with a marketing 
plan including its unique characteristics. 
Twenty-seven teams submitted concepts from 
multiple Cummins sites. The top five teams,  from Cummins facilities in Germany, India and  the United States, were selected as finalists 
during an extensive judging process held in 2013.
Cummins employees, including experts in 
combustion, technology and environmental strategy, as well as a former cook stove business 
owner, judged all of the project submissions. 
Prototypes of the top five designs were built 
at the manufacturing facility of Prakti Design in Chennai. The Cummins’ designs were then shipped to Maharana Pratap University of 
Agriculture and Technology in Udaipur, India,  
for testing. 
A group of engineers from Cummins Research 
and Technology India Ltd., joined forces to form 
Team EcoFlame and were selected as the winner 
of the design competition in late 2013. 
A Cummins employee works on his team’s cook stove  
design in Columbus, Indiana.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  85
EcoFlame’s design not only meets all Indian 
government requirements for thermal efficiency and emission of both particulate matter and 
carbon monoxide, but it is also able to lower 
particulate emissions by a factor of four compared to current Prakti stoves. 
Prakti, one of the world’s top cook stove 
manufacturers, partnered with Cummins in  
the competition and believes it generated  many ideas that could have practical  applications for future cook stoves.
“The Prakti/Cummins partnership proved to be 
a great success,” said Mouhsine Serrar, co-
founder and CEO of Prakti Design. “Prakti would like to thank all the participants for a wonderful effort and the significant contribution to [our] 
technology road map for the future.”
EcoFlame’s stove will now go into production  
as part of the business unit’s partnership  with Prakti. 
“What we liked best about the competition was 
that it compelled us to think beyond stereotype 
boundaries,” said EcoFlame Team Leader Ambarish Khot. “It united us to engage our technical expertise for social welfare.” 
 THE NExT CHALLENGE
Padmanabhan is pleased with how the project 
has turned out.
“The idea of building the prototypes and testing 
them at a university in India, and the whole exercise being global, was novel and elegant,” he said. “I am enormously pleased at the outcome.” 
The new stoves will be tested in villages in India 
and China that are near Cummins facilities where employees can help with the adoption. In addition, CES will work with EARTH University in Costa Rica, which teaches sustainable agriculture 
to its students from around the world, to make 
those students familiar with the stoves. 
Other projects to design better cook stoves have 
faltered at this point, unable to overcome years 
of tradition around cooking over an open flame 
without proper ventilation.
But Padmanabhan is enthusiastic, believing  
the project can build on community outreach efforts taking place at Cummins locations  
around the world.
“We are going to show that we can actually make 
a difference,” he says as he thinks back to the woman who helped inspire it all. “We can use our 
collective ingenuity to do something really terrific.”Members of Team EcoFlame, the winning team in the cook stove 
competition from Cummins Research and Technology India Ltd., gather around their winning entry.
“wHAT wE LIkED BEST  
ABOUT THE COmPETITION 
wAS THAT IT COmPELLED 
US TO THINk BEYOND 
STEREOTYPE BOUNDARIES.  
IT UNITED US TO ENGAGE  
OUR TECHNICAL ExPERTISE 
fOR SOCIAL wELf ARE.”
AmBARISH kHOT
ECOFLAME TEAM LEADERCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  86
REINVENTING YOUTH THAT LOST THEIR w AY
Reinventarse, which is the Spanish translation for 
“reinvent,” was started in 2011 at the Komatsu-Cummins distributor as a social rehabilitation 
program for young people who get in trouble  
with the law.
“The program began with 12 young people from 
northern Santiago, who had each committed a 
crime and been sentenced on probation,” said 
Alejandra Gonzalez, Community Involvement Team Leader for Cummins Chile. “Reinventarse aims to break the cycle of crime and reintegrate these young people back into society.”The program is built on five pillars:
 »Education through high school and  technical training, including basic  
mechanics, interpretation of plans,  
welding and operation of heavy machinery.
 »Support to strengthen and develop  family connections.
 »Personal development to foster social  skills and resilience.
 »Job assistance to support long-term  economic stability.
 »Outdoor activities and social meetings to 
increase participants’ cultural, social and 
intellectual capital.
Eligible offenders have completed schooling through eighth grade, possess a clean record  
for sexual crimes or drug addictions and are at 
least 18 years old.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY // GLOBAL REACH
GLOBAL REACH
Cummins is committed to seeing that its 
Corporate Responsibility value has  
a global reach. On the following pages,  
find four examples.
Participants in the Reinventarse program are mentored by 
employees from Komatsu-Cummins to help them learn job  and social skills.Everyone deserves the opportunity to  
remake themselves, including juvenile offenders.  
This is the driving belief behind the Reinventarse 
program in Santiago, Chile.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  87
Komatsu-Cummins employees are an essential 
part of the training process. In addition to teaching many of the technical modules, 
employees serve as mentors for young  
offenders throughout the entire process.
“Employees act as a positive role model who  
the young offenders see to be valued by society,” 
said Gonzalez. “They support the youths in four areas: life and working habits, extracurricular activities, instrumental and evaluative networks 
(to provide advice and guidance about their 
future) and personal and educational support.”
Employees even instill a sense of giving back 
in the young offenders, engaging them in community involvement activities such as Kids 
Day where the youth interacted with children in 
need, and created and performed a play.
To date, 35 young offenders have successfully 
completed the Reinventarse program.  From this, 25 students have joined the workforce and continue to maintain their positions. Sixteen were hired by Komatsu-Cummins.
“Reinventarse graduates have gone on to work in 
different positions, such as mechanical assistant, welder assistant, forklift operator or even 
administrative assistant,” Gonzalez said.
After evaluation of the program’s success  
and just two years after its implementation,  the Reinventarse Foundation was formed.
“The purpose of the Reinventarse Foundation 
is to consolidate programmatic efforts to battle delinquency, while also inviting other companies to join this effort,” said Christopher Lathrop, Executive Director of the foundation. “Companies 
can partner to provide an economic contribution 
to the program, as well as offering potential employment to graduates.”Companies that have joined in support include entities from the Komatsu-Cummins group, 
ENDESA group and FAVIMA Enterprises.
Next, the Reinventarse Foundation looks to 
increase the number of companies within their network to provide jobs for program graduates and sponsor employee volunteer opportunities. 
Additionally, the program will expand into new 
territories. The goal is to add at least 10 new companies and reach an additional 30 young offenders by the end of 2014.
“We hope to share Reinventarse’s intervention 
model with other public policy programs and all who wish to collaborate on this important issue,” Lathrop said. 
The Reinventarse program was recently 
recognized for its innovation by the Chilean North 
American Chamber of Commerce in its 2013 Good Entrepreneurial Citizen awards ceremony.
The results look promising. Seven out of  
10 young offenders who are hired maintain  
their working positions after six months  post-graduation. Reinventarse follows up  with graduates and, according to Lathrop,  after the first year recidivism is not a concern.
“None of the 35 youths who have gone through  
the program have returned to delinquency,” he said.Reinventarse graduates like Kevin Pizarro, right, have found 
employment with companies like Cummins. Many Komatsu Cummins employees volunteer with the program, including Ricardo Antonio Molina Sepulveda who served as a sponsor 
and is now Kevin’s manager.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  88
UPDATE: BUILDING SUPPORT fOR BRINGING 
TECHNICAL EDUCATION TO STUDENTS
Partnerships are a key part of TEC: Technical Education for Communities. 
Building alliances with businesses, government and non-governmental 
organizations is critical to TEC’s work addressing the global skills gap.  
In 2013, another major milestone was reached in the program –  
an extensive TEC business coalition has formed in Lagos, Nigeria.
TEC is the Cummins initiative targeting the 
technical skills gap through local vocational education programs. It started at sites across 
the globe, including Morocco, Turkey, China 
and India. The coalition in Nigeria marks the first agreement between Cummins and other organizations to support TEC. 
TEC delivers a standardized education program 
and tools to help education partners develop market-relevant curriculum, teacher training, career guidance and the practical experience needed by students. 
Students learn at the Institute for Industrial Technology in 
Lagos, Nigeria, where the most extensive coalition has formed so far as part of Cummins’ program called TEC – Technical Education for Communities. 
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  89
While TEC’s standardized program includes a 
global reach, coalitions are essential to helping local schools identify gaps in their existing 
programs and improve education outcomes  
in the community.
The TEC partnership in Nigeria brings together 
businesses and non-governmental organizations 
including the Institute European of Cooperation 
and Development (IECD), Schneider Electric and the manufacturing company CFAO as well as Cummins to support a school partner, the Institute for Industrial Technology (IIT).
IIT was a natural school partner for TEC.  
The school was selected because of its successful track record and strong management team. To help augment IIT’s solid foundation,  
the TEC coalition is working first to supplement 
the school’s tools and equipment. The partners are also planning for the upcoming school  year, facilitating student recruitment and curriculum improvements.
“Establishing a strong TEC partnership in Nigeria 
is a significant milestone in Cummins’ journey to build coalitions that work to fill the global skills gap and help communities around the 
world thrive,” said Mark Levett, Vice President 
- Corporate Responsibility and CEO of the Cummins Foundation.Cummins hopes that TEC will increase access  to good jobs and develop a stronger and  growing employment base in communities  
across the globe.
“Communities around the world deserve 
improved educational outcomes and jobs that make families and communities stronger,” said 
Mary Chandler, Corporate Responsibility Director 
of Global Strategic Programs and Planning, and the TEC Program Leader.
Xavier Boutin, IECD Executive Director, agrees. 
“TEC aligns well with IECD’s Seeds of Hope 
vocational training program. This partnership 
is an important step to helping more people in Nigeria develop the skills they need to acquire good jobs, which will strengthen communities. 
We are pleased that these companies are 
committed to communities and helping  address this need.”
There are many ways that education, government 
and private partners can support TEC – helping 
students by providing internships, mentoring  
and good jobs; assisting education partners  and encouraging governments to incentivize teaching and learning. Coalition building is  
vital to filling the skills gap.
“It’s great to see a coalition like this come 
together to address a critical need,” said Gilles Vermot Desroches, Senior VP Sustainability, Schneider Electric and General Delegate  of the Schneider Electric Foundation.  
“It’s going to take global companies and 
organizations who understand the need  to get involved and find solutions – it helps  our communities be successful.”
TEC is quickly gaining partnership  
momentum at other global sites, as well.
In China, for example, a coalition has come 
together to support improvements at the Chongqing Industry Polytechnic College.  
Partners include Chongqing Changan Visteon 
Engine Control Systems, Exedy Chongqing and POSCO China Chongqing Processing Center.
“Our local economies are only as strong as  
the communities in which we live and work,” 
Levett said. “We must actively engage with students, teachers, schools, non-profits and governments to partner in developing our healthy communities of tomorrow.”
Cummins believes there is a technical skills gap  
around the world.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  90
The books, furniture and equipment donated by 
the Company and its employees to the school in Xiang’yang city will help students acquire the 
reading skills they need to be successful in life, 
she said.
But Tian also hopes her students will be inspired 
by the concepts of community service and global 
involvement rooted in the project, the 100th 
such library established by Cummins in China in partnership with The Library Project, a not-for-profit organization devoted to establishing libraries in rural and under-served elementary 
schools and orphanages.
“Education is key to our nation’s future and I believe 
these books, as well as the corporate citizenship example Cummins demonstrated, will not only 
improve kids’ extracurricular reading, but also 
inspire them and help them explore in the sea  of knowledge outside the classroom,” Tian said.Since the initiative started five years ago, various Cummins entities across China have donated more than $250,000, providing some 
90,000 books as well as furnishings and more 
to primarily rural schools in China. The schools serve about 50,000 low-income students.
The Cummins Library Project provides two 
kinds of help to schools, establishing either reading rooms in available space or making 
book donations to existing libraries, said Zhang Hongjie, Corporate Responsibility Leader for 
Cummins China.
CUmmINS EmPLOYEES IN CHINA INSPIRE  
RURAL STUDENTS THROUGH BOOkS
Sunzhuang Elementary School Principal Wenfang Tian says she believes  
the Cummins Library established at her school in 2013 will help students  
in two critical ways.
Students and adults celebrate at one of the 100 libraries 
established by the Company across China in conjunction with The Library Project. Cummins entities across the country have donated 90,000 books as part of the effort.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  91
“Reading rooms are donated to a school that has 
an empty room that can act as a library,” he said. “That room is then filled with children’s books, 
bookshelves, tables and chairs. Book donations 
are provided to schools that have tables, chairs and book shelves, but not enough quality children’s books for children to read.”
The partnership started when Cummins 
employees in Xi’an, China, began working with Tom Stader, an American who was living in Dalian, China, to establish a library in rural Shaanxi, China. Stader had established two 
earlier libraries working with some friends.
The collaboration between Stader and Cummins 
demonstrated what was possible if a company’s employees were engaged to take an active role 
in creating a library. Cummins China donated 
$50,000 to Stader’s charitable organization  and the effort quickly took off. 
Since 2006, The Library Project, Stader’s 
organization, has put more than 500,000 
children’s books into the hands of over  
315,000 young readers in China. Cummins  is one of several corporate sponsors, which  also include Land Rover, Jaguar, Pratt &  
Whitney, Siemens, and United Technologies.
 
 “Cummins has an incredible team in China that is very dedicated to improving the education that students are receiving in rural primary schools,” 
said Stader, whose organization expanded into 
Vietnam in 2013.
Hongjie said about 80 percent of the libraries 
donated by Cummins and its employees have been located in rural China and each school  has faced financial challenges that made it 
difficult to purchase quality children’s books.
“Normally, these schools have an average 
number of books under 10 for each student, most of the time much less than 10,” he said. “Each school is also financially incapable of 
purchasing books by themselves.”
Education is one of Cummins’ key corporate 
responsibility focus areas along with the environment and social justice. Leaders and employees, alike, say they feel good about making a difference in such an important area.
“As a local resident and a member of this 
community, I am extremely proud to be a part 
of Cummins, and to witness the establishment of the 100th library in Xiang’yang city,” said Dongfeng Cummins General Manager Wang  
Ning in his opening speech at a ceremony 
dedicating the latest library. The engine plant  is located in Xiang’yang.
“Since our first Cummins library in 2008, over 
8,000 Cummins employees across the nation 
have been dedicated to improving students’ 
educational environment through a variety  of meaningful projects like this,” he said.
Cummins Vice President Tracy Embree, President - Cummins 
Turbo Technologies, hands out books at a 2011 event.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  92
CUmmINS CREATES mODEL 
VILLAGES IN INDIA
The future seemed very bright for Dhyaneshwar 
Kolekar, a 10-year-old boy growing up in Nandal, 
a poor village not far from Cummins’ Megasite in 
Phaltan, Maharashtra, India.
He was excelling not only in his studies, but in 
music and sports, too. But then one day he had trouble threading a needle at a special camp to 
test children’s eyesight that was created as a 
result of a Community Impact Six Sigma project at Cummins. 
Dhyaneshwar was eventually diagnosed with 
cataracts in both eyes. Doctors said he could 
lose his sight if he didn’t get surgery right away. The boy underwent operations early in 2013  and today Dyaneshwar’s future is once again filled with promise.
It’s one of many success stories from Cummins 
India’s Model Village Program, a concerted  effort to improve the quality of life in Nandal village. Using techniques like Six Sigma,  
the business process improvement tool,  
A village resident in the model farming program at Nandal shows 
some of his produce to Cummins employees including Marya Rose, Cummins Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer.GLOBAL 
INVOLVEMENT
Seek a world view and act  
without boundaries.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  93
more than 800 employees have put their skills  
to work, investing about 3,000 hours to help Nandal develop economic opportunities,  
upgrade sanitary conditions, improve access  
to water and healthcare and much more. 
“It is most fulfilling to see the multi-fold benefits of 
the Model Village Program and its positive impact 
in Nandal,” said Subramanian Ravichandran, head 
of Corporate Responsibility at Cummins India. “The efforts of our employees coupled with the resilience of the villagers have transformed Nandal into a sustainable, largely self-sufficient village.”
 
Cummins’ Megasite was inaugurated in January 2011, about 110 kilometers from Pune, a city  of about 5 million. The 300 acre-site will 
eventually be home to around 10 Cummins facilities. The Company’s eighth facility was 
inaugurated early in 2014.
As part of the site’s development, Cummins India 
officials are committed to helping improve the 
quality of life in nearby villages in keeping with  the Company’s Corporate Responsibility value  to “serve and improve the communities in  
which we live.”
The Model Village Program began in 2011 with 
the goal of identifying the many fundamental needs in Nandal, the poorest village in the area. The Company developed a holistic plan spanning 
four or five years to address the village’s access 
to water, agricultural resources, sanitation and heath care.
For example, to resolve the village’s water 
scarcity, a long bund or barrier was built to 
harvest rain water and Cummins persuaded the government to repair the village’s existing percolation tank.
 The Company also worked with experts from 
the Agriculture Development Trust to conduct 
soil tests around the village to determine crop varieties that would reap the maximum yield.
To improve sanitation, villagers worked with 
Company employees to help build low-cost,  
low-water toilets as part of another Six Sigma project. The toilets were accompanied by an education effort on the importance of hygiene  to the collective health of village residents.
Finally, the program addressed health care in 
Nandal by providing multiple health “check-up” camps like the one Dhyaneshwar attended. About half the villagers have been examined 
as part of this initiative and more than 25 were 
diagnosed with cataracts and underwent surgery.
Improving villages is critically important in India. 
If more people can find work and fulfilling lives in their home villages, they will be less likely to move 
to large urban areas where many end up living in 
extreme poverty. These crowded, impoverished areas have become a major challenge for the country’s large cities.
Ravichandran said while the village has  
benefitted from the Model Village program  he believes Cummins employees have also gotten a lot out of the project.
“We are privileged to be able to improve people’s 
lives in meaningful and innovative ways,” he said.
Dhyaneshwar Kole reads a book at Nandal after having been 
successfully treated for cataracts discovered at a health clinic  that was part of Cummins’ Model Village Program.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  94
HE qUIETLY BUILDS STRONGER COmmUNITIES
Quiet, unassuming and humble, Subramanian Ravichandran does not 
immediately strike you as someone who regularly inspires hundreds of  
his co-workers to give back to their communities.
But since he became Cummins India’s Corporate 
Responsibility Leader in 2010 after more than 35 years as an engineer with the Company, 
the record speaks for itself. Cummins India 
employees have put together an impressive  list of community service projects, including:
 »The Model Village project in Nandal near 
Cummins’ Megasite, where employees are 
working with village residents to improve  health care, sanitation, water supplies and more (page 92). 
 »The Zero Garbage initiative in Pune, where 
employees instituted a massive recycling 
project now spreading to other parts of the  city that’s reducing the garbage sent to a troubled landfill.
 »The Padarwadi power project, in which employees in collaboration with IIT Bombay developed a generator running on vegetable oil so residents of a remote village no longer had to carry rice up a small mountain for milling. The man known simply as “Ravi” around the Company is quick to credit the ingenuity and compassion of his fellow employees. 
But those who know him best say it’s no 
coincidence that nearly a third of the winning projects in the Company’s Environmental Challenge competition (page 73) have come 
from Cummins India teams since he became 
Corporate Responsibility Leader. 
In 2013, Ravichandran was named a J. Irwin 
Miller Award winner, one of the highest honors Cummins leaders can bestow on an employee. 
“Ravi is a deep thinker and a very empathetic 
listener,” said Nagarajan Balanaga, Vice President – Human Resources at Cummins India. “When he visits communities, he is able to quickly connect 
Cummins’ skills with a community issue and he 
is so selfless in his approach that stakeholders completely trust his intentions.”CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY // CUmmINS PEOPLE
Subramanian Ravichandran pumps water at the village  
of Manjarsumbha near Cummins Generator Technologies  Plant in Ahmed Nagar. 
It’s the commitment of Cummins’ employees 
that’s critical to the Company living its Corporate Responsibility value. Here are two 
employees who are making a difference.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  95
CHILD DEVELOPmENT IS THIS BAkER’S RECIPE 
People around the world know Victoria Baker’s passion for early childhood 
development. It transcends nearly every language or cultural barrier she has ever 
encountered, from Columbus, Indiana, to Beijing, China, and many points in between. 
“To see Vicci work with a small child is like 
watching a painter turn a blank canvas into  a colorful and wondrous work of art,” said 
Thomas J. Milvert, president of the Columbus, 
Indiana Area Down Syndrome Support Group.   “Her love, patience and creativity along with a natural ability to sense the unique needs of each child are the perfect combination for nurturing the youngest in our community.”
As Director of Global Child Development Centers, 
she has been part of child development projects 
for Cummins in China, India, and around the United States.
 She has also donated hundreds of hours to 
Cummins’ Corporate Responsibility projects across the globe, helping orphans in China, 
Native-American children in Minnesota, low-
income children in Indianapolis and boys and  girls whose families have been shattered by domestic violence in Columbus, Indiana.
Baker also oversees the state-of-the-art 
Cummins Child Development Center, noted 
for its innovative approach to pre-school child 
development in the Company’s headquarters  city of Columbus, Indiana.
In 2013, during a surprise visit to the center, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence in 2013 named Baker a Sagamore of the Wabash, the highest honor a governor can bestow on a citizen of the state.
“We thank you for your commitment to ensuring 
this state, nation and this world are better for  
the next generation and generations to come,” Pence said. “You truly are one of Indiana’s finest.”
Victoria Baker greets Indiana Gov. Mike Pence who made a 
surprise visit to the Cummins Child Development Center in Columbus, Indiana, to name Baker a Sagamore of the Wabash.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  96
Cummins wants to use its philanthropy to 
support employee efforts using their skills  and passions to build stronger communities. 
Giving dollars, however, is not a central 
component of the Company’s Corporate Responsibility program.
In 2013, Cummins invested more than  
$16.3 million in corporate responsibility  
efforts to support the 67 percent of employees participating in the Every Employee Every Community program. The Company’s total investment includes about $7.4 million in grants 
from the Cummins Foundation. 
The Foundation grants covered a wide range 
of activities in 2013 that included significant employee involvement, from $75,315 for the 
Library Project in China (page 90), to $49,030  
for the Zero Garbage initiative to increase recycling in Pune, India, to $50,000 for the Gleaners Food Bank in Southern Indiana.
The Foundation also paid for the $10,000 
grants that go to the 15 top projects in the 
Environmental Challenge. The grants can be spent on the not-for-profit or non- governmental organization of each winner’s choice.
The Foundation focuses primarily on communities 
where Cummins facilities are located and in support of the Company’s three global priorities: education, the environment and social justice/equality of opportunity.
In 2013, about 48 percent of the Foundation’s 
spending went toward social justice/equality of opportunity activities while 42 percent went toward education initiatives and 10 percent  
went to environmental efforts.In addition, a Cummins-supported foundation in 
India gave out grants totaling $883,656 in 2013. The Cummins India Foundation, established in 
1990, supports higher education, energy, the 
environment and local infrastructure projects. Its grants are included in the $16.3 million in Cummins overall spending on corporate 
responsibility. 
Finally, some philanthropic spending is made  
by individual business units within Cummins –  just over $2.1 million in 2013.
A list of Cummins’ larger philanthropic 
contributions and projects during 2013  
is included on the following pages: CUmmINS PHILANTHROPY :  
SUPPORTING EmPLOYEE PASSIONS AND SkILLS
The Cummins Foundation, one of the oldest corporate foundations in the 
United States, has played a critical role in hundreds of initiatives since its 
creation in 1954.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY // PHILANTHROPYCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  97
GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COmmUNITYGRANT  
OR DONATIONCUmmINS 
fOUNDATIONS CUmmINS INC.
Education
EARTH University foundation  
Matching grant to establish six endowed scholarships and one endowed professorshipGuácimo, Limón, Costa Rica  $1,000,000 
Community Education Coalition  Two-year grant to Busy Bees Academy for low-income pre-K children Columbus, Indiana  $480,000 
Cummins College of Engineering for w omen (CCEw)  Purchase equipment to augment the 
infrastructure in project laboratories for mechanical, instrumentation, electronics and information technologyPune, India $403,208
Jackson County Education Coalition  Advanced manufacturing lab and planning grant Seymour, Indiana $333,333
Institute European of Cooperation and Development (IECD)  Three-year partnership for TEC: 
Technical Education for Communities (Cummins, Schneider Electric, CFAO and IIT)   Lagos, Nigeria $250,000
Save the Children  Disaster relief supporting Education in Emergencies program Global $250,000
Phaltan Engineering College  Construction of a separate classroom   Pune, India  $191,259
Ivy Tech foundation (through GlobalGiving)  Year Two - Graduation Coaches program Columbus, Indiana  $175,000
Beacon foundation (through GlobalGiving)  Funding for three years to support  government-run underprivileged secondary schools (years 9-12) across AustraliaAustralia $165,000
Lemoyne-Owen College  Matching grant to establish a Cummins endowed scholarship Memphis, Tennessee $150,000
mind Research Institute (ST math)   Educational partnership to implement Spatial Temporal (ST) Math in designated regions of the United StatesUnited States $100,000
Strategic Twin-Counties Education Partnership   
Root cause identification and strategic plan for improving student achievement Rocky Mount, North Carolina $100,000
Success for All foundation, Inc.  Educational partnership focusing on standards-based  curricula for early childhood through middle school in designated regions of the United States   United States  $100,000
The Library Project  Establish elementary school libraries as part of the China education initiative China $75,315
Gabriela mistral School   
Provide a better educational environment by improving the infrastructure of the school    San Luis Potosí, Mexico $73,200
Rowan Gate Primary School (through GlobalGiving)  Purchase a new boiler system   Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, U.K. $67,000
United w ay of Greater Cincinnati  Address unemployment and low educational attainment Walton, Kentucky  $60,000Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  98
GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COmmUNITYGRANT  
OR DONATIONCUmmINS 
fOUNDATIONS CUmmINS INC.
Education (continued)
Building Tomorrow, Inc.  Matching grant for Director of Development position  Indianapolis, Indiana  $50,000
mcDowell Adult Education Center  Support a computer lab for online General Educational Development 
(GED) testing to meet new state requirements  Columbus, Indiana  $46,900
Chhindwara Project  Sponsorship for Center of Excellence  Chhindwara, India  $33,458
malcolm C. Hursey Elementary School PTA  Support for the KidsGrow! Schoolyard Garden program  North Charleston, South Carolina $29,200
Carolina Youth Development Center (Charleston Orphan House, Inc.)   
Provide 50 children and families with a six-week summer literacy program    North Charleston, South Carolina $25,000
SA Tool, LTD  Purchase tools for the TEC: Technical Education for Communities school   Casablanca, Morocco $17,900
Tennessee Technological University foundation  Support the creation of a Volunteer Skills  
Matching Application for the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) initiativesCookeville, Tennessee  $16,900
Tsinghua University (through GlobalGiving)  Dr. Lyn Scholarships    Beijing, China $14,400
Batley Girls High School (through GlobalGiving)  Construction of science and humanities structures  Batley, West Yorkshire, U.K. $12,800
Dunkirk City School District  Tabletop CNC machine for the technology classroom    Dunkirk, New York $12,771
Beijing Institute of Technology (through GlobalGiving)  Dr. Lyn Scholarships Beijing, China  $10,400
Huazhong University of Science and Technology (through GlobalGiving)  Dr. Lyn Scholarships Hubei, China $10,400
Shanghai Jiao Tong University (through GlobalGiving)  Dr. Lyn Scholarships Shanghai, China $10,400
Tianjin University (through GlobalGiving)  Dr. Lyn Scholarships Tianjin, China $10,400
wuhan University of Technology (through GlobalGiving)  Dr. Lyn Scholarships    Hubei, China $10,400
xi’an Jiao Tong University (through GlobalGiving)  Dr. Lyn Scholarships Xi’an, Shaanxi, China $10,400
International School of Columbus  Operating support   Columbus, Indiana  $10,000
Park View Elementary School  Furnish a parental involvement resource room Cookeville, Tennessee  $10,000
Tembaletu Trust (through GlobalGiving)  Environmental Challenge grant recipient    Pietermaritzburg, South Africa $10,000
Youth Encouragement Services, Inc.   Support the YES after-school and summer programs for at-risk youth in three underserved areas  Nashville, Tennessee $10,000Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  99
GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COmmUNITYGRANT  
OR DONATIONCUmmINS 
fOUNDATIONS CUmmINS INC.
Environment
Hands on Nashville  Home Energy Savings Audit program Nashville, Tennessee $145,000
Daisy Chain (through GlobalGiving)   
Improve 200 square meters of wetland nature area to be used for therapy and outdoor education   Norton, Stockton on Tees, U.K. $75,610
mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (mCCIA)   
Zero Garbage Project - Replicate the project at Baner/Balewadi to recycle waste and generate electricityPune, India $49,030
Los Ojos de Dios  Construction of a sustainable water recycling system   Chihuahua, Mexico  $25,000
The Green Volunteer of Chongqing (through GlobalGiving)  Environmental training for the key members of 16 student societies of 14 universities in Chongqing   Chongqing, China  $21,000
Charyou Youth Volunteer Service Center (through GlobalGiving)   Support for the Charyou Youth Volunteer Service Center   Shanghai, China $17,000
xiangYang City Association of Environment Protection (through GlobalGiving)  Establish drinking water treatment units at Zhuji Middle School   Hubei, China  $16,000
Shanghai Roots & Shoots (through GlobalGiving)  Environmental education project    Shanghai, China $14,140
Global Village of Beijing Environmental Education Center (through GlobalGiving)   
Education awareness on mercury exposure and for the disposal of mercury thermometers in households   Beijing, China $14,000
foundation for Youth  Raised gardens at the Columbus Youth Camp  Columbus, Indiana  $13,500
Housing Partnerships, Inc.  Energy efficiency improvements to homes of at-risk elderly    Columbus, Indiana $12,050
Aikya Seva Centre  Environmental Challenge grant recipient   Maharashtra, India $10,000
Appropriate Rural Technology Institute  Environmental Challenge grant recipient    Phaltan, India $10,000
Blind School for Boys  Environmental Challenge grant recipient  Pune, India  $10,000
Dandelion middle School (through GlobalGiving)  Environmental Challenge grant recipient    Beijing, China $10,000
Global Village of Beijing (through GlobalGiving)  Environmental Challenge grant recipient  Beijing, China  $10,000
Green Hills Group  Environmental Challenge grant recipient   Pune, India  $10,000
Hands on Nashville  Environmental Challenge grant recipient    Nashville, Tennessee $10,000
International Association of the Lions Club (through GlobalGiving)   Environmental Challenge grant recipient   Mombasa, Kenya $10,000Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  100
GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COmmUNITYGRANT  
OR DONATIONCUmmINS 
fOUNDATIONS CUmmINS INC.
Environment (continued)
J. Irwin miller Community Center (through GlobalGiving)  Environmental Challenge grant recipient  Guarulhos, Brazil $10,000
Owl Rescue Centre (through GlobalGiving)  Environmental Challenge grant recipient Johannesburg, South Africa $10,000
mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (mCCIA)   
Environmental Challenge grant recipientPune, India  $10,000
Social Justice/Equality of Opportunity
United w ay Agencies  Employee matching program United States $2,767,784
Husk Power Project  Rural electrification Tamkuha, India $94,093
Nucleo Assistencial Bezerra De menezes - Escola Irmão francisco  (through GlobalGiving)  
Improve facilities and replace kitchen appliances at the Bezerra de Menezes Day Care São Paulo, Brazil  $60,000
Developmental Services Inc.  Improve the work efficiencies, safety and image of the facility Columbus, Indiana $58,798
xiangyang Charity foundation (through GlobalGiving)  Employee matching program Hubei, China $58,293
food Bank of Central & Eastern North Carolina   
Establish and expand the Weekend Power Pack for needy children in Nash, Edgecombe and Halifax countiesRaleigh, North Carolina $50,000
The Columbus Park foundation   Refurbish Columbus parks (Mead Village Park, Morningside Park, Ninth Street Park and Pence Street Park)  Columbus, Indiana $50,000
Gleaners food Bank of Indiana  Backsacks program Southern Indiana $50,000
Love Chapel  Support improvements to better serve clients in the community Columbus, Indiana $39,500
kids Against Hunger – Greenwood, Inc.   Purchase of a stand-up electric forklift that will improve warehouse safetyGreenwood, Indiana  $36,000 
methodist Care – Jordan House   Purchase of a used van for resident transportation and structural improvements of residential living areaGauteng, South Africa  $32,000
Reinventarse foundation  Technical training and internships for young offenders on probation Santiago, Chile  $30,300 
Turning Point Domestic Violence Services  Support improvements to the domestic violence shelter Columbus, Indiana  $30,200 
weija Leprosarium (through GlobalGiving)   
Structural improvements to a residential ward of the Leprosarium Accra, Ghana  $30,000 
Human Services Inc.  Improve the structural integrity of Horizon House main facility Columbus, Indiana  $27,500 Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  101
GRANTEE ORGANIzATION COmmUNITYGRANT  
OR DONATIONCUmmINS 
fOUNDATIONS CUmmINS INC.
Social Justice/Equality of Opportunity (continued)
maharashtra Arogya mandal (mAm)  Provide quality education, vocational training and preparation  
for higher education for the tribal girls at a small village Pune, India  $26,128 
Immigrant w elcome Center  Support to build capacity to deliver services Indianapolis, Indiana  $25,000 
masakhane Creche (through GlobalGiving)  Build and improve a sanitary structure Pietermaritzburg, South Africa  $25,000 
memphis Cultural Arts Enrichment Center   Matching grant to support operation of the Watoto Memphis Downtown Theater of the Performing Arts Memphis, Tennessee  $21,000 
Stoughton Area Youth Center  Support to continue computer and makerbot programs Stoughton, Wisconsin  $21,000 
INCLUDED (through GlobalGiving)   
Support the social and educational programs to benefit children of migrant workers and their communities Changping, China  $19,211 
world of Art Brut Culture (through GlobalGiving)   
Sponsor a year-long art class for special needs teenagers at the World of Art Brut Culture Shanghai, China  $19,149 
Safe Anchor Trust (through GlobalGiving)  Refurbishment of the trip boat Lady Victoria in Brighouse Mirfield, West Yorkshire, U.K.  $16,400 
Christ’s Church (through GlobalGiving)  Purchase and install new PCs, software and phone system Stamford, Lincolnshire, U.K.  $15,911 
TURGOk (Türkiye Gőrme Oürlüler kitapliği – Library of Turkey for Visually Disabled)  (through GlobalGiving)  Support to build a recording room to increase the yield on output of visually impaired media  Izmir, Turkey  $15,835 
Legacy Charities, Inc.  Improve physical and psychological health conditions of children Beijing, China  $14,116 
China xiangyang Charity federation (through GlobalGiving)   
Support three projects: 1. Improve drinking water in 14 schools; 2. Design English and career choice curricula; 3. Conduct simulation of the university entrance exam interview for students Hubei, China  $12,642 
mid-South food Bank  Social media fundraising platform for the backpack program Memphis, Tennessee  $12,000 
wuxi Nanchang Peizhi School (through GlobalGiving)  Support the building of a special needs workshop Wuxi, China  $12,000 
New Sunshine Charity foundation (through GlobalGiving)  Employee matching program Wuxi, China  $11,317 
People Serving People  Green initiative within the organization to conserve energy Minneapolis, Minnesota  $11,000 
Colecta Solidaria (through GlobalGiving)  Employee matching program San Luis Potosí, Mexico  $10,483 
Centro de estudios de promociaon social, CARITA, A.C. (through GlobalGiving)   
Environmental Challenge grant recipient San Luis Potosí, Mexico  $10,000 
Promotores Sociales Voluntarios, A.C. (through GlobalGiving)  Environmental Challenge grant recipient San Luis Potosí, Mexico  $10,000 Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  102
BOARD Of DIRECTORS
Chairman Tom Linebarger 
Chairman and CEO, Cummins
Director mark Levett 
Vice President – Corporate Responsibility, 
Cummins
Director w ill miller 
Member of the Cummins Board of Directors
Director marya Rose 
Vice President and Chief Administrative  Officer, Cummins
Director Pat w ard 
Vice President –  
Chief Financial Officer, Cummins
Director Tony Satterthwaite 
Vice President  President – Power Generation  
Business, Cummins
 Director Anant Talaulicar 
Vice President 
President – Components Group 
Chairman – Cummins India
Director Rich freeland 
Vice President 
President – Engine Business, Cummins
Director Lisa Yoder 
Vice President – Global Supply Chain 
Manufacturing, Cummins
fOUNDATION OffICERS
Chief Executive Officer mark Levett 
Vice President –  Corporate Responsibility, Cummins
Treasurer marsha Allamanno 
Corporate Responsibility Finance Director, Cummins
Secretary mary Chandler 
Corporate Responsibility Director of Global Strategic Programs and Planning, CumminsAUDIT COmmITTEE
Chair marsha Hunt 
Vice President – Controller, Cummins
Luther Peters 
Vice President – Internal Audit, Cummins
karen Battin 
Vice President –  Controller, Engine Business, Cummins
INVESTmENT COmmITTEE
Chair Gloria Griesinger 
Executive Director –  
Global Treasury and Pensions, Cummins
Greg Ehlinger 
President, Cummins Northwest
Rakesh Gangwani 
Director –  EMEA Corporate Development, CumminsfOUNDATION LEADERSHIP
The Cummins Foundation is governed by these officials and committees:Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  103
Safety  Page 104
diversity procurement  Page 124
workforce  Page 126
       Diversity  Page 114
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY fINANCIAL SAfETY RIGHT ENVIRONmENT GOVERNANCECummins believes sustainability goes beyond the environment  
and community service to include keeping our employees safe,  
creating a diverse and inclusive workforce, and developing that  
workforce to make the Company a great place to work.
It’s all about creating the RIGHT ENVIRONmENT .Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  104
Both the Company’s Lost Work Day and Major 
Injuries and Dangerous Occurrences rates also went down in 2013 compared to the previous 
year. But Cummins narrowly missed aggressive 
targets for those key safety metrics.
“Part of the reason we set aggressive goals is to 
ensure we never get complacent,” said Michelle 
Garner-Janna, Director – Corporate Health and 
Safety. “I’m pleased we had record lows for several key performance indicators in 2013,  but the health and safety of our workforce is  imperative; I want to see us do even more.”CUmmINS’ PUSH fOR HEALTH AND SAfETY  
INCLUDES wORk, HOmE AND COmmUNITY
Cummins rolled out a new health and safety vision, several new  
initiatives and met its goal of driving down the Company’s Incidence  
Rate to a record low in 2013.
SAfETYSAfETY
Cummins employee Ryan Sterling works safely at height  
with a harness on top of the Company’s QSK95, the largest  engine the Company makes. Corporate Health and Safety  released a new working at height safety toolkit in 2013.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  105
To maintain the Company’s focus on  
health and safety, Cummins leaders early  in 2014 recommitted themselves to the  
overall goal of becoming not just an  
industry leader in this area, but a leader  among all companies, regardless of their business or location. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
Tom Linebarger reiterated his goal,  set in 2012, of reaching zero Major Injuries  and Dangerous Occurrences by 2016.
“To accomplish this goal, it will require  
a strong focus from every employee,”  
Garner-Janna said. “We need to develop  an interdependent culture in which every employee looks out not just for themselves  
but for their co-workers as well,  
and really values health and safety.”
Cummins’ health and safety team worked  
to move the Company toward that kind of  culture in many ways in 2013, including: 
 
  »Developing a new vision:  “Injury-Free Living – It’s Our Responsibility.”  The vision encourages employees to take 
responsibility for safety not just on the job,  
but in all facets of their lives.
 »Establishing new tools:  The Company released new health and safety 
toolkits for working at height and machine 
guarding and identified new ways to analyze ergonomic injuries, the highest contributor  to injuries and illnesses at Cummins.
 »Leader commitment:  
Cummins developed and implemented a  
new educational summit designed to get Company leaders and managers personally engaged in health and safety called  
“Live It. Lead It (page 108).”
 »Contractor safety:  
The Company implemented a new  contractor safety pre-qualification and  selection program in 2013 designed to  
ensure that contractors working for Cummins 
not only have a good safety record, but also understand the Company’s health and safety expectations of them (page 110).BY THE NUmBERS
Cummins reached its 2013 goal of 0.65 for  
the Company’s Incidence Rate, the relative 
number of recordable injuries and illnesses  
per 100 employees. This represents a  5.5 percent decrease compared to 2012.
But it missed its target for Severity Lost Work  
Day Rate of 3.83, which is based on lost 
time injuries. Cummins’ rate of 5.03 in 2013 was nevertheless an 8 percent improvement compared to the year before.
Meanwhile, the Company saw a 16 percent 
improvement compared to 2012 in its Major 
Injuries and Dangerous Occurrences Rate of 0.047. Cummins, however, missed its target  of 0.040.
Finally, the Company’s Severity Case Rate  
of 0.20 in 2013 narrowly missed the target  of 0.18, which represented a 5 percent  increase over 2012. The rate is calculated  based on the number of injuries and illnesses 
resulting in lost work days per 100 employees.
 Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  106
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20160.00.51.01.52.02.53.0Incidence Rate Indicator2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20160.00.20.40.60.81.01.2Severity Case Rate Indicator“We set very aggressive goals because we’re 
serious about health and safety,” said Pramod Palat, Cummins Occupational Safety Director. 
“We want everyone to return home safely to  
their families after work. Setting tough goals  helps us get there.”
NEw VISION
To help drive progress to an interdependent 
safety culture, the Company created a new health and safety vision: “Injury-Free Living — It’s Our Responsibility.” Health and Safety leaders hope the new vision will help drive employees to take 
responsibility for safety not only at work, but at 
home and in their communities, too.
The new vision was developed after a challenge 
from Cummins Board of Directors to Cummins 
leadership after a record statistical year in  
2011. The board proposed that Cummins become world-class in health and safety.  That means becoming a leader not just  among other manufacturing companies  
but among all businesses around-the-world. 
Garner-Janna says becoming a world-class 
health and safety company will mean health  and safety is embedded in everything  
employees do – on and off the job.“Injury-free living is about preventing injuries in our 
homes, in our communities, in the environment,” Garner-Janna said. “It’s all of our responsibility  
to commit to a goal of zero injuries and to live  
an injury-free life.”
NEw TOOLS
Cummins’ health and safety team produced 
several new toolkits to help create healthy and 
safe workplaces. The working at height toolkit addresses employees who work on elevated work surfaces such as ladders, lifts, and booms. Even working just a few feet off the ground 
presents the opportunity for serious injury if 
employees don’t take necessary safeguards.
Although machine or equipment guards play  
a vital role in ensuring that machines are safe, 
they are at times treated casually, which can 
cause injuries that could have been prevented.  To tackle this issue, Corporate Health and  Safety designed a machine guarding toolkit to help employees recognize and address 
potentially dangerous situations where guards  
are needed or could be improved. 
 
 
 
Actual  
TargetPOSITIVE TREND LINES
The Company’s Severity Case Rate was 0.20 in 2013, narrowly missing the target of 0.18. The rate is calculated based on the number of injuries and illnesses resulting in lost work days per 100 employees.
Cummins reached its 2013 goal of 0.65 for the Company’s Incidence  
Rate, the relative number of recordable injuries and illnesses per 100 employees. This represents a 5.5 percent decrease compared to 2012.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  107
The Company also continued working on 
ergonomics, re-communicating a campaign to encourage employees to report earlier if they 
have any symptoms of an ergonomic injury. This 
early intervention to reduce or eliminate risk is an important aspect to ergonomic improvements. Reporting early symptoms not only can enable more effective treatment, it can also allow jobs to 
be redesigned to remove ergonomic risk factors.
Ergonomics is the highest contributor to injuries 
and illnesses within the Company. Cummins is working with an outside company to develop a standardized ergonomics tool to better analyze 
ergonomic risk factors and develop techniques  
to prevent ergonomics injuries.
The Company also continued its annual Ergo 
Cup Competition to encourage sharing and global deployment of excellent solutions to 
ergonomic problems. In its second year over  80 projects from around the world  
were submitted and shared. 
SAfE DRIVING
Another potentially dangerous activity involving 
almost all Cummins employees is driving automobiles either to work, for work, or both.
The Company launched the third phase of  
an ongoing campaign designed to identify  
drivers at the greatest risk of having accidents, 
giving them the help they need to improve.
The program involved more than  
45,000 employees in 40 countries and  was translated into 16 languages. At risk  
drivers learned about avoiding “road rage,” 
minimizing distractions and driving defensively.
Corporate Health and Safety plans to  
continue the focus on safe driving in 2014.CAmPBELL INSTITUTE
Cummins’ commitment to health and safety was 
recognized when the Company was invited in the fall of 2012 to be a Charter Member of the Campbell Institute, part of the National Safety Council in the United States. 
The Institute brings together leaders of 
high performing organizations that believe environmental, health and safety standards  are at the core of business vitality.
Cummins is able to share best practices through  
the Institute with other members, including the  
Dow Chemical Company, Exxon Mobil Corp.,  General Motors and United Technologies.
In 2013, Cummins was runner up in the Institute’s 
Robert W. Campbell Award competition  
in which participants undergo an exhaustive review of their safety policies and practices.
“The process really encourages you to think very 
critically about what you are doing and how you  
can improve,” Garner-Janna said. “I know we’ll  be much better for having participated.”“INJURY -fREE LIVING IS ABOUT PREVENTING INJURIES IN 
OUR HOmES, IN OUR COmmUNITIES, IN THE ENVIRONmENT . 
IT’S ALL Of OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO COmmIT TO A GOAL 
Of zERO INJURIES AND TO LIVE AN INJURY -fREE LIfE.”
mICHELLE GARNER-JANNA
DIRECTOR – CORPORATE HEALTH AND SAFETYCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  108
CUmmINS SAYS LEADERS mUST mAkE  
HEALTH AND SAfETY PERSONAL
Safety became personal for Ken Anderson at an early age. When Cummins 
Emission Solutions’ Supply Chain Leader was a small child, his father injured 
his back at work and eventually lost his job because of the injury.
“We moved to another state and he worked hard 
for many decades after that, but he was always hampered by back pain from his original injury,” 
said Anderson, who maintains the injury was  
hard not just on his father, but on his family, too.
The former manager of Cummins’ Rocky Mount 
Engine Plant in North Carolina, Anderson is one 
of many Company leaders speaking out on their 
personal experiences with health and safety  as part of a new campaign at Cummins called “Live It. Lead It.” The goal of the new initiative  is to strengthen leaders’ personal commitment  
to health and safety.“I think the program is effective in part because 
it’s very interactive,” said Michelle Garner-Janna, Director – Corporate Health and Safety. “It starts 
a conversation about the impact a workplace 
injury can have not only on an individual but on the individual’s family and on workplace morale, too. If we can make safety personal for a leader, 
that leader is much more likely to value safety, 
both inside the workplace and out.”
The training includes videos in which employees 
recount serious injuries as well as how they felt watching family and friends get hurt in workplace 
incidents. Injury victims describe the pain they  
felt when their children treated them differently after accidents. They remember the stress  they put on loved ones when, sometimes in 
a matter of seconds, they went from being 
independent to needing help with their most basic personal needs.
Global Supply Chain Leader Ken Anderson talks  
about his personal experience with safety as part  of the “Live It. Lead It.” initiative.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  109
“Thankfully, a lot of our leaders have not had 
that emotional jolt you get when there’s been a workplace accident on your watch,” Garner-
Janna said. “They haven’t had to sit up all night 
with an injured employee wondering how to support his or her family.” 
“We want to give our leaders that jolt, that 
emotional connection, without them experiencing 
it the hard way,” Garner-Janna said. 
The program has its roots in a 2011 Cummins 
Distribution Business Unit initiative that also focused on building a personal connection to 
safety. It asked participants at the end of each 
session to make a personal commitment to taking specific actions to help ensure everyone  in their workplace returned safely to their  
families at the end of their shifts.
Live It. Lead It. takes a similar path, asking 
leaders to look at every work station in their facilities, and then to ask themselves if they would let their mother, daughter or son work  at those stations. 
“The family connection is very strong in Live It. 
Lead It.,” Garner-Janna said. “Many people  
will spend more time with their work colleagues  than their real family. In many ways, a workplace  injury affects your real family as well as your  
work family.”
The training sessions typically last two days and 
leaders learn about the toll workplace injuries can take in addition to how to develop a safety culture within a workplace where employees not 
only look out for their own safety but the safety 
of their co-workers, too. Leaders explore how to communicate their concern for safety and behaviors that can undermine that message. 
“A leader has to speak out about safety because 
their silence can be interpreted to be implied consent to an unsafe condition,” said Helen Watts, the Global Health, Safety and Environment Leader for Cummins Emission Solutions.  She has implemented the Live It. Lead It.  training throughout much of her organization. 
“If a leader tries to delegate that responsibility, 
the results can be devastating,” added Pramod Palat, Cummins Occupational Safety Director. “If employees don’t believe their manager is 
committed to safety, they may choose to take  
an unsafe action in order to meet what they  think their leader values.” 
Anderson says the key is to never let safety 
become simply a number.
“Too often we see safety as statistics or some 
quantitative measure or report,” Anderson said. “While it is important to record information about safety, we must never lose sight that safety is 
a personal matter – beyond scorecards and 
measures. Every incident represents a person and their family.”Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  110
CONTRACTOR SCREENING ENHANCES  
HEALTH AND SAfETY AT CUmmINS
Cummins’ new Health and Safety Vision doesn’t just pertain to employees. 
“Injury-Free Living — It’s Our Responsibility” applies to contractors working  
on Company property, too.
That’s why the Health and Safety team at 
Cummins rolled out a new contractor safety screening program in 2013 designed to ensure 
that contractors working for the Company 
not only have a good safety record, but also understand the safety expectations Cummins  has for them.
“Many contractors are working close to  
Cummins employees, so this makes sense  from the perspective of keeping our own employees safe,” said Pramod Palat,  Cummins’ Occupational Safety Director. 
“But I also think this is consistent with the 
idea that health and safety doesn’t stop within Cummins’ property lines,” he added. “Injury-free living means thinking about injury prevention 
in our homes, in our communities and in the 
environment at large.”Over the past five years, contractors working  for Cummins have been involved in a number  of major health and safety incidents. They  
engage in any number of high risk activities, 
ranging from working at height and in confined spaces to handling chemicals and maintaining electrical systems.
The Company expects contractors to behave  
just as Cummins employees would, putting health and safety first and looking out for each other to ensure everyone returns home safely  at the end of the work day.
In May 2010, the Company created a supplier 
(contractor) safety management toolkit that required Cummins safety personnel to work with contractors to plan jobs and perform risk 
assessments before any work begins. It also called for on-site management, audits  
and inspections and pre-qualifying contractors using safety criteria prior to bidding. 
Health and Safety leaders have long believed 
that hiring a contractor should involve some kind of safety review. But in rolling out the toolkit, it became clear the Company didn’t have a good 
way to pre-qualify contractors. For example, it 
lacked a central repository for critical documents.
In early 2012, Corporate Indirect Purchasing  
and Corporate Safety partnered to determine how a sustainable program could be developed 
to pre-qualify contractors. They launched a  
Six Sigma project using the business problem solving tool to put out a request for proposals.
Eventually, the Company selected a business 
called PICS to pre-qualify all contractors who Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  111
perform work on Cummins sites. PICS collects, 
and when possible verifies, data including safety performance evaluations, licenses and 
certification information. 
About half of Cummins’ current contractors in 
North America were already registered with PICS at the outset of the program. Contractors who 
weren’t registered were given time to register and 
obtain “green flag status.” Without that status, a contractor can’t work for Cummins.Sites in Southern Indiana were the first to take part in PICS. The initiative began reaching out  to North American sites outside Indiana in 
January of 2013 and is expected to be available 
throughout most of Cummins by the end of  2014. More than 500 contractors have  registered with PICS in North America.
The initiative is drawing a lot of interest in  
the safety world outside of Cummins, and  was lauded by the National Safety Council among others.“We’ve been very pleased with how well this program has been received, including by our contractors,” Palat said. “‘Injury-Free Living’ 
means thinking about everyone’s safety.  
We want to protect our contractors just  as we protect our employees.”
Crews from Milestone Contractors, L.P ., work on the site of the 
Cummins LiveWell Center, a health and well-being center under construction in Columbus, Indiana. Before it could begin work,  the firm had to clear a new safety review started by Corporate  
Health and Safety for all contractors.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  112
DEfIBRILLATORS SAVE LIVES AT CUmmINS
Gerry Gorbey felt bad almost from the moment he woke up on an April 
morning in 2013. By the time he got to work at Cummins Northwest in  
Renton, Washington, around 6 a.m., he knew something was seriously wrong. 
Dizzy, with an upset stomach, Gorbey broke  
into a cold sweat.
“This being the age of the Internet, I knew  
it was trouble,” said Gorbey, who was  
familiar with the symptoms of a heart attack.  “I knew, wow, this is big.”
Gorbey, however, was lucky in two ways.  
First, many of his co-workers had been trained  
in first aid. In addition, Cummins Northwest  had an automated external defibrillator or AED,  which his co-workers quickly used when they found he didn’t have a pulse.
Despite going into full cardiac arrest, Gorbey 
not only survived but was back on the job as a Service Supervisor at Cummins Northwest within a few weeks – with no permanent heart damage.
“My cardiologist told me if it was not for  
the defibrillator, I’d be dead,” Gorbey says without hesitation. Gorbey was not the only Cummins employee who received life-saving help from an AED  in 2013. Brad Lindquist, an employee of  
the Jamestown Engine Plant in New York,  
fell to the floor without a pulse around 6:30  on an October morning in 2013. 
Co-worker Adam Valvo quickly began performing 
cardio pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) until Stephen Barresi, a physician’s assistant at  
the plant, arrived and used the AED. Lindquist regained a normal pulse before being taken  
to a nearby hospital. He returned to work  
after about two months.
 Cummins employees who responded to Gerry Gorbey’s heart 
attack are honored by the City of Renton for their work. Gorbey is third from the left and Rick Miller is fifth from the left.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  113
“To have one person come back from full cardiac 
arrest is rare,” said Kelli Smith, Cummins’ Occupational Health Director. “To have two in the 
same year – that’s amazing.”
Cummins’ efforts to have AEDs at every site with 
10 or more employees dates back several years. The initiative started with the Company’s Power 
Generation Business Unit because of the heart-
related risks inherent in working with electricity. The Company today is very close to its goal with around 130 sites now equipped with AEDs. 
Gorbey and Lindquist were both fortunate that 
one of the first people to arrive after their heart 
attacks was an employee with experience as an emergency responder.
In Gorbey’s case, that person was Rick Miller, a 
fellow service supervisor at Cummins Northwest 
who was formerly a paramedic.
Miller had been one of the first to respond a year 
or so earlier when an employee at the building in suburban Seattle suffered a heart attack before 
Cummins Northwest had an AED. That person 
also survived. Miller said his training immediately kicked in when Gorbey collapsed, but he said anyone can use an AED.“The machine tells you what to do, step by step,” Miller said. “It is very easy to use.”
In Lindquist’s case, Valvo moved quickly when 
he saw a pair of legs sticking out from below the 
engine lift table where Lindquist had fortunately fallen on a rubber mat. As a volunteer firefighter, Valvo had accompanied paramedics on heart 
attack calls before, but this was the first time he 
had arrived on the scene first.
Like Miller, he says his training kicked in as he 
quickly applied CPR until Barresi arrived with the AED. 
The American Heart Association says the survival 
rate for a heart attack victim who receives immediate care like CPR is double or triple that for someone who has to wait five or 10 minutes 
until help arrives.
“There’s no question that everything lined up for 
Brad that day,” said Barresi, who has extensive experience working in emergency rooms. “Adam was nearby and medical personnel were relatively 
close. Our employees did a great job of crowd 
control and making sure the ambulance could get as close as possible. Everybody did a great job.”
Lindquist knows he was fortunate.“Almost everybody at the hospital said I 
was lucky to be alive,” he said. “Had I been somewhere else, I probably wouldn’t have made 
it. Everyone knew exactly what they were doing.” 
Gorbey wants to spread the word that AEDs and 
first aid training save lives.
“Ninety percent of the people who go into full 
cardiac arrest die,” he said. “I am extremely 
grateful for what my co-workers did and for Cummins Northwest providing the AED.”
Adam Valvo (left), Brad Lindquist (middle) and Stephen Barresi 
(right) at the Jamestown Engine Plant.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  114
That’s why diversity is one of the Company’s six 
core values. Cummins pledges to “embrace the diverse perspectives of all people” and honor 
them with “dignity and respect.”
The Company’s efforts on diversity over the 
past year have focused on three areas key to leveraging the full benefit of a diverse workforce:
 »Creating an inclusive workplace.
 »Working with the Company’s business units to incorporate diversity into their business plans.
 »Developing and empowering under-represented groups of employees to  
ensure their voices are heard. 
“The diverse ideas and perspectives of our 
employees help drive innovation at Cummins,” said Kelley Bertoux Creveling, the Company’s 
Executive Director of Global Diversity and  Right Environment. “Diversity not only helps  
us create innovative products, it enables us to better serve our customers and establish a solid  
foundation for future growth and success.” 
INCLUSIVENESS
In an inclusive work environment, employees  
feel free to share their full opinions and  
challenge long held beliefs appropriately.  
It’s in competing ideas that the real power  of diversity can be seen.
Cummins took a number of steps to promote 
inclusiveness over the past year, starting with  
the posting of “Personal Statements on Diversity” 
from members of senior leadership on the Company’s internal website. The leaders  shared their own experiences and personal 
journeys with diversity.LEVERAGING THE POwER  
Of DIVERSITY
Cummins believes diversity is critical to creating the 
right work environment for success. Bringing together 
people with diverse backgrounds to solve a problem 
will almost always yield a better result.RIGHT ENVIRONmENT // DIVERSITY
RIGHT ENVIRONmENTDIVERSITY
Embrace the diverse perspectives  
of all people and honor with both  dignity and respect.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  115
“At various times in my life, and certainly during 
my career at Cummins, I have seen how outcomes can be so much better when we 
welcome diverse perspectives and backgrounds 
and help others to have a voice,” wrote  Marya Rose, Cummins Vice President  and Chief Administrative Officer. 
“Cummins has contributed to making a 
difference in people’s lives by creating a vision and a mission to have those who are recruited and hired treated with dignity and respect and wanting everyone to be free to grow and 
develop on the merits of their performance,” 
wrote Cummins Vice President Pamela Carter, President of the Company’s Distribution  Business Unit. “Cummins has given me the opportunity to grow, develop and contribute in ways that seemed impossible just a few years ago,” added Carter 
who also wrote about her experience marching 
with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
Company leaders also spoke out against  
House Joint Resolution 3, an amendment to  
ban gay marriage in Indiana’s state constitution.  
They said the amendment ran counter  to the Company’s values and would send  an unwelcoming message to prospective  employees considering a move to  
Cummins’ headquarters state (page 119).
 
 The Company also developed and implemented new policies and procedures to promote 
inclusiveness. For example, Cummins instituted 
a transition process to help employees going through a change in gender identity and the Company adopted a global telecommuting policy 
to provide guidelines for employees wanting the 
flexibility of a non-traditional work arrangement. 
Cummins also continues to establish space  
in its facilities for nursing mothers and for 
meditation and religious observances.
 
Members of the Women’s Affinity Group in South Africa  
join the students they tutor at a school in a struggling  township near the Company’s headquarters.TAkING ACTION
The Company’s four major business units, 
meanwhile, are working to incorporate diversity 
into their business plans. Cummins’ Global 
Diversity staff and the Chairman’s Diversity Council are establishing guiding principles for both the business units and the Company’s  
Area Business Organizations (ABOs) located 
around the world.
The business units and ABOs then develop 
their own action plans aligned to the principles established by the staff and the council. The 
council, which is made up of the Company’s 
senior leaders, meets quarterly to discuss diversity related issues at Cummins. 
Diversity at the Company has long been 
about more than representation, but one of 
Cummins’ key initiatives has been to develop a workforce and leaders that closely resemble the demographics in the countries and markets where the Company does business.
Cummins has several initiatives designed  
to increase the number of leaders from  under-represented groups at Cummins.  For example, the Company has mentoring 
programs that pair Cummins officers with  
female employees identified as having a high potential for leadership. In addition, women can obtain career advice, network and demonstrate their leadership skills through the Company’s 
more than half-dozen Women’s Affinity Groups,  
located in Australia, Brazil, China, India,  South Africa, the United Kingdom and the  United States.
A key metric for the Company is Leadership  
by Country of Birth. Cummins believes strongly in developing leadership from the markets where Here’s a look at some diversity facts at Cummins:
 »The Company has more than 100 employee resource groups connected to diversity.  
Affinity Groups are organized around specific 
demographic traits under-represented at the Company such as women and African Americans. Local Diversity Councils are site-based groups that promote diversity in  general and identify diversity-related issues  
to site leadership.
 »Legendary CEO J. Irwin Miller helped with  
the organization of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s  1963 March on Washington while Miller  
led the National Council of Churches.
 »The Company’s Diversity Procurement  
Program is approaching $1 billion in  spending with diverse suppliers (page 124).CUmmINS AND DIVERSITYCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  117
it does business rather than rely on expatriates. 
The Company’s Global Leadership Development Program was established in 2012 to prepare  
high potential employees from outside the  
United States for future leadership roles.So far, the 18-month program has been  held in China, India, South Africa and South  America. The program is next slated for Brazil. 
LOOkING AHEAD
Almost one out of five Cummins employees has 
a degree in engineering or some other scientific discipline. The Company is also working to 
develop diversity in the next generation of its 
employees with these critical backgrounds.Cummins employees are active in groups such  as the Society of Women Engineers, the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers and the 
National Society of Black Engineers. 
The Company is a major supporter of the 
Cummins College of Engineering for Women  in India and Project Lead the Way in the United 
States, whose goal is to attract younger students 
to careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM). 
Cummins also sponsors a traveling Lego model 
of its QSK95 engine that serves as a vehicle 
for Cummins engineers and younger male and 
female students to talk about STEM as a career.
“Diversity is more than just the right thing  
to do,” said Creveling. “Diversity aligns with  
our business goals and is critical to the 
sustainability of our Company.”“THE DIVERSE IDEAS AND PERSPECTIVES Of OUR EmPLOYEES HELP DRIVE 
INNOVATION AT CUmmINS. DIVERSITY NOT ONLY HELPS US CREATE INNOVATIVE 
PRODUCTS, IT ENABLES US TO BETTER SERVE OUR CUSTOmERS AND ESTABLISH  
A SOLID fOUNDATION fOR fUTURE GROwTH AND SUCCESS.”
kELLEY BERTOUx CREVELING
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF GLOBAL DIVERSITY AND RIGHT ENVIRONMENT
Vice President Tracy Embree (left), President – Cummins  
Turbo Technologies; Vice President and Chief Information  Officer Sherry Aaholm (center) and Joann Jones, Executive Director, Leadership Development (right), discuss the skills  
it takes to be an effective leader at a forum sponsored by  
the Women’s Affinity Group in Southern Indiana.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  118
wORkfORCE BY LOCATION
More than half the Cummins workforce works outside the United States.  
Here’s a look at where Cummins employees were in 2013.DEVELOPING A TRULY GLOBAL wORkfORCE
Diversity at Cummins has long been about more than representation. But as a truly global  company, Cummins wants to develop a workforce that closely resembles the demographics  in the countries and markets where we do business.
Company leaders pay special attention to some key metrics of under-represented groups  
at Cummins including women and country of birth. Here’s a look at what’s been happening  in these areas from 2008 to 2013.
0%10%20%30%40%
UNITED STATESUKINDIA
REST OF WORLD*MEXICOCHINAAUSTRALIA
BRAZIL
0%10%20%30%40%50%60%COUNTRY OF BIRTH FOR MANAGERS
2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013
UNITED STATESUKINDIA
REST OF WORLD*MEXICOCHINABRAZILAUSTRALIA0%10%20%30%40%COUNTRY OF BIRTH FOR THE WORKFORCE
2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013
UNITED STATESUKINDIA
REST OF WORLD*MEXICOCHINABRAZILAUSTRALIA2008
201325.81%23.68%
2008
201319.68%16.42%COUNTRY Of BIRTH fOR THE wORkfORCEwOmEN IN THE  
wORkfORCE
wOmEN LEADERS 
 IN THE wORkfORCE
COUNTRY Of BIRTH fOR LEADERS
*Rest of world category includes countries with less than 1,000 Cummins employees.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  119
CUmmINS SPEAkS OUT fOR DIVERSITY
Cummins’ long term success in a highly competitive global  
economy depends on attracting the best and brightest employees.
That’s one key reason the Company spoke out 
against House Joint Resolution 3, a proposed amendment to the state of Indiana’s constitution 
that would ban gay marriage.
“This resolution sends a negative message that 
Indiana is not a place that welcomes people of all backgrounds and it jeopardizes our ability to be 
competitive in global markets,” said Marya Rose, 
Cummins Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, testifying before the Indiana House Judiciary Committee in January, 2014. 
“We know from experience that the creative 
and innovative employees we need to meet 
the challenges of a 21
st century economy are 
reluctant to move to places that do not embrace diversity,” Rose added.
Cummins did not enter this highly-charged 
debate lightly. Company leaders recognize there are people with strong feelings on both sides.But given the potential for a long and extremely divisive debate that could potentially affect 
Cummins’ ability to attract the most talented 
employees, leaders felt the Company must act.
It was not the first time the Company has taken a 
position on this issue. Cummins lobbied in 2012 against a proposed gay marriage ban that was 
ultimately defeated in Minnesota.
The Company also joined more than 250 other 
companies as a signatory to a brief filed with the U.S. Supreme Court in 2013 opposing 
California’s Proposition 8 prohibiting same sex 
couples from marrying. The court declined to enter the California case, effectively clearing  the way for same sex marriages to resume.
In Indiana, lawmakers passed the amendment, 
but only after removing language that would have 
banned civil unions and similar arrangements. That move delayed a public vote on the  measure for at least two years.
Cummins Vice President and Chief Administrative  
Officer Marya Rose testifies against a gay marriage  ban before the Indiana House.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  120
So it was no surprise to the Company’s top 
engineering leaders from around the world to see Dr. Wall on stage as part of an engineering 
conference in the fall of 2013 dressed in a 
traditional Chinese jacket called a “Tang Zhuang.” He was beating a small drum as part of the prelude to a Chinese word game called “Taboo.”
The Company’s engineering leaders almost 
always schedule time during the twice yearly leadership conferences to learn more about each others’ cultures. While these sessions include plenty of fun, they are considered just 
as important as the conference’s meetings on 
growth, design and strategy.
That’s because to harness the full power of a 
diverse, global workforce, people have to be 
able to work together, communicating freely 
and openly. In an environment where employees frequently work in teams and members can be on different continents, open communication  can be more difficult than it sounds.
Knowing the people you work with and a little 
bit about their families, their interests and their cultures can make it much easier. 
“It not only helps, it’s essential,” said Jim 
Katzenmeyer, the engineering leader on the 
development of Cummins 5.0L V8 Turbo Diesel 
engine that will be featured in Nissan’s next generation of Titan pickup truck.
This particular engineering leadership conference 
focused on China. After three days of meetings, 
the 100 or so participants shared a Chinese  meal and learned about Chinese culture  through music, dance and games. THE SOCIAL SIDE Of ENGINEERING
Cummins Vice President John Wall, the Company’s Chief Technical Officer,  
is fond of saying that engineering is a social exercise.
Cummins Vice President John Wall, the Company’s Chief 
Technical Officer, says engineers will work better together  if they know a little about each other’s culture and family.  He is joined on stage by Qi Wang, a Senior Supply Chain 
Analyst at Cummins. Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  121
Haoxiang Yang, a Product Reliability Engineer, 
helped organize the dinner. He said he hoped his fellow engineers gained an appreciation 
for Chinese history and culture, but also some 
understanding of the current Chinese market  for Cummins engines.
The evening included a skit where a young 
Chinese couple debated buying a Cummins 
engine to help the husband’s business, delaying their dream of owning their own home. While the skit included plenty of laughs, it also offered 
a number of insights into the challenges facing 
young families in China today. 
Conference participants said the cultural sessions 
are important for a variety of reasons.Jie Duan, a Technical Specialist in Advance Systems Integration in Columbus, said knowing your colleagues better can make it easier for 
someone who is shy or new to the Company  
to ask questions and share opinions.
Hélène Cornils, Director – Technical Operations 
Excellence for Components Engineering, said 
it’s sometimes easy to get overwhelmed by the 
numbers inherent in engineering.
“Unless you get to know someone it can be  
very difficult to really communicate,” she said. 
“You can share numbers, but you have to be  
able to communicate to share the interpretation of those numbers.”Andre Goodlett, Cummins Director of Diversity Relations, says one of the keys to leveraging the full benefit of diversity is creating the kind of inclusive environment where everyone feels comfortable to share their true feelings in a 
constructive way.
“Embracing diversity in the workplace means 
treating each other with dignity and respect when expressing or receiving different perspectives,”  
he said. “It’s in competing ideas that we truly  
see the power of diversity.”
Attendees at the engineering conference wear 
authentic Chinese jackets.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  122
TODAY, HE IS BUILDING A BETTER LIfE AT CUmmINS
For Rogerio Santos, soccer was everything. A forward in football-mad  
Brazil, he dreamed of playing for one of the country’s top teams.  
Then, everything changed in an instant.
On May 26, 2006, Santos was shot during an 
attempted robbery. He suffered permanent damage to his back and legs. Instead of 
spending his days dribbling a soccer ball,  
he was suddenly confined to a wheelchair.
Today, however, Santos is building a new life 
at Cummins, inspiring his co-workers as he 
goes about his job at the Company’s Guarulhos 
campus outside São Paulo. He’s learning English, developing his business skills and Santos is demonstrating what people with disabilities  can bring to a workplace. 
“I do not see myself as disabled,” Santos said.  
“I am a much happier, stronger person than  when I used to walk because I have people beside me who love me and support me.”
Santos has been at Cummins for the past five 
years, and currently works as an assistant in the Cummins Turbo Technologies planning area.  Prior to that, he was working as an assistant  in aftermarket sales, where he was supervised  by Marcelo Franco Giannini, who was fairly  
new to the Company then.
Giannini wasn’t quite sure how to manage 
someone with disabilities, but he pretty quickly realized Santos was a hard worker, with a strong 
desire to better himself and build his career.
Santos said it took a long time for him to reach 
that point. He spent more than a month in the hospital after he was shot and more than two years living with his mother and sister as he 
recovered from his injuries. Santos said he  
fell into a downward spiral then. His marriage ended. His relationship with his son suffered.
One day, he saw his mother crying out of 
concern for him. That’s when he vowed to 
change his life.
Rogerio Santos and Marcello Franco Giannini helped established  
a Special Needs and Abilities Affinity Group at Cummins in Brazil.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  123
“I decided then that it was time to get out  
of the pit,” Santos said.
He dedicated himself to his physical therapy 
sessions, and eventually fell in love with and 
married his therapist. When he became strong enough, he began looking for a job. Santos knew he would need to find a workplace that 
supported people with disabilities. He heard 
Cummins was such an employer.
Giannini and others worked to create an 
environment where a person in a wheelchair could thrive. That meant having the copy 
machine in the right place, keeping  
the aisles wide and making some  accommodations in the bathroom.
“It was pretty small stuff,” Giannini said.  
“It just required a little bit of thought.”
A co-worker who had spent time in Cummins’ 
headquarters city of Columbus, Indiana, had seen the Special Needs and Abilities Affinity  Group there helping people with disabilities  in the workplace. She suggested Giannini  
use the knowledge he had gained working  
with Santos to establish a similar employee resource group in Brazil.
Santos and Giannini both serve on the affinity 
group today, working to help Cummins create  
a welcoming work environment in Brazil for people with disabilities.
“Rogerio tells them ‘If I can make it, if I can build 
a better life, then so can you,’” Giannini said. 
Santos is now a part of the office fabric. He has 
even gone sky-diving with friends from work.
“The one quality he has really brought to the 
Company is commitment,” Giannini said. “His 
commitment is an inspiration to other employees 
and it makes our offices a better place to work.”Rogerio Santos went skydiving 
with friends from the office.
“I DO NOT SEE mYSELf  
AS DISABLED. I Am A mUCH  
HAPPIER, STRONGER PERSON  
THAN wHEN I USED TO w ALk 
BECAUSE I HAVE PEOPLE  
BESIDE mE wHO LOVE mE  
AND SUPPORT mE.”
ROGERIO SANTOS
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT ,  
CUMMINS TURBO TECHNOLOGIESCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  124
DIVERSITY PROCUREmENT AT CUmmINS  
IS A BOTTOm LINE STRATEGY
While Cummins believes diversity procurement is consistent with the Company’s 
Corporate Responsibility value to “serve and improve the communities in which 
we live,” officials consider it a key business strategy with bottom line benefits.
Developing diverse suppliers gives the  
Company a competitive advantage by  increasing competition for its business  
needs. At the same time, it creates economic 
opportunities within all the communities  where Cummins employees live and work.
“We are definitely looking for suppliers who 
can add value to what we do at Cummins,” 
said Michelle Taylor, the Company’s Diversity Procurement Leader. “Diversity procurement helps build stronger communities, but the business case for supplier diversity is very clear.”
The Company continued to near the  
$1 billion mark in spending with diverse  suppliers in 2013, reaching $990.4 million,  an increase of 11 percent over 2012.  
The Company achieved the increase  
despite challenging economic conditions.Since 2009, spending on diverse suppliers  at Cummins has increased almost 130 percent  from the $432.70 million recorded five years ago.
The Diversity Procurement staff focused on 
improving communications with suppliers in 2013, developing a new Cummins Diversity Procurement website. The website will include 
webinars, videos of Cummins leaders talking 
about diversity procurement and the latest opportunities for diverse suppliers to bid  on the Company’s supply chain needs. 
“It’s critical for us to get the word out about  
the opportunities we have for diverse suppliers 
here at Cummins,” Taylor said. “We want to develop all the potential channels for communicating our message, whether it’s online, 
social media or taking our message on the  
road and meeting with people in small groups.”RIGHT ENVIRONmENT // DIVERSITY PROCUREmENT
Cummins Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger meets with  
diverse suppliers from around the Midwestern United States. Cummins is an active participant in events sponsored by  the Mid-States Minority Supplier Development Council.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  125
On that front, Taylor plans to significantly expand 
a program initiated in 2012 called “Conversations with Cummins.” Working in partnership with  
the National Minority Supplier Development 
Council, these conversations are designed to bring together Cummins officials with diverse suppliers from around the country in an effort to 
brief those suppliers on enterprise-wide growth 
opportunities at the Company.These growth opportunities often require capacity planning on the part of suppliers and Taylor wants to be sure diverse suppliers are aware of what will be coming up at Cummins.
The diversity procurement staff also arranged  
for Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger to host  a breakfast with top diverse suppliers from around the Midwest in partnership with the  
Mid-States Minority Supplier Development 
Council, which includes Central Illinois,  Indiana and Eastern Missouri. 
“Tom is still new to a lot of people so it’s very 
important that diverse suppliers hear from  
him and hear his expectations for suppliers  
at Cummins,” Taylor said.
The diversity procurement team is also  
reaching out by sponsoring a Diverse  
Suppliers Symposium May 16, 2014  
at a Columbus, Indiana-area hotel.
“My hope is that many of the suppliers attending 
the symposium won’t have done any business with Cummins,” Taylor said. “I want this to be a 
showcase for companies that are ready to play  
a key role in our supply chain.”
 
 
 The Diversity Procurement staff is also looking 
to identify promising minority suppliers through its membership on the National Minority Supplier Development Council’s Automotive Industry 
Group. 
Members of the group, which includes 
automakers such as Chrysler, a pioneer in supplier diversity, share best practices as well 
as the names of successful minority-owned 
businesses. Taylor is currently serving as Vice President of the group.
While diversity procurement has been primarily a 
U.S. function, the team is also trying to spread the 
word about its benefits outside the United States.
The Diversity Procurement staff is working with 
each Cummins Area Business Organization (ABO) around the world to help them connect 
with organizations that promote minority  
suppliers and women-owned businesses. 
Each ABO is developing its own growth  
targets as well as its own definition of what constitutes a diverse supplier in its particular 
region of the world. 
“We’ve made some significant progress in  
places like China and the U.K.,” Taylor said.  “I’m hopeful this will really help take our  
diversity procurement efforts international.”
Spending on diverse suppliers
in millions of dollars
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013The total amount of money Cummins has been 
spending with diverse suppliers since 2008. 
$890 $810.10 $544.90 $432.70 $571.60 
$990.40 2505007501000Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  126
COmPENSATION / BENEfITS
Providing a competitive compensation and 
benefits package is important at Cummins. 
The health and well-being of the Company’s 
employees is a priority at all global locations  and Cummins has developed programs tailored to the needs of employees and their families.
Compensation, health and retirement benefits 
vary by location and are designed to be competitive within the local markets and countries where the Company does business. For Cummins, this means the Company strives 
to strike the right balance between local market 
practice and Cummins’ values and principles.  The Company believes this approach  improves our ability to recruit and retain  
high-quality people.RIGHT ENVIRONmENT // EmPLOYEE DEVELOPmENT
Office employees get a chance to learn more about what the 
Cummins Engine Beijing Co., Ltd. does at quarterly “Workshop Days.” The event is designed to improve communication  between office workers and shop floor personnel.
HELPING EmPLOYEES SUCCEED  
IS kEY GOAL AT CUmmINS
The right work environment for success starts when a new Cummins employee 
begins OnBoarding and continues through the highest levels of the Company.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  127
Cummins takes an innovative approach in  
its compensation and benefits programs.  In healthcare, for example, the Company has 
hired a chief medical officer to help Cummins 
build a culture of health and well-being. 
In addition, the Company provides employees 
and their families with a number of resources  
to support their health and well-being, including 
programs to track and prioritize health and fitness, medical plans that encourage consumer-driven decision making, and tools for employees to understand their retirement investment options 
and track their progress.
STARTING Off
New Cummins employees are introduced to the 
Company’s Performance Management System 
during OnBoarding classes. The web-based 
program was created to ensure employees know their managers’ expectations, including what they need to accomplish and how to improve. 
The system provides the consistent feedback 
employees need to develop and succeed, from a 
wide range of stakeholders including peers and direct reports – not just an employee’s manager. 
With more than half of Cummins’ employees 
living outside the United States, the Company 
takes a global view of workforce development. The system is available in multiple languages  and includes about 26,000 employees.LEADERSHIP DEVELOPmENT
Leaders and managers learn early on that 
they must master five skill areas that Cummins 
believes are essential to great leadership:
 »Coach and develop
 »Foster open communications
 »Manage diversity
 »Talent management
 »Think strategically / Set the aim
To accomplish this, the Company targets leaders 
at various stages in their careers, recognizing  that nothing is as career-limiting as a bad boss 
who doesn’t help his or her employees reach 
their full potential.
One of Cummins’ most successful programs has 
been the “Building Success in Others” initiative. 
Launched in 2011, this multi-component 
program includes web-based courses, live webinars and an intensive, three and a half day course focused primarily on helping leaders of professional employees better understand the 
expectations the Company has for them as 
leaders and develop the skills necessary to fulfill those expectations.
The program has now been implemented  
in China, India, Singapore, South Africa,  
South Korea, the United Kingdom and  the United States. Close to 5,000 managers are part of  the Building Success in Others program.  In addition, the program provides training  
support to the managers of this group so  
that they can provide ongoing support and coaching needed to successfully implement  the skills participants learn during the program.
The Global Leadership Development Program  
is another leadership development program.  It moved to South America and Africa in the  past year. The 18-month program prepares  15-to-20 high potential employees from one  
of the Company’s Area Business Organizations 
for global leadership roles. This program plays a major role in developing future leaders from outside the United States.
Finally, efforts continued to develop high 
performing teams at the executive level of the Company. This development initiative focuses  on dealing with team members in an authentic way to build trust, better resolve conflicts and 
improve decision making.
Continuous improvement is expected of any 
Cummins employee, whether that employee  has just started with the Company or has  
been with Cummins for more than 20 years. 
 Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  128
In keeping with that approach, the Company 
updated its Supplier Code of Conduct in 2013 to make it more global in scope while addressing 
new regulatory issues such as conflict minerals.
The Supplier Code of Conduct, which Cummins 
first established in 2005, is today built around seven principles:
01 Suppliers must follow the law.
02 Suppliers must treat all people  
humanely and with dignity and respect.
03 Suppliers must do business fairly and  honestly and avoid conflicts of interest.
CUmmINS UPDATES  
SUPPLIER CODE Of CONDUCT
Cummins believes good governance is foundational for a truly sustainable 
company. That’s why the Company constantly updates the policies and 
procedures guiding not only employee conduct, but the conduct of the 
companies that supply Cummins.GOVERNANCE, RISk mANAGEmENT, GLOBAL SECURITY, GOVERNmENT RELATIONS
GOVERNANCE
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry visits the new Beijing Foton-
Cummins heavy duty engine production facility, hailing it as  a vivid example of mutually beneficial collaboration between  China and industries in the United States. He stopped at the  
plant during a tour through Asia. To learn more about the  
Company’s government relations initiatives, go to page 136.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  129
04 Suppliers must protect the environment.
05 Suppliers must provide a safe  
and healthy working environment.
06 Suppliers must protect Cummins  technology, information and  intellectual property.
07 Suppliers must assist Cummins  in enforcing this Code.
Each principle includes compliance  
guidelines to make the Code more user-friendly. For example, under principle No. 2 regarding 
treating people with dignity and respect, the 
Code states: “Suppliers should have formal policies prohibiting harassment, discrimination and ensuring fair treatment of all employees.”  
It also states suppliers must respect employees’ 
right to bargain collectively and bans forced or child labor.
Under principle No. 4 dealing with protecting  
the environment, the Code states: “Suppliers 
should establish means by which they 
understand the identity and quantity of the chemicals and compounds used in their operations and products.” It also states that 
suppliers “should develop robust means by  
which they monitor, measure and validate their use of materials and resources, discharges  and emissions to understand and reduce  their impact on the environment.”The Code has been translated into 14 languages 
and is prominently posted on the Company’s 
Supplier Web Portal (a link is available on Cummins’ homepage at www.cummins.com).  The Company sent the updated code to its top 
suppliers representing 80 percent of Cummins’ 
total spending and has launched a new certification process in which those suppliers  will commit to comply with the Code.  The process was still underway as of  
the publishing of this report.
Finally, the Supplier Code of Conduct now 
addresses the issue of conflict minerals.  Conflict minerals are mined in conditions of 
armed conflict and human rights abuses in  
the Democratic Republic of Congo and  adjacent countries.
They include tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold. 
The Code states that Cummins will work with 
suppliers “and strive to ensure that minerals in 
our products come from conflict-free sources and that all suppliers are required to supply information about their use of these minerals  
to Cummins.”
Beginning in 2014, U.S. laws require companies 
that are publicly traded on U.S. exchanges to disclose whether they use the specified minerals in their products and the source of those 
minerals. Cummins has developed a process   
 
to analyze the use and source of the conflict 
minerals in our products and will comply with  the disclosure requirements. Cummins will 
continue to refine and enhance its conflict 
minerals program in 2014 and beyond.
CUmmINS CODE Of CONDUCT
The Supplier Code of Conduct aligns closely 
with the Company’s Code of Business Conduct 
which was updated in 2012 and released in 2013. The Company’s Code of Conduct protects and promotes the ethical behavior that makes Cummins a special place to work.
供应商商业行为准则
道德先行 — 每时每刻
Cummins’ updated Supplier Code of Conduct has  
been translated into 14 languages, including Chinese  (above), and addresses everything from human rights to  environmental protection. Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  130
The Code of Conduct is built around  
10 principles:
01 We will follow the law everywhere.
02 We will embrace diverse perspectives  
and backgrounds, and treat all people  with dignity and respect.
03 We will compete fairly and honestly.
04 We will avoid conflicts of interest.
05 We will demand that everything  we do leads to a cleaner, healthier  and safer environment.
06 We will protect our technology, our  information and our intellectual property.
07 We will demand that our financial  records are accurate and that  our reporting processes are clear  and understandable. 
08 We will strive to improve  our communities.
09 We will communicate honestly  and with integrity.
10 We will create a culture where  employees take responsibility  for ethical behavior.
 
 The Company’s 28-page Code of Conduct is translated into 16 languages and includes Frequently Asked Questions with each  principle to provide context and help  
guide Cummins employees.
Employees have multiple ways to report 
suspected violations of the Code, including  by talking with their supervisor or Human Resources representative, or by contacting  
a member of the Cummins legal staff. 
Cummins employees can also report their 
concerns through the Company’s ethics website or by calling the Cummins Ethics Help Line. 
Phone numbers for different locations around the 
world are listed on the ethics website. Employees can report suspected violations anonymously where permitted by law.
TRAINING
Cummins puts its Code of Conduct principles 
into practice through comprehensive compliance training, targeting appropriate employee  groups. Cummins Ethics and Compliance  
staff coordinates the training on topics such  
as conflicts of interest, intellectual property,  export compliance, fair competition and treatment of others. 
 The Company in 2013 updated its online training 
on anti-bribery through Cummins’ new in-house learning management system, the Cummins Learning Center. About 22,000 employees 
received the training in 19 languages to help 
facilitate understanding of this critical issue. About the same number of employees  received Code of Business Conduct  training in 16 languages in 2013.
ENfORCEmENT
Any effective code of conduct must have an 
enforcement mechanism. Cummins has a team of master investigators stationed around the 
world to investigate reported abuses. 
In 2013, Cummins investigated 1,367 reported 
Code violations, up from 1,196 in 2012. About  45 percent of those reports came from outside the United States and only 32 percent were 
reported anonymously.
About 50 percent of the total reports were 
ultimately substantiated, compared to 54 percent in 2012. Around 33 percent of the substantiated 
reports resulted in terminations compared to  
40 percent in 2012.
The average time to close a case was 14 days, 
up one day from 2012.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  131
Employees at all levels of the Company  
are frequently reminded that they have an obligation to report suspected violations of  
the Code. All reports are investigated and 
violations at any level of the Company are  acted on swiftly and appropriately.
Cummins’ senior leaders closely monitor  
reported violations and approve corrective 
actions. Each quarter, business unit leaders receive an update on reports in their region  or business.
Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger also  
receives updates and an annual update is 
reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Cummins Board of Directors.
ETHICS CERTIfICATION
Cummins employees annually certify their 
compliance with the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and related policies and  report any exceptions.
In 2013, 18,034 employees and officers –  
up from 17,666 in 2012, completed their  
annual Ethics Certification including all  members of the Board of Directors. 
Internal Audit and Cummins Law Department 
reviewed all exceptions to ensure they were 
documented and investigated, according to Company policy.GOVERNANCE BY THE NUmBERS
twenty-two thousand
Number of employees who took new  
Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption training in 2013
 114
Principles in Cummins’  Supplier Code of ConductLanguages the updated Cummins Supplier Code 
of Conduct has been 
translated into
eightfIfTY
SEVENMembers of Cummins’  Board of Directors
Cummins employees on 
the Board of DirectorsReported Code of Conduct 
violations reported in 2013
Percent of substantiated violations determined by Cummins’  
Master Investigators
Principles in Cummins  Code of Business Conduct1,367
10Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  132
CUmmINS’ BOARD Of DIRECTORS  
OVERSEES THE COmPANY
Cummins’ Board of Directors represents and protects the interests  
of the Company’s stakeholders, with the legal responsibility for  
overseeing the affairs of the Company.
The board consists of eight members with  
seven of the eight members coming from outside the Company. Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer Tom Linebarger is the only Cummins 
employee on the board. Each director must  stand for election annually.
In 2013, Board Director Carl Ware, a retired 
Coca-Cola Executive and President and  
Chief Operating Officer of Ware Investment Properties, retired from the board. He joined  the board in 2004.
The board is charged with exercising sound 
and independent business judgment regarding 
significant strategic and operational issues. It advises senior management and adopts governance principles consistent with  
Cummins’ Vision, Mission and Values.
 The board reflects the Company’s commitment 
to diversity with two women and one Latino man within its ranks. The board takes an active role in 
fulfilling its responsibilities, traveling, for example, 
to Cummins’ Rocky Mount Engine Plant in North Carolina in 2013 to see the Company’s facilities there and meet with key personnel. 
Board members have also attended the 
Company’s Six Sigma Expo, where employees present the top projects at Cummins using the business problem-solving tool, major Company announcements and have attended briefings  
on the Cummins-Peterbilt SuperTruck.  
The concept tractor-trailer is testing a number of features designed to improve fuel and freight efficiency (page 64). 
 
 ISSUES
The board monitors a number  
of issues, including:
 »The performance of the Company.
 »The performance of senior management.
 »Compliance with all applicable laws  and regulations.
 »Communications and relationships  with stakeholders. 
 »The effectiveness of internal controls  and risk management practices.
COmmITTEES
Cummins’ Board of Directors has  
six standing committees:
 »Compensation Committee
 »Governance and Nominating CommitteeCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  133
 »Audit Committee
 »Finance Committee
 »Safety, Environment and  
Technology Committee
» Executive Committee
Cummins complies with all New York  
Stock Exchange and regulatory  
requirements concerning the  
membership of certain committees.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The board and senior leaders of the Company 
get objective and independent information  
on the performance of the Company from 
Cummins’ Internal Audit department.
The Vice President – Internal Audit reports to  
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
The Internal Audit group published 82 audit 
reports and memos in 2013. To ensure management has addressed and identified  risks and implemented corrective action,  Internal Audit has a formal follow up process.
The responsible business or functional leader 
must present a corrective action plan to the  Audit Committee of the Board of Directors when a function or business receives an 
“unacceptable” audit grade.BOARD mEmBERS 
ROBERT J. BERNHARD
Vice President for Research and a Professor of Engineering  
at the University of Notre Dame. He joined the board in 2008.
DR. fRANkLIN R. CHANG DIAz
Chairman and CEO of the Ad Astra Rocket Company,  a spaceflight engineering company based in Houston, Texas.  He joined the board in 2009.
STEPHEN B. DOBBS
Senior Group President at Fluor Corporation, a Fortune 500 company that offers engineering, procurement, construction, maintenance and project management services. He joined the board in 2010.
ROBERT k. HERDmAN
Managing Director of Kalorama Partners, LLC, a Washington, D.C.-based consulting firm. He joined the board in 2008.
ALExIS HERmAN
Chairman and CEO of New Ventures, LLC, a corporate  consulting company. She joined the board in 2001 and  currently serves as Lead Director.
N. THOmAS LINEBARGER
Chairman and CEO of Cummins Inc. since January 2012.  He joined the board in 2009.
wILLIAm I. mILLER
President of the New York-based Wallace Foundation focused  on K-12 education and the arts. He joined the board in 1989.
GEORGIA R. NELSON
President and CEO of PTI Resources, LLC, an independent  consulting firm. She joined the board in 2004.
Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  134
RISk mANAGEmENT kEY TO SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainable risk management is more than just protecting a company’s  
critical assets. It is actively managing risks to protect the company’s business, 
its people and its reputation. Risk management is also about taking acceptable 
risks to pursue opportunities that allow a company to deliver business 
objectives and strategies, and increase stakeholder value.
Helping Cummins’ leaders evaluate and  
manage risk, in all its forms and from all perspectives, is the goal of the Company’s  
Risk Management team. 
The team has been evolving in recent years 
since its shift in 2012 to the Corporate Strategy function. It is wrapping up work on establishing 
Business Continuity Plans for nearly every 
Cummins location, about 500 sites in all, including all wholly owned and joint venture Distribution Business Unit (DBU) sites by  the end of 2014. 
 Business Continuity Plans allow site leaders 
to recognize key risks in advance and prepare for major events that could impact their sites, employees, and ultimately their ability to serve 
Cummins’ customers. The goal of Business  
 Continuity Plans is to limit business exposure to risks and speed recovery to normal operation.
Each site with a plan is required to update it 
annually and also run a scenario exercise to  
test the resilience of the plan. 
The team is looking for opportunities to 
streamline the Business Continuity Planning 
Process for the sites. In addition, it is also looking 
at locations where Cummins has clusters of sites such as Columbus, Indiana, and San Luis Potosí, Mexico. There might need to be a shared response to an emergency in those places.
The Risk Management team also continues to 
prepare a dashboard for the Cummins Board of Directors and senior leaders outlining the biggest risks facing the Company. The dashboard is 
updated to reflect changes in risks both in and 
outside Cummins.While business continuity planning and the dashboard will likely always be key responsibilities for the team in the future, it wants to make 
progress on broadening its approach to 
managing risk in 2014. The next step will take place as the team develops a risk vision and mission for the group. The team will be piloting 
further risk management processes in various 
areas throughout the Company in 2014.
“We want to provide our businesses with a 
systematic and collaborative framework for evaluating risk that is embedded into their 
existing strategic and operational processes,” 
said Nicole McDonald, Director – Enterprise Risk Management. “Our goal is to help them identify, evaluate and respond to risk in a consistent way 
that enables the Company to achieve its strategic 
and operational business objectives.”Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  135
kEEPING CUmmINS ‘SAfE. SURE. SECURE.’ 
Cummins Global Security is chartered to protect employees, facilities and 
information assets by implementing risk reduction strategies across the globe. 
Achieving this requires a sustainable security program that is collaborative in 
nature and delivers services that are aligned with the Company’s strategic 
growth objectives. 
In early 2013, Global Security completed a Six 
Sigma project which identified the need for a mechanism that would allow Cummins to share 
intelligence and respond to security requests 
around the world. By October 2013, it introduced a virtual operations center known as the Cummins Response Center (CRC).
The CRC provides around-the-clock capability  
for medical, security, travel assistance requests, or emergency team activation. The response center puts employees and Cummins entities first, providing real value and quality and the  
right tools and people to deliver sound security 
support across the Company.
“The goal of the CRC is to increase our ability 
to respond in a timely, meaningful and accurate 
manner to better secure Cummins’ assets,”  said Shelley Stewart, Executive Director  
of Global Security.
The response center maintains a unified system 
for communication that can handle a vast array of 
intelligence. This system allows decision-makers to share information and connect from any location at any time. Real-time information can  
be easily transformed into actionable intelligence 
that is accurate and relevant to the customer.
Through the CRC, Cummins has a flexible and 
virtual solution that yields the following benefits  to its employees and businesses and meets 
unique operational challenges:
 »Shared access to security resources across 
the Company; transparency and virtually accessible communication services. »Improved operational efficiency; enhanced collaboration across corporate entities and Area Business Organizations. 
Global Security is looking to implement  a security culture where employees take  personal responsibility not only for their  own security, but the security of their fellow 
employees and the Company. 
The strategy will also focus on communicating 
the value of the response center, and how the program is accessible via hotline or e-mail. 
“Now, more than ever, Global Security is 
responsible for enabling long-term success 
by making decisions that will allow for future growth,” Stewart said.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  136
GOVERNmENT RELATIONS  
AND POLITICAL ACTIVITY
Cummins’ government relations employees are working around the world on 
issues that might have a significant impact on the Company, such as energy 
policy, environmental legislation, taxes, trade, transportation and more.
The Company maintains an office in Washington, 
D.C., but with more than half of Cummins’ sales coming from outside the United States, 
the Company also has government relations 
employees in China, Brazil and India.
These employees work to ensure that Cummins’ 
voice is heard. For example, the Company 
works extensively to promote and protect global 
emissions standards from delay or modification and supports government efforts to establish greenhouse gas and fuel consumption  
standards for commercial vehicles. 
The Cummins government relations staff also 
works to foster greater international cooperation 
and understanding. Working with the U.S. government, Cummins has hosted international 
visitors to the Company’s headquarters in 
Columbus, Indiana, and various other sites to learn about best practices on emissions enforcement, development of fuel economy standards, and combined heat and power projects.
Cummins belongs to a number of trade 
organizations to further its business interests. These organizations help the Company  by leveraging Cummins’ resources with  
other companies on issues where we  
share similar positions. 
While Cummins might not agree with the 
positions these associations take on every  issue, the Company believes participating in 
these groups helps ensure government officials 
know where Cummins stands on matters  critical to the Company.
CORPORATE CONTRIBUTIONS
Cummins bans contributions using corporate 
funds to candidates, political parties and 
A Chinese government delegation visits the Cummins  
Technical Center in Columbus, Indiana, to learn more about U.S. EPA greenhouse gas emissions regulations and how Cummins has gone about meeting them. Emissions are a 
major issue for environmental regulators in China. Arranging 
these kind of visits is one of many things done by Cummins government relations team.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  137
independent expenditures, including 
advertisements that support or oppose  individual candidates.
The Company also will not use corporate funds 
to contribute to 501 (c) (4) and 527 tax-exempt groups in the United States that are engaged in political activity or make payments to influence 
issues unless the contribution or payment 
advances an issue directly tied to the  Company’s core values and business interests.
In those cases, Cummins is committed to  
publicly disclosing any payments including 
recipient names and amounts.
In 2013, the Company contributed $100,000 to 
Freedom Indiana, the principal opposition group to Indiana House Joint Resolution 3, a proposed 
amendment to the state constitution banning gay 
marriage (page 119). 
CIPAC
In the United States, political contributions are 
made by the Cummins Inc. Political Action 
Committee (CIPAC), but the committee is funded 
solely by voluntary employee contributions. CIPAC makes contributions to state and federal candidates on a bipartisan basis after review and 
approval by CIPAC’s Executive Committee  
and according to federal law.For a complete list of the political action committee’s contributions to candidates,  go to www.fec.gov.
CIPAC is governed by corporate policies  
and bylaws that state:
 »All CIPAC contributions are strictly voluntary.
 »The Company will not reimburse employees 
directly or indirectly for political contributions.
 »Employees will not be pressured to  
contribute to CIPAC or make any other personal political contribution.
 »A decision not to contribute to CIPAC shall not 
disadvantage an employee’s career in any way.
Contributions to political candidates and political 
organizations are based on the following criteria:
 »Public integrity of the candidate.
 »Representation of a Cummins facility  or employees.
 »Support for issues of importance to Cummins.
 »Timely and effective constituent service.
 »Political leadership or organization.
 »Support for the Company’s values.
All of CIPAC’s political activities are disclosed to the Cummins Board of Directors in an annual political contribution report.LOBBYING
The following is a list of U.S. trade organizations 
to which Cummins paid dues in excess of 
$50,000 during calendar year 2013 and the  
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which fell below  the $50,000 threshold.
Listed with each entity is Cummins’  
estimation of the portion of these dues used  
by each organization for lobbying or other  political expenditures.
The American Trucking Association
The Business Roundtable
The Diesel Technology forum
  $127
The Engine manufacturers Association
The National Association of manufacturers
U.S. Chamber of Commerce
$12,780
$12,500$15,759$26,283
$8,682Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  138
Cummins’ work in 2013 has positioned the 
Company for profitable growth to benefit all  of its stakeholders when better economic 
conditions return. 
In 2013, Cummins and its unconsolidated  
joint ventures invested $1 billion in capital expenditure projects. The Company also  
spent over $700 million on research and 
development which will help secure  Cummins’ long-term growth and sustainability.
“The most important way we can provide long 
term value to our stakeholders is to invest in 
products and projects that drive profitable growth 
and strong returns on investment,” said Cummins Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger.
CUmmINS CREATES SHAREHOLDER VALUE IN 2013
Even in the face of difficult global economic conditions in 2013, Cummins 
generated a record $2.1 billion in cash from operations, continued investing in 
new technology, launched more than 70 new or updated products and partnered 
with its customers to help them succeed and expand in markets across the globe.fINANCIAL
fINANCIAL
Cummins leaders announce that production  
of a light duty diesel will start at the Columbus Engine  Plant in Columbus, Indiana, for the next generation of the Nissan Titan pickup truck.Cummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  139
In addition to investing in new products and the 
Company’s distribution network, Cummins also 
increased cash returned to shareholders in 2013. The Company raised its dividend by 25 percent and repurchased 3.3 million shares of Cummins stock, returning to shareholders a total of  
$801 million, nearly 40 percent of the  
Company’s operating cash flow.
“I am pleased that in this environment of  
weak global growth, we were able to generate 
record cash flow from operations that allowed  
us to continue to invest in the business and increase the cash returned to shareholders  by 34 percent in 2013,” Linebarger said.
 
 
 YEAR AT A GLANCE
Revenues for all of 2013 were $17.3 billion, flat 
with 2012. North American revenues increased 3 percent but were offset by international sales which declined by 4 percent. Within international markets, declines in Mexico, India, Australia and 
Europe offset growth in China and Brazil. 
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT), 
excluding special items, were $2.16 billion in 2013 or 12.5 percent of sales, compared to 
$2.35 billion or 13.6 percent of sales in 2012. 
Net income attributable to Cummins for the full 
year was $1.48 billion ($7.91 per diluted share), down from $1.68 billion ($8.83 per diluted share) in 2012, excluding special items. Cash from 
operations was a record $2.1 billion, compared 
to $1.5 billion in 2012.The Components division, which produces 
exhaust aftertreatment systems, filters, 
turbochargers and fuel systems, recorded  record revenue in 2013, but the Company’s Engine and Power Generation businesses  saw no growth over the course of the year  
as weakness in international markets offset  
growth in North America.
“We faced weak demand in important regions 
and end markets in 2013,” Linebarger said. 
“Revenues for the year ended flat with 2012  
as strong growth in the Components business, market share gains in the North American medium-duty truck market and distributor acquisitions offset weakness in global mining 
markets, international power generation and  
the North American heavy-duty market.”“THE mOST ImPORTANT w AY wE CAN PROVIDE LONG TERm VALUE TO OUR STAkEHOLDERS 
IS TO INVEST IN PRODUCTS AND PROJECTS THAT DRIVE PROfITABLE GROwTH AND 
STRONG RETURNS ON INVESTmENT .”
TOm LINEBARGER 
CUMMINS CHAIRMAN AND CEOCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  140
Nevertheless, 2013 had many significant 
highlights, including: 
 »Cummins opened a new joint venture plant  
in China and began production of the new  
L9.3 engine targeting customers in the  Chinese construction market as well as  other parts of the world. 
 »The Company entered into a new partnership in North America with a customer who will use the Cummins 5.0L V8 Turbo diesel engine to increase its product offerings (page 36).
 »Cummins announced plans to acquire 
the remaining equity in its North America 
distributors to leverage their expertise and provide customers the best support.
 »Cummins was named Diesel Progress North 
American magazine’s 2013 Newsmaker of the 
Year for introducing a broad range of on- and off-highway engines and power systems.
 »Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., raised the Company’s credit rating to “A3” in 2013 
and changed Cummins’ outlook to “stable.” 
Meanwhile, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services and Fitch Ratings confirmed the Company’s   rating as “A” subsequent to the third quarter issuance of $1 billion in debt.
 »The Company was named to Gartner’s Supply 
Chain Top 25 list finishing 23rd. The list honors 
companies that integrate supply, demand and products into a “profitable response.”
LOOkING AHEAD
Cummins’ leaders believe economic conditions 
will remain challenging in 2014, but there are several key macroeconomic and industry trends that will drive sustained growth opportunities for Cummins, including:
 »The implementation of new emission  standards around the world.
 »Increasing fuel costs driving customers  to focus on the fuel economy
 »Rising electricity needs growing faster  than supply.
 »Further globalization where Cummins’  partners look for continued growth  outside their home markets.
 »Increasing infrastructure needs and investments in developing countries.
 These trends, combined with Cummins leading technology, unmatched global presence and strong partnerships with the world’s leading 
and fastest growing Original Equipment 
Manufacturers (OEMs), will allow the Company to capture and maintain strong market positions and ultimately grow Cummins’ business  
profitably and sustainably to the benefit  
of all Cummins’ stakeholders.
fINANCIAL PERfORmANCE AT A GLANCE
Here’s a summary of Cummins’ performance since 2009. 
Year Sales Net income  
  attributable to Cummins
2009 $10.8 billion $428 million
2010 $13.2 billion $1.04 billion
2011 $18 billion $1.85 billion
2012 $17.3 billion $1.68 billion
2013 $17.3 billion $1.48 billionCummins Inc.  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013–2014  141
ENVIRONmENT
Cummins’ new environmental  
sustainability goals ....................................... 21
GHG emissions, 2013 ................................. 41
GHG goal .................................................... 41
Water use, 2013 .......................................... 43
Water use, 2010-2013 ................................. 44
Disposed waste, 2010-2013 ....................... 45
U.S. processed hazardous waste,  2010-2013 .................................................. 45
Waste footprint composition ........................ 45
Waste recycling ........................................... 45
Energy use by fuel type, 2010-2013 ............ 46
Energy use by facility type, 2013 ................. 46
U.S. and non-U.S. GHG emissions,  2010-2013 .................................................. 46
Recycled materials, 2010-2013 ................... 46GHG emissions by country .......................... 47
GHG emissions by business unit ................. 47
GHG emissions by type ............................... 47
Global building standards ............................ 48
HSE Environmental Management System .... 48
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Employee community service hours ............. 70
United Way giving ........................................ 72
Environmental Challenge winners ............ 78-79
Philanthropy grants ............................... 96-101
SAfETYIncidence Rate .......................................... 105
Severity Case Rate .................................... 105
Major Injuries and Dangerous  
Occurrences Rate ...................................... 105
Severity Case Rate, 2003-2013 ................. 106
Incidence Case Rate, 2003-2013 .............. 106DIVERSITY
Country of Birth Workforce, 2008-2013 ..... 118
Country of Birth Leaders, 2008-2013 ........ 118
Women at Cummins, 2008-2013 ............... 118
Women Leaders at Cummins,  
2008-2013 ................................................ 118
Workforce by location, 2013 ...................... 118
Spending with diverse suppliers,  2008-2013 ................................................ 125
GOVERNANCE
Supplier Code of Conduct ......................... 128
Cummins Code of Conduct violations ........ 130
Lobbying expenditures .............................. 137
Funds for tax exempt groups ..................... 137
fINANCIALSales, net income, 2008-2013 ................... 140SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DISCLOSURES
The Cummins Sustainability Report is done in the spirit of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI). In that spirit, the Company is listing here disclosures in the 
report although this does not follow the GRI format:Printed on 100% 
post-consumer recycled paper
RESOURCE USAGE
COVER & INTERIOR  Printed on FSC®-certified  
paper manufactured with electricity that is made  
with 100 percent Certified Renewable Energy,  
from non-polluting wind power projects.  
The 100 percent post-consumer waste fiber  used to make this paper is process-chlorine  free and is Green-Seal certified.PRODUCTION NOTES 
Design and writing: Cummins Corporate Communications 
Printing: The Merrick Printing Company CONTACTS
marya Rose 
Vice President – Chief Administrative Officer 
One American Square, Suite 1800 
Indianapolis, IN 46282
mark Levett 
Vice President – Corporate Responsibility 
Chief Executive Officer –  The Cummins Foundation 
500 Jackson Street 
Columbus, IN 47201  
Blair Claflin (Editor) 
Director – Sustainability Communications 
One American Square, Suite 1800 Indianapolis, IN 46282 
(317) 610-2542
CUmmINS’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING DOESN’T END wITH THIS DOCUmENT . 
Go to our website – www.cummins.com/sustainability – for regular updates on how we’re meeting  
the needs of all of our stakeholders and practicing good corporate citizenship.
Products mentioned in this report are covered  
by copyright and trademark protections.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013– 2014 Cummins Inc.
        Strengthening communities
Cummins Inc.
Box 3005
Columbus, Indiana 47202-3005
U.S.A.
cummins.com
©2014 Cummins Inc.
Printed in U.S.A. 05/14 
Bulletin Number 4986128