Meeting the Challenges 
of Global Sustainability
Cummins Inc.        Sustainability Report   2009  – 2010
Cummins  Inc.
Box 3005
Columbus,  IN 47202-3005
U.S.A.
cummins.com
©2010  Cummins  Inc.
Bulletin  Number  4986092
Cummins supports EARTH University’s  
mission to promote sustainable agriculture
302557_Cummins_TEST.indd  1 6/8/10  4:08 PMCover: Printed on an acid-free blend of 10% banana stalk fibers 
(a by-product of the banana industry) and 90% post-consumer paper at EARTH University, Costa Rica.
Cover printed on  
90% post-consumer  
recycled paper
Interior printed on  100% post-consumer  recycled paperProduction Notes 
Design and writing: Cummins Corporate Communications 
Printing: The Merrick Printing Company 
Resource Usage
The savings below are achieved when post-
consumer recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber to create 312 pounds of paper.
3 trees preserved for the future
8 pounds of water-borne waste not created
1,145  gallons of wastewater flow saved
127 pounds of solid waste not generated
249 pounds of net greenhouse gases prevented
1,909,440  BTUs of energy not consumed
The savings below are achieved when post-
consumer recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber to create 2,940 pounds of paper.
28 trees preserved for the future
81 pounds of water-borne waste not created
11,989  gallons of wastewater flow saved
1,327  pounds of solid waste not generated
2,612  pounds of net greenhouse gases prevented
19,992,000  BTUs of energy not consumed
Additional savings since paper is manufactured 
with wind power and carbon offsets.
1,326  pounds of GHG emissions not generated
1.4 barrels of fuel oil unused
Equivalent of not driving 1,312 miles
Equivalent of planting 90 treesInterior: Printed on 100% recycled post-consumer paper 
manufactured with electricity that is made with 100% Certified Renewable Energy, from non-polluting wind power projects.  The 100% post-consumer waste fiber used to make this paper is process-chlorine free and is Green-seal certified. On the cover 
Students get hands-on experience when they learn 
about sustainable agriculture at EARTH University in Costa Rica. These students are weighing beans to determine who had the biggest yield. Students come from all over the world to the university, which is supported by Cummins both financially and in employees’ time and expertise.
302557_Cummins_IFC.indd   1 7/6/10   11:42:48 AM1 IntroductionWho we are
Vision
Making people’s lives better by unleashing  
the Power of Cummins 
Mission
We unleash the Power of Cummins by
tMotivating people to act like owners working together.
tExceeding customer expectations by always being 
the ﬁrst to market with the best products.
tPartnering with our customers to make sure  they succeed.
tDemanding that everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment.
tCreating wealth for all stakeholders. 
Values
What do we value?
Integrity: Strive to do what is right and do what 
we say we will do
Innovation: Apply the creative ingenuity necessary 
to make us better, faster, ﬁrst
Deliver Superior Results: 
Exceed expectations, consistently
Corporate Responsibility: Serve and improve 
the communities in which we live
Diversity: Embrace the diverse perspectives of all 
people and honor both with dignity and respect
Global Involvement: Seek a world view and act 
without boundariesStrategic Principles
Leverage Complementary Businesses Cummins is a family of complementary businesses that create value for our customers by leveraging  relationships and applying innovative technology across business boundaries.
Increase Shareholder Value 
Cummins’ ﬁnancial success is measured by growth in shareholder value. We will focus on ROE/ROANA and Earnings growth (not revenue growth) as the principal drivers of shareholder value.
Become the Low Cost Producer 
Cummins will pursue an operational strategy of  cost leadership.
Lead in Critical Technologies 
Cummins will be the market leader in technologies most critical to our customers’ success and our  company’s performance.
Seek Proﬁtable Growth 
Cummins will seek proﬁtable growth by leveraging our assets and capabilities to grow in market segments with favorable industry dynamics and where Cummins can establish an advantage.
Create the Right Work Environment 
Cummins will assure that the physical and cultural work environment is conducive to excellent  performance and continuous improvement. 
Personality
What is our personality? %FDJTJWFt%SJWFOUP8JOt"HJMFt1BTTJPOBUFt$BSJOH
I am Cummins. You can depend on me.2 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010About this report
The information in this report is presented in the  
spirit of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The goal of the initiative is to develop a consistent way for companies around the world to voluntarily report on the economic, environmental and social components of their businesses. The GRI was started in 1997 by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies and then became independent in 2002 and today works in collaboration with the United Nations Environment Program and the UN Secretary-General’s Global Compact.
Cummins takes pride in the positive impact our 
people and products have on society. As a global company, Cummins wants to make a difference today and for future generations as well. This report was published in July 2010 and is the Company’s seventh annual edition.About the cover
The cover of this year’s Sustainability Report feels and looks different because it is made out of a blend of banana stalk ﬁbers and post-consumer paper at Cummins-supported EARTH University in Costa Rica. 
Typically, after the fruit is harvested the banana  
stalk is disposed of in landﬁlls or by other means.  In Costa Rica alone, hundreds of thousands of tons of banana stalks are disposed of annually. Paper is only one of several ways the university is putting banana stalks to work. EARTH has also pioneered the use of a fertilizer made from banana stalks for fruit growers in Central America.
To learn more about EARTH University,  
go to page 14.
Contacts:
Jean Blackwell
Executive Vice President – Corporate ResponsibilityChief Executive Ofﬁcer, The Cummins FoundationOne American Square, Suite 1800Indianapolis, IN 46282 Marya M. RoseVice President – General CounselOne American Square, Suite 1800Indianapolis, IN 46282Mark D. LandExecutive Director – Corporate CommunicationsOne American Square, Suite 1800Indianapolis, IN 46282Ofﬁce: (317) 610-24563 IntroductionIntroduction
Letter from the chairman ...................0 4
Cummins by the numbers ..................06
Our commitment .........................08
History  ................................1 0
Recognition .............................1 2
EARTH University ..........................14
Environment
Raising the stakes  .......................18Environmental stewardship: Products .........22
India’s green ambassador ..................28
Environmental stewardship: Practices .........30
Seven ways our sites save energy ............32
Cummins and climate change: Q&A ..........37Darlington’s big year ......................38Environmental stewardship: Partnerships  ......40Collaborating with customers ...............42Combined heat and power .................43
Employee “envolvement” campaign  ..........44
Cummins College of Engineering for Women  .....46
Governance / Risk management
Foundation for business success  ............50
Cummins Board of Directors ................54
Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz  ...................56Managing risks ..........................5 8H1N1 response ..........................6 1
Ithemba Institute of Technology  ...............62Corporate responsibility
Building stronger communities  ..............64Philanthropy: A track record of commitment ....6 8Responding to disasters ...................6 9
Rising to our environmental challenges ........70Corporate responsibility funding .............78
Courage Center ...........................8 2
Employee relations
Creating a safe working environment. . . . . . . . . . 84
A dramatic change for the better .............8 6
Cell phone use banned: driver safety. . . . . . . . . . 87Connecting diversity to the bottom line ........8 8
Putting diversity into action .................9 2
Taking diversity to the next level  .............9 3Company recommits to $1 billion goal  ........9 4Smaller suppliers play critical role ............9 7Creating a sustainable workforce  ............9 8
LeMoyne-Owen College ....................10 2
Finance
Cummins remains strong in 2009 ...........10 4Six Sigma is 10 years old  .................10 7Our new strategic principle ................10 9Operating segments .....................11 0Table of contents
This year’s Sustainability Report celebrates Cummins’ signiﬁcant Corporate Responsibility  
partnerships starting on page 14 with a story about the Company’s involvement in  EARTH University. Other partnerships are proﬁled throughout the report.4 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Letter from the chairman
Cummins Stakeholder:
Over the past year, Cummins 
has continued to focus its efforts on keeping the Company strong during the global recession, which began late in 2008.
Our work to reduce costs, align manufacturing  capacity with demand and serve customers well  when they need us the most has allowed us to meet our goals of earning a solid proﬁt and generating the cash necessary to invest in critical technologies for  the future.
In these challenging economic times, I also am 
pleased to say that Cummins has not lost sight of  the importance of delivering on our commitments to customers, shareholders, employees, government  and the communities in which we operate. In fact,  the stakeholder model ﬁrst introduced at Cummins  40 years ago by then-Chairman J. Irwin Miller, remains a critical component to our long-term success.
As we look to a future that offers signiﬁcant growth 
prospects, our ability to create a sustainable global organization that is responsive to the needs of our stakeholders has never been more important. Our response to the complex challenges facing Cummins today is rooted in the values that deﬁne Cummins.
Acting with integrity. Doing our part to improve the  
communities where we live and work. Embracing  diversity. Operating with a global vision. Striving to always exceed the expectations of our customers. Being ﬁrst to market with innovative products  and services.
These statements represent Cummins’ core values, 
and our 36,000 employees worldwide continue to demonstrate their commitment to bringing these words to life every day. Cummins’ seventh annual Sustainability Report highlights the progress we  have made in the past year around these values.
As in past years, this year’s report contains a  
signiﬁcant emphasis on the Company’s corporate responsibility work.
Broadly speaking, Cummins operates under the  
philosophy that corporate responsibility is not simply something that is “nice to do,” but is a way of doing  business that contributes directly to the ﬁnancial health  of our company over the long-term.
Building successful, vibrant communities leads to 
stronger markets for our products. Being seen as a company that cares about all its stakeholders is essential to our efforts to attract and retain the most talented workers from around the world, which is  critical to the success of any global company.
In a similar fashion, part of Cummins’ Mission 
demands that everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier, safer environment. 
That commitment drives our work as a worldwide 
leader in emissions technology, which provides Cummins with a signiﬁcant competitive advantage.  It also is behind ongoing efforts to reduce the  environmental impact of our facilities, strengthen  our voice in the public policy debate around issues such as climate change and to engage our employees on ways they can make a difference.
This year’s Sustainability Report also focuses on 
the global nature of Cummins’ operations, and the challenges and opportunities that come with doing business in 190 countries worldwide.
More than half of Cummins’ employees work outside 
the United States, and approximately 60 percent  of the Company’s revenues are generated from  international markets, which offer some of our  strongest future growth prospects. 
5 IntroductionTo address the global challenges we face, we must 
have processes in place to ensure that our values effectively translate across the range of cultures in which we operate. It also is more important than  ever that we embrace and respect the diverse  perspectives of our employees and use those  differences to strengthen our business.
The global nature of our approach to sustainability  
is highlighted throughout this year’s report.  Here are just a few examples:
tOur “signature” Corporate Responsibility  
partnership with EARTH University in Costa Rica, which is proﬁled starting on page 14.  In addition to being the recipient of funds from  The Cummins Foundation, EARTH is receiving signiﬁcant help from Cummins employees across several areas of expertise in support of its mission  to provide world-class education in sustainable  agricultural techniques. In addition, we have included stories about other signiﬁcant Corporate Responsibility partnerships throughout the report.
tWork by Cummins engineers to provide power to  a rural village in India by converting a Cummins generator to run on vegetable oil extracted from the inedible seeds of a local tree. The project 
was one of ﬁve “President’s Award” winners in the Company’s ﬁrst-ever Environmental Challenge held  in 2009. All ﬁve projects are proﬁled beginning on page 70.
tThe signiﬁcant investment made in the Cummins Power Generation plant in Craiova, Romania, over the past year to create a more efﬁcient  and safer workplace. More than $700,000 was spent to replace old equipment, create a new walkway for employees and improve lighting throughout the plant.tA Q&A with Cummins’ newest Board member,  Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz, which starts on page 56. Dr. Chang-Diaz, Cummins’ ﬁrst non U.S.-born Director, is a former NASA astronaut and renowned rocket scientist who is leading an ambitious long- term effort to transform Costa Rica’s economy.  His commitment to the environment, the community and technical leadership aligns well with Cummins’ sustainability goals.
Just as we are constantly looking for ways to better serve our stakeholders around the world through our actions as a Company, we also have raised the bar this year on our sustainability reporting efforts. 
For the ﬁrst time, this year’s report contains a section 
devoted speciﬁcally to employee relations, and we have expanded on our safety and diversity discussions from past years. Perhaps most exciting, though, is the launch of our new Sustainability Web site.
The site will contain links to both the full and summary 
printed reports, and visitors will be able to quickly access material of their choosing through links to  individual sections of the report. The site also will offer additional stories, data, multimedia content and links to social media tools. 
I hope you will read our current Sustainability Report 
and visit the Sustainability site at www.cummins.com to learn more about our work to remain a responsible global corporate citizen that is responsive to the needs of all our stakeholders. 
Tim Solso
Chairman and Chief Executive OfﬁcerCummins Inc.
6 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Cummins by the numbers
Corporate responsibility
hours of paid employee time devoted annually  
to community projects as part of the Every  Employee Every Community program  
Community Involvement Teams at Cummins engaged in corporate responsibility activities
Corporate governance
80+    
Cummins locations that updated their  Business Continuity plans in 2009 for  emergencies such as natural disasters 
ethical principles that guide Cummins  on Governance and related initiativesEmployee safety 
0 fatalities at Cummins locations during 2009
drop in the Company’s Severity  Lost Work Day Rate representing  a reduction of more 2,400 lost  work days
 Employee diversity  
languages spoken by Cummins employees at locations around the world
Diversity Procurement goal for Cummins spending with minority-owned suppliers by 2012
 
Workforce 
36,000
Cummins employees across all Company locations 
percent of Cummins employees who live and work outside the United States70,000 +
150+
1040%
19
60$1 BILLION7 IntroductionEnvironment 
 
tons of CO2 emissions saved as a result of the 
Cummins Unplugged Challenge between 2008 and 2010
grants from the U.S. Department of Energy to Cummins to 
develop more efﬁcient trucks as part of the SuperTruck and light-duty diesel projects 
Financial 
total sales in 2009, down  24 percent from $14.3 billion  in 2008
 13%
average annual sales growth per year expected by Cummins from 2010-2014, about twice the annual growth rate over the last 30 years 
$774 MILLION
or 7.2 percent of sales in 2009 — Cummins fourth best Earnings Before Interest and Taxes as a percentage of sales in the last 25 years as Company employees became more efﬁcient in the midst of the global recession9,000  
$54  MILLION
$10.8
BILLION8 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Customers
Our goal is to care as much about our customers’ 
success as they do, especially during difﬁcult  times such as those we have endured during the recent global recession. Cummins works with key  customers during development and production to ensure our products are manufactured to meet their needs. The Company uses tools like Six Sigma  to help both Cummins customers and suppliers  improve quality, reduce costs and improve  proﬁtability for all involved.
Each business unit is responsible for developing 
projects to meet the needs of its customers and is expected to develop customer-focused Six Sigma  projects to tackle problems facing individual customers.Our Customer Support Excellence training includes a different approach to meeting customer needs by looking at a situation through the customer’s perspective. Cummins’ “Through the Lens of the Customer” training initiative has trained more than 25,000 employees.
Employees
Cummins has a long history of being an employer 
of choice, offering competitive salaries and beneﬁts, training and career development opportunities and  a positive work environment. Beneﬁts were made available to non-spousal domestic partners in 2000.
The Company places a premium on its workers  
treating one another with respect and dignity. Treatment of Others at Work is a key component  Cummins has recognized its commitment to a broad group of stakeholders for more than 35 years.  Longtime Chairman and CEO J. Irwin Miller laid out his philosophy in the 1972 Annual Report:
“ While some still argue that business has no social  
responsibility, we believe that our survival in the very  
long run is as dependent upon responsible citizenship  in our communities and in the society as it is on responsible technological, ﬁnancial and production performance.
Cummins strives to responsibly and effectively serve all stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders, 
business partners, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. The Company understands that its actions affect a broad range of constituents and works hard to engage them when making business decisions. 
Cummins is committed to ﬁnancial excellence, environmental stewardship, creating a great place to work,  
community engagement and fair competition.Our commitment9 Introductionof Cummins’ Code of Business Conduct and is  
the subject of mandatory training for all new hires. The policy applies to everyone who enters a Cummins facility with the goal of creating an atmosphere where everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
Cummins offers its employees opportunities for  
growth within the Company as their skills and  interests dictate. The Company has a history of “growing its own” leaders, and employees regularly move freely from one part of Cummins to another.
Business partners and suppliers
Cummins has been able to build strong bonds with  
its business partners whether the Company is acting as a supplier of components or working with one of  its 56 joint venture partnerships in 18 countries.
A key principle at the Company is to treat all preferred 
suppliers as business partners. Cummins regularly shares key practices such as Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing with those suppliers to help our  partners reduce costs and improve quality.Critical suppliers to Cummins must meet speciﬁc Six Sigma performance requirements because Cummins quality is heavily dependent on the quality of our suppliers’ products. If our suppliers and business partners succeed, Cummins will succeed and so will our customers.
Shareholders
Beyond returning value in terms of proﬁts, rising  
stock prices and dividends, Cummins believes it  owes investors transparency in ﬁnancial reporting. 
Top executives hold quarterly teleconferences  
with industry analysts to discuss ﬁnancial results. Company representatives also attend or host a number of investor events during the year.
To learn more about Cummins’ governance practices, 
please see the Governance and Risk Management section that starts on page 50.
The Cummins Operating System helps develop common practices and approaches to improve customer satisfaction and proﬁtability.  Here’s a quick look at the 10 practices:
1 Put the customer ﬁrst and provide real value
2 Synchronize ﬂows  
(material, physical and information)
3 Design quality in every step of the process
4 Involve people and promote team work5 Ensure equipment and tools are available  and capable
6 Create functional excellence
7 Establish the right environment
8 Treat preferred suppliers as partners
9 Follow common problem solving techniques
10 Use Six Sigma as the primary process  improvement methodThe Cummins Operating System10 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010History
Firmly rooted as 
we reach higher
Cummins’ pursuit of innovation and the Company’s 
commitment to both principled leadership and a long-term vision is rooted in the men who played a critical role in the company’s creation in 1919.
Clessie Cummins was a Columbus, Ind. man  
with a lifelong fascination for machines. W.G. Irwin,  whose family fortune backed the Company’s  launch 91 years ago, pursued proﬁts with a sense  of community mission and a desire to help  local entrepreneurs.
Cummins was Irwin’s driver and a mechanic who 
opened an auto repair shop in a vacant forge building with his boss’ blessing in 1913. The business evolved into a machine shop that performed a variety of Army and Navy ordnance jobs during World War I. 
Clessie Cummins was increasingly fascinated by  
diesel technology, which had been introduced in  the late 19th century in Europe but had not gained  widespread commercial success. Fourteen weeks after the end of the war, the Cummins Engine Company was born, backed by Irwin.Thanks in large part to the incredible patience of Irwin and his wife, who championed the business as a way to provide jobs to the young men of Columbus, Cummins survived a rocky start in which it didn’t turn a proﬁt until 19 years after the Company was founded.
A third pivotal ﬁgure in the Cummins history would 
enter the picture around that time. J. Irwin Miller was the grand-nephew of W.G. Irwin. Miller had been involved in Cummins’ operations for more than a decade before being elected president of the Company in 1947. He would play a key role at Cummins for the next three decades.
Educated at Yale and Oxford, Mr. Miller is largely  
responsible for Cummins taking on the qualities it  is so closely associated with today: environmental  consciousness, integrity, diversity, global involvement  and community service. It was under Miller’s leadership that Cummins ﬁrst became a global company,  entering India, China and other locations outside  the United States.
Today, Cummins is a global power leader –  
the world’s largest independent manufacturer  of diesel engines and related components. What  started as a business to manufacture diesel engines  for farm irrigation pumps is today a family of four  interrelated, yet diversiﬁed business segments.  Diesel engines provide about 49 percent of  our revenues; Power Generation, 19 percent;  Components, 18 percent and Distribution, 14 percent.
Clessie Cummins
Cummins corporate headquarters preserved part of the factory that 
was an early home for Clessie Cummins’ diesel engine company.
11 Introduction
The Company has 56 joint venture partnerships in  
18 countries with some of the largest companies  in our industry, including Komatsu in Japan, Scania in Sweden, Tata in India, Dong Feng and Foton in China and Brunswick-Mercury Marine in the United States. The Company has 87 manufacturing sites across the globe and 36,000 employees. 
Cummins products can today be found in nearly every 
type of vehicle, from the heavy-duty diesel powered trucks that travel the world’s highways, to tractors that till the soil, to large trucks that carry natural resources from mines and ships that travel the world’s waterways.
Cummins generators supply both prime and  
auxiliary power around the globe and our worldwide  distribution business of parts and service serves  customers in more than 190 countries. Clessie Cummins was known for 
his barnstorming to promote the 
diesel engine, demonstrating its 
beneﬁts by among other things 
ﬁelding a diesel-powered race 
car at the Indianapolis 500 and 
conducting coast-to-coast tours, 
for example with this diesel-
powered bus. He is shown (top 
right) with his two younger 
brothers later in his career. 12 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Here’s a look at some of the awards Cummins has 
won in the past year:
Environmental
Cummins’ facilities in the United Kingdom were awarded 
the Carbon Trust Standard in 2010, which recognizes companies with effective energy management systems and multi-year energy efﬁciency improvements. Receiving the standard is a signiﬁcant achievement, as fewer than 300 U.K. companies, with only a small percentage in the industrial sector, have met the criteria. 
Cummins continued to be a member of the FTSE4Good index series in 2010. The FTSE Group selects companies for the FTSE4Good index based on their environmental records, whether 
they develop positive relationships with their stakeholders and whether they support universal human rights. 
Cummins’ efforts to minimize its environmental  
footprint and reduce greenhouse gas emissions  helped the Company achieve a ranking in the top  20 percent of the 500 largest companies in United States in Newsweek’s inaugural “green” survey in  2009. Cummins placed seventh among 47 industrial goods companies. 
Cummins Generator Technologies India Limited  
received a Green Leader Award for 2009 from Frost  and Sullivan, the global research, analysis and growth  
consulting company. The business was honored for  its commitment to the environment including its  “green facility” at Ranjangaon that practices  lean manufacturing.Cummins became a charter member of the Save Energy Now LEADER program in 2009. The program is an ambitious national public- private initiative to drive signiﬁcant energy intensity  and carbon emission reductions across the U.S. industrial sector. Through partnerships with states, local entities, utilities, associations and end-users, industry can leverage resources to increase energy efﬁciency and save energy and money. 
Governance, ethics and sustainability
Cummins was named one of the “World’s Most  
Ethical Companies” in 2010 by the Ethisphere Institute. The institute recognizes commitment to ethical leadership, compliance practices and corporate social responsibility. This is the fourth straight year that the Ethisphere Institute has selected Cummins as one of the world’s most ethical companies. 
Cummins was named by Corporate Responsibility  magazine in 2010 as one  of the world’s 100 best  corporate citizens. It was the 
10th time in 11 years the Company has been named to the magazine’s “best corporate citizens” list. Overall, the Company ﬁnished No. 11 on the magazine’s list. 
Cummins was named to the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index for the ﬁfth consecutive year in 2009. The index represents the top  10 percent of the world’s largest companies rated by Dow Jones across a  range of economic, environmental and social  responsibility measures. 
Recognition
13 IntroductionSocial issues, diversity and people
Cummins in 2010 was named to 
DiversityInc’s List of the Top 50  Companies for Diversity for the fourth consecutive year. The Company ﬁnished 26th on the 2010 list compared to 42nd in 2009.
Cummins was named one of the top 50 companies  for Generation Y employees in 2010 by Brazen Careerist, which describes itself as the experts on what Generation Y wants from their workplace. Generation Y is often deﬁned as those born from the mid-to-late 1970s to  the early 2000s. 
Cummins received a perfect 
rating for a ﬁfth consecutive year from the largest U.S. advocacy group for gay, lesbian, bisexual and  transgender employees. The Human Rights Campaign rated 590 businesses as part of its 2010 Corporate Equality Index, reviewing companies on their LGBT  policies, practices and more.
Cummins was named as one of the top 25 companies 
for leaders in North America in 2009 by Fortune magazine. More than 500 companies of all sizes were considered for inclusion on the list ranking leadership development programs. 
Cummins China was selected as one of 11 ﬁnalists 
for the U.S. State Department’s Award for Corporate Excellence in 2009. The award recognizes U.S.  businesses for advancing good corporate citizenship, innovation, and democratic principles abroad. In the marketplace
The 2010 Dodge Ram Heavy Duty Truck featuring the 
Cummins 6.7 liter Turbo Diesel was selected Motor Trend magazine’s Truck of the Year. Motor Trend judges cited the engine’s design of a non-urea based system to meet 2010 emissions standards in a pickup truck, while also providing great performance and fuel efﬁciency.
Cummins ﬁnished 12th on Bloomberg BusinessWeek’s 
list of the top performing stocks over the past ﬁve years. BusinessWeek calculated the value of a $10,000 investment made in each company on  the S&P 500 in March 2005 compared to the  same date this March. Cummins stock appreciated  278 percent over the ﬁve years compared to an average of 10 percent over that time period. 
Cummins won the Modern Consumer Magazine 
award for Client Excellency in the auto parts category. The award is given out by Padrão Editorial and its partner GFK Indicator, a German company specializing in brand evaluation, one of the most renowned  companies in this sector.
Cummins B3.3 engine powered the Mecalac 12MTX 
Hybrid wheeled excavator to dual-award success  at the Intermat show in Paris in 2009, winning a  prestigious Gold Award for Innovation as well as a Special Environmental Award. The B3.3 engine drives an electrical generator and lithium-ion battery system to achieve 25 percent lower fuel consumption with reduced CO
2 emissions and quieter operation. 
14 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
Editor’s note: This year’s Sustainability Report 
is celebrating Cummins’ signiﬁcant partnerships in Corporate Responsibility. The Company’s Corporate Responsibility value calls for  Cummins to “serve and improve the  communities in which we live.” 
EARTH University professor Carlos Montoya walks 
down a neatly tended row of healthy lettuce, explaining how the vegetable typically doesn’t grow well in the hot, moist climate of Costa Rica’s humid tropics. And that’s the point of everything growing in the peri-urban garden tucked away in a corner  of EARTH’s bucolic campus in Guácimo, Limón. 
“We are trying to develop techniques to help people 
grow their own vegetables in small spaces and in places where they don’t naturally grow well,” said Montoya. He went on to add that as many people across Central America have moved from rural areas to cities and towns over the past few decades,  peri-urban gardening – the practice of growing  and distributing food in or near an urban area –  has become an increasingly important means of  providing food independence and ﬁnancial support.Behind the lettuce plot, plants take root in “soil” that consists largely of carbon, rice and coconut husks with pieces of aluminum cans buried in  to add volume while keeping the weight of the planting boxes as low as possible. Nearby,  vertical rows of vegetables grow in hanging plastic bags, demonstrating how to make the best use of limited growing space.
The concepts behind the peri-urban garden  
are repeated across EARTH’s 8,100-acre  campus where 400 students from two dozen countries learn sustainable, low-cost, low-impact agricultural techniques. At EARTH, little is wasted. 
Formed in 1986 with assistance from the  
Costa Rican government, the U.S. Agency  for International Development and the Kellogg Foundation, EARTH University was created in response to political and economic turmoil  in Central America that reached a crisis point in  the mid-1980s. As a result, dramatic social  inequities and a dangerous increase in  unsustainable agricultural practices posed a  signiﬁcant environmental and economic threat  to the entire region.
EARTH’s vision is to produce ethical agricultural 
entrepreneurs who are committed to promoting economic, social and environmental well-being in their home communities. So far, that vision has translated into a growing group of graduates who have started businesses and are creating jobs. Cover Story 
EARTH University’s  
mission rooted  in sustainability
Earth University
Guácimo, Limón
Costa Rica
EARTH’s vision is to produce ethical agricultural 
entrepreneurs who are committed to promoting economic, social and environmental well-being in their home communities.The university’s emphasis on education, the  
environment and social justice dovetails perfectly  with Cummins’ corporate responsibility focus areas –  education, the environment and social justice/ improving the human condition. That’s why EARTH became the Company’s ﬁrst “signature” corporate responsibility partnership in 2009.
“More so than any other effort in which we are 
involved, EARTH’s mission cuts across all our  corporate responsibility priorities at Cummins,” said Tracy Souza, Executive Director of Corporate Engagement at Cummins and Executive on Loan  to EARTH. “The work being done at EARTH has the potential to make profound positive environmental, social and economic changes and we are proud to partner with EARTH.”
Small classes, rigorous classwork
EARTH welcomes approximately 100 new students 
each year, following an intensive application process that includes personal interviews with as many as 800 applicants. Students are selected without regard for their ﬁnancial resources based on their potential, commitment to the concepts being taught at EARTH and with an eye toward developing a diverse student body that is likely to use what is learned to improve their home communities. Half of EARTH’s students are on full scholarship and no student pays more than half of the full cost of his or her education.
Once at EARTH, students engage in a rigorous  
year-round, four-year course of study that provides a mix of technical education, entrepreneurial experience, community involvement and hands-on agricultural and community oriented work. Classes routinely start at 6:30 a.m. and all students spend parts of two days each week working in the ﬁelds, local communities  or with livestock on campus.
Students are required work in teams to use loans  
from the university, which must be repaid with  interest, to develop and run a business. Students  also are required to spend several weeks assisting “a local farming family during their time at EARTH, which also allows the university to share its sustainable farming techniques more broadly. In addition, every student must secure an agriculture-related internship,  preferably in their home country.
EARTH University
Location: Costa Rica (main campus - 
Guácimo, Limón; satellite campus – La Flor).
Mission: Prepare leaders with ethical values to 
contribute to the sustainable development of the humid tropics and to construct a prosperous and  just society.
History: Founded in 1986 with the support of 
the Costa Rican government, the U.S. Agency for International Development and the Kellogg Foundation. 
Special features: All students must create and run 
a university-funded agriculture-related businessduring their ﬁrst year and spend one academic term as an intern during their third year.
Cummins involvement: Designated a “signature” 
Corporate Responsibility project in 2009; awarded $6 million challenge grant by Cummins Foundation; several senior leaders serve on EARTH boards or provide volunteer support to EARTH initiatives.Cummins’ commitment 
As part of the Company’s support for EARTH,  
The Cummins Foundation approved a $6 million  challenge grant in June 2009 to be awarded over  ﬁve years. The grant, is conditional on EARTH meeting established fund-raising goals and will be used to fund several endowed scholarships and an endowed professorship at the university.
Cummins’ support of EARTH goes well beyond the 
Foundation grant. Consistent with the Company’s philosophy of “unleashing the power” of its  employees, Cummins is providing EARTH with  signiﬁcant human capital.
A senior Cummins executive serves as a member  
of the EARTH University Board of Directors and the EARTH University Foundation Board of Trustees,  and the Company has established an executive  on loan to coordinate Cummins’ work with EARTH.  The Company’s government relations team in Washington, D.C., also is helping the university build relationships with government ofﬁcials from around  the world. In addition, a number of Cummins leaders are  assisting with projects designed to help EARTH create a long-term strategic ﬁnancial plan, to improve the operating efﬁciency of its business ventures and to better assess the impact its graduates are having on their communities. Other examples of Cummins’ commitment to EARTH include:
tCummins is helping EARTH build on its already 
successful efforts to create a sustainable model for growing bananas. In addition to being served in the university’s cafeteria every day, a portion of the banana harvest is sold to Whole Foods Market,  the U.S.-based natural supermarket chain. 
tCummins Master Black Belts from Mexico have trained EARTH employees in Six Sigma project methodology to drive improvement and efﬁciencies throughout the campus.
tCummins employees are working with EARTH to explore possible commercial markets for the “smart microbes” mixtures that are developed from recycled animal waste and which can be used to repel insects on livestock, ﬁght fungus on plants and even be converted into a cleaning solution  to reduce odor in livestock barns.
EARTH professor Carlos Montoya talks with staff member Junior Solano López about the lettuce being grown at the university.
Plants take root in “soil” that consists largely of carbon, rice and coconut husks with pieces of aluminum cans buried in to add volume. 
tCummins is a major participant in the  
university’s “EARTH Plants the Future” program  in 2010 by planting 100,000 trees – including 33,000 on EARTH’s main campus representing  the hours Cummins employees have devoted to  the Company’s Environmental Challenge program. 
 “EARTH has been fortunate to work with a lot of very good organizations, and Cummins is certainly one of the very best,” said EARTH University Provost Daniel Sherrard. “The support EARTH has received from Cummins is a real inspiration to all of us, and with no exceptions the people we have been fortunate to work with from the company have been wonderful collaborators.”
In a university known for its diversity –  the school’s 400 students come from 24 countries –  John Lomurut’s story still stands out.
One of four current students from Kenya attending 
EARTH University, John is the only one in his family of 12 children to attend college. He’s the only family member, parents and children, who can read and write. John was the lucky one: the only child from the family that his uncle could afford to take in and educate.
Today, John is on the verge of doing the unimaginable 
for most from his home village in Kenya: Graduate from college. A fourth-year student at EARTH, John  is symbolic of EARTH’s mission. He plans to return  to Kenya after graduation to spread the sustainable agricultural techniques he has learned in the humid tropics to his arid home region.
Soft-spoken, but poised and keenly intelligent with an 
easy smile, John also hopes to run for political ofﬁce in Kenya some day. It’s a far cry from the uncertain young man who arrived at EARTH four years ago never having been out of Kenya and without  knowing a single word of Spanish.
“The ﬁrst few months were very difﬁcult,” John  
admitted. “But it has deﬁnitely been worth it.”
John has been home only once since arriving at 
EARTH – to complete an internship with the African Wildlife Foundation and Starbucks. Using skills learned at EARTH, he worked with struggling local coffee  farmers to help them improve the yield of their  crops so that they wouldn’t need to poach animals  or engage in illegal logging from a nearby wildlife  reserve to support themselves.
Now, he looks forward to returning to Kenya to help his 
family and his country, and becoming among the latest group of graduates to carry on the EARTH mission.One student’s story
John Lomurut grew up in this village in Kenya.
18 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Raising the stakes on our 
environmental performance
Demanding that everything we do leads to a cleaner, 
healthier environment has been part of Cummins’ Mission Statement for many years. In practice, it means the Company is unwavering in our commitment to produce the cleanest products in the world and reduce the Company’s environmental footprint.
Cummins has raised the stakes on many  
environmental fronts in the past year. Because we have invested signiﬁcantly in new products and  technologies to further lower exhaust emissions from our products, the Company was able to successfully launch our 2010 diesel engines, meeting even more stringent U.S. Environmental Protection  Administration regulations.Other accomplishments include:
tGreenhouse gas reduction at Cummins’ facilities 
since 2005 has reached 167,000 tons, a reduction of 19 percent.
tProduct remanufacturing recycled more than  50 million pounds of material in the past year.  The energy savings from this reclamation is  equivalent to the consumption of about  10,000 homes in the United States.
tEight more sites were certiﬁed to Cummins Environmental Management System, which  drives regulatory compliance and ongoing  environmental improvement. 
Highlights
 Cummins successfully meets 2010 EPA 
emission regulations for on-highway diesel engines in the United States.
 Company sees producing cleaner, more  efﬁcient products as a strategic advantage.
 Cummins partners with employees  to address climate change, reduce  environmental footprint.
Dr. Steven Chu, U.S. Secretary of Energy,  
visits with John Wall, Cummins Chief Technical Ofﬁcer,  
at Cummins’ Columbus Technical Center earlier this year.
19 EnvironmentGoing forward, more of Cummins’ annual investment in 
research and development will be focused on improving the efﬁciency of our engines and reducing greenhouse gases (GHGs), speciﬁcally carbon dioxide (CO
2), to the 
mutual beneﬁt of our customers and the environment. We see our ability to produce cleaner, more fuel efﬁcient products as a key strategic advantage in the future.
Greater fuel economy,  
reduced product emissions 
In January 2010, U.S. Secretary of Energy Dr. Steven Chu 
chose Cummins’ Columbus, Ind. Technical Center as the setting to announce the awarding of $187 million to nine projects across the country dedicated to improving fuel efﬁciency, reducing waste energy, and cutting emissions. Cummins was awarded $54 million, by far the highest award, for two projects aimed at improving fuel efﬁciency in heavy-duty and light-duty vehicles. 
The Company’s 20-year partnership with the 
Department of Energy has helped Cummins  bring evolutionary and break-through clean diesel technology to the market faster and at a lower cost than we could have on our own.We are also partnering with the government  to establish the ﬁrst-ever standards governing greenhouse gas emissions and fuel efﬁciency for medium- and heavy-duty commercial vehicles. 
Cummins wrote a white paper at the request of the 
National Academy of Sciences (NAS) on the regulation of greenhouse gases in commercial vehicles following a site visit by academy leaders to Cummins in  May 2009. The paper details Cummins’ perspective on a regulatory framework that could also provide a useful structure for technology assessment, improved fuel efﬁciency and greenhouse gas reduction from medium- and heavy-duty commercial vehicles.
The regulatory framework has been part of the 
Company’s ongoing dialogue with regulators and lawmakers about the need for a consistent and responsible set of standards to address GHGs.
Cummins Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  
Tim Solso stood with U.S. President Barack Obama in May 2010 as the president signed an order at the White House for the development of these standards.
Chairman and CEO Tim Solso (fourth from right) stands behind President Barack Obama this spring as he signs an order  
to develop the ﬁrst-ever fuel efﬁciency standards for medium and heavy-duty commercial vehicles. 20 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Addressing climate change in our facilities
The Company’s efforts to address climate change  
continue to expand. We have reduced Cummins’  carbon footprint through initiatives like the Unplugged  Challenge, the Energy Champions program and the  Envolved employee engagement campaign (see story  on page 44). 
The Company’s Environmental Management System  
is making the Unplugged Challenge, an effort to reduce  power consumption at Cummins facilities during holiday  shutdowns, sustainable year round. Through training and  steps to control processes, the goal is to make reducing  electricity consumption part of our everyday lives.
Meanwhile, Cummins’ facilities in the United Kingdom  
have worked hard to comply with the Carbon  Reduction Commitment Energy Efﬁciency program,  legislation designed to reduce energy  use in businesses.  From wastewater reduction to waterless bathroom ﬁxtures, Cummins facilities met the challenge of water conservation over the past year. Annual water use reductions from speciﬁc water projects exceeded  47 million gallons – that’s the equivalent of a glass  of water for over 725 million people.
Better performance tools
A key part of Cummins’ environmental initiatives  
is improving the Company’s ability to measure  its performance at the facility level on  environmental issues.
In 2009, the Company implemented a new data  
collection/tracking system that made the gathering and public reporting of performance data for Cummins locations easier and more accurate. 
The system has better tools for data and trend analysis 
for all of the environmental data tracked so Cummins has an even better understanding of its environmental performance at all levels of the Company.
‘Print Smart’ reduces paper use 
Savings are up and the number of printed pages is down across Cummins thanks to a 2009 initiative the Company calls Print Smart.
The program, now in its second generation,  
globally refreshes the Company’s printing devices. Cummins is well on its way to printing 36 million fewer pages than last year – a projected annual savings of $2 million.
Under Print Smart II, employees have to conﬁrm 
their intent to print at the printer by entering a code. This step gives them one more chance to decide if they really need a printed copy.Since color copies cost three times as much as black and white, Cummins has also achieved signiﬁcant savings – an average of $1.5 million a year – by limiting both the number of color printers and which employees can print in color. Printing out a 30-page presentation that isn’t used doesn’t seem like a big deal until the cost  is multiplied by thousands of users.
By printing 36 million fewer pages annually, 
Cummins is predicting a greenhouse gas  avoidance of 605 metric tons, which could  generate an additional $7,400 in energy savings. With the completion of Print Smart ll, Cummins  is saving both money and close to 4,000 trees  per year.21 Environment
Challenges ahead: The environment
Regulations and global compliance: Cummins 
is planning for greenhouse gas regulation, both in its products and facilities. The Company has developed extensive technology road maps to meet various possible reduction deadlines for  its products. As nations address emissions and  regulate air pollutants, fuel efﬁciency and  greenhouse gas emissions from our products, we must understand and comply fully with these regulations. Our challenge is to improve our global emissions compliance processes – from the point when a regulation is considered to when we design and make a product and then the sales  and service of that product in the market.
Products and supply chain: The Company’s new 
products must be environmentally friendly. We are  constantly reviewing “green” product ideas that  take advantage of our technological leadership.  Cummins also plans to expand our efforts to do more low-carbon manufacturing, an area of currently untapped potential. We are also  stepping up our efforts to “green” our supply chain. One project under way in 2010 will  recommend a method and tools to evaluate the carbon footprint of Cummins extended supply chain, while another will recommend an overall strategy to reduce that footprint.
Energy: The good news is there are many 
efforts going on around the globe, but we could  do better at making sure they are leveraging, not duplicating, efforts and knowledge. An umbrella Six Sigma project will look at ways to coordinate global efforts in facilities, supply chain, products and processes. GHG reduction gets incrementally more difﬁcult after meeting initial targets.
The Company has embedded energy efﬁciency 
as a focus area within its global Environmental Management System to ensure that these efforts become sustainable parts of how we work every day.Inherent in our commitment to the environment is our commitment to continuous improvement.  Here are some of the key environmental challenges facing the Company: 
Cummins employee Mike Garrett looks for 
potential energy savings as part of the Company’s Energy Champions program. The low and no-cost improvements uncovered by Energy Champions  and Leaders are critical to energy efﬁciency  efforts going forward.22 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Products
Cummins’ leadership in combustion research, fuel 
systems, air-handling systems, electronics, ﬁltration and aftertreatment allows the Company to maximize customer value by providing the most appropriate emissions control for each market Cummins serves.
The Company’s diverse product portfolio meets 
or exceeds all emissions requirements, and at the same time delivers on our customers’ needs for fuel economy, performance, reliability and durability. 
Engines
Since the 1970s, Cummins on-highway engines have 
been regulated by the U.S. EPA and similar regulatory agencies around the world for combustion emissions, including Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Carbon Monoxide (CO), Hydrocarbons (HC) and Particulate Matter (PM), also known as soot.
When compared to emissions from unregulated engines 
in the early 1970s, today’s on-highway diesel engines emit 99 percent less PM and NOx.
Off-highway engines produced by Cummins are  
also subject to stringent emission standards.  The combustion process for off-highway engines is  fundamentally the same as for on-highway engines.
Between 1995 and 2006, off-highway engine  
emissions for NOx and PM have been reduced by  80 percent and 85 percent, respectively. And from  2011 to 2014, off-highway engines will be held to essentially the same level of emissions as their  on-highway engine counterparts. 2010 EPA emissions and fuel rules
In 2010, all heavy-duty diesel engines had to meet the 
NOx standard of 0.20 grams per brake-horsepower hour (g/bhp-hr) and the PM standard of 0.01g/bhp-hr. 
Both NOx and PM were reduced by 90 percent from 
2004 levels. The 2010 regulations required the phase-in of advanced on-board diagnostics with additional sensors to monitor the effectiveness of emission-control systems on the engine, which alert the driver if a failed emission-reduction device needs to be repaired.
In addition to the new exhaust emission standards,  
the EPA lowered the limit for diesel sulfur fuel from  500 parts per million (ppm) to 15 ppm. The new fuel standard began to be phased in October 2006 and will be completed by September 1, 2010. 
Cummins was among the ﬁrst companies to meet 
these standards. For 2010, the Company introduced the ISX15, providing ﬁve percent greater fuel economy, stronger performance, faster throttle r esponse and 
overall best-in-class drivability and reliability compared  to our previous industry leading ISX engine.
The ISX15 features the Cummins XPI fuel system, 
next generation cooled Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) system, an advanced turbocharger and a new Cummins Aftertreatment System that incorporates Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) catalyst technology.
Cummins also introduced the new ISX11.9 for  
commercial trucks, emergency vehicles and  motor coach applications. Environmental Stewardship
At Cummins, our Company models good environmental stewardship through our  
products, our practices and our partnerships. Here’s a summary of our activity in  all three areas. A more in-depth presentation is available at www.cummins.com.23 EnvironmentToday the ISX engine is the market leader in the 
North American heavy-duty on-highway truck market. Cummins’ market share of the heavy-duty on-highway business has grown from 27 percent in 2006 to more than 50 percent in 2009.
Cummins’ off-highway product range is ready to  
meet U.S. EPA Tier 4 Interim and EU Stage IIIB  emissions standards which take effect Jan. 1, 2011, for the 174 hp to 751 hp power category covering construction, agricultural and industrial equipment. 
Meeting the new regulations requires the use of 
advanced combustion and fuel injection systems, combined with exhaust aftertreatment to reduce PM emissions by over 90 percent compared to the current Tier 3 and Stage IIIA standards. 
While this technology is new to off-highway, it is  
not new to Cummins. We are able to leverage our proven on-highway technologies to provide our off-highway customers with fully integrated systems which go beyond meeting the low emissions standards to achieve up to ﬁve percent improved fuel efﬁciency. Alternative fuels
Cummins continues to support the development  
of engines capable of running on alternative fuels  that will give an option to our customers while  providing environmental beneﬁts. Biodiesel is a  clean-burning alternative fuel made from renewable resources including plant oils and animal fats.
In February 2009, Cummins announced that B20  
biodiesel fuel could be used in our high-horsepower engines and later in September announced B20  compatibility for EPA 2010, Euro 4 and Euro 5 engines. Most of Cummins engines are now approved to operate with B20 biodiesel blends, as will all future engines. 
Cummins also has a joint venture with Westport 
Innovations Inc. called Cummins Westport Inc. (CWI) that is headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia. CWI manufactures and sells the world’s widest range of low-emissions natural gas engines for commercial transportation applications such as trucks and buses, with more than 24,000 engines in service worldwide.0.01 US98 
0.0 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10 0.11 0.12 US04 
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 Global on-highway standards 
NOx – g/HP-hr 
Particulate – g/HP-hr EURO IV 
EURO V 
EURO VI US07 
US10 
This chart shows how countries’ standards have signiﬁcantly 
reduced the allowable amount of particulate and NOx emissions.24 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Cummins Westport natural gas engines, available  
as a factory option from over 50 truck and bus  manufacturers worldwide, can operate on  compressed (CNG) or liquid (LNG) natural gas  and on zero-carbon biomethane, a renewable fuel made from biogas or landﬁll gas.
Outside the United States 
Cummins meets or exceeds emission regulations 
in every country where it operates. In Taiwan, for example, emissions regulations require EPA 2004  or Euro IV standards, and Cummins sells both types of certiﬁed engines. In Mexico, emission regulations recently enacted require EPA 2004 certiﬁed engines. Cummins has been very active in the latest rulemaking and has been selling EPA 2004 certiﬁed engines years prior to the latest requirements. 
Cummins has worked closely with the Chinese  
government and Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) to introduce “green engines” to China. Cummins is committed to bringing in advanced,  low-emission, fuel efﬁcient and environmentally  friendly products to Chinese customers concurrently with international markets, including the United States and Europe. 
In late 2009, Cummins’ joint ventures in China – 
Dongfeng Cummins and Xi’an Cummins – introduced Euro IV diesel engines in advance of the Chinese  government’s requirements for production in 2011. Also in 2009, Cummins’ Wuhan Technical Center began projects with all of our joint ventures in China to develop clean diesel engines to meet the stringent Euro V emission standards worldwide in addition to local production of Euro IV engines. 
In 2010, Cummins’ latest joint venture with Beijing 
Foton began production of the all new ISF2.8 and ISF3.8 Euro IV engines in Beijing. Cummins is the ﬁrst foreign diesel maker to invest in the local manufacturing of key sub-systems, including turbochargers, ﬁltration products, fuel systems and after-treatment products. 
Technology for fuel efficiency
Technology innovations that deliver greater fuel economy for our customers also mean CO
2 
reduction. Cummins ﬁrst demonstrated a hybrid system in 1995 and continues to be the world’s number one supplier of diesel engines to the commercial diesel hybrid market. 
A hybrid vehicle, moved by two or more distinct 
power sources, uses less fuel than one with a  traditional powertrain and therefore emits less  CO
2. As commercial hybrids progress and 
advanced technologies from Cummins are introduced, the degree of system integration  will become more important. 
Further engine optimization for hybrid  
powertrains will result in new levels of fuel  efﬁciency driven by design considerations  and integrated engine features. Engine- optimized hybrid systems are estimated to  achieve a 40 to 50 percent fuel consumption  reduction over conventional powertrains. 
Meanwhile, the engine component of Cummins 
SuperTruck program, a program to improve fuel efﬁciency, reduce waste energy and cut emissions, uses waste heat recovery to get more mileage  out of the fuel. The concept is to direct waste  heat back to the engine via a small steam turbine, 1-1/2 inches in diameter.
This technology, funded in part by the Department 
of Energy, will help Cummins customers achieve greater fuel economy in light of rising fuel prices. 25 EnvironmentRemanufacturing Cummins products
Remanufacturing Cummins components  and engines 
provides our customers with high performing ReCon products at a value price. The business of providing  genuine, factory remanufactured products has long been a mainstay of Cummins sustainable operations.        
Remanufacturing provides beneﬁts for the environment 
by using about 85 percent less energy compared to the mining, reﬁning, melting and machining of new material. Cummins reuses or recycles more than 50 million pounds of material each year. The energy savings from this reclamation is equivalent to the  consumption of about 10,000 homes in the U.S.  Since most of that energy is fossil-fuel based, the savings also add up to greenhouse gas reductions  of about 200 million pounds.
ReCon Parts and Engines is a global initiative.  
Two India locations are now in operation producing  for the domestic market and export. Chinese  remanufacturing operations are expected to start  in July 2010, while fuel system remanufacturing  operations have now begun in a new facility in  Juarez, Mexico. 
Filtration
More than 50 years ago, Cummins developed its ﬁrst 
ﬁltration product. Since then, the business unit has developed thousands of innovative technologies and industry-leading manufacturing processes that support a cleaner, healthier and safer environment. 
For example, a current program underway at 
Cummins Filtration will reduce the amount of steel needed to make nut plate components used in liquid ﬁltration by 11 percent. By reducing the amount of steel used to make ﬁlters, while still meeting or exceeding performance expectations, less material  will be needed from steel service centers and mills. This design change equates to a reduction in steel purchased by Cummins Filtration of 1 million pounds or 454 metric tons. From a transportation standpoint, the reduction means 25 fewer truckloads of steel transported for Cummins Filtration per year, though the same volume and quantity of ﬁlters are still  produced. Studies suggest that for every ton of  steel produced by a mill, approximately 1.8 tons  of CO
2 are emitted into the atmosphere.
The business unit designs high performance  products that remove contamination from engine systems, reduce engine emissions and minimize  disposal issues. As the only ﬁlter manufacturer that is part of a company that produces engines, Cummins Filtration has developed new technologies in concert with 2010 engine platforms to reduce environmental impact, as in the following examples:
tCrankcase Ventilation systems that ﬁlter up  
to 99 percent of oil drip, up to 95 percent of  aerosol vapors and 100 percent of engine  compartment fumes. 
tDirect Flow™ Air Filtration design utilizes a straight air ﬂow path allowing ﬁlter media to be packaged in a smaller proﬁle for longer service intervals, easier service and environmentally-friendly disposal with no metal components.
tFilter-in-Filter combines two ﬁlters in a single reusable cartridge that reduces the amount of waste material during regular fuel system maintenance.
From the state-of-the-art Media Center, Cummins Filtration engineers design advanced ﬁlter media to meet the goal of reducing our carbon footprint, such as the award-winning, multi-layered StrataPore™  synthetic media with superior sludge removal  capability and StrataPore Coalescing media  speciﬁcally tailored for optimal oil droplet removal  from blow-by gases in Crankcase Ventilation systems.26 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009Nitrogen Oxides 
NOxHydrocarbons HCCarbon Monoxide COParticulate Matter PM
010020030040050022003300
. . . . . .
. . .
. . . . . 
. . . . . .
EPA Allowed
Cummins Produced
About our charts 
The charts on this page and the next illustrate 
Cummins’ commitment to the environment  by often exceeding U.S. emissions standards.
The on-road charts for North America compare  
the estimated maximum allowable emissions by  U.S. EPA standards compared to Cummins’  estimate of its engines’ actual emissions for  the past three years. 
Estimates are based on the number of engines, 
both heavy-duty and midrange, manufactured in the United States for on-highway use per year.
Cummins engines have released far less 
Hydrocarbon and Carbon Monoxide into the environment than the maximum allowed by the EPA. And even by the tough Nitrogen Oxide and Particulate Matter measures, Cummins has been under the standards.
The ﬁgures in the non-road charts are based  
on the number of midrange, heavy-duty and  high-horsepower engines produced to EPA  standards. As with Cummins’ on-road engines, these non-road engines release far less HC and CO into the environment than the maximum allowed by regulatory agencies. Likewise, NOx  and PM actual emission levels are under the  applicable standards.
Automotive useful life emissions total in thousands of tons27 Environment 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009Carbon Monoxide 
CONitrogen Oxides 
+ Hydrocarbons 
NOx + HCParticulate Matter PM
0100200300400500600
EPA Allowed
Cummins Produced
050100150200250
 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009
High Horsepower (19-78 liters)    2 2 1
Heavy Duty (10-15 liters) 39 60 68 9 9 4
MidRange (3-9 liters) 175 108 100 42 44 24Non-road On-highway
272
 EnvEnviroironmenmentnt
Cummins MerCruiser  
Diesel uses solar power 
A new concept vessel is combining diesel-electric 
hybrid technology with renewable solar energy and a high-capacity battery, resulting in a clean, quiet, safe and more enjoyable boating experience.
The boat is a project of Mercury Marine, Cummins’ 
joint venture partner for marine propulsion using Cummins diesel engines 15 liters and smaller. 
The boat reduces energy consumption by  
using solar power to recharge the lithium  ion batteries and advanced automatic  control strategies for optimal efﬁciency.  The environmental beneﬁts include cleaner air and water and greenhouse gas reduction through better fuel efﬁciency and the use of renewable energy.
The hybrid propulsion combines reliable diesel 
engines and electrical systems so they can operate together or independently, providing built-in backups. Solar power is independent of shore power and provides electrical backup to bilge pumps, starting batteries and other critical components.
This new technology was shown at the Miami 
International Boat Show earlier this year to positive reviews. 
Non-road useful life emissions total 
in thousands of tons
Diesel engine volumes 
in thousands28 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Pradeep Bhargava says development doesn’t have  
to come at the expense of the environment.
“We need doable, replicable and simple tasks by 
which each one of us can contribute towards a harmony between development and environment without compromising either,” says the Managing Director of Cummins Generator Technologies India.
Under Bhargava’s leadership, CGT India built the ﬁrst 
truly “green” manufacturing plant at Cummins in 2007. The facility in Ranjangaon, India, is energy efﬁcient, expected to save over 14 million kilowatt hours of electricity over the ﬁrst 10 years of operation. 
The facility has been widely recognized for its green 
design and earlier this year Bhargava was honored by Cummins Health, Safety and Environmental Council for his leadership on environmental issues.“Our lean and green factory at Ranjangaon is testimony to our commitment towards our Mission Statement demanding that everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier and safer environment,” Bhargava said.  “The facility also demonstrates the possibility of  achieving a viable balance between commercial  proﬁtability of the business and the interests of the environment.”
The plant at Ranjangaon uses high efﬁciency glass for 
windows and skylights, ﬂy ash in the building’s bricks and landscaping on the roof to name just a few of the plant’s environmentally friendly features
While Bhargava has become something of a green 
ambassador in the business world, he doesn’t  consider himself a “shaker” – someone warning humanity about impending environmental disaster.  He said there are already enough “shakers.” 
“I put two simple guidelines for my colleagues and I  
to follow,” he says when asked about the development of the plant in Ranjangaon. “One, don’t abuse nature. Two, use nature.”India’s green ambassador
The Cummins Generator Technologies plant at Ranjangaon.Environment
Cummins New and ReCon Parts business,  
which re-manufactures components and engines, began operations at its new facility near Pune in September 2009.The ReCon plant, which shares a location with Cummins Generator Technologies in Ranjangaon, is one of three divisions of Cummins Technologies India Limited (CTIL). CTIL is a 100 percent Cummins owned legal entity in India.  
Remanufacturing operations will introduce low  
cost, high quality ReCon parts and engines to domestic Indian markets. The remanufacturing process gives new life to parts that  might  otherwise be thrown away.   
The plant “uses” nature in several ways. For example, the facility features a wind tower to provide natural ventilation, reducing both temperatures in the shop and the heat load for the ofﬁce air conditioning. Treated “gray water” from the plant canteen and sinks is used for landscape irrigation. And an aggressive tree planting program with the goal of planting 3,000 trees will help offset the facility’s carbon emissions.
After stints in both government and private industry  
in India, Bhargava joined Cummins Power Generation business in India in 2000. He became the leader of Cummins Generator Technologies in 2003, where he was asked to oversee the development of the new factory in Ranjangaon.
Initially, the goal was establishing a world-class 
factory using lean manufacturing concepts focused on the needs of the customer and eliminating waste. Bhargava and his colleagues decided to make it “lean and green – something that seemed wholesome and in line with Cummins stated values,” he said.Now, Bhargava is quoted frequently on balancing the needs of the environment with the needs of business. He leads a national task force on establishing codes for green factories in India.
“For us in corporate life, ‘lean’ is a business  
compulsion, but ‘green’ is societal obligation,” Bhargava says. “If long-term sustainability is a question mark in the context of climate and environment changes, it has to be addressed wholeheartedly by industry as a key member of civic society. Hence we took this as part of our social responsibility – one of the key values of our organization.”ReCon plant opens in India 
Environmentt
Further reducing our footprint
A second green factory in India was opened in Pithampur in late 2008. This Turbo Technologies  plant incorporates many environmentally friendly  features in both its ofﬁce environment (energy  efﬁcient lighting, occupancy sensors) and the  shop ﬂoor (skylights, efﬁcient air conditioning).  The building was designed to the land contour  of the site to minimize excavation, and materials that were excavated were used in the construction.Tim Solso cuts the ribbon on the new plant near Pune.30 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Climate change
Early in 2007, Cummins formed a climate change 
team to take both a strategic and tactical view of climate change and sustainability at Cummins.  The team’s members, from across business units  and functions, represent facilities, product planning, corporate strategy, environmental policy, supply chain and government relations, among others. 
The team has evolved into an active working group 
that takes a very structured and results-oriented approach to our 10 climate change principles developed to meet the challenges of climate change going forward. 
Six of these principles direct company actions for our 
products, businesses, employees and communities, while four of them shape our partnerships with  legislative and regulatory entities to develop sound public policy. The outreach of the corporate group is expanding to include forming business-speciﬁc and regional working groups to address climate change. 
Many examples of the working group’s efforts are 
included elsewhere in this report:
tThe support of greenhouse gas regulation (GHG)  
in commercial vehicles and collaborative work with the EPA in developing future GHG regulation; 
tEngaging employees to reduce their carbon  footprints both at work and at home; 
tClosing in on our 25 percent facility GHG reduction goal; and 
tPursuing new business opportunities like hybrids and combined heat and power systems.  Energy efﬁciency
The EPA’s Climate Leaders program offers a  
rigorous approach to greenhouse gas reduction  that yields credible and consistently measurable results. When Cummins committed to a 25 percent GHG intensity reduction goal by 2010 from a 2005 baseline, we took the most comprehensive stance possible, choosing to include in our baseline audit  all management-controlled entities worldwide.
A corporate Energy Efﬁciency Team with leaders  
from each business unit and related environmental  functions drives the Company’s efforts to meet its Climate Leaders goal.
The team manages the capital fund allocated  
speciﬁcally for energy efﬁciency, analyzes proposed capital projects for energy efﬁciency and greenhouse gas reduction and tracks our progress toward our Climate Leaders goals. Capital projects in our seven identiﬁed energy efﬁciency themes have resulted in annual energy savings of $11 million. 
The team was also important in developing the 
Company’s Energy Champions program and training materials. Energy Champions and Energy Leaders are energy experts at their sites and seek and carry out low or no cost energy improvements. It is estimated those improvements could save Cummins $10 million to $15 million per year. Practices
Cummins doesn’t just talk about environmental stewardship. The Company 
puts its words into action. Here’s a look at some of the ways we ensure that “everything we do leads to a cleaner, healthier and safer environment.”31 EnvironmentOur own products and processes               Partnering with others                                                                                     Public policy efforts
Four principles shape 
our efforts toward sound 
public policy.Six principles direct our 
company actions for products, businesses, employees and communities.
Business Unit Working Groups
focus on business-speciﬁc climate change initiatives.
Regional Working Groups
 will tailor climate change strategies to their regions.Policy advocacy in U.S. and globally to develop 
sound public policy to address climate change. Climate
ChangePrinciplesSupport
communityefforts
Grow and developnew businesses
Improveproductefﬁciency
Harness theenergy of employees
Make work spacesgreen spacesAccelerate progressthrough incentivesCreate a balancedglobal approachPromotetechnologydevelopmentDevelopresponsibleregulationsCollaborate withsuppliers andcustomers
In 2007, Cummins 
formed a Climate Change 
Working Group to take 
both a strategic and tactical 
view of climate change 
and sustainability.32 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
Cummins Environmental Management System
Cummins Environmental Management System (EMS) 
ensures a common approach to implementing Cummins’ environmental standards at its sites worldwide. 
The EMS drives regulatory compliance and ongoing 
environmental improvement projects reﬂecting site, business unit and corporate priorities. Cummins  has incorporated the elements of the international industry environmental standard ISO 14001 into its EMS and submits the EMS registration to independent third party auditing and veriﬁcation with our global  registrar, Bureau Veritas Certiﬁcation. 
By the end of 2009, Cummins had 55 sites and the 
corporate entity registered to the ISO 14001 standard and expects to have the remainder of in-scope sites registered by the end of 2011.
Lighting 
More efﬁcient lighting  
reduces operating costs
Power Management 
Powering down equipment for energy savings
Energy Recovery 
Waste heat captured from 
welding can be used elsewhere
Machinery & Equipment 
Reducing compressed  
air use when possible
2004200520062007200820092010 – 2011
13 certiﬁed facilities2025384755all 71 facilities in scope
Heating & Cooling 
Recirculating fan projects
Building Envelope 
Insulation keeps heat 
from escaping
Fuel Usage 
Using less fuel in test cells 
adds to GHG reductionSeven ways our sites save energy
These themes provide structure for our energy reduction efforts.
Certiﬁed EMS enterprise sites
EnvironmentEnvironmental objectives and targets
Each year, the Health, Safety and Environmental 
Council agrees on objectives and targets for the organization to ensure the improvement of Cummins’ environmental performance. 
These corporate objectives are in addition to business 
unit initiatives that are of special importance and address a unique risk exposure or opportunity for that group. In 2009, each business was asked to use Six Sigma tools on a reduction project of their choice and to begin to develop a water balance by identifying key uses of water onsite.
The water balance analysis will help identify reduction 
opportunities that support Cummins’ continuing focus on water conservation. In addition, objectives and 
targets have been set to generate organizational and 
other support for GHG reduction and energy efﬁciency initiatives across the organization.
At the end of 2009, the EMS was able to quantify 
$2 million in savings and the following environmental improvements as a result of the objectives and  targets completed:
t8 metric tons of waste reduced
t47 million gallons of water conserved
t1,000,000 BTUs (British Thermal Unit)  
of natural gas reduced
t2.5 megawatts of electricity reduced
t4,000 pounds of solvent usage reduced
Environmentt
Cummins Southern Plains implements  
integrated Environment Safety System
Many sites at Cummins are developing integrated 
health, safety and environmental systems to meet both environmental and safety standards.
Cummins has developed a number of tools to support 
these activities including integrated Corporate Health, Safety and Environmental procedures.
Cummins Southern Plains, headquartered in Texas 
with 10 branch locations, is our ﬁrst distributor in the corporate enterprise to implement such an integrated system. 
Having multiple locations across two states 
required good communications and common systems to achieve consistency and excel-lence for health, safety and the environment. Implementation teams set up at all branch  locations helped make the process smoother. “Since all of our branches perform the same basic functions, deploying the HSEMS (Health, Safety and Environmental System) to all branches added a lot of value for little additional effort at Southern Plains,” said Charles Glynn – Southern Plains Health, Safety and Environmental Leader. “Implementing a formal HSEMS has allowed us to identify gaps in our approach and signiﬁcantly improved our safety and environmental performance.” 
“The environmental and safety management 
system provides standardized processes to drive continual improvement, while retaining site level ﬂexibility that is critical to address the diverse challenges in the Distribution Business Unit,” said Adam Tucker, Cummins Distribution Business Unit HSE leader. “The achievement of Southern Plains is signiﬁcant as more distributors will move to these systems.”34 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  201002004006008001000
 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 
Electricity 444,905 450,784 451,597 433,211 388,415 
Stationary combustion 169,264 177,671 177,961 190,938 171,412 
Fugitive SF6, CO2 120,506 130,786 165,417 170,140 6,316
Mobile sources, other 29,199 30,460 30,494 31,772 30,880Total GHG emissions
in thousands of metric tons CO2eGreenhouse gas emissions
Cummins has achieved dramatic reductions in  
greenhouse gas emissions due in large part to a  structured approach to energy efﬁciency. From  the end of 2005 to the end of 2009, Cummins  has decreased its actual greenhouse gas emissions  by 167,000 tons. 
Our reduction goal, however, is an intensity goal, 
which expresses GHG reduction per unit of sales. Meeting an intensity reduction goal is typically harder during a period of declining sales, which occurred during the economic downturn starting at the end  of 2008, as plants were not running at full capacity.  Still, Cummins has achieved a 19.4 percent GHG reduction since base year 2005, and is on track to meeting its 25 percent goal.
In addition to energy reduction, site speciﬁc  
reduction initiatives through the Environmental Management System have yielded performance improvements relative to non-GHG emissions, as  well as in wastes generated and resources used. These metrics have generally held steady in spite of substantial increases in production and sales from 2006 through 2008 coupled with an increasing number of reporting sites each year. 
The year 2009 saw sharply declining sales from the 
prior year. Although 2009 sales totals were similar to sales in 2006, total water use and waste placed in landﬁlls were substantially lower in 2009 — evidence that the Company improvement efforts are paying dividends beyond any reductions associated with decreases in production. 
Water use in particular has been cut in half over  
the reporting time-frame. Although recycled materials  are difﬁcult to trend for improvements due to the various inﬂuences on materials used in product and packaging, Cummins has well-developed recycling programs in all 55 Environmental Management System (EMS) sites and most other non-manufacturing sites.
Efforts at better management of packaging are being 
implemented within Cummins’ supply chain, which will contribute to efforts to minimize wastes generated associated with company operations.35 EnvironmentPercent change in revenue
Actual GHG emissions
Normalized GHG emissions25%
0%
-25%ON TRACK
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010GHG 
reduction
GOAL
.6(3
 
Since 2005, Cummins has  
implemented 202 capital projects,  reducing annual GHG emissions  by 219,812 tons of CO
2e, for an 
annual savings of $11 million.
GHG emissions by country
United States  70%United Kingdom  9%India  6%Mexico  3%
China  4%Europe  2%
Other  6%Emission Solutions  2%
Corporate  3% 
Turbo Technologies  4% 
Distribution  6% 
Fuel Systems  7% 
Power Generation  10% 
Filtration 11% 
Engine  56% GHG emissions by business unit36 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  201010
020
 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
 Total 13,432 16,010 16,645 18,588 15,0125152535
 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
 Plastic 296 399 752 930 796
 Wood 11,157 16,478 21,966 17,874 13,471
 Paper 287 359 452 435 508
 Cardboard 7,513 8,444 9,777 10,992 10,704
20
0406080100120
 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Copper and brass 331 552 1,394 674 582
Aluminum 1,015 877 665 1,127 748
Iron 112,344 115,293 113,045 104,974 78,839
.5
011.522.5
 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Total water use  1,247,727,052 2,072,377,694 1,317,534,849 1,365,684,528 1,095,309,981
Signiﬁcant discharges 1,013,908,131 1,806,549,812 1,059,347,098 1,193,712,064 749,978,113Recycled metals 
in thousands of metric tonsOther recycled materials in thousands of metric tons
Landﬁll waste 
in thousands of metric tons
Total water use in billions of gallonsLower sales in 2009 affected the volume of material recycled at Cummins locations.37 Environment
Here are excerpts from a conversation on 
Cummins and climate change with President  and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Tom Linebarger:
Q. Why does Cummins care about  
climate change?
A: Climate change is an important issue to 
Cummins for several reasons. First, our mission statement says that everything we do needs to lead to a cleaner, healthier and safer environment. And we’re concerned that climate change is a serious threat to the environment.
Second, we can make a difference. The great  
thing is our products can have a positive impact on the environment, as can lowering the impact  of our facilities. 
And third, our customers care about climate 
change. They may not even know it yet, but  fuel economy is directly impacted by carbon  emissions. And fuel economy is a major cost  driver for most of our customers. They care  about how much fuel they use.
Q. What else can Cummins do?A: There are 10 climate change principles which 
really deﬁne how we want to address this issue. And six of those 10 are things that the Company can do to be more energy efﬁcient on its own.  We can also do things related to how we involve our employees, getting them involved in doing energy savings everywhere including their own homes. They feel good about it and so do we. But also government can play a role, and Cummins can help on that part.  Q. How can government play a role?
A: Four of our 10 climate change principles relate 
to how we can help government think through how to make responsible regulations in this area.
Responsible regulations help companies focus 
on what we need to do and how to have an even playing ﬁeld and make sure we’re all competing  on the same basis. And we know a lot about that.
And by government ensuring that companies can 
continue to trade internationally by promoting technology at home and allowing companies  the opportunity to make sure that we can sell  those technologies abroad, we can also promote U.S. industry.
We’ve seen that in environmental regulations for 
air we have today. So Cummins has developed leading technologies to meet air emissions. And that’s allowed us to sell those technologies not only in the U.S. but abroad and build jobs and create positive economic activity in the U.S.
The same opportunity exists on climate change.  
If we can be developing those technologies, we have the opportunity to sell those technologies and trade with other countries around the world using those technologies to drive American industry.
Cummins and climate change38 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Cummins’ Darlington Engine Plant has been honored 
by a prominent business group in North East England for its environmental work in the region.
The 2009 Tees Valley One North East Business 
Awards speciﬁcally recognized the plant’s community work through its Environmental Management System, the Unplugged Challenge and the 90th Anniversary Environmental Challenge.
The Unplugged Challenge urged employees to  
save energy during holiday shutdowns while  the Environmental Challenge encouraged  employees to work on community efforts to  improve local environments.
Children at Firthmoor Primary School (10-11 year 
olds) learned about electricity reduction from a Six Sigma project run by the Cummins Darlington staff. The theme of the project: “Life without Electricity.” Participants used “kill-a-watt” meters to measure  the amount of electricity used by various pieces of equipment and then encouraged staff and pupils  to turn equipment off when not in use. 
Darlington plant, environmental engineer recognized
British TV naturalist Professor David Bellamy helps the Darlington Engine Plant celebrate Cummins’ 90th Anniversary by visiting local 
schools, colleges and charitable organizations to plant trees and participate in other environmental activities. 
Cummins employees seek to engage students in energy 
conservation in the Darlington area through programs like  the Cummins Energy Leaders of the Future initiative at  Firthmoor Primary School.39 Environment
Cummins accepted into U.K. Carbon Trust
Energy efficiency efforts recognized
On April 1, 2010, the Carbon Reduction 
Commitment (CRC) Energy Efﬁciency program  was enacted in the U.K., requiring approximately 5,000 companies to reduce their energy use and receive a reward, or do nothing and pay a penalty.
For the ﬁrst year, the CRC will reward those  
companies that have been awarded the Carbon Trust Standard (CTS). The CTS certiﬁcate  recognizes companies that can demonstrate an effective energy management system, show improving energy efﬁciency over the last several years and pass site audits that focus on evidence of energy management policies and programs.Cummins’ award of the Carbon Trust certiﬁcate  will ensure the Company’s position on the upper half of the CRC performance list and a monetary reward in the ﬁrst couple of years of the program. Fewer than 300 U.K. organizations have achieved the Carbon Trust standard.
When the program is fully operational, a carbon 
emissions trading market in the U.K. will be  established. In the ﬁrst few years the price is  ﬁxed at £12 a metric ton of CO
2, which means 
about £600,000 for Cummins in the U.K., to be deposited and returned six months later with  a monetary reward or penalty. The reward or  penalty increases over time and is based on  the company’s position on the performance  list reﬂecting their efforts in energy efﬁciency. 
The Tees Valley awards panel also noted the number of Every Employee Every Community projects the engine plant had completed, including support for campaigns to encourage bicycle use, garden  maintenance initiatives and a tree planting project.
The plant was also congratulated on its commitment 
to reduce greenhouse gases. Darlington has seen  a 48 percent reduction in Carbon Dioxide (CO
2) 
through activities such as the Unplugged Challenge (47 percent reduction in weekend consumption), saving the facility £98k ($141,000) per year. 
In a related award, Environmental Engineer Paul Hayes 
was honored individually for his work both inside and outside the plant by Cummins Health Safety and Environmental Council. 
Hayes shared the award with Pradeep Bhargava, 
Managing Director of Cummins Generator Technologies India. 
 Sadiq Khan (left), Minister of State for Transport for the United 
Kingdom, meets with Paul Hayes (right), Environmental Engineer, during Khan’s 2009 visit to learn more about the use of Cummins diesel engines in public transportation and a campaign at the facility to encourage bicycling as an alternative to driving. 40 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Science and Technology Advisory Council
In developing products to meet various standards, as well as 
the demands of our customers, Cummins seeks advice and counsel from its Science and Technology Advisory Council.
The Council, formed in 1993, has given the Company 
access to some of the country’s leading scientiﬁc thinkers and policymakers from the worlds of academia, industry and government. The Council was restructured in 2010 to facilitate access to a broader group of international specialists and align their expertise with the speciﬁc topics being addressed by the Council at a particular time. 
Permanent members are Chairman Dr. Gerald Wilson, 
former Dean of Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Dr. Harold Brown, former U.S. Secretary of Defense and former President of  the California Institute of Technology. Other senior international scientists and engineers are invited to participate as advisors depending on the topic. 
The Safety, Environment and Technology Committee of 
the Cummins Board of Directors advises senior leaders and the technical leadership of Cummins regarding:
tEnvironmental and technological strategies,  
compliance programs and major projects as  they relate to the Company and its products.
tPublic policy developments, strategies and  positions taken by the Company with respect to safety, environmental and technological matters that signiﬁcantly impact the Company or its products.
tProgress of strategic environmental programs  and policies. American Energy Innovation Council 
Cummins Chairman and CEO Tim Solso has joined key 
U.S. business leaders, including General Electric Co. CEO Jeff Immelt and Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates to create the American Energy Innovation Council,  a group advocating for development of clean energy to boost the nation’s economic competitiveness.
The Council has called for more research into nuclear, 
solar and wind power, fossil fuels and other energy  technologies. The council has also asked Congress to create an energy strategy board charged with developing and monitoring a national energy plan as well as over-seeing what the executives call a new “Energy Challenge Program” for large-scale demonstration projects.
The U.S. Department of Energy
In January 2010, Cummins received $54 million for 
two projects aimed at improving fuel efﬁciency in heavy-duty and light-duty vehicles. This award is the latest chapter in the Company’s 20-year collaborative partnership with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). 
Previous Cummins programs funded by the DOE have 
created both evolutionary and breakthrough technolo-gies and analytical approaches, speeding up time for commercialization of vehicles powered by advanced combustion engines. 
In 2007, Cummins introduced its 6.7 liter Turbo Diesel, 
which met 2010 emissions standards three years early. The 6.7 liter Turbo Diesel uses a Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Adsorber Catalyst, which was ﬁrst developed and demonstrated in collaboration with the DOE. Partnerships
Cummins has long believed in the power of partnerships and that has helped 
us meet our product and emissions goals and become more energy efﬁcient. Here’s a look at some of those partnerships.41 EnvironmentIn December 2009, Cummins became a charter 
member of the DOE’s Save Energy Now LEADERS program. Cummins pledges to improve energy  efﬁciency at least 25 percent by 2015.
U.S. EPA
The EPA is charged with developing and enforcing 
environmental regulations. By working with a trusted business resource such as Cummins, the agency can better match its technology mandates with realistic timelines to meet those regulations. 
Cummins has shared its perspective on a regulatory 
framework that could also provide a useful structure for technology assessment, improved fuel efﬁciency and greenhouse gas reduction from medium and heavy-duty commercial vehicles.
Duke Energy 
Cummins has partnered with Duke Energy to ﬁnd 
energy efﬁciencies at Company facilities, receiving the U.S. power company’s “2009 Power Partner” Award. 
Duke provides power to several Cummins facilities  
in the United States and also has a deregulated  energy services group that has partnered with the Company on energy efﬁciency assessments, technical standards, educational materials and dozens of major capital projects. 
Duke lauded Cummins for launching a corporate- 
wide energy efﬁciency campaign. Duke conducted detailed energy efﬁciency assessments at Cummins’ largest U.S. sites and helped identify nearly 1,000  potential capital projects.Duke also helped Cummins develop new efﬁciency standards for production equipment and facility design, along with developing an Energy Champions training program to improve energy use.
Sustainability reporting For the past ﬁve years, Cummins has participated in 
the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an institutional investor consortium that seeks to encourage greater environmental reporting among companies. CDP asks companies to provide details on their carbon emissions, their positioning in response to the impact of climate change on their markets and regulatory environment, their use of energy and planning for the future.
In addition, Cummins is a member of the Business 
Roundtable Climate RESOLVE (Responsible Environmental Steps, Opportunities to Lead by Voluntary Efforts), whose members have voluntarily committed to reduce or offset greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
Cummins also is a member of the Business 
Environmental Leadership Council of the Pew Center on Climate Change and sits on the President’s Council of Resources for the Future. 
Jim Stanley, President of Duke Indiana (left), presents the  
Power Partner Award to Ignacio Garcia, Chief Manufacturing  and Procurement Ofﬁcer at Cummins.42 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
Collaborating with customers for better performance
PowerSpec
This tool helps customers specify 
the correct vehicle and electronic parameters using inputs such as gross vehicle weight, terrain, and engine type to determine proper  axle and transmission conﬁguration.
Fleet management
In addition to “active” features,  
Cummins engines also have a number of “information features” where “trip” or “duty cycle” information is stored. Fleet managers can analyze data for variations between drivers or trucks, look for trends and use the data for driver coaching.Greater fuel economy:  
driver assist
Reduced vehicle speed saves 
fuel. Road Speed and Cruise Control Governors limit the maximum vehicle speed while Smart Torque allows high  torque in the top two gears, minimizing the number of  down shifts required to  maintain speed.
Fuel economy reference library
Customers have access to  
information resources describing the best fuel economy conﬁguration for electronic parameters, transmission, tires, axle ratio and other settings.
Greater fuel economy: 
engine ﬁne-tuning
Customers achieve greater 
fuel economy through  optimization of duty cycles, calibration and hardware as well as Cummins’ help with transmission integration, accessory management  and down speeding.Since 2004, Cummins has collaborated with its end user truck ﬂeet customers  
on 57 customer-focused Six Sigma projects, which saved 49 million gallons of fuel  and avoided 495,000 tons of CO
2 emissions. That’s equivalent to taking 95,000 cars 
off the road.43 EnvironmentCustomers and cogeneration
Another way Cummins partners with its customers  
is on cogeneration.
Also known as Combined Heat and Power (CHP), 
cogeneration is the production of two kinds of energy — usually electricity and heat — from a single source of fuel. Cogeneration can replace the traditional method of supplying energy from multiple sources – for example, purchasing electricity from the power grid and burning natural gas or oil separately in a furnace to produce heat or steam. 
These methods can waste up to two-thirds of the 
energy in the original fuel. With cogeneration, 70 to  90 percent of the energy in the original fuel is put  to productive use, and total energy savings can be  30 percent or more.A cogeneration system normally consists of some kind of machine turning an alternator to produce electricity and a waste heat recovery system to capture the heat from the exhaust and cooling water jacket. 
Cummins Power Generation designs and builds  
cogeneration systems used around the globe in various applications. CHP applications include hospitals, schools, sports complexes and commercial facilities. 
Cummins has 430 MW of cogeneration installations 
globally with an average project size of 2 MW.  These installations represent a greenhouse gas reduction of about 500,000 metric tons of CO
2 per 
year for our customers.
Natural
gas plant85% energy output
45%
15%(U.S. Averages)
40% IN
Original fuel 
source
OUT
Usable heatOUT
Heat loss
OUT
ElectricityCombined heat and power
CHP is an efﬁcient choice. Up to 
85% of the fuel consumed can be turned into usable energy in properly sized and operated systems.44 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Cummins employees are working to reduce their 
carbon footprint both at work and at home.
What started as a voluntary commitment to the EPA to 
reduce greenhouse gases in 2006 has led to a series of initiatives to improve energy efﬁciency that depend on the skill and passion of Cummins employees.
Two successful Unplugged Challenge campaigns 
to keep energy use to a minimum over site holiday shutdowns at the end of 2008 and 2009 saved a combined 1,900 tons of greenhouse gases from  being emitted and $1.2 million. 
Smart capital expenditures on energy efﬁciency  
projects have yielded excellent returns, but in a tough economic climate, Cummins has excelled in creating a culture of energy champions to do low or no cost energy improvements. 
The Company now has 85 trained Energy  
Champions and their deputies who provide leadership, coaching and mentoring on energy efﬁciency to site Energy Leaders. The Energy Leaders are the energy experts at their particular locations. 
In addition, Cummins leaders have been on the road, 
talking personally to employees about the Company’s many opportunities to improve energy efﬁciency both at its facilities and in its products.Cummins employees embrace “envolvement”
Tower conserves millions of gallons of water
Cummins is no longer discharging  millions of gallons of water used to cool  the Company’s corporate headquarters into  a Columbus, Ind. waterway.
The Corporate Ofﬁce Building (COB) occupies 
three city blocks and can hold about 1,000 workers. When the building was completed in 1982, three ground water wells were installed around the  perimeter of the building.  
The extracted groundwater was circulated through 
the building’s heating and cooling system to support the three chillers for air conditioning.
The original plan to re-inject the ground water 
back into the aquifer failed, but since there was no cooling tower to conserve and re-circulate the water, the water was redirected to a storm sewer that empties into a nearby river.This solution was far from ideal. Not only did it use a lot of water, it took a lot of time and effort to monitor the discharges to meet the requirements of the site’s discharge permit. In addition, the well water caused the air conditioning system’s mechanical equipment to deteriorate more quickly. 
Cummins ofﬁcials considered building a tower 
several times, but cost and design challenges proved too much to overcome until a more  aesthetically pleasing tower design was suggested. The tower was completed in May of 2009 – 27 years after the COB opened. The wells have been closed and no more ground water – an estimated 22 million gallons per month – is being discharged to the river. 
Cummins is now purchasing water from the city  
of Columbus to cool the COB, and that water is re- circulated, reducing volumes signiﬁcantly. With the new cooling tower, water use is on pace to being reduced to an average of 500,000 gallons per month.45 Environment
India campus wins Chairman’s Award for energy efficiency
The Cummins India Limited (CIL) campus in Pune, 
which is primarily engine business manufacturing, won the 2010 Cummins Energy Efﬁciency Award for its body of energy savings projects over the past two years.
Those projects delivered a greenhouse gas  
reduction of 1,507 tons and energy savings of $118,000. The team also completed an energy  audit using Six Sigma tools that could save an  additional $122,000. 
The CIL team was recognized for its work in  
particular on two innovative projects – turning waste heat into air conditioning for the shop ﬂoor and the use of canteen waste by the biogas plant.
CIL installed a waste heat recovery system that 
runs on exhaust heat coming from generators.  The system reduces water temperature to 7°C. This water is circulated through fan coil units installed in the machine shop areas to produce  an air conditioning effect.
The team also used the biogas generated from 
thrown away, cooked food to fuel the cooking  of more food. 
As part of the Envolved campaign,  John Wall, Cummins Chief Technical Ofﬁcer, met with more than 4,000 employees at  24 town hall meetings in the ﬁrst half of  2010 to share Cummins’ views on climate change, reducing energy consumption and opportunities for employees to become more engaged. In addition, his presentation was videotaped and distributed to Cummins  locations around the world this spring.
The campaign is also helping employees 
become aware of energy use in their own homes and transportation. A tool on the Company’s Energy Efﬁciency Web site allows employees to measure their  personal carbon footprint.
Speaking to employees at the Cummins 
facility in Fridley, Minn. this spring, Wall said, “Climate change is a global problem that will affect everyone and we won’t solve it unless everyone gets involved.”
e
To ﬁnd out how you can become Envolved  
in the ﬁght against climate change, go to MyCumminsOur Company > Environment > Energy Efﬁciency.I was “unplugged” before it was cool to unplug.
I’m John,
and I’m  Envolved.
The “Envolved” campaign poster featuring John Forte,
Business Manager of Cummins Television Network. 46 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
Editor’s note: Cummins is engaged in a number 
of signiﬁcant partnerships on the key topics of education, the environment and social justice/improving the human condition.  Here’s a look at one:
Since it opened its doors in 1991 thanks to a  
grant from the Cummins India Foundation, Cummins College of Engineering for Women (CCEW), based in Pune, India, has given more than 4,000 women the opportunity to pursue careers  in the male-dominated world of engineering.
With the opening of a new campus earlier this year 
in Nagpur, school ofﬁcials are striving to provide the same opportunities for women hundreds of miles away, across the Indian subcontinent. “Higher education continues to be a focus  area for our foundation,” said Anant J. Talaulicar, President, Components Group, Cummins Inc.  and Managing Director of Cummins India ABO. 
“In line with this, we are humbled with the  
opportunity of being able to support Maharshi Karve Stree-Shikshan Samstha (MKSSS), helping female students fulﬁll their educational aspirations and become independent individuals capable of making signiﬁcant contributions to their families and society.”
MKSSS is a 114-year-old Indian institution  
dedicated to the cause of women’s education and social progress. It runs more than 64 educational establishments for women, including the CCEW. Preference for enrollment at the college is given  to young women from disadvantaged sections  of society. 
CCEW graduate Sayali Marathe began her career 
with IBM in 2005, and then moved on to become a senior consultant with Computer Sciences Corporation. “CCEW,” she says, “has contributed  to my professionalism, communication and the ‘never-say-die’ attitude that makes us CCEW  students stand apart!” School ofﬁcials hope  the expansion in Nagpur will lead to more  stories like Sayali’s.Signiﬁcant partnerships 
Engineering  
college opens  doors for women
Cummins College of 
Engineering for Women
Pune and Nagpur, India
“ CCEW has contributed to my  
professionalism, communication  
and the ‘never-say-die’ attitude  that makes us CCEW students  stand apart!”
Sayali Marathe 
CCEW Graduate“The respect and recognition garnered by the College 
in Pune encouraged us to look at expanding our endeavors in Nagpur,” said Vishwas Deval, Chairman of MKSSS. “We are grateful for the support and funding that has been provided by the Cummins India Foundation in helping us realize our efforts.” The Cummins India Foundation, which contributed  50 million rupees ($1.1 million) toward the new Nagpur campus, has pledged an additional 30 million rupees ($667,000) over three years, through 2012. 
Cummins India’s support for the CCEW doesn’t  
stop with ﬁnancial contributions. It also offers  signiﬁcant technical assistance to the college’s Department of Mechanical Engineering, whose degree program it helps promote. Cummins also sponsors student projects, provides experts for  lectures, and fosters recruitment of students through campus placement activities.
Companies recruiting at the CCEW have included 
Cisco, Emerson, Honeywell, John Deere, Tata Motors, Oracle, Microsoft, and Coca Cola — in addition  to Cummins. 
Inside a classroom at Cummins College of Engineering for Women in Pune, which will celebrate its 20th anniversary in 2011. 
Anant J. Talaulicar, President, Components Group and 
Managing Director of Cummins India ABO, participates  in the dedication of the Nagpur campus earlier this year.The Pune campus, which opened in 1991, has  
more than 400 students. In addition to offering under-graduate courses in Mechanical Engineering, which started in 2007, the college’s curriculum includes courses in Electronics and Telecommunications, Computer Engineering, Instrumentation and Control, and Information Technology. Last year, Cummins  welcomed 35 interns from the college.The Nagpur campus accepted 240 students  initially, 60 in each of the four degree programs it offers—Information Technology, Mechanical Engineering, Computer Engineering & Electronics  and Telecommunications. 
College ofﬁcials hope to expand in the coming years. 
For example, the current hostel connected to the college is home to about 180 women. There are plans to increase that to 700 over the next three years.
The new Cummins College of Engineering for Women campus in Nagpur. 
More than 4,000 women have attended the Cummins College of Engineering for Women. Women from disadvantaged sections
of Indian society are given preference for enrollment.49 Community PartnershipsThe Cummins Collage of Engineering for Women 
partners with Rose Hulman and Purdue Universities in Cummins’ home state of Indiana. Outstanding young women engineers from CCEW are invited to attend these universities on scholarships to pursue their master’s and doctoral studies.
To date, 31 students have taken advantage of 
the program, supported through the Cummins India Foundation. Cummins actively recruits Purdue and Rose Hulman students to add to  its engineering staff.Partnering with Purdue, Rose Hulman
Cummins College of Engineering for Women
Location: Pune and Nagpur, India
Mission: To develop women professionals who are 
academically and technically sound with a strong work ethic.
History: Founded in 1991 with a grant from the Cummins India Foundation. The college is run by Maharshi Karve Stree-Shikshan Samstha (MKSSS), 
a 114-year-old Indian institution dedicated to the cause of women’s education. Special features: The school recently opened a second campus in Nagpur.
Cummins involvement: In addition to ﬁnancial 
support, Cummins contributes technical expertise, experts for lectures, and programs to aid placement.50 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Governance lays foundation  
for business success
Cummins believes strongly that business 
success starts with good governance.
Good governance, in turn, is built on polices and  
procedures that promote ethical behavior by  Company leaders and employees and  responsiveness to all stakeholders – shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, communities,  regulators and broader society. 
Cummins is guided by the Company’s Code of 
Conduct and 10 Statements of Ethical Principles. These principles guide a host of initiatives designed to help Cummins navigate the complexities of the global marketplace. Cummins’ 10 Ethical Principles are:1 We will follow the law everywhere.
2 We will embrace diverse perspectives and  backgrounds and treat all people with dignity and respect.
3 We will compete fairly and honestly.
4 We will avoid conﬂicts of interest.
5 We will demand that everything we do leads  to a cleaner, healthier and safer environment.
6 We will protect our technology, our information  and our intellectual property.
7 We will demand that our ﬁnancial records and  processes are accurate and that our reporting  processes are clear and understandable.
8 We will strive to improve our communities.
9 We will communicate with honesty and integrity.
10 We will create a culture where all employees take responsibility for ethical behavior.Highlights
 Ten ethical principles guide Cummins.
 Ethics investigators ensure principles are upheld.
 International technical talent added to  
Cummins Board of Directors.51 Corporate GovernanceOn-line training
A key way Cummins puts these principles into  
action is through 10 on-line compliance training  programs targeting appropriate employee groups.  The training includes:
tCummins Code of Business Conduct
tThe Treatment of Each Other at Work policy
tExport Controls
tAnti-bribery/Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
tAntitrust
tEuropean Union Competition
tCareful Communication
tIntellectual Property
tManaging within the Law
tLobbying and Political ActionCompliance training (2009)
 
Course Enrolled Completion 
  rate
Code of Conduct 16,219 97%
Treatment of Each Other 16,188 98%Anti-bribery 11,394 92%Export Controls 10,930 85%
Antitrust 3,608 99%
EU Competition 1,139 99%
Careful Communication 12,395 98%Intellectual Property 3,176 98%Lobbying and Political Action 331 100%Managing with the Law 223 91%
Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels (left) and Cummins’ top ofﬁcial in China, Steve Chapman (right), examine a hybrid transit bus powered by a 
Cummins Euro IV ISB engine in Hangzhou, China, the provincial capital of Indiana’s sister province Zhejiang. The governor led a delegation from Indiana on a six-day visit to China in the fall of 2009.52 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010The Company’s policies and processes in these  
areas are periodically updated. The Treatment Policy, for example, was revised in 2009 to provide more guidance on manager-subordinate relationships.  Both the Export Controls and Anti-Bribery/Foreign Corrupt Practices Act courses were updated in 2009 and offered to targeted employees to make sure they had up-to-date information.
In 2010, Cummins started an 11th Internet-based 
compliance course that provides Information Protection training. The course covers sending  classiﬁed or conﬁdential data by email, protection  of electronic identity, acceptable use of the Internet, telecommuting and reporting procedures.
Ethics violations, reporting and investigations
In addition to training, Cummins has a global team of 
Master Investigators who investigate ethics complaints and make sure that appropriate action is taken in a timely fashion.
In 2009, the Company investigated 699 ethics-
related complaints compared to 541 in 2007 and  682 in 2008. Of those cases investigated in 2009,  53 percent resulted in a ﬁnding that the complaint had some merit and 36 percent of those resulted  in employee termination.
Complaints of unprofessional behavior and those 
grouped into the category of Human Relations accounted for more than half of the total ethics  cases investigated in 2009.The Company believes employees are becoming more comfortable with Cummins’ reporting and investigation process. The EthicsPoint system used at Cummins allows employees around the world to report concerns either through toll-free telephone numbers or on-line. Both services are available in multiple languages.
Employees can report concerns anonymously where 
allowed by law, but only 30 percent of the reports in 2009 were made that way. Most employees feel  conﬁdent enough in the process to report by name. Those reporting about any topic are protected under the Company’s anti-retaliation policy.
Cummins’ average closure of ethics cases in 2009 
was under the Company’s goal of 24 days. A Six Sigma project is being implemented in 2010 that seeks to lower the goal to 15 days. 
The Company closely monitors complaints. Each 
quarter, Business Unit leaders receive an update on complaints in their regions. Chairman and CEO Tim Solso also receives an update, and an annual update is reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Cummins Board of Directors.
Ethics certiﬁcation process
During the fourth quarter of 2009, 12,655 employees 
completed their annual Ethics Certiﬁcation. Employees certiﬁed their compliance with the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and underlying policies and reported any exceptions to Company policy. Internal Audit and Cummins Law Department reviewed all exceptions to ensure they were documented and investigated according to Company policy.53 Corporate GovernanceSupplier Code of Conduct
Cummins wants to do business with companies that 
share its values. The Company’s Supplier Code of Conduct includes provisions banning child or forced labor, respecting employee rights and providing a safe workplace for employees.
The Supplier Code was updated in 2009 to align with 
Cummins’ own internal Code of Conduct, making it clear that the Company holds suppliers to a higher standard than just compliance with local laws. 
Cummins’ purchasing department solicits a  
response from suppliers on their conduct codes  and addresses any areas of concern. If the Company  has a contract with a supplier, the Supplier Code of Conduct is included in the legal agreement.
The code has been translated into more than a dozen 
languages. By the end of 2009, Cummins had sent it to more than 6,000 suppliers with 98 percent reporting that they were in compliance.Joint venture relationships
In a number of instances around the world, Cummins 
does business through alliances with business partners and joint venture agreements to increase market  penetration, streamline supply chain management, expand product lines and/or develop new technologies.
Regardless of whether Cummins directly manages 
these alliances and joint ventures, the Company takes appropriate steps to ensure they share Cummins’ values. Cummins screens potential partners carefully and only initiates a joint venture with partners whom Company leaders know and trust. The Company makes sure Cummins’ values are included in a joint venture by making them a part of the negotiations and by ensuring Cummins employees are included on the joint venture’s board of directors.
In 2009, all North American joint-venture partners  
and distributors adopted Cummins’ Code of Business Conduct or substantially similar codes embodying  the same principles. 
Challenges ahead: Governance and Risk Management
Ethics investigations: The average closure of ethics cases at Cummins was under the Company’s goal of 24 days in 2009 but a Six Sigma project being implemented in 2010 seeks  to lower the goal to 15 days.
Economic forecasts: Cummins wants to develop 
a better way to predict when economic downturns will end so the Company can be more precise in planning for production increases. Some  manufacturing plants saw signiﬁcant swings  
in demand from quarter to quarter in 2009 and early 2010.
 Business Continuity Plans: Cummins wants to 
continue implementing Business Continuity Plans at our most critical sites, working with site leadership, which will assume responsibility for updating them.Here are three areas in Governance and Risk Management that Cummins  will be working to improve in 2010:54 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Cummins is governed by a nine-member Board of 
Directors. Seven of the nine directors are independent of the Company. Cummins Chairman and CEO  Tim Solso and President and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Tom Linebarger are the only Cummins employees  on the Board. Each Board Director must stand for election annually.
In 2010, Robert Darnall, retired Chairman and CEO 
of Inland Steel Industries, retired from the Cummins Board after serving for 21 years. The Board welcomed a new member, Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz, Founder, Chairman and CEO of Ad Astra Rocket Company  and former NASA astronaut. (To learn more about  Dr. Chang-Diaz, go to page 56)
About the Board
The Board of Directors represents and protects the 
interests of the Company’s stakeholders. The Board has the legal responsibility for overseeing the affairs  of the Company, including:
tAdopting corporate governance principles consis-
tent with the Company’s Vision, Mission and Values.
tExercising sound and independent business  judgment with respect to signiﬁcant strategic  and operational issues.
tAdvising senior management.
The board monitors: tThe performance of the Company.
tThe performance of senior management.
tThe effectiveness of internal controls and  risk management practices.
tCompliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
tCommunications and relationships with stakeholders.Cummins Board of Directors has six standing committees:tExecutive Committee
tAudit Committee
tCompensation Committee
tGovernance and Nominating Committee
tFinance Committee
tSafety, Environment and Technology Committee
 The Company complies with all New York Stock Exchange and regulatory requirements concerning  the membership of certain committees.
Internal Audit
Cummins’ Internal Audit department provides  
the Board of Directors and management with  independent, objective information on the  performance of the Company’s control environment. The Executive Director – Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. In 2009, Internal Audit published 94 audit reports and memos.
Internal Audit has a formal follow-up process to  
ensure management has addressed identiﬁed risks and implemented corrective action. A business unit leader must present a corrective action plan directly  to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors  when a function or business receives an “Unacceptable” audit grade.Cummins Board of Directors55 Corporate GovernanceRobert J. Bernhard
Vice President for Research and an engineering professor at the University of Notre Dame.  He joined the Board in 2008. 
 
Franklin R. Chang-Diaz Founder, Chairman and 
CEO of Ad Astra Rocket Company, a U.S. spaceflight engineering company based in Houston, Texas. He joined the Board in 2009.
Robert K. Herdman
Managing Director of Kalorama Partners, LLC, a Washington, D.C. – based consulting ﬁrm. He joined the Board in 2008.
 
Alexis M. Herman
Chairman and CEO of New Ventures, LLC, a corporate consulting company. She joined the Board in 2001 and currently serves as Lead Director.N. Thomas LinebargerPresident and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer of Cummins Inc.  He joined the Board in 2009.
 
William I. Miller
Chairman and CEO of Irwin Management Co., a Columbus, Ind. private investment ﬁrm.  He joined the Board in 1989.
Georgia R. Nelson
President and CEO of  PTI Resources, LLC, an  independent consulting ﬁrm. She joined the Board in 2004.
Theodore (Tim) M. Solso
Chairman and CEO of Cummins Inc. since 2000, after serving as Company President since 1995.
 
Carl Ware
Retired Executive Vice President, Public Affairs and Administration, the Coca-Cola Co. He joined the Board in 2004.
56 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz, Chairman and CEO of Ad 
Astra Rocket Company, joined the Cummins Board  of Directors in December 2009. The native of Costa Rica is the Company’s ﬁrst foreign-born board member and brings a wealth of technical expertise  to Cummins. Prior to forming his own company in 2005 to commercialize a plasma rocket technology  he helped to develop, Dr. Chang-Diaz worked at NASA for 25 years, during which time he ﬂew seven missions on the Space Shuttle. In May 2010, Dr. Chang-Diaz  sat down and shared his early impressions of Cummins and the role he hopes to play as a Director.
Q: How were you introduced to Cummins?A: I actually met (Cummins Chairman and CEO)  
Tim Solso at EARTH University last year when he came to visit the west campus (in La Flor, Costa Rica). He also visited my rocket facility there. It was pretty much instant chemistry. I have been aware of Cummins engines for most of my life. My father worked in construction, so I knew the Cummins name since I was a young boy. I even took some of the engines apart and put them together when I was young.
About two months after we ﬁrst met, Tim brought 
a group of about two dozen top Cummins leaders to visit our facility in Houston, and there was a lot of interest in what we were doing. When I was asked to consider joining the board, I was humbled and excited.
Q: What attracted you to the idea of being a Director 
at Cummins?
A: I have always been interested in energy and power. 
In fact, there are a lot of synergies between rocket technology and power. Cummins has a tremendous amount of technology that is poised to make a  difference in a changing world. I am really excited  to be joining at this important time.
Q: So, you see parallels between your work with 
rocket technology and space travel with what Cummins does?
A: Yes, especially when it comes to power  
generation and materials. In my company, we  deal with ﬂuids and materials that get very hot.  It’s the same thing that happens inside an internal combustion engine.
That requires very advanced materials and very 
advanced thermal management strategies. So there’s a tremendous amount of synergy between the kind of things I have been doing and what the company does. Who knows, we could see Cummins materials on the moon or Mars in the future (chuckling).For Chang-Diaz, it is rocket science
57 Corporate Governance
Q: You are very active in an ambitious economic and 
social development effort in Costa Rica, called the 21st Century Strategy. Can you talk about that a bit?
A: For the last four years, I have been involved with a 
very large group of scientists, politicians and thinkers, and we have developed something of a master plan. The whole concept is to make Costa Rica a ﬁrst-world country by the middle of this century.
Costa Rica is a very small country, but it is a country that 
has a lot of future and ambition. It is a country that has all the ingredients to achieve success. Politically, it is very stable and economically it is very diversiﬁed. It is also a country that has invested a great deal in education.
But, there are still a lot of needs. There is still a 
great deal of poverty and a widening gap between the rich and poor. 
Our role is like that of a ﬂight controller. All these  
projects are funded by some other group, but we  act like a very large radar screen and monitor them. Our role is to make sure they all ﬂy in the right direction  and nobody crashes.Q: Have you found your work with the strategy group to be good ﬁt for Cummins’ interests in  corporate responsibility?
A: Yes. Tim is interested in diversity, in new ideas and 
reaching out to the developing world and he is very interested in education. All these things are in concert with the work the 21st Century Strategy group is doing. There aren’t many companies that see the big picture and care as much about improving the world around them as Cummins does.
Q: What does being an effective board member  
mean to you?
A: I have a certain background that gives me a set 
of skills that aren’t better or worse than other board members, but are different. I hope that difference will allow me to identify or see certain things that might improve the company or might contribute to making the company more effective, more prosperous … make it a better company.Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz
Title: Chairman and CEO of Ad Astra Rocket 
Company. Member, Cummins Board of Directors (December 2009).
Education: Bachelor of Science degree in 
mechanical engineering from the University of Connecticut in 1973. Doctorate in applied plasma physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1977.
Career: Dr. Chang-Diaz began working on rocket 
propulsion shortly after getting his doctorate at MIT. He worked as a visiting scientist with the MIT Plasma Fusion Center from 1983 to 1993, and then served as Director of the Advanced Space Propulsion Laboratory at Johnson Space Center until 2005 when he founded Ad Astra.
In space: Chang-Diaz became an astronaut in 
1981. He was in space seven times (1986, 1989, 1992, 1994, 1996, 1998, and 2002), logging more than 1,600 hours in space, including 19 hours and 31 minutes in three spacewalks.58 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Cummins believes risk management is a key component 
of sustainability. By managing risk effectively, the Company can enjoy the kind of ﬁnancial success that enables it to engage in initiatives such as strengthening communities.
In 2009, the Company expanded its risk management 
efforts to include supplier ﬁnancial health, customer ﬁnancial health and health pandemics. The Risk Management staff developed a risk dashboard for  the Board of Directors to help them monitor the Company’s efforts in these important areas.
Business Continuity Plans
In the past year, there have been earthquakes in China, 
Haiti and Chile and a ﬂood in Nashville, Tenn. Those disasters impacted some of Cummins distributors  and served as a reminder of the importance of risk management and emergency planning.
In 2009, the Risk Management staff, working with site 
leadership, completed Business Continuity Plans for more than 80 Cummins locations. These plans include detailed information on crisis communications,  operational recovery and emergency preparedness. Business Continuity Plans updated  
for more than 80 Cummins locations.
 Information Risk Management strives  to protect Cummins’ digital resources.
 New Web site supports Cummins’  international travelers.
Ownership of the plans has been transferred to  
local site contacts who will update them on an annual maintenance schedule.
To protect Cummins’ supply chain against similar 
risks, suppliers have also been asked to create and maintain their own Business Continuity Plans. 
Information risk management
As computers and digital information become  
more important, so does global information risk  management. The mission of Cummins’ Information Risk Management (IRM) program is to reduce and mitigate information risks and secure Cummins information with practical and appropriate business solutions based on risk assessment.
IRM identiﬁes, analyzes, prioritizes and develops  
mitigation strategies to address the top information  risks for Cummins. It also supports regulatory  compliance activities through updates to information security policies and procedures and manages the  IT security infrastructure that protects Cummins  information assets.
The team also responds to attacks against the 
Company’s information assets and works to limit  any impact to the business.Managing risks key to sustainability
“ Companies with policies and procedures 
in place to manage risk effectively are much more likely to survive a signiﬁcant event than those that don’t or whose plans are incomplete,” said Brian McBroom, Cummins Director of Risk Management. Highlights59 Corporate GovernanceCummins started an Internet-based compliance 
course in 2010 that provides information protection training. The course covers such topics as sending classiﬁed or conﬁdential data by email, protection of electronic identity and acceptable use of the Internet.
International travel
As a global company, Cummins works with  
customers in countries and territories around the  world. Global travel is a key part of many employees’ jobs. Travel management is crucial to reducing risk  to the Company.
Working closely with global travel management  
companies and security intelligence suppliers,  Cummins is able track and monitor the Company’s global travelers. Cummins is updated on the latest developments worldwide, whether they involve the  risk of an insurrection in an unstable region or the  status of a viral outbreak.
Cummins has established a new Web site on the 
Company’s intranet to help employees traveling  internationally. The site links employees to iJET Intelligent Risk Systems, which provides around-the-clock medical, security and travel support to help employees as part of the Company’s Travel Smart Travel Safe initiative.
Pandemic planning
Concerns about H1N1 inﬂuenza in 2009 and 2010 
served as a reminder of the importance of pandemic planning, especially for a global company like Cummins.
Cummins has taken extensive steps to ensure the 
health and safety of employees as well as the continued functioning of the Company. Cummins formed a Pandemic Planning Team to help create a strategic response plan to the pandemic.
To learn more about Cummins’ response, please see 
the story on page 61.
Government relations  
and political activity
Cummins maintains an ofﬁce in Washington, D.C.,  
to coordinate government relations activities and monitor changes that might have a signiﬁcant impact on the Company, such as energy policy, environmental legislation, taxes, trade and transportation policy to  
name just a few.
The Company belongs to a number of trade  
organizations to further its business interests.  These organizations help Cummins by leveraging the Company’s resources with other companies on issues where we share similar interests. While Cummins might not agree with the positions these associations take on every issue, the Company believes participating in these groups helps ensure the Company’s voice is heard. 
A Company shuttle provides air service for interplant travel 
between Columbus, Ind. and seven other U.S. cities including Jamestown, N.Y.; Charleston, S.C. and Nashville, Tenn. 60 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010In 2010, Cummins strengthened its current policy 
banning political contributions using corporate funds to candidates, political parties or independent  expenditure campaigns.
Political contributions are still made by the Cummins Inc. 
Political Action Committee (CIPAC), but the committee is funded solely by voluntary employee contributions. CIPAC makes contributions to candidates on a  bi-partisan basis after review and approval by CIPAC’s Executive Committee and according to federal law.
For a complete list of the political action committee’s contributions to candidates, go to www.fec.gov. 
Lobbying
Here is a list of the trade organizations that Cummins 
paid dues to in excess of $50,000 during calendar year 2009 and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,  which fell below that $50,000 threshold. Listed with each entity is Cummins’ estimation of the portion of these dues used by the organization for lobbying or other political expenditures.
Group Amount for lobbying
The American Trucking Associations $11,930The Business Roundtable $35,718
The Diesel Technology Forum $1,250
The Engine Manufacturers Association $12,800The National Association of Manufacturers $21,012U.S. Chamber of Commerce $10,000Cummins PAC
The Cummins Inc. Political Action Committee (CIPAC) is 
governed by corporate policies and by-laws that state:
tAll CIPAC contributions are strictly voluntary.
tThe Company will not reimburse employees directly 
or indirectly for political contributions.
tEmployees will not be pressured to contribute to CIPAC or make any other personal political contribution.
tA decision not to contribute to CIPAC shall not  disadvantage anyone in any way. 
Contributions to political candidates and political  organizations are based on the following criteria:
tPublic integrity of the candidate.
tRepresentation of a Cummins facility or employees.
tSupport for issues of importance to Cummins.
tTimely and effective constituent service.
tPolitical leadership or organization.
tSupport for our core values. 
All of our political activities are disclosed to the 
Cummins Board of Directors in an annual political  contribution report.61 Corporate Governance
While the 2009 outbreak of H1N1 inﬂuenza didn’t 
hit as hard as many feared, it provided a good opportunity for global companies like Cummins  to test their response plans.
The Company already had a pandemic plan in place 
based on an earlier threat of avian ﬂu. A new H1N1 team just had to adapt it to the new conditions. 
A year ago this spring, H1N1 was very much on 
people’s minds. The virus, ﬁrst widely reported in Mexico, seemed to be striking the young and healthy. Anxiety grew in workplaces across the world whenever anyone sneezed. In June 2009, the World Health Organization classiﬁed the  outbreak as a global pandemic.
Cummins moved quickly to produce and  
distribute posters describing symptoms of H1N1 inﬂuenza along with tips on preventive hygiene. These posters were translated and placed at the entry points of Cummins facilities everywhere. Employees and visitors were urged to screen themselves and to stay home if they displayed symptoms. 
At Cummins and elsewhere, people changed their 
behaviors at work, sneezing into their elbows and making liberal use of hand sanitizer, which is still available at the entrance to many Company facilities.
To determine the appropriate local response to 
H1N1, Cummins cued off of the World Health Organization’s pandemic levels, translating these levels into speciﬁc actions for Cummins managers.
The team created response stages corresponding 
to the intensity of local conditions and arranged for all major facilities to receive up-to-date medical and travel information. It was also important to adhere to local rules and regulations. For example, at Cummins facilities in Mexico the government asked businesses to close in the early stages of the pandemic.
A Six Sigma team was launched to reﬁne and 
improve the Company’s approach to pandemics.  A diagram now details several speciﬁc activities and responsibilities for each  department in  the event of a pandemic. These steps will prepare Cummins for new H1N1 issues should the ﬂu return in the winters of 2010 and 2011 as some predict, as well as any future pandemics.
The pandemic team
The pandemic team was led by Brenda Ball, 
Executive Director - Global Compensation & Beneﬁts, and also included:
tTheodosia Rush, Director - HR Strategy
tRob Norris, Corporate Communications Manager 
tKelli Smith, Corporate Safety Manager
tJill Olds, Director - Health Care Strategy
tPat D. Breeden, Global Travel Director
tShelley Stewart, Executive Director –  
Global Security 
tDr. Marianne Lindroth
Flu outbreak puts pandemic plan into action62 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
Editor’s note: Cummins is engaged in a number 
of signiﬁcant partnerships on the key topics of education, the environment and social justice/improving the human condition.  Here’s a look at one:
With more than 800,000 residents and double-digit 
unemployment, Soweto in South Africa can be a pretty daunting place to grow up. 
But the Ithemba Institute of Technology offers 
a little bit of hope in the impoverished township along with the job skills necessary to lift youth  out of poverty.
Ithemba founder Uzendt Peters, a public school 
teacher, saw the gap growing between students who ﬁnished school and a job market that was skills-dependent.He converted a run-down school into the institute and brought in companies like Cummins to help with the curriculum. Ithemba is now ﬁlling that skills gap and at the same time, helping to make dreams of a better life come true for a growing number of Soweto residents.
“Our committed involvement in Ithemba is a clear 
win-win for all,” says John Shuttleworth, Cummins Aftermarket Director in South Africa who has worked closely with Ithemba. “Not only do  the students get hands-on, relevant training,  education and apprenticeships, we get the diesel mechanics with the knowledge and experience  we need.”
Ithemba is divided into three parts – a FET (Further 
Education and Training) school for grades 10-12, a FET college that teaches technical skills, and an adult college with evening classes. The school teaches skills in welding, diesel mechanics,  electrical engineering, ﬁtting and turning,  and hydraulics.
“South Africa has seen a severe drop in  
apprenticed artisans – in 1975 the numbers were around 33,000,” Shuttleworth said. “In 2007, the numbers had dropped to 1,500. The engineering industry faces a critical shortage of skilled diesel mechanics, particularly in the mining sector. It’s up to big industry players like Cummins to invest in addressing this now, or face major HR difﬁculties in the near future.”Signiﬁcant partnerships 
Ithemba’s
win-win proposition
Ithemba Institute  
of Technology
Soweto, South Africa
“ Our committed involvement in Ithemba 
is a clear win-win for all. Not only do the 
students get hands-on, relevant training, education and apprenticeships, we get the diesel mechanics with the knowledge and experience we need.”
John Shuttleworth 
Cummins Aftermarket Director 
South AfricaCummins has been working with Ithemba since 
Peters approached the Company at the outset of the project in 1991. In 2009, The Cummins Foundation pledged ﬁnancial support of $325,000 to match other fundraising to help the school become sustainable.
The Company also works with Ithemba through  
its Every Employee, Every Community program  and on learning opportunities like apprenticeships, “Take a Girl Child to Work Day,” motivational speeches and job shadows. 
Eighteen-year old Mmabatho Kekana spent three 
years as an Ithemba student before she chose to become a diesel mechanic (DM) learnership student and get the practical knowledge required for an apprenticeship. In just six months, she learned how  to strip and rebuild three diesel engines. 
Kekana sees a world of career possibilities in her future.“There’s a huge shortage of DMs in South Africa, and 
South Africa is deﬁnitely where I want to be. I know I’m lucky to know what I want so young. A lot of people in my neighborhood are really confused, and it shows,” Kekana said.
“Passion for your work is really important if you want 
to be successful but you need to know what it is you’re passionate about ﬁrst – that’s the hard bit,” Kekana added.
Pamela Carter, Vice President – President of the 
Distribution Business, visited Soweto last year,  where she ofﬁcially opened a mechanical workshop  for students. The workshop includes state-of-the-art tools and equipment.
“I am both humbled and excited,” Carter said during 
the opening.
“From a Company taking 20 years to make a proﬁt to 
a multi-national leader in power generation and related ﬁelds, Cummins hopes to be in partnership with Ithemba for a long, long time,” she said. 
Ithemba Institute of Technology
Location: Soweto, South Africa
Mission: Educate students in impoverished Soweto 
so they can get jobs in modern manufacturing.
History: Started by a former teacher, Uzendt Peters. 
The school is now supported by several industries in the area like Cummins. Special features: By working closely with manufacturers, Ithemba aligns its curriculum to include classes on the skills most needed by the industry so its graduates are ready.
Cummins involvement: Cummins contributes 
money, expertise and employee volunteer time. Beyond ﬁnancial support, examples include apprenticeships,  job shadows, motivational speeches and more.
Pamela Carter, Vice President – President of the Distribution 
Business, helps ofﬁcially open a new mechanical workshop for Ithemba students in the fall of 2009.64 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Corporate responsibility: 
building stronger communities
The ways that Cummins employees help strengthen their 
communities are as varied as the employees themselves. 
Often working in concert with The Cummins Foundation, 
one of the oldest corporate charities in the United States, they initiated projects over the past year to:
tExtend electricity to a remote village in India.
tRaise environmental awareness in China. 
tSupport a technical school for impoverished  
students in South Africa.
tImprove the ﬁnancial stability of a historically  black college in Memphis, Tenn.Community involvement is nothing new at Cummins. Next year, for example, the Clessie Cummins Health Clinic outside São Paulo, Brazil will celebrate 20 years serving the residents who live in the community of Guarulhos near a Cummins plant. 
Cummins employees worked on hundreds of  
projects in 2009 to fulﬁll the Company’s Corporate Responsibility Value to “serve and improve the  communities in which we live.”
Longtime Chairman and CEO J. Irwin Miller, who led 
Cummins for nearly 40 years, believed passionately that a company is only as strong as the communities where it does business. Our Corporate Responsibility value has evolved since then to become more global but Cummins’ core beliefs have not changed. 
The Company helps build stronger communities today 
through Cummins’ network of more than 150 employee-led Community Involvement Teams around the world  and the Every Employee Every Community (EEEC) program, which allows employees to be paid for up to four hours of community work. Fifty-three percent of the Company’s employees participate in EEEC, donating over 70,000 hours annually. Despite difﬁcult economic conditions, United Way participation by Cummins employees in the United States increased to an all-time high in 2009, reaching 55 percent. Highlights
 Cummins supports hundreds of community 
involvement projects around the world.
 The Company is extending its Environmental Challenge to get more employees engaged  in “green” projects in 2010.
 Cummins focuses its corporate  responsibility efforts on three priority areas: the environment, education and social justice/improving the human condition.65 Corporate ResponsibilityCummins is also active philanthropically, both as a 
company and through The Cummins Foundation,  as well as its philanthropic afﬁliates, the Cummins  India Foundation and the Philanthropic Association  of Cummins in Mexico.
Cummins encourages Company leaders to get 
involved in their communities and to practice  responsible decision making by weighing the  potential impact of their actions on all stakeholders including those in their home communities. 
“At Cummins, we believe our Company has an  
obligation to improve the communities where it does business, working together with other stakeholders  to solve problems,” said Jean Blackwell, Executive Vice President of Corporate Responsibility.
“We want a long-term relationship with these  
communities and any long term relationship is built  on trust. We see corporate responsibility ﬁrst and  foremost as building the trust necessary so we can  be an effective partner in problem solving.”Meeting our goals
Last year’s Sustainability Report outlined several key 
goals for corporate responsibility, including:
tImproving global engagement to reﬂect the growing 
importance of Cummins’ business operations outside the United States.
tProviding greater focus to philanthropy worldwide by establishing three key areas where Cummins believes it can have a signiﬁcant impact: the  environment, education and social justice/improving the human condition. 
tIncreasing leadership responsibility for community involvement and incorporating corporate  responsibility in the Company’s strategies. 
Progress was made on all three goals in the past year through initiatives such as Cummins’ 90th Anniversary Environmental Challenge. 
To celebrate the Company’s 90th anniversary in 2009, 
The Cummins Foundation challenged Cummins entities around the globe to develop and implement projects 
Employees from the Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company pass out 3,500 re-useable bags to the local community in Xiangfan, China,  
to reduce the use of plastic bags, a major pollutant in the area. 66 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010to improve the environment within their communities. 
The Foundation pledged to award the best initiatives $10,000 grants that Community Involvement Teams could donate to the community partner of their choice.
Thirteen initiatives received $10,000 grants from  
The Cummins Foundation, and ﬁve were also  honored as President’s Award winners. Here’s a brief description of the President’s Award winning projects:
tA Cummins team developed a way to bring  
electricity to the rural village of Kolha in India by using Cummins generators running on a locally available, renewable and clean energy source –  vegetable oil produced from the seeds of  Pongamia trees. 
tA team of Cummins employees developed a  sustainable solution to providing drinking water  at a school and orphanage in Wagholi, India. 
tCummins employees in Kent in the United Kingdom helped turn a 300-year-old former orchard into a teaching garden for 120 disabled students.  tEmployees at Stamford, United Kingdom, worked on a small stream suffering from high loads of  sediment, creating a more diverse ﬂow for the waterway to help remove ﬁne silts.
tCummins employees working in Fridley, Minn. removed barriers to recycling at a public housing site and signiﬁcantly increased the amount of  material collected there. 
“If our efforts are going to have the maximum impact possible, we need to focus them,” said Carole Casto, Cummins Director of Community Engagement.  “The Environmental Challenge helped us do that  while leveraging our employees’ skills in the critically  important area of our environment.”
The project was so successful, the Foundation  
committed to a ﬁve-year environmental challenge  initiative and this year will again award $10,000 each to up to 15 environmental projects from Cummins’ Community Involvement Teams.
Cummins employees in Korea participate in a Habitat for Humanity building project as part of an Every Employee  
Every Community opportunity.
67 Corporate ResponsibilitySigniﬁcant partnerships
Cummins also continued work on many partnerships 
around the world in 2009 to address issues such as sustainable agriculture, help those with developmental disabilities and educate disadvantaged young people. These partnerships include:
Cummins College of Engineering for Women: 
The mission of this college based in Pune, India is to educate women who have been under-represented in the ﬁeld of engineering. The college recently opened  a second campus in Nagpur (page 46).
The Courage Center: Cummins employees in 
Fridley, Minn. work with the Minneapolis-based center whose mission is to help those with brain and spinal cord injuries and developmental disabilities. Company employees modify a wide-range of equipment and toys so the center’s clients can experience more  productive and fulﬁlling lives (page 82).Ithemba Institute of Technology: The institute in Soweto, South Africa, provides a technical education to students who otherwise would have no access to higher education. The training provides students with critical job skills while also preparing Cummins’  workforce of tomorrow (page 62).
LeMoyne-Owen College: Cummins has helped 
this historically black college in Memphis, Tenn. restore its ﬁnancial viability and create a strategic plan for a sustainable future (page 102).
EARTH University: This institution based in 
Costa Rica teaches sustainable agriculture and  entrepreneurship to students who might never have afforded college in the hope that they will return to  their home countries and share what they learned. 
“When we can partner with an organization and  
leverage the full array of Cummins resources, we can engage employees and achieve a sustainable impact on a problem, and ultimately a healthier community,” Blackwell said (page 14).
Challenges ahead: Corporate responsibility
Cummins is committed to continuous improvement in Corporate Responsibility.  Three areas of focus in the coming year will be:
Strategy: Cummins is developing engagement 
strategies focused on ensuring vibrant and healthy communities that support Cummins as a great place to work.
 Impact: The Company is developing metrics 
to ensure the maximum impact of our corporate responsibility efforts. Leadership: Strong leadership is an important component of corporate responsibility at all  levels, from the Company’s employee-led Community Involvement Teams to site leadership. Developing expectations and providing leaders with benchmarks and metrics so they can  measure success are key steps.68 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Cummins donates millions of dollars annually to  
initiatives and organizations around the globe through its afﬁliated foundations and the Company’s operating funds. The Company invested $12.9 million in its  corporate responsibility efforts in 2009, including  $6.5 million in donations to The Cummins Foundation.
The Cummins Foundation has played a critical role 
in hundreds of initiatives since its inception. They range from programs to encourage the internationally-acclaimed architecture in the Company’s headquarters city of Columbus, Ind. to ﬁnancial support for EARTH University in Costa Rica and its mission to teach  sustainable agriculture to young people from around the world (see page 14).
While the Foundation has been working to increase its 
involvement in international efforts, the Company has separate foundations in India and Mexico that operate with very similar priorities in those countries.Grants from the Cummins India Foundation target higher education, energy and the environment, and local infrastructure improvements. 
The Philanthropic Association of Cummins in Mexico 
supports employment programs for marginalized  individuals and other charitable projects.
To see a complete list of The Cummins Foundation’s 
grants and a statement of its ﬁnancial position, go to the Sustainability/Corporate Responsibility section on Cummins.com.
The Cummins Foundation
Board of Directors
tChairman Tim Solso, Chairman and CEO, Cummins Inc.
tDirector Jean Blackwell, Executive Vice President  of Corporate Responsibility, Cummins 
tDirector Mark Gerstle, Vice President & Chief Administrative Ofﬁcer, Cummins
tDirector Tom Linebarger, President and COO, Cummins 
tDirector Will Miller, Chairman and CEO of Irwin Management Co. and Cummins Board of Directors
tDirector Marya Rose, Vice President –  General Counsel, Cummins
tDirector Pat Ward, Vice President –  Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Cummins 
Foundation OfﬁcerstChief Executive Ofﬁcer Jean Blackwell
tPresident and Secretary Tracy Souza, Executive Director of Corporate Engagement, Cummins
tTreasurer Marsha Allamanno,  Corporate Responsibility Finance Director, Cummins
A Cummins employee works on toys at one of the Children’s 
Houses charity orphanages, a charity Cummins supports in Russia. Philanthropy: A track record of commitment
69 Corporate ResponsibilityAudit Committee
tChairman Marsha Hunt, Vice President –  Controller, Cummins
tLuther Peters, Executive Director of  Internal Audit, Cummins
tJames Guilfoyle, Executive Director –  Corporate Accounting, Cummins
Investment CommitteetChairman Richard Harris, Vice President –  Chief Investment Ofﬁcer, Cummins
tGloria Griesinger, Director – Global Treasury and Pensions, Cummins
tMarsha Hunt
Responding to disasters
While disaster relief is not a primary focus of Cummins’ philanthropic effort, the Company and the Foundation respond when communities are impacted where we have facilities or distributors. Here’s a look at what we’ve done in the past year:
Haiti: After the earthquake in Haiti in January, 
Cummins Foundation committed $250,000 to relief efforts with an additional $100,000 from U.S. and Canadian distributors. In addition, ﬁve 600-kilowatt Cummins generators provided power to the U.S. Embassy shortly after the quake struck. A group of employees is working now to determine how to donate the committed funds in a way that will be  sustainable and beneﬁt an underserved population.
Chile: The Cummins Foundation committed to a 
$100,000 donation for earthquake relief in Chile,  
which was supplemented with $50,000 from the  distribution network. Working through our Distribution joint venture in Chile, we determined how the funds could be effectively used. Ten ﬁshing boats and  engines will be purchased for families whose homes and livelihoods were destroyed by the February quake in the coastal town of Pelluhue. Cummins partnered on the project with Komatsu, which contributed equipment to help with the cleanup as well as a truck to provide safe drinking water to residents.
Nashville, Tenn: The Foundation has donated 
$100,000 to the Community Foundation of Middle Tennessee for ﬂood relief and has set up a Disaster Recovery Assistance Fund where employees can  contribute directly to other employees who were impacted by the May ﬂood.
Dave Smitson, President of Cummins Crosspoint LLC, presents  
a donation of $100,000 from all 16 U.S. and Canadian distributors who donated equally to contribute to the rebuilding effort in Haiti. Cummins employees Alex Duge and Jacquelyn Jean-Claude, who have ties to Haiti, are serving on a group to help identify projects for The Cummins Foundation to fund. A Cummins employee donates time at the Clessie Cummins 
Health Clinic outside São Paulo, Brazil. 70 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
At Cummins, our employees love a good challenge.
So perhaps it’s no surprise that when challenged to 
harness their knowledge, skills and muscle for the environmental beneﬁt of the communities where they live and work, the response was overwhelming.
More than 3,200 employees from 11 countries worked 
an estimated 33,450 hours on projects. Greenhouse gases were reduced by 538 tons, the equivalent of 54,000 gallons of gasoline. The Foundation awarded 13 grants of $10,000 each in 2009. Five of the 13 projects were judged to be President’s Award winners. Here are their stories:
Positively illuminating
Lighting up Kolha, India
Like many remote villages in India, activity pretty much 
stopped in the village of Kolha not long after sunset.
That is until August 2009 when a Cummins  
team developed a way to power the rural village of  65 households by using Cummins generators running  on a locally available renewable energy source –  non-edible vegetable oil produced from the seeds  of Pongamia trees.
“Ever since Cummins forayed in India half a century ago, 
we have been committed to deploying our technology and human expertise towards the development of both the nation’s economy and its people,” said Anant J. Talaulicar, President, Components Group, Cummins Inc., and Managing Director – Cummins India.
“We believe that this rural electriﬁcation initiative using 
locally available, low cost, renewable energy sources  is an important ﬁrst step taken in the direction of electrifying remote villages and making people’s lives better in the rural sections of our nation,” he added  at a ceremony earlier this year celebrating the ﬁrst phase of the initiative, one of the Environmental Challenge’s President’s Award winners.
The Kolha project started two years ago when 
Cummins India Limited collaborated with the Cummins Engine Research Facility at IIT (Indian Institute of Technology) Bombay and the READ Foundation to develop a sustainable electriﬁcation model for remote villages across India. The collaboration wanted to use locally renewable energy sources that would minimize overall carbon emissions.
A family in the village of Kolha in India enjoys the beneﬁts of 
electricity thanks to a Cummins project using generators fueled by an inedible vegetable oil. Rising to our  
environmental challenges71 Corporate ResponsibilityA generator set operating on vegetable oil was 
designed and tested at the Cummins Engine Research Facility. In August 2009, the generator was successfully installed and shortly thereafter villagers had electricity.
The project meant light for the village residents so 
they can more comfortably enjoy activities at night, said Subramaniam Ravichandran, Senior General Manager of the Growth Ofﬁce at the Power Generation Business Unit of Cummins India Ltd. In addition, there is reserve power to run a water pump for irrigation and drinking water in the future.
“We developed this project and concept under three 
simple principles: green, sustainable, and scalable,” said Beau Lintereur, Vice President of the Power Generation Business Unit at Cummins India. “For me, the most interesting and satisfying aspect of the project is the focus on economic sustainability. In addition  to beneﬁting the lives of the people of Kolha, the  installation serves as our living laboratory to evaluate the performance of the technology in a real social setting.” 
The system at Kolha holds the potential to create 
demand for greater quantities of vegetable oil for sale, creating an additional income source for villagers.  The next phase of the project will be developing a system so in addition to vegetable oil, the generator can also run on biogas. 
“Cummins is humbled to play a small, yet signiﬁcant 
role in improving the lives of the 65 families living in Kolha,” said Jean Blackwell, Executive Vice President – Corporate Responsibility and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of The Cummins Foundation, who also attended the celebration in Kolha.
The Foundation grant money will go towards efforts  
to provide power to two more remote villages in a cooperative effort with the Indian government.
Going with the ﬂow
The River Chater project, Stamford, UK
If the River Chater wasn’t dead, it was fading fast.
Located near Stamford in the United Kingdom, the  
river for years has been plagued by high loads of  sediment due to intensive agricultural practices in the area. In addition, it suffered from the impact of a ﬁne  grit and mud from quarrying operations within the  river’s watershed.Village residents help with the installation of the poles and wires 
necessary to bring power from the Cummins’ generator to individual homes. 72 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010The sediment made the area inhospitable for ﬁsh, 
aquatic plants and the invertebrates upon which all  life in a river ultimately depends.
Part of the river runs near the Cummins Generator 
Technologies Plant in Stamford. The waterway’s  fortunes started to change when a team from the  plant as well as some Cummins retirees joined forces with several groups, including the Grantham Angling Association, the Wild Trout Trust and the Natural England environmental group. 
They worked together to encourage the river to 
meander a little more and create deeper pools to speed up the ﬂow of the water. That, in turn, helped  to remove ﬁne silts from the gravel along the river bottom and began to create the kind of environment where ﬁsh can thrive.
“It was a superb project to be involved with, and  
we really enjoyed working on it,” said volunteer  coordinator Heulwen Summerﬁeld. “I think it was  the simplicity of using recycled materials from our  site to beneﬁt the environment that really made the  project special.”
Using recycled timbers from CGT Stamford, the river 
keepers from Grantham Angling created a mid-stream timber island. The recycled wood held hazel bundles in place to trap the silt and over time create an island of reeds and marsh. The river ﬂows around the island now at an increased velocity, which cleans the gravel and scours pools downstream of the structure.
In addition, the team used live willow stakes along the 
river’s edge to stop erosion. The team hopes the live pieces of willow will take root and become trees that will provide additional bank support.
The Environmental Challenge President’s Award 
winning project will take several years to achieve its full potential. However, during a recent site inspection, team members observed more aquatic plant diversity, and trout were seen to have moved into the work area.
“We felt it was a special project and we’re all really 
pleased with how it turned out,” Summerﬁeld said. 
The team has given its $10,000 grant from the 
Cummins Foundation to the Grantham Angling Association to pay for additional projects. It also  plans to make environmental work a regular part  of its Every Employee Every Community program.
Harvesting water
The Wagholi School project near Pune, India
The Wagholi School and Orphanage near Pune, India 
provides food, shelter and education to the children in its care. But from November to April during the dry season, the school has trouble providing one very basic necessity: water.
The school has regularly had to go to the expense of using 
water tankers to get through the dry season. Money spent on the tankers can’t go to other needs at the school.So volunteers from Cummins Research & Technology India (CRTI) Pune initiated the Rain Water Harvesting Project to improve the water table in the area and keep the school and orphanage from having to go to the expense of trucking in water. Other Cummins entities across India also contributed to the effort. 
“It was an excellent opportunity to identify and  
contribute to a grass roots project,” said Team Leader The mid-stream island begins to take shape.73 Corporate Responsibility
Lokesh Agrawal, Customer Interface Leader at CRTI 
in Pune. “As an engineer, this provided me with a huge sense of contentment.”
Cummins’ operations have an ongoing relationship 
with the school and orphanage, working together on a variety of initiatives. On the water harvesting project, Cummins employees and school personnel took several steps, including:
tPlanting trees to help hold water on the school grounds.
tDeveloping a roof-top system to redirect rainwater 
to better recharge the water table in the area.
tReplacing an electrical pump with a hand pump to reduce the school’s carbon footprint. The pump also reminds students that pumping water is hard work and that water should not be wasted.
tUsing an existing well on the grounds as a storage tank to improve the efﬁciency of storage efforts and tap any water source nearby the well.
tCreating trenches on the property to encourage rain water storage and percolation. 
Getting anything to grow on the school grounds is a challenge but the team reports that about 30 of the  70 trees it planted survived.
 
 Since the improvements were made at the  Wagholi school, the local school authority has  started implementing the same concepts at several other buildings.
“When we heard that, it was a feeling of ‘Wow,  
we made a difference!’” Agrawal said. “It was a  tremendous learning for me and I think the team as well. We felt like we were contributing back to nature.”
The project team is using its $10,000 grant to support 
a non-proﬁt charitable trust that is creating awareness about global warming and helping with renovation efforts to keep three biogas plants operating.
Bearing fruit
Inspire Orchard offers opportunities to  special needs students
Where others could perhaps only see an overgrown  
former orchard, the team at Cummins Power Generation in Kent in the United Kingdom saw  a way to inspire disabled students.
Working with the Royal School for Deaf Children 
Margate, they helped transform a 300-year-old orchard on the school property into a teaching  garden for the more than 120 students at the school. 
“For some students, this may be the only  
opportunity they have to experience the environment up close due to physical limitations or health issues,” said Tracy Day, the Community Involvement Leader  at Cummins Power Generation in Kent. 
The project, called Inspire Orchard, isn’t the ﬁrst  
initiative that Cummins Power Generation in Kent and the school have joined forces on. They have The team on the Wagholi project installs a hand pump to help 
teach students that pumping water is hard work and that water should not be wasted. 74 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010collaborated on projects to paint student  
dormitory rooms, provide classroom painting  supplies, create accessible paths at Monkshill Farm nearby and provide a holiday outing for students. Cummins offered volunteer muscle as well as funding for the refurbished orchard area, which is now accessible by wheelchair from student housing areas and the school through a series of sidewalks. There is also a fenced-in pond area and an observation building for safe viewing. 
Careful consideration was taken in planning the location 
of the composting site, planting boxes and even outdoor seating at the orchard to create an inviting open space. 
Students and staff will now be able to make  
observations about the bio-diverse pond, experience bird watching, hunt for insects, enjoy nature walks, participate in and learn about composting and take part in other outdoor learning opportunities. 
The project also included the renovation of an old 
shed to bring it up to acceptable safety and code standards. With the shed, students and staff will have an indoor area to meet and a place to store supplies for student-maintained vegetable patches nearby.
“It is vital that these young people develop knowledge 
and skills that will make them more employable, and also that they understand the links between food and healthy lifestyles,” Day said.
The Community Involvement Team at Kent is donating its 
$10,000 Foundation grant to a trust fund for the school.
By restoring the overgrown orchard (above and below),  
Cummins employees in Kent, United Kingdom, may be  providing some disabled students their best opportunity  to experience nature. 75 Corporate ResponsibilityA green machine
Parkview Villa project in Fridley, Minn.  
demonstrates the power of collaboration.
It started rather simply with an observation about the 
recycling program at the Cummins Power Generation plant in Fridley, Minn. 
But it wasn’t long before the plant’s Parkview Villa project 
was building stronger communities, protecting animals, giving disabled individuals the job skills they need to one day ﬁnd a job and, oh yes, increasing recycling. 
This Environmental Challenge President’s Award 
winner is testament to the power of collaboration when it comes to addressing community concerns.
“The ease of working with our community partners has 
been the highlight of the project,” says David McGinty, a Six Sigma black belt and a Community Involvement Team leader in Fridley. “We made an incredible team and achieved outstanding results.”The roots of the project go back to the plant’s  arrangement with Rise Inc. to pick up recyclable  material. Rise’s mission is to support people who  have disabilities and other barriers to employment. Several Cummins employees admired Rise’s work  and wondered if they could help ﬁnd other  opportunities for its employees.
Coincidentally, McGinty had been active with a  
separate group called CommonBond, whose mission is to build affordable housing as a stepping stone to success. The team at Fridley started to look for ways the two groups could work together. 
Noting that recycling participation is low at many 
low-income housing facilities, particularly among older residents, the team in Fridley wondered if employees from Rise could help residents boost recycling rates at Parkview Villa, an affordable housing development near Fridley.
Cummins employees regularly visit Parkview Villa to work on beautiﬁcation projects and to interact with residents in addition to the 
recycling initiative. Here,. Antonio Almeida (left), Director of Materials, and Mehdi Kalantarzadeh (right), Director of Power Electronics,  visit with two residents. 76 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010The Cummins team completed a survey in multiple  
languages to reach out to Parkview’s diverse residents  and discovered they were willing to recycle if the process was simple. Many had difﬁculty walking  down to the area where the recyclable material was picked up. 
Participation would increase even higher, the survey 
showed, if the activity was tied to another cause  like animal welfare and the local Humane Society.  So the team set out containers for residents to drop off not only recyclables but also items requested by the Humane Society.
The number of Villa residents recycling increased  
from 38 to more than 80. Rise is getting more  work. And the animals at the Humane Society are beneﬁtting, too. Residents at Parkview today proudly display stickers on their doors that they are participating in the program, creating a stronger  sense of community.
And Cummins employees now visit monthly to 
help with beautiﬁcation efforts and to interact with Parkview’s residents. 
McGinty said the Environmental Challenge grant will 
go toward replicating the success of the Parkview project at other housing centers.
“We can turn the $10,000 into $20,000 and expand the 
program at other sites throughout the Twin Cities,” he said.
The Cummins project has built a sense of community at Parkview 
Villa through the recycling initiative and improvement projects.77 Corporate ResponsibilityOther Environmental Challenge grant winners
As part of the 90th Anniversary Environmental Challenge, 
projects were reviewed evaluating the environmental beneﬁt of each initiative, the level of employee  engagement and the sustainability of each project. 
In addition to the President’s Award winners, the  
following Community Involvement Team projects also won $10,000 grants from The Cummins Foundation for use by the non-proﬁt, non-governmental  community partner of their choice:
tA project urging people to replace their cars with bicycles and increase recycling in Xiangfan, China. 
tAn initiative to increase public energy savings and reduce emissions in Xi’an, China. 
tA tree planting and beautiﬁcation effort in a wooded area of Wuxi, China.
tThe cleanup of a community site in preparation for the World Expo in 2010 in Shanghai, China. 
tA water harvesting project at the Village of  Chaufula, India.
tA tree planting campaign in Juarez, Mexico. 
tA project to clean up garbage and construction waste from a site in Craiova, Romania. 
tRaising funds for an elderly home  in Singapore by recycling. 
Cummins employees in Juarez, Mexico, plant trees as part  
of their Environmental Challenge project. 
Community Involvement Team members celebrate their Environmental Challenge project to increase public energy savings  and reduce emissions in Xi’an, China. 78 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010GRANTEE ORGANIZATION COMMUNITY GRANT OR DONATIONCUMMINS 
FOUNDATIONSCUMMINS INC.
Community Development - Education
CAF-Ashliegh Erin Foundation a.k.a.  
Ithemba Institute of TechnologyJohannesburg, South Africa$125,000
Memphis Youth Leadership Program Memphis, TN $63,000
Chautauqua Children’s Safety  Education Village Jamestown, NY $50,000
China Charity Foundation - for desks and chairs at rural schoolsXiangfan, China $25,000
Community Education Coalition Columbus, IN $25,000
Cornerstone Middle School Cookeville, TN $25,000
Youth About Business Nashville, TN $25,000
Putnam County Schools Cookeville, TN $25,000
Shree Ramkrishna Charities - support of school Pune, India $31,000
Fridley High School Fridley, MN $21,200
Bilton Junior School Daventry, U.K. $13,500
Connected Community Partnership Columbus, IN $10,000
LCNFC - Youth Employment Program Columbus, IN $10,000Corporate responsibility funding
In 2009, Cummins invested $12.9 million in its corporate 
responsibility efforts, including $6.5 million in funding to The Cummins Foundation as well as employee volunteer hours on Company time, donations and sponsorships from operating funds and staff involved in growing our efforts around the world. 
The Cummins Foundation made grants of $4.5 million 
primarily focused on communities where Cummins  facilities are located and in support of the Company’s global priorities of education, the environment and  social justice. In addition, there were grants totaling $700,000 from Cummins supported foundations in India and Mexico. The Cummins India Foundation supports higher  education, energy, the environment and local  infrastructure projects. The Philanthropic Association  of Cummins in Mexico (AFIC) supports employment  programs for marginalized individuals and other  charitable projects. 
A sample of Cummins larger philanthropic contributions 
is included below. For a complete list of grants from  The Cummins Foundation go to www.cummins.com.
*79 Corporate ResponsibilityGRANTEE ORGANIZATION COMMUNITY GRANT OR DONATIONCUMMINS 
FOUNDATIONSCUMMINS INC.
Community Development - Environment
Xi’an Environmental Protection Bureau Xi’an Shaanxi, China $25,000
Yongsheng Country Rural Community 
Development Assoc.Changliang Village, China$25,000
Chengdu Environmental Protection Propaganda & Education CenterChengdu, China $20,000
Community Development - Social Justice
Right to Play Phuket, Thailand $106,166
Clessie Cummins Health Clinic São Paulo, Brazil $100,000
New Song Mission Columbus, IN $82,490
Minnesota Indian Women’s Resource Center Fridley, MN $71,000
Courage Center Fridley, MN $66,026
Community Access Network Project Columbus, IN $50,000
The ARC of Bartholomew County Columbus, IN $40,000
AFIC Community Based Service Awards San Luis Potosi, 
Mexico$39,000
CAF - Russia Charity Foundation Children’s 
Houses/Rybnoye OrphanageMoscow, Russia $32,840
World Vision Hongkong -sport in a box programXiangfan, China $25,000
Brazil Sewing Shop São Paulo, Brazil $25,000
Habitat for Humanity Singapore $25,000
Amherst H. Wilder Foundation Fridley, MN $25,000
Lincoln Central Neighborhood Family Center Columbus, IN $25,000
Friends of the Stoughton Area Youth Center Stoughton, WI $25,000
The BOMA Fund Kenya, Africa $25,000
Street Source Pune, India $25,000*80 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
GRANTEE ORGANIZATION COMMUNITY GRANT OR DONATIONCUMMINS 
FOUNDATIONSCUMMINS INC.
Community Development - Social Justice (continued)
Love Chapel Columbus, IN $20,000
Wuxi Child Welfare House Wuxi, China $18,700
MP Welfare Association for the Blind Pune, India $18,300
Columbus Regional Hospital Foundation - 
Volunteers in Medicine ClinicColumbus, IN $15,000
Rybnoye Orphanage Russia $12,500
CommonBond Communities Fridley, MN $12,000
Poona School and Home for the Blind Pune, India $10,750
Memphis Cultural Arts Center -  Watoto de AfrikaMemphis, TN $10,000
*81 Corporate Responsibility
GRANTEE ORGANIZATION COMMUNITY GRANT OR DONATIONCUMMINS 
FOUNDATIONSCUMMINS INC.
Community Development - Education, Social Justice
Cummins India Engineering School for Women Pune, India $430,000
LeMoyne-Owen College Memphis, TN $100,000
CAF - Willoughby School Borne, UK $43,764
Metanoia Charleston, SC $25,000
Community Development - Education, EnvironmentIndianapolis Zoo - The Indianapolis Prize Indianapolis, IN $225,000
Employee Engagement - Social JusticeUnited Way Agencies United States $2,023,671
Signature Projects - Education, Environment, Social JusticeEARTH University Guacimo, Limon, 
Costa Rica$1,200,000
* Cummins Foundations includes payments 
made from The Cummins Foundation, Cummins India Foundation and Asociacion Filantropica de Cummins AC.
*82 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
Editor’s note: Cummins is engaged in a number  
of signiﬁcant partnerships on the key topics  of education, the environment and social  responsibility/improving the human condition. 
 
As an engineer at Cummins Power Generation in Fridley, Minn., Mark Weber works on quality and warranty issues.
But when he’s at the Courage Center, he’s an  
engineering magician, transforming toys and  appliances so that disabled children and adults  can use them with a slight move of the hand or  a blink of an eye.
Weber is among ﬁve current and retired  
Cummins engineers who volunteer their time  and engineering skills at the Courage Center,  a rehabilitation facility based in Minneapolis for people with disabilities. They are part of a larger Cummins group that has devoted time and energy into building a strong partnership with the center.
The partnership was launched in 2005 with  
several Every Employee, Every Community (EEEC) projects. In 2006, engineers like Weber got involved at the center’s Assistive Technology Lab where they use their engineering skills to redesign common tools or toys so they can be used by  the disabled.
Today, that partnership is stronger than ever.  
“What we’ve really been able to do at the Courage Center is to build on the work of our volunteer engineers,” said Sue Piva, the Power Gen Global Community Service Leader. The relationship between the Courage Center and Fridley’s Community Involvement Team (CIT)  is two-way collaboration that serves as a model for how Cummins CITs interact with their community partners. It has evolved from the re-engineering work to involvement in other projects including a fall prevention program for the frail and elderly, a playground accessibility review, and a robotics day camp. 
The Fridley CIT has provided funding for projects 
such as a program for vocational services and  work readiness, a shop services marketability study, equipment for the Assistive Technology Lab, and a “Closing the Gap” conference for therapists. 
But there is nothing quite like the work done  
week after week at the center by Weber and  his colleagues – Mike Miller, Mike Scheuerell,  Peter Vancalligan and John Heinz, now retired. They take seemingly simple devices that able- bodied people take for granted and adapt them for Courage Center clients, in many cases  transforming the quality of their lives. Some  examples of their work include:
tThey have adapted Bluetooth headsets so 
people who do not have the use of their hands and arms can control the devices with a slight head movement.
tThey have modiﬁed doorbells and reworked bed controls for patients with ALS, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, so they can operate them with minimal effort. 
tThey organize group events every Christmas to modify toys so that children with disabilities  can use them just like able-bodied children.Signiﬁcant partnerships 
Courage Center 
dispenses hope
Courage Center
Minneapolis, Minn.The story of one little girl, Mary Kate, shows the  
power of their work. Mary Kate, born with spinal muscle atrophy, can only move her right index ﬁnger. The engineers needed to ﬁnd a way to allow Mary Kate to use a computer even though she can push less than half a pound, less than the pressure needed to move the average mouse or joystick. 
Weber and his team found one joystick that might 
have worked, but it required more strength than  Mary Kate had. So the team kept working and  experimenting until they came upon the solution – modify the computer’s joystick with a pressure- sensitive switch, enabling the youngster to use the computer just like any other child. “Doing this work for the Courage Center allows us  to use our skills that not a lot of people have,”  Weber said. More than that, it gives Weber and his  co-workers a chance to be creative as they ﬁgure  out how to rewire something as simple as a squirt  gun so that a disabled child can use it by pressing  a button rather than squeezing a trigger.
“It might sound like a simple thing,” said Jan Malcolm, 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Courage Center, “but a squirt gun that works for a child with a signiﬁcant  disability is pretty important.”
Courage Center
Location: Minneapolis, Minn.
Mission: To empower people with disabilities 
to realize their full potential in every aspect of life.
History: The nonproﬁt organization was founded in 
1928 to provide tools, technologies and resources to improve the lives of disabled children and adults.
Special features: Specializes in treating brain injury, 
spinal cord injury, stroke, chronic pain, autism and  disabilities experienced since birth.Cummins involvement: In addition to ﬁnancial support from The Cummins Foundation and Cummins Power Generation, the Community Involvement Team at Fridley provides volunteer support, including the work of ﬁve engineers who adapt technology to be used by people who are disabled.
Mary Kate (left), can only move her right index ﬁnger. Thanks to Cummins engineers like Mark Weber and Mike Miller, she can use a 
specially designed joystick to operate a computer. They also re-engineer electronic toys and devices so disabled children can use them. 84 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Employee relations: 
Creating a safe working environment
By aggressively identifying gaps and 
developing strategies to close them, Cummins was able to make 2009 one  of the Company’s safest years ever. 
With an eye toward prevention, Cummins safety teams 
across the globe worked together to standardize safety processes, enhance employee involvement in safety and eliminate hazards from the workplace. 
Best practice safety projects were implemented in 
Cummins facilities from Denver, Colorado to Wuxi, China that contributed to overall safety gains in 2009, which included:
tA 40 percent drop in the Company’s Severity Lost 
Work Day Rate representing a reduction of more 2,400 lost work days.
tA 37 percent reduction in Major Incidents or Dangerous Occurrences, from 84 such incidents  in 2008 to 53 in 2009.tSixty-one Cummins sites ended 2009 with 12-month rolling Severity Lost Work Day rates of zero. There were no fatalities at any Cummins facility in 2009.
“Cummins has developed a system for managing  health and safety concerns globally,” said Michelle Garner-Janna, Director of Corporate Safety and Health at Cummins. “This system involves standard health  and safety goals, programs and metrics. Cummins  recognizes the uniqueness of each entity while applying the same criterion for success across the Company.”
‘Red Flag’ program working
Cummins is able to identify and assess potential safety 
hazards, set key objectives and monitor health and safety performance in a uniform way across all facilities thanks to Cummins Health and Safety Management System.
The system sets minimum expectations at Cummins 
facilities for the lockout and tagout of equipment, chemical safety, ergonomics, driver safety, emergency preparedness and much more. The Company  incorporated Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series speciﬁcations into the  management system in late 2007.
One important part of the system is the “Red Flag” 
program. Under this initiative, Cummins sites having the worst safety performance metrics and highest risk levels are identiﬁed as “Red Flag Sites.” Highlights
 2009 one of the safest years ever at Cummins.
 Several new initiatives keep safety top of mind 
across the Company.
 Cummins targets cell phone use while driving to keep employees safe.85 Employee RelationsThese sites participate in safety strategy review  
sessions with business unit and corporate safety leaders and undergo in-depth safety audits.  Progress toward closing identiﬁed gaps is then  closely monitored.
A location is not removed from the list until it has passed 
a ﬁve-day audit of safety processes at the site and a follow up visit by a member of the Corporate Safety staff.
Raising awareness, preparation
In 2009, Cummins launched several additional efforts 
to improve safety. A safety newsletter was created and distributed to all Cummins sites globally to allow the sharing of best practices and to complement plant-based efforts to keep safety top of mind.
“While the Company realizes the cultural differences 
within the regions in which we operate, we hold all  of our sites to the same safety standards so  communication is critical,” said Kelli R. Smith, Cummins Corporate Safety Manager. 
Cummins also introduced in 2009 a requirement that 
all Safety Functional Excellence Leaders become Certiﬁed Safety Professionals by the end of 2010.  That designation is a premier credential for safety  professionals, indicating competency through  education, experience and examination.
“The professional development plan will be expanded 
each year to ensure that we have qualiﬁed safety leaders throughout the organization who are  technically capable of managing sustainable safety systems now and in the years to come,”  Garner-Janna said.
Driver safety focus in 2010
The Company will also continue to aggressively 
pursue gains in safety in 2010, launching the Cummins Driver Safety Program. Auto-related  incidents have become a leading cause of on- the-job injury and death for companies worldwide.
It has been estimated that up to 45 percent of auto-
related incidents occur during the course of work. “Making driver safety a principal initiative will help protect Cummins employees and those they share the road with,” said Jim Dorris, Corporate Senior Safety Specialist. 
The Cummins Power Generation Plant in Craiova, Romania underwent a major facelift starting in 2009. 86 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010One major aspect of the program governs cell phone 
use. Cummins is joining a small but growing number of companies prohibiting the use while driving of two-way communication devices such as cell phones and two-way radios – even those with hands-free technology.“Cummins is committed to providing a safe workplace for all of our employees across the world – whether it is a manufacturing plant, ofﬁce building or vehicle being driven for work purposes,” Garner-Janna said. “Nothing is more important to us than the safety of our employees, suppliers, visitors and the communities in which we live and work.”
A dramatic change for the better
Employees at the Cummins Power Generation Plant in Craiova, Romania, know ﬁrsthand that a safe plant makes for a much more productive workplace.
Perhaps no Cummins facility in the past two years has 
undergone a more signiﬁcant facelift than the roughly 50-year-old plant in the southern part of the country.
The more than $700,000 worth of work starting in 
December 2009 included:tReplacing four cranes
tCreating a safe pedestrian walkway
tInstalling a new roof in the machining area
tImproving lighting throughout the plant
The work transformed the formerly dark, cluttered  facility into a brightly lit, freshly painted, much more modern plant that is today a much safer place to work.
Before and after pictures from part of the Cummins Power Generation Plant in Craiova, Romania.  
Improved lighting, clearer walkways and fresh paint have pleased Cummins employees.87 Employee Relations
“Satisfaction has increased within the plant,” said Ana 
Maria Mitoi, Cummins Health, Safety and Environment Leader in Romania. “We are all very proud of the improvements that were made, but we recognize that each person’s actions, on a minute-by-minute basis, are critical to a truly safe environment.”
Employees and their managers worked together on 
most of the changes, which weren’t just cosmetic.  The team in the assembly area, for example, looked  at whether they could change the way they worked  to build alternators more efﬁciently.Analyzing their existing processes, they calculated  that assembly operators walked collectively  15 kilometers to build just one alternator. By providing complete kits of alternator parts at the point of use, the team reduced operator movement by almost  90 percent.
“Safety often goes hand-in-hand with efﬁciency,” said 
Kelli R. Smith, Cummins Corporate Safety Manager. “We’re already seeing that since the changes were implemented in Craiova.”
Cell phone use banned to improve driver safety 
Nearly 80 percent of all crashes in the United States involve some form of driver distraction within three seconds of impact, according to the National Highway Trafﬁc Safety Administration.
With that in mind, Cummins has prohibited the use 
while driving of two-way communications devices such as cell phones and two-way radios.
The 2010 Cummins Driver Safety Program also  
prohibits the use of computers, Personal Digital Assistants and iPhones while operating a motor vehicle.
“Cummins has made the decision to give our road 
safety strategy a more structured, consistent approach going forward,” said Jim Dorris, Corporate Senior Safety Specialist.
Due to the growing use of cell phones for business 
purposes, industry experts say employers are facing liability threats for automobile accidents caused by  the distracted driving of their employees.
Cummins is joining a small but growing number of 
companies that have decided to implement bans.“One part of our Mission is to ensure that everything we do leads to a cleaner and safer environment,” said Michelle Garner-Janna, Director of Corporate Safety and Health. “That extends to the roads we share with others.”
Safe travels
To minimize the risk of a car crash,  Cummins employees are:
tProhibited from using a cell phone  
or two-way communication device  while driving.
tProhibited from using a computer or  PDA while driving.
tRequired to use seat belts.
tRequired to use helmets for open  motorized vehicles (such as motorcycles, motorized bicycles).
tRequired to drive in a responsible manner and avoid distracted and aggressive driving. 88 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010 
Valuing diversity is a business imperative as Cummins looks to enter new markets in an increasingly diverse and global marketplace.
With most of the world’s economic growth projected to 
take place in developing countries between now and 2050, workplace diversity is more important than ever.
Cummins’ updated Business Case for Diversity, 
adopted in December 2008, establishes four goals for the Company to leverage the greatest beneﬁt from a diverse workforce. These goals are the primary focus of the Global Diversity strategy at Cummins: 
Challenges ahead: Safety
Safety ofﬁcials at Cummins will be working to make improvements in these areas in 2010:
Cummins Severity Lost Work Day Rate: While 
Cummins Incidence and Severity Case Rates are better than the industry average, improvement is needed in the Severity Lost Work Day Rate. Cummins ended 2009 with a rate of 6.29, against a goal of 6.0. Several Six Sigma projects have been launched to address this issue and corporate safety is working directly with the sites that are currently experiencing the highest rates. 
Major Incidents or Dangerous Occurrences: 
While the Company did have fewer incidents and occurrences in 2009 than in 2008, our goal is to drive that number to zero. Corporate Safety  implemented improved reporting mechanisms in 2009 that involve senior leadership in the  process. The department has also improved the communication channels for investigations and corrective actions. 
Red Flag sites: Cummins tracks each site’s 
performance on a monthly basis. While the process was successful in driving improvement  so that many sites dropped off the list in 2009, other sites are above corporate targets for key performance indicators and were added to the  list for 2010. They will continue to be closely  monitored and supported by both their  business unit as well as corporate safety.  Quarterly strategy reviews, Enterprise Safety  Risk Management Audits, and frequent  communications are just some of the  requirements of the process.
Connecting diversity to the bottom line
Highlights
Updated Diversity Business Case rolled out 
to Cummins employees.
Cummins produces new 22-minute video on the key role diversity plays at the Company.
Cummins launches new initiative with  Afﬁnity Group members and their managers to improve effectiveness.Employee RelationstCreate a workplace population with  
representation that is similar to the markets  in which the Company operates.
tDemand that the workplace at Cummins is safe  and inclusive for all individuals and organizations.
tDevelop a collective behavior at Cummins that encourages all individuals and employees to best use their talents.
tCapitalize on a diverse workforce to enhance the Company’s competitive position in the marketplace.
“Sixty percent of our revenues come from  international markets,” says Chairman and CEO  Tim Solso. “We manufacture more outside of the United States than inside the United States. So  recognizing different cultures, different languages, hiring people from those backgrounds, making sure that they’re included, (that) they have an opportunity  to develop to their full potential, is really important.” 
Cummins measures success not only in terms of the 
diversity of the Company’s workforce, and compliance with all applicable rules and regulations, but also in the way employees treat each other at work and ultimately by Cummins’ bottom line.By partnering with Company employees – from  the production line to senior leadership, the Global Diversity staff at Cummins serves as a resource for  developing safe and inclusive work environments that foster innovation.
“At Cummins, we’ve been on a proactive diver-
sity journey, connecting who people are, how they think and how we can utilize their talents to achieve business success,” says Global Diversity Executive Director Lisa Gutierrez. 
Reaching out to employees
Much of the Company’s diversity initiatives over the 
past year have focused on the new Business Case for Diversity and communicating the importance of diversity to Cummins’ ﬁnancial future. The Company launched a multi-faceted implementation plan to connect employees with the goals and ﬁndings in the Business Case.
Glenn Guieb Peñaranda, a special trade representative from the Phillipine Consultate General in Chicago talks about 
business prospects in that region of the world at a program sponsored by the South East Asian Afﬁnity Group.90 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
The Business Case was translated into multiple  
languages and posted on a new internal Web site that includes case studies on how diversity is fueling innovation at Cummins, short videos from Company leaders on the importance of diversity and an audio recording of Cummins’ longtime Chairman and CEO  J. Irwin Miller, who advocated diversity long before  the formation of diversity organizations. 
The Global Diversity staff also produced a new 
22-minute video on the Business Case and the  importance of diversity to the Company’s future,  combining leader interviews with examples at Cummins where diversity is contributing  to innovation.
The video, for example, tells the story of two  
engineers at Cummins’ El Paso, Texas/Juarez, Mexico operations who developed a way to repair Electronic Control Modules designed to be disposable. They said growing up in Mexico and the southwestern United States in a culture that values ﬁxing things helped  convince them a way could be found to recondition  the modules.Employees were encouraged to discuss their own  experiences working with diverse teams after watching the video. Cummins operations from China to the United Kingdom and from the United States to Brazil reported watching the video and holding discussions on diversity.
Afﬁnity Groups and Local Diversity Councils
The Global Diversity staff works with a network of 
more than 30 Afﬁnity Groups and more than 50 Local Diversity Councils to help create safe and inclusive workplaces around the world. 
Afﬁnity Groups, typically organized around  
demographic traits, represent the viewpoint of  a particular group of employees to senior leaders.  The groups also work on the key issues of  recruiting, retention, career development and  business enhancement. 
Chairman and CEO Tim Solso speaks at a town hall forum 
sponsored by the Corporate & CBS Local Diversity Council  in Columbus, Ind. 91 Employee RelationsDiversity Councils are groups of employees who work 
with local leadership to develop an inclusive work  environment where all employees feel free to share their best work and ideas.
Over the past year, members of both groups also 
served as ambassadors for the Business Case,  promoting its goals and helping to make the link between diversity and innovation. 
The Company added two new Afﬁnity Groups in 2009 
and 2010 expected to help in the development of safe and inclusive workplaces. 
The Worldwide Veterans and Supporters Afﬁnity Group 
focuses on the needs of veterans in all parts of the world. The Special Needs and Abilities Afﬁnity Group, meanwhile, is focused on creating a welcoming  environment for people with special needs.Equal opportunity
The Global Diversity staff also plays a key role in 
Cummins’ goal to have representation comparable to the markets where we do business. The staff constantly reviews representation at the Company as part of Cummins’ compliance with the Department of Labor’s Federal Ofﬁce of Contract Compliance Program. 
While the Labor Department is concerned with  
U.S. employment, Cummins’ Corporate Compliance Manager Martha Heady Messman is also keeping  tabs on the Company’s global numbers. She is working on several initiatives to help develop  increasingly diverse pools of qualiﬁed job candidates. Cummins also continues to meet and deliver on  local country commitments to improve workplace  representation of under-represented groups. 
Cummins successfully closed several federal  
audits in 2009 with a notice of compliance – the best possible outcome. The audits included an extensive federal “glass ceiling” audit that found no evidence  of systemic barriers at the Company when it comes  to the advancement of women.
Cummins’ definition of diversity
Cummins updated Business Case for Diversity also refreshed the Company’s deﬁnition of diversity:
On a personal level: The diversity of an 
individual is deﬁned by his or her cultural and  personal differences, as well as life and professional experiences.At the organizational level: Diversity is created through the distinct personalities and capabilities of each individual within the group.
Taken together: The Diversity of individuals and 
organizations creates an environment where  innovation and ideas ﬂourish.Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010As a purchasing manager focused on Europe,  
the Middle East and Africa, Sara Vasey knows the  importance of diversity in the global marketplace.
As the leader of the Women’s Afﬁnity Group at Cummins’ 
facility in Darlington in the United Kingdom, Sara  demonstrates her commitment to helping Cummins create a workplace where diversity fuels innovation.
“Having the opportunity to work with so many people 
from different backgrounds and cultures has been one  of the most interesting and rewarding aspects of working for a global company like Cummins,” Sara says. “Being part of a Local Diversity Council or Afﬁnity Group enables you to feel like you are really making a difference.”Like many employees, Sara integrates her diversity work with her business responsibilities. Cummins depends on its employees to create a safe and  inclusive work environment through a network of  site-based Diversity Councils and Afﬁnity Groups  typically organized around a speciﬁc demographic.
Under Sara’s leadership, the Women’s Afﬁnity  
Group at Darlington, created in 2006, has worked successfully to improve the workplace for part-time employees, sponsored health awareness events,  raised awareness about domestic abuse and  implemented several career development initiatives such as mentoring circles and training on assertive  communication that have been attended by a  diverse audience of men and women. 
The Afﬁnity Group, along with plant management,  
was recognized in 2007 by the prestigious Institute  of Mechanical Engineers in the U.K. for its involvement in recruiting and developing women in engineering.
“Without a doubt being part of the diversity initiative at 
Cummins has enriched my career,” Sara says. “It has offered so much growth potential in terms of personal development and provided me with a unique set of skills relative to communication and people development.”
Cummins Darlington (U.K.) employee Sara Vasey. Putting diversity into action
CumCmins
Inc.
Sustainabilit y
 Report
 2010
The benefits of diversity 
tAttracting and retaining the best talent.
tCreating a safe and inclusive work environment that fosters innovation. tPromoting differing viewpoints to enhance problem solving and decision making.
tDeveloping a positive reputation in the  communities where Cummins does business.Cummins Business Case for Diversity was updated in December 2008, strengthening the link between  diversity and innovation. It includes a deﬁnition of diversity, goals to get the most out of diversity and  it lays out the beneﬁts of developing a diverse workforce. Those beneﬁts include: 93 Employee RelationsThe Global Diversity Department launched the 
Afﬁrmative Development Project in 2009 to help  Afﬁnity Group members and their managers align  with Cummins new Business Case for Diversity.The project was successfully launched in southern Indiana with the African & African American Afﬁnity Group and Grupo Organizado de Afﬁnidad de Latino (GOAL) – the Latino Afﬁnity Group of Southern Indiana. The Global Diversity staff is taking the project to India and China in 2010 to work with employees and managers there.
Afﬁnity Groups at Cummins are typically organized 
around a speciﬁc demographic such as African and African-American employees, Latino employees, or women. These groups are open to any employee whether they share the group’s demographic trait or not.
In the past, the groups focused on educating the  
rest of the Company on their particular organizing 
trait, and enhancing cultural understanding. The  Global Diversity Department in recent years has  been encouraging these groups to evolve, focus-ing increasingly on bottom-line issues like recruiting, retention and career development and business enhancement and the connection between these areas and manufacturing.
By working with nationally known diversity  
consultant Roland West, the ﬁrst two groups looked at their mission and vision and how they could best serve their members and the Company. They have designed their annual workplans with that focus in mind.
Both Chairman and CEO Tim Solso and President  
and COO Tom Linebarger participated in West’s  workshops with the Afﬁnity Groups, along with other senior leaders at Cummins.
The project also worked with the managers of  
Afﬁnity Group members. West led workshops designed to give them tools to manage people  different from themselves. The response from  participating managers was overwhelming. One described it as the best training he had attended  on the topic in more than 15 years with Cummins.
“I’m convinced being a great leader in the more 
complex future, will mean being great at managing people different from ourselves,” said Lisa Gutierrez, Cummins Executive Director of Global Diversity. “Whether that involves race, gender, and ethnicity,  or age, special needs, or education and technical expertise, managers have to provide employees  with the coaching they need to succeed.”Members of GOAL – the Latino Afﬁnity Group of Southern Indiana, 
participate in an Afﬁrmative Development Project workshop. 
President and COO Tom Linebarger participates in the project workshop with the African & African American Afﬁnity Group. Taking diversity to the next level94 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Cummins’ commitment to supplier diversity is strong 
in good times and bad. Despite the global economic slowdown, the Company in 2010 reafﬁrmed its goal  of reaching $1 billion in business with diverse suppliers by 2012 – a goal set before the recession started.
The Company reached $432 million in spending 
with diverse suppliers in 2009. Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Tim Solso, who has supplier diversity goals in his own workplan, says Cummins’ Diversity Procurement initiative is too important to retreat on now.
“To get to $1 billion in 2012 is going to require a different 
mindset,” Solso told Company leaders and purchasing staff earlier this year. He called for a collaborative effort to begin thinking about diverse supplier opportunities at the outset of planning for new initiatives.
While the $1 billion goal is daunting given the economy 
(the goal represents about 12 percent of Cummins’ projected spending in 2012), Gordon Fykes,  Cummins Director of Diversity Procurement, notes  that the Company increased its diverse spend from $150 million in 2004 to the $432 million recorded  in 2009.
“We have made tremendous progress in a short 
period of time,” Fykes said. “Working together, we  just have to climb up the mountain a little higher.”Cummins strategy
At Cummins, supplier diversity, also known as  
diversity procurement, is viewed as a logical extension of the Company’s workforce diversity initiatives and part of Cummins’ commitment to “serve and improve the communities in which we live.” 
By working with diverse suppliers, the Company is 
able to increase economic opportunity in all of the communities where our employees live and where  the Company does business.
But it’s also a fundamental business strategy. Just as 
workforce diversity has bottom line beneﬁts, Diversity Procurement helps increase the number of companies competing for Cummins’ business, which will ultimately result in lower prices and better service for the Company.
Cummins Diversity Procurement staff serves as  
a resource for Company leaders and purchasing  ofﬁcials who want to solicit bids from diverse suppliers for Cummins purchases. 
In addition, the staff works with diverse suppliers to 
help them develop into the kind of suppliers who can not only help Cummins with its purchasing needs, but partner with the Company to ﬁnd new and innovative ways to please Cummins’ customers.
There are no handouts or set asides in Cummins’ 
Diversity Procurement Program. Diverse suppliers must compete on price and quality. The Diversity Procurement staff’s top goal is to ensure diverse  suppliers — minority-owned, women-owned,  veteran-owned etc. — get an opportunity to  compete for the Company’s business.Company recommits to $1 billion goal
Highlights
 Cummins recommits to $1 billion goal  
for diverse spending in 2012.
 Diversity Procurement launches major effort to encourage Tier 1 suppliers to use diverse suppliers on sub contracts.
 Diverse Procurement staff publishes catalog of diverse suppliers.95 Employee Relations
Council plays key role
The Diversity Procurement staff works closely with 
the Diversity Procurement Council, a 12-member board with representatives from the Company’s Business Units – the Engine Business, Filtration, Emission Solutions, Power Generation, Turbo Technologies, Parts and Services and Distribution – as well as representatives from the Indirect Purchasing and Corporate Diversity Departments.
Council members serve as ambassadors for the 
Company’s supplier diversity initiative within their business units. In addition, the Council and Diversity Procurement staff co-sponsor a yearly summit that brings together suppliers, purchasing ofﬁcials and senior leaders to share best practices and discuss issues pertaining to supplier diversity.
To reach $1 billion, the Company is counting on 
council members to work with their purchasing associates to ensure diverse suppliers are getting an opportunity to bid on Company work.
In fact, Fykes regularly tells purchasing personnel  that if diverse suppliers aren’t competitive on price  and quality, they should not get Company business.
The road map to $1 billion
Fykes and his staff have developed several tools to 
help the Company reach the $1 billion goal:
Diverse Supplier Booklet: The “2009 Diverse 
Supplier Proﬁle Booklet” includes detailed descriptions of 35 women- and minority-owned businesses  recommended because they have offered top quality goods and services at competitive prices in their  work for Cummins. The booklet is designed to be  periodically updated and expanded.
The catalog is provided not only to Company  
purchasing leaders but also to Cummins non- diverse“Tier I” suppliers in the hope they will  use it to ﬁnd diverse suppliers to help them  fulﬁll Cummins’ contracts. “We hope everyone receiving the booklet will utilize  it to provide these top diverse suppliers with more inclusion in discussions and more exposure, resulting in future bid opportunities,” Fykes said.
Diversity Procurement Website:  
The Company recently updated its Diversity Procurement Website, providing one place where potential diverse suppliers can register their interest  in doing business with Cummins and learn about new  business opportunities with the Company, and where non-diverse Tier 1 Suppliers can input how much  of their contract with Cummins is going to diverse  suppliers and access a copy of Cummins Diverse Supplier Proﬁle Booklet.96 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
DP Times newsletter: The Diversity Procurement 
staff recently established a quarterly newsletter  distributed to Cummins leaders with up-to-date  information on the Company’s supplier diversity  initiatives, including charts showing each business unit’s progress toward meeting the Company’s  $1 billion goal. The guide also includes a commentary by Fykes on how Cummins is doing, as well as tips  for both diverse suppliers and purchasing ofﬁcials trying to ﬁnd them.“To reach $1 billion, we have to ﬁnd ways to keep people’s attention on our Diversity Procurement goal,” Fykes said. “In difﬁcult times, it’s easy to just go with a supplier you know. But by going the extra mile to seek out a bid from a diverse supplier, you are setting in motion something that will help our Company and  our communities for years and years to come.”
Challenges ahead: Diversity
Here are three areas related to the Company’s diversity initiative that Cummins will be working  to improve in 2010:
Taking Diversity Global: A major focus will 
continue to be taking the Company’s diversity value beyond the United States. That includes building the kind of employee networks necessary to work with leaders and managers on creating safe and inclusive workplaces. 
Supporting Local Diversity Councils: Cummins 
Local Diversity Councils help shape the diversity environment at their particular locations but many have not experienced the level of support they need to ﬂourish. The key is providing that support without undermining the local leadership which  is fundamental to a successful LDC . A global  Six Sigma project focused on improving LDC effectiveness and efﬁciency kicked off in  June 2010.
Chairman’s Diversity Council: Cummins in 
2010 is re-establishing the Chairman’s Diversity Council to be chaired by CEO Tim Solso and  COO Tom Linebarger. The council will work in  conjunction with the Operating Leadership Team to lead and champion diversity through the Diversity Business Case, the Leadership Culture Series and through the members’ current roles  as sponsors of Afﬁnity Groups and Local  Diversity Councils. 97 Employee RelationsA key component of Diversity Procurement’s road map 
to $1 billion is a requirement that Cummins’ largest non-diverse suppliers work with smaller diverse  suppliers to fulﬁll their contracts with the Company.
Cummins hopes to increase what is called Tier II 
diverse spend from about $50.7 million in 2009 to $291 million by 2012.
At this year’s supplier Diversity Procurement  
Summit, Ignacio Garcia, Vice President and  Chief Manufacturing and Procurement Ofﬁcer, and Gordon Fykes, the Company’s Director of Diversity Procurement, established a goal of 10 percent  diverse spend for non-diverse Tier I suppliers,  the Company’s largest suppliers.
“Many minority-owned and women-owned  
businesses are not large enough to take the lead on our largest contracts,” said Fykes. “But they can play an important secondary role and at the same time  learn a lot from our primary suppliers.”
“In time, our hope is that some of our minority-owned 
and women-owned businesses will grow into Tier I suppliers for Cummins,” he said.Dozens of Cummins suppliers are currently not reporting any spending with diverse suppliers to the Company — even though some have their own Diversity Procurement programs. 
Cummins has streamlined its Web site and reporting 
procedures in the hope that more suppliers will report. Better reporting would have resulted in another  $50 million in 2009 if those Companies were  reaching the 10 percent goal, Fykes believes.
Fykes said non-diverse Tier I suppliers can enjoy  
the same beneﬁts Cummins does in pursing supplier  diversity: stronger communities, which ultimately  translates into better markets for their products  and services.
In addition, helping smaller diverse suppliers grow  
and develop can create competition for the purchasing needs of large suppliers – resulting in lower prices and better service for them, as well.
“Diversity procurement isn’t something that only  
works for Cummins,” Fykes said. “It works for any company that makes a sustained effort at developing diverse suppliers.”Smaller diverse suppliers can play critical role
Cummins employees celebrate the Indiana Minority Supplier Development Council’s highest honor for a ﬁfth consecutive year.  
The Company was named the IMSDC’s 2009 Circle of Excellence Award winner at the council’s Supplier Diversity Conference  & Business Opportunity Fair in Indianapolis.98 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Cummins’ ability to attract and  
retain capable employees around  the world is critical to the Company’s  long-term success. 
Cummins currently has more than 35,000 employees 
working in 51 countries and expects to increase its workforce by as much as 30 percent over the next three years to meet strong forecasted growth across all its businesses. 
Much of that growth will occur outside the United 
States, where more than half the Company’s current employees are located. One of the Company’s  strategic goals is to create a workforce – and a  leadership team – that is a reﬂection of Cummins’ global scope.
Creating the right work environment for employees  
to succeed is one of the Company’s six strategic  principles. The effort to create a sustainable workforce begins as soon as an employee joins Cummins and continues throughout his or her career. Cummins invests signiﬁcantly in employee  development at all levels and across all parts of  the organization, and the Company has a number of initiatives aimed at improving the skills and increasing satisfaction among its workforce. 
Here is a look at some of the larger employee  
development efforts at Cummins today.
Starting on the right foot
Cummins has learned that the largest percentage of 
employee turnover occurs among workers who have been on the job for less than ﬁve years. Over the past three years the Company has begun to develop a consistent approach to educating new workers on Cummins’ business and values.
Called “OnBoarding,” the effort strengthens the ties 
our newest employees feel toward Cummins. The program will eventually include a structured program that stretches over the ﬁrst year of an individual’s career. Today, that effort focuses on the employee experience over the ﬁrst 90 days at Cummins, and begins as soon as an employee accepts a position with the Company.Creating a sustainable workforce
Highlights
 Right environment critical as Cummins  
prepares to grow.
 Company offers programs to help employees at all levels of their development.
 Cummins preparing for a new generation  of employees as more experienced workers reach retirement age. 
Cummins has a high-technology workforce with nearly  
6,000 engineers, about a sixth of its total employees, and  
another 1,000 staff members in technical or scientiﬁc roles. 99 Employee RelationsNewly hired salaried employees in the United States 
and China receive a standard weeklong orientation into the Company, followed by common work site activities throughout their ﬁrst 90 days on the job. The program includes an introduction to Cummins’ history, Vision, Mission and Values, training on the Company’s Code of Conduct and other employee policies, and a welcome from Cummins leaders, all designed to allow new employees to hit the ground running. 
Cummins plans to expand the OnBoarding program to 
its operations in India, Middle East and Mexico in 2010 and eventually implement the program globally.
Building a culture of leadership
A company is not truly sustainable without an  
effective process to identify and develop leaders. 
Ask Tim Solso to name his most important  
responsibility in his role as Cummins Chairman  and CEO and the answer you will get is “developing leaders across the Company.”
Cummins believes it’s especially important for a global 
company because of the complexities inherent in leading a corporation with employees in differentcountries, living in different time zones, with different customs, often speaking different languages.
The Leadership Culture Series was created in 2009  
to strengthen the Company’s commitment to providing the skills necessary to build successful leaders across Cummins. The program, designed for the Company’s top 300 leaders, focuses on ﬁve speciﬁc leadership skills considered to be critical to Cummins’ future success. They are:
tCoaching and development
tFostering open communications
tManaging Diversity 
tTalent management
tThinking strategically 
A top executive at Cummins takes ownership of  
each individual skill area, leading discussions and serving as both a role model and a champion for  that particular skill. Participants are expected to incorporate lessons from the sessions into their work plans and day-to-day interactions with staff members, colleagues, customers and  other stakeholders.
Cummins workforce
Here’s a quick look at Cummins’ workforce. 
High-tech: Cummins depends on 
an increasingly high-tech workforce.  
Of its nearly 36,000 employees: 
tAlmost 6,000 are engineers.
tApproximately 1,000 additional employees  
are working in technical/scientiﬁc roles.
tAbout another 800 employees work in Information Technology (IT) jobs.Location: About 60 percent of our employees 
are located outside the United States. 
Unions: About 38 percent of our employees are 
represented by various unions under collective  
bargaining agreements that expire between 2010 and 2014. 
Future: As economies recover from the global 
recession, Cummins expects its workforce to 
increase by as much as 30 percent over the  next three years. 100 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Coaching and development: A lifelong journey
At Cummins, coaching and development doesn’t  
stop when an individual reaches a senior leadership position in the Company. As part of our commitment to creating a sustainable organization, Cummins has, over the past four years, developed an executive leadership development program aimed at educating today’s top leaders – and those of tomorrow – about the breadth and depth of the Company’s business.
Now beginning its third cycle, the executive  
development program brings together small groups  of high potential senior leaders and mid-career  professionals for 24 months of extensive education about the Company’s operations. All those selected are viewed as having the potential to become a member of the senior leadership team at some point.Cummins top leaders, including the CEO and President, are heavily involved in the program, and program participants gain signiﬁcant insights to the issues and opportunities facing the Company through their interactions with these leaders and with one another. Members of the group have a hand in developing the program, and executive development groups have traveled globally to learn about various aspects of the Company’s business.
Creating a career vision for all employees
More than 60 percent of the Company’s workforce 
consists of employees working on the manufacturing plant ﬂoors, in our technical operations, at our service centers or in Cummins ofﬁces around the world. These employees (referred to as “hourly” or “non-exempt” in the U.S.) help design, machine, assemble, service and sell the Company’s products and are vital to Cummins’ long-term success. 
Challenges ahead: Workforce
As Cummins prepares for a period of growth after the global recession, there are several workforce related challenges facing the Company:
Culture: Cummins expects its workforce of more 
than 35,000 to grow by as much as 30 percent over the next few years to meet strong forecasted growth across all its businesses. One key factor will be having processes in place to preserve the aspects of Cummins culture that make the Company great. Leadership: Chairman and CEO Tim Solso has said he wants the Company’s top leadership to “look like the United Nations,” consistent with a Company where more than 60 percent of its sales occur outside the United States. Finding ways to develop leaders globally will be critical.
Retirements: A signiﬁcant portion of both the 
hourly and professional workforce are expected  to retire in the coming years. Recruiting and  retaining the next generation of workers, in what  is expected to be a highly competitive environment once the economy improves, will play a pivotal role in the Company’s long-term performance.101 Employee RelationsAnd, as Cummins prepares for a period of growth 
over the next several years, the ranks of these employees is expected to grow signiﬁcantly around the world. At the same time, the demographics of this part of our work force suggest that a large number of our most experienced workers are likely  to be retiring over that same period. 
Finding and retaining skilled workers capable of  
handling the increasingly technical work being done  at many Cummins facilities has become a challenge  and, in some cases, a signiﬁcant obstacle to growth. In order to maintain a world-class workforce at all levels, Cummins is in the midst of its most ambitious effort yet to increase the long-term capabilities of our these workers around the world and improve  the opportunities afforded these employees.
Historically, the Company has lacked a uniﬁed 
approach to attracting, developing and retaining its shop, engineering technician, service technician and ofﬁce workforce. A cross-functional global team led  by Human Resources is out to change that.
The Company’s Workforce Strategy Group has been 
collaborating with Cummins leaders from around the world for the past 18 months to deﬁne and articulate the Company’s “work force philosophy” and align the core strategies and processes needed to provide improved career opportunities to our employees and assure the success of the organization over the next 20 years.
As the Company’s products become more complex,  
the skills necessary to manufacture, sell and support those products must become more sophisticated.  A primary focus of the Workforce Strategy Group is to deﬁne the road map that will assure we can effectively develop and manage increasingly skilled workers who can meet the Company’s changing needs around  the world.
By establishing effective processes to select, manage, 
develop and advance workers who are capable of meeting the Company’s increased needs, Cummins can create a lasting competitive advantage.
To do that, our work environments must be inclusive 
and the Company must be committed to providing challenging work and the appropriate rewards to  its hourly workforce so that it can create a culture where career-long learning and development is the expectation, not the exception.
President and COO Tom Linebarger speaks at a career development forum sponsored by GOAL —   
the Latino Afﬁnity Group of Southern Indiana. 102 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
Editor’s note: Cummins is engaged in a number 
of signiﬁcant partnerships on the key topics  of education, the environment and social  responsibility/improving the human condition. Here’s a look at one:
Fourteen years ago, Cummins stepped in  
to help a neighbor in Memphis, Tenn. That  neighbor happened to be a university in need  of a computer lab. 
In 1996, The Cummins Foundation donated 
$100,000 to build the lab at LeMoyne-Owen College – but the donations didn’t stop with money. Employees stepped in to set up the  computers and train students and faculty on  how to use the software. 
Cummins, which has a distribution center and a 
manufacturing plant in Memphis, and the college have been partners ever since.
LeMoyne-Owen is one of the United States’ 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities.  It was founded in 1862 as LeMoyne College and became a four-year college in 1934. It merged with Owen Junior College in 1968, becoming LeMoyne-Owen College.
Located less than three miles from downtown 
Memphis, the college currently has 854 students,  a number the school hopes to see increase with the help of Cummins. When LeMoyne-Owen was threatened with  losing its accreditation in 2006 because of a  lack of funds, The Cummins Foundation  donated $600,000 over three years and worked with LeMoyne-Owen employees on a Six Sigma  project on recruitment. 
Enrollment went up 23 percent, according to 
LeMoyne President Johnnie B. Watson, who  says the school will close the upcoming ﬁscal  year $1 million in the black. Now, LeMoyne-Owen is looking at how it can improve in the future,  with Cummins’ help on a new strategic plan. 
“We have representatives from Cummins to help 
us develop the plan, speciﬁcally [in] the Ofﬁce of Institutional Advancement,” Watson said. 
“That ofﬁce does marketing for the college and 
raises money for the college. All indications are this year will surpass last year, and things are getting better.”
A Six Sigma project has also been launched with 
Cummins employees and LeMoyne-Owen staff. This project will focus on student retention. 
Cummins’ Community Involvement Team in 
Memphis also hosts the Hank Aaron Celebrity Sports Weekend, a fundraiser that brought in $75,000 for LeMoyne-Owen last year –  including a $25,000 contribution from  Cummins’ Memphis operations. Signiﬁcant partnerships 
Neighborly  
behavior helps college in Memphis
The LeMoyne-Owen College
Memphis, TennesseeThe investment is paying off. Because of its improved 
ﬁnancial condition, LeMoyne was able to offer a supply chain management program to its curriculum. Cummins employees have taken advantage of that opportunity and enrolled in the program. 
Cummins, which has three employees who have 
graduated cum laude from LeMoyne, provided the college with another resource in 2006 – Allen Pierce.Pierce, General Manager for New and Recon Parts Manufacturing in Memphis, is today a member of the Board of Trustees at LeMoyne. He said he feels a very personal connection to the college.
“I am also a graduate of an HBCU (a Historically 
Black College or University),” Pierce said, “and I understand the important role that LeMoyne-Owen College plays in the Memphis community.”
LeMoyne-Owen College
Location: Memphis, Tenn.Mission: Providing higher education as one of the 
U.S.’s Historically Black Colleges and Universities.
History: Founded in 1862; merged with Owen 
Junior College in 1968.
Special features: Cummins became involved in 1996 
by donating a computer lab, software and training.Cummins involvement: Over 14 years, The Cummins Foundation has donated more than $700,000 and employees have volunteered hundreds of hours in fundraising and general expertise.
LeMoyne-Owen College hopes to offer more students the opportunity for a college education now that it’s on ﬁrmer ﬁnancial  
ground thanks in part to help from Cummins. 104 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010Financial performance:  
Cummins remains strong in 2009 despite global recession
Like many other companies, Cummins’ sales and 
proﬁtability in 2009 were affected by the global down-turn that began in late 2008. But thanks to aggressive action to reduce costs, the Company earned a solid proﬁt and is poised for growth in 2010.
Cummins’ sales were $10.8 billion in 2009, down  
24 percent from $14.3 billion in 2008. Net income was $428 million, down 45 percent from $755 million in 2008.
Despite the decline in sales, Cummins managed to 
make a solid proﬁt, which allowed the Company to continue investing in technologies and projects critical to the Company’s sustainability.
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT), excluding 
restructuring and other charges, was $774 million,  or 7.2 percent of sales – the fourth best EBIT as a  percentage of sales in the last 25 years.  Cummins ﬁnancial performance improved every quarter during 2009. EBIT, before restructuring and other charges, grew from a recent low of 2.8 percent of sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 to 11.4 percent of sales in the ﬁnal three months of 2009. 
All four of the Company’s operating segments  
were proﬁtable in 2009, and Cummins increased  its share in most markets around the world last year. The Company focused on four key priorities in 2009 with a goal of emerging from the recession an  even stronger company, well positioned to take  advantage of the economic recovery. Those priorities, which remain in effect in 2010, are:
tContinuing to invest strategically in new products 
and technologies that will create long-term  growth opportunities.
tGenerating positive cash ﬂow.
tMaintaining a realistic estimate of demand and then aligning our cost structure and manufacturing capacity to that demand.
tDelivering the best possible customer support,  especially when our customers may need it the most.  Highlights
 Cummins turns proﬁt in 2009 despite  
global recession.
 Aggressive actions result in signiﬁcant savings and efﬁciencies.
 Better times predicted for 2010 and beyond as key trends favor Cummins.105 FinancialDecisive action 
The severity of the global recession and the speed 
at which it spread caused Cummins to take decisive action in 2009 to meet its ﬁnancial commitments.  The Company reduced its global workforce by  15 percent from late 2008 through the middle of last year, froze merit pay, instituted salary cuts for ofﬁcers and directors and reduced expenses in every category across every part of the Company. 
These actions, while painful in many respects,  
reduced the Company’s costs in line with demand and contributed signiﬁcantly to proﬁtability in 2009. Cummins also lowered our inventory level by more than $400 million last year, which improved our cash position by more than $500 million over the course  of 2009. The Company ended the year with just over $1 billion in cash and marketable securities. Despite the recession, Cummins continued to invest signiﬁcantly in the business with capital expenditures of $310 million in 2009. Most of the investments were for critical technologies and programs designed to help the Company meet new emissions standards and to enter new product markets in emerging regions.
The Company continued to return signiﬁcant value to  
its shareholders in 2009: Cummins’ stock appreciated 75 percent in 2009 and the Company ranked in the top 25 among the Fortune 500 companies for total return  to shareholders for the ﬁve-year period of 2005–2009.
Cummins manufacturing operations faced extreme 
volatility in demand over the past year. In the ﬁrst half of 2009, demand was very weak. It then surged to near-record levels in the United States during  the fourth quarter as customers ordered engines  in advance of federal emissions regulation changes, which took effect Jan. 1, 2010.
Pat Ward, Vice President – Chief Financial Ofﬁcer at Cummins, meets with Richard Harris, Vice President – Chief Investment Ofﬁcer  
and Dean Cantrell, Director – Investor Relations. 106 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
That increase in demand led to an expected  
corresponding drop in volumes in the ﬁrst quarter of 2010.  Medium- and heavy-duty North American engine shipments in the ﬁrst quarter of this year were  90 percent lower than the fourth quarter of last year.
That volatility was very disruptive to the Company’s 
operations, but employee efforts to manage capacity and improve productivity allowed Cummins to  proﬁtably navigate this challenging period. 
Looking ahead
The Company reported strong ﬁnancial results for  
the ﬁrst quarter of 2010 thanks in large part to our leadership position in China, India and Brazil.
International sales accounted for 64 percent of the 
Company’s consolidated revenues in the ﬁrst quarter and our consolidated international sales rose  27 percent from the ﬁrst quarter of 2009.As the U.S. and European markets recover, 2010 is expected to be a much better year for Cummins. Sales are expected to reach $12 billion by the end  of 2010, an 11 percent increase from 2009, with  EBIT, excluding restructuring and other charges,  of 10 percent of sales. 
The Company also expects to invest $400 million in 
capital projects in 2010, mostly to support initiatives related to new products and capacity expansion.
In March 2010, Cummins publicly shared its ﬁve-year 
outlook. The Company expects average annual sales growth of 13 percent a year from 2010-2014, about twice the annual growth rate over the last 30 years. Over that period, the Company expects to earn an average EBIT of 10 percent of sales.Cummins’ work to remain strong during the  global recession, along with a number of long- term industry and market trends working in its favor, has positioned the Company for a period  of sustained proﬁtable growth in the future.  Here are those key trends:
Tougher emissions standards:  Tougher emission 
standards are being implemented around the world, which plays to the Company’s strength as the global leader in emissions technology research and design. 
The globalization of business: Cummins has a 
leadership position in large international markets such as China, India and Brazil and a strong global distribution network that gives the Company access to growing markets around the world. The price and availability of energy:  
Fuel prices are expected to continue to increase, which should boost demand for Cummins’ fuel-efﬁcient diesel engines. In addition, the demand for electricity is expected to outpace supply worldwide over the next several years, creating opportunities for the Company’s power  generation business. 
Infrastructure growth around the world:  
A signiﬁcant increase in infrastructure spending worldwide over the next two decades,  especially in large emerging markets, should increase demand for Cummins’ products that serve industrial and power generation markets.Four key trends for future growth107 FinancialSix Sigma delivers  
for Cummins
Ten years of Six Sigma at Cummins have delivered 
$3 billion in savings by helping the Company reduce waste and variation. 
But what is even more important is how Six Sigma  
has helped change Cummins culture: 
tGot a tough problem to solve? Try Six Sigma. 
tDeveloping a new technology? Apply Six Sigma. 
tTrying to ﬁgure out what solution might work best for 
a customer? Use Six Sigma tools and in the process, build a closer relationship with the customer. 
Six Sigma is a business improvement tool that uses data to identify defects and variation. It is used in every part of Cummins everywhere in the world, creating a common language to solve problems and develop new products and processes. 
Cummins also uses Six Sigma on its sustainability 
work – developing the technology to make engines cleaner and more fuel efﬁcient while creating a greener work environment everywhere it does business.
That effort is part of Cummins’ Six Sigma Star Point 
program, which focuses the talents and energies of its most skilled and experienced Six Sigma professionals on issues that cross all business units in all parts of  the global company.
Leading the Star Point program on sustainability are 
two Cummins master black belts: Eddie Beal and Karen Cecil. They are pooling the resources of Six Sigma belts across Cummins to identify new projects or best practices from existing projects and programs to help Cummins meet its sustainability goals. 
“This grew out of our ongoing effort to make the  
environmental issues visible up front in the product design process,” Beal said. “And a large part of this is strategy. What will enable us to be successful in reducing our carbon footprint and be proﬁtable  as a company.”
After identifying completed or new projects that focus 
on sustainability, the belts will work to identify what principles or process can be applied to other areas  of Cummins, Beal explained.
One example: Jason Jones, a master black belt with 
Cummins Power Generation in Kent, United Kingdom, did a logistics project in his region to identify how often trucks were only partially loaded as they made their deliveries. By coordinating with other plants Jones and his team were able to combine freight pickups resulting in fewer trucks on the road, saving fuel and reducing emissions. It is the kind of project that could serve as a template for similar projects in other parts of Cummins’ business, Beal said.
The sustainability work is just one example of how Six 
Sigma continues to transform the Cummins culture. Other Star Point programs are focusing on customers, manufacturing improvements and the supply chain.
George Strodtbeck, Executive Director of Quality  
and the Cummins Operating System, says that before Six Sigma, proﬁts did not always directly track with increases in sales and when a recession hit, the Company usually lost money.
The discipline and the data-driven approach to  
decision making that Six Sigma brought has prepared the Company to respond quickly when the market
Students at the capstone training exercise must use Six Sigma 
techniques to hit targets with a balsa wood airplane.108 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
changes. So in 2009, after the downturn hit,  
Cummins could adjust, making a proﬁt while  investing in key projects and technologies.
Ten years of improving quality and processes 
 paid off. “Waste and variation just cost you money,” Strodtbeck said. 
The beneﬁts of Six Sigma can be seen in the  
39 projects recognized this year with the Chairman’s Six Sigma Quality Award. These projects represent the best of the nearly 4,000 projects completed in 2009. The winning projects, considered the best of the best, are responsible for savings of $67 million to Cummins and $8.6 million to customers last year.
Strodtbeck notes that while other companies can sell 
their customers an engine or other products, Cummins can deliver a full range of services and support that includes working with them to lower their costs.
As Cummins enters its second decade of Six Sigma, 
the tools remain a vital part of how the Company does business. In fact, employees in upper management must be Green Belt certiﬁed in order to advance or make a lateral move within the Company.
More about Six Sigma The use of the term Six Sigma refers to a  
measurement in which 99.99966 percent of  manufactured products are free of defects.
By the numbers
18,000
Green and black belt projects completed since 2000
4,000 
Projects completed in 2009
$3 billion
Total savings to Cummins since 2000
$750 million
Total savings to Cummins customers since 2000
11,000
People trained in using Six Sigma tools at CumminsChallenges ahead: Financial performance 
Despite the Company’s relatively strong performance during the recession, Cummins faces some  
signiﬁcant challenges in 2010. Among them:
Continued economic weakness in the United States 
and Western Europe: These large, mature markets have not rebounded from the downturn as quickly as developing economies such as India, China and Brazil. Cummins expects our business in the U.S. and Western Europe to grow more modestly than in other areas in 2010, although the second half of the year is expected to be better than the ﬁrst half.
Continued investment in critical technologies: 
Cummins needs to continue to manage its busi-ness conservatively in order to earn a solid proﬁt and generate the cash necessary to fund increased investment in key technologies and products. The Company plans to increase its capital spending by 30 percent from 2009, with much of the investment going to fund new  products and capacity expansion.
Planning for the recovery: Even as Cummins 
continues to work through the global economic downturn, the Company needs to increase its focus on taking advantage of the signiﬁcant long-term opportunities we see for the business beginning in 2011. 109 Financial
Cummins has added a new strategic principle –  
Lead in Critical Technologies – to the ﬁve  long-standing principles used to guide the  Company’s growth.
While Cummins has been a high technology company  
for many years, the new principle, adopted earlier this year, will re-enforce the importance of being ﬁrst to market with the best technology.
“Cummins is absolutely committed to technological  
innovation,” said John Wall, the Company’s Chief Technology Of ﬁcer. “We have been a leader  
throughout time and intend to continue to be a  leader in technology.” 
Cummins has developed key technologies and  
subsystems critical to emissions performance and  fuel efﬁciency, two key factors in the design and  manufacture of the Company’s products. 
With a global footprint extending into 190 countries, 
Cummins has a broad understanding of the upcoming technology demanded by industry. That knowledge provides the Company with a competitive advantage. 
In the next three to ﬁve years, nearly every major 
economy in the world will have to comply with regulations governing emissions and fuel economy. Cummins’ customers will be looking to the Company for help meeting those regulations through products such as our engines and components.
By leading the way in critical technologies, Cummins 
can be an effective partner with our customers while maintaining an advantage with our competitors.Our new strategic principle
Cummins Strategic Principles
tLeverage Complementary Businesses: Cummins is a family of complementary  businesses that create value for our customers.
tIncrease Shareholder Value: Cummins’ success is measured by growth in shareholder value.
tBe the Low Cost Producer: Cummins will pursue an operational strategy of cost leadership.
tLead in Critical Technologies: Cummins will be the market leaders in technologies critical to our customers’ success.tSeek Proﬁtable Growth: Cummins will seek proﬁtable growth by leveraging our  assets and capabilities to grow where  Cummins can establish an advantage.
tCreate the Right Work Environment:  
Cummins will assure that the physical and  cultural work environment is conducive to  excellent performance.110 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
Engines
Sales: $6.6 billion
EBIT margin: 3.9 percent
Mid-Range Engines: Diesel engines for on-highway 
applications from 120-145 horsepower. Natural gas- and LPG-fueled version from our Cummins Westport joint venture. Mid-range engines for off-highway of 31-365 horsepower.
Heavy-Duty Engines: Diesel engines for on-
highway applications from 280-600 horsepower and off-highway applications from 290-630 horsepower.
High-Horsepower Engines: Diesel and natural 
gas engines from 380-3,500 horsepower.
Aftermarket support: New and reconditioned 
parts distribution and service support for customer, distributors and dealers worldwide.
Customers and markets
tLight-duty automotive, RV, medium-duty truck, 
specialty vehicle, bus, heavy-duty truck, agriculture, construction, mining, marine, rail, defense, logging, power generation, oil and gas markets
tOriginal Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs)  who install Cummins engines in their vehicles  and equipment
tGlobal dealer and distributor networkPower Generation
Sales: $2.4 billion
EBIT margin: 6.9 percent
Commercial Power Systems: Generator sets, 
control systems and power electronics for a wide range of power requirements primarily powered by diesel and natural gas engines. Turn-key systems, combined heat and power installations, rental power, and plant operation and maintenance services.
Consumer systems: High performance diesel, 
LPG, natural gas and gasoline fueled generator sets with associated control systems from 2 to 99 KW for use as auxiliary power in a range of consumer, mobile, and specialty equipment.
Alternators: Newage Stamford, AVK, and Markon 
synchronous AC alternators from 0.6 to 30,000 KVA. Variable speed alternators, converters and  
control systems.
Engines: Cummins diesel engines engineered 
for use in generator sets.
Customers and markets
tCustomers needing standby power, distributed 
power or auxiliary power
tPublic and investor-owned utilities,  telecommunication providers, manufacturing and industrial facilities, mining and petrochemical sites, healthcare, retail and ﬁnancial and petrochemical sites, healthcare, retail and ﬁnancial facilities, water treatment plants and residential homes
tRV specialty vehicle and marine pleasure craft OEMs
tGenerator set assemblersOperating segments111 Financial
Components
Sales: $2.4 billion
EBIT margin: 4 percent
Filtration: Air, fuel, hydraulic, coolant and lube 
ﬁltration, crankcase ventilation, chemical and exhaust system technology products for all engine  
powered systems.
Aftertreatment: Catalytic exhaust systems and related 
products, including packaging of catalytic exhaust systems, engineered after treatment components and system integration services for engine manufacturers.
Turbochargers: Holset turbochargers and related 
products, including variable geometry and wastegate turbochargers, high pressure ratio and multi-stage solutions, for engines ranging from 3 to 25 liters.
Fuel Systems: Diesel fuel pumps, injectors and 
components, high pressure common rail fuel systems for diesel engines, controls for diesel fuel systems. Reconditioned diesel pumps, injectors and electronic control modules.
Customers and markets
tOEMs who manufacture vehicles and equipment  
for all fuel powered systems
tOEMs and Aftermarket distributors, dealers and  end users who serve all engine powered systems
tLight-duty automotive, RV, medium-duty truck, bus, heavy-duty truck, agriculture, construction, mining, marine, small engines, rail, oil and gas and  stationary industrial marketsDistribution
Sales: $1.8 billion
EBIT margin: 13.2 percent
Engines and Power Generation: Wholesale and 
retail distribution of Cummins engines, generator sets and related components. Application Engineering and assembly of Cummins products into packages per customer needs for marine and RV applications, small original equipment manufacturers and standby and prime Power Generation Systems.
Geographic breadth: The segment consists of 
18 Company-owned and 18 joint venture distributors operating in more than 70 countries and territories.
Service and parts: Sales and distribution of parts, 
components and related consumables. Repairs,  overhaul, maintenance of all Cummins products. Develop and support a servicing dealer network to meet customers’ needs in their local market place.
Solutions: Comprehensive business solutions 
using Cummins powered equipment, including rental,  operation and maintenance, cost per-hour contracts.
Customers and markets
tCustomers who use Cummins-powered equipment 
in their business endeavors
tDealers
tLocal and regional OEMs producing lower volumes112 Cummins Inc. Sustainability Report  2010
Cummins’ sustainability reporting doesn’t end with this document.  
 
Go to our Web site – www.cummins.com – for regular updates to see  
how we’re working to meet the needs of all of our stakeholders  
and practice good corporate citizenship.Cover: Printed on an acid-free blend of 10% banana stalk fibers 
(a by-product of the banana industry) and 90% post-consumer paper at EARTH University, Costa Rica.
Cover printed on  
90% post-consumer  
recycled paper
Interior printed on  100% post-consumer  recycled paperProduction Notes 
Design and writing: Cummins Corporate Communications 
Printing: The Merrick Printing Company 
Resource Usage
The savings below are achieved when post-
consumer recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber to create 312 pounds of paper.
3 trees preserved for the future
8 pounds of water-borne waste not created
1,145  gallons of wastewater flow saved
127 pounds of solid waste not generated
249 pounds of net greenhouse gases prevented
1,909,440  BTUs of energy not consumed
The savings below are achieved when post-
consumer recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber to create 2,940 pounds of paper.
28 trees preserved for the future
81 pounds of water-borne waste not created
11,989  gallons of wastewater flow saved
1,327  pounds of solid waste not generated
2,612  pounds of net greenhouse gases prevented
19,992,000  BTUs of energy not consumed
Additional savings since paper is manufactured 
with wind power and carbon offsets.
1,326  pounds of GHG emissions not generated
1.4 barrels of fuel oil unused
Equivalent of not driving 1,312 miles
Equivalent of planting 90 treesInterior: Printed on 100% recycled post-consumer paper 
manufactured with electricity that is made with 100% Certified Renewable Energy, from non-polluting wind power projects.  The 100% post-consumer waste fiber used to make this paper is process-chlorine free and is Green-seal certified. On the cover 
Students get hands-on experience when they learn 
about sustainable agriculture at EARTH University in Costa Rica. These students are weighing beans to determine who had the biggest yield. Students come from all over the world to the university, which is supported by Cummins both financially and in employees’ time and expertise.
302557_Cummins_IFC.indd   1 7/6/10   11:42:48 AMMeeting the Challenges 
of Global Sustainability
Cummins Inc.        Sustainability Report   2009  – 2010
Cummins  Inc.
Box 3005
Columbus,  IN 47202-3005
U.S.A.
cummins.com
©2010  Cummins  Inc.
Bulletin  Number  4986092
Cummins supports EARTH University’s  
mission to promote sustainable agriculture
302557_Cummins_TEST.indd  1 6/8/10  4:08 PM