Cummins . Innovation. Community. 
Integrity. Sustainability . Diversity.  
Social Responsibility. Vision. Safety.  
Ethics. Global Results. Report 2006.   Environment and Safety
Environment and Safety     I know what my company stands for. I am 
ready to carry out its mission of returning 
value to our customers, shareholders and 
communities—and to be a good steward  
of the environment along the way. I bring my 
own unique perspective to work every day, 
as do thousands of my colleagues around 
the world. Together we create a rich diversity 
of cultures and views. I understand my 
company’s vision includes all the communities 
we serve around the globe, not just my own.  
And I believe my success will contribute to the 
success of everyone we serve, everywhere. 
I am Cummins. You can depend on me.I am Cummins.About this Report
The information in this report is presented in the
spirit of the guidelines set by the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI). The aim of the GRI is to develop a
consistent way for companies around the world to
voluntarily report on the economic, environmental
and social components of their business.
Started in 1997 by the Coalition for Environmentally
Responsible Economies (CERES), the GRI became
independent in 00 and works in collaboration
with the United Nations Environment Program
(UNEP) and the UN Secretary-General’s  
Global Compact.
We are proud of the positive impact Cummins
products and the people who manufacture them
have had on our society. We look forward to the
opportunity to make a difference, not just today,
but for future generations as well.Contacts
Marya M. Rose, Vice President, General Counsel
One American Square, Suite 1800
Indianapolis, IN 468
Christine M. Vujovich, Vice President,
Marketing and Environmental Policy
500 Jackson Street
Columbus, IN 4701
Mark D. Land, Director of Public Relations
One American Square, Suite 1800
Indianapolis, IN 468
Telephone: 17-610-456
Mark.D.Land@cummins.com
Letter from the Chairman
Our Profile
Social and Corporate Responsibility
Environment and Safety
The Cummins Foundation ReportTable of Contents
 
 Vision and Strategy
5 Profile
8 Commitment to Stakeholders
16 Economic Performance
       
       
0 Corporate Governance
8 Social Performance
4 Diversity
8 Developing a Comprehensive
 Climate Change Policy
40 Performance Indicators:  Products
57 Managing Carbon Intensity
6 Performance Indicators:  Facilities
8 Safety
886   Environment and SafetyPerhaps more importantly, however, we have been 
able to achieve these results while remaining true 
to our core values of ethical business behavior and 
corporate social responsibility. We pride ourselves 
on operating under a set of values that emphasizes 
integrity, innovation, delivering superior results, 
corporate responsibility, diversity and global 
involvement.
Many of the tenets central to our vision, mission 
and core values are highlighted in this, our fourth 
annual Sustainability Report. Among them: Our 
commitment to social responsibility; our strong 
belief in the value of diversity; and our efforts to 
ensure that everything we do leads to a cleaner, 
safer, and healthier environment.
We were proud to be included in the Dow Jones 
World Sustainability Index for 006, for the second 
straight year. Likewise, we were named to the top 
Corporate Citizens list by Business Ethics magazine 
in 006 for the seventh consecutive year.As I write this, Cummins is completing its third 
consecutive year of record financial performance. 
The Company has rebounded from a deep 
recession in the early part of the decade and, 
through the hard work of more than 0,000 
employees worldwide, today is stronger than  
ever and poised for a bright future.
We have worked extremely hard to transform 
Cummins into a diversified, global leader in all  
the markets we serve. We have gained share in key 
businesses around the world. We have launched 
successful new products and announced plans 
to enter exciting new markets in the near future. 
We are investing wisely in new technologies and 
products, consistent with our strategic goal to  
grow our business in related markets.
Just this year, we have delivered additional value for 
our shareholders by significantly reducing our debt, 
increasing the dividend and repurchasing shares of 
our stock – while continuing to support current and 
past employees through increased pension funding.
Letter from the Chairman
        $0M $100M $00M $00M $400M $500M $600M $700M $800M      JV Ea rningsOperating Cash FlowNet Incom e
$550M
$760M
$11M$1M
$07M
$-7MEnvironment and Safety   7  We also have had a number of other notable 
achievements since our last report, many of  
which we have highlighted in the pages that  
follow, including:
Development of a greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction target
Inclusion in the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s (EPA) “Climate Leaders” program
Development and global implementation of  
a Supplier Code of Conduct
Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project, 
an institutional investor consortium that seeks 
to encourage greater environmental reporting 
among companies
Creation of a corporate-wide Customer Support 
Excellence initiative to implement a systemic 
framework for building a world-class customer 
care ethic at Cummins
Launch of a global effort to establish a common 
brand across all of Cummins that stands for 
‘dependability’ in every respect
Helping to strengthen the educational and 
employment foundation in central and southern 
Indiana by linking the site selection for a new •
•
•
•
•
•
•plant to a public-private agreement that will 
provide enhanced educational opportunities  
for an underserved community
Helping to improve the capabilities of the Purdue 
University engineering program through a 
commitment to fund capital improvements as well 
as an endowed professorship in the mechanical 
engineering school  
The concept of sustainability is important to 
Cummins and the employees who work hard 
every day to deliver on our vision and mission. We 
welcome this opportunity to provide insight into 
many aspects of Cummins and its operations in this 
Sustainability Report.
Tim Solso
Chairman, CEO -- Cummins Inc.
December 006 •A New Cummins
        $0M $100M $00M $00M $400M $500M $600M $700M $800M      JV Ea rningsOperating Cash FlowNet Incom e
$550M
$760M
$11M$1M
$07M
$-7M1999
005Our Profile
Vision and Strategy
Our Vision 
Making people’s lives better by unleashing the 
power of Cummins.
That simple statement is the framework for Cummins 
Inc. and its employees worldwide.  The Company 
takes pride in manufacturing high quality products 
that serve the needs of our customers. But the 
power of our Company is not just our products,  
but the ideas, energy and passion of our employees.  
That passion fuels their energy and commitment, 
making it possible for Cummins to maintain a 
leadership position in the markets it serves.
Cummins also recognizes that with its role as 
a corporate leader comes the responsibility to 
make positive contributions in the communities 
in which employees work and live. Accordingly, 
Cummins’ corporate mission and values reflect its 
desire to return value to its customers, employees, 
shareholders and communities:Mission
To motivate people to act like owners  
working together
To exceed customers’ expectations by always 
being first to market with the best products
To partner with our customers to ensure  
their success
To demand that everything we do leads to  
a cleaner, healthier, safer environment
To create wealth for all our stakeholders
Values
Integrity
We strive to do what is right and what we say  
we will do.
Innovation
We will apply the creative ingenuity necessary to 
make us better, faster, first.
Delivering Superior Results
Our goal is to consistently exceed expectations.•
•
•
•
•
   Our ProfileCorporate Responsibility
We will serve and improve the communities in  
which we live.
Diversity
We embrace the diverse perspectives of all people 
and honor them with both dignity and respect.
Global involvement
We seek a world view and to act without boundaries.
Strategic Principles
Cummins has five key elements to its business 
strategy. This strategy has not changed in recent 
years – what has changed is our improved 
performance and our continued ability to deliver on 
commitments.
Being a low cost producer in as many of 
the Company’s markets as possible.
Cummins realizes that in order to successfully 
compete in the marketplace, it must offer the best 
products at the best prices.  To do that, we leverage our innovative technology, economies of scale, 
global presence and customer partnerships. 
The Six Sigma quality program, launched in January 
000, is an integral part of that strategy. Since the 
program’s inception, Cummins has completed more 
than 5,800 Six Sigma projects and 4,000 “belts” 
have been trained in Six Sigma tools. 
The Company estimates this program generates 
savings of approximately  percent of annual 
revenue per year, while infusing quality into every 
process. Cummins also has expanded the program 
to include processes with customers, suppliers, 
distributors and corporate social responsibility with 
positive results.
Cummins pursues cost leadership in other ways: 
through global sourcing, global research and 
development access, sharing development costs 
with OEM partners and technical productivity,  
including the use of computer design and modeling 
in lieu of building expensive physical prototypes.Our goal is to consistently exceed expectations.
   Our Profile     We have reshaped the Company into what we are calling a  
“New Cummins”
Expanding into related markets
The Company will continue to focus its growth 
initiatives on related businesses where it can use 
its existing investments in products or technology, 
leading brand names or market presence to 
establish a competitive advantage.  That focus 
is particularly on ventures that complement its 
capital-intensive and cyclical core businesses, for 
example, the production of light-duty diesel engines 
in an existing Cummins facility that will introduce 
Cummins to a new consumer customer base.
Creating greater shareholder value
Return on capital, specifically return on average net 
assets (ROANA) and return on equity (ROE) are our 
primary measures of financial performance.  Each 
of our business segments uses ROANA targets 
and the Company, as a whole, has an ROE target.  
Cummins has dramatically improved its return on 
capital in recent years; for example, since 1999  
(the last peak in the heavy-duty truck cycle),  
ROE has increased from 10 percent to 6  
percent in 005.Leveraging complementary businesses
Increasingly, Cummins looks for ways to leverage 
the synergies among its four business segments. 
These synergies capitalize on shared capabilities 
including technology, distribution systems, common 
customers (cross selling), joint venture partners for 
global growth and cost reduction through the larger 
scale of shared services. 
Creating the right environment  
for success
At Cummins, creating the right environment for 
success means creating an inclusive learning 
environment, while reinforcing a performance ethic 
that attracts, develops and retains high-quality 
talent.  We measure our success through strategic 
skill and competency mapping, leadership 
development outcomes and participation in tailored 
individual development and training programs.
4   Our ProfileProfile
Cummins roots are planted in soil nourished by 
innovation, persistence and a commitment to 
community. Founded in Columbus, Ind., in 1919 as 
the Cummins Engine Company, for its namesake 
Clessie Lyle Cummins, the fledgling firm was 
among the first to see the commercial potential 
of an unproven engine technology invented two 
decades earlier by Rudolph Diesel.  The Company 
has grown to be a global power leader with nearly 
$10 billion in annual sales in 005 and moving 
toward $11 billion in 006. Today, half of Cummins 
employees and half the Company’s sales are from 
outside the United States.  
A New Cummins and a Strong New Brand
We have reshaped the Company into what we are 
calling a “New Cummins” – a company that is less 
cyclical, more diversified, more results-oriented 
and committed to turning a greater share of its 
sales into profits. We have adapted to changes in 
the competitive landscape by vertically integrating 
through original equipment manufacturer (OEM) partnerships and establishing ourselves as a 
global technology leader in a constantly changing 
emissions environment.
As the Company sought in recent years to reshape 
itself, it also considered that a stronger, more 
coherent look and feel to its branding would 
translate into competitive advantages in the 
marketplace and bring cost synergies for  
marketing and communications.
 
Cummins announced the brand strategy at  
the annual meeting of shareholders in May.   
All Cummins businesses and products are 
united under the Cummins name, with the 
Company’s earliest historical colors, red and black, 
representing it along with the large Cummins “C” 
in contrasting white or black.  The new brand 
standards are being implemented worldwide,  
from signage to vehicles to packaging.  
Our brand is the sum total of all our years 
in business.  From our beginning, when the 
Company’s founders first stood behind the products 
they sold to the ongoing growth of our diversified 
  Our Profile   5  business, Cummins has maintained a reputation for 
integrity.  In terms of a brand, that translates into  
a single vision:  dependability.  We want 
stakeholders to know that they can depend on 
Cummins.  And we want employees to be able to 
unify around the Cummins brand to create value 
and competitive advantage. 
Even with its new brand look, Cummins is at its core 
a family of four interrelated, yet diversified business 
segments that create or enhance value  
as a result of those relationships and doing 
business with one other. These four business 
segments are Engine, Power Generation, 
Components and Distribution.
Cummins products can be found in nearly every 
type of vehicle, from the heavy-duty diesel-powered 
trucks that travel the world’s highways, to tractors 
that till the soil, large trucks that carry natural 
resources from the mine and ships that travel the 
world’s waterways. Cummins-built generators 
supply both prime and auxiliary power around the 
globe. Filters and related components help engines 
run cleaner and more efficiently. A network of distributors provide repair and maintenance service 
for customers worldwide.
Engine Business
Cummins manufactures and markets a complete 
line of diesel engines for on-highway and off-
highway use and natural gas engines for automotive 
and stationary applications.  Its markets include 
heavy- and medium- duty truck, bus, recreational 
vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive and a number of 
industrial uses including agricultural, construction, 
mining, marine, oil and gas and governmental 
equipment. The Engine Business also provides 
a full range of new parts and services, as well as 
remanufactured parts and engines through an 
extensive distribution network.
Cummins engines range in size from 1 to ,500 
horsepower and from 1.4 liters to 91 liters. 
Power Generation Business
Cummins Power Generation is a global provider of 
power generation systems, components and services 
6   Our Profilein standby power, distributed power generation, 
as well as auxiliary power in mobile applications 
to meet the needs of a diversified customer base.  
Cummins Power Generation also provides a full 
range of services and solutions, including long-term 
operation and maintenance contracts, and turnkey 
and temporary power solutions.   
Cummins Power Generation products include diesel 
and alternative-fueled electrical generator sets from 
.5 to ,700 kW, alternators from 0.6 KVA to 0,000 
KVA, transfer switches from 40 amps to ,000 amps, 
paralleling switchgear and generator set controls.
Components Business
The Components segment is made up of four  
lines of business:
Cummins Filtration  designs, manufactures and 
distributes heavy-duty air, fuel, hydraulic and lube 
filtration, chemicals and exhaust system technology 
products for diesel and gas-powered equipment. Cummins Turbo Technologies designs and 
manufactures turbochargers and related products, 
on a global scale, for diesel engines above  liters.
Cummins Emission Solutions develops 
and supplies catalytic exhaust systems and 
related products to the medium- and heavy-duty 
commercial diesel engine markets.  The exhaust 
systems include packaging of catalytic exhaust 
systems, engineered aftertreatment components 
and system integration services for engine 
manufacturers.
Cummins Fuel Systems designs, develops and 
manufactures new fuel systems and remanufactures 
electronic control modules in the United States.  In 
Mexico, it remanufactures Cummins and other’s fuel 
systems.  This business serves engines ranging 
from 9 to 78 liters.
Distribution Business
Cummins Distribution drives a comprehensive 
global distribution strategy and channel 
management. Capitalizing on synergies in parts Our brand is the sum total of all our years in business
  Our Profile   7  and services, this business helps Cummins by 
providing outstanding support to our customers, 
while growing a less cyclical and less capital 
intensive business.
The business consists of 17 company-owned 
distributors and 10 joint ventures, covering 90 
countries and territories through  locations.  
Through this network, trained personnel sell 
and distribute Cummins-branded products, 
related services and broader solutions such as 
maintenance contracts, engineering services and 
customized integrated products.  
The Company-owned distributors are located in key 
geographic markets such as China, India, Russia, 
Japan, Korea, South East Asia, Australia, Europe, 
Africa, the Middle East and Latin America.
Joint Ventures
Joint ventures offer many advantages to Cummins. 
They help decrease capital investment, increase 
scale, decrease development costs, expand our 
products into new geographic markets and expand our service capability.  Cummins participates in 
5 joint ventures, 9 of which the Company owns 
50 percent or less (known as unconsolidated JVs). 
The income and cash from these unconsolidated 
JVs have contributed substantially to the 
Company’s bottom line.  JV income is broad-based 
geographically – with about 46 percent coming 
from China, 4 percent from our North American 
distributor joint ventures and 8 percent from India. 
Commitment to Stakeholders
Cummins recognizes that its duty goes beyond 
the bottom line. While Cummins must deliver value 
to shareholders, it also strives to responsibly and 
effectively serve all stakeholders – customers, 
employees, business partners and the communities 
in which it operates.
The Company actively engages all stakeholders, 
seeking feedback and doing its best to keep them 
informed of Cummins’ actions and performance. 
The Company’s policies reflect a commitment to 
financial excellence, environmental stewardship, 
8   Our ProfileOur goal is to become and remain the first choice of customersworkplace equity, social responsibility and  
fair competition.
Customers
Cummins is dedicated to exceeding the 
expectations of its customers, making products 
and providing support that give customers a 
competitive advantage in the marketplace.
Cummins works with key customers during 
development and production to ensure that 
products are manufactured to the customers’ 
satisfaction. Increasingly, Cummins is using Six 
Sigma tools to help its customers and suppliers 
reduce costs and improve quality. 
The Company’s goal for using Six Sigma with 
customers is to create the shared belief that 
Cummins cares as much about the customer’s 
business as the customers themselves.  Cummins 
currently has approximately 185 active customer-
focused Six Sigma projects and has completed 
nearly 400 projects over the last three years.In some cases, Cummins has sent Six Sigma “belts” 
to work directly with a customer to solve a specific 
challenge. In other instances, Cummins has trained 
and provided support to belts working for our 
customers.  Some recent examples of Cummins 
customer-focused Six Sigma efforts:
Projects to improve fuel economy for  
Knight Transportation and CREngland, two  
large truck fleets
A project to improve the efficiency of freight 
between Cummins MidRange Engine Plant and 
DaimlerChrysler’s St. Louis North Plant
A project to reduce the number of monthly debit 
memos for International Truck, a major truck  
OEM partner  
Customer Care
One of the biggest challenges for Cummins in our 
extremely competitive global business environment 
is becoming and staying the first choice of 
customers.•
•
•
   Our Profile   9  Our goal is to become and remain the first choice of customers
That is why Cummins launched its Customer 
Support Excellence (CSE) initiative more than 
two years ago. As a company, we realized that 
it is not enough to develop the most innovative 
technology or build the most dependable engines. 
Our customers have to believe, and we must show 
them, that we care as much about their success as 
they do. Cummins uses the voice of the customer 
to drive improvement and we strive to execute 
customer-critical work flawlessly.
Each business unit has a leader responsible 
for developing projects to meet the needs of its 
customers. Also, each business unit is charged 
with developing Customer-Focused Six Sigma 
projects that tackle the issues and problems facing 
individual customers.
Cummins has developed several corporate-wide 
initiatives to improve the level of customer support 
across the Company
By focusing on making measurable improvements 
in the things that matter most to customers, we move closer to our objective of becoming the first 
choice of customers.
The Cummins Operating System 
The Cummins Operating System (COS) helps 
develop common practices and approaches 
designed to improve customer satisfaction and 
profitability. The COS is designed to reduce waste, 
improve quality, increase responsiveness and 
develop people. 
The COS consists of 10 operating practices that 
are common across the Company. It is supported 
by nine common functions, each with a Functional 
Excellence framework. The Functional Excellence 
framework at Cummins provides standards, 
measures, skills requirements and an individual 
work plan so each function in the Company can 
provide service or support at world class levels.  
Employees are trained on the COS and Functional 
Excellence approaches and their importance to 
Cummins future success.
Customer Service Consultant Dennis Snow led a 
workshop on Customer Support Excellence in India.
10   Our ProfileA key aspect of the Functional Excellence approach 
at Cummins involves promoting leadership across 
all business units and groups.  Leaders at Cummins 
are measured on their ability to:
Drive the organization toward the Vision by 
accomplishing the Mission
Live and foster the Cummins core values of 
integrity, innovation, delivering superior results, 
diversity, global involvement and corporate 
responsibility
Focus on customer success and deliver results
Create an environment in which people can 
develop and flourish, and where championship 
teams flourish
In 006 Cummins began conducting COS 
assessments.  These assessments allow Cummins 
to demonstrate that the 10 COS practices are 
embedded in our key processes.  They also allow 
us to identify improvement opportunities in our key 
processes.  Once these opportunities are identified, 
an improvement plan is created and implemented 
to close the gaps.  •
•
•
•Employees
Cummins has a long history of being an employer of 
choice. That reputation continues to this day and is 
reinforced by the Company’s competitive salary and 
benefits offerings, training and career development 
opportunities and positive work environment.
Cummins employees enjoy a full slate of benefits, 
including innovative and competitively priced 
health-care coverage; pension and retirement 
programs; generous tuition reimbursement benefits 
for continuing education; access to world-class 
child development centers; flexible work schedules; 
employee assistance programs and more. These 
benefits also were made available to non-spousal 
domestic partners in 000.
Cummins places a premium on its workers treating 
one another with respect and dignity. Treatment of 
others at work is a key component of the Company’s 
Code of Business Conduct and is the subject of 
mandatory training for all new hires. Training and 
career development opportunities also play a crucial 
Our Profile   11  Cummins has a long history as an employer of choiceThe work Cummins did with DaimlerChrysler on the 
launch of the new 006 Dodge Ram Mega Cab 4X4 
pickup shows the practical value of the Customer 
Support Excellence initiative to the Company and 
the customer.
Prior to the launch of the Mega Cab, 
DaimlerChrysler came to Cummins to reduce  
the vibration the Cummins-powered truck, so a  
Six Sigma project was launched to determine  
the source of the vibration.
A Cummins Black Belt put a team together 
that included engineers from Cummins and a 
representative from DaimlerChrysler to work on the 
problem. The team determined what would be an 
acceptable level of vibration and how to measure 
the problem. They then conducted a series of tests 
to determine the source.
The problem was found in a key dimension on 
the crankshaft, which the team fixed, resulting 
in a 16 percent reduction in the vibration. The 
team demonstrated the improvements to 
DaimlerChrysler’s satisfaction and even earned praise for the truck from a USA Today reviewer who 
said it was “…perhaps the easiest of all pickup 
diesels to live with because it is quiet and smooth.” 
DaimlerChrysler also was impressed with 
the project.  Luke Marsh, DaimlerChrysler’s 
representative on the project team, said “I was 
surprised that they (Cummins) were able to  
reduce the engine vibration that much. It was pretty 
impressive that they were willing to do what they  
did for us.”Vibration Work Resonated with DaimlerChrysler
1   The team of Ryan Pivonka, Dan Showalter and 
Mathew Meek pictured left to right.role in Cummins’ success and in the Company’s 
efforts to attract and retain a talented workforce.
All new hires must attend mandatory training 
courses covering treatment of others, diversity, 
information and physical security, sexual 
harassment issues, the Cummins Performance 
Management System and the Cummins Operating 
System.  In addition, the Company’s Powertrain 
program offers on-line training on a variety 
of subjects, ranging from business software 
applications to project management skills to 
interpersonal and communications skills to 
presentation and leadership skills.
Employees’ performance and development  
plans are reviewed through the Cummins
Performance Management System (CPMS). 
Through CPMS, employees work with their 
supervisors to create challenging work plans that 
reflect the goals of the Company and its individual 
performance cells. Employees receive formal 
feedback from supervisors and peers quarterly,  
in addition to a comprehensive annual evaluation.Cummins also offers its employees myriad 
challenges and opportunities for growth within 
the Company as their skills and interests dictate. 
Cummins has a strong history of “growing its own” 
leaders, and employees regularly move freely  
from one part of the Company to another. 
Employees are encouraged to seek out new 
challenges and to continually broaden their skill 
sets. High-potential employees are identified and 
offered comprehensive leadership training as part 
of the Company’s ongoing efforts to develop its 
leaders from within.
Business partners
Cummins has working relationships with distributors 
and suppliers across the world. Similarly, the 
Company acts as a supplier of components to  
a number of equipment manufacturers, and has  
been able to build strong bonds with its  
business partners.
The Company is proud of its efforts to earn 
“preferred supplier” status with customers.  For Cummins knows its duty goes beyond the bottom line
Our Profile   1  example, Eicher Motors Limited recently recognized 
Tata Holset, one of our joint ventures in India that 
manufactures turbochargers, as Best Supplier 
for outstanding contribution to supply chain 
management in the category of proprietary items.  
Judging criteria for best vendor included parts per 
million (PPM) level, quality certification, adherence 
to schedule, on-time delivery, cost reduction, 
response time and service support. 
Suppliers
 
Cummins has launched a focused effort to ensure 
that the Company’s most critical suppliers are 
committed to improvement through Six Sigma.  
Critical suppliers to Cummins must meet particular 
Six Sigma performance requirements.  Cummins’ 
quality is heavily dependent on the quality of our 
suppliers’ products.  Our experience is that Six 
Sigma is a reliable approach to quality improvement.  
Columbus Components Group, a minority-owned 
Cummins supplier located in Columbus, Indiana, 
has been recognized for its use of Six Sigma tools 
to assess quality control and create an overall quality improvement plan.  Columbus Components 
Group closed its first Six Sigma project, which 
resulted in a significant improvement in quality for 
components supplied to the Cummins Jamestown 
Engine Plant.  This improvement was a significant 
factor in awarding Columbus Components Group 
additional business for the model year 007 Dodge 
Ram pickup engine.
Shareholders
Returning value, in terms of profits, rising stock 
prices and dividends, is a primary measure of a 
company’s commitment to its shareholders.
Beyond returning financial value, Cummins believes 
it owes investors a transparent window into its 
financial workings. Cummins goes to great lengths 
to keep the investing community up-to-date on its 
performance and future outlook. Top executives 
hold quarterly teleconferences with industry 
analysts to discuss financial results. Company 
representatives also host or attend a number of 
investor conferences during the year, and meet or 
talk directly with individual analysts and investors on 
nearly a daily basis.
Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels (left) talks with 
President Joe Loughrey and CEO Tim Solso 
about future production of the new light-duty 
diesel in Columbus, Indiana.
14   Our ProfileCommunities
Cummins and its employees are actively engaged 
in improving people’s lives in the communities in 
which the Company operates.
When Cummins announced that it had selected 
the Columbus (Indiana) Engine Plant (CEP) as the 
production facility for its new family of light-duty, 
clean-diesel engines, it did more than just select a 
manufacturing location.  Cummins chose Columbus 
in large part because of a strong package of 
educational programs offered by the state to ensure 
a robust and skilled workforce in southeastern and 
central Indiana. 
For example, the Indiana Department of Workforce 
Development – in alignment with Ivy Tech 
Community College – has offered up to $1.5 million 
to support advanced manufacturing training.  The 
Department of Workforce Development also has 
committed $ million to grow awareness and 
interest in advanced manufacturing careers. That 
total includes funds to cover the start-up costs for 
the “Dream It. Do It.” careers campaign created by the Manufacturing Institute of the National 
Association of Manufacturers. The goal of this 
program is to educate young adults and their 
parents on the career opportunities available in 
advanced manufacturing.
The Company also encourages volunteer efforts 
among its employees, a key supplement to 
Cummins’ corporate giving program, which makes 
funds available to worthwhile community causes 
– with an emphasis on education, employment, 
health issues and the environment. In addition, 
one of the Company’s core corporate values is to 
ensure that the work we do contributes to a cleaner, 
healthier environment for everyone. 
Those efforts are detailed in the “Social 
Responsibility” and “Environmental” sections  
of this report.
 “Dream It. Do It” is designed to educate young adults about  
 careers in advanced manufacturing
Our Profile   15  Economic Performance
Over the past several years, the Company has 
launched new businesses, built partnerships 
and expanded its global reach.  In the face of 
troubling times early in this decade, the Company 
made a commitment to focus on becoming the 
lowest cost producer, pursue efficiency and 
process improvements and rethink its go-to-
market strategies.  Also, Cummins has introduced 
quality products that have been well received 
by customers.  At the same time, Cummins 
has continued to fund important development 
efforts,while wisely managing capital investments 
and improving its return on average net assets.
As a result, Cummins’ financial performance in 
005 was the best in its history. Net sales, earnings 
before interest and taxes (EBIT), net earnings and 
net cash provided by operating and investing 
activities were all records for the Company.  In 006, 
we expect greater than 5 percent growth in net 
earnings year-over-year on better than 10 percent 
growth in revenue. Cummins has benefited from strong demand across 
a number of our more cyclical markets, and our 
focus on execution has delivered excellent bottom-
line results.  We are seeing margin expansion and 
profitable market share growth with disciplined 
pricing, a focus on cost reduction and superior 
product performance in existing and emerging 
markets.  And we are building a core base of stable, 
diversified earnings that will continue to provide 
increased stability in our financial performance.  
Evidence that our stable, diversified earnings  
are growing:
Stronger international mix, with a focus on 
emerging markets
Growth in related markets has lessened our 
concentration in the North American heavy-duty 
truck engine market
An expanding relationship with DaimlerChrysler, 
our largest customer
Profitable growth in our distribution channels
Profitably growing joint ventures globally•
•
•
•
•
16   Our Profile-5%0%5%1015%20%25%30%
0%1%2%3%4%5%6%7%8%
1995                    1996                      1997                      1998                        1999                       2000                          2001       20    02           2003             2004            2005Capital/Rev enue (% ) ROANA %In 006, Cummins’ credit ratings were upgraded to 
investment grade status by two major rating agencies. 
They cited improved operating performance and 
strengthened financial profile as rationale for the 
upgrades.  In fact, the Company has sustained its 
operating performance above its financial targets for 
return on equity, return on average net assets and 
earnings before interest and taxes for the last 10 
quarters.(as of third quarter 006.)
The Company has been very clear about its 
operational cash priorities:  strengthening the 
balance sheet, investing wisely in the business 
and returning value to shareholders.  For example, 
Cummins has reduced its debt by nearly $900 million 
over a two-year period.  This summer we completed 
the $100 million dollar share repurchase we began 
last fall, increased our quarterly cash dividend by 0 
percent and announced an additional authorization 
to repurchase  million shares.   The Company continues to spend its capital 
wisely while still funding all important development 
initiatives.  In 005 and 006, the Company 
announced new or expanded investments in 
the on-highway markets of India and China in 
addition to investments in engine, fuel system 
and aftertreatment technology for new emission 
requirements.  Our businesses are tightly  
managing their capital expenditures by focusing  
on generating asset returns above performance 
targets and leveraging our partnerships to share  
in the financial investment.
Cummins’ commitment to being a low-cost producer 
also has not wavered. In addition to the pervasive 
use of Six Sigma, increased global sourcing 
and improvements in both facility and technical 
productivity have helped to lower the Company’s 
cost structure.  These initiatives have streamlined 
administrative processes, cut overhead, reduced 
variation and allowed us to be more innovative 
in developing products that meet customer 
expectations for quality and performance.Leveraging Capital for Maximum Returns
Our Profile   17  -5%0%5%1015%20%25%30%
0%1%2%3%4%5%6%7%8%
1995                    1996                      1997                      1998                        1999                       2000                          2001       20    02           2003             2004            2005Capital/Rev enue (% ) ROANA %Investors have recognized the Company’s improved 
performance with an increase in the stock price.  
The Company’s stock has outperformed the 
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index for the previous one-, 
three- and five-year time periods, and our stock 
price hit an all-time high of $19.0 in October. Yet 
the Company understands that it must continue to 
deliver value to its stakeholders, by reducing the 
impact on earnings of the cyclicality in our end-user 
markets, by focusing on positive cash flow and by 
investing in the right technologies for the future.
Detailed financial information can be found in the 
Company’s filings with the U. S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission, which are available in the 
Investor Information section of the Company web 
site, www.cummins.com.  The Company’s Fact Book, 
also found on the web site, provides a brief summary 
of the Company and contains income statement and 
balance sheet trends for the past 10 years.Cummins Outperforms Peers
-0%-10%0%10%0%0%40%50%
Peer A vg.Cummins
S&P 5001-year r eturn at 1.1.05
-year r eturn at 1.1.05
-year r eturn at 1.1.05Total Shareholder Return
18   Our ProfileCummins is growing net income faster than revenue 
and converting more income into cash, helping it to 
outperform its peers in several key measures.0%0%60%90%10%150%
Operating
Cash FlowNet Income
Revenu ePeer Group MedianCompound Annual Growth Rate Since 00CMI19  Belgium Greenhouse
Fruit or vegetable? A more important question for 
Belgium tomato-grower Geert de Breuck to answer 
was, “How can I reduce my energy costs?” 
With the help of an innovative combined heat 
and power (CHP) system from Cummins Power 
Generation, the business produces nearly 4 million 
pounds of tomatoes each year. The system uses 
natural gas to generate electricity, heat and carbon 
dioxide, while at the same time accelerating tomato 
growth.
Year round, waste heat from the generator is 
recovered through a heat exchanger and can be 
used to provide heat in De Breuck’s covered plant-
growing areas. The generator’s exhaust gases, 
cleansed first by a special exhaust gas washer, 
also provide the carbon dioxide the tomato plants 
need for photosynthesis. While the tomato plants 
use only 5 percent of the electricity generated, the 
remainder is injected into the grid. It has sometimes been tricky to balance the needs 
of the growing tomato plants with the realities of 
operating a generator set. For example, during 
summer daylight hours the tomatoes need ample 
carbon dioxide, but require little additional heat.  
By only running the CHP system during daylight 
hours, it produces carbon dioxide when the plants 
need it, and generates electricity when its value is 
the highest. When heat is needed during the night, 
hot water is circulated from the large buffer tank that 
was warmed by the system during the day. 
The project has proven to be economical,  
helped by the system’s operation at more than  
90 percent efficiency, and government rebates  
and tax exemptions via CHP certificates and  
CO emission permits.
 
The system should pay for itself in about .5 years, 
depending on the price of natural gas and tomatoes, 
the value of the electricity sold, maintenance costs 
and the value of government incentives.
Social and Corporate Responsibility
0   Social and Corporate ResponsibilityCummins is governed by a nine-member Board of Directors. Among the directors, only Cummins Chief 
Executive Officer Theodore (Tim) M. Solso and Cummins President Joe Loughrey are current employees  
of the Company.  Board members are:
Theodore (Tim) M. Solso  – Chief Executive 
Officer and Chairman of the Board at Cummins 
since 000, after serving as Company President 
since 1995. 
Robert J. Darnall  – Retired Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of Inland Steel Industries and a 
Cummins director since 1989. 
John M. Deutch  – Institute Professor at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology since 1990 
and a Cummins director since 1997. 
Alexis M. Herman  – Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of New Ventures and a director 
since 001. 
F. Joseph (Joe) Loughrey – Named President 
and Chief Operating Officer in May 005 and to the 
Board in July 005, after serving as Executive Vice President and President – Engine Business for more 
than five years.  
Georgia R. Nelson  – President and CEO of PTI 
Resources, LLC.  She joined the Cummins Board  
in 004. 
William I. Miller  – Chairman and CEO of Irwin 
Financial Corp. and a director since 1989. 
Carl Ware  – President & Chief Operating Officer of 
Ware Investment Properties, LLC. He was named a 
director in 004. 
J. Lawrence Wilson  – Retired Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer of Rohm and Haas Co. and 
a director since 1990.As the banner says:  Cummins has “a passion for 
rural children’s education.”
expenditures, diversifications, acquisitions, 
divestitures and new ventures. 
Advise senior management.
Monitor
The performance of the Company
The performance of senior management
The effectiveness of internal controls and  
risk management practices
Compliance with all applicable laws  
and regulations
Communications and relationships  
with stakeholders 
In discharging its fiduciary duties to act in the best 
interests of the Company, the Board considers the 
effect of its actions on shareholders, employees, 
suppliers, customers, communities and the interests 
of society as represented by our regulators. Link 
here for the Corporate Governance Principles.
 
Cummins’ corporate governance practices are 
rated semi-annually and given a Corporate 
Governance Quotient (CGQ) by Institutional 
Shareholder Services, Inc., the world’s leading 
provider of proxy voting and corporate governance •
•




Corporate Governance Principles  
for the Board 
The primary mission of the Board of Directors 
is to represent and protect the interests of the 
Company’s stakeholders.  In so doing, the Board 
has the legal responsibility for overseeing the 
affairs of the Company, and has certain specified 
powers and authorities with respect to corporate 
action provided by Indiana statutes.  
The Board’s oversight function is exercised through 
the election and appointment of competent officers.  
The Board relies on the integrity, expertise and 
competency of these officers in carrying out its 
oversight function.  
The Board’s responsibilities include the following:
  
Adopt corporate governance principles 
consistent with the Company’s Vision, Mission 
and Values.
Exercise sound and independent business 
judgment with respect to significant strategic 
and operational issues, including major capital •
•
 Social and Corporate Responsibility   1  services.  Cummins’ most recent rating in November 
006 indicates that the Company’s corporate 
governance practices have outperformed 0 percent 
of companies in the S&P 500 Index and 79 percent 
of the companies in its Capital Goods peer group.
The Company’s governance provisions include:  
The full Board is elected annually.
Executives and director are subject to stock 
ownership guidelines.
The Company expenses stock option grants  
on its income statement.
The Audit Committee is comprised solely of 
independent outside directors.
Committees of the Board
The Board has seven standing committees: 
Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
Compensation Committee, Governance and 
Nominating Committee, Finance Committee, 
Technology and Environment Committee and 
Proxy Committee. The responsibilities of the Audit, 
Compensation, Governance and Nominating, •
•
•
•Finance and Technology and Environment 
committees are set forth in written committee 
charters approved by the Board.  Link here for 
Committee Charters.
The Company complies with all NYSE and 
regulatory requirements concerning the 
membership of certain committees, including 
the requirements with respect to independence 
and financial expertise.  The Governance and 
Nominating Committee reviews the committee 
structures of the Board and the membership of 
the various committees annually, and makes 
recommendations for any changes to the Board.  
Code of Business Conduct
The Cummins Code of Business Conduct serves as 
the blueprint for the Company’s commitment to act 
with integrity, to do what is right and what we say 
we will do. This driving principle is reflected in all of 
the Company’s dealings with customers, suppliers, 
shareholders, employees and the countries and 
communities in which it does business.  The Code 
addresses a number of topics, including:Cummins Code of Conduct serves as a blueprint  
for the Company’s commitment to act with integrity
   Social and Corporate ResponsibilityProviding safe and innovative products that meet 
or exceed appropriate emissions standards
Competing vigorously, but with integrity
Complying with all applicable governmental 
regulations and laws
Conflicts and potential conflicts of interest with 
suppliers and customers
Proper treatment of others at work
The value of diversity in the workplace
Promoting a safe workplace
Valuing the environment
Contributing to the communities in which 
employees work and live
Ensuring accuracy and openness in  
financial reporting
Maintaining the confidentiality of persons who 
report violations of Company policies, procedures 
and rules of conduct, including sexual harassment 
and other improper conduct  
The Code includes a section that deals with 
expectations regarding employees’ treatment 
of suppliers and other business partners. The 
policies specifically address issues of conflict of 
interest, exchange of gifts and the need to conduct •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•business with integrity at all times. Link to the  
Code of Conduct.
Supplier Code of Conduct
In December 005, Cummins established a Supplier 
Code of Conduct designed to ensure that providers 
of products and services focus not only on good 
quality, but also on integrity, doing the right thing 
and treating others with dignity and respect.  The 
code covers 14 main topics including equal 
employment opportunity and treatment of others, 
forced and child labor, worker health and safety, 
the environment, wages and hours, freedom of 
association, political activity and bribery/corruption 
of government officials.   See sidebar story for more 
on our Supplier Code.
Controlling Exports
 
As an international Company, Cummins faces a 
complex set of export controls.  The United States 
frequently imposes trade embargoes against certain 
countries and places restrictions on items that can 
be shipped to certain other countries.
 Social and Corporate Responsibility     Teaching children hand motions to a nursery 
rhyme in an English textbook at the Hebei 
Huailai Waijinggou SchoolLegal requirements and cultural norms vary 
significantly in a global business environment. 
Thus, Cummins recognized that it had to walk a line 
between encouraging good behavior and imposing 
standards that would prove unrealistic in terms of 
local norms and regulations when it developed its 
Supplier Code of Conduct.
Even so, Cummins felt it important to signal its 
expectations to suppliers.  It is a requirement for 
suppliers to operate within local environmental 
and labor laws and in compliance with U.S. laws 
against bribery and conflict of interest.  It is a 
preference that they meet each of the stated policy 
elements that exceed the local legal requirements.  
The protection of private information is another key 
component to the code.
In January 006, Cummins began sending 
what became a total of nearly ,000 letters of 
introduction to its top suppliers, representing 85 
percent of our total 005 spend,  along with a copy 
of the code and a request for response.   
Suppliers were asked to establish a process 
ensuring compliance with the intent of the code and to provide a means for workers to anonymously 
report violations without fear of retribution.
By August, Cummins had seen a 60 percent 
response rate overall, with 87 percent of those 
responding indicating that they were in compliance 
with every element of the code.  All instances of self-
reported non-compliance evaluated to-date have 
indicated no significant variance to the intent of the 
policy. In certain regions where Cummins conducts 
a significant part of its business, including India and 
China, response and compliance rates reached 
higher than 90 percent.  Cummins is working with 
those suppliers who have not responded to attain 
our goal of 100 percent participation. 
Supplier Code of Conduct
4   Cummins VP of Global Purchasing and Manufacturing Support Ignacio Garcia (center)
at the opening ceremony of supplier GKN Zhongyuan in China earlier this yearCummins follows all applicable U.S. export laws, 
but goes further in some instances. For example, 
the Company bars transactions with any person 
or organization where the end destination of a 
Cummins product is Sudan or Myanmar (Burma);  
or where any Cummins product or service would be 
used in a military application in Syria, Libya, North 
Korea or Iran.
Cummins policy on exports is comprehensive, but 
can be summed up in the following manner:  We 
will know which countries are subject to sanctions.  
We will know our customers and business partners.  
We will know our products and be aware of their 
export control status.  We will obtain necessary 
licenses where warranted and will strictly follow their 
conditions.  We believe our reputation for ethical 
and responsible conduct is our most important and 
valuable asset, and we encourage employees to 
raise compliance concerns to the highest levels 
of the Company. All Cummins employees must 
complete the Annual Ethics Certification and certify 
their compliance with our most recent  
Export Control Policy, which was revised in 
September 006.Online Compliance Training
In today’s business environment, companies are 
required to comply with a growing number of laws 
and regulations on a wide variety of topics.  Staying 
up-to-date on these laws and regulations is important 
to ensure that employees maintain the highest level of 
ethics and legal compliance.  To that end, Cummins 
has worked with a leader in ethics training to design 
and deliver updated and customized compliance 
courses.  The first course available in 005 was on 
the Code of Business Conduct.  
 
The interactive online course provides a practical 
application of the code and reinforces training 
employees receive at the time they are hired.
In 006, Cummins rolled out the online Code of 
Conduct worldwide in six languages.  In addition, 
we have added three additional important 
compliance courses:  export controls, anti-bribery 
and antitrust law.
The Company has resources dedicated to 
investigating and solving confidential employee 
reports of viol ations of the Code of Conduct around We believe our reputation for ethical and responsible conduct is our  
most important and valuable asset
 Social and Corporate Responsibility   5  globe.  In conjunction with the Code of Conduct 
training, Cummins has enhanced its Ethics Help Line 
by adding commonality to the process worldwide.  
The new system enables employees to report 
violations in the language of their country via toll-free 
telephone service or the web.  It also provides a 
database that allows Cummins to better track reports 
and analyze results.  
Crisis Communications 
Making sure that Cummins is prepared if a crisis 
occurs is a key Company responsibility.  To assist 
facility managers and others involved in emergency 
planning, Cummins annually updates its Crisis 
Communications Plan. The plan includes vital 
information for facilities on how to communicate 
effectively during a crisis, as well as templates  
and forms to assist employees in gathering and 
updating information. 
Cummins is also in the process of developing 
business continuity plans by each business unit or 
critical function within the business unit.Managing Travel Risks
Cummins serves customers in more than 160 
countries, so global travel is part of many employees’ 
jobs.  Travel always involves an element of risk, but 
in today’s world it is especially important to manage 
that risk to the best of our ability.
We found ourselves working with numerous travel 
agencies across the world as Cummins’ business 
expanded globally, which made data gathering 
and reporting difficult.  This year, we sought to 
move to a single, global travel agency that could 
not only measure up in terms of economics, but 
also capability, systems and emergency reporting.  
Cummins used Six Sigma tools to develop the bid 
package and sign the best agency for the job.   
A world map tool will now be available to Cummins 
management, enabling the instant location of 
Cummins personnel worldwide.
Government Relations 
In August 001, Cummins opened an office in 
Washington, D.C. to coordinate government Making sure Cummins is prepared if a crisis occurs  
is a key company responsibility.
6   Social and Corporate ResponsibilityMaking sure Cummins is prepared if a crisis occurs  
is a key company responsibility.
Over the past year, reports of avian flu outbreaks 
have made headlines around much of the world. 
Much has been made about the consequences of  
a possible pandemic should the avian flu virus  
gain the ability to easily spread via human-to-
human contact.
At Cummins, the well-being of our employees is 
extremely important. As such, the Company is 
actively taking steps to ensure the health and safety 
of employees should a flu pandemic occur.
The Company has formed a Pandemic Planning 
Team with people representing medical, safety, 
risk management, human resources, facilities, 
communications, business continuity and other key 
areas to help create a strategic response plan in 
the case of a pandemic. 
The team has identified key components of the 
Company’s response should a pandemic occur.  
With that in mind, plans are being made to help the 
Company manage a potentially serious outbreak 
of avian flu – both as it relates to keeping our employees healthy and ensuring that our business 
is disrupted as little as possible. 
Our plans take into account the full range of our 
stakeholders – employees, customers, investors, 
suppliers, vendors and the communities in which 
we live and work. A critical part of successfully 
managing a situation such as this one is providing 
open lines of communication to employees. 
Employees at Cummins receive regular updates on 
the avian flu and on our efforts to keep them and 
our facilities safe. Should a widespread outbreak 
of flu affect Cummins operations, the Company is 
prepared to deal with the issue.
Pandemic Planning
   7  relations activities for the corporation.  The office 
provides strategic insight and advice to Cummins 
business leaders on emerging government 
issues and activities, provides top level access 
to government officials and key policymakers, 
develops and implements government relations 
strategies to achieve business objectives and 
advances business marketing objectives relative  
to government programs.  
The office elevates government issues to senior 
management, ensures alignment with Cummins 
businesses and objectives, and identifies and 
aggressively resolves key government issues for 
the corporation.  Specific areas of activity include 
energy policy, environment, tax, trade, transportation, 
government research and development, government 
markets, workplace and human resources issues, 
defense and homeland security, and facility and 
infrastructure programs. 
In 006, the office worked to ensure that the EPA’s 
regulations requiring ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel 
(ULSD) in October, 006 and engine emission 
reductions in January, 007 proceeded on schedule.  Cummins collaborated with other engine companies 
and stakeholders to fight for full funding of the 
Diesel Emissions Reduction Act of 005, a national 
grant and incentive program to promote voluntary 
retrofits of new emission reduction technologies 
on older diesel engines in existing fleets. The 
Company also supported Department of Energy 
research and development programs that promote 
energy efficiency in stationary and transportation 
applications.  
One of the Washington office’s primary focuses 
is national policies to streamline interconnection 
of distributed generation resources and obtain 
incentives for the installation of clean and efficient 
combined heat and power projects.  The office also 
works to encourage policymakers to take a balanced 
view on trade with countries such as China and India.
Social Performance
Throughout its 87-year history, Cummins has kept 
corporate social responsibility a fundamental part 
of who we are and how we do business.  Cummins 
has several ways of promoting this essential value 
8   Social and Corporate Responsibilityin our global communities.  A Corporate Social 
Responsibility Department oversees strategies and 
programs to encourage community involvement and 
responsible citizenship.  
The Cummins Foundation plays a role in promoting 
and developing programs or processes that enable 
the Company to perform well.  However, the most 
important work is done by Cummins employees 
through its Community Involvement Teams and 
record-breaking United Way participation.
As a result of the Company’s commitment to living 
its vision and mission, Cummins was named 
the “Top U.S. Corporate Citizen”  by  Business 
Ethics magazine in 005 and is one of only a few 
companies to be named to the “top 100” list every 
year since its inception seven years ago.  
Every Employee, Every Community
A new initiative, Every Employee, Every Community, 
allows employees to give back to their communities 
by volunteering on Company time. Each Cummins 
site around the world has the flexibility to schedule 
community service projects according to local needs, their facility and employee work schedules. 
From raking leaves to reading to children, from 
painting to stocking food pantries, Cummins 
employees have participated in a wide range of 
projects through this annual initiative. 
At Cummins, corporate social responsibility has 
three major areas of focus: community involvement, 
corporate donations and the Cummins Foundation.  
When special needs arise, Cummins has several 
avenues through which to provide assistance.
Community Involvement Teams
Community Involvement Teams (CITs) are employee-
led committees that represent the diversity of the 
workforce and all levels of management.  They are 
driven by the philosophy that a company cannot 
function without a healthy community.
Each team establishes a work plan, a budget and a 
focus area for community service.  Every two years, 
these teams are audited against a set of Functional 
Excellence criteria.  The audit process ensures 
that corporate responsibility remains an important A young student practices her writing at the  
School on Wheels, which brings school on a bus  
to children living in labor camps in India.
 Social and Corporate Responsibility   9  business objective across all business units, 
provides a measurement and recognition process 
and identifies areas for development over the next 
two-year cycle.
Community Involvement Teams have the 
responsibility of developing an annual plan, 
organizing volunteer activities, responding to 
community requests for donations and developing 
proposals for the Cummins Foundation.  
Here are some recent examples of CIT involvement 
around the globe:
The Beijing (East Asia) CIT in 006 made its 
second delivery of books to the Hebei Huailai 
Waijinggou School as part of the Cummins Library, 
a project that was started to provide children in 
rural areas access to books and to instill in them 
a love of reading. The team developed a process 
to establish an age-appropriate library, leveraged 
business schools’ expertise in book inventory 
and tracking mechanisms and started a “donate 
money to wear bluejeans on Friday” fund to 
maintain a fresh supply of reading material.  •In Korea, the CIT worked to build a house at “The 
Village of Hope” near the Cummins distribution 
business office. Team members performed a 
variety of homebuilding tasks, from pounding nails 
to pouring cement.   
An excellent example of how one-time Every 
Employee, Every Community  projects turn into 
longer-term relationships are the following from our 
Power Generation team in Fridley, Minnesota. 
Power Generation did landscaping and office work 
projects for Rise Inc., an organization that services 
persons with disabilities. Now Rise clients work for 
Power Generation in a number of capacities.
Power Generation engineers work to repair, modify 
and even invent devices to help the physically 
challenged clients at the Courage Center  
(see C.F.’s success story above.) 
The Minneapolis Indian Women’s Resources Center 
(MIWRC) was awarded a $77,000 grant, the first 
Cummins Foundation grant awarded to a Native 
American organization. The grant money will help 
develop and support MIWRC’s Native American •
•Every Employee, Every Community volunteers 
improved the living conditions for the 
impoverished and disabled in Wuxi, China
0   Social and Corporate ResponsibilityParenting Traditions (NAPTR) program, which 
addresses Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorder and 
its generational impacts. The Fridley team has 
collaborated with MIWRC on many initiatives:  
developing a communication plan, implementing Six 
Sigma tools and project management for the NAPTR 
program and painting, cleaning and assisting with 
special events.
Corporate Donations
Donations provide a means for Cummins to 
participate in community events that are more 
appropriately funded by the Company than the 
Foundation.  These activities include memberships, 
sponsorships, dinners or other events.  Cummins 
made approximately $1.1 million in corporate 
donations to charitable causes in 005 and $.9 
million in 006.
The Cummins Foundation
The Cummins Foundation is one of the oldest 
corporate charitable foundations in the  
United States.  The Foundation serves to  improve the communities in which Cummins does 
business by providing the tools and means for  
people living on the edge of society to overcome the 
barriers they face.  The Foundation’s President serves 
as Cummins’ Executive Director of Corporate Social 
Responsibility, providing leadership and coordination 
to all the Company’s social work.  Cummins also has 
formed foundations in Mexico and India over the  
last decade.   
The Foundation focuses on embracing the diverse 
perspectives of all people, seeking innovative 
ways to address societal needs by emphasizing 
partnerships and leveraging  people, money, 
products and services to make a difference.   
The Foundation awarded grants totalling  
$.1 million in 005 and $.8 million in 006.
In 005, the Cummins Foundation began the 
Community Innovation Grant Program (CIGP), 
which gives site leadership an opportunity to award 
grants with a greater financial impact to innovative 
programs in their communities.  The CIGP is the 
combination of two very successful programs the 
Foundation has spearheaded in recent years –  
Power Generation engineers designed a special 
switch for C.F. to use for communication and 
computer access.  Its easier activation and tailored 
positioning has given C.F. improved communication 
accuracy.  C.F. now has abilities not provided by 
the many commercially-made switches he tried 
previously.
 Social and Corporate Responsibility   1  the Plant Innovation Program and the 50th 
Anniversary Grant Program.
Donating funds to important projects is just part 
of the work done by the Foundation.  Cummins 
recognizes that “people power” can be as effective 
as providing grants, and the Foundation plays a 
leading role in facilitating Cummins employees  
and citizens worldwide to become involved in  
their communities.  
Examples of Innovation grants include:
In Juarez, Mexico, the CIT has partnered with the 
Multiple Attention Center. This institution provides 
therapy to 8 children from birth to age 14, who 
have mild to severe disabilities and have been 
abandoned. Currently, 80 Cummins employees 
volunteer at the facility to paint classrooms and 
therapy rooms, repair the playground area, 
replace broken windows and provide general 
clean-up of the building.  
 
 
 •Through the Power Generation Business, Cummins 
awarded an Innovation grant to the Snehalaya 
(Gateway to Heaven) Orphanage in India. Grant 
money covers the cost of running the orphanage 
for a year.  Snehalaya was founded as a crisis 
intervention organization for young children, many 
of whom are HIV-infected and who have been 
forced into the sex trade. 
The Indianapolis, Indiana, CIT has a partnership 
with Fostering Independence, an organization 
that helps young people transition out of the foster 
care system. Fostering Independence is helping 
participants by providing residential/community 
living, offering life skills seminars on financial 
management, health management and medical 
resources, and providing access to educational 
opportunities, vocational training  
and employment.   •
•
Cleaning up at Singapore’s most popular beach, 
East Coast Park.
   Social and Corporate Responsibility     The Corporate Social Responsibility department 
launched or completed several Six Sigma projects 
in 006, proving that Six Sigma can benefit 
processes in areas outside of manufacturing.  
Some examples include: 
Benefiting Cummins 
Project : Design and implement a common 
process for tracking direct Company  
charitable contributions.
Benefits : Greater awareness of corporate 
spending, optimized Cummins’ giving power, 
reduced costs through standardization of 
processing and ensure tax compliance.
Project : Redesign the Cummins Foundation  
grant payment process for both national and 
international transactions.
Benefits :  Optimized the efficiency of the payment 
in order to reduce/eliminate the administrative tasks, 
decrease processing time and ensure compliance 
with federal regulations.Project :  Increase the Southern/Central Indiana 
United Way Plus trackable financial contribution 
percentage by 1 percentage points while 
maintaining or improving total contribution dollars.
Benefits :  Additional money available to United 
Way Plus agencies.
Helping our Partners
Project : Improve Bartholomew County United Way 
pledge and payment processing by reducing data 
corrections.
Benefits :  More accurate results earlier in the 
campaign for more follow-up, ultimately more funds 
raised, thus enabling United Way employees to 
devote time to other work and/or not have to hire 
additional resources.
Project :   Process redesign feasibility study for 
domestic violence non-profit agency.  
Benefits :   Develop a strategy for optimizing 
agency’s case management process while 
integrating all services (Crisis Calls, Outreach  
and Shelter) with community service offerings.Six Sigma and Corporate Social Responsibility
Diversity
“We have a far better chance of attracting and 
retaining the best talent available if we create a 
work environment that encourages talented  
people to join us and, once here, to contribute 
to their full potential.  To do so means that every 
person must be treated with dignity and respect, 
and be provided fair pay and benefits for the work 
they do…”
- Tim Solso, current Cummins Chairman and CEO
“In the search for character and commitment, we 
must rid ourselves of our inherited, even cherished, 
biases and prejudices…When we indulge ourselves 
in such irrational prejudices, we damage ourselves 
most of all and ultimately assure ourselves of  
failure in competition with those more open and  
less biased.”
– J. Irwin Miller, former Cummins Chairman and CEO.
The words of two Cummins chairmen – spoken 
years apart – demonstrate that Cummins’ 
commitment to diversity has not wavered with the 
passage of time or a change in leadership.  At 
Cummins – which does business in more than 160 
countries - the message is powerful: Not only is valuing diversity good business, it’s also 
the right thing to do.
From a business perspective, the Company 
believes that successfully managing diversity 
strengthens relationships with an increasingly 
diverse customer base. Beyond that, a diverse 
work force – in terms of race, ethnicity, age, gender, 
sexual orientation and educational background 
– ensures a variety of perspectives to best address 
the Company’s business needs. Cummins diversity 
initiatives include the following:
All employees complete a comprehensive 
diversity training program designed exclusively for 
Cummins. Second generation (advanced diversity 
management topics) training is a mandatory part 
of career development for leaders.  
The Chairman’s Diversity Council, made up of 
senior leaders from across the Company, sets 
the course for diversity issues including hiring 
practices, supplier relations, benefits matters and 
training.  •
•Not only is valuing diversity good business,  
it’s also the right thing to do
4   Social and Corporate ResponsibilityIn all, 48 Local Diversity Councils (LDCs) have 
been created to address diversity issues in 
the communities in which Cummins does 
business. In addition, the LDCs focus on 
recruiting, retention and cultural differences in 
the workplace.  Affinity groups, or employee 
resource groups, have been instrumental in 
Cummins’ diversity journey.  Currently, we have 
affinity groups for African and African- Americans, 
Asians, Chinese, Latino, new hires and lesbian, 
gay, bisexual and transgender employees.  
Cummins’ long-standing commitment to use 
qualified minority-owned suppliers has yielded 
good results in recent years. In 005, Cummins 
spent $11 million with small business and 
minority-owned suppliers.
Cummins offers health care and other benefits 
to non-spousal domestic partners. In making 
these benefits available to employee life partners, 
Cummins recognizes that it must provide 
attractive and flexible programs to all employees.
In 006, the Human Rights Campaign recognized 
Cummins – for the second year in a row - as one 
of the corporations that achieved a 100 percent 
score on its Corporate Equality index.•
•
•
•Cummins has received local, state, national and 
global recognition for its work to develop and 
manage diversity in the workforce. In early 006, 
Diversity Inc., a nationally-recognized magazine 
in the U.S. that covers diversity issues, named 
Cummins one of the Notable Companies  
for Diversity. 
In 006, Cummins won the prestigious Australian 
Government Business Achievement Award for 
the advancement of women in the workplace.  
Cummins was also a finalist for the Outstanding 
Initiative/Result for the Advancement of Women, 
presented by Australian government’s Equal 
Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency.
Cummins Parts and Service is participating in a 
university program in which students intern locally 
and at our international remanufacturing locations. 
This program helps increase cultural awareness 
and diversity appreciation, and enables the next 
generation workforce to function effectively in 
our increasingly global enterprise. GEARE is 
a unique program originating in the College of 
Engineering at Purdue University in partnership 
with Universität Karlsruhe (Karlsruhe, Germany), 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University (Shanghai, China), 
and Indian Institute of Technology Bombay 
(Mumbai, India).•
•
•
Cummins Diesel South Africa employees helped improve the poor conditions of the Enkanyezi Creche 
day care center in the rural Molweni district.
 Social and Corporate Responsibility   5  Cummins’ concept of diversity in the workplace has 
two parts. The first is creating a diverse workplace 
in terms of the representation of people from many 
different backgrounds.  The second is creating an 
environment that manages people’s differences 
effectively and, in doing so, inspires innovative 
ideas and solutions. Making sure that everyone has 
a voice can lead to creative solutions that address 
real-time problems.
The Company relies on the insight that comes from 
a diverse workforce to enter new markets and 
geographies. The Company depends on the varied 
talents of its people, systems and organizational 
knowledge to solve complex problems, reduce 
costs, and create differentiated products and 
services that delight customers.  
Diversity provides Cummins with a competitive 
advantage in the following areas:
New markets and new businesses   
Sales in markets outside of the United States 
currently are growing faster than in the U.S. Nearly all world growth to 050 is projected to occur 
in Africa, Asia and Latin America. The best way to 
grow into new businesses and more geographic 
regions is to have employees who understand the 
culture or are part of it.
Customer requirements 
Purchasing materials and services from a diverse 
supply base puts Cummins in a position to take 
advantage of all opportunities to be the low-cost 
producer. Cummins’ customers demand we  
create economic opportunity for all parts of  
society, especially those under-represented in 
today’s economy.  
Changing demographics
Successful companies understand how the world’s 
population is being transformed by immigration 
and changing birthrates.  The population of Latinos, 
people of African descent and Asians is growing 
and more women occupy positions of authority 
in business and government.  Companies that 
understand and adapt to these demographic 
changes will thrive in the economy of the future.  
6   Social and Corporate ResponsibilityCompetitive performance  
Having a diverse workforce enables a company to 
solve complex problems, innovate and otherwise 
adapt more quickly in a competitive environment.  
Attracting and retaining the best people
Employees who feel welcome and valued in the 
workplace will be more innovative, act as owners 
and engage customers to provide superior 
products and service.  
A company that promotes diversity in hiring and 
increases an understanding and appreciation of 
differences will reap the following benefits:A positive work environment where all people can 
perform at the highest levels
Increased employee engagement and creativity
Attraction and retention of the best talent
A positive reputation in the community
Improved decision-making capabilities provided 
by more viewpoints and choices
Improved problem resolution
Doing the right thing – A company is only as 
healthy as the environment and communities 
in which its employees work and live.  It is in 
Cummins’ self-interest, not selfish interest, to 
create an environment in which people treat 
others as they want to be treated.  This is 
consistent with the Company’s core values.•
•
•
•
•
•
•Working on Habitat for Humanity’s “The Village  
of Hope” project in Korea
 Social and Corporate Responsibility   7  “At Cummins we take seriously our obligation to 
continue to invest in new, more efficient products, 
practices and technologies, which both meet  our 
customers’ needs and emission reduction objectives.
“We have taken many steps to fulfill our Corporate 
environmental mission, which demands that 
everything we do leads to a cleaner, safer, healthier 
environment.  And while our accomplishments to 
date have been significant, we are ready for the 
next challenge:   to develop a company-wide  
global climate change policy that will guide us in 
improving energy efficiency and minimizing our 
impact on the environment.  
“This new policy will be developed in cooperation 
with our international entities and will reflect their 
unique objectives and capabilities.  
“This policy also will establish objectives and 
milestones that will help us achieve annual goals for 
both our facilities and products.  
“Finally, it will provide opportunities for individuals 
within the Company to make a difference.   
Already, over the past six years, we have 
recognized energy efficiency improvements from 
Six Sigma projects which amount to several million 
dollars.  This gives us confidence that there is 
more to improve, and many employees eager 
to participate.  Employee involvement and bold 
objectives help Cummins achieve its mission to 
make peoples lives better by unleashing the  
power of Cummins.”
- Christine VujovichSetting A Greenhouse Gas Reduction 
Target and Joining EPA’s Climate Leaders
As a part of its continued commitment to sustainable 
practices, Cummins announced in October 006 its 
participation in the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s (EPA) Climate Leaders program. 
By participating in Climate Leaders, Cummins has 
pledged to reduce its corporate-wide greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions intensity by 5 percent by 
010, against a base year of 005.  The Company 
will track greenhouse gas emissions at Cummins-
managed facilities worldwide.
The GHG reduction goal is in addition to the 0 
percent reduction in GHG intensity that Cummins 
has already achieved from 000-005. See pages 
57 through 61 to read about ways we already work 
to reduce carbon emissions for our customers and 
in our own facilities.
Launched in February 00, EPA’s Climate Leaders 
is an industry-government partnership that works 
to develop long-term comprehensive corporate 
Developing a Comprehensive   
Climate Change Policy
8  Christine Vujovich, Vice President of Marketing 
and Environmental Policyclimate change strategies.  Climate Leaders 
Partners set a corporate-wide greenhouse gas 
reduction goal, inventory their emissions to 
measure progress and report that data to the EPA. 
Carbon Disclosure Project and the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index
As with Climate Leaders, Cummins seeks to partner 
with groups that help us be a better steward of  
the environment. 
In 006, we participated in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP), an institutional investor consortium 
that seeks to encourage greater environmental 
reporting among companies.    On behalf of 
investors representing $1 trillion in assets under 
management, CDP asks companies to provide 
details on their carbon emissions, their positioning 
in response to the impact of climate change on 
their markets and regulatory environment, their use 
of energy and planning for the future.
 The Company was named to the Dow Jones World 
Sustainability Index for the second year in row, being 
recognized again for its economic, environmental 
and social leadership.  This index represents the top 
10 percent of the world’s largest ,500 companies in 
these corporate sustainability metrics. 
Cummins also is a member of the Business 
Round Table Climate RESOLVE (Responsible 
Environmental Steps, Opportunities to Lead by 
Voluntary Efforts), whose members have voluntarily 
committed to reduce or offset greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions. Cummins also is a member of 
the Global Environmental Leadership Council of the 
Pew Center on Climate Change and Resources for 
the Future Climate Forum.
Alan Resnik, Cummins Director of Corporate 
Environmental Management, accepts membership 
into the Climate Leaders program.
   9  Note:  Greenhouse gas intensity is a normalized 
(versus absolute) measure, which allows  
reporting to be done in the context of changes  
in production volume.  40   Environment and SafetyPerformance Indicators: Products
Cummins products are designed to provide 
customers with the highest levels of performance, 
durability and dependability at the lowest cost  
of operation.  At the same time, the Company  
is committed to meeting and exceeding clean  
air standards. 
To achieve its commitment, Cummins has long been 
a pioneer in emission research and development, 
investing in critical technologies to achieve future 
emission standards while meeting the needs of the 
customer. The emission solutions the Company 
uses today are the result of a technology plan set 
in motion in the early 1990s. This plan will carry 
Cummins through 010 and beyond.
At the core of this road map is a strategic decision 
not to limit the Company’s approach, but to develop 
the right technology for each application and 
market served. Different operating conditions and 
factors can and will influence the technology path 
for each market. While developing multiple emission 
solutions has required a broad and deep investment 
in research and development, the Company 
believes it will guarantee Cummins’ customers optimum performance and reliability at the lowest 
possible cost of operation. 
More than half of the $.4 billion spent by Cummins 
on research and development in the last 10 
years has been invested in emission reduction 
technologies.  Nothing the Company does is more 
important. Through our technical productivity 
initiatives, we have reduced our cost of research 
and engineering from 5 percent of sales to less 
than  percent of sales while growing market share 
and extending our product lines.  One part of this 
strategy involves process improvement tools such 
as Six Sigma  and Analysis-Led Design (using 
computer analysis and simulation tools to optimize 
designs analytically and eliminate expensive 
prototype testing). Another is to involve original 
equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and joint venture 
partners as early as possible in the development 
and integration process. This open exchange 
of information and technology has been – and 
will continue to be – instrumental in developing 
high-performance products that deliver optimum 
performance and reliability at the lowest total cost.
Environment and SafetyEnvironment and Safety   41  
Farmers around the world depend on Cummins. 
First in 2002 – Ready for 2007
Cummins was the first to meet the EPA standards 
in 00 – and we’re well on our way to meeting the 
next level of EPA standards in 007.  The proven 
products in operation today are the base platform 
for 007.  Engines with 007 technology have been 
in field tests with end-users since mid-005. And in 
007 Cummins’ ability to leverage its businesses will 
become even more of an advantage, as Cummins 
is the only engine manufacturer with wholly-owned 
subsidiaries providing technology for air-handling 
(Cummins Turbo Technologies ), aftertreatment 
systems (Cummins Emission Solutions), and fuel 
systems (Cummins Fuel Systems). 
As a result, the Company is able to practice 
system integration across all critical components 
and subsystems. The Cummins technology plan 
for on-highway, heavy-duty applications in 007 
is straightforward: Cummins will continue to use 
cooled EGR as the base technology for NOx 
reduction and will use a particulate filter to  
achieve the required 90 percent reduction in 
particulate matter (PM).The Right Technology Matters
Leadership in combustion research, fuel systems, 
air-handling systems, electronics, filtration  and 
aftertreatment allows Cummins to maintain its goal 
of maximizing customer value by providing the most 
appropriate emissions control solution for each 
market served.  
Cummins is committed to designing and delivering 
the right technology for the customers we serve.  
Emissions standards vary by market and by 
region; Cummins’ diverse product portfolio meets 
or exceeds all emissions requirements, and at the 
same time, delivers on customer needs for fuel 
economy, performance, reliability and durability.  
Nearly 0 major automotive and industrial Cummins 
engine development programs, including heavy-
duty, midrange and high-horsepower engines,  
will launch products globally in 006:4   Environment and SafetyTen new high-horsepower engines meeting 
Tier  emissions standards for industrial, power 
generation and marine markets
Eighteen new midrange and heavy-duty engines 
for EPA ‘07, Euro IV and Tier  industrial markets
Six new midrange and heavy-duty engines for 
marine markets
Until the Euro IV and EPA 007 emissions standards, 
Cummins engines have achieved NOx and PM 
reductions using in-cylinder and cooled EGR 
technologies.  For the U. S. on-highway truck 
market, Cummins has been the leader in the 
application of cooled EGR technology. During 
combustion, EGR reduces flame temperatures, 
which, in turn, reduces NOx production.  This 
allows the engine to be tuned for the best fuel 
economy and performance at lower NOx levels. 
EGR technology is the foundation for Cummins 007 
products and beyond. 
 
In Europe, Cummins meets the Euro IV on-highway 
emissions standards, which became effective 
in October 005, by using Selective Catalytic 
Reduction (SCR) aftertreatment.  SCR uses urea  •
•
•in a chemical reaction to reduce NOx in the exhaust.  
Manufacturers have developed this technology 
for the European market because it is the most 
cost-effective trade-off when considering emission 
control and fuel economy. Cummins expects to use 
a relatively simple evolution of this technology to 
meet the more stringent Euro V standards that take 
effect October 008.  Cummins Emission Solutions 
is producing SCR systems in the United Kingdom 
and South Africa to enable its European medium- 
and heavy-duty vehicle customers to meet Euro IV 
and V emission levels.
Our EPA 007 engines will use the Cummins 
Particulate Filter (a diesel oxidation catalyst and 
diesel particulate filter) to meet the new emissions 
standards.  The Cummins Particulate Filter will 
achieve a 90 percent reduction in PM compared to 
004 levels.  All North American engines produced 
in 007 and beyond must meet a .01 gram PM 
standard, which represents a virtual elimination  
of this pollutant from the emissions mix.   Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions
Carbon Monoxide (CO) in tons
01MilMilMil4Mil5Mil6Mil7Mil8Mil
005 004 00
000k400k600k800k1000k100k
005 004 00050k100k150k00k50k
005 004 00
Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) in tonsTotal Automotive Useful Life Emissions
Hydrocarbons (HC) in tons
EPA Allowe d
Cummins Pr oducedEnvironment and Safety   4  Cummins also supports biodiesel use. B5 
biodiesel (5 percent pure biodiesel with 95 percent 
standard petroleum diesel) is suitable for the full 
range of current automotive engines in North 
America. Cummins is evaluating the potential for 
concentrations of biodiesel higher than 5 percent.   
Cummins Emission Solutions currently has the 
only particulate filter verified for retrofit use with 
biodiesel blended with ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel, 
which became the standard for heavy-duty trucks 
in the U.S. in October 006. A number of Cummins 
customers have successfully operated their retrofit 
devices with biodiesel blends.
Emission Regulations and Cummins 
Product Goals
Since the 1970s, Cummins on-highway engines 
have been regulated by the EPA and similar 
regulatory agencies around the world for 
combustion emissions, including NOx, carbon 
monoxide (CO), hydrocarbons (HC) and PM,  
also known as soot.Cummins works closely with regulatory bodies 
to seek aggressive, but technologically feasible, 
emission reductions that also allow us to continue  
to make products that meet the exacting needs of 
our customers. 
When compared to emissions from unregulated 
engines -- i.e. before EPA standards became 
effective in 197 -- today’s on-highway diesel 
engines emit 90 percent less PM and nearly 90 
percent less NOx.  Cummins and other engine-
makers are required by the end of the decade to 
further reduce PM and NOx to levels 99 percent 
lower than the unregulated levels.  
Off-highway engines produced by Cummins also 
are subject to stringent emission standards. While 
the combustion process for off-highway engines 
is fundamentally the same as for on-highway 
engines, the emission control strategies are not 
interchangeable because of the broad horsepower 
range, unique applications and the wide variety of 
duty cycles typical of off-highway products.  010k0k0k40k50k
005 004 00Total Automotive Useful Life Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM) in tons050k100k150k00k
005 004 00Engine Volumes
Midrange (-9 liters)
Heavy Duty (10-15 liters)44   Environment and SafetyBetween 1995 and 006, off-highway engine 
emissions for NOx and PM have been reduced by 
80 percent and 85 percent, respectively. And from 
010 to 014, off-highway engines will be controlled 
to essentially the same level of emissions as their 
on-highway engine counterparts. By 014, NOx and 
PM emissions from off-highway engines will be 98 
percent lower than they were in 1995. 
The charts on the previous pages and above 
depict Cummins’ commitment to the environment 
by demonstrating that the Company’s engines 
often exceed emission standards. The on-road 
charts compare the estimated maximum allowable 
emissions by EPA standards versus Cummins’ 
estimate of its engines’ actual emissions for the 
past three years.  Estimates are based on the 
number of engines, both heavy-duty and midrange, 
manufactured in the United States for on-highway 
use per year. 
Cummins engines have released far less 
hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide into the 
environment than the maximum allowed by the EPA.  And even by the tough NOx and PM measures, 
Cummins has been under the standards.  
The figures in the non-road charts are based on 
the number of midrange, heavy-duty, and high 
horsepower engines produced for regulated markets 
worldwide.  As with Cummins on-road engines, 
these non-road engines release far less HC and CO 
into the environment than the maximum allowed by 
regulatory agencies.  Likewise, NOx and PM actual 
emission levels are under the applicable standards.  
Cummins also participates in a regulatory 
program called Averaging, Banking and Trading 
(ABT).  This program allows emission credits to 
be generated and “banked” by a company whose 
products generate emissions that are lower than 
the regulated level. These banked credits may 
be applied to other engines whose emissions are 
higher than the standard.  However, some credits 
are discounted by a certain percentage depending 
on engine type and ABT program rules.  As a 
result of this discounting process, a portion of the 
emissions credits go unused by the Company, and 
are thus an additional benefit to the environment.  05k10k15k0k5k
005 0040100k00k00k400k500k600k
005 004Total Non-road Useful Life Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM) in tonsTotal Non-road Useful Life Emissions Nitrogen  
Oxides + Hydrocarbons (NOx + HC) in tons
Regulator y Agency Allowe d
Cummins Pr oducedEnvironment and Safety   45  The 2007/2010 EPA Emissions  
and Fuel Rule
Looking ahead to 007-010, emission 
requirements will change dramatically for heavy-
duty trucks over this period. Both NOx and PM will 
be reduced by 90 percent from 004 levels. 
The EPA will allow for a NOx phase-in from 007 
through 009. During this time, 50 percent of the 
engines produced must meet the stricter, 007 NOx 
standard, while 50 percent may continue to meet 
the 004 standard. 
The PM requirement is not phased in, and thus all 
engine production is required to be in compliance 
with the new standard beginning in January 007. 
By 010 all heavy-duty diesel engines are 
expected to meet the NOx standard of 0.0 grams 
per brake-horsepower hour (g/bhp-hr) and the PM 
standard of 0.01g/bhp-hr.
Also by 010, regulations will require the phase-in 
of advanced on-board diagnostics with additional sensors to monitor the effectiveness of emission-
control systems on the engine, which will alert the 
driver if a failed emission-reduction device needs to  
be repaired.
Ultra-Low Sulfur Diesel Fuel
In addition to the new exhaust emission standards 
and in support of them, the EPA is lowering the 
limit for diesel sulfur fuel from 500 parts per million 
(ppm) to 15 ppm.  The new fuel standard began to 
be phased in October 006 and will be completed 
by September 1, 010 (100 percent participation).  
Cummins has publicly expressed its support of 
ultra-low sulfur fuel. ULSD has several benefits.  It 
produces less particulate matter from combustion, 
so it is a particulate matter control strategy for all 
equipment in use.  In addition, ultra-low sulfur  
fuel enables the use of advanced aftertreatment 
control systems.
Aftertreatment Solutions
While cooled EGR is an “in-cylinder” technology that 
can reduce NOx, there are several aftertreatment 0100k00k00k400k500k
005 00405k10k15k0k5k0k5k
005 004Total Non-road Useful Life Emissions
Carbon Monoxide (CO) in tonsEngine Volumes
MidRange (-9 liters)
Heavy Duty (10-15 liters )
High Horsepower (19-78 liters)46   Environment and Safetysolutions that can achieve reduced NOx levels by 
treating the exhaust gases after they leave the
engine. These include SCR and NOx catalysts. As 
noted above, our heavy-duty strategy is to use 
EGR to achieve NOx reduction.  NOx aftertreatment 
devices are being considered for 010 when the 
0.0 g/bhp-hr Nox standard becomes effective.
While previous reductions in PM emissions have 
been achieved through engine combustion 
improvements and oxidation catalysts, the stringent 
007 particulate standards requires the use of  very 
effective particulate aftertreatment. A typical filter 
consists of an array of small channels through which 
exhaust gas flows. Adjacent channels are plugged 
at opposite ends, forcing the exhaust gas to flow 
through the porous wall, capturing the soot particles 
on the surface and inside pores of the media. Soot 
accumulates in the filter, and when sufficient heat is 
present a “regeneration” event occurs, oxidizing the 
soot and cleaning the filter.Aftermarket: Emission Solutions 
Cummins has leveraged its research, product 
development and technology expertise to  
create businesses such as Emission Solutions.  
This Components Group business is a market-
leading global designer, manufacturer and 
distributor of exhaust aftertreatment systems and 
devices for the on and off highway medium duty, 
heavy duty and high horsepower engine markets.  
With key operations in Indiana, Wisconsin, the 
United Kingdom and South Africa, Cummins 
Emission Solutions products serve both OEM  
and retrofit customers.
Emission Solutions specializes in exhaust 
products and systems for diesel engines (9-
7,000 horsepower). Emission Solutions offers 
exhaust aftertreatment systems that control 
harmful emissions such as CO, HC, NOx and PM. 
Emission Solutions products reduce PM and NOx 
to 99 percent less than unregulated levels.  With 
retrofit and first-fit options, Emission Solutions has 
integrated service solutions to help customers 
understand local air quality regulations and U.S. On-Highway Emission Standards
0510150
015 010 005 000 1995 1990 1985 1980 1975 19700.00.51.01.5.0 PM (g/kWh )
NOx (g/kWh )
Standa rds
Estimated un regulated emissionsEnvironment and Safety   47  identify sources of funding for specific emission 
reduction  efforts. Cummins Emission Solutions 
has established a leadership position in the North 
American school and urban bus markets with its 
retrofit and “neofit” aftertreatment products.  
Cummins Filtration and the Environment
As the global leader in providing filtration, exhaust, 
coolant and chemical technology for diesel and 
gas-powered equipment worldwide, Cummins 
Filtration takes its environmental responsibility 
seriously.  With more than 00 active global patents 
for innovative technology, Cummins Filtration 
continues to provide environmental leadership 
by designing products for the future that extend 
service life, lower emissions and eliminate harmful 
toxins.  Cummins Filtration products continually 
meet or exceed global emissions and noise 
regulations, reduce disposal issues and support 
extended maintenance. 
The Company has developed a specific line of 
environmentally safer products to ensure:Reduced environmental impact
Lower operating costs and increased  
vehicle uptime
Excellent performance 
To achieve these results, Cummins Filtration offers 
an integrated system approach for equipment 
maintenance with environmentally friendly product 
choices for all major engine systems. This stable of 
green products includes the following state-of-the-
art technologies:
Open Crankcase Ventilation
The Fleetguard line of Open Crankcase Ventilation 
meets global emission standards for 007 and 
protects the environment by: 
Reducing blow-by oil emissions to the 
atmosphere by more than 65 percent
Lowering PM emissions
Reducing oily residues on the back of vehicles
Reducing oil drip by 99 percent, eliminating 
oil dripping onto roads, crops, bodies of water, 
garages and driveways•
•
•
•
•
•
•U.S. Non-Road Emission Standards
0510150
015 010 005 000 1995 1990 1985 1980 1975 19700.00.51.01.5.0 PM (g/kWh )
NOx (g/kWh )
Standa rds
Estimated un regulated emissions48   Environment and SafetyReducing oil waste and clean-up costs
Minimizing engine downtime and lowering 
maintenance costs
User-Friendly Filter™ 
(see sidebar story for more information)
The innovative User-Friendly Filter provides a 
green alternative to conventional spin-on filtration 
technology.  The product uses no steel or adhesives 
and is comprised of advanced polymers, making it 
more dent-resistant than metals.  Other features that 
enhance environmental protection include:
 Flat bottom to eliminate oil spills
 Rugged, corrosion-free design 
 50 percent less weight
 Environmentally friendly disposal options
No paint or adhesive is needed
Industrial Pro™ Diesel Fuel Filtration 
The FH4 Series Industrial Pro™ diesel fuel 
filtration system is standard on all Cummins 007 
high-horsepower engines.  The all-in-one fuel filter, 
fuel/water separator and fuel heater combines 
EleMax™ filter technology and multi-layered 
StrataPore™ media to provide higher fuel/water •
•
•
•
•
•
•separation efficiency over time and reduced 
restriction to flow. Other outstanding features and 
benefits include: 
5-minute maintenance with self-priming port 
Clear cover showing users when NOT to  
change filter
Seeing is Believing® patented technology with 
superior water and contaminant removal
Sea Pro® Marine Diesel Fuel Processor
The FH4 Series Sea Pro® 5 diesel fuel processor 
is standard on all Cummins 007 Tier II marine 
engines and may be used on other manufacturers’ 
new and existing engines.  Sea Pro® 5 includes 
fuel filtration, fuel/water separation, water-in-fuel 
sensors, and proprietary StrataPore™ media.  Its 
unique features provide competitive benefits while 
protecting the environment with:
Remote mount design allows 5-minute, no-mess 
filter change 
Highly durable, corrosion-resistant shell
Superior fuel/water separation and  
reduced restriction
Longer service intervals with three times the life of 
conventional similar sized cellulose filters•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Cummins filters help reduce the environmental 
impact of engine emissions.Cummins set out in 00 to design a completely 
new filtration product, one that was better for the 
environment and more serviceable for the customer.  
Cummins historically has led the market with 
creative filtration products.  But this time we literally 
broke the mold.
Traditional filters are housed in steel. They hold up 
well, but at the end of their life they prove difficult 
to recycle and generally are sent to landfills.  
Landfill space conservation is an important issue 
worldwide, and space is especially scarce  
in Europe. 
What if we could make a filter out of something 
that would be easier to recycle or be burned for 
heat recovery at the end of its life, creating energy 
instead of taking up space? One answer was to 
look at plastic.
Initially, engineers were resistant. Plastic had 
never been used before. Could it be made strong 
enough? Would it be seen as evidence of poor 
quality? An outside engineering design firm hired 
for its unbiased view helped us see the idea with fresh eyes. Cummins also talked with employees 
and customers around the world about product 
ideas, preferences and concerns. 
The outcome was a filter with significantly less 
environmental impact than a steel filter; requiring 
a third less in material cost and presenting 
unprecedented design serviceability for customers, 
including ribbed “grips” for easy installation. The 
User-Friendly Filter, introduced in February 006, 
is now selling ahead of projections.  And there 
is significant additional environmental benefit 
going forward.  One of the key considerations for 
development of the plastic filter is that it does not 
need to be painted.   Cummins expects it could 
replace 1. million filters in 007 with User-Friendly 
Filters, saving 700 gallons of paint annually 
and an associated reduction in volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs) of ,450 pounds.  In addition, 
the paper filter media has been reformulated for this 
product line, with a new “no cure” plant process 
that further reduces VOCs by an additional 8,77 
pounds.  Lastly, eliminating plastisol adhesive in 
approximately . million plastic and metal filters 
could reduce another  ,416 pounds of VOCs.The User-Friendly Filter – A Sustainability Success Story
49  50   Environment and SafetyGoing Beyond Requirements in  
Other Countries 
Cummins meets or exceeds emission regulations 
in every country that it operates.  In South Africa, 
where there are no emission regulations for existing 
types, Cummins sells EPA certified 1998/1999 
engines.  Standards in South Africa commence in 
010.  Similarly, in Taiwan, emissions regulations 
require EPA 1994 standards, yet Cummins sells EPA 
1999 certified engines.  In Mexico, the Company 
sells EPA 004 certified engines, although the law 
requires EPA 1999 certified engines.
Cummins has worked closely with the Chinese 
government and original equipment manufacturers 
to introduce “green engines” to China.  Cummins is 
committed to bringing in advanced, low-emission 
environmental products to Chinese customers 
concurrently with international markets, including 
the United States and Europe. Cummins and its 
joint venture partner Dongfeng Automotive started 
limited production of Euro III diesels in late 006 
with volume production slated for the  
 second quarter of 007, in advance of the Chinese 
Government’s requirements to produce Euro III 
engines beginning in 008. 
Cummins has a history of being a “green leader” In 
China.  Cummins was the first foreign diesel maker to 
power the large-scale Euro II transit fleet in 1999 in 
south China’s Shenzhen City, two years before China 
implemented the Euro I standards. Currently, more 
than 10,000 Cummins Euro III diesels power transit 
buses and coaches across the country, making 
Cummins the top Euro III diesel supplier in China.
Although China does not currently have a 
nationwide emission standard for off-road 
equipment, Cummins has been working closely 
with local OEMs to introduce emission-compliant 
industrial engines at the same time as the European 
and U.S. markets. All of the imported engines we 
sell for China’s construction market are either Tier  
or  compliant, with local production moving to Tier 
 already.  In addition, Cummins’ Chinese engineers 
are helping the local EPA draft the first generation of 
China’s off-road emission standards.Cummins has a history of being a “green leader” in China.In October, Cummins made two important 
announcements on opposite sides of the 
world regarding its plans to bring clean, high-
performance light-duty diesel engines to  
the market.
The Company announced plans to build a new 
family of light-duty clean diesel engines at its 
flagship engine facility in Columbus, Indiana. 
DaimlerChrysler will be the first major customer for 
these engines, which will be in production no later 
than 010. 
Cummins will invest more than $50 million in this 
engine family, which is the result of a nine-year 
partnership between Cummins and the Department 
of Energy. The engines will meet the most stringent 
emissions standards in the world and will result in 
at least a 0 percent improvement in fuel efficiency 
over comparable gasoline engines.
A week later, Cummins executives were on 
hand in Beijing for the signing of a joint venture 
agreement with Beiqi Foton Motor Company to 
produce .8-liter and .8-liter engines for the light-duty automotive market in China and elsewhere. 
Initially, the engines primarily will be used in light 
commercial pickups and SUVs, and will, at a 
minimum, meet Euro IV emissions standards when 
production begins in 008.
These announcements represent Cummins’ entry 
into the light-duty diesel market and are consistent 
with the Company’s strategic goal of growing in 
related markets. They also dovetail with our belief 
that clean diesel technology can play a significant 
role in decreasing our dependence on fossil fuels 
and bolster our commitment to contributing to a 
cleaner environment.
Light-duty engines announced for U.S. and Chinese markets
  51  5   Environment and SafetyIn the November Bauma Expo in Shanghai, 
Cummins showcased its full solution of Tier   
off-road engines from 1.7-L to 15-L for  
Chinese customers.
Cummins is pursuing low-emission and high-
efficiency power generation solutions in China. 
Following the first Cummins Power Generation 
gas combined heat and power project (CHP) in 
a Shanghai sports center in 005, which is an 
efficient producer of both heat and electricity for 
the recreational facility, this environmental power 
solution has been applied to customer facilities in 
Beijing, Wuxi and Chengdu in 006.
Recycling Cummins Products
The Company’s environmental focus extends 
beyond a product’s initial useful life.  Nearly 
all Cummins engines are candidates for 
remanufacturing.  Today, we remanufacture some 
of our smallest engines (such as the 4B) up to 
the high-horsepower K19 engine.  Cummins 
also remanufactures and recycles engine blocks, 
crankshafts, cylinder heads, turbochargers, water, oil and fuel pumps, fuel injectors, aftercoolers,  
oil coolers, rocker housings, connecting rods and 
other parts through its reconditioning initiatives. 
In 005, Cummins Parts and Service recaptured 
about ,000 metric tons of used “core” material.  
More than 99 percent of this material is reused or 
recycled, either by Cummins directly or by recyclers 
to whom Cummins has sold scrapped materials. 
Our remanufacturing division is working with the 
new product design teams to ensure that the 
next generation of products eventually can be 
remanufactured.  This includes analysis and testing 
of products in the remanufactured configuration. 
The remanufacturing technology team and 
salvage development laboratories in the plants 
work intimately with corporate technical centers 
to develop new methods to recover core material.  
This includes methods to clean, inspect and 
refurbish components.  
Engine Innovations Beyond Diesel Power 
Cummins is part of a joint venture with Westport 
Innovations Inc., a leading developer of 
This diesel and electric hybrid serves Indianapolis, Indiana.Environment and Safety   5  technologies that allow engines to operate on 
natural gas, hydrogen and hydrogen-enriched 
natural gas.  Cummins Westport (CWI) develops 
and markets the world’s widest range of high-
performance, low-emission engines for commercial 
applications, such as trucks and buses.  CWI has 
five mid-range engines in commercial production 
today: the L Gas Plus, C Gas Plus, B Gas Plus, B 
LPG Plus and BGI. 
About 1,500 C Gas Plus engines are in service  
in transit buses for major U.S. fleets, including 
Boston, Washington, D.C., Atlanta, Fort Worth, 
Phoenix, San Diego, Los Angeles, Sacramento, 
San Bernardino, Calif. and Tacoma, Wash. The C 
Gas Plus also is used in larger school buses, larger 
airport shuttle buses and truck applications such as 
refuse collection. 
 
The largest customer for B5.9G engines is Beijing 
Public Transportation Corp., which acquired more 
than ,000 of these engines for transit buses.
 
In February 005, CWI announced plans to 
commercialize a new engine for medium-duty truck, refuse and urban transit markets. Scheduled 
for commercial launch in 007, the ISL G will be 
introduced three years ahead of the EPA emissions 
deadline. It will surpass EPA and CARB 007 phase-
in levels and meet 010 emission standards of  
0. g/bhp-hr NOx and 0.01 g/bhp-hr PM at  
launch in 007. 
Supporting Independent Health Research
In the early 1980s, Cummins anticipated the need 
for sound, independent research on the health 
effects of mobile source emissions.  In response 
to that need, the Company – together with the EPA 
– was instrumental in chartering the Health Effects 
Institute (www.healtheffects.org), which provides 
unbiased information on the health effects of motor 
vehicle emissions.  This institution receives equal 
funding from the EPA and the motor vehicle industry.  
Today, Cummins continues to support this important 
work, even as exhaust emissions have improved 
considerably since the Institute was established.  
In addition, Cummins supports various efforts at 
renowned research institutions that focus on the 
health effects of mobile source emissions.We recaptured ,000 metric tons of used “core” engine  
material in 00554   Environment and SafetyCummins Distributors 
Cummins West, a Cummins distributor in California, 
is participating in a project with the U.S. EPA and 
the Sacramento Air District to dramatically reduce 
the emissions from the large generators used to 
supply “hotelling power” on the locomotives that 
operate on two Northern California commuter rail 
lines.  The locomotives used by these rail lines 
have large generators, or Head End Power (HEP), 
that supply power for heating, air conditioning, 
lighting, cafeteria operations and passenger power 
requirements for small appliances such as laptop 
computers.  These large generators produce 
approximately one third of the total emissions from 
the locomotive.
In a demonstration program scheduled for 
completion by mid-007, Cummins West will 
replace two of the existing non-Cummins engines 
with Tier  Cummins QSX engines fitted with 
Cleaire exhaust purification retrofit devices that 
reduce PM, NOx, Hydrocarbons and Carbon 
Monoxide. PM emissions will drop from 0.4g/bhp-
hr to approximately 0.0, a 95 percent reduction.  NOx emissions will drop from around 6g/bhp-hr 
to around , more than 50 percent.  In addition to 
the re-powering plus retrofitting project, Cummins 
West application engineers worked with Caltrans to 
develop an automatic shut-down system for the  
HEP units that should reduce their total operating 
hours by more than 0 percent, further reducing 
HEP emissions.  
Cleaire, a division of Cummins West,  has installed 
more than ,500 NOx plus PM retrofit systems in 
on-road heavy-duty vehicles such as transit buses, 
refuse trucks, regional delivery trucks, local delivery 
trucks and some school buses and public works 
vehicles operated by government and utility fleets.  
It also has held demonstrations of this technology  
in off-road construction equipment.  
Counsel in Developing Products and 
Meeting Standards 
In developing products to meet various standards, 
as well as the demands of its customers, Cummins 
seeks advice and counsel from its Science and 
Technology Advisory Council and the Technology Retrofit exhaust purification products are scheduled to be tested  
on a California locomotive generator next year Environment and Safety   55  and Environment Committee of its Board  
of Directors.
Cummins Science & Technology Advisory Council, 
formed in 199, has given the Company access to 
some of the country’s leading scientific thinkers and 
policymakers from the worlds of academia, industry 
and government. 
The Cummins Science and Technology Advisory 
Council members regularly discuss the future 
of the internal combustion engine and the use 
of alternative power sources.  As an example, 
Cummins already has pursued alternative energy 
options, including clean natural gas bus engines 
and power generation units that harness waste 
gases such as methane available in landfills. 
The Cummins Science and Technology Advisory 
Council members are: 
Dr. John M. Deutch (Chairman) 
Institute Professor at Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, former Provost and Dean of Science at 
MIT, CIA Director and Assistant Secretary DOE.Dr. Harold Brown, Counselor 
Center for Strategic and International Studies, 
retired Cummins Director, former Secretary of 
Defense and President of CalTech.
Dr. George M. Whitesides 
Mallinckrodt Professor of Chemistry at  
Harvard University.
Dr. Michael Oppenheimer 
Albert G. Milbank Professor of Geosciences and 
International Affairs at Princeton University and 
Director of the Program in Science, Technology and 
Environmental Policy at the Woodrow Wilson School.
Dr. Ernest Moniz 
Professor of Physics at the Massachusetts  
Institute of Technology.
Dr. Anita K. Jones 
Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering and 
Applied Science at the University of Virginia and 
Vice Chair of the National Science Foundation.56   Environment and SafetyDr. Sophie V. Vandebroek 
Chief Technical Officer and President, Xerox 
Innovation Group for Xerox Corporation, Stamford, 
Connecticut.  Fellow of the Institute of Electrical & 
Electronics Engineers and served as an elected 
member on the IEEE Administrative Committee. 
Fulbright Fellow and a Fellow of the Belgian-
American Educational Foundation.
Dr. Gerald L. Wilson 
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Mechanical 
Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
formerly Dean of Engineering at MIT.
The Technology and Environment Committee 
of the Cummins Board of Directors advises top 
management and the technical leadership of 
Cummins regarding:Technology strategy and planning
Significant research and technology projects  
and tools
Major new product programs
Environmental policy and strategy within the public 
arena as well maintaining as an internal action plan
Its membership includes the following Directors: 
John M. Deutch, Chair, Alexis M. Herman,  
Georgia R. Nelson, William I. Miller and Carl Ware.
The committee also encourages collaboration 
between Cummins and the external technical 
and environmental community and reviews the 
technology plans of the Company.•
•
•
•We help our customers manage their emissions through 
management of engine idle, cruise control and speed.  Cummins’ efforts to reduce carbon intensity 
encompass both our products and our 
manufacturing operations.  
Helping Customers Manage Their  
Carbon Emissions
Engines
Cummins has numerous initiatives in this area, 
with key ones focused on the management of 
automotive heavy-duty engine idle, cruise control 
and speed. Idle management features supported 
within the  Electronic Control Modules (ECMs)  of 
our engines can help our customers reduce fuel 
consumption by shutting off the engine after a 
specified amount of time at idle  or allowing the 
fleet manager/owner to make decisions about 
“rewarding” drivers with slightly more cruise control 
maximum set speed if they have minimized their 
idle time.  Customers can allow a driver a little more 
speed but retain a positive balance on fuel saved 
- and fuel saved is fuel not burned and therefore less 
carbon released.The second aspect of reducing/managing the 
carbon risks involves our fuel economy features.  
We have a long list of features within our ECMs 
that are specifically designed to help customers 
minimize the amount of fuel they burn.  Again, this 
ultimately becomes a means of minimizing carbon.  
 Some of these features are:
Road Speed and Cruise Control Governor
The feature limits the maximum vehicle speed with 
the driver’s foot on and off  the throttle.  Power 
required, and therefore fuel burned, is directly 
proportional to vehicle speed.
Smart Torque
By allowing high torque in the top two gears, you 
can minimize the number of down shifts required 
to maintain speed on the highway. By avoiding a 
downshift, overall engine speed is lowered and a 
lower engine speed generally equates to less  
fuel burned.Managing Carbon Intensity
   57  In addition to these “active” features, Cummins 
engines also have a number of “information 
features” where “trip” or “duty cycle” information is 
stored.  By reviewing these data, a fleet manager 
can look for variations between drivers or trucks, 
look for trends and use the data for driver coaching 
or to schedule maintenance.  
Power Generation
ComfortGuard APU
A typical long-haul truck spends an average of 
,000 hours a year idling with the base engine 
fuel consumption of one gallon per hour at idle.  
A product developed by our Power Generation 
business, the Cummins ComfortGuard Auxiliary 
Power Unit (APU), mounts to the frame of the tractor 
and can provide heating and air conditioning while 
using only about 0. gallons of fuel per hour. 
In addition, the APU can keep the main engine 
heated in cold ambient conditions so it will start 
when needed.  All of these requirements can be 
achieved with the APU as an alternative to running 
the main engine.  Use of the APU can reduce the fuel consumption of a typical long-haul truck fleet by 
1,600 gallons of diesel fuel per truck each year.
Combined Heat and Power Applications 
Cogeneration, or Combined Heat and Power (CHP), 
is the production of two kinds of energy -- usually 
electricity and heat -- from a single source of fuel. 
Cogeneration can replace the traditional method 
of supplying energy from multiple sources, e.g., 
purchasing electricity from the power grid and 
burning natural gas or oil separately in a furnace  
to produce heat or steam. These methods can 
waste up to two-thirds of the energy in the original 
fuel – losses that translate into high utility rates.
Cummins Power Generation has installed numerous 
CHP systems.  One of the most recent and unusual 
applications is a 1.5 Megawatt system at a tomato 
greenhouse in Belgium.  It  uses the waste exhaust 
and engine coolant energy to heat the greenhouse, 
CO in the exhaust for plant food, and the excess 
electricity is sold. The benefits include a reduction 
in CO (greenhouse gases) versus traditional 
electric power plants.
58   
The ComfortGuard auxiliary power unit helps trucks save fuel.Biogas
A team from Cummins Power Generation partnered 
with Earth University in Costa Rica to develop a 
system that uses animal manure as a fuel source 
to generate electricity for the campus. The 
system works by processing pig and cow manure 
through a biological digester that separates the 
methane gas into an enclosed chamber. The gas 
is then consumed by an adapted Cummins Power 
Generation generator set, powered by a Cummins 
B series 5.9 natural gas engine. The unit is a 40Kw 
system, capable of powering critical operations on 
the campus. 
The biodigester system filters water drainage 
from farm operations to prevent pollution and 
contamination. The digester and power generation 
system provide an additional benefit to the 
environment by consuming the naturally produced 
methane, a greenhouse gas. Methane has over 0 
times the global warming potential of carbon dioxide. Emission Reduction in Cummins Facilities
From a facilities GHG emissions perspective, 
Cummins’ improvement efforts are focused on 
efficiencies associated with the energy used to 
operate our facilities and power our manufacturing 
processes.  These projects have ranged from 
energy efficient lighting and compressor efficiency 
endeavors to installation of Cummins turbine 
products that energize a combined heat and 
power system.  Cummins has initiated a number 
of process improvements and quality initiatives 
at its manufacturing and test facilities to improve 
the quality of our products, while at the same time, 
reducing associated emissions from those facilities.
Engine Testing
Cummins is working to reduce energy consumption, 
lower pollution levels and reduce costs through 
initiatives to reduce engine testing in product 
development and in manufacturing. These 
initiatives encompass design, the verification of 
manufacturing quality and the advanced diesel 
 59  An administrator at Earth University at the  
opening of the biogas project in Costa Rica.engine quality verification process. Some of those 
initiatives are detailed below.
Analysis-Led Design
Cummins has applied Six Sigma disciplines and 
processes in our product design and technology 
development areas to ensure we are designing 
components and systems that will be robust in  
the manufacturing environment. The analytical  
tools being used are part of our analysis-led  
design initiative. 
In analysis-led design, computer simulations 
replace traditional hardware testing, which involves 
building and testing many expensive prototypes.  
Instead, a “virtual engine” is built and then tested 
in a computer simulation which allows us to look at 
more designs in a shorter time.   
In analysis-led design, computer simulations 
replace traditional hardware testing, which involves 
building and testing many expensive prototypes.  
Instead, a “virtual engine” is built and then tested 
in a computer simulation, which allows us to look at more designs in a shorter time.  Using analysis-
led design on our most recent product launches 
has allowed us to increase the number of analysis 
hours by as much as 00 percent while cutting 
total program costs by more than 0 percent.  In 
one engine family alone, more than 10,000 hours 
of testing was avoided – along with the prototypes 
that go along with it.  The process yields better 
designs faster, at a lower cost and with substantial 
reductions in test cell time and the fuel use and its 
associated emissions
Verification of Manufacturing Quality
Engine attribute testing requirements have been 
reduced on certain product lines because in-
process verification allows the identification of 
potential problems upstream of the test cell process.  
This product quality initiative promotes the concept 
of “Right First Time,” a more effective means to 
test a component and engine system, with an 
associated environmental benefit.
60   Normalized Emissions versus Revenue
$5B$5.5B$6B$6.5B$7B$7.5B$8B$8.5B$9B$9.5B$10B
450k495k540k585k60k675k70k765k810k855k900k
005 004 00 00 001 000Emissions (tCOe)
Adjusted Revenue (billions of 000 dollars )Our revenue has grown faster than our adjusted emissions, 
evidence we are a more efficient manufacturer.Advanced Diesel Engine  
Quality Verification
Cummins has used Technology Development for 
Six Sigma tools to develop the next generation 
of production diesel engine testing – Advanced 
Engine Functional Test (AEFT). The enabling 
technology for AEFT is the introduction of the 
new family of high-pressure common rail fuel 
systems. This advancement allows the engine to 
self-prime and thus removes the need for even the 
most rudimentary form of running engine test. As 
Cummins migrates to this fuel system technology, 
production facilities can introduce AEFT as the 
primary end-of-line test solution.
MidRange Engine Plant AEFT Initiative
The environmental impact of AEFT is best 
understood in the context of comparing the 
emissions from an existing test to its AEFT 
counterpart.  In the existing MidRange no-
load two-minute attribute test, for example, at 
current plant build levels, this attribute test uses 
approximately 4,000 gallons of fuel. In contrast, AEFT is projected to consume approximately 88 
gallons. This represents a 97 percent reduction 
in fuel consumption. As of the end of 006, three 
of the four AEFT test stands at the Columbus 
MidRange Plant are operational and the fourth is 
being installed. The existing Attribute Hot Test Stand 
decommissioning is planned for mid-007.  
Future AEFT Impact
Project development work has started incorporating 
AEFT into other engine programs. The new Light 
Duty Diesel will incorporate AEFT technology; 
plus it is also planned for the Beijing Foton 
Cummins  Engine Company joint venture in China. 
The same technology has been developed for 
testing turbochargers at Cummins Turbocharger 
Technologies.  The Heavy Duty team is evaluating 
the technology for the engines built at the 
Jamestown Engine Plant as a means of increasing 
the efficiency in their Hot Test process, thereby 
reducing fuel consumption at this location as well.
  61  Former U.S. Vice President Al Gore spoke at the 
September 006 launch of Carbon Disclosure 
Project in New York City, challenging investors 
and corporations to turn climate change from a 
risk to an opportunity.  “Sustainable development 
will be the driver of industrial and economic 
change over the next 50 years,” said Gore.  
Cummins participated in CDP4.6   Environment and SafetyPerformance Indicators: Facilities
Environmental Policy 
Cummins’ commitment to being a good corporate 
citizen is realized in many forms, including 
protecting our employees and the environment. Yet, 
doing our part to promote a healthy environment 
goes beyond producing the cleanest possible 
products. Our facilities have a large role to play in 
helping create a safe and sustainable environment 
for today and in the future. Minimizing workplace 
injuries, reducing facility emissions and waste and 
conserving natural resources are fundamental to 
our commitment to the communities in which we 
work and live. These efforts also have a direct 
positive impact on the profitability of our business.   
The Safety and Environmental Council promotes 
environmental health and safety initiatives through 
the development and implementation of our ISO 
14001 certified Environmental Management System 
and the Cummins Safety System. The framework 
for the environmental and the safety management 
systems was built upon the Corporate Health Safety 
and Environmental Policy.  This policy statement acknowledges the importance 
of protecting the environment and conserving 
our natural resources, and includes our formal 
commitment to the long-term sustainability of 
our operations. Consistent with our policy and 
our pursuit of environmental sustainability, our 
efforts to establish and achieve measurable 
environmental objectives and targets ensure that 
we are continually improving our environmental 
performance. 
As we continue to diligently meet our regulatory 
obligations, we also will persist in our efforts to 
identify opportunities for improvement and to 
reduce the environmental impacts of our operations. 
Safety and Environmental Council 
Cummins Corporate Health, Safety and 
Environmental (HSE) Council includes the 
manufacturing, safety and environmental leaders 
from across the Company’s seven business units 
and from the corporate staff.  The Council meets 
quarterly and is responsible for building a best-in-
class safety and environmental organization across Environment and Safety   6  Cummins worldwide entities. The group develops, 
reviews and recommends improvement initiatives  
at all levels of the organization, with the goal  
of minimizing the global impact of the  
Company’s operations.  
Among these initiatives are a focus on facility 
registration to the ISO 14001 standard, deployment 
of the Enterprise Environmental Management 
System, functional excellence development through 
an auditor certification program and environmental 
training programs. The Council also is the forum 
where company–wide objectives and targets are 
established.  In 006 and into the future, the Council 
will focus its efforts in the reduction of greenhouse 
gas emissions to support achievement of the GHG 
reduction goal set through the EPA Climate  
Leaders Program. 
ISO 14001 Registrations
Cummins is committed to using ISO 14001 as a 
means of effective environmental management as 
the Company strives to become a world leader 
among manufacturers in protecting the environment.Corporate-level procedures were developed and 
incorporated within the Cummins Health, Safety 
and Environmental Management System (HSEMS) 
to serve as a framework for the organization’s 
conformance to the ISO 14001 Standard.   A 
key component of the HSEMS framework is a 
worldwide “enterprise” approach to ISO 14001 
registration.  This global, single registration includes 
a centralized management review process that 
captures key environmental performance data for 
analysis at the Business Unit and Corporate levels.
The process allows Cummins to identify superior 
environmental management programs within 
the organization and implement those programs 
worldwide. The enterprise, which supports the 
Safety and Environmental Policy, provides the 
platform for setting environmental improvement 
objectives and ongoing monitoring of our 
environmental performance.  The enterprise 
approach also is a cost-effective way for Cummins 
sites around the world to obtain and maintain their 
ISO 14001 registration.Environmental Management System Registrations to ISO 14001  
and Sustainability Reporting Facilities
Site Reg. YearSustainability  
ReporterLocation Business Segment
Cummins - Daventry Engine Plant 001 X UK Engine
Cummins Filtration – Quimper 001 X France Components
Cummins Turbo Tech. – Huddersfield 001 X UK Components
Cummins - Darlington Engine Plant 00 X UK Engine
Emissions Solutions  – Mineral Point 001 X USA Components
Cummins - SLP 00 X Mexico Engine
Cummins Filtration – Viroqua 00 X USA Components
Cummins Filtration – Arcadia 00 X USA Components
Cummins Filtration – Wautoma 00 X USA Components64   Environment and SafetyCummins Industrial Center/Cummins 
Komatsu Engine Co.00 X USA Engine
Cummins Generator Tech. – Stamford 00 X UK Power Gen
Cummins Turbo Tech. – Charleston 00 X USA Components
Cummins Filtration – Neillsville West 00 X USA Components
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Co. Ltd/
Cummins Xiangfan Machinery Co. Ltd00 China Engine
Cummins Original Equipment 
Remanufacturing00 Canada Engine
Tata Cummins Limited 00 India Engine
Cummins - Fuel Systems Plant 00 X USA Components
Cummins Brazil Ltd. 00 X Brazil Engine
Cummins - Midrange Engine Plant 00 X USA Engine
Cummins Filtration – Lake Mills 00 X USA Components
Cummins Filtration – Black River Falls 00 X USA Components
Cummins - Corporate 00 NA Worldwide Corp
Cummins Filtration – Bloomer 00 X USA Components
Cummins Filtration – Neillsville East 00 X USA Components
Cummins Turbo Tech. - Tata 004 India Components
Kuss Corp 004 X USA Components
Cummins Turbo Tech. - Wuxi 004 China Components
Consolidated Diesel Company 004 X USA Engine
Cummins - Jamestown Engine Plant 004 X USA Engine
Cummins Power Gen – Fridley 004 X USA Power Gen
Fuel Systems  – Juárez/El Paso 004 X USA/
MexicoComponents
Cummins Generator Tech.  - SLP 005 X Mexico Power Gen
Cummins Filtration - SLP 005 X Mexico Components
Diesel ReCon - Memphis 005 X USA Engine
Cummins Power Gen - Kent 005 X UK Power Gen
Cummins Filtration - Brazil 006 Brazil Components
Cummins Filtration - Cookeville 006 X USA Components
Cummins - Columbus Engine Plant 006 X USA Engine
Cummins Power Gen Beijing X China Power Gen
Cummins Power Gen Singapore X Singapore Power Gen
Corporate Office Building X USA Corp.
Memphis Parts Distribution Center X USA Engine
Cummins Technical Center X USA Engine
 Sites shaded in grey  represent enterprise registrationsEnvironment and Safety   65  By the end of 006, Cummins will have 7 
manufacturing facilities and the corporate entity 
registered to the ISO 14001 Standard.  Of those,  
5 will be registered within the worldwide Cummins 
Enterprise registration. 
In 007, Cummins sites in the U.S., China, India, 
South Africa and Brazil will be added to those sites 
participating in the ISO 14001 Enterprise.  
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Cummins has pledged to reduce its corporate-wide 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as a percentage 
of net sales, by 5 percent by 010, against a base 
year of 005.  The Company will track greenhouse 
gas emissions at Cummins-managed facilities 
worldwide that contribute to the Company’s net 
sales. Historical energy and fuels use data indicate 
that Cummins achieved an absolute GHG emissions 
reduction of . percent in 005 versus the year 
000.  This equates to a 8 percent overall and a 0 
percent, inflation adjusted, GHG intensity reduction 
expressed in tons of COe (equivalents) per million 
dollars in net sales.Climate change management and greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions reductions are key strategic 
environmental initiatives at Cummins facilities.  Over 
the past several years, we have increased the 
number of entities reporting emissions and related 
data for compilation in this report.  The data also 
are used to identify areas of opportunity where 
we can leverage improvement initiatives around 
the worldwide organization.  Additional efforts 
have involved addressing worldwide variability in 
regulatory requirements and other inconsistencies 
that make the collection and assimilation of the 
data a challenge.  We are continually improving the 
reporting process to support the accurate reporting 
of comprehensive measures that represent impacts 
to the environment, both positive and negative.   
Reporting Scope
Cummins has been collecting environmental 
performance data selectively from its manufacturing 
facilities since 1999.  Expansion of the reporting 
effort encompasses each of the Cummins’ 
manufacturing divisions worldwide.8 Cummins manufacturing facilities and entities are registered to 
the ISO 14001 Standard66   Environment and SafetyCummins tracks a wide range of facility data to 
measure the potential environmental impacts 
of its operations. The data compiled for this 
report represent a substantial majority of 
Cummins’ manufacturing facilities, the corporate 
headquarters building and the larger non-
manufacturing facilities. Increases in the number 
of reporting facilities and the evolution of our 
data reporting and collection process has made 
trend analysis of our environmental measures a 
challenge.  Still, our many efforts that address 
waste minimization, energy efficiency and recycling 
provide significant and incremental contributions 
that ensure our environmental impacts  
are diminishing.  
For perspective on our areas of environmental 
focus, a general description of the manufacturing 
operations by business unit follows.
Engine 
Within the Cummins Engine Business, 
manufacturing facilities employees conduct 
product design, research and development, engine manufacturing and engine and component 
reconditioning.  Engine assembly facilities perform 
engine block and component machining, assembly, 
painting, alkaline bath parts washing and engine 
performance testing.  Product design and engine 
testing are the primary operations in the research 
and development technical centers where 
production processes are limited.
Engine testing is conducted in stationary test stands 
or cells, where product performance information 
is measured as engines run at various duty cycles.  
Test cells also are used for certification testing to 
ensure products meet emissions requirements. 
Rebuild/reconditioning facilities perform engine  
tear-down and reassembly, using alkaline parts  
washing processes. 
Components 
Cummins Components Group facility operations 
primarily involve filtration and exhaust product 
design, research and development, filter and 
exhaust component assembly, and product 
distribution and warehousing.  Emission Solutions Our goal is to reduce our GHG emissions intensity by 5 percent  
by 010Environment and Safety   67  designs and manufactures emission controls 
aftertreatment products.  In addition, the Cummins 
Turbo Technologies and Fuel Systems businesses 
are now incorporated within the newly organized 
Components Group.  Key operations conducted 
among the Components Business divisions include 
filter, fuel systems, turbocharger and exhaust 
component assembly, metal stamping, tube 
bending and component machining,  
welding, product assembly, painting and 
performance testing.  
Power Generation 
Cummins Power Generation Business 
facility operations primarily involve product 
design, research and development, alternator 
manufacturing, assembly of generator sets, 
switchgear and controls and product testing.  
Alternator manufacturing facilities perform 
component machining, lamination stamping, 
rotor and stator winding, resin impregnation and 
alternator assembly.  Assembly facilities perform 
housing fabrication, genset assembly, switchgear 
and controls assembly, painting, alkaline bath parts washing and genset performance testing.  Product 
design and performance testing are conducted 
in the research and development technical 
centers.  Genset testing is conducted in stationary 
test stands/cells, where product performance 
information is measured while gensets are run 
at various duty cycles.  Test cells also are used 
for certification testing to ensure products meet 
emissions requirements.
Waste Streams
The primary waste streams generated at Cummins 
manufacturing facilities include waste paint and 
associated materials, paint filters, sludges and filter 
cake, machine coolant, used oil and resins.  Metals 
and metal parts that cannot be reconditioned for re-
use in Cummins products are salvaged for off-site 
recycling, as are used oils.  Other waste streams 
include filter media and resins.  At most facilities, 
machine coolant is recycled until ineffective and 
ultimately added to the wastewater stream for 
pretreatment prior to discharge to public  
treatment works. 
68   Environment and SafetyEnvironmental Performance Measures
Reporting Sites
Cummins has collected key environmental 
performance measures from our facilities worldwide 
for a number of years.  The data-gathering 
effort has focused on our facilities serving 
manufacturing, warehousing and administrative 
functions that have the most significant potential 
incremental environmental impact, based on their 
size and the nature of operations conducted.  In 
light of Cummins’ participation in the Climate 
Leaders Program and the GHG inventory scope 
requirements as prescribed in the World Resources 
Institute protocols, the population of sites for that 
data gathering effort has widened significantly.  
Consequently, measures have been compiled 
from two different data sets, which are indicated 
accordingly in the following sections of this report.
This report lists data from 00, 004 and 005 and 
shows trends over time. Although the number of 
reporting sites is the same, the reporting entities 
over the 00-005 timeframe is not, with plant closures and new reporting sites added.  Still, 
data trends will provide valuable information 
relative to environmental performance.  Revenue 
data associated with the reporting sites has been 
provided to account for swings in production.    
Normalizing the data also is useful to address 
the changes in population and operations of the 
reporting sites. 
These data, with the exception of electricity, fuels 
and their associated direct and indirect emissions, 
were derived from 8 reporting sites.  The fuels, 
electricity and emissions for the data reported 
herein, however, were collected from the wider 
group of 79 facilities from which a greenhouse gas 
inventory is being developed.  Consequently, the 
fuel, electrical and emissions data in this report are 
not consistent with that compiled and published in 
previous years’ reports.
Energy and Fuels/  
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
An emissions inventory is being developed at 
Cummins that will encompass all management-We are developing our GHG inventory from sites worldwideEnvironment and Safety   69  controlled sites worldwide to support Cummins’ 
participation in the EPA Climate Leaders program 
and to help achieve our GHG reduction goal.  
Data included for the purposes of this report 
are derived from 79 facilities in the U.S., United 
Kingdom and Mexico, representing essentially 
all the sites in these geographies.  Net sales also 
have been collected from these sites to normalize 
the emissions data and to account for changes in 
production rates over the reporting timeframe.  
Greenhouse gas emissions are based on energy 
and fuels data from these same 79 reporting sites.  
These emissions are reported in metric tons of CO-
equivalent and were calculated based on guidance 
and emissions factors provided in the Climate 
Leaders Greenhouse Gas Inventory Protocol.  
Indirect emissions calculations from electricity use 
take into account the carbon intensity of the fuel 
and technology used to generate the power.  A 
determination of the electricity emissions was 
made using emission factors from the EPA eGRID 
emissions database.  Mexico and UK emission 
factors are from the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol calculation tools.  Other Environmental Measures
Materials 
Cummins materials data collection includes 
specific categories of process compounds used 
most commonly in the Company’s manufacturing 
processes.  In addition, quarterly data are reported 
and compiled for wastes, recycled materials, 
utilities and other key measures.  
Data trends clearly indicate a greater efficiency 
in production and revenue generation without 
a commensurate increase in environmental 
impacts.   Material use increases generally are 
consistent from 00 to 004 although at varying 
rates, against a 4 percent increase in sales 
over that timeframe.  Materials use is generally 
consistent in the 004 and 005 timeframe in spite 
of production increases that yielded 17.5 percent 
increase in sales.  A notable exception is natural 
gas use, which declined by 9.6 percent and 6.8 
percent in 004 and 005 respectively.  Water use 
also decreased by 9.6 percent and 1.7 percent.  
Diesel fuel use increased by 5 percent, in spite of 70   Environment and SafetyMaterials   
 Category 00 004 005
 Materials Other Than Water
Diesel Fuel/Fuel Oil (Gallons)* 8,074,15 8,4,75 10,555,95
Natural Gas (Cubic Feet)* 1,49,581,89 1,449,516,018 1,50,45,874
Propane (Cubic Feet)* 5,19,018 5,90,0 5,967,88
Oil (Gallons) 1,110,160 1,688,49 1,686,505
Paint (Gallons) ,47 05,961 9,80
Coolant (Gallons) 4,450 88,00 85,14
Solvent (Gallons) 9,166 9,51 99,50
Total Water Use
Total Water Use (Gallons) 1,048,097,96 1,111,5,451 958,55,98
Significant Discharges to Water (Gallons) 757,016,449 897,101,545 770,551,878
Total Amount of Waste by Type
Industrial Waste (Metric Tons) 1,704 ,46 ,074
General Refuse (Metric Tons) 8,014 8,481 10,51
Recycled Materials
Iron (Metric Tons) 76,559 111, 99,98
Aluminum (Metric Tons) 71 98 978
Copper & Brass (Metric Tons) 18 468 6
Cardboard (Metric Tons) 4,951 1,096 6,601
Paper (Metric Tons) 49 10 81
Wood (Metric Tons) 6,0 8,014 9,541
Plastic (Metric Tons) 181 5 55
Reused Liquid Waste (Gallons) 1,559,6 ,48,19 ,750,151
* 79 reporting sites; all other totals are from a 8 site datasetEnvironment and Safety   71  test cell use reduction processes implemented at 
selected manufacturing locations.  Also, recycled 
metals increased by 45 percent from 00 to 004, 
outpacing production growth, but dropped by 10.8 
percent in 005.   The decrease in metals recycled 
may be attributed in part to efforts to minimize metal 
waste generated in the manufacturing process.   
Totals for recycled paper, plastic and wood are 
understated because at several locations load 
weights are unavailable or represent aggregated 
vs. individual material totals.  Significant discharges 
to water also are estimated because these are not 
directly measured at all worldwide locations.
Reused liquid wastes represent estimated 
quantities of industrial process wastes reclaimed for 
re-use or otherwise returned to process based on 
Btu content as feedstock in cement kilns or blended 
fuels.  These include oil, coolants, solvents and 
thinners and residual fluids primarily from painting 
processes, including selected wastes that are 
regulated as hazardous as defined within the U.S. 
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Historical energy and fuels use data indicate that 
Cummins achieved an absolute GHG emissions 
reduction of . percent in 005 versus the year 
000.  This equates to a 8 percent overall and a 0 
percent, inflation adjusted, GHG intensity reduction 
expressed in tons of COe (equivalents) per million 
dollars in net sales.
This significant emissions reduction has been 
accomplished through an environmental 
improvement project focus at Cummins that 
employs Six Sigma tools and methodology.  These 
projects highlight the fact that what is right for 
the environment often is good for the business.   
Similarly, fuel-use reductions tied to engine-testing 
efficiencies initiatives, which themselves yield 
substantial environmental benefits, represent 
supplemental benefits from what is primarily a 
quality assurance tool.
Recent data trends, as depicted on page 60 clearly 
indicate that Cummins is significantly more efficient 
at manufacturing our products than in years past.   Category  00 004 005
Direct (Gigajoules)
Fuel Oil/Diesel/Aircraft Fuel 1,160,561 1,1,14 1,54,178
Natural Gas 1,645,887 1,60,685 1,487,69
Propane 1,610 15,509 15,614
Indirect
Electricity (Gigajoules) ,141,6 ,460,509 ,574,481
Electricity (KwH) 594,8,887 68,474,89 715,1,65Direct and Indirect Energy Use
The energy data provided represent electricity used at the Company’s facilities to generate power for 
manufacturing operations, power produced and sold to the regional grid and power used for facility heating 
and cooling purposes.  These data are the source of the greenhouse gas emissions in the Cummins inventory 
also presented above.7   Environment and SafetyTransportation emissions associated with air travel 
from the Company airplane fleet has remained 
essentially constant.   
The chart on page 7 illustrates the relative share 
of 005 emissions from among the 79 U.S., U.K. 
and Mexico facilities included in the GHG inventory.  
Indirect emissions associated with electricity use 
dominates Cummins emissions profile by a factor 
of nearly three to one over those direct emissions 
from stationary source combustion.  The relative 
magnitude of emissions from facilities in Indiana 
is in part due to the carbon intensity of electricity 
supplied by the burning of coal.  The “other” 7 
percent depicted in the pie chart represents the 
aggregated total emissions from those facilities that 
contributed less than % relative share of the total 
on an individual basis. 
 
Other Significant Air Emissions
Data for NOx, CO, PM and CO were developed 
from the 79 sites reporting fuels and electricity 
for the  the GHG inventory.  Totals for VOC are 
based on data from the traditional 8 reporting sites.  Emissions from diesel fuel used in product 
testing applications and No.  fuel oil, propane 
and natural gas used in in boilers and furnaces, 
were derived using EPA AP-4 Compilation of Air 
Pollutant Emission Factors, 1996. It should be 
noted that AP-4 emissions conversions used 
for large diesel engines are based on obsolete 
technology.  Although we have not used conversion 
factors developed from our own emission testing, 
it is certain that the emissions data presented 
here based on AP-4 is overstated. VOC totals 
are based on throughput and VOC content of 
the significant sources at each reporting site; 
however, total emissions for this parameter are not 
considered to be comprehensive.  
Ozone Depleting Substances
In 1995, Cummins implemented a policy that 
stationary equipment using chlorofluorocarbons 
(CFCs) would no longer be purchased by Cummins.  
Equipment already in place would be considered 
for conversion or replacement depending on its 
age and repair costs.  As a result of this policy, Emissions Source 000 001 00 00 004 005
Electricity 46,57 40,865 408,44 84,191 411500 45,95
Stationary combustion 158,104 158,050 160,610 148,888 14,779 145,48
Transportation 4,4 ,506 4,9 4,444 414 4,14
Total 599,011 565,41 57,46 57,5 559,41 585,17
Adjusted Net Sales 
($Millions)4,48 ,570 ,65 ,80 4,84 5,7
Tons COe/  
$M in adjusted net sales17.8 158.4 156.9 140.4 115.5 109.9Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions Summary (Metric Tons COe)Environment and Safety   7  Cummins has replaced more than 50 percent of its 
equipment containing ozone-depleting substances.
 
Significant Spills of Chemicals,  
Oils, and Fuels
Incidents and Fines for Non-compliance 
NOTICES OF VIOLATION
(Editor’s Note: Due to lag-times associated with 
the public reporting process in various locations, 
information regarding fines and violations often 
does not become public record for some time 
after the initial issue is raised. Fines and violations 
detailed below represent information not included  
in previous reports.)  
Consolidated Diesel Company
On September 16, 005, the site received a Notice 
of Violation Letter (NOV) from the North Carolina 
Department of Environment and Natural Resources.  
The NOV alleged the absence of an updated Risk 
Management Plan (RMP).   Although the site developed an RMP in 1999 for 
storage of propane gas based on their original 
interpretation of the rules, a subsequent judicial stay 
was applied that negated the requirement at CDC 
and similar facilities in the US. 
The site contested the NOV, citing the rule and its 
non-applicability and provided the agency with a 
request for a withdrawal of the RMP.  On May 17, 
006, the site received a Rescission Letter from 
the North Carolina Department of Environment and 
Natural Resources, thus nullifying the original NOV. 
Cummins Filtration – Viroqua
On February , 005, the United States 
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) Region 
5 and the Wisconsin Department of Natural 
Resources performed an inspection at the 
Cummins Filtration site in Viroqua, Wisc.  During 
this inspection, the USEPA Representative cited 
deviations from the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act requirements in the site’s waste 
management program.  On April 4, 005, site 
personnel informed the USEPA that all corrective 005 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Plant
% 7% 10% 10% 10% 8% 7% 6% 6% 6% 4% %Filtration - 
Lake MillsDavent ry England (Plant )
Filtration - 
Cookeville
Power Gen - FridleyJamestown Engine (Plant )Cummins Industrial Center
Columbus Midrange Engine Plant
Fuel S ystems BusinessConsolidated DieselColumbus Engine Plant
Cummins T echnical CenterOther74   Environment and Safetymeasures necessary to mitigate the issues at 
hand and prevent their reoccurrence had been 
implemented.
Although the site had already submitted 
documentation stating that the issues cited 
had been addressed, the USEPA issued a NOV 
on August , 005, as a formality.  On August 
0, 005, in response to the NOV, the site 
again provided evidence of completion of their 
corrective actions.  The USEPA replied with a 
Letter of Acknowledgement informing the site that 
no additional action was needed.  No monetary 
penalties were assessed.
Diesel ReCon – Juarez
On August 16, 004, the Diesel ReCon facility 
in Juarez, Mexico was inspected by PROFEPA.  
During this inspection, several deviations were 
noted related to air emissions and hazardous waste 
management.  A formal written response was sent 
by the site to PROFEPA in November 004 that 
addressed the majority of the deviations identified 
during the original inspection.   Nevertheless, the site received a citation on January 
11, 005, that included a fine equivalent to $,89, 
which was subsequently paid by the plant.  
In November 005, the site experienced a 
verification inspection by PROFEPA.  During this 
inspection, PROFEPA noted that there were some 
remaining issues that required attention.  As a result, 
the site received a citation in the amount of $98, 
which was subsequently paid.  The site implemented 
corrective measures for all remaining deviations.
Continual Improvement and Six Sigma
Six Sigma is the key problem-solving tool used 
by Cummins for environmental improvement 
projects. From a facilities perspective, Cummins 
has implemented a number of projects to address 
sustainability issues based on commitments made 
in the environmental mission and policy.  These 
commitments include natural resource conservation 
and pollution prevention, which have been a 
continuous improvement focus at Cummins for a 
number of years.   Metric Tons 00 004 005
NOX 96 490 058
CO 5 55 674
PM10 160 167 167
VOC 76 854 791Other Direct Air EmissionsEnvironment and Safety   75  Watching paint dry may not seem like a fascinating 
topic, but it’s crucial when you’re painting 
thousands of filters per day. Cummins Cookeville 
Production Line was expending a great deal of 
energy re-painting hundreds that came from the 
drying oven either tacky or spotted with soot. The 
solution was a new electric drying oven that not 
only reduced the re-paint average from 640 to only 
8 per day, but also reduced BTU requirements by 
55 percent.  This process improvement reduced 
paint use by approximately 1,000 gallons and 800 
pounds per year of VOC emissions.
Over a four-year period, Cummins Filtration worked 
with paint suppliers to reformulate coatings applied 
to exhaust products to significantly reduce the metals 
content.  Successful reformulations were developed, 
which met product quality requirements and at 
the same time resulted in a more environmentally 
friendly coating.  As a result of the largely metal-free 
formulation, hazardous wastes generated at six 
Wisconsin exhaust component manufacturing plants 
were reduced by 70 percent.   In addition, each 
of the six participating plants reduced their RCRA hazardous waste generator status from large quantity 
to that of a small quantity generator.
Fuel pumps and injectors produced at the 
Cummins Juarez Fuel System plant are shipped in 
plastic insert trays that are suitable for re-use. To 
encourage recycling, specific instructions were 
given to return all such packaging to Juarez, where 
it could be sorted, washed, repaired and reused. 
Not all trays were salvageable, but re-use has gone 
from zero to an annualized 0 percent since the 
program was instituted in 005.
San Luis Potosí, Cummins Plant
2005 Environmental Achievements
Cummins SLP in México was an industry leader in 
promoting a cleaner, healthier and safer environment 
in Mexico by improving its environmental processes 
long before it became mandatory. The site did this by 
targeting numerous projects to identify and control 
major environmental impacts. Natural resource conservation and pollution prevention are  
top priorities at our facilities76   Environment and SafetyOne of its main goals was reducing electrical 
consumption.  Through the use of Six Sigma and 
a robust environmental management system, 
Cummins SLP reduced its usage 5 percent (revenue 
adjusted). This was made possible by reducing 
air leaks in the compressed air system, replacing 
inefficient motors and pumps and the innovative use 
of natural sunlight that reduced energy consumption 
by 90 percent in the offices. A new dust collector 
system was installed to reduce particulate emissions.
SLP is located on the border of the Chihuahense 
desert where fresh surface and ground water are 
scarce; Cummins SLP reduced ground water 
consumption by 5 percent through employee 
education and eliminating leaks at the site.   
This action saved Cummins money and also  
helped conserve a scarce resource. 
Water Conservation
Cummins Daventry Engine Plant has taken the 
opportunity to reduce its consumption of natural 
resources by collecting and using rain water to 
supplement in-house operations.The re-routing of subsurface pipes being conducted 
at the Daventry Engine Plant, as part of its pollution 
prevention initiatives, presented the opportunity 
to tap into a natural resource, rain water.  The rain 
is collected from roof drains and is captured into 
large, filtered holding tanks. This water is then fed 
into the engine cooling water circuits, thus removing 
the need to replenish evaporative losses via the 
incoming potable water supply.  The plant collected 
more than 1,00 cubic meters of water (more than 
9,000 gallons) over an eight-month period, despite 
the hottest July on record in the U.K.   Plans are in 
place to collect water from roof drains across the 
entire facility and recycle it into process operations.
Pollution Prevention – Going Above Ground
Conveying fuels and other process chemicals in 
below-ground piping represents a risk of releases to 
the environment.  Cummins’ new facility construction 
design takes this into account by specifying all new 
piping be above ground or contained in concrete 
trenches.  No longer is “out-of-sight, out-of- mind” 
a concern for these critical systems.  Piping 
installations placed accordingly not only provide 
Cummins employee Paula Allen plants a tree  
as part of an effort to offset carbon emissions  
from air travelEnvironment and Safety   77  the opportunity to build in capture mechanisms in 
the event of a release and immediate recognition 
in such an event, they also ease a preventive 
maintenance and inspection program.  
Daventry Engine Plant
Cummins’ existing facilities also are taking the 
above-ground approach to their systems.  As part of 
their ongoing continuous improvement programs, the 
Daventry Engine Plant is systematically removing old 
underground pipework that carries storm and used 
process waters and moving it above ground. These 
new systems are included in the regular inspection 
processes conducted at the plant.
The Daventry England site has also equipped its 
sanitary sewer lines systems that must remain 
below ground with electronic sensors that send 
automated phone calls to designated plant staff in 
the event of an overflow condition.  Future plans will 
include fitting the storm water pipes with sensors 
that not only raise a similar alarm but will bypass 
water to the sewer in the event that contaminants 
are detected in the water.  This measure will ensure that the local Country Park reservoir is protected 
from impacts from any potentially harmful materials 
originating from the Daventry plant site. 
Consolidated Diesel Corporation 
At CDC in North Carolina, 16 pipe lines, each 
extending 545 feet and used to convey fuels and 
oils at the site, are being replaced with new systems 
contained within a covered concrete, sub-grade, 
containment vault. The vault is connected to the 
existing containment basin surrounding CDC’s 
tank farm. This will allow any releases to be easily 
identified, contained and processed through the 
wastewater treatment system.
Distributors
At our distributor service locations, waste water 
is generated through washing of engines and 
components.  Over the last decade, Cummins  
has implemented a program to systematically 
upgrade our waste water systems to include  
state-of-the-art pollution prevention measures  
at our distributor locations.New facility design at Cummins mandates above ground/in-trench  
piping for pollution control78   Environment and SafetySpecifications for the Cummins preferred 
waste water system design include secondary 
containment and leak detection for any below-
ground waste water system components.  Further, 
the specification calls for system components, such 
as oil/water separators, to be placed above-ground 
to aid in leak detection and routine maintenance.  
This specification dramatically reduces the 
potential for these washing operations to affect the 
environment.  To date, Cummins has upgraded 
these systems at dozens of facilities worldwide.
Energy Conservation and Cost 
Containment at Cummins Facilities
Cummins’ energy costs are increasing, although 
we try to minimize the financial impact of these 
increases by informed and competitive buying 
strategies in the countries in which we have 
manufacturing operations.  Cummins’ consumption 
of fossil fuels and electric power represented 
significantly less than 1 percent of sales in 004 
and in 005. With the forward contract purchases  
of utilities, we are able to postpone or lessen  the impact of rising energy costs on our  
facilities worldwide.
To highlight our efforts in a particular country as 
an example, this year we have limited our U.K. 
natural gas cost increases to 17 percent versus a 
published average increase of 4 percent. Similarly, 
we held electricity increases to 5 percent versus 
the average of 4 percent. (Source - EIC Market 
Intelligence, May 006).
Further, this year we have secured 6 million kWh 
of electricity for our European operations, which is 
to be generated from ‘Good Quality Combined Heat 
and Power’ (GQCHP) sources.  This represents 97 
percent of our U.K. requirements for the contract 
year.  GQCHP is the simultaneous generation of 
electricity and useful heat from a single fuel source, 
a generation technology that significantly reduces 
carbon dioxide emissions to the atmosphere.  It 
is recognized as a ‘green’ generation source by 
the U.K. government and, as such, is exempted 
from the U.K. Government’s ‘Climate Change Levy’ 
charge.  We also have power generation capability Our fossil fuel and electric power consumption are significantly  
less than 1 percent of salesEnvironment and Safety   79  at two of our sites where we can sell our excess 
generation back into the U.K. distribution network.
The U.K. government provides a monetary subsidy 
for use of certain power sources, including GQCHP, 
based on theoretical reductions in GHG emissions 
avoidance by the source.  Combined heat and 
power can increase the overall efficiency of fuel 
use to more than 75 percent, including avoidance 
of transmission and distribution losses in electricity 
it supplies locally.  Based on the government 
allowance, the GHG avoidance exceeds 7,000 
tons of CO.
Safety and Environmental Awards
In order to recognize outstanding performance, the 
Safety and Environmental Council presents awards 
to those Cummins entities that best demonstrated 
excellence in one or both of these areas. Through 
their efforts, these sites are instrumental in helping 
Cummins meet the commitments of the Company 
Vision and Mission.  The Council evaluated the 
performance of each entity, using the  
following criteria: Benefit to environment and safety
Level of management and employee commitment 
Economic efficiency 
Innovation 
Ability to serve as a model for use by others
The environmental awards focus on projects and 
initiatives that promote sustainability, emissions 
reductions and the conservation of natural 
resources.  Bonus points are awarded for site 
recognition in government and NGO environmental 
stewardship programs 
Entities are recognized at four levels; Chairman, 
Business Unit, Director and Best Practice. The HSE 
Council also honored five individuals, including 
facility HSE leaders and plant managers, for their 
personal efforts to improve safety or environmental 
performance.  •
•
•
•
•
Mexico Site Wins Top Environmental Honors
In addition to the recognition within the Company, 
Cummins Mexico (Cummins San Luis Potosi plant 
and the businesses of Components, Parts and 
Service, and the Parts Distribution Center) also 
received the prestigious award for Excellencia 
Ambiental, the Environmental Excellence award.  
On September 6, Mexico President Vicente 
Fox Quesada presented the Recognition for 
Environmental Excellence to 16 companies that 
have shown an environmental performance 
excellence for performance beyond what is 
required by regulation.  
The recognition is the highest distinction available 
from the Mexican government through the 
PROFEPA, the Mexican environmental agency. The process of selecting the winning companies 
involved a committee of academic, private sector, 
social and environmental authorities, who selected 
those organizations that have demonstrated 
environmental stewardship through: 
An ongoing commitment to improve their 
environmental performance. 
Investments made to support environmental 
protection centered at the plant and outreach 
efforts to encourage stewardship among 
communities around the country. 
Leadership that advocates environmental 
responsibility and the betterment of society in 
general.•
•
•
About the photo: Jose Luege, Mexican Secretary of Environmental and Natural Resources and Vicente Fox 
Quesada, President of Mexico (center) are  pictured with Miguel Kindler, Cummins Mexico Operations Director 
(left) and Trinidad Guzman, Cummins Mexico Safety and Environment Manager (right).
80  Environment and Safety   81  The environment award winners for 005 were:
Chairman Award Level
Cummins Mexico Components,  
ReCon and Parts Distribution Operations
Business Unit Award Level
Cummins Industrial Center/  
Cummins Komatsu Engine Co.
Cummins Generator Technologies Mexico,  
SLP Plant  
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Co., Ltd.    
Fuel Systems Plant/  
General Office Building Cummins
Cummins Rocky Mountain LLC
Director Award Level
Columbus MidRange Engine Plant           
Best Practice Award Level
Jamestown Engine Plant  
Daventry Engine Plant   
Tata Holset Limited   
Consolidated Diesel Company•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•Cummins Mexico Components Plant was the 005 
winner of the Chairman’s Award for both Safety 
and Environment.  As a result of this outstanding 
achievement, the Safety and Environmental Council 
decided to hold its 006 workshop in San Luis 
Potosi to honor the plant personnel and so that the 
workshop participants can observe first-hand, the 
excellent safety and environmental practices in 
place at the plant.  
The Chairman’s award for environment at Cummins 
Mexico includes Components, the Parts Distribution 
Center and the ReCon operations and is being 
given for several projects reducing electricity 
consumption, continued efforts to conserve the 
precious local water resources, the installation of a 
dust collection system and program development 
that supports wildlife conservation in central Mexico. 8   Environment and SafetyCummins Worldwide Health, Safety and 
Environmental Workshop
This year’s worldwide Health, Safety and 
Environment Workshop was held in San Luis 
Potosí, Mexico, and more than 15 leaders from 
various Cummins facilities attended.  The event 
brought together people from Canada, the U.S., 
Brazil, France, Germany, England, India, China, 
Australia, Belgium and Singapore, representing all 
parts of the Company. More than 40 conferences, 
exhibitions, training sessions and best practice-
sharing exercises were conducted during the event. 
To support Cummins’ efforts to minimize greenhouse 
gas emissions air travel to and from the workshop 
was conducted in a “carbon neutral” manner. 
Workshop participants planted trees on the site 
grounds that will absorb carbon dioxide from the 
atmosphere as they grow.  During their lifetimes, 
the growing trees are projected to absorb the 
volume of C0 equivalent to that emitted through 
the consumption of jet fuel necessary to bring the 
participants to Mexico. The tree planting was conducted in association with 
the Cummins Mexico partnership that supports the 
community “Salvemos un Arbol” (Let’s Save a Tree) 
initiative. More than 1100 trees have been planted 
on the facility grounds in 006, including those 
dedicated for the workshop, plus an additional 
,05 planted at local and rural schools.
Safety
The Corporate Health, Safety, and Environmental 
(HSE) Council was established in 00 and 
continues to strengthen today.  The HSE Council 
brings together manufacturing, safety and 
environmental leaders from across the Company’s 
business units, along with the corporate HSE staff 
and General Counsel.  The HSE council meets 
quarterly to recommend and implement HSE 
policies and strategic initiatives.  
The Company’s safety measures include goals 
and targets for Incidence Rate (IR), Severity Lost 
Workday Rate (SLWR), Severity Case Rate (SCR) 
and Cummins Safety System (CSS) audit score 
(formerly known as CPE/COS Audit).  For Cummins Incidence Rate
Of special note: The Cummins Filtration Plant in 
Muscoda, WI. reached 4 months without a work 
related injury during 005. 
2003 2004 2005Environment and Safety   8  facilities worldwide, the Company measures itself 
against the U.S. OSHA standard.  In addition, it 
measures and scores manufacturing facilities 
against the CSS audit criteria, which has been 
established under the Cummins Operating System 
umbrella for manufacturing excellence. 
 
Incidence Rate (IR)
IR is the annualized rate of occupational injuries 
and illnesses per 100 employees.  The corporate 
goal for IR is zero work-related injuries and 
illnesses. The Company experienced a slight 
increase in IR in 005, demonstrating that we must 
continually maintain our focus on safety.  Through 
the HSE council, we strive to engage all employees 
in improving safety at work, and we continue our 
efforts toward the goal of zero occupational injuries 
and illnesses. 
Severity Lost Workday Rate (SLWR)
SLWR is the annualized number of days away 
from work per 100 employees.  The corporate goal 
for SLWR is zero days away from work because of occupational injury or illness. The 005 SLWR 
performance target was 8.0, or a 50 percent 
performance improvement from the previous year. 
The Company experienced a decrease in SLWR as 
a result of safety initiatives aimed at lowering  
the rate of ergonomic injuries and the use of Six  
Sigma methodologies for implementing Return  
to Work programs. 
Severity Case Rate (SCR)
SCR is the annualized number of cases with days 
away from work per 100 employees.  005 is a 
baseline year for this measure, so no specific 
performance target has been established yet. 
This measure primarily will be used to benchmark 
the Company’s performance against similar 
manufacturing companies. Overall, the Company 
experienced a SCR of 0.74 in 005.  Severity Lost Workday Rate
Of special note: The Consolidated Diesel Company 
in Rocky Mount, NC. worked one million hours with 
no lost time days during 005. 
2003 2004 200584   Environment and SafetyCummins Safety System (CSS Audits)
The CSS Audit is based on the 10 Cummins 
Operating System statements, and defines within 
its 8 criteria statements the minimum safety 
requirements for the Company.  Audit scores 
enable Cummins facilities globally to benchmark 
themselves against each other and against the 
Company’s standards.  Sites whose previous year 
performance did not meet the IR and SLWR targets 
are required to participate in the CSS Audit program. 
CSS Audits are conducted in three phases:  
Pre-Audit 
Performed to identify the gaps between current 
site practices and the system requirements.  The 
pre-audit is conducted three to six months before 
the formal audit.   
Formal Audit
 A formal audit is conducted with the participation 
of corporate lead auditors, to determine level of 
conformance to CSS criteria.  The site must have 
participated at least in the formal audit stage in order to be eligible for the Company’s internal 
Health & Safety recognition program.
Verification Audit
A verification audit is performed following the formal 
audit when the site needs to demonstrate safety 
system performance has been maintained  
or improved.  
45 Corporate CSS Audits were performed during 
005 resulting in implementation of numerous 
process improvements.  As an additional benefit, 
the lead auditors become more aware of safety best 
practices and are able to facilitate sharing between 
the sites.     
OHSAS 18001 
The Cummins Safety System is based on the 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 
(OHSAS) 18001 specification, an international 
occupational health and safety management 
system measure. The purpose of the specification 
is to enable the organization to control its 
occupational health and safety risks and improve Safety auditors share best practices among our sites  
around the globeEnvironment and Safety   85  its safety performance. Registration of a Corporate 
CSS meeting the OHSAS 18001 specification is 
anticipated in 007.
Cummins Health and  
Safety Recognition Program
Sites are eligible for Health and Safety recognition 
at three performance levels; Chairman’s Award, 
Business Unit (BU) Award and Director’s Award.   
In addition, awards are given by the business  
units in recognition of Best Practices the sites  
have implemented. 
 
The 005 Corporate Health & Safety Recognition is 
based upon the following performance criteria:
Chairman’s Award
To be eligible for this award, a site must achieve 
an IR of 0.0 to 0.5 and a minimum CSS Formal or 
Verification Audit level , with 95 points.  
Business Unit Award
To be eligible for this award, a site must achieve 
an IR of 0.6 to 1.0 and a minimum CSS Formal or Verification Audit level , with 85 points.  The site 
may not win this award in successive years, as we 
strive for improvements.
 
Director’s Award 
To be eligible for this award a site must achieve the 
corporate health and safety targets: IR less than 
.0 and a minimum CSS Formal or Verification Audit 
level , with 70 points.  The site may not win this 
award in successive years.
The Health and Safety Performance Award winners 
for 005 are:
Chairman’s Award Level
Cummins Filtration, Viroqua
Cummins México, San Luis Potosí
Business Unit Award Level
Cummins Filtration, Universal Silencer,  
Muscoda, WI
Kuss Corporation
Fuel Systems Plant, Columbus, IN
Fuel Systems Plant, Juarez, Mexico
Cummins South-Pacific•
•
•
•
•
•
•
86   Environment and SafetyDirector’s Award
 Consolidated Diesel Company
Columbus MidRange Engine Plant
Jamestown Engine Plant
Generator Technologies Mexico, SLP Plant
Cummins Power Generation Brazil
Cummins Turbo Technologies Huddersfield
Each site is eligible to nominate a Health and Safety 
Best Practice. Nominations are evaluated by the 
Business Unit representatives serving on the HSE 
Council.  Best practice winners for 005 were:
Cummins Filtration, Viroqua
“HSE Steering Committee”
Turbo Technologies Huddersfield 
“Promotion of Positive HSE Culture”
Tata Cummins Limited 
“Operators Owning Safety”
Generator Technologies Wuxi 
“Visual Controls”•
•
•
•
•
•Jamestown Engine Plant
“Safety Improvement Council Process”
Cummins Cal Pacific LLC 
“Distribution Best Practice”
Other Safety Honors and Milestones
Mexico Distribution Center Completes 
Nine Years Without a Safety Incident
In September, Cummins Filtration’s Mexico 
Distribution Center celebrated nine years of 
operations in San Luis Potosí without a single 
safety incident. The distribution center has faced 
many operational challenges over the years - from 
growing volumes to implementing improvements to 
changing the physical layout of the facility - but has 
done so safely.
The achievement was made possible by a workforce 
that is committed to safety and a comprehensive 
safety program that includes periodic audits and 
safety improvement projects. Sustainability is for real because it is part of what we are.  
If our efforts to create a New Cummins are to last, then they  
have to originate in our roots.Environment and Safety   87  Two Cummins Facilities Receive  
State Safety Awards
The Cummins Filtration Plant in Cookeville, Tenn., 
was awarded its second consecutive Tennessee 
Commissioner’s Award of Excellence for Workplace 
Safety and Health at the Tennessee Safety and 
Health Congress in 005.  
Consolidated Diesel in Rocky Mount, N. C. , 
received two awards from the North Carolina 
Department of Labor (DOL).  The first award was 
for working one million hours with no lost time days.  
The second award was for achieving at least 50 
percent lower than the state average incidence 
rates for this type of industry.  It was the seventh 
consecutive year CDC has received this award. Health and Safety Professional 
Development
Cummins continues to support professional 
development of employees working in health and 
safety.  In 005, the Engine Business Unit held 
its first Engine Business Unit Safety Workshop in 
Memphis, Tenn.  More than 70 participants from 
the EBU around the world came to Memphis to 
participate in the five-day workshop.  The workshop 
included training opportunities, speakers from other 
industries, sharing of internal and external best 
practices and development of EBU safety programs. Sustainability nourishes our society and our environment even as  
it nourishes us as a company, enabling our growth today and in  
the future. Sustainability is not a fashion. It is an enduring part of our 
character that not only defines us, but also our place in the world. Foundation Management
Directors of the Foundation
Tim Solso, Chairman  
Tracy Souza, President 
Jean Blackwell, Secretary and Treasurer
Mark Gerstle, Board Member
Tom Linebarger, Board Member
Joe Loughrey, Board Member
Will Miller, Board Member 
Audit Committee
Marsha Hunt, Committee Chair
Luther Peters 
James Guilfoyle
Investment Committee
Richard Harris, Committee Chair
Nadeem Ali
Marsha HuntThe Cummins Foundation Report
Domestic Committees
Columbus, IN Committee
Joe Loughrey, Committee Chair
Rich Freeland
Ignacio Garcia
Mark Gerstle
Jim Kelly
Will Miller
Tracy Souza
Don Trapp
Tina Vujovich
John Wall
Indianapolis, IN Committee
Jean Blackwell, Committee Chair
Susan Hanafee
Marya Rose
Tim Solso
Tracy Souza
88Cummins Foundation Directors and Committees89  International Committees
C3-Cummins Community Connection- 
Central Area
Raymond Eyres, Committee Chair
Cummins Community Cares -  
South Pacific
Gino Butera, Committee Chair
Csilla Csorba, Manager
Cummins India Foundation
Anant Talaulicar, Chairman of Foundation 
Asociacion Filantropica de Cummins AC
Rafel Dorador, Chairman of Foundation
Edgar Freeman Rubio, DirectorFinancial Summary
Cummins charitable contributions were $ 8.1 million 
in 005 and $11.9  million in 006. Company 
donations to the Foundation were $7 million in 005 
and $8 million in 006. Direct donations accounted 
for $1.1 million in 005 and $.9 million in 006.  
In 005, the Cummins Foundation committed 
$,10,984 in grants and paid $,99,984.  
Adminstrative expenses were $60,55.
In 006, the Foundation Board made commitments of 
$5,01,058 with acutal grant payments of $,80,115. 
Administrative expenses were $9,14.  90Assets November 30, 2006 December 31, 2005
Cash and cash equivalents  $,04,814  $8,00,74
Contributions Receivable - 95,108
Program-related investments 10,88,974 ,000
Other assets 17,8 - 
$1,891,61 $9,195,850
Liabilities and Net Assets
Liabilities
Grants payable $59,441 $5,500
Excise Tax Payable 680 680
Total Liabilities 594,11 54,180
Unrestricted net assets:
Undesignated ,090,57 1,770,71
Board-designated discretionary fund 4,156
Board-designated grant fund 14,64 50,14
Board-designated Columbus committee fund                 64,500 4,000
Board-designated architecture fund           5,000,000 ,900,000
Board-designated reserve fund             5,000,000 ,500,000
          1,97,500 8,941,670 
$1,891,61 $9,195,850 Cummins charitable contributions were $ 8.1 million in 005  
and $11.9  million in 006.
Statement of Financial Position (YTD)*
* Most recent data as of press time. Full-year 006 data will be posted on cummins.com when available.91  Support and revenues November 30, 2006 December 31, 2005
Contributions  $7,999,994  $6,955,954 
Investment return, net            9,48           6,40 
Total support and revenues         8,9,4        7,18,74 
Program grants
Core programs  $,94,057  $1,99,88 
Community development            45,500             61,000 
Community initiative            49,500           776,500 
Total program grants         ,807,057        ,777,8 
Administrative expenses            4,98           6,199 
Total expenses         4,141,455        ,09,58 
Unrealized gain/(loss) on investment            104,86 
Change in net assets         4,55,80        4,14,79 
Unrestricted net assets, beginning of year         8,941,670        4,798,878 
Change in net assets         4,55,80        4,14,79 
Unrestricted net assets, end of period       $1,97,500        $8,941,670 
* Most recent data as of press time. Full-year 006 data will be posted on cummins.com when available.Company donations to the Foundation were $7 million in 005  
and $8 million in 006.
Statement of Activities (YTD)*The Cummins Foundation - 2006 Grants
Grantee Community Purpose Amount
ABC - Stewart School Columbus, IN 006 Scholarship Support $5,000.00 
Adult Day Care Corporation Columbus, IN 006 General Support $,000.00 
Autism Speaks New York, NY Kick-off for a Cure Benefit Dinner $50,000.00 
Backfield in Motion Nashville, TN General Support $5,000.00 
Bartholomew Area Legal Aid, Inc. Columbus, IN 006 General Support $5,000.00 
Bartholomew Consolidated School 
CorporationColumbus, IN Home School Partners Program $5,000.00 
Bartholomew Consolidated School 
FoundationColumbus, IN Diversity Training Session Guest Speaker $,500.00 
Bartholomew Consolidated School 
FoundationColumbus, IN 006-07 Diversity Mini-Grants Support $,500.00 
Bartholomew Consolidated School 
FoundationColumbus, IN BCSC Diversity Award Annual Grant $,500.00 
Bartholomew County Sheriff’s Office Columbus, IN Water Rescue Team Boat Purchase $5,000.00 
Boys & Girls Clubs of Nash Edgecombe 
Counties, Inc.Rocky Mount, NC General support $10,000.00 
Brown County Big Brothers Big Sisters Nashville, IN Community Match for Activities Fund $,000.00 
Charities Aid Foundation - UK Darlintgon, UK 700 Club / Emma Project $5,000.00 
Charities Aid Foundation - UK Daventry, UK TimeTalk $5,000.00 
Charities Aid Foundation - UK Huddersfield, UK Fartown High School $5,000.00
Charities Aid Foundation - UK Darlington, UK Freebrough Specialist Engineering College $5,000.00 
Charities Aid Foundation - UK Johannesburg, 
South AfricaIthemba Institute of Technology $50,000.00 
Casa Del Migrante Juarez, Mexico Program support and repairs $5,000.00 
Catholic Charities Inc. Jamestown, NY Children’s Interview Room $,400.00 
Charleston Orphan House, Inc. North Charleston, 
SC Educational support for Bakker Career Center 
programs within the Carolina Youth Development 
Center$5,000.00 
Chautauqua Striders, Inc. Jamestown, NY Support for ‘The Light House’ tutoring program $,000.00 
Children’s Museum of Indianapolis Indianapolis, IN To support the Power of Children: Making a Difference 
exhibit$50,000.00 
CitiHope International Inc. Belarus, Russia CitiHope’s 0th Commemoration of Chernobyl 
Disaster (Medical Humanitarian Airlift to Belarus)$5,000.00 
City of Columbus Columbus, IN Robert Garton Veterans Plaza $,50.00 
City of Columbus Columbus, IN Urban Design Fit & Analysis work done by Koetter, 
Kim & Associates$179,859.0 
City of Lake Mills Lake Mills, IA Support for the Lake Mills Fire Department $,900.00 
City of Stoughton Stoughton, WI $,140 to Fire Department to purchase computer 
hardware; $7,860 for the Stoughton Area EMS to 
purchase equipmet for new ambulance.$10,000.00 
Clovis Municipal Schools Clovis, NM Support for The Arts Academy at Bella Vista $,100.00 
Columbus Area Arts Council Columbus, IN 005 General Operating Support $0,000.00 
Columbus Area Arts Council Columbus, IN Support for the Sculpture Invitational $10,000.00 
Columbus Area Arts Council Columbus, IN 006 General Operating Support $0,000.00 
Columbus Area Chamber of Commerce 
Foundation Connected Community 
PartnershipColumbus, IN General Support $50,000.00 
9Columbus Indiana Philharmonic Columbus, IN Sponsorship for ‘A Tribute to Mr. Miller’ Concert $0,000.00 
Columbus Museum of Art and Design Columbus, IN Doodles, Drafts & Designs Sponsor $5,000.00 
Columbus Park Foundation  
  Columbus, IN Landscape design work on the 8th Street 
Roundabout Project$6,05.00 
Columbus Regional Hospital 
FoundationColumbus, IN Support for Healthy Communities Initiative to produce 
an informational DVD on meth$4,000.00 
Columbus Service League Columbus, IN Freedom Field Playground Project for physically 
challenged kids$100,000.00 
Courage Center Minneapolis, MN Support for Vocational Services Program $10,000.00 
Crisis Ministries Charleston, SC Support the update of the family shelter kitchen $10,000.00 
Cultural Development Foundation of 
MemphisMemphis, TN Support for the Cultural Arts Foundation $5,000.00 
Decatur County United Fund, Inc. Greensburg, IN 006 Contribution $7,14.00 
Duke University - Center for Leadership 
and Public ValuesDurham, NC US-Southern Africa Center for Leadership and Public 
Values-Emerging Leaders Program$40,000.00 
Eastside YMCA Jamestown, NY Support of the family night program $,600.00 
Ecumenical Assembly of Bartholomew 
County ChurchesColumbus, IN Support for ‘Love Songs for Love Chapel’ $6,000.00 
El Paso Center for Chlidren El Paso, TX Transitional living program for homeless teenage 
mothers$5,000.00 
Franklin Boys & Girls Club Franklin, IN General Operating Support $,500.00 
Friends of Shawe & Pope John Schools 
Inc.Madison, IN Friends for the Future Campaign $10,000.00 
Girls Inc. Seymour, IN Programming at the new facility $5,000.00 
Gleaners Food Bank Indianapolis, IN General Operating Support $5,000.00 
Golden Child Ministries Memphis, TN General Support $,500.00 
Grace Fellowship Mission Church Seymour, IN To purchase kitchen supplies $,000.00 
Greater Twin Cities United Way Minneapolis, MN 006 Contribution $161,16.00 
Guadalupe Center of Immokalee Immokalee, FL Center for Family Education $7,500.00 
Hawcreek-Flat Rock Area Endowment Hope, IN $5K towards challenge grant of $10K $5,000.00 
Hawcreek-Flat Rock Area Endowment Hope, IN 006 General Promotion of the Endowment $1,000.00 
Human Services, Inc. Columbus, IN 006 General Support for Horizon House $5,000.00 
Indiana Achievement Awards Indianapolis, IN 006 IAA Program Sponsor $1,000.00 
Indiana Grantmakers Alliance Indianapolis, IN Support for the fall conference November 9-10 $5,000.00 
Indiana University Purdue University 
ColumbusColumbus, IN Matching Grant - The Cummins Campaign for IUPUC $00,000.00 
Indiana Youth Services Association Indianapolis, IN Platinum sponsor for ‘Celebrate Youth 006 Event’. $5,000.00 
Indianapolis Opera Indianapolis, IN 006 Educational Outreach Support $10,000.00 
Indianapolis Opera Indianapolis, IN Support for the Angela Brown Christmas Special $5,000.00 
Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra Indianapolis, IN Support for sending BCSC students to the 
Symphony’s 007 Young People’s Discovery Concerts$,000.00 
Infinity Performing Arts Program Jamestown, NY General Program Support $5,000.00 
Iowa Foster and Adoptive Parents 
AssociationAnkeny, IA General Support $4,600.00 
Jackson County United Fund Seymour, IN 006 Contribution $9,75.00 
Jefferson County United Way Madison, IN 006 Contribution $,8.00 
Jennings County United Way North Vernon, IN 006 Contribution $1,64.00 
9  94Johnson County Community Foundation 
Inc.Franklin, IN 006 Starlight Gala $1,50.00 
Joint Neighborhood Project, Inc. Jamestown, NY Purchase shoes for every student in the program $,000.00 
Kidscommons Children’s Museum Columbus, IN Support of Winter Carnivale - Jamaica $1,500.00 
Lake Mills Area Ministerial Association 
Inc.Lake Mills, IA General Support $,500.00 
Leaders of Tomorrow Memphis, TN Support for Leaders of Tomorrow $,500.00 
Legal Momentum New York, NY 006 General Support $1,500.00 
LeMoyne-Owen College Memphis, TN Campaign for revitalization of the college $100,000.00 
LeMoyne-Owen College Community 
Development CorpMemphis, TN Project Second Chance $5,000.00 
Lincoln-Central Neighborhood Family 
CenterColumbus, IN Benefit Performance $7,900.00 
Madison Area Literacy Council Madison, WI General Program Support $5,000.00 
Mary Rigg Neighborhood Center Indianapolis, IN The Fostering Independence Program $5,000.00 
Memphis Cultural Arts Enrichment 
CenterMemphis, TN Watoto de Afrika Dance Troupe $5,000.00 
Metro United Way of Clark County Jeffersonville, IN 006 Contribution $1,105.00 
Metro United Way of Floyd County Jeffersonville, IN 006 Contribution $19.00 
National Society of Black Engineers Indianapolis, IN Support for the development of NSBE-IAE high 
school outreach program$5,000.00 
Northern Kentucky Area Development 
DistrictFlorence, KY Designated program support for the Area Agency on 
Aging$5,000.00 
Password Community Mentoring Inc. Indianapolis, IN Program Support $,000.00 
People Serving People Inc. Minneapolis, MN Support for the Workforce Development Program 
which includes kitchen training, other job training 
preparation and job placement.$5,000.00 
Piqua Area United Way Piqua, OH 006 Contribution $19.00 
Putnam County Adult Literacy Council Cookeville, TN GEMS Project Support $10,000.00 
Rocky Mount Area United Way Rocky Mount, NC 006 Contribution $57,500.00 
Rocky Mount Children’s Museum Rocky Mount, NC Imperial Centre to support the Planetarium in the 
Children’s Museum$100,000.00 
School on Wheels Corp.  
   Indianapolis, IN General Support - Corporate Partners in Philanthropy 
Initiatives / Homeward Bound Walk$4,500.00 
Seymour First Church of the Nazarene Seymour, IN Celebrate Recovery Program - support for monthly 
programs, curriculum, books, literature, and outreach 
activities.$9,000.00 
Shelby County United Fund, Inc. Shelbyville, IN 006 Contribution $4,51.00 
Spotlight on Nursing Indianapolis, IN Nursing Scholarships $1,000.00 
St. Vincent Jennings Hospital 
FoundationNorth Vernon, IN Inaugural Golf Tournament $10,000.00 
Su Casa Columbus Inc. Columbus, IN Purchase of a new copy machine $1,500.00 
The Findlay-Hancock County 
Community FoundationFindlay, OH For THE FAMILY CENTER: $5K designated to Chopin 
Hall & $5K designated to Hancock Christian Clearing 
House for food programs & assistance with utilities for 
the needy$10,000.00 
The Greater Indianapolis Progress 
CommitteeIndianapolis, IN Indianapolis Center for Educational Entrepreneurship. $50,000.00 
The Julian Center Indianapolis, IN General Support $1,500.00 
The Oasis - Children’s Advocate Center Clovis, NM General Support $,900.00 95  Trident United Way North Charleston, 
SC 006 Contribution $4,591.00 
Trident United Way North Charleston, 
SC Safe Moves Sustainability $10,000.00 
United Communities Ministries Rocky Mount, NC General Operating Support $5,000.00 
United Fund of Dearborn County Lawrenceburg, IN 006 Contribution $7.00 
United Negro College Fund Indianapolis, IN 005-006 Annual Campaign $0,000.00 
United Way of Bartholomew County Columbus, IN 005-06 Local NAACP Student Scholarships $,500.00 
United Way of Bartholomew County Columbus, IN 006 Contribution $64,57.00 
United Way of Bartholomew County Columbus, IN Support for Council for Youth Development - Local 
Matching Grant$10,000.00 
United Way of Bartholomew County Columbus, IN Partial match for the 007 campaign paid in 006 
- $70K for UW Center; $5K for the Volunteer Action 
Center; $155K to support the Children & Youth Focus 
Area$50,000.00 
United Way of Bloomington & Monroe 
County, Inc.Bloomington, IN 006 Contribution $5,795.00 
United Way of Central Indiana Indianapolis, IN 006 Contribution $48,04.00 
United Way of Dane County, Inc. Madison, WI 006 Contribution $1,995.00 
United Way of Eastern New Mexico, Inc. Clovis, NM 006 Contribution $5,400.00 
United Way of El Paso County El Paso, TX 006 Contribution $,60.00 
United Way of Fayette County Connersville, IN 006 Contribution $40.00 
United Way of Greater Cincinnati 
Northern KentuckyFlorence, KY 006 Contribution $5,801.00 
United Way of Hancock County Findlay, OH 006 Contribution $11,788.00 
United Way of Johnson County Franklin, IN 006 Contribution $0,956.00 
United Way of Lawrence County Bedford, IN 006 Contribution $576.00 
United Way of Metropolitan Nashville Nashville, TN 006 Contribution $5,688.00 
United Way of North Central Iowa Mason City, IA 006 Contribution $,47.00 
United Way of Putnam County Cookeville, TN 006 Contribution $5,959.00 
United Way of Scott County Scottsburg, IN 006 Contribution $,544.00 
United Way of Southern Chautauqua 
CountyJamestown, NY 006 Contribution $88,584.00 
United Way of the Central Savannah 
River Area, Inc.Augusta, GA 006 Campaign Contribution $1,71.00 
United Way of the Mid-South Memphis, TN 006 Contribution $,86.00 
UTOPIA Wildlife Rehabilitators, Inc. Hope, IN Purchase of an In-Focus Projector $1,000.00 
Washington State University  
FoundationPullman, WA William D. Ruckelshaus Policy Consensus Center $100,000.00 
WFYI TelePlex Indianapolis, IN Communities Building Community $5,000.00 
Wishard Memorial Foundation Indianapolis, IN Support for the Pecar Health Center $10,000.00 
Y-Med, Inc. Columbus, IN Board Training $8,500.00 
Youth Villages Inc. Arlington, TN Designated to Recruiting Adoptive Families for 
Waiting Children in the Upper Cumberland Region$5,000.00 
Total Grants $3,820,115.0396   Environment and Safety
98   Environment and SafetyCummins Inc.
500 Jackson Street
Columbus, IN 4701 USA
(81) 77-5000
www.cummins.com
Production Notes
Designed by: Cummins Corporate Communications
Written by: Cummins Corporate Communications
Printing by: The Merrick Printing Company
Printing Responsibly
This report is printed on Productolith Matte, made 
with a minimum of 10% post-consumer recycled 
fiber and processed elemental chlorine free (ECF). 
All paper in this report is produced to adhere to 
strict environmental and socioeconomic standards 
in accordance with the Principles and Criteria of the 
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).
Printed in the USA.