Makers of tomorrowCYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
WELCOME TO  
INNOVATION ZONECYBERCOM +  
SMART FACTORIES = TRUEIOT CONTROLS WATER  
AND WASTE IN HELSINKISAFER OPERATIONS WITH 
 CONNECTED SIMULATORS
28 29 30 26This is Cybercom’s (reg. no. 559025-7001) eighth Annual Sustainability 
Report. The most recent Sustainability Report was published in April 2017. The Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with the requirements set forth in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL) and GRI G4, Core Option. The disclosures required under ÅRL and GRI are mainly found on pages 36–44. A complete list is provided in the GRI Index on page 49. The auditor’s opinion on the statutory sustainability report is on page 51.
The Sustainability Report also serves as Cybercom’s annual report to the UN 
Global Compact. Cybercom has been a member of the Global Compact since 2011. The Sustainability Report is not subject to external review.Contents
MAKING CYBERCOM
04About Cybercom
06CEO’s comment
08World and market
10Strategy
12Targets and outcomes
13Business model
14Offerings
18Employees
MAKING TOMORROW
24Our mission: a smarter future
26Welcome to Innovation Zone
27IZ and Fortum are hacking for sustainable energy
27Easier commute on the way in Gothenburg
28Cybercom + Smart Factories = true
28AR as a weapon against dementia
29Cybercom supports young media users
29Connected helmet protects construction workers
29IoT controls water and waste in Helsinki
30Safer operations with connected simulators and shared knowledge base
30An inclusive municipality
31The importance of green spaces
31PostNord hits back at cyberfraudsters
32Future proofing beyond technology
MAKING PROGRESS
36Stakeholders and dialogue 
36Material sustainability aspects
37Policy and management 
38Employees: Disclosures and key data
41Clients
42Environment: Disclosures and key data
43Risks
44Executive Leadership Team
45Economic performance
49GRI Index 
51Organisation
51Board of directors’ signatures
51Auditor’s report on the statutory  
sustainability report
2
31
10
186
27
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017The fourth Industrial Revolution is on the way. Virtually every company and 
 organisation is stepping into a digital reality. And things are moving fast. For 
 Cybercom, this is our home playing field. We are making tomorrow, today. 
We help our clients capture the opportunities of digitalisation. We provide 
 innovative, secure and sustainable solutions in IT and communications technology 
by combining technical edge and strong business insight. This applies whether the 
issue is transforming products into services, developing new business models or 
helping the public sector get closer to citizens. 
We are found where technology and business development meet. We think big.  
We test, we learn and we adapt. And the distance from planning to action is short. 
The single objective is for our clients to succeed in the connected world.  
This is how we are making tomorrow, today .MAKERS OF TOMORROW 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017  1MAKING  
CYBERCOM Based on Cybercom’s values and inclusive culture,  
we are developing skills, client offerings and employees. 
This is how we are making Cybercom.MAKING  
CYBERCOM SWEDEN
FINLAND
DENMARKPOLAND
INDIA
Five-year review Distributed value
Operational performance and key figures1) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Operating income, SEKm 1,463.0 1,353.9 1,259.6 1,262.9 1,195.1
Operating profit after depreciation and amortisation, SEKm2) 112.5 67.8 38.3 65.8 60.2
Total assets, SEKm 978.4 895 879.4 1,265.9 1,228.7
Average number of employees 1,250 1,217 1,169 1,222 1,180
Number of employees at end of year 1,262 1,203 1,218 1,307 1,267
Operating margin, % 7.7 5.0 3.0 5.2 5.0
Equity/assets, % 53 48 44 73 70
1)  A new Group was formed on 1 December 2015 in conjunction with Cybercom Holding’s acquisition of Cybercom Group. Accordingly, the multi- 
year review was prepared using a mix of the former Group and the new Group. The figures for the 2016 and forwards financial year pertain to Cybercom  Holding. For 2015, the figures for the full period pertain to Cybercom Group, while the figures at 31 December refer to Cybercom  
Holding. The figures for 2014 and before pertain to Cybercom Group.
2)  Operating profit after depreciation and amortisation refers to profit before impairment of goodwill and a capital loss on the sale of a subsidiary.
3)  As of 2017, the value of pro bono work for charity has been included in the “Charity” item under “Distributed value” in the total amount of  
SEK 900 thousand. In 2017, employees of Cybercom worked approximately 1,000 hours pro bono in various projects directed at increasing  interest in IT among young people in collaboration with Hello World and Universeum, as well as projects aimed at facilitating social integration for immigrants with a background in IT. The pro bono work corresponds to a value of SEK 465 thousand. Cybercom has also provided premises and ancillary services at no charge to Hello World, corresponding to a value of SEK 435 thousand.  Employee benefits, including social security contributions 57.6%
 Other external expenses 38.4% 
 Investment activities 1.8% 
 Net finance income/expense 0.2% 
 Taxes 2.0% 
 Charitable donations 0.1%3)This is Cybercom 
Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting firm that enables leading 
 com panies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of 
the  connected world. We are working every day to connect people, 
machines and services to make them work more smoothly together. 
Our consultants and the solutions they create take us all the way from e-services in the Nordic public sector to streamed media and driverless cars in Europe, eIDs, secure card payments and health apps to healthcare, connected cranes and lifts and smart industrial robots.Cybercom has been a privately owned company since 2015. Its main shareholders are JCE Group AB and Tequity AB. The company was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm from 1999 to 2015. Cybercom’s domestic markets are the Nordic region and Poland. The company also offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. Cybercom owns a joint  venture in India with Datamatics.
88%
BUSINESS WITH SUSTAINABILITY EFFECTS1,463.0
SEKM SALES 2017112.5
SEKM PROFIT AFTER DEPRECIATION 
AND AMORTISATION
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 4 ABOUT CYBERCOMPOLAND
INDIA
Vision
Our vision is to be our clients’ most trusted business 
partner in the connected world. 
Business concept
We help our clients capture the opportunities of 
the connected world. We provide innovative and 
 sustainable solutions by combining technical edge 
and strong business insight.  
ValuesAlma Media
ASSA ABLOY
Finnish Population Register Centre
Ericsson
Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV)
Husqvarna
IKEA
KONE
Swedish Enforcement Authority
MTV Finland
SAAB
Swedish Tax Agency
Sony Mobile
TomTom
Finnish National Agency for Education
Volvo CarsA SELECTION OF OUR CLIENTS
Innovation
TrustPassion 
1,262
44
21EMPLOYEES
ASSIGNMENTS IN  
TWENTYONE COUNTRIESNATIONALITIES
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ABOUT CYBERCOM 5“All Cybercom operations are developing strongly and in 
the desired strategic direction, albeit at somewhat different 
pace. We are following our strategic plan with good results 
and are within reach of our targets.”Good prospects and 
major challenges
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 6 CEO'S COMMENTlook back with pride at all 
we have achieved. We are growing, increasing the 
share of sustainable busi-
ness and improving our 
profitability, year after year. With a brisk wind in our sails, Cybercom is developing 
very favourably in a strong market, accel-
erated by a positive macroeconomic situa-tion. All Cybercom operations are deliver -
ing strong development in the desired  strategic direction, albeit at somewhat 
 different pace. We are following our stra-
tegic plan with good results and we are within reach of our targets. 
However, the 17 global Sustainable 
Development Goals demand more forceful action by Cybercom and our clients. ICT and technical advancements are playing a major role in the global economy and in sustainable development. Digitalisation 
is behind the most important forces of 
change this decade. The industrialisation of IT, including the focus on 5G, cloud ser -
vices, cybersecurity and disruptive technol-
ogies like artificial intelligence (AI), the 
Internet of Things and blockchain technol-ogy will be affecting us at an accelerating rate in the next decade. And this is what the days of Cybercom consultants are 
made of. This is a thrilling evolution, but 
we are not stopping there. We see beyond technical developments and engage in the consequences of our solutions. Cyber -
com’s team of IT security experts are help-ing companies and society protect privacy, assets and systems. We are putting the new technologies in relation to the sus-tainability risks of our time to more effec-
tively craft the solutions of tomorrow, add 
business models and open new markets.
A client-based and agile approach 
to achieve Agenda 2030. Our business 
development has appealed to our clients and our relationships deepened during the year. We have chosen to work with fewer key clients in order to create higher, more 
long-term value. Successful deliveries of 
agile teams are one example. Cybercom’s agile approach is efficient and assures the quality of products and services whose 
functions are fit for purpose and focused 
on the user. We have been working this way for a long time with some of our industrial clients. Now we are growing with more agile teams in industry and in 
the public sector, which is a breakthrough 
and a distinct change compared to previ-ous purchasing patterns. I believe the agile approach is the way to reach the right 
solutions as swiftly and efficiently as possi-
ble. That benefits Cybercom, our develop-ers, our clients and our society.
We aim to work in close collaboration, 
to listen carefully and understand each cli-
ent’s unique situation and create the opti-
mal solution, for them and their customers or end users. Unique solutions that also contain scalable advantages that can be 
shared with others. I am utterly convinced 
that digitalisation and technical innovation can lead to reduced carbon emissions and better quality of life in many other areas. Cybercom supports the UN Global Com-
pact and the Global Sustainable Develop-
ment Goals. We see opportunities in the SDGs. Opportunities for stronger collabo-ration, scalable solutions and a swifter rate 
of change together with our clients. We 
have launched our Digital Sustainability offer as a driver of business innovation. We are training our sales force and manage-ment in Digital Sustainability and moni tor-
ing progress in our control system. 
 
We are the same, we are different, we are innovative. Our greatest challenge 
today is finding enough new colleagues 
and making sure that interest in technol-ogy is sparked in more young people and women. In response to this challenge, we are engaged in many different forums, 
such as career days, meet-ups, hackathons 
and events like Women in Tech. We are welcoming an increasing number of uni-versity students who are doing their 
degree projects in our organisation and 
have allocated additional resources to pro-vide guidance and mentorship. All of these efforts energise and enrich us and we feel that we are contributing to an important 
aspect of long-term social development. 
Although a global workforce is a strength in the IT sector, there is serious risk that we will soon be facing a shortage of skills in 
our industry throughout Europe. Global 
recruitment is one way of fending off this threat, but we need to keep educating more people at home to meet the demand.
We welcomed 425 new colleagues 
during the year, 96 of whom are women. Our target is 30 percent women at Cyber -
com by 2020, and if we continue at the 
same pace as during 2017, we are going 
to make it. Together, we are now 44 nationalities, 1,262 employees in five countries ranging in age from 20 to 67. Our mission is to boost the performance 
of all people – our clients, their customers, 
our employees and our fellow humans – in a connected world.
I strongly believe that when we see the 
individual in every employee, strengthen diversity, increase transparency and give people freedom coupled with responsibil-ity, we also create better conditions for success. Aimed at shortening internal deci-
sion paths, making the approach even 
more agile and reducing the distance between different parts of our organisa-tion, I eliminated one level of management 
in the Swedish operations during 2017. 
The International region, which was ori-ented towards international telecom oper -
ators, was also sold early in the year. In the new organisation, I have devoted focus 
and energy to Innovation and Sustainabil-
ity through collaboration across the group and joint client solutions and partnerships. We have introduced Innovation Zones with 
innovation teams in all Cybercom opera-
tions – they are the hub for new employee introduction, employee development and innovations. Change and innovation that create sustainable business for us and our 
clients are taking us forward. 
My thanks to all colleagues, clients and 
partners. Together, we made 2017 an out-
standing year. Now we are creating the 
future – We are Makers of tomorrow!
Stockholm, March 2018
Niklas Flyborg
President and CEO
I
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CEO'S COMMENT 7A changing world and  
a changing market
External drivers 
The scope and significance of digitalisation is enormous – we are 
in the midst of a fourth industrial revolution that affects us all. This is not only a technical shift. It is an utter transformation of 
how we interact with each other, including how we do business. 
Digitalisation, globalisation and urbanisation are moving us towards new ways of living. This is creating huge opportunities, but also brings challenges. The political, legal and financial arenas are being affected, and it looks like the decisions we make now will have more far-reaching consequences than ever before. Tech-
nical progress is moving at breakneck speed. Discerning opportu-
nities and risks, understanding consequences and managing developments as they occur will be critical. 
POSITIVE VALUES
Robotisation, automation and virtualisation are only a few com-ponents of digitalisation. They are enabling entirely new ways to solve problems and create value. Basically, it is all about the possi-
bility of collecting Big Data that is processed into information that 
provides input for decisions and action. 
The fifth generation network (5G) is expected to be as revolu-
tionary as the advent of the internet. 5G not only creates higher 
bandwidth for the consumer, it provides space for new activities 
that can develop and improve industry, healthcare, agriculture, communities and more. 5G also entails network complexity in terms of the number of user scenarios and a wide array of equip-
ment and data that require Artificial Intelligence (AI). 
DIGITAL BUSINESS EVOLUTION
Business design, industries, markets and organisations are going 
to fundamentally change in the next ten years.1) The digital busi-
ness evolution is continuously using new technology to integrate the physical and digital worlds and create new business models. 
Smart devices and machines that deliver increasingly insightful 
digital services, always and everywhere, are going to shape the future. We are moving towards an intelligent digital network that includes constantly connected people, machines, devices, con-
tent and services. The disruptive technology trends driving this 
future are creating intelligent, digital networking. 
AI is going to find its way into all existing technologies and cre-
ate entirely new tech categories. Predictions are that AI is going to break through big and, used properly, will create more flexible, 
insightful and autonomous systems. The physical and digital 
worlds will blend to create a natural and more absorbing digitally enhanced experience. AR (augmented reality) and VR (virtual real-ity) are two examples. The amount of data generated by things 
and products is growing exponentially and is going to require 
processing in central systems to an increasing extent. Digital trends, along with the opportunities activated by AI, are going Cybercom’s priorities are strenghtened by the increasingly digital and connected world, 
coupled with the ambitions of numerous actors to advance sustainable development. 
IoT  
CLOUD SERVICES18 .1 %
23.7 %
Source: Annual Nordic IoT market growth (2013–2019F) Annual Nordic cloud services market growth (2013–2016), Radar.
1) Gartner Top 10 Strategic Technology Trends for 2018 Globalisation
Sustainability
UrbanisationSharper focus on automation 
and managing changing client 
requirements
Social changes are driving 
demand for IT solutionsGlobalisation
Robotisation
MARKET GROWTH
MARKET GROWTH
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 8 WORLD AND MARKETto drive the next generation of business and create digital busi-
ness ecosystems. Business results will be delivered by a growing population of people and companies – machines, devices, con-
tent and services – that are linked in a single network. Social ben-
efit can also be delivered in the same way. This networking demands new and improved functionality that reduces friction and increases security. Blockchain technology is one example.
Digitalisation and sustainability  
work hand-in-glove. 
Companies are increasingly ready, willing and able to add positive value. Digitalisation and technical progress have made much of this possible. Going beyond reducing negative impact, companies are moving towards plus/minus zero or net positive impact on cli-
ents and the world. Many companies are reviewing their entire 
value chain and identifying opportunities. And many are develop-ing circular strategies and platforms for sharing. 
Dematerialisation and servicification are among the most 
important changes. This involves a shift from products to services, where the user receives equal or better service, but with lower use of natural resources. The transformation of the music indus-try when consumers began buying digital services instead of CDs or other physical products is one familiar example. A similar evo-
lution is occurring today in industries like transport, real estate 
and food. New companies are being formed that offer products that generate public benefit or help reduce emissions of green-house gases and climate impact. 
The widespread support of the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals and Agenda 2030 is perhaps the clearest sign of the will-ingness of business to contribute to sustainable development.Cybercom’s markets and priorities
All of Cybercom’s geographical and industrial markets are affected by the trends mentioned above. We are seeing major investments in the Nordic region to drive digitalisation in the 
 public sector to improve efficiency, cut costs and increase public 
benefit through new citizen-focused services. The industrial sec-tor in northern Europe, Cybercom’s main business segment, is developing new business and service models, often with digital 
support like IoT (Internet of Things). Assignments are more fre-
quently including cloud services, robot technology and machine learning. As more businesses are digitalised, software and system development is increasing dramatically in importance. To put it simply, that means market players with limited technical expertise 
must improve programming in terms of planning, development, 
maintenance, organisation and much more. Cybercom can make a big difference here as well. 
Cybercom is continuing in the direction stated in our strategy 
for the period of 2015–2018. This includes continuing the initia-tives in data visualisation, IoT, privacy and information security and cloud services. Cybercom is focused on being a key player in cloud services in the Nordics. We have entered into partnerships with Microsoft and Amazon, meaning that we can build solutions 
on their infrastructure. We are reinforcing our advisory services 
capacity. We are becoming increasingly proactive in how we approach the client and recommend solutions that advance  sustainability.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 WORLD AND MARKET 9Cybercom’s  
strategyA united Cybercom with a strong client offering is the key 
to success. Our innovative culture and open communication also strengthen Cybercom and our brand. Our strategy is 
based on three elements: clients, talent and collaboration. Cybercom is helping clients capture the opportunities of 
the connected world. We offer innovative and sustainable solutions by combining technical edge with strong business 
insight. The UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
entail opportunities for collaboration and new 
business for Cybercom. We are supporting the 
global SDGs by actively seeking assignments that contribute to sustainable development and measuring their sustainability effects. 
–  We build the business around our clients. 
–  Everyone has client responsibility (sales 
and/or delivery).
–  We have Group KAMs for prioritised clients 
and put long-term client relationships first.
–  We attract, develop and retain the best 
people.
–  Our consultants combine business skills with technical edge.
–  We are recognised as thought leaders 
in selected areas.We nurture talentWe reinforce client intimacy 
We embrace collaboration 
–  We leverage our capabilities across 
organisational boundaries.
–  Our common ways of working support team and project deliveries.
–  We reuse experiences to drive business 
development across units.1
2
3
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 STRATEGY 11Our targets
1
2
3SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS
4CLIENTS
5TYPE OF  ASSIGNMENT
6RECRUITMENT
7BUSINESS ETHICS
GROWTH
PROFITABILITYCybercom has defined seven target areas to keep 
the company moving in the right direction. 
TARGETS TARGET AREAS
Cybercom will increase the percentage 
of sustainable business with our clients. The assignments will contribute to sus-
tainable development and responsible 
use of finite resources.
Key accounts will generate 70% of sales, the ten largest clients 50% and no individual client will account for more than 15%. 
Cybercom will have even distribution 
between consultancy services and 
 turnkey commitments.
Cybercom’s net recruitment will be at least 5%, with focus on more equal 
gender distribution. Our workforce will 
be at least 30% women, as women earn 30% of degrees in technical fields. 
High ethics will be part of our DNA and 
define us and our business. All employees 
will receive training in Cybercom’s Code of Conduct and anti-corruption rules.
Cybercom will strive for growth of
5% per year over a business cycle. 
Cybercom will be one of the more 
 profitable companies among its peer 
competitors and achieve an operating 
margin of 10%.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 12 TARGETS AND OUTCOMESNet recruitment for the 
year was 4.9%.
8 %
7.7 %Net sales growth 8% (7) 
Operating margin 7.7% (5)Refers to Cybercom’s ten 
largest clients.
 Key accounts 46% (58)
 Ten largest clients 43% (44)
 Largest client 17% (14) Share of sustainable deals in 2016
 Share of sustainable deals in 2017
 Consultancy services 65% (63)
 Turnkey commitments 35% (27)
 Number of men 81% (82)
 number of women 19% (18)Cybercom’s business model 
We generate value for clients and revenues for  Cybercom in several ways. Our business model is 
based on either continuous billing or fixed price com-
mitments. We deliver in agile teams, expert assign-
ments, project or service deliveries and licensing. OUTCOMES COMMENTS
Projects 
Project deliveries are based on Cybercom taking charge of and delivering a project (such as a particular solution) or taking on a greater commitment. The cli-
ent pays based on effect and value. As a result, the 
project may be delivered at an agreed fixed price or on a continuous billing basis.
Services 
Service deliveries are based on Cybercom taking responsibility for a system, feature or service and its maintenance and uptime. The client pays a fixed price 
per month, but the service may include a variable 
component related to volume or time. 
Expertise
Expertise assignments mean that Cybercom offers one or more consultants to meet a particular need for the client. The client pays for the people, skills and 
time expended.
Licensing
In the Licensing Model, the client has access to soft-
ware developed and owned by Cybercom in  exchange 
for a licence, royalty and/or maintenance fee. 
Teams
Team deliveries means that Cybercom offers teams of 6–8 employees who apply agile methods to sdevelopment. The client pays a fixed price for 
the entire team.Anti-corruption training
 Board of directors 100% (100)
 Group management 80% (100)
 Other employees 58% (70)46%69%
43%88%
17%
35%65%
19%
100%81%
80%
58%
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 BUSINESS MODEL 13We always strive to be the client’s most trusted business partner in  
the connected world. We listen carefully and offer our clients innovative  
and sustainable total solutions based on four main areas of expertise. Digital sustainability as a  
driver of business innovation
91% (91) 50% (21) 72% (73)
PERCENTAGE OF CLIENTS THAT WILL PROBABLY 
OR DEFINITELY CONTINUE TO ENGAGE CYBERCOMCUSTOMER SATISFACTION  
INDEX1)PERCENTAGE OF CLIENTS SEE US AS MOST TRUSTED 
BUSINESS PARTNER IN THE CONNECTED WORLD
1)  The Kantar Sifo average index is 66, based on 7,000 interviews in the IT/Tech industry – northern Europe – B2B.“Every other client 
considers us their  
most trusted business 
partner – that is a huge 
feather in our cap.”
Bo Strömqvist,  
Head of Sales Cybercom Group
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 14 OFFERINGSCybercom’s areas of expertise
50%
30%
10%
10%Always near the client 
Our vision is to be the client’s preferred business partner in the 
connected world. Reinforcing client intimacy is a fundamental aspect of Cybercom’s strategy and essential to successfully sup-
porting clients as required in today’s fast-changing environment. 
By collaborating closely with clients, we shorten the path from 
idea to commercialised product or service. Cybercom brings skills, 
resources and support to this process. We also support our clients 
in reaching their customers and consumers in a smarter way. 
Here, we contribute qualified business development and advisory services. Innovation Zone (see page 26) is yet another example of Cybercom’s client-centred capability, approach and delivery. 
On the organisational level, our vision and strategy call for us 
to build the business around our clients. Everyone has business and client responsibility (sales and/or delivery). We prioritise  loyalty and long-term relationships and have Group KAMs. Digitalisation: We identify digital opportunities, 
build solutions and create measurable business results. By harnessing new technology, we can 
take small steps for continuous improve ments 
or longer leaps to realise innovative ideas to 
meet client needs and realise potential. 
IoT/Internet of Things: Cybercom possesses world-leading expertise in trends, technologies and opportunities to take full advantage of 
connection.
IT security: Security is everything in the 
 connected world. With the right expertise, 
methods and tools, we help clients securely manage all data. 
Cloud services: Cybercom is the client’s agile 
partner, from design to operational services. 
We help clients utilise cloud resources and 
 traditional virtual resources, efficiently and 
 flexibly.
The percentage of Cybercom’s total business generated by each area of expertise is an estimate,  
as many assignments include multiple areas. 
Advising on digital strategy 
and business developmentADVISORY
Prototyping and innovating 
digital business solutionsINNOVATION
Agile development of 
secure and ef/f_icient digital 
solutionsCREATION
Testing to ensure fully 
working digital solutionsTESTING
Manage, monitor digital 
solutions for constant 
improvementsMANAGEMENT
Advising on digital strategy 
and business developmentADVISORY
Prototyping and innovating 
digital business solutionsINNOVATION
Agile development of 
secure and ef/f_icient digital 
solutionsCREATION
Testing to ensure fully 
working digital solutionsTESTING
Manage, monitor digital 
solutions for constant 
improvementsMANAGEMENTPartner throughout the project life cycle 
Cybercom has the skills and capacity required to be the client’s partner throughout the project, from strategic advice to operation. 
Strategic advice
Cybercom analyses the client’s operations and provides strategic advice on digital development. 
Advice is always clearly 
linked to the business and measurable results, based on our under -
standing of what can and 
should be developed.Innovation
Cybercom’s innovation services make clients ready for sustained competitiveness, profit-
ability and success. We 
test new technologies and build prototypes. We bring the new methods and approaches required 
in a changing market. Development 
Cybercom’s develop-ment method is based on agility and transpar -
ency. In partnership with 
our clients, we create 
new products and ser -
vices that streamline resource utilisation, automate and open the 
door to new markets.Testing 
Cybercom gives its  clients access to a full-
scale test organisation – so they do not have 
to invest in and create 
their own. The Cyber -
com Test Center offers all the infra structure 
and expertise necessary 
for thorough testing, 
which is becoming increasingly important to match the require-
ments of mature users. Operation and 
 managementCybercom takes care of all aspects of operation and management, from 
development of man-
agement models for large organisations to day-to-day manage-ment, technology and 
support. Along with our 
partners, Amazon Web Services and Microsoft, Cybercom is a leading 
cloud services vendor 
in the Nordics.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OFFERINGS 15Digital Sustainability 
Cybercom has developed a process that helps companies achieve 
net positive impact on society. In practice, that means companies give more than they take – their products add more public benefit 
when they are used than they require in production. 
Cybercom’s process for developing net positive businesses is 
based on Business Model Canvas methodology, where we add 
a global sustainability filter. The sustainability filter is based on studying whether innovations, business models or products 
will work in a world of 11 billion people – the projected global 
population in 2100. Cybercom supports clients on their journey towards net  positivity 
from initial inventory and through the implementation phase. We divide the process into three main phases. First, the company’s 
current contribution to sustainable development is assessed. There-
after, future potential net positivity is evaluated. Finally, the project transitions to implementation and making the sustainable  tomorrow happen. Aiming for net positivity
Cybercom’s greatest opportunity to make a difference resides in helping others 
see the opportunities provided by technology and use technology to develop 
towards Agenda 2030. When we succeed, our solutions result in a positive 
footprint that is bigger than the negative impact that our business produces. In this way, we are shifting our focus from internal risks to external opportunities.
Digital solutions for sustainable development 
Technology and innovation are essential to develop companies, 
cities and communities in a sustainable direction. Today’s tech-nology can take us a long way, but we have to be smart about 
how we use it. That requires us to change our habits, organisa-
tions and regulations. Cybercom has an important role to play here: we explain to clients and decision-makers which underlying digital solutions are essential for a sustainable world. Without 
encryption, compression algorithms, cloud storage and real-time 
data, smart buildings, smart mobility and smart consumption are all out of reach. That is why we participate in contexts like the UN Global Compact Private Sector Forum and that is why we develop solutions for digital sustainability. During the year, we 
began categorising and tracking our client assignments and 
 solutions according to their contribution to attaining the global 
Sustainable Development Goals. 
Cybercom’s services contribute mainly to six sustainability effects:
Energy savings: Cybercom’s client, their customer or the end 
user can reduce energy use. 
Dematerialisation: Physical materials or products are converted 
to digital or electronic form or the same level of functionality is 
delivered with fewer or zero materials.
Servicification: The transition from product to service by a 
Cybercom client or the end user. Functionality is equal or better 
while negative impact on the environment and society is reduced 
or reversed to positive. 
Reduced use of resources: Reduced or zero usage of non- 
renewable resources or other natural capital. Security: More secure digital space and/or better protection 
of privacy. 
Other product or service development: Development in 
 addition to the above that contributes to attaining the global 
SDGs and sustainable development. 
We also categorise our initiatives according to the level of 
activity on Cybercom’s part. The goal is to be even more proactive in our sales efforts to make a bigger difference for our clients and for sustainable development. The categories are relative, specific, active and proactive contributions. 
Relative contributions: We help the client improve relative 
to their own past results. Example: Reduced waste volumes or smarter mobility, where Cybercom contributes a cloud service. 
Specific contributions: We bring sustainability skills to ordinary 
assignments. Example: Development of a control system for 
greenhouse lighting to optimally utilise energy in sustainable food production. 
Active contributions: We help the client develop new solutions 
that promote sustainable development, where sustainability was 
not part of the client relationship from the beginning. Example: 
A new e-commerce platform where users are encouraged to live and consume sustainably. 
Proactive contributions: We are proactive, identify oppor -
tunities, present novel ideas and perform assignments in which 
sustainability drives digital innovation. Example: Shift a customer’s business model and offering from products to services and  solutions. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 16 OFFERINGSDIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY PROCESS (DSP)
TODAY1PHASE 1 | Current status
Assessment of the company’s current contributions to sustainable develop-
ment and readiness to grasp future 
opportunities. TOMORROW2PHASE 2 | Potential Evaluation of future potential for net positivity. NEXT STEP3PHASE 3 | Implementation Make the sustainable tomorrow happen. 
23
TODAYTOMORRO WNEXT STEP
Trend
scanningCapacity
scanningTransition
matrix
Impact in
societyPotential v alue
propositionImplementa tion
strategyMonda y
morning tasks
Current 
contextFuture v alue
propositions
1GLOB AL
INNO VATION
FILTERGLOB AL
INNO VATION
FILTER
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OFFERINGS 17Makers, because we make digital happen. We believe in talking less, doing more. We are 
the client’s partner in a changing world, where we take on business challenges with digital 
tools. We know that innovative and sustainable solutions are as much about technology 
as what the tech can actually do. Tomorrow, because we want to create a better tomorrow. 
Digital development and sustainable development should always be synonymous. We 
learn from experience, benefit from our collective capabilities and are creative in how we 
apply technology. This is how we are creating solutions for a sustainable digital future.We are Makers of tomorrowI am inspired by kids, especially my niece Vera, who is seven.  
She is growing up in a time when respect for gender and integration  
is unquestioned. There is no prejudice or bias in her thoughts about the 
world and the future, which provides a lot of space for ideas and creativity. 
We adults should learn more from children. Ellionore Jacobsson
SENIOR CONSULTANT
I am interested! In people, outer space, science fiction and technology. I love 
playing sports and am inspired by how technology can, for example,  
help people with spinal cord injuries walk again or people with dementia 
remember things, as in my last assignment. It is very rewarding.
I was looking for a job where I could make a difference to our society. 
Cybercom offered me that platform, and I found my dream job. It is important to have the courage to act and think innovatively while always understanding the consequences. Ask for advice in difficult situations.
Sofia Ljunggren
CHIEF SECURITY OFFICER
Bartosz Libner 
INNOVATION LEAD & SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
18 EMPLOYEESI want to design the products and services of tomorrow 
that make life easier and contribute to sustainable 
development. To reach everyone in society, solutions 
absolutely must be user-friendly.Einstein said, “If at first the idea is not absurd, then there is no 
hope for it” – he is my kind of hero! Constantly learning new 
things is so enriching. Cybercom must support employees in 
this, provide opportunities for various kinds of assignments. 
Being a consultant is the most fun job ever.
I am energised by being the catalyst of change journeys, by seeing 
companies, organisations and people grow and develop. Transformation 
isn’t always about companies and money. Technology can change 
behaviour, and we bring that awareness with us in our solutions.
At Cybercom, I have learned that teamwork and collaboration 
are the keys to success, internally and externally. The atmosphere here is friendly and open. That takes my stress level down, because I know that if something unexpected happens, my colleagues will be ready to help.
Tomi Asp
FULL-STACK DEVELOPERKatarina Cornelius
HEAD OF BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION 
I like the brilliance found in simplicity. Systems and solu-
tions do not always have to be complex. A relatively simple 
system can have huge impact on a company. The most 
important thing is to identify the real need and work with 
a solution that actually meets that need.
Magnus Skebäck
HEAD OF CYBERCOM GOTHENBURG
Sini Lindroos
SERVICE DESIGNER
Piotr Kuszewski
ANDROID DEVELOPER 
EMPLOYEES 19As a Cybercom colleague, you are 
part of a network of about 1,300 people. In addition to the colleagues 
and the culture, Cybercom is dis-
tinguished by striving to make a  better tomorrow and by its skills, 
innovativeness and concern. 
Culture and colleagues 
Our values of innovation, passion and trust inform our culture and shape our working days. We are passionate about Cybercom’s 
mission, “Boosting your performance in 
the connected world”. And we are thrilled and energised by the prospect of constant 
development. 
We Cybercom people are the same and 
we are different. We all share a passion for 
innovation and development and a down-to-earth approach. We are also a diverse 
collection of personalities and profiles. In 
our about 1,300 people-strong network 19 percent are women and 81 percent are men. Our youngest colleague is 20 and the oldest is 67. We come from 44 different 
countries and represent a wide range of 
skills. Anyone looking for expertise, whether that means in-depth industry knowledge or digital tools on the leading edge, will not have to look far. We have 
the breadth it takes. Better tomorrow 
We put high demands on the solutions we create and on what our solutions achieve. 
We do not work with technology for its 
own sake or for just any purpose. Digital development and sustainable develop-ment should be synonymous. Our solu-
tions should be innovative, scalable and 
secure. And they should boost profitability and sustainability in terms of saving energy, finite resources and costs.
Skills and development
Cybercom is an arena of skills, where peo-ple gain experience from different indus-
tries, companies and organisations. And 
opportunities to work across the field of IT and develop in various roles. We are con-vinced that we learn most in our assign-ments – after all, our work is immersed in 
digitalisation. That is why Cybercom’s 
breadth and development potential are some of the best we have to offer.
Cybercom people care about their 
development and prefer to control it them-
selves. The team leader supports and 
coaches as and when required. Boosting Your Development, Cybercom’s platform for learning and development, is available to help. This is where opportunities, 
responsibility for individual development, 
a model for learning and development and a professional development process are found. Everything is aimed at boosting everyone’s development so that each indi-
vidual can reach their full potential.
 Innovation Zone is our hub – how we 
ensure that Cybercom constantly develops 
in the latest technologies. Within the 
framework of Innovation Zone, employees 
and clients have the opportunity to jointly evaluate ideas, perform tests, develop pro-totypes and lead pilot projects in a creative environment.
A company that cares 
Cybercom cares. People who work for Cybercom are offered competitive pay 
and generous, relevant benefits. Being an 
attractive employer is all about listening and constantly developing. Attractive offices, centrally located to make it easy to use public transport, are an important 
aspect. We strive to make our offices 
welcoming meeting places for creativity and innovation. A small but telling example is our big café rooms with table 
tennis or other team activities in all of our 
countries. We have adjusted the benefits package according to feedback from our  employees. 
Cybercom also cares about employee 
social security. The precise arrangements vary among markets, but all offer advan-tageous insurance policies. Employees in Finland and Sweden are covered by collec-
tive agreements that include benefits like 
pensions and parental leave supplement.
Boosting Your Development I think being a Maker is about having the right attitude – striving to be an 
expert in your field, contributing and enjoying solving problems. You can 
always acquire knowledge – it is your attitude that takes you all the way.The internet is a fantastic innovation that lets people from all over the 
world interact. It brings us closer together! I want to contribute to a society 
that is totally connected – and secure. Right now I am working in the active 
safety department for one of our automotive industry clients.
Yanting Larsen
UX & FRONTEND DEVELOPERColeb Mujurizi
IT SECURITY CONSULTANT
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 20 EMPLOYEESMy head is always spinning with ideas about how products and services  
can be made better, through an entirely new solution or an optimisation. 
Along with dedication to finding find new technology to deliver  
the improvements, this is a really big part of my life.  
And, wow, I get paid for doing it!Being a programmer is like being a kid in a toy store. You can play 
with the technology in a way that a lot of other professions don’t 
allow for. That is how you find that extra tiny detail that makes all 
the difference in the world. It has taken me all the way to becoming 
a selected project manager at the international level for 
development of the new Jakarta EE standard.
89%
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES 
WITH UNIVERSITY DEGREESYEARS AVERAGE TERM  
OF EMPLOYMENT4
AVERAGE AGE37
NATIONALITIES44 11
YEARS OF EXPERIENCE  
ON AVERAGEI am proud of the business my colleagues and I have built up in Kista. We get 
along so well and the atmosphere is outstanding. And of course I am very 
proud to have been nominated “Manager of the Year” by my colleagues! 
I appreciate our capacity to work with the client to deliver big value in 
very little time. We work in cross-functional agile teams with focus on 
MVP (minimum viable product). That is an incredibly effective recipe!
Daniel Myrberg
COMPETENCE TEAM LEAD & CONSULTANT,  
CURRENTLY ON PARENTAL LEAVEIvar Grimstad
PRINCIPAL CONSULTANT
INTERNATIONAL JAVA CHAMPION & JUG LEADER
Kit Gullbrandson
HEAD OF CYBERCOM STOCKHOLM/KISTA
Daniel Moberg
FRONTEND COMPETENCE TEAM LEAD
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 21 EMPLOYEESMAKING  
TOMORROW MAKING  
TOMORROW 
Cybercom makes companies and organisations successful  
in the connected world. With technical edge and in-depth 
business skill, we build sustainable and innovative solutions. 
This is how we are making tomorrow.
 Our mission:  
A smarter future
Cybercom is making tomorrow by equipping companies and 
organisations for success in the digital world. We offer our clients 
innovative total solutions. We begin with four areas where 
digitalisation can generate major and positive changes.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 24 OUR MISSIONCommerce 
Digitalisation is not only affecting individual product character -
istics, but also business models. This often involves servicifica-
tion, where company offerings transition from products to 
 services. To succeed, this requires deep understanding of what 
actually creates value, and the ability to translate that insight into competitive solutions. 
Connecting production and products has profound impact. 
Data collection and analysis make it possible to streamline pro-duction and use. What used to be separated is now connected. Everything is optimised in systems instead of individual units. The sustainability effects include higher security and lower energy use. Consumers
Digitalisation is totally redrawing the consumption map. We are seeing new business models and new offerings. Consumers no longer buy products, they buy solutions to 
problems. The relationship between businesses and con-
sumers is changing. The identity of the owner, producer or user is not always immediately apparent – new networks are taking shape. One example is the smart home, with 
security solutions that might also incorporate connected 
services from other providers, such as health monitoring or single-use door codes for home deliveries. 
Cities 
By 2050, about 70 percent of the world’s population is expected to live in urban environments on a land area three times the size of what it was in 2000. In other words, many 
 cities of the future do not exist yet. Urbanisation and digitalisa-
tion entail great opportunities to make life more sustainable, as regards energy, infrastructure, mobility and much more. The city becomes a device of a sort, one that can control how we use energy, ensure accessibility and manage self-driving cars 
that communicate with each other and their surroundings.Citizens 
Digitalisation is having profound impact on people’s lives. 
The convenience we experience as e-shopping consumers or remote-working entrepreneurs is shaping our expectations in 
other areas, including society. 
This involves the entire relationship between citizens and 
society, from the democratic process to public services and 
all interactions with public agencies and authorities. Digital  solutions are also being used to vastly improve the efficiency of 
public administration. This is a huge transition for public institu-
tions – new demands are being placed on methods, organisa-tions, systems and, not least importantly, the approach to  citizens and business. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR MISSION 25Innovation Zone is Cybercom’s hub for devel-
opment and innovation, where employees, clients and other partners can all test ideas, 
develop prototypes and run pilot products  
in an ultra-creative environment. In order  to accomplish as much as possible, we bring organisations, people and skills together  
in cross-functional teams. 
The method can most closely be described as 
experience-based innovation. The key is trial and error, instead of overthinking. A large measure of 
freedom is included – you can proceed from your 
own interests and test ideas and new technolo-gies: learning is the primary goal. The only requirement is that the technology or solution 
must be relevant to Cybercom’s clients, in the 
near future or further down the road. 
Innovation Zone began as a pilot project in 
2016 so that Cybercom’s consultants could use the time between assignments for learning and 
development. Today, Innovation Zones are found 
in the Cybercom offices. For new employees, much of their introduction to Cybercom is pro-vided in Innovation Zone.Welcome to Innovation Zone 
How has Innovation Zone (IZ) evolved in 2017? 
This was the year IZ was really established, as a regular part of Cybercom. We focused on further developing IZ, where one of the goals was to form a group of IZ leaders. We now have ten leaders who have met four times so far. If you are inter -
ested in their projects and experiences, check out their blog on cybercom.com. 
What have you done? A lot! We held Hack-A-Bike, 
the world’s first hackathon on electric bikes, in collaboration with Cycleurope, for instance. The offices in Sundsvall, Kista and Malmö created “Innovation in a Box”, a kit that makes it easier for clients to get innovating on their own. 
What’s happening in 2018? We will be continuing 
our IZ initiatives. Our priorities include working much more closely with Cybercom’s Sustainabil-ity Ambassadors to generate more innovations with focus on sustainability. It’s going to be really exciting to see what we can achieve here. INNOVATION ZONE
•  9 offices in 3 countries
•  88 consultants and students 
• 19 client projects 
• 8 cross-site projects 
•  11 projects with 
new technology3 QUESTIONS FOR DANIEL KULLGARD, CYBERCOM INNOVATION LEADER
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 26 INNOVATION ZONECONTEST | FORTUM
IZ and Fortum are 
 hacking for sustainable 
energy
Fortum’s 48-hour hackathon AI Comes Home 
was based on exploring AI services for consumers’ homes. The Innovation Zone team started with 
the idea that most people want to live sustaina-
bly, but often don’t know what to do. The team used detailed information about the household’s electricity consumption to give personalised advice 
and recommended actions through an AI assistant. 
Cybercom’s solution was selected as one of two winners and Fortum is continuing to study AI assis-tance as a sustainable lifestyle tool
.
Climate action. The goal is to take immediate action 
to fight climate change and its consequences. Innova-tion Zone’s AI solution is helping to raise awareness of energy use and encouraging changes in behaviour. 
INNOVATION ZONE | VÄSTTRAFIK
Easier  commute  
on the way in  
Gothenburg
Commuting is already easy in the 
Gothenburg region, and it is about to get even better. People who live outside 
the city can park free at Västtrafik’s 
park-and-rides and take public transport the rest of the way. Västtrafik is collabo-rating with Innovation Zone, Cyber -
com’s machine learning specialists and 
doctoral students to predict availability 
at the park-and-rides. We use historical information about use of the parking spaces and add in factors like weather forecasts and holiday calendars. The 
goal is a service that helps commuters 
decide whether to take the car into the city or leave it behind.
Sustainable cities and communities. The 
goal is aimed at making cities and commu-nities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustaina-ble. Västtrafik is reducing congestion and providing more accessible and sustainable public transport in the Gothenburg region. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 INNOVATION ZONE 27Fortum is continuing to develop tools for greener energy in the home and sustainable living, 
based partly on Cybercom’s AI solution with AI assistance and voice interface. Google Home  
is being used in the tests.COLLABORATION | GÖTEBORGS TEKNISKA COLLEGE
Cybercom + Smart 
 Factories = true 
Cybercom and our Innovation Zone are involved in 
creating the smart factories of the future. In concrete terms, the Smart Factories project involves students 
building two physical factories in Gothenburg and 
 Skövde. They are “mini-factories”, but the technol-
ogy being loaded into them is anything but “mini”. For instance, the factories are fully automated. 
Over the long run, Smart Factories are meant to 
inspire more digitalised, automated and sustainable industry. The project is being run by Göteborgs Tekni-ska College and was made possible by Cybercom and other corporate partners. 
Smart Factories is being run through student proj-
ects, specifically intended to inspire young people to choose technical studies. In total, there will be about 21,000 hours of student jobs in fields including virtual 
commissioning, sustainable production and program-
ming of automated processes.
Cybercom is contributing to the Smart Factories 
project in several ways, including data collection in the Cloud, AR visualisation and the factory assembly guide, the Smart Factories mobile app and the Machinebook service. 
Sustainable industry, innovation and infrastructure.  
The goal is to build up a resilient infrastructure, promote 
inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster inno-vation. Smart Factories is working towards innovation that supports industrial adaptation to sustainability with more efficient use of resources.
INNOVATION ZONE | MEMOAR
AR as a weapon 
 against dementia 
Innovation Zone teamed up with the 
start-up company MemoAR to test their idea: using AR to make life easier for people with 
early dementia. We created a mobile app with 
features like face recognition, speech-to-text and key word analysis. The user can add con-
tacts and get help recognising them. Entire 
conversations can be recorded, after which keywords are used as reminders. The goal is to further develop the solution by imple-menting it in AR glasses.
Good health and well-being for people. The 
goal is to ensure that everyone can live a healthy life and to promote the well-being of people of all ages. It is not only about living long, it is about living well. Technology can help older people in society and solutions like MemoAR support people with particular challenges. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 28 INNOVATION ZONEPARTNERSHIP | SWEDISH MEDIA COUNCIL
Cybercom supports young  
media users 
Cybercom is a digital partner to the Swedish Media Council. The agency 
works to promote the empowering of minors as conscious media users and to protect them from harmful media influences. The Swedish Media Council 
monitors developments regarding media, children and youth, disseminates 
information, and provides guidance via films, podcasts, e-learning and quiz-zes. It is critically important that the website, its features and campaign domains are appealing, fast and run smoothly. The Council’s website,  
statensmediarad.se, was named one of the ten best websites in the public  sector, healthcare and organisation in the 2017 MKSE Digital Excellence Awards. 
CLIENT CASE |  HELSINKI REGION ENVIRONMENTAL  
SERVICES
IoT controls water  
and waste in Helsinki 
HRM (Helsinki Region Environmental Services) 
plays an important part for the Finnish capital – the agency supplies more than a million people with 
drinking water, treats wastewater and manages the 
majority of waste produced in the region. These and other services are being improved through several IoT projects. Towards ensuring success with service 
development, HRM and Cybercom drafted an over -
all vision and strategy for IoT. The aim was to coordi-
nate and manage all of the agency’s IoT projects to ensure a better total result. The strategy also pro-motes innovation and collaboration – a significant 
effect for the largest organisation and pioneer in 
water and waste management in Finland.
Clean water and sanitation. The aim is to ensure 
 access to sustainable water and sanitation manage-
ment for everyone. By applying IoT, HRM and other organisations can ensure sustainable water supply and make water use significantly more efficient.Quality education. The goal is aimed at ensuring inclusive, equal and high-quality education and to promote life-long learning for everyone. The Swedish Media Council contributes to both education and democratisation by increasing awareness of media among children and youth. Decent work and economic growth. The goal is aimed at inclusive and sustainable economic growth and full and productive employment with decent wor -
king conditions for everyone. Solutions like Skanska’s helmet make the work environment safer and more secure for construction workers. CLIENT CASE | SKANSKA
Connected helmet 
 protects construction 
workers 
Skanska Poland is testing smart helmets to 
increase safety at its building sites. The helmet was developed in collaboration with Cybercom 
and Intel. And it is really smart – the helmet 
detects and gives warnings about all kinds of anomalies and hazards, such as vibrations, impact, falls or changes in temperature. Without a doubt, 
it is welcome news in an industry where the acci-
dent rate is still far too high. Fifty smart helmets are being tested at a building site in Warsaw. The initiative is the first of its kind in Europe. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 INNOVATION ZONE 29Wouldn’t it be fantastic if surgeons could practice operations to develop their 
skills and minimise the risk of errors? Computer simulation does just that by 
creating virtual training scenarios. It gives future surgeons and experienced 
surgeons alike the opportunity to practice arthroscopic surgery and many other procedures in a risk-free setting before they operate on real patients. CLIENT CASE | VIRTAMED
Safer operations with connected 
 simulators and a shared knowledge base
Good health and well-being for people. The goal is to ensure that everyone can lead healthy lives.  
It also  involves promoting the well-being of people of all ages. Cloud services and tools like VirtaMed’s  
simulators  contribute to better healtcare and thus human health and survival. 
Peace, justice and strong institutions. The goal is aimed at promoting peaceful and inclusive societies and justice for all. It also involves building efficient, accountable and inclusive institu-tions at all levels. Cloud services like those the Municipality of Flen is using can make public institutions more transparent and promote informed decisions. The Swiss company VirtaMed develops 
and produces the most realistic surgical sim-ulators in the market. Cybercom Poland is 
helping the company take the simulators 
to the next level by connecting them to the cloud. The aim is to create a common global network and improve surgical training in a 
way that is only possible by using connec-
tion in the cloud. The project began in late 2017 and by February this year, Cybercom had developed a prototype to show the functions of the cloud-based simulator at 
a global conference. Due to high quality 
and security standards, the system requires extremely efficient and secure connection, which Cybercom can deliver.The connected surgical simulators will make a critical difference to mentors and trainees. Training sessions are going from 
being one-time events stored in individual 
devices to being globally accessible lessons and tools for all users. Sharing all resources and making them available to everyone 
improves surgical training and skills and, 
ultimately, the quality of healthcare and patient health. That aligns well with Virta-Med’s and Cybercom’s shared ambitions to generate positive values and contribute 
to sustainable development.CLIENT CASE | FLEN MUNICIPALITY
An inclusive  
municipality
Flen Municipality is upgrading for 
efficiency and better service to citi-zens by moving its IT systems to the 
cloud and building new e-services. 
The entire infrastructure will be migrated. One important enabler for this is the “catalog service” that 
controls management of identities 
and access to services and features.
The catalog service will still be con-
trolled from the municipality’s own system. This is important for various 
reasons. One is that the system is 
linked with other institutions, such as Swedish healthcare system catalogs, the school system and other opera-
tional systems in the municipality. 
Cybercom is helping the municipality develop the catalog service and is 
contributing with identification 
 systems, integration with other 
 operational systems and system 
 management.
The new cloud-based infrastruc-
ture provides an open environment where it will be much easier to develop new web services. Flen also expects to cut costs considerably. 
The new online services create 
a closer relationship between the municipality and citizens, which is inevitably going to recast the local authority’s approach and working 
methods. Digitalisation puts focus on 
citizens and makes it easier for them to be part of society and makes it easy, secure and accessible to use 
municipal services around the clock. 
At the same time, the municipality saves resources, energy and costs.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 30 INNOVATION ZONECLIENT CASE | HUSQVARNA
The importance of green spaces 
Shifting your perspective can really make a big difference. 
 Husqvarna Commercial Lawn and Garden switched its focus 
from products to customer needs, digitalisation and sustainability. 
Together with Cybercom and our Digital Sustainability process, 
Husqvarna developed a strategic plan, updated business model and, above all, a new future position: to provide green spaces. 
The change process is helping Husqvarna become the partner 
and service-driven company they want to be. The goal is to offer 
sustainable, customised solutions for green spaces and urban 
 environments.
Sustainable cities and communities. The goal is aimed at making cities and 
communities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. More than half the world’s population lives in urban areas and more of us are becoming city-dwellers all the time. That makes safe and peaceful green spaces even more important. They are good for the well-being of people and the environment alike.Peace, justice and strong institutions. The goal is aimed at promoting peaceful and inclusive societies and justice for all. It also involves building efficient, accountable and inclusive insti-tutions at all levels. Protection of personal data and privacy are prerequisites for people to be willing to act and communicate in digital environments. CLIENT CASE | POSTNORD
PostNord hits back at 
 cyberfraudsters
Cybercom is supporting PostNord’s information 
security work. We are working proactively to secure the company’s information assets and taking action 
as needed to investigate and manage incidents. The 
wave of fake emails is a recent example. The emails look like they are from PostNord, but are actually sent by fraudsters. People who click through the emails have been hit with a virus that locks their entire 
 computer. This involves ransomware that demands a 
ransom in bitcoin from the user to regain control over their computer. Unfortunately, PostNord and other companies whose brands have been misused this way cannot do anything about it right then and there. 
What PostNord and Cybercom have been able to do 
is track and investigate these crimes, with the ultimate aim of bringing the fraudsters to justice. We have also collaborated with the media to expose cybercriminals 
publicly and make it harder for them to  continue their 
activities.
“Cybercom presented a unique approach 
in which the UN global sustainability goals 
drive innovation and new sales. We truly 
appreciate the experience and resources 
that Cybercom brought to our collaboration.”
KALLE LIND,  
DIRECTOR COMMERCIAL LAWN AND GARDEN,  
HUSQVARNA GROUP 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 INNOVATION ZONE 313.5 MB LOADEDDESKTOP USERSECURITY PROTOCOLCONNECTED DEVICE
3.5 MB LOADED
Future proofing beyond technology 
Three hundred users have downloaded  
the GDPR Check developed by Cybercom 
to provide free and straightforward  
support. Read more about it at  
cybercom.com/gdpr-kollen. Expertise and services in IT security 
Cybercom is working at all levels to ensure secure  
and sustainable digitalisation. Companies and public 
institutions are well aware that cyber threats are increasing, but few know how to respond to these rapid 
changes. Cybercom is helping raise awareness of these 
issues and to assess and prioritise actions considered reasonable from the balanced risk perspective. We help companies, public institutions and organisations with  
all aspects of information security, from drafting complete 
management models to nonconformance reporting. Our service areas include IT/information security, identity and access management, and compliance with regulations, 
including GDPR, which takes effect in May 2018.  
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 32 INNOVATION ZONE123,456 TB ANALYSED
DATA
Digital revolution 
Everything is being digitalised and con-nected. This is no less than a revolution. 
All sectors and all relationships are 
affected, from the individual to the global level. Digitalisation is driving sustainable 
development in several ways, including 
smarter technology that is overcoming many challenges. Energy, infrastructure and resource management are but a few examples. And connected people have the 
whole world of information in their hands 
– this transparency and accessibility equa-lises old information asymmetries and pro-motes democratisation. 
But everything is open to debate. What 
happens to democracy when people live in their own filter bubbles and are always at risk of being the targets of disinformation? How do we measure results and value 
when people meet AI and robotisation? 
How do we ensure the rights of individuals to privacy while managing security risks and criminality? Digitalisation has infinite 
potential, but also means that we are con-
stantly being confronted with new ques-tions and consequences. That requires good judgement and accountability. 
Potential and risks 
As more and more is being controlled by computers in all parts of society, we are being confronted with new and higher 
risks. Unintentionally, we are building in 
vulnerability that can be difficult to com-prehend and control. While technology is inherently neutral, it unlocks new poten-
tial and thus also opens the door to risks 
and misuse.
The smart home with digital assistance 
and voice control is a down-to-earth example. It is so convenient to tell the 
 coffee pot to brew a cup in the morning, 
for instance. But the very existence of this function opens a new channel that has to be secured and can, in the worst case, be misused. Inadequate security can have 
serious consequences at all levels of soci-
ety, from disruption or breakdown of vital public operations to threats to personal privacy and identity. Physical assets and 
belongings may also be affected. In order 
to make optimal use of technology, we must have secure and resilient systems and we must decide what kind of society we want to create and live in. 
Information security and cyber­
security are sustainability issues. At Cybercom, we see technology as a 
powerful tool for building strong com-
munities. We want to leverage our collec-tive capabilities to be involved in creating the conditions necessary for sustainable development. That applies to Cybercom’s 
entire offering and especially our expertise 
in the field of information security and cyber security. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 INNOVATION ZONE 33MAKING  
PROGRESSMAKING  
PROGRESSMAKING  
PROGRESSMAKING  
PROGRESS
Cybercom works towards clear objectives in areas 
including sustainable business, diversity, profitability 
and business ethics. This is how we generate results.Supplemental sustainability information
Stakeholders and dialogue 
Material sustainability aspectsCybercom’s key stakeholders are employees, clients, owners and the 
union organisations that represent the company’s employees. The table illustrates the topics that are usually the subject of Cybercom’s dialogues with each group of stakeholders, communication and dialogue methods used and how the dialogue affects Cybercom’s operations. 
The table illustrates the sustainability aspects that Cybercom has assessed as material in terms of management and reporting. The assessment was made with consideration to the opinions of key stakeholders concerning Cybercom’s operations and sustainability work.
We began a stakeholder dialogue at the end of the year aimed at updat-ing Cybercom’s materiality assessment. The dialogue was conducted in two main steps: a survey of all Cybercom employees and interviews with a number of key clients. The survey and interviews were augmented with an analysis of sustainability communications from competing companies and a study of Cybercom’s capacity to manage sustainability issues. The survey showed that employees consider equal treatment and equal opportunity, sustainable business and ethical and legal conduct the most important sustainability topics for Cybercom. The entire materiality assessment will be provided in the 2018 Sustainability Report.Stakeholder group Topics Dialogue Outcome 
Clients Offer, quality, delivery, security management, 
privacy, business ethics, labour conditions, cli-
mate performance, procurement proceduresClient survey, interviews Sales training, business systems in the Swedish operations for 
quality, environment and information security that will be 
integrated throughout the Group. The system is based on the established standards ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environ-
ment) and to some extent ISO 27001 (information security)
Employees Skills development, working environment, 
corporate culture, diversity and gender 
 equalityEmployee survey, interviews Training, management conferences, employee events/ 
meetings about vision and values
Investors/owners Profitability, corporate responsibility, business ethicsAnnual general meeting, board work, interviews, investor meetingsCode of Conduct and Business Ethics, sustainability report, corporate governance report 
Suppliers Suppliers’ environmental work Suppliers’ Code of Conduct,  procurement, negotiationsCompliance with code, sustainability focus
Identified sustainability aspect Corresponding GRI G4 aspect 
Business ethics –
Anti-corruption and anti-competitive behaviour Anti-corruption 
Dedicated employees and employee development Employment, occupational health and safety and training
Financial stability Economic performance
Sustainable products and services Products and services and product and service labelling
Sustainability in the Cybercom culture –
Information security –
Privacy issues related to IT Customer privacy
Diversity and gender equality Diversity and equal opportunity and non-discrimination
Smart use of resources Energy and emissionsIn-depth information about Cybercom’s operations and performance is presented 
here. The section contains disclosures in the areas of stakeholder dialogue, 
organisation and governance, employees, clients, environment, risks and economic 
performance. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 36 STAKEHOLDERS AND DIALOGUEPolicy and management
The company’s Code of Conduct constitutes Cybercom’s main sustaina-
bility policy. 
Cybercom has also had a Suppliers’ Code of Conduct since 2012. The 
Suppliers’ Code of Conduct covers the same areas as Cybercom’s internal Code of Conduct, except for financial reporting and other external com-munications. Cybercom’s internal Code of Conduct and the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct are available on cybercom.com.
Code of Conduct 
The Code of Conduct is based on the UN Global Compact and its princi-ples on human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. It was written in 2004 and most recently updated in 2016.
The Code of Conduct applies to all employees. The Code sets standards 
for employee professionalism and integrity to ensure that everyone who represents Cybercom conducts themselves ethically in relation to the company’s stakeholders. 
The Code of Conduct covers the following areas: 
1 Comply with laws and regulations 
All Cybercom employees are responsible for acting in compliance with 
laws and regulations applicable to Cybercom’s operations and deliveries. In the event of an individual issue demanding it, they will seek legal advice. Cybercom applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Cybercom presents and reports corporate information in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 
2 Human rights 
Cybercom respects human rights as laid down in UN conventions. Every-body in the organisation must show respect for the integrity and dignity of all people. Cybercom will not in any way contribute to the violation of human rights. 
3 Labour law and working conditions 
Cybercom supports freedom of association and the right to collective  bargaining. Cybercom does not permit child labour. Cybercom applies 
the principle that a child is a person younger than 15 years of age unless national legislation states an older age, in which case the older age applies. Cybercom applies the definition of child labour as laid down by the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Cybercom does not tolerate any forms of discrimination. All employees have equal rights and must never be subjected to unjust treatment due to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion, beliefs, political affiliation or disability. All employ-ees must show respect for each other and for Cybercom’s business part-ners and will take responsibility for combating discrimination. Cybercom works unabatedly to combat discrimination. This permeates the compa-ny’s policies and processes during, for example, recruitment, setting of wage rates, and skills enhancement. Cybercom offers salaries that comply with the minimum wage, as laid down in national legislation, with cor -
rectly prepared employment contracts. Cybercom also ensures that work-ing hours are compliant with local legislation. Cybercom seeks to give all employees time for rest. Cybercom shall not in any way utilise forced labour and will always ensure that the working relationship between employee and organisation is at the employee’s own free will. 
4 Health and safety 
Cybercom shall provide a healthy and safe workplace in compliance with internationally acknowledged standards. Cybercom works proactively to prevent accidents and work-related illnesses. All employees are offered health and safety training when and if required. 5 Environment 
Our aim is to minimise the company’s negative environmental impact. Cybercom respects the precautionary principle and seeks to actively con-tribute to reducing negative environmental impact through responsible measures and technological advancement. Cybercom always acts in com-pliance with laws and internationally recognised directives. 
6 Corruption and other prohibited business practices 
Cybercom complies with the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute’s Code of Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits in Business, and works actively to combat corruption and unethical practices. Employees must not give or receive gifts, benefits or bribes that constitute a breach of this code.Cybercom is politically independent and does not sponsor political organi-sations. Cybercom is opposed to any form of money laundering and has taken the relevant measures to prevent financial transactions that are of criminal intent. 
7 Promote accurate disclosure in financial reports and  
other public communications Cybercom shall be transparent and provide relevant information when so required. This means that the company shall always provide fair and  correct information. Cybercom’s goal is for all communication to contrib-ute to a stronger brand. 
8 Properly use company assets and confidential information 
All business decisions shall be made with the good of the company in mind. All consultants will be professional in their relationship with  Cybercom and will not pursue competitive activities. 
Client trust is of vital importance to Cybercom. All employees will treat  client information in complete confidentiality. Information about Cyber -
com’s clients may only be used in the implementation of the project in 
question. This confidentiality remains in force even after the project has been completed. Cybercom has clear guidelines for the handling of con-fidential information. 
9 Protect our clients’ and partners’ confidential and  
patented information Cybercom requires all employees to sign a confidentiality agreement in accordance with Cybercom’s security policy. There are clear rules for the handling of, and access to, material belonging to Cybercom. 
10 Take a professional pride in the consultancy role 
Freedom with accountability and focus on the individual are important contributory factors in Cybercom being able to attract highly skilled staff. Cybercom seeks to offer all employees the opportunity for personal and professional development. A workplace that is open, creative and flexible sets the course for being able to offer clients professional and attractive products and services. To sum up, Cybercom shall always conduct itself ethically in its dealings with all its stakeholders. Cybercom shall be charac-terised by professionalism and integrity 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLICY AND MANAGEMENT 372017 2016 2015
Total number of employees EmployeesPercentage
Women, % EmployeesPercentage
Women, % EmployeesPercentage
Women, %
Number of permanent employees 1,251  20 1,185 17 1,200 17
– Of which full-time 1,231  20 1,154 17 1,200 17
– Of which part-time 20  40 31 29 0 0
Number of temporary employees 11 73 18 33 18 28
Total number of employees 1,262 19 1,203 18 1,218 17
2017 2016 2015
Employee turnover Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total
New recruitment during the year 425     280 237
Under 30 44 141 185 34 119 153 12 89 101
30–50 45 177 222 24 95 119 24 109 133
Over 50 7 11 18 1  7  8 0 3 3
Percentage of new employees 35% 23% 19%
People who left during the year 372 294 332
Under 30 25 85 110 12 50 62 7 58 65
30–50 28 204 232 27 166 193 42 186 228
Over 50 8  22  30 8 31 39 9 30 39
Percentage who ended employment 30% 24% 27%Key figures and indicators pertaining to the number of employees refer to 31 December of each year.Employees
425 19% 33%
NEW EMPLOYEES IN 2017 WOMEN WOMEN IN BOARD OF DIRECTORS2017 2016 2015
Composition of the company NumberPercentage
Women, % NumberPercentage
Women, % NumberPercentage
Women, %
Board of directors 9  33 9 33 9 33
Under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0
30–50 6 17 7 29 7 43
Over 50 3  67 2 50 2 0
Managers 121 26 115 26 97 20
Under 30 3 33 3 33 1 0
30–50 91 19 89 22 75 17
Over 50 27  52 23 39 21 29
Other employees 1,141 19 1,088 17 1,121 17
Under 30 338 22 309 18 276 18
30–50 664 19 642 16 696 15
Over 50 139  21 137 20 149 212017 2016 2015
Employees by country EmployeesPercentage
Women, % EmployeesPercentage
Women, % EmployeesPercentage
Women, %
Sweden 775  22 748 20 765 18
Finland 171 12 164 12 193 10
Poland 277 21 253 18 209 16
India 21  14 23 13 28 25
Singapore  – – 2 50 13 8
Denmark 18 39 13 8 10 10
Total number of employees 1,262 19 1,203 18 1,218 17
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 38 EMPLOYEES: DISCLOUSURE AND KEY DATAPriorities 
Attracting, developing and retaining creative and skilled colleagues and creating opportunities for employees to achieve their full potential are among Cybercom’s most important tasks. 
Skills provision is the industry’s – and thus Cybercom’s – greatest chal-
lenge and its greatest opportunity. As a knowledge company in IT, we are dependent upon having the right skills in a changing and largely unpre-dictable environment. It is difficult to precisely predict what technical skills are going to be needed. For this reason, the willingness and capacity to manage change and learn new things is an important skill in and of itself. 
This reality requires Cybercom to maintain and reinforce its flexibility 
as an organisation as well. We must keep creating opportunities for our employees to develop as regards new methods and technologies, for instance. This is accomplished in part through various forms of internal mobility, between skills areas or markets, for instance. Accelerating our flexibility and development will be a high priority in 2018 and forward.
Skills development 
Cybercom’s approach is based on a novel perspective on professional development, where the definition of a successful career path is up to the individual. We prefer to compare a career to a climbing wall, rather than a ladder. To develop and attain their goals, the employee must often be flexible and grasp the opportunities that arise. Sometimes you need to make a lateral move before continuing in your chosen direction.
Our work is based on a joint platform for learning and skills develop-
ment that we call Boosting Your Development. The platform contains four main areas: 
Opportunities: We divide professional and personal development into 
five levels, from Junior Consultant to Principal Consultant. Each level entails expectations in the categories of knowledge, colleagues and busi-ness. In addition to the professional levels, there are five main develop-ment areas categorised by function: technology development, business development, sales, leadership and project management. 
Roles and areas of responsibility: This where the aspects that are 
Cybercom’s responsibility, the manager’s responsibility and the individual’s responsibility for the employee’s skills development are defined. 
Model for learning and development: We work according to the 
70/20/10 model, where 70 percent of learning comes from challenging tasks, 20 percent from enriching collaborations and relationships and 10 percent from formal training. For Cybercom’s consultants, this means that at least 90 percent of development occurs in their assignments and the course of the working day. 
Professional development process: We apply the same agile 
approach here as in the rest of the business. Regular meetings between managers and employees are the backbone of our professional develop-ment model. These one-on-one meetings must be held at least once per quarter. The other component of the development model is the Profes-sional Development Inventory, which focuses on the employee’s short- and long-term goals in relation to Cybercom’s needs and strategy. The dialogues are held as needed and result in a development plan that is fol-lowed up in connection with the regular meetings. 
Leadership 
Strong and professional leadership is crucial to sharpening our competi-tive edge. In recent years, we have focused on changing the leadership structure of the company. The drivers were Cybercom’s strategy to rein-force client intimacy and employee preferences for closer leadership. The new structure is based on leaders of smaller teams in the same skills area, as opposed to traditional consulting managers and larger teams. The Competence Team Leads focus on motivating, coaching and developing employees individually and the team as a whole. A Team Lead devotes 20 percent of their time to leadership and works as a consultant the rest of the time. 
One positive consequence of the new structure is that more employees 
are developing into leaders while retaining their skills areas. The change is popular: in the latest employee survey, 75 percent of employees rate the management at 4 or 5 out of 5.
Employee’s rights and conditions
Cybercom respects human rights. Respect for individuals and their priv-acy and dignity are fundamental to all of our relationships, both within Cybercom and with clients, partners and other external stakeholders.  Naturally, Cybercom has particular responsibility for its own employees. 
All of Cybercom’s sustainability-related policies and positions are specified in the company’s Code of Conduct: see page 37.
Employees of Cybercom are offered competitive compensation and 
generous, relevant benefits. We have adjusted the benefits package according to feedback from our employees.
Cybercom also cares about employee social security. The precise 
arrangements vary among markets, but all offer advantageous insurance policies. Employees in Finland and Sweden are covered by collective agreements that include certain benefits as regards pensions and parental leave supplement, for example.
Diversity and gender equality 
A diverse range of perspectives strengthens our joint creative and prob-lem-solving capacity and makes us a better partner to our clients. When we recruit and develop employees, the focus is on skills. Cybercom’s doors are open and we look outside the borders of Sweden to find the right skills for the company. Training hours/employee 2017 2016 2015
Women 18 13 34
Men 19 14 26
All employees 19 14 27
Collective bargaining 
 agreements 2017 2016 2015
Percentage of employees  covered by collective bargaining 
agreements 76 77 77Absenteeism 2017 2016 2015
Absenteeism rate by country, %
Sweden 2.9 3.4 2.6
Finland 2.4 3.0 2.4
Poland 2.5 2.0 1.5
India – 0 0.1
Singapore – 0.4 0
Denmark 3.2 1.9 1.6
Average Cybercom 2.8 3.0 2.2
Excluding new employeesDevelopment reviews 2017 2016 2015
Percentage of employees given  
development reviews
Women 94 89 89
Men 90 84 81
All employees 91 85 83
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 EMPLOYEES: DISCLOUSURE AND KEY DATA 39We work with East Sweden’s Chamber of Com-
merce and the Swedish Public Employment Ser -
vice to offer work experience to newcomers to Sweden and thus an opportunity to gain a foot-hold in the labour market. The hope is to offer participants jobs or put them together with partners or recruitment firms that can match them to jobs in their networks. 
More equal gender distribution is one of the 
company’s general objectives: the workforce is to be 30 percent women by the end of 2020. The goal is based on the 70/30 ratio of new graduates in technical education in the coun-tries where Cybercom operates. We have hit the target at the board and management level – the board consists of three women and six men, while there are 32 women and 89 men in senior management. We have a little way to go overall – at the end of the year, the gender distribution ratio between men and women at Cybercom was 81/19.Health and safety Cybercom is acting to achieve a good work environment and employee health and well- being by means including matching the right person to the right assignment, providing opportunities for variation and development on the job and allocating tasks to minimise stress. We strive to accommodate preferences for flexible working hours. 
We work in an office setting on our own or 
client premises. Because we spend so much time in front of computers, it is important for employees to vary their work postures. Cyber -
com’s premises offer various types of worksta-tions and we encourage people to get moving – by playing table tennis at the office, for instance. Cybercom’s greatest health and safety risks are repetitive strain injuries and stress- related disor -
ders. 
The new leadership structure with Compe-
tence Team Leads has been assessed as also  fostering employee well-being. More frequent interaction with a manager in the same skills 
area generates understanding and opportuni-ties to identify challenges at an early stage. 
The absenteeism rate at Cybercom was 2.8 
percent during the year. There were no reported workplace accidents. 
Management of HR issues 
Management of employee-related matters at Cybercom is based on several policies and pro-cedures. The most important of these include our Code of Conduct, the health and safety policy and procedures, the diversity policy, the gender equality plan and a procedure for dealing with incidents of discrimination.
The purpose and objectives of HR work are 
the same in all material respects throughout Cybercom, although approaches may differ. We are using group-wide systems support and other means to plan for increased collaboration and efficiency within the Group. “We need to keep creating opportunities for our employees to 
develop as regards new methods and technologies, for instance. 
This is accomplished in part through various forms of internal 
mobility, such as moving between skills areas or markets. 
Accelerating our flexibility and development will be a high 
priority in 2018 and forward.”
Linda Westlund, Head of HR
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 40 EMPLOYEES: DISCLOUSURE AND KEY DATAClients
Legal and appropriate conduct 
High ethics must characterise every aspect of our business and operations. Our Code of Con-duct governs our actions in all countries where we operate and business ethics are a standing item on the leadership team’s agenda.
As of 2014, all employees complete an 
online course in anti-corruption. The training is based on our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics and presents various possible dilemmas on which employees must take a position. There were no cases of corruption or discrimi-nation at Cybercom in 2017. 
Quality
For Cybercom, quality is a matter of client per -
ception. Accordingly, our task is to consistently meet the client’s needs and meet or exceed expectations. We succeed at this by working intimately with clients in order to understand their needs and challenges. We monitor tech-nological advancements and how technology can be applied in the light of our clients’ needs. Finally, we constantly develop our skills so that we can deliver in pace with new needs and new technology. Cybercom’s quality management system is certified under ISO 9001 and our pol-icy and quality targets help us steer our efforts in the right direction. In order to assure quality, the majority of our work is process-oriented. The enterprise management system contains necessary documentation in the form of pro-cess and role descriptions, as well as instruc-tions and templates. Training is a key compo-nent of quality management. 
We set targets and monitor a number of 
quality parameters – customer satisfaction first and foremost among them. The overall objec-tive is to continuously increase the CSI (Cus-tomer Satisfaction Index) and to always outper -
form the industry average. There is a separate policy, strategy and process run by sales manag-ers to accomplish these ends. Read more about Cybercom’s targets on page 12
. 
Information securityFor Cybercom, information security means our ability to ensure the necessary confidentiality, integrity and availability of our internal systems and information and the systems and informa-tion of our clients. Our clients’ systems and those of Cybercom must be managed in a safe manner and the effect of any security incidents must not entail risk of seriously damaging the client’s operations or our own. 
Cybercom works systematically with infor -
mation security based on our information secu-rity policy. Internal security measures are inte-grated in Cybercom’s business system. Defining the right level of security for client assignments involves setting the acceptable exposure to risk, performing a risk assessment and describing the organisational, process-related and techni-cal security measures that must be imple-mented. The security measures taken are always the most rigorous of the available alter -
natives.
 
Client privacyCybercom works actively to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations on protec-tion of privacy, including the new EU General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR. This work is conducted both internally and on assignment for clients. Cybercom did not experience any losses of client data in 2017.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CLIENTS 41Environment
Carbon emissions from air travel in relation to sales 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Carbon emissions from air travel (metric tons) 277 182 343 640 599 451
Carbon emissions1) in relation to sales (metric tons CO² /SEKm) 0.19 0.13 0.27 0.51 0.50 0.34
91,163 277
SKYPE MEETINGS METRIC TONS OF CARBON 
EMISSIONS FROM AIR TRAVEL–13.5%
CHANGE IN ELECTRICITY 
CONSUMPTION 2016–2017
1)  Data excludes Cybercom’s joint venture in India. We monitor greenhouse gas emissions from air travel. Greenhouse gas emissions are reported by the travel agents 
Cybercom uses in each country. For our operations in Singapore, greenhouse gas emissions are calculated based on distance travelled.Electricity consumption in Cybercom’s 
offices and data centres 2017 2016 2015
Total electricity consumption (MWh) 2,037 2,356 2,230
Electricity consumption in relation to sales (MWh/SEKm) 1.4 1.7 1.8
Virtual communications 2017 2016 2015
Number of Skype meetings 91,163 90,086 57,792The disclosures pertain to Cybercom’s offices and own data centres. Cybercom buys mostly renewable electri-
city in all countries in which we operate. To convert energy from MWh to GJ, use the conversion factor of 3.6. Policy and management 
Environmental aspects are included in Cyber -
com’s Code of Conduct. Our commitment con-sists of minimising Cybercom’s negative envi-ronmental impact, applying the precautionary principle and actively contributing to reducing negative environmental impact through tech-nological progress. 
As a complement to the Code of Conduct, 
Cybercom has an environmental policy oriented towards sustainable business. 
Cybercom’s environmental management sys-
tem has been certified under ISO 14001 since 2017 throughout the Swedish organisation (some Cybercom offices were environmentally certified by 2008). We use Cybercom’s environ-mental policy, environmental targets and action plans to manage and track our environmental efforts. Each office adjusts the general environ-mental targets and action plans to their specific circumstances. 
We provide training and regular communica-
tions about Cybercom’s environmental work. All employees are required to complete web-based environmental training and there are additional resources available. Employees are also encouraged to review their own climate impact using the Climate Account service pro-vided by IVL Swedish Environmental Research Institute. In 2017, Cybercom signed the decla-ration drawn up by the Fossil-Free Sweden Ini-tiative.
Internally, Cybercom has made good prog-
ress in the environmental area. Relatively speak-ing, we devote more energy to helping our  clients implement solutions to reduce negative 
environmental impact and increase positive impact. 
Activities 
We are a consultancy, and for us the main thrust is to reduce the share of environmental impact caused by travel, both business travel and in our daily commute. Accordingly, we changed our way of working some time ago, and make extensive use of various IT solutions to commu-nicate internally and with our clients. This has not only reduced travel, it has helped streamline collaboration internally and with clients. 
Employees and clients are informed about 
how Cybercom’s offices can be reached by pub-lic transport. We make it easier for employees to leave their car at home. For example, all offices have showers and dressing rooms so that people can run or cycle to work. Targets and outcomes Cybercom has identified overall targets for its key environmental aspects: purchasing, travel, waste management and environmental engagement through client assignments. 
We have made progress in the environmental 
area over time, particularly as regards travel. Business travel has been reduced and we travel more often by train, as opposed to flying. As for the daily commute, there has been a marked decrease in trips by car in favour of other alter -
natives. 
We did record one negative change in 2017, 
however: carbon emissions from air travel increased to 277 metric tons from 181 tons in 2016. The increase was due to international assignments. The emissions are still lower than when we began to measure and, overall, we believe Cybercom’s environmental performance is at an acceptable level.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 42 ENVIRONMENT : DISCLOSURES AND KEY DATASignificant risks and uncertainties
Cybercom is exposed to a number of risks that could affect the Group’s 
earnings and financial position. Cybercom regularly performs risk assessments 
that include identification of the risks that affect the Group and takes action to 
manage these risks. 
Market and operational risks Description Action
Skills provision Cybercom’s business is dependent upon its capacity to attract 
and recruit skilled employees and upon its employees main-taining their skills, continuing to develop and staying moti-
vated. Shortages of labour occur from time to time and the 
company may have difficulty recruiting employees. High employee turnover or loss of key people could therefore 
have negative impact on the company.Cybercom works continuously with environmental and working con-
ditions, leadership and skills development to ensure that the company is an attractive employer. Innovation Zones are found at the company’s 
offices to provide for skills transfer and to explore new technology. 
Cybercom works with brand-building activities and recruitment through, for example, participating in conferences, seminars and 
courses. The company invites university students to write degree papers 
within Cybercom’s operations. Skills provision to the Nordic markets is augmented with capacity from the centres of excellence in Cybercom’s Polish and Indian operations. The company recruits globally.
Economic conditions The Nordic market for IT and consultant services is affected 
by the general economy. Deterioration of the general busi-
ness climate may therefore affect demand for the company’s services.Cybercom’s core business is in communications services and digitalisation, 
which have effect in both economic upturns and downturns through effi-
ciency improvements or competitive advantages. The company has devel-oped areas of expertise where market demand is expected to remain strong 
for decades. In addition, the company further develops skills in new areas 
on an ongoing basis and monitors national and global market trends. 
Client concentration Cybercom’s ten largest clients account for 43 percent of the company’s sales and the largest client accounts for 17 per -
cent. Cybercom seeks to build long-term relationships with its clients, several of which have been clients for many years.Cybercom often has many different, mutually independent projects in progress for its larger clients. The company strives to maintain a good 
balance among clients from different industries and geographies to 
 mitigate risk exposure. Cybercom’s target is for the ten largest clients 
to account for 50 percent of sales while no individual client accounts for more than 15 percent of the company’s revenues.
Capacity utilisation risk Cybercom’s revenues are highly dependent upon the number of consultant hours sold. Reduced demand for consultant 
hours affects capacity utilisation and may be caused by any 
number of factors, including economic downturns and/or shortages of appropriate consultant skills. Moreover, there 
is risk that clients may in some cases discontinue projects 
at short notice, which in turn may prevent Cybercom from immediately occupying the consultants involved in other assignments.Cybercom is developing its business and deepening expertise in areas where demand is growing and is expected to continue growing for 
many years ahead. The company’s services cover the entire project life 
cycle and consultants are equipped to successfully take on various roles. Employees are continuously further developed. The office-based Inno-
vation Zones are helping ensure that the company has knowledge and 
expertise in the latest technologies. The company also collaborates with a large number of sub-consultants to ensure flexible capacity in response to economic fluctuations and client-specific variations.
Price level and client 
 commitmentsThe level of prices charged to clients are a key component of the company’s earnings. When prices are negotiated with the 
client on an ongoing basis, earnings are affected immediately if market prices fall. For that portion of sales generated by cli-
ents with which the company has made general agreements, 
Cybercom is not affected by changes in the price level unless the general agreement is renegotiated. Fixed price assign-ments and other commitments to clients, where Cybercom 
promises to provide a solution or service at a price agreed in 
advance, constitute another type of price risk. In these situa-tions, the company bears the risk that the cost of delivering 
the assignment might have been incorrectly estimated.Cybercom’s strategy calls for the company to sell proactively and offer more advisory services in order to engage in dialogue with multiple 
stakeholders on the client side (operations, purchasing and IT) and move higher up the value chain. The company continuously further develops 
its procedures for assessing and controlling risks in client assignments.
Ethical risks Examples of ethical risks include employee failure to comply with national regulations, Cybercom’s Code of Conduct or 
ethical guidelines, or employee involvement in corruption, bribery or other irregularities. Such actions may damage the brand or lead to legal sanctions and fines.All Cybercom employees are required to sign the company’s Code of 
Conduct and Business Ethics immediately upon employment. This is also 
mandatory for the company’s sub-consultants. Preventive actions are taken at all levels of the company by means of communication, training and dilemma exercises.
Health and safety risks Cybercom’s greatest health and safety risks are repetitive strain injuries and stress-related disorders.The company’s premises are designed to encourage physical movement and variation in working posture. Aimed at minimising stress, Cybercom strives to maintain an open, communicative, reassuring and transparent culture. The company’s employees are provided occupational health ser -
vices according to their individual needs, as well as tools and equipment to prevent repetitive strain injuries, for example.
Human rights Cybercom operates in certain countries where there is greater risk connected to discrimination based on gender, social or religious identity, age or sexual orientation.Cybercom’s management works continuously to ensure that all opera-tions comply with the company’s Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. Everyone must show respect for the privacy and dignity of the individual.
Bank and client agreements There are clauses in the company’s loan agreements as well as 
certain client agreements that give the other party the option 
to terminate the agreement if major changes to the owner -
ship structure occur. If an agreement is terminated, it may have negative impact on the company.Cybercom’s financial structure is good and the company strives to main-
tain a stable financial base that provides favourable conditions for dia-
logue with banks. The company has many different client agreements, assignments and numerous large clients.
Financial risks Cybercom is exposed to several financial risks, such as liquid-ity risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and credit risks.These risks are described in Cybercom’s annual report for 2017.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 RISKS 43Executive Leadership Team
Niklas Flyborg
President and CEO Cybercom Group
Head of Cybercom Sweden
Born 1962
Degree in Economics and Business 
Administration, Stockholm School  of Economics
With Cybercom since: 2012Previous: Mandator, Cell Network, 
Observer/Cision, Capgemini.Kristina Cato
Head of Sustainability and 
 Communications Cybercom Group
Born 1968
M.A. Uppsala University
With Cybercom since: 1999
Previous: Linköping University HospitalDennis Lundqvist
CIO Cybercom Group
Born 1976M.Sc. Electrical and Electronics Engineer -
ing, Royal Institue of Technology With Cybercom since: 2016
Previous: ÅF AB, Epsilon AB
Linda Westlund
Head of HR Cybercom Group
Born 1978
B.Sc. in Human Resource Management, 
Mid Sweden University
With Cybercom since: 2014 
Previous: Uniflex Bemanning, Mistat ABAnnika Nordlander
COO Cybercom Sweden
Born 1959 Systems Engineering, Mid Sweden 
 University
With Cybercom since: 2014
Previous: Ericsson, Fujitsu, Merkantildata, 
DFind IT, Proffice.
Veli-Matti Nurminen
Head of Cybercom Finland
M.Sc. Engineering, Lappeenranta 
 University of Technology
Born 1964
With Cybercom since: 2014
Previous: Tieto and Oy Visual  
Systems Ltd.Marcin Siech
Head of Cybercom Poland
Born 1975
M.Sc. Computer Science from Technical 
University of Lodz, EMBA Diploma from University of Towson and Certificate 
EMBA from Robert H.Smith School of 
Business (University of  Maryland)
With Cybercom since: 2005
Previous: Teleca, ComputerlandBo Strömqvist
Head of Sales Cybercom Group Born 1964
Bachelor Degree in System Analysis, 
Linköping University, Washington State University 
With Cybercom since: 2012 
Previous: Rational Software, IBM, TDC, 
Cision, Enea 
Camilla Öberg
CFO Cybercom Group
Born 1964 
Degree in Economics and Business 
Administration, Stockholm School  of Economics
With Cybercom since: 2012 
Previous: Logica, WM-data, SEB,  
Lexicon and the Swegro group Johan Wallin
Head of Solutions
Born 1964
M.Sc. Computer Systems and 
 Engineering, Chalmers University of 
 technology (CTH)
With Cybercom since: 2007
Previous: Ericsson, Teleca
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 44 EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAMGenerated economic valueEconomic performance 
The table shows Cybercom’s generated direct economic value and how this is distributed to various stakeholder groups. 
SEKk 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Generated direct economic value
Revenues 1,463,498 1,353,925 1,259,598 1,262,887 1,195,135
Distributed economic value
Employee benefits –785,184 –766,570 –782,933 –824,303 –793,840
Other external expenses –522,884 –480,000 –408,590 –345,921 –314,732
Charitable donations1) –989 –549 –575 –521 –142
EBITDA 154,440 106,806 67,500 92,142 86,421
Investment activities –24,580 –23,363 –23,873 –26,373 –26,199
Net finance income/expense –2,592 –5,588 –2,621 –2,490 –6,904
Dividends 0 0 0 –9,022 0
Corporation tax paid by country2)
Denmark –1,062 0 0 0 –35
El Salvador 0 0 0 0 –51
Finland –7,368 –3,503 –925 –3,567 –752
India –2,138 –754 –573 –1,637 –774
Italy 0 0 –1 0 0
Korea –1,316 –1,163 –809 –123 0
Paraguay 0 0 0 0 –440
Poland –1,314 –2,730 –1,755 –472 68
Rwanda 0 –187 0 –1,350 –1,048
Senegal 0 0 0 –4,775 –7,227
Singapore 0 –466 185 24 –33
Sweden –13,008 –4,215 –1 –319 –160
Taiwan –114 –126 –121 –94 0
Tanzania –404 –431 –802 –582 –2,283
Chad 0 –583 –546 –383 0
Germany 0 –10 0 0 0
Retained economic value 100,545 63,687 35,658 40,979 40,583
1)  As of 2017, the value of pro bono work for charity has been included in the “Charity” line item under “Distributed value” in the total amount of SEK 900 thousand. In 2017, 
employees of Cybercom worked approximately 1,000 hours pro bono in various projects directed at increasing interest in IT among young people in collaboration with  Hello World and Universeum, as well as projects aimed at facilitating social integration for immigrants with a background in IT. The pro bono work corresponds to a value of SEK 465 thousand, which is included in revenues in the table above. Cybercom has also provided premises and ancillary services at no charge to Hello World, corresponding  to a value of SEK 435 thousand.
2)  In the countries where the company has paid withholding tax, these amounts have been included in the amount of tax paid.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 45Consolidated income statement – Group
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income – GroupSEKk 2017 2016
Net sales 1,439,790 1,327,899
Other operating income 23,243 26,025
Employee benefits –800,365 –780,320
Other external expenses –508,227 –466,798
Depreciation and amortisation –37,708 –39,050
Capital gain or loss upon sale of subsidiary –4,270 –
Operating profit 112,462 67,756
Financial income 2,580 762
Financial expense –5,172 –6,350
Profit before tax 109,871 62,168
Taxes –28,010 –17,249
Profit for the year 81,860 44,919
SEKk 2017 2016
Profit for the year 81,860 44,919
Other comprehensive income
Items that have or may be transferred to profit and loss for the period
Translation differences arising from translation of foreign operations 6,693 8,885
Comprehensive income for the year 88,553 53,805
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 88,553 53,805
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 46 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCEConsolidated balance sheet – Group 
SEKk 2017 2016
Assets
Noncurrent assets
Goodwill 332,589 329,356
Other intangible assets 69,099 82,778
Property, plant and equipment 30,973 31,310
Financial assets 1,232 1,195
Deferred tax assets 4,579 5,273
Total noncurrent assets 438,473 449,912
Current assets
Trade receivables 437,287 334,811
Tax assets 551 968
Other receivables 26,012 19,323
Prepaid expenses 14,720 17,612
Cash and cash equivalents 61,319 62,023
Assets held for sale 0 10,324
Total current assets 539,889 445,061
Total assets 978,361 894,974
Equity and liabilitiesEquity
Share capital 50 50
Other contributed capital 391,558 391,558
Retained earnings including profit for the year 130,178 41,625
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 521,786 433,233
Total equity 521,786 433,233
Noncurrent liabilitiesTax assets 18,687 17,944
Other receivables 80,518 101,971
Prepaid expenses 1,265 686
Total noncurrent liabilities 100,470 120,601
Current liabilities
Advances from clients 34,336 34,935
Provisions for restructuring measures 1,227 4,872
Trade payables 130,374 110,850
Tax liabilities 15,930 3,492
Liabilities to credit institutions 21,677 32,000
Other current liabilities 38,374 36,691
Accrued expenses and prepaid income 114,187 118,014
Liabilities relating to assets held for sale 0 286
Total current liabilities 356,105 341,140
Total equity and liabilities 978,361 894,974
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 47Consolidated statement of cash flow – Group
SEKk 2017 2016
Operating activities
Profit before tax 109,871 62,168
Adjustment for non-cash items 34,936 48,075
Cash flow from operations 144,807 110,243
Income tax paid –13,989 –9,617
Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 130,818 100,626
Change in trade receivables –97,424 –33,284
Change in other current receivables 1,934 7,642
Change in trade payables 18,369 2,197
Change in other current liabilities –4,184 19,493
Cash flow from operating activities 49,512 96,675
Investing activities
Investments in intangible assets –1,860 –1,953
Investments in property, plant and equipment –12,792 –11,736
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net effect on cash and cash equivalents –5,856 –19,127
Cash flow from investing activities –20,509 –32,816
Financing activities
Financial liability/leasing 6 –1,305
Repayment of debt –32,000 –45,000
Cash flow from financing activities –31,994 –46,305
Cash flow for the year –2,990 17,554
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 62,023 41,412
Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 2,286 3,057
Total equity and liabilities 61,319 62,023
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 48 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCEGRI Index
General standard indicators Page reference/remarks Global Compact Principle
G4-1 Statement from the CEO on the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability 6–7
G4-3 The name of the organisation Cover, back
G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 14–17, 24–25
G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Cover, back
G4-6 Countries where the organisation has significant operations 4
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 4
G4-8 Markets served 4–5
G4-9 Scale of the organisation 4–5, 38, 45–47
G4-10 Total number of employees 38
G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 39 Principle 3
G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain 15, 37, 41
G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period No significant changes
G4-14 Whether the precautionary approach is addressed 37 Principle 7
G4-15 Externally developed initiatives to which the organisation subscribes 6–7, 11
G4-16 Memberships of associations 6–7, 20
G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 4–5
G4-18 Process for defining the report content 36
G4-19 Material aspects identified 36
G4-20 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary within the organisation 1
G4-21 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organisation 1
G4-22 Effects of restatements of information provided in previous reports 1
G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods No significant changes
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 36
G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 36
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 36
G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organisation has 
responded36
G4-28 Reporting period Inside cover
G4-29 Date of most recent report Inside cover
G4-30 Reporting cycle Inside cover
G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Cover, back
G4-32 In accordance option & GRI content index 49–50
G4-33 External assurance Inside cover
G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation 51
G4-56 Organisation’s values, code of conduct, etc. 37 Principle 10The following list provides references to the GRI indicators that Cybercom has elected to report in accordance  
with the materiality assessment and the ten principles of the Global Compact.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI INDEX 49General standard indicators Page reference/remarks Global Compact Principle
DMA Economic performance 45–47
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 4, 45
DMA Employment 20, 39–40
G4-LA1 Employee turnover 38
DMA Occupational health & safety 20, 39–40
G4-LA6 Absenteeism & work-related injury 39
DMA Training & education 20–21, 39
G4-LA9 Employee training 39
G4-LA11 Development reviews 39
DMA Equal opportunity 20, 37, 38–40 Principle 6
G4-LA12 Composition of the company 38
DMA Non-discrimination 20, 37, 38–40 Principles 1, 2, 4, 5 & 6
G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination 39
DMA Anti-corruption 37, 41 Principle 10
G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption 41
DMA Customer privacy 37, 41 Principle 1
G4-PR8 Number of losses of customer data 41
DMA Energy 16, 42 Principle 8
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 42
G4-EN5 Energy intensity 42
DMA Emissions 16, 42 Principle 8
G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 42
G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 42
DMA Products & services 14–17 Principle 9
G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 14–18, 42
DMA Product and service labelling 14–15
G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 14GRI Index
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 50 GRI INDEXTo the general meeting of the shareholders in Cybercom Holding AB reg. no. 559025-7001
Engagement and responsibility
It is the board of directors who are responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2017 on pages 1–50 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion.
Opinion
A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. 
Stockholm, 9 April 2018
KPMG AB
Helena Arvidsson Älgne
Authorised Public AccountantAuditor’s report on the statutory  
sustainability reportBoard of directors’ signaturesSustainability work at Cybercom is under the 
joint responsibility and control of the executive leadership team. Initiatives are led and coordi-nated by the company’s Head of Sustainability and Communications. 
Cybercom has a flexible sustainability organi-
sation in which representatives of operations and the business are included. From the opera-tional side, the CFO and representatives of the Legal, Environmental, Quality and HR depart-ments. From the business side, the organisation includes Cybercom’s executive management and representatives of our advisory services and sales. Innovation Zone, our marketing forum and our recruitment specialists also contribute to Cybercom’s sustainability initiatives. Finally, seven Sustainability Ambassadors from various parts of the organisation support the work of the Head of Sustainability and Communications. During 2017, the Sustainability Ambassadors worked with sustainable leadership, sustainable business, education and communications.
Board of directors 
During the year the board has focused on important board issues as the company’s strat-egy, business plan and budget, the company’s financing and industry trends. The board  monitors management performance through 
monthly reports which include reports of  financial results, key performance indicators, 
development of priority activities and so on.
Corporate governance 
The general meeting is the company’s supreme governing body. It is at the general meeting that shareholders are able to exert their influence. Shareholders who want to participate in a gen-eral meeting must be recorded as shareholders on a printout or other reproduction of the entire register of shareholders representing conditions five days before the meeting and must also notify the company of their participation by the date stated in the notice of the meeting.
Organisation 
Stockholm, 21 March 2018
Board of directors
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ORGANISATION, SIGNATURES AND AUDITOR'S REPORT 51Production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson  
in cooperation with Cybercom
Photo: Mattias Bardå, Emil Svensson 
Print: Åtta45For more information about Cybercom’s sustainability  work and the Sustainability Report, please contact: 
Kristina Cato
Head of Sustainability and Communications
kristina.cato@cybercom.com 
+46 708 64 47 02
  NORDIC ECOLABEL+46 8 578 646 00  
www.cybercom.com
Cybercom Holding AB
Box 7574S-103 93 Stockholm | SwedenBydgoszcz I Gothenburg I Helsinki I Jönköping 
 
Karlskrona I Kista I Copenhagen I Linköping  
Lund I Łódz I Malmö I Mumbai I Stockholm  
Sundsvall I Tampere I Warsaw I Östersund