M A K ER S 
OF 
 TOMORROWOFFERING IN
DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITYROADMAP FOR
A FOSSIL FREE SWEDENPUBLIC SECTOR  
TAKES THE AI LEAD
12 18 20
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018The Fourth Industrial Revolution is on the way. Virtually all com-
panies and organisations are stepping into a digital reality. And 
things are moving fast. For Cybercom, this is our home playing 
field. We are making tomorrow, today.
We help our clients capture the opportunities of digitalisation. 
We provide innovative, secure and sustainable solutions in IT 
and communications technology by combining technical edge 
and strong business insight. This applies whether the issue is 
transforming products into services, developing new business 
models or helping the public sector get closer to citizens.
We are found where technology and business development meet. 
We think big. We test, learn and adapt. And the distance from 
planning to action is short. The single objective is for our clients 
to succeed in the connected world. 
This is how we are making tomorrow, today.MAKERS OF TOMORROW
2  This Sustainability Report is presented by the board of directors of Cybercom Holding (reg. No. 559025-7001). Cybercom issues annual sustainability reports. This is the company’s ninth Sustainability Report,  
and the most recent previous report was published in April 2018. The Sustainability Report was prepared based on the requirements set forth in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL) and GRI Standards,  
Core option. The Sustainability Report also serves as Cybercom’s annual report to the UN Global Compact. A complete list of disclosures under GRI and the Global Compact is provided on pages 38–39.  
The auditor’s opinion on the statutory sustainability report is on page 36. The Sustainability Report has not been externally reviewed.     MAKERS OF TOMORROW
6This is Cybercom 
8CEO’s comment 
10World and market 
11Offering 
14Targets and outcomes 2018 
15Strategy for 2021     MAKING TOMORROW
18IoT saves spawning fish in the Lillån River 
The digitalisation consultancy industry’s 
 roadmap for a fossil free future
19AR app helps kids feel better 
The most innovative cinema in Europe
AR guides citizens to public services 
20Leading-edge technology for higher 
 occupational safety
IoT and gas springs for more efficient  
industry
The public sector takes the AI lead
21S Group contributes to a more  
sustainable Finland 
 Digital signatures are making Official  
Sweden more efficient 
22Employees    MAKING PROGRESS
28Material sustainability aspects
Materiality analysis 
Results of the materiality analysis
Stakeholders and engagement 
29Governance  
30Employees 
32Clients 
33Internal environmental work 
34Risks and risk management
35Economic performance
36Executive leadership team
Auditor's report
Board of directors' signatures
38GRI and UNGC IndexCONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018CEO’S COMMENT P . 8 THIS IS CYBERCOM P . 6
THE DIGITALISATION CONSULTANCY INDUSTRY’S 
ROADMAP FOR A FOSSIL FREE FUTURE P . 18IOT SAVES SPAWNING FISH IN THE LILLÅN RIVER 
P . 18THE MOST INNOVATIVE CINEMA IN EUROPE P . 19
DIGITAL SIGNATURES ARE MAKING OFFICIAL 
 SWEDEN MORE EFFICIENT P . 21EMPLOYEES P . 22WORLD AND MARKET P . 10
AR APP HELPS KIDS FEEL BETTER P . 19
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018  3 4 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Cybercom has its sights set on the future: we  
are passionate about helping companies and  
organisations succeed in the connected world. 
And we are committed to doing it better than 
anyone else. The time has come to put words 
into action. We are cross-pollinating technical 
expertise with business insight and creating  
innovative solutions for a sustainable society. 
This is our contribution to future-proofing our 
clients’ business. 
And our own.0
0
0O
0
0000
B R1
1111
1E
M
0
0C01
1MA ING
0 CY
0K
0
 5 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Poland and India and have  
assignments in 20 countries.We operate in
A selection of clients
Alma Media, the Swedish Public Employment Service, ASSA ABLOY, 
the Finnish Population Register Centre, Ericsson, Husqvarna, IKEA, 
KONE, MTV Finland, Posti Group, SKF, Sony Mobile, Stockholm 
County Council, the Swedish Tax Agency, TDC, TomTom,  
the Finnish National Board of Education and Volvo Cars.This is Cybercom
Vision
We are makers of a sustainable future and we are our clients’ 
most trusted business partner in the connected world. About us
Cybercom is an innovative IT consultancy firm. We are working every day to 
connect people, machines and services to make them work more smoothly 
together. Our consultants and the solutions they create take us all the way 
from e-services in the Nordic public sector to streamed media and driverless 
cars in Europe, national eIDs, secure card payments and health apps to 
healthcare, connected cranes and lifts and smart industrial robots.
New majority shareholder
In February 2019, Formica Capital became the new controlling shareholder 
of Cybercom. In the new ownership structure, Formica Capital owns 51 per -
cent of the shares. JCE Group owns 41 percent, Tequity around 6 percent 
and CEO Niklas Flyborg around 2 percent. Formica Capital was formed in 
2018 and makes impact investments in which social benefits are important 
in addition to the yield. The company is owned by the Olsson Eriksson family. 
 Cybercom has been in private ownership since 2015, when JCE Group 
and Tequity bought out the company from the Stockholm stock exchange. 
Business concept 
We help you capture opportunities in the connected world.   
By combining technical edge with strong business insights we 
 provide solutions that are innovative and enhance sustainability. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 6 THIS IS CYBERCOM1,290
EMPLOYEES 
1,678.1
SALES (SEKm)93%
BUSINESS WITH SUSTAINABILITY EFFECTS 142.3
PROFIT AFTER AMORTISATION  
(SEKm)20
COUNTRIES WHERE CYBERCOM  
HAS ASSIGNMENTS45
NATIONALITIES 
Five-year review 
Operational performance  
and key figures 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Operating income, SEKm 1,678.1 1,463.0 1,353.9 1,259.6 1,262.9
Operating profit after amortisation, 
SEKm1)142.3 112.5 67.8 38.3 65.8
Total assets, SEKm 1,102.9 978.4 895 879.4 1,265.9
Average number of employees 1,223 1,157 1,110 1,150 1,190
Number of employees at end of year 1,290 1,262 1,203 1,218 1,307
Operating margin, % 8.5 7.7 5.0 3.0 5.2
Equity/assets, % 57 53 48 44 73Created and distributed value Values 
We are driven by a passion to change things for the better. We build 
trust through honesty and transparency. With good business insight and 
innovative solutions, we are contributing to new ways of thinking and  
 new business models.
PASSION INNOVATION TRUST  
1)   Operating profit after depreciation and amortisation pertains to profit before impairment of goodwill and a capital loss on the sale of a subsidiary.  Employee benefits, including social 
security contributions 54.9%
 Other external expenses 41.6% 
 Investment activities 1.2% 
 Net finance income/expense 0.2% 
 Taxes 2.0% 
 Charitable donations 0.04%2)
2)  As of 2017, the value of pro bono work has been 
included in the “Charitable donations” item. 
Cybercom performed pro bono work in 2018 
worth SEK 530 thousand for Hello World!.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 THIS IS CYBERCOM 7Technology and digitalisation 
in the service of humanity  
We are aiming for net positive impact and are committed  
to generating sustainable business and assuring positive social 
 development. Our strategy for 2019–2021 has clear focus on  
innovation and sustainability. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CEO’S COMMENT 8High growth and good margins 
A successful year has come to an end. Demand for 
Cybercom’s services is high and we are growing in 
all of our markets. Our positioning in connectivity, IT 
security and cloud services resulted in organic growth 
of 14 percent in 2018. Our clients are found in the 
manufacturing industry, public sector and service 
industry. We have followed our strategic plan, further 
developed our services and achieved a shift of our 
deliveries from IT departments to our clients’ business 
side. This generated higher profitability and profit 
before amortisation related to acquisitions amounted 
to SEK 162 million for the year, which we are proud 
of. The financial targets in Cybercom’s recently 
 completed three-year plan were annual growth of 
5 percent and a margin of 10 percent at the end of 
the period.  
In the new three-year plan, we have set our sights 
on continued growth and higher profitability, which 
will be accomplished by means including advisory 
 services and focus on IT security and cloud services. 
Consequently, Cybercom Secure and CABG (Cybercom 
AWS Business Group) will become separate business 
areas as of 2019. 
Our business must support Agenda 2030  
Makers of Tomorrow is our mission and our identity. 
We intend to make a sustainable tomorrow and be 
our clients’ most trusted business partner in the 
 connected world. 
We are living in an amazing time – machine learn-
ing and AI are gaining serious importance and the 5G 
networks are poised to future-proof smart social and 
business critical solutions. The UN Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is emphasising the 
opportunity to take advantage of digitalisation to 
develop technical innovations, organisations, busi-
ness models and behaviours, and to reduce global 
energy requirements. This is an important message, 
and one that we take to heart in our business and 
 service development. To give one concrete example, 
right from the quotation stage our sales staff note in 
the CRM system whether our solution can contribute 
to attaining the global Sustainable Development 
Goals and, if so, which ones. 
We are firmly rooted in our values of dynamism 
and insight into the effects of our products and ser -
vices. We are driven by a passion to change things for 
the better. We generate trust through honesty and 
transparency. With strong business insight and inno-
vative solutions, we are encouraging innovative think-
ing and new business models. This also means that 
we are continuing to support the UN Global Compact 
and its ten principles for human rights, labour, envi-
ronment and anti-corruption.Digitalisation and sustainability 
work hand-in-glove 
Digitalisation is the strongest social trend of our time 
and a catalyst for human development. Technology 
can have positive or negative impact and our role is 
to guide clients in a positive direction to promote 
 sustainable business and future-proof social develop-
ment. Digitalisation and global sustainability should 
work hand-in-glove, and we believe they are a joint 
driver of innovation and growth. This is what lies 
behind Cybercom bringing together industry col-
leagues and leading the work with the  digitalisation 
consultancies roadmap for a  fossil free Sweden. 
The endless potential of technology 
We are convinced that digitalisation can transform 
traditional industries, which can in turn reduce and 
ultimately eliminate the use of fossil fuels. At this 
point, no one knows exactly where the outer limits 
of technology lie. It is highly likely that technology is 
going to help us overcome great challenges. But that 
is also going to require thoughtfulness and rules of 
ethics and privacy. One example of this is GDPR, 
implemented in 2018, an area where Cybercom’s IT 
security experts are helping clients assure compliance.  
Cybercom is taking on the skills challenge 
Access to the right skills is the greatest challenge fac-
ing Cybercom and the entire industry. We need more 
graduate engineers, systems developers, architects 
and specialists than are currently available. According 
to Swedish IT and Telecom Industries, there will be a 
shortage of 70,000 IT specialists in Sweden – and 
750,000 in Europe – by 2022. The competition for 
skills is increasing and the consequences include a 
high employee turnover rate. Cybercom is addressing 
the challenge in several ways, and we reduced our 
employee turnover rate by 3 percent between 2017 
and 2018. We recruit globally and more than 45 
nationalities are currently represented among our 
employees. Inclusion and diversity are important to 
Cybercom: they create a favourable dynamic for our 
talents and innovation projects. Our skills network is large and growing. We collabo-
rate with a large partner network of self- employed 
consultants. We provided work for 500 consultants 
in 2018, in addition to our own. We have expanded 
our internal specialist academies. We are a partner to 
Hello World!, a successful NGO that offers children 
and young people opportunities to learn digital 
 creation, aimed at sparking interest in technology and 
inspiring more young people to apply to technical 
universities. We are also a proud Founding Partner to 
Women in Tech, whose mission is to increase interest 
in technology among women. We are convinced that 
all of us in the Nordics and the entire EU must collab-
orate to encourage digital development and skills, 
and we are going to do our bit.  
Strategy for specialisation and  
business benefit 
Our strategy for 2015–2018 delivered the intended 
impact and brought us closer to our key accounts, with  
the results of client surveys and recruitment processes. 
The time has come for a new plan to guide the 
development of Cybercom in 2019–2021. We are 
aiming at more distinct specialisation and centres 
of excellence in our operations in Sweden, Finland, 
 Denmark, Poland and India. In addition, we will be 
sharpening our focus on innovation and sustainability 
in our client offering and employee skills develop-
ment. We will strengthen our leadership capacity 
through a corporate leadership training programme. 
Innovation and sustainability must inform our actions 
and our day-to-day work. Consequently, all employ-
ees will spend more time on innovation work and 
understanding sustainability. In order to ensure a 
shift, we are implementing targets and key data  
for these areas. 
Thank you
Our work with clients will be characterised by a 
 continued climb up the value chain; we will ensure 
we are working with clients where we can expand 
our advisory services and contribute measurable 
 business benefit. 
In closing, I would like to thank all employees, 
 clients, owners and partners – together, we made 
2018 worthwhile! I am looking ahead with new 
energy, as business development is now at top speed. 
 
Niklas Flyborg 
President, CEO and Maker of Tomorrow“We are developing 
operations in the light  
of the 17 global SDGs. 
They are our frame-
work for generating 
business.”
9 CEO’S COMMENT CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Cybercom’s clients are operating in an era 
of intensive change. They demand close 
collaboration and innovativeness.
The Fourth Industrial Revolution: The scope and 
significance of digitalisation is vast – we are in the 
midst of a Fourth Industrial Revolution that affects 
us all. This is not merely a technical shift. It is a total 
transformation of how we interact with each other, 
including how we do business. 
Without doubt, this transformation is the most 
important driving force behind Cybercom and our 
industry. The impact is great – according to IDC, 
more than 60 percent of global GDP will be 
 digitalised by 2022.1) Businesses that fail to move 
in that direction are going to see their markets shrink. 
Prerequisites and technologies: The fifth genera-
tion network (5G) is a prerequisite for the digital 
world. The fact is that 5G is expected to be as rev-
olutionary as the advent of the internet because 
it not only increases bandwidth, it creates scope 
for entirely new activities. 5G is going to change 
societies all over the world, and it uses less energy than 
previous-  generation networks. 4G transmits to all 
devices 46 percent of the time, while 5G transmits 
only 2 percent of the time. There will be more machine communication in the 5G networks. Communication 
for self-driving cars that can reduce the number of 
road traffic accidents, mobile medicine and connected 
patients in rural areas are examples of social benefit 
potential. 5G will give rise to smart indoor and out-
door lighting and to energy-smart buildings. 5G might 
be the most important technological advance for 
meeting the Paris Agreement goal of maintaining a 
global warming this century well below 2 °C above 
pre-industrial levels.
Many digitalisation technologies already exist. 
AI and machine learning are going to find their 
way into all existing technologies. Physical and 
digital environments will be blended to create digi-
tally enhanced – and yet realistic – experiences. AR 
(augmented reality) and VR (virtual reality) are two 
examples of this. Robotisation and automation are 
shaking up manufacturing industries in particular. 
High standards for security: We are being con-
fronted with new risks as more – and increasingly 
important – aspects of society are digitalised. Inade-
quate security can have serious consequences, 
from disruptions or total breakdown of vital 
public operations like energy supply to threats 
to personal privacy and identity. Physical assets 
can also be affected. Secure and resilient systems are essential to make optimal use of technology, 
along with the ability to assess risks and opportunities 
and take action in the right direction. 
Digitalisation and sustainability together:
The widespread support of the UN Sustainable Devel-
opment Goals and Agenda 2030 is a clear sign of the 
willingness of business to contribute to sustainable 
development. We believe our sector can contribute 
to all SDGs, but especially Goals 3, 4, 5, 9, 11 and 13. 
Turn to page 13 to find out what the ICT sector can 
do for sustainable development and how Cybercom 
is helping make that happen.
Cybercom’s markets and priorities: All Cybercom 
geographies are affected by the trends mentioned 
above. The industrial sector in northern Europe where 
the majority of Cybercom’s clients are found is devel-
oping new business and service models, often with 
digital support such as IoT (Internet of Things). Nordic 
public sectors are investing in digitalisation of opera-
tions and services. Most operations need to further 
develop their technical skills due to digitalisation. 
Cybercom can make a big difference in all of these 
situations. Turn to the strategy section on page 15 
to learn how we are grasping the opportunities. 
1)  IDC FutureScape: Worldwide IT Industry 2019 Predictions.Macro trends and their social impact 
Digitalisation entails huge potential for many parts of society and business. 
Citizens: The convenience we experi-
ence, as e-shoppers for example, is 
shaping our expectations in other 
areas, including society. This involves 
the entire relationship to society, from 
the democratic process to public ser -
vices and all interactions with public 
agencies. Digital solutions are being 
used to vastly improve the effi-
ciency of public management. This 
is a huge transition for public agencies 
– new demands are being placed on 
methods, organisations, systems and, 
not least importantly, the approach to 
citizens and business.Cities: By 2050, about 70 percent of 
the world's population is expected to 
live in cities, on a land area three times 
the size of what it was in 2000. In other 
words, many cities of the future have 
yet to be born. Urbanisation and dig-
italisation entail great opportuni-
ties to make life more sustainable 
in terms of energy, infrastructure, 
mobility and much more. The city 
becomes a device of a sort, one that 
can control how we use energy, ensure 
accessibility and manage self-driving 
cars that communicate with each other 
and their surroundings.Consumers: Digitalisation is redrawing 
the consumption map, with new busi-
ness models and offerings. People no 
longer buy a product, they buy a 
solution. Relationships are changing 
and it is no longer obvious who is the 
owner, producer or user. New net-
works are taking shape. One example 
is the smart home, with security solu-
tions that might also incorporate con-
nected services from other providers, 
such as health monitoring or single-use 
door codes for home deliveries.Industry: Digitalisation is not only 
affecting individual product character -
istics, but also business models. This 
often involves servitisation, where 
company offerings are transformed 
from products to services. Connecting 
production and products has profound 
impact. Data collection and analysis 
make it possible to streamline both 
production and use. What used to be 
separated is connected. Everything 
is optimised in systems instead of 
individual units. The sustainability 
effects include higher security, trace-
ability and lower energy consumption.A world in digital transformation 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 10 WORLD AND MARKETWe are investing in expertise to remain on 
the forefront of business and technology 
development. This provides opportunities 
for our employees to flourish in their areas 
of interest and boosts business value for 
our clients.
Responsive and solutions-oriented  
We aim to be the client’s most trusted business partner. 
Understanding our clients, their markets, challenges 
and needs is essential to us. In a world of intensive tech 
development we must provide proactive advice, analyse 
consequences and lead the way. This is not Business as 
Usual anymore. It is Business as Unusual. With innova-
tive power and focus on sustainability, we can partner 
with our clients to create significant competitive advan-
tages or efficiency improvements.
By collaborating closely with clients, we shorten the 
path from idea to commercialised product or service. 
Cybercom brings skills, resources and support. We also 
help our clients reach their customers and consumers in 
a smarter way. Here, we contribute with qualified busi-
ness development and advisory services.
Everyone at Cybercom has business responsibility in 
the form of sales and/or delivery. We prioritise long-term 
collaboration and relationships and have Group KAMs.
Innovative 
and 
sustainable solutions 50%
PERCENTAGE OF CLIENTS WHO CONSIDER  
CYBERCOM THE MOST TRUSTED BUSINESS PARTNER  
IN THE CONNECTED WORLD 91%
PERCENTAGE OF CLIENTS THAT WILL 
DEFINITELY OR PROBABLY  
CONTINUE TO ENGAGE CYBERCOM
“Our clients expect a proactive 
 dialogue and that we will always 
be thinking one step ahead.  
We are happy to take up the 
challenge.”
   BO STRÖMQVIST, HEAD OF SALES72%
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX
 
BUSINESS AND ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
We transform companies and organisations to become digital and sustainable and 
become more competitive over the long term. Examples: Development of new 
 business models and strategies for cloud services or data management.
AGILE TEAMS AND SERVICES
We apply agile and interactive systems development for faster, more reliable market 
delivery. Examples: Development of new technology like 5G, or in major system 
deliveries to the public sector.
SECURITY
We help companies and organisations determine the right level  
of security for their operations. Examples: Risk analysis, compliance, e-signatures 
and security management.  
INNOVATION AND SERVICE DESIGN
Accelerate the capacity to take successful concepts to market.  
Examples: New services based on insights into users and their needs. WHAT CYBERCOM DOES
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OFFERING 11Innovation and digitalisation are critical 
to sustainable development
According to the Low Energy Demand scenario 
emphasised in the latest report from the UN Intergov-
ernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), greater 
focus on innovation and digitalisation is a pathway to 
keeping global warming below 1.5 °C. This is also the 
scenario that delivers the most towards achieving the 
other global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Methods for achieving digital  
sustainability
As consultants, we have a responsibility to ensure 
that some of the most powerful tools that human-
kind has ever created are implemented by our clients 
in a way that assures long-term sustainable growth, 
sharper competitiveness and a future for the genera-
tions of tomorrow.
We have addressed this issue by developing several 
methods that help our clients understand how digital-
isation impacts business models, organisational 
approaches, behaviours and the technology we use.The following methods fit within the concept we call 
digital sustainability:  
1. Opportunity/risk assessment
Digitalisation can accelerate development in either a 
positive or negative direction. The wrong investments 
can be costly and contribute to locking in old business 
models. The right investments in digitalisation can 
produce substantial returns for a long time to come 
and pave the way to new opportunities. 
This is why we are helping our clients identify risks 
and opportunities associated with planned digitalisa-
tion and giving them recommendations on choosing 
the strategic direction. We also work with clients all 
the way through deployment to ensure that our con-
tribution goes beyond support and inspiration to 
actual implementation.
2. UX, service design and nudging
Many sustainable solutions are adopted not because 
we are raising awareness of energy consumption or 
how the solutions are contributing to sustainable 
development. Clients choose them because they make users’ lives easier or better. Delivering sustain-
ability and communicating sustainability are not 
 necessarily the same thing. 
We help our clients identify users’ needs and 
behaviours in order to design globally sustainable 
 services that are perceived as faster, more attractive, 
more convenient, more human, more efficient and 
more fun. 
3. Business transformation for increased sales  
by contributing to sustainability
In these collaborative projects, we are working with 
clients to explore new business models and value 
propositions that focus on global sustainability. In so 
doing, we are turning the profound social challenges 
of our time into business opportunities.
In concrete terms, we are helping our clients 
develop products and services that contribute to 
achieving vital social goals through their core business 
and sales. And we are assessing the life-cycle impact 
of products and services in order to deliver net positive 
impact: end-to-end they should do more good than 
harm to our society or our planet.Technology is helping us turn social challenges into business opportunities – our offering 
must contribute to sustainable development resulting in higher competitiveness and growth. Global sustainability  
as a driver  
of innovation and 
growth
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 12 OFFERINGPOTENTIAL
•  Increase access to information and 
healthcare
•  Bring care providers and service users 
closer together, making it easier to give 
and receive care 
•  Increase efficiency and security in the 
chain of care in terms of e.g., logistics 
and spreading information 
 
CURRENT SITUATION  
In 2018, Cybercom won about thirty 
new contracts that contribute to the 
Good Health and Well-Being goal. Sev-
eral assignments focused on improving 
healthcare and increasing patient safety. 
Cybercom also delivered services to per -
sonal alarm companies. POTENTIAL
•  Improve resource efficiency in consump-
tion and production and contribute  
to breaking the connection between 
economic growth and  environmental 
destruction
•  Promote occupational health and safety 
•  Facilitate employment, training and 
work experience placements for groups 
including young people 
•  Develop secure and user-friendly 
 internet banking systems, e-IDs and 
e-signature systems.
CURRENT SITUATION 
A large share of Cybercom’s assignments 
are within the public sector. These include 
strengthening public actors whose task is 
to increase employment. Turn to page 20 
to find out how digital solutions can 
improve occupational health and safety. POTENTIAL
•  Make it possible to manage and opti-
mise infrastructure, for water and roads 
for example, but also for communication
• Increase interaction and innovation
•  Improve resource efficiency and 
 productivity, e.g., by means of 
advanced logistics systems
 
 
 
CURRENT SITUATION 
From the perspective of Cybercom’s sales 
per global SDG, Goal 9 ends up in first 
place by a wide margin A large share of 
Cybercom’s client assignments contribute 
to innovations for and development of 
industry and infrastructure. Read about 
one exciting example – what IoT can do 
for industry – on page 20. 
CONTRIBUTIONS BY CYBERCOM AND ITS CLIENTS TO THE GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
POTENTIAL
•   Increase access to information and thus 
to what the city has to offer, such as 
housing, transport, sharing services and 
education
•  Improve productivity, governance, 
enterprise and democratic participation
•  Develop construction and buildings, 
e.g., with smart networks for energy 
and water  
•  Develop systems that measure and 
visualise air quality
•  Develop systems for detecting, pre -
dicting and preventing disasters.
CURRENT SITUATION  
A large share of Cybercom’s new business 
in 2018 is contributing to Goal 11. This 
involves, for example, essential infrastruc-
ture and 5G networks, IT security and 
new services in the public sector. POTENTIAL
•  Contribute to building efficient and 
transparent institutions 
•  Contribute to responsive and inclusive 
decision-making  
•  Contribute to public access to information  
•  Strengthen IT security and fight cyber -
crime
 
CURRENT SITUATION  
New business for the year includes assign-
ments that contribute to Goal 16. Here 
as well, this involves projects for public 
sector organisations with regard to infor -
mation security, among else. You will find 
two examples from the Finnish public 
 sector on pages 19 and 20. SUMMARY
Cybercom strives for assignments that 
bring one or more sustainability effects. 
This may include, for example, servitisa-
tion, dematerialisation, increased transpar -
ency, security and energy savings.
 Business ethics are addressed at each 
executive leadership meeting, and poten-
tial new clients and assignments that use 
digitalisation to accelerate development in 
the opposite direction from Agenda 2030 
are discussed. For example, we have opted 
out of assignments for certain gambling 
companies and political organisations.
 From 2018, we also categorise and follow 
up new client assignments based on the 
assignment’s potential contribution to the 
UN’s global Sustainable Development Goals.
 We clearly see that our assignments make 
a positive difference. In total, 307 of our new 
assignments contributed to one or more 
global goals. In terms of revenue, Cybercom 
and its clients contributed mainly to Goal 9, 
followed by Goals 8, 11, 16 and 3.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OFFERING 13Targets and outcomes 2018
The target areas for the 2016–2019 strategy period were sustainable business, client base, assignment type, recruitment,  
business ethics, growth and profitability. The targets and outcomes for the year for each of these areas are presented here.
AGILE TEAMS
Cybercom offers teams of 
6–8 employees who apply 
agile methods to develop-
ment. The client pays a fixed 
price for the entire team.EXPERTISE
Cybercom offers one or more 
consultants to meet a particu-
lar need for the client. The 
 client pays for the skills and 
time delivered.PROJECTS
Cybercom takes responsibility 
for and delivers a project 
(such as development of a 
particular solution) or takes 
on a greater commitment. 
The client pays based on 
effect and value. As a result, 
the project may be delivered 
at a fixed price or on a contin-
uous billing basis.SERVICES
Cybercom takes responsibility 
for a system, application, fea-
ture or service and its mainte-
nance and uptime. The client 
pays a fixed price per month, 
but the service may include a 
variable component related 
to volume or time. LICENSING
The client has access to soft-
ware developed and owned 
by Cybercom in exchange 
for a licence, royalty and/or 
maintenance fee.We generate value for clients and revenues for Cybercom in several ways. Our business model is based on either continuous 
billing or fixed price commitments. We deliver in agile teams, expert assignments, project or service deliveries and licensing.Net recruitment for the 
year was 2.3% (4.9)Cybercom’s net recruitment will be at least 5 percent,  
with focus on more equal gender distribution. At least 
30 percent of employees should be women, reflecting 
the percentage of women who earn technical degrees. Cybercom will increase the percentage of business with 
sustainability effects. The assignments will contribute in 
various ways to achieving the UN Sustainable Develop-
ment Goals.
High ethics will be part of Cybercom’s DNA and be at  
the heart of our entire operations and all of our business. 
All employees will complete training in Cybercom’s Code 
of Conduct.
Cybercom will strive for growth of 5 percent per year  
over a business cycle. 
Cybercom will be one of the more profitable companies 
among its peer competitors and achieve an operating 
 margin of 10 percent.14%
9.7%21
4
5
6
7SUSTAINABLE  
BUSINESS
CLIENT BASE
3
TYPE OF ASSIGNMENT
RECRUITMENT
BUSINESS ETHICS
GROWTH
PROFITABILITYNet sales growth 14% (8)
Operating margin before 
acquisition amortisation 
9.7% (9.0).Refers to Cybercom’s  
ten largest clients
  Share of sustainable business  
in 2018 93%
  Share of sustainable business   
in 2017 88%
 Men 80% (81)
 Women 20% (19)TARGETS OUTCOMES REMARKS TARGET AREAS
Anti-corruption training
 Board of Directors 100% (100)
 Group management 90% (80)
 Other employees 56% (58)93%
80%
100%88%
Key accounts will generate 70 percent of sales, the ten 
largest clients for 50 percent and no individual client will 
account for more than 15 percent of sales. Key accounts 48% (46)
 10 largest clients 45% (43)
 Largest client 19% (17)48% 45%
19%
Cybercom will have even distribution between consultancy 
services and turnkey commitments. Consultancy services 61% (65)
 Turnkey commitments 39% (35)61%
39%
20%
90%
56%
CYBERCOM’S BUSINESS MODEL
14 TARGETS AND OUTCOME 2018 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20182021Cybercom’s strategy 2021
BUSINESS WITH  
SUSTAINABILITY  
EFFECTSINNOVATION CLIENT 
 SATISFACTIONEMPLOYEE 
 SATISFACTIONREVENUE 
PER HOURPROFITABILITY GROWTHNew target areas
2 3 4 5 6 7In order to succeed with our strategy, we will focus on and track the following target areas in 2019–2021MAKERS  
OF TOMORROW 
SUSTAINABILITYBUSINESS VALUE
SPECIALISATION 
INNOVATION 
The mission to create innovations for a 
 sustainable future, Makers of Tomorrow, is 
the foundation of Cybercom’s strategy. We 
have set our sights on 2021. By that time, 
Cybercom will be the most outstanding 
consultancy firm in Connectivity, Innovation 
and Sustainability. 
  
Business value: We are focusing on clients for whom 
Cybercom’s knowledge and services create the most 
value. We are pushing development and sustainability 
by being proactive and innovative. 
Makers of Tomorrow: We are focusing on profit-
able areas and investing in thought leadership and 
targeted skills development in order to grow faster 
than the market. We inspire colleagues, share insights, are change-driven, work in teams, reinforce 
our leadership capabilities and are the best workplace 
for Makers of Tomorrow. 
Makers of Tomorrow is our mission and our iden-
tity. We put words into action. We are cross-pollinat-
ing technical expertise with business insight and cre-
ating innovative solutions for a sustainable future.
Innovation: We are continuously exploring new 
and better methods. We are finding new paths and 
building new skills through groundbreaking client 
projects and our Innovation Zones.
Sustainability: Global sustainability is our driving 
force in our operations and business. We are encour -
aging good initiatives, leading by example and invest -
ing in positive sustainability effects. We strive for net 
positivity.Specialisation is our core 
Digitalisation and global sustainability are the main 
drivers of innovation and growth at Cybercom. Spe-
cialisation is at the core of our direction and focus is 
on creating growth, above and beyond selling hours. 
We are specialising ourselves and refining local cen-
tres of excellence. We are servitising our solutions to 
increase growth. We have zeroed in on the areas 
where we have solid experience and the expertise to 
develop even sharper offerings. Our focus is on con-
nectivity, sustainability and innovation, and we add 
client value by selling and delivering teams, services, 
projects and products. That is how we are climbing 
the value chain in the minds of our clients and becom-
ing more attractive to our employees.
1
15 STRATEGY CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 16Working closely with our clients is second nature to 
us at Cybercom. Ideally, we want to be considered 
an engine of value creation in their business. We 
earn that trust only by staying one step ahead and 
constantly sharpening our specialist skills. This 
 focus equips us to offer solutions that make it 
 possible for our clients to make a positive impression 
on the market. And on the planet.  
When all is said and done, that is what counts.0
0
00
O
0000
0 01
1111
11
1
W
0T01
RMA ING
M RO
0K
O
17 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018INNOVATION ZONE/ASSIGNMENTS | JÖNKÖPING COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD
IoT saves spawning fish in  
the Lillån River  
When everything is as it should be, the fish in the Lillån River near 
Bankeryd swim upstream to reproduce. The problem is that they 
have virtually stopped doing it – probably due to discharges to 
waterways of pollutants including ammonia. The Jönköping County 
Administrative Board monitors several water values to protect the 
river and its ecosystem. At present, measurements are taken manu-
ally on site, but not often, because this is extremely time-consuming 
and labour intensive. To address this issue, the County Administra-
tive Board has begun working with Cybercom. 
The assignment is to develop automated measuring equipment. 
The new equipment will make it possible to take the measurements 
virtually as often as they like. All values will be transmitted to the 
County Administrative Board’s database using the IoT LoRa (Long 
Range) technology and then made available to all. IoT that is rein-
forcing environmental measurements and environmental protection 
is undoubtedly a step in the right direction! 
 
Climate Action   
The goal is to take immediate action to fight 
climate change and its consequences. 
Life Below Water  
The goal aims at preserving and sustainably using oceans  
and marine resources for a sustainable development. 
ABOUT FOSSIL FREE SWEDEN
Started: As an initiative of the Swedish Govern-
ment ahead of the 2015  climate summit in 
Paris, with the goal of making Sweden one of 
the first  fossil-free countries in the world.
Is: A platform for dialogue and collaboration 
among companies, local  authorities cities, 
organisations, institutions and networks that 
want to contribute to Sweden becoming one of 
the world’s fossil-free countries.
Engages: Over 400 actors that believe the 
world must become fossil free and that Sweden 
should lead the way in this effort.
Led by: National Coordinator Svante Axelsson 
on behalf of the Swedish  Ministry of the Envi-
ronment and Energy.
PARTNERSHIP | FOSSIL FREE SWEDEN
The digitalisation consultancy  
industry’s roadmap for a fossil free future  
The Swedish Government was presented with the 
digitalisation consultancy industry’s roadmap for a 
fossil free future in March 2019. Thirty-three firms 
participated in the roadmap project, which was 
 managed by Cybercom and prepared within the 
framework of the Fossil Free Sweden initiative.
The roadmap shows how digital solutions can 
accelerate development towards a fossil free future. 
The linchpin is a joint transition involving the digital-
isation industry, users of digital solutions, politicians 
and other decision-makers. The roadmap has been 
prepared by an industry whose primary contribution 
is to enable other industries’ transition to a fossil free 
future rather than to reduce its own emissions. 
“We should drive three climate efforts in parallel: 
optimise current systems, accelerate initiatives and deploy entirely new system solutions to bring about 
transformation. The digitalisation consultancies play 
a critical role here. To make that happen, we have 
brought together our industry colleagues to back the 
roadmap and its calls,” says Niklas Flyborg, President 
and CEO, Cybercom. 
The digitalisation industry’s roadmap shows that 
deliberate and responsible  digitalisation can lead 
to radical reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. 
Along with calls for action to the Swedish Riksdag 
and Government, the roadmap presents the commit-
ments made by the digitalisation industry. 
“Properly applied, digitalisation can lead to system 
transformations that drastically reduce emissions. 
Now the politicians have to create the right condi-
tions that enable new business models and ensure 
that the power of digitalisation is utilised in the best 
possible way,” says Svante Axelsson, National Coordi-
nator for the Fossil Free Sweden Initiative.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 18 ARTICLES AND CASESASSIGNMENT  |  FINNISH POPULATION REGISTER CENTRE 
AR guides citizens to public services  
The Finnish public sector is becoming more accessible all the time. One example – 
equally new and innovative – is Service Locations, an app that guides citizens to all 
manner of public services. Users can access information about government agen-
cies, libraries, swim centres, preschools and much more. The app shows where the 
various services are located and uses AR (augmented reality) to make it easier to find 
them. When the user holds up their phone, a street view pops up and nearby ser -
vices are displayed in a layer on top. Augmented Reality in reality, so to speak. The 
app was developed by Cybercom for the Finnish Population Register Centre. A beta 
version is available for Android devices and version for iOS is in development. INNOVATION ZONE/ASSIGNMENT  |  MYESTEEME
AR app helps kids feel better
Leslie Alfredsson got the idea for her company MyEsteeme when she 
noticed that her six-year-old niece was terribly worried about her appear -
ance and wanted to wear makeup. 
MyEsteeme began to develop various toys and educational tools to 
strengthen children’s self-esteem. The idea is for the products to also be 
used in exercises to promote diversity and equal treatment, principles that 
are included in the Swedish national preschool curriculum, for example. 
The Cybercom Innovation Zone came into contact with MyEsteeme 
through collaboration with the MINC incubator in Malmö, Sweden. At that 
point, MyEsteeme was looking to expand its offering by becoming more 
digital. With Cybercom’s help, they launched their first AR-based mobile 
and edutainment app for schools in the autumn of 2018. The Cybercom 
team was made up largely of university students and several of them later 
went to work for Cybercom. The goal is for the new app to be the first of 
many tools that help kids and their parents play, learn and feel good 
together. 
ASSIGNMENT  |  FYRISBIOGRAFEN
The most innovative cinema in Europe
Audience numbers at the Fyrisbiografen cinema have stagnated at about 
two visits per person and year, even though the average Swede watches 
more than 70 films per year. A method inspired by Silicon Valley start-ups 
became Fyrisbiografen and Cybercom’s joint weapon against the “death 
of the cinema”. 
The project began with an evaluation of the activities that worked – and 
those that did not. The solutions that were ultimately implemented ranged 
from improving Fyrisbiografen’s digital purchasing flow to starting to sell 
nostalgic sweets.
“We could see how our audiences actually behave and find out what 
they like. As a result, we could easily design better solutions that elevated 
the entire cinema experience, from buying the ticket to taking your seat in 
the auditorium,” says Olle Agebro, chair of the Fyrisbiografen Association.
The mix of traditional and digital was a success – audience numbers have 
risen by more than 50 percent compared to the year before. Fyrisbiografen 
won the European Cinema Innovation Prize at the Venice Film  Festival.
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions   
The goal is aimed at promoting peaceful and inclusive societies and 
fairness for all. It also involves building efficient, accountable and 
inclusive institutions at all levels.  
Responsible Consumption and Production  
The goal is aimed at ensuring sustainable production  
and  consumption patterns.   
Good Health and Well-Being  
The goal is to ensure that everyone can live a healthy life  
and to  promote the well-being of people of all ages. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ARTICLES AND CASES 19INNOVATION ZONE/ASSIGNMENT  |  DELETE
Leading-edge technology for 
higher occupational safety 
Delete, a Nordic environmental services company, is determined to 
improve safety at its demolition sites in Finland. When Cybercom 
was engaged, it turned out that there were no turnkey solutions 
capable of effectively addressing Delete’s challenges. The objective 
of Cybercom’s assignment was to protect workers from the dan-
gers that heavy equipment can present. Cybercom developed a 
solution including presence sensors and UWB (ultra wideband) 
radio technology. The solution involves monitoring of heavy equip-
ment where the operator is warned when someone approaches. 
Virtual “red zones” show whether workers are in an area where 
they should not be. Cybercom did it all, from generating ideas to 
testing the solution and finding suitable manufacturers. Delete and 
Cybercom are continuing to work to complete the solution. The 
goal is to markedly improve safety without disrupting work and 
productivity. 
ASSIGNMENT  |  STRÖMSHOLMEN
IoT and gas springs for a more efficient auto industry 
Extracting metals and minerals from the earth and 
using them for manufacturing is one of the human 
activities that has the greatest impact on the climate. 
Nor is it free: a medium-sized manufacturing compa-
ny’s energy bill can be as much as SEK 1 million per 
month. 
The exciting news right now is that industry is on 
the brink of an efficiency revolution. Digitalisation and 
concepts like Industry 4.0 have huge potential, where 
it will be possible to improve the efficiency of the 
value chain end-to-end, from raw materials extraction 
to finished products, usage and recycling. 
Working smarter with what might seem to be 
 trivial elements can have major impact. To take one 
concrete example: the machines that mould vehicle 
chassis are dependent on “gas springs” to work. Gas 
springs are also critically important to the quality of 
the end product. The problem is that gas springs are 
often incorrectly used, which results in more mainte-nance, shorter product lifetime and scrapped parts. 
In a nutshell: waste of materials, energy and money. 
Cybercom and Strömsholmen, the world’s leading 
manufacturer of gas springs, have solutions for these 
challenges. Real-time information showing the condi-
tion of a gas spring makes it possible to take the right 
action at the right time. This increases the product 
lifetime and results in more efficient production with 
a lower energy requirement.
Connected products equipped with sensors, data 
communications in harsh environments and, natu-
rally, management of huge datasets processed to 
become useful and value-creating decision input,  
are all necessary for this to work.
The effects have knock-on effects too. Connecting 
gas springs used for almost half of global vehicle 
chassis production will create huge opportunities to 
improve the efficiency of the entire value chain. That 
is exactly what Strömsholmen is doing, in partnership 
with Cybercom.  
ASSIGNMENT  |  AURORA AI FINLAND
The public sector takes the AI lead 
In 2018, the Finnish government ordered a feasibility 
study of what might become the world’s most ambi-
tious AI system used in the public sector. 
Aurora, as the AI system is called, is based on 
 citizens and their real-life situations and needs. Aurora 
is meant to facilitate smooth and convenient service 
consisting of solutions from various providers – exactly 
the right service at the right time. The client, the Finn-
ish Ministry of Finance, and the project are aiming 
high for a single software or solution (that would  rapidly become obsolete), they developed an entire 
network of intelligent services. These are services that 
public and private providers, and perhaps even indi-
viduals, can create together. 
Advanced machine learning
Aurora is based on machine learning (specifically, rein-
forcement learning), where the network combines 
services from public and private providers that get the 
highest fit rates by users over time. The user groups 
are created based on anonymised personal data. 
“The more anonymous information we have at the 
group level, the greater the potential to offer relevant 
services at the individual level. As a result, we can 
bring the citizen and society closer together,” explains 
Antti Hahto at Cybercom Finland. Tested on real-life events 
The feasibility study was carried out based on three 
typical real-life events: a move to a new town to 
attend university, skills development to improve 
employability and support to children and parents 
when family relationships change. 
“By using information and AI, we can create new 
types of services that cross administrative lines. Focus 
is on the citizen’s needs and perceptions of smooth 
and convenient service, not the needs of an individual 
government agency,” says Minister of Local Govern-
ment and Public Reforms Anu Vehviläinen, who is 
responsible for the digitalisation of public services. 
The feasibility study will be completed and 
reported in spring 2019. If it proves successful, further 
development will follow. Something to look forward 
to, without a doubt!Decent Work and Economic Growth   
The goal is aimed at inclusive and sustainable economic growth and 
full and productive employment with decent working conditions for 
everyone. 
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure   
The goal is to build up a resilient infrastructure, 
promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation 
and foster innovation. 
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions  
The goal is aimed at promoting peaceful and 
inclusive societies and fairness for all. It also 
involves building efficient, accountable and 
inclusive institutions at all levels. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 20 ARTICLES AND CASESASSIGNMENT  |  SIGNPORT
Digital signatures are making Official 
Sweden more efficient  
Ink on paper – isn’t that a bit outmoded? The technology that makes digital 
signatures possible exists, and there is nothing in the law standing in the 
way. Nevertheless, countless agreements are signed by hand on paper with 
everything that entails in terms of the time and resources required for signa-
ture, distribution, transport and paper archives.
Cybercom’s new SignPort service has torn down the remaining barriers. 
A signed e-document cannot be altered without detection, which means 
documents can be stored and distributed digitally. Documents can be 
signed using various authentication methods (such as the Swedish Bank-ID 
system or single- use codes sent by text message), and it works for both 
external and internal processes. Naturally, Cybercom considered the users 
and what would be most convenient for them when SignPort was devel-
oped. Cybercom has resolved all the tricky issues related to security, privacy 
and compliance. SignPort is based on a solid cryptographic platform and 
has been reviewed by the Swedish Legal, Financial and Administrative 
 Services Agency to ensure that it complies with the technical frameworks 
recommended by the Swedish Agency for Digital Government.
SignPort was built to work for any organisation, and government 
 agencies in particular have much to gain by binning paper agreements. 
 Cybercom has already delivered SignPort to several of Sweden’s govern-
ment agencies, which means that millions of paper agreements have been 
replaced. And more are waiting in the wings. Now that’s what we call 
 efficiency improvement!ASSIGNMENT  |  S GROUP FINLAND
S Group contributes to a more sustainable Finland  
Finland will become more sustainable by 2050. The 
country’s “social commitment to sustainable develop-
ment” requires exactly what the name indicates – all 
of society’s involvement. This includes a number of 
 climate-related goals, including resource and energy 
efficiency.
A really big actor that has accepted the Finnish 
government’s call is the cooperative group S Group 
(S-ryhmä). S Group works in retail and is with nearly 
40,000 employees Finland’s largest private employer. Sales are on par with some of the largest companies 
of the Helsinki stock exchange.
S Group is investing in cloud solutions and one 
of many advantages is energy efficiency. Cybercom 
 provides cloud services through a frame agreement 
covering managed services, 24/7 support, advisory, 
project deliveries and cloud security. This makes the 
cloud platform more efficient and supports the  
S Group’s business development.
 
 Responsible Consumption and Production  
The goal is aimed at ensuring sustainable 
 production and consumption patterns. 
Climate Action   
The goal is to take immediate action to fight climate change and its 
consequences. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ARTICLES AND CASES 21We are Makers of Tomorrow
We are passionate about Cybercom’s mission: we are 
Makers of Tomorrow. No one here is afraid of the 
unknown. We are thrilled and energised by the pros-
pect of constant development. 
At Cybercom, we are the same and we are differ -
ent. Professionalism, the passion for innovation and 
our down-to-earth approach are what we have in 
common. We are also a diverse collection of personal-
ities and profiles. Of 1,290 people, 20 percent are 
women and 80 percent are men. The youngest of us 
is 18 and the oldest is 65. We come from 45 different countries and represent a wide range of areas of 
expertise. Anyone who is looking for expertise, 
regardless of whether that means in-depth industry 
knowledge or digital tools on the leading edge, will 
not have to look far. Cybercom has what it takes.
A better tomorrow 
We do not only put high demands on the solutions 
we create, but also on what our solutions should 
achieve. We do not work with technology for its own 
sake or for just any purpose. Our solutions should be innovative, scalable and secure. And they should con-
tribute to profitability and sustainability. 
Our priorities 
Attracting, developing and retaining creative and 
skilled employees are essential to Cybercom. Skills 
provision is the industry’s – and thus Cybercom’s – 
greatest challenge and opportunity. We make our 
 living by mining, melding and making use of knowl-
edge to create value for Cybercom’s clients. It all 
happens in a changeable – and largely unpredictable 
– environment. No one can precisely predict what 
technical skills are going to be needed. As a result, 
an agile mindset capable of handling change and 
learning new things is a key skill, in and of itself. 
This reality requires us to constantly accelerate our 
flexibility and development. Colleagues and culture 
are essential parts of Cybercom’s strategy for 2019–
2021, with focus on skills, innovation and long-term 
leadership. Diversity and inclusion are also vitally 
important to our employees and to Cybercom. 
Skills and innovation 
Cybercom is an arena of skills. Here at Cybercom, 
 people gain experience from different industries, 
 companies and organisations. And opportunities to 
work across the entire field of IT and develop in various 
roles. We are convinced that we learn the most in our 
assignments – after all, our work is immersed in digital-
isation. That is why Cybercom’s breadth and develop-
ment potential are some of the best we have to offer.Makers, because we make digital happen. We believe in 
 talking less and doing more. We are the client’s partner in 
a changing world, where we take on business challenges 
with digital tools. We understand that innovative and sus-
tainable solutions are as much about technology as what 
the technology can actually do. 
Tomorrow, because we want to create a better tomorrow. 
Digital development and sustainable development should 
 always be synonymous. We learn from experience, benefit 
from our collective capabilities and are creative in how we 
apply technology. That is how we are creating solutions for 
a sustainable digital future.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 22 EMPLOYEESEach employee ultimately owns their development. 
Cybercom shows the way by creating clear develop-
ment paths and offering a carefully chosen range of 
skills-enhancing activities in our specialist areas.
In addition, neither Cybercom’s employees nor its 
clients settle for baby steps or a little at a time. That is 
why Cybercom’s new skills plan is also about increas-
ing our combined competence and innovative power 
– and that of individuals. The main elements of the 
plan are: 
•  Defining the implications of Cybercom’s orientation 
towards specialisation for the individual employee 
and their development 
• Clarifying opportunities for development 
• Integrating innovation in skills development  
How is innovation integrated into skills 
development?
Innovation Zone is Cybercom’s hub for development 
and innovation. This is where employees, clients and 
other partners can test ideas, develop prototypes and 
run pilot products in a highly creative environment. 
We put organisations, teams and skills together 
cross-functionally in order to achieve as much as pos-
sible. The method can be best described as empirical 
innovation. 
Started in 2016, Innovation Zone has since evolved 
from a concept for skills development for employees between assignments in only a few offices and is 
now found in all Cybercom offices. Innovation Zone is 
where we explore new areas of technology internally 
and in partnership with clients, and has also become 
a key component of the onboarding process. In 2019 
and forward, we will be devoting vigorous effort to 
continuing to spread the method and the culture of 
innovation to more organisations, clients, employees, 
managers and administrative functions. Because the 
only thing we know for sure about the future is that 
we must all never stop learning so that we can take 
full advantage of novel ideas and new technology. 
Long-term leadership 
Courageous and secure leaders focused on longevity 
and sustainability will take Cybercom into the future. 
With that in mind, we will be developing a corporate 
leadership development and collective intelligence 
programme in 2019. 
We believe strongly in a cross-functional approach 
and are always seeking new ways to collaborate. 
Being a leader at Cybercom involves boosting 
employees, promoting collaboration and diversity 
and facilitating business that creates value. When it 
comes to employee development, the emphasis is on 
strengthening their self-leadership and commercial 
focus. Cybercom’s leadership structure is based on 
leaders of small teams in the same skills area, as 
opposed to traditional consulting managers and 
larger teams. A Team Lead devotes about 20 percent 
of their time to leadership and works as a consultant 
the rest of the time.
Diversity makes Cybercom stronger 
Cybercom’s focus on diversity and inclusion is based 
on three factors. First, we do not wish to reject or for 
that matter reward anyone on erroneous grounds – 
discrimination is simply not permitted. Read about 
the Cybercom Code of Conduct on page 29. Second, 
we know that a wide range of perspectives strength-
ens our creative and problem-solving  capacity and 
makes us better partners to our clients. Third, there is 
a skills shortage in our industry and we devote con-
siderable energy to finding the right people for the company. We need every channel available and our 
search field is wide, both within and outside Europe. 
Cybercom has made several changes to make it 
easier to hire employees from other countries. For 
example, we now manage the process of applying for 
work permits for foreign employees on their behalf, 
and we offer language instruction and cultural orien-
tation classes. There has been a steep increase in the 
percentage of foreign employees in recent years. 
Cybercom is also participating in several initiatives 
to help people who are new to Sweden find jobs in 
their skills area. For example, in a collaborative pro-
gramme with the Public Employment Service and the 
Chamber of Commerce of East Sweden, we are offer -
ing work experience placements to recent arrivals to 
Sweden. The goal is to offer participants jobs or put 
them together with partners or recruitment firms that 
can match people to jobs in their networks. 
Equal opportunity on the agenda 
More equal gender distribution is one of the compa-
ny's general objectives: Cybercom will be 30 percent 
women by the end of 2020. The goal is based on the 
70/30 ratio of new graduates in technical education in 
the countries where Cybercom operates. Cybercom 
has hit the target at the board and management level 
– the board consists of four women and four men, 
while there are 35 (32) women and 86 (89) men in 
senior management. We have a little way to go overall 
– at the end of the year, the gender distribution ratio 
between men and women was 80/20. 
Cybercom is fully aware that equal gender distri-
bution does not guarantee equal opportunity. Pre-
cisely for that reason, it is vital to continuously 
develop Cybercom’s culture and work environment, 
where every individual’s perspective and skills come 
to the fore and are utilised. Starting in 2019, Cyber -
com will use a diversity and inclusion index to keep 
track of the company’s progress. Read more about 
Cybercom employees on pages 30–31.
Emilio Cuberos  
FULL-STACK SYSTEM DEVELOPER, ÖSTERSUND 
I am working on an assignment for a 
state agency. It is an honour, since I am 
helping provide services for all citizens. 
Although there are a lot of rules and 
restrictions, I try to contribute with new 
ideas and help the client move forward. 
They seem to land well, because I am 
seeing more and more of my ideas being 
implemented.Charlene Sequeira  
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, STOCKHOLM 
I grew up in Goa, India and as an engineer, 
I was part of a male-dominated environ-
ment. My parents taught me to dare to 
dream and work to achieve. This mindset 
led me to Stockholm, KTH and Cybercom. 
I remain a Maker because of my assignments 
and colleagues. Cybercom is my second 
home, and my colleagues are my friends!
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EMPLOYEES 23Malin Browall 
INTERACTION DESIGNER, MALMÖ 
Working at Cybercom has taught me a lot. Learning through 
experience when being allowed to fail, and trying new things 
without pressure, is very rewarding. Sometimes great things 
come from failure – or at least new ideas! Thom Persson
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER, LINKÖPING
For me, being a Maker is about creating something 
that produces tremendous value for others, under 
safe prerequisites. Like when I improved the flow in 
medical image processing. The service makes it easy 
for hospitals to access the images without needing a 
huge installed application – an ordinary tablet works.
Lef Filippakis
FULL-STACK DATA SCIENTIST, GOTHENBURG 
I have a strong passion for music. Oftentimes complete 
songs form in my head, as if a band was playing there. But 
when I record them to my computer, they never sound as 
I imagined them. My dream project would be an AI that is 
able to decipher the music played in a person’s imagination 
and transmit it in digital form for everyone to hear.Michał Dwornicki
EXPERT SOFTWARE ENGINEER, ŁÓDZ
The recipe for a Maker is (in theory) simple: add 
 hunger for knowledge, mix with openness to new crazy 
solutions and finish off with a pinch of luck! I have 
truly been fortunate in finding people like me who 
want to support sustainable business development. 
My colleagues make my work meaningful and help me 
develop every day! 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 24 EMPLOYEESAntti Hahto 
HEAD OF DATA SCIENCE, HELSINKI  
My job has given me a front row seat in Finland’s 
transformation to the post-information age. It is 
eye-opening to see that government officials are 
 genuinely interested in making society and people’s 
lives better. I am happy that Cybercom and I can help 
make that happen.
Heleen de Goey
SERVICE DESIGNER, GOTHENBURG 
My passion is creating solutions that help improve 
human well-being and that respect the natural limits 
of our planet. In addition to using service design as a 
tool to develop sustainable solutions, I love to inspire 
others about the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals 
through lectures and workshops.Rolf “Rolle” Koski 
CHIEF TECHNICAL OFFICER, TAMPERE 
A Maker enables others, shares knowledge and helps 
people grow. It is also about acting as an advisor and 
helping others, clients for example, invent their own 
answers. And all the while, being open to the fact 
that the same advice may not be the best answer 
for everyone.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EMPLOYEES 25CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 26 EMPLOYEESWhat gets measured gets done, as the saying 
goes. And that is how we work at Cybercom. We 
have goals and targets for both financial perfor -
mance and sustainability that keep us on the 
right track. The thing is, our clients, owners and 
employees do not care only what Cybercom 
does, but also how we do it. 
We deliver the right results, the right way. 0
0
00
S
0000
O 01
1111
11
1
0
0P01
SMA ING
G ER
0K
R
27 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Cybercom’s material sustainability aspects
Stakeholders and engagement 
Cybercom’s key stakeholders are employees (and the union 
organisations that represent them), clients, owners and 
 suppliers. The table below presents the issues that are usually 
the  subject of Cybercom’s dialogue with each group of  stakeholders, communication and dialogue methods used 
and how the dialogue affects Cybercom’s operations.Materiality analysis
The materiality analysis begun in late 2017 was completed 
during the year. The study was performed in two stages:  
•  Identification of aspects that experts and employees who 
are particularly involved in or affected by Cybercom’s sus-
tainability work perceive as having low to high external 
impact. 
•  Identification of aspects that other stakeholders (employ-
ees and clients) perceive as having low to high impact on 
their assessments and decisions related to Cybercom’s 
operations.Results
The new materiality analysis essentially confirmed earlier 
assessments as regards Cybercom’s most important sustain-
ability aspects. The analysis clearly shows that delivery of 
sustainable products and services is the single-most import-
ant sustainability aspect for Cybercom. It is also one of the 
sustainability aspects that was given higher priority in this 
materiality analysis than in previous analyses. It is through 
delivering sustainable solutions to its clients that Cybercom 
makes a substantive contribution to more sustainable 
 development of business and society. The right to equal 
treatment is another aspect that stakeholders (employees  
in particular) considered more important in this year’s 
 materiality analysis than in the past.The materiality analysis strengthens the understanding 
that aspects related to the offering, clients and employ-
ees are Cybercom’s top priorities. As regards employees, the 
study illustrates the importance of culture, leadership and 
behaviour. The most highly prioritised aspects in this dimen-
sion are equal rights, equal treatment and equal opportu-
nity, along with skills development. 
In addition to aforementioned aspects, Cybercom needs 
to address a number of aspects related to responsibility and 
compliance. A summary of Cybercom’s assessment of mate-
rial sustainability aspects and how the company is managing 
them follows. A detailed list of Cybercom’s reported mate-
rial sustainability aspects is provided in the GR index on 
pages 38–39. 
Stakeholder group Topics Communication & engagement Outcome 
Clients • Offering
• Quality 
• Delivery performance
• Privacy and security • Business ethics
• Working conditions
• Climate performance
• Procurement procedures•  Ongoing engagement via Cybercom’s  
key account managers and other sales  
representatives and consultants
• Client surveys
• Interviews• Development of offerings and solutions
• Sales training
•  Quality, environment and information  security 
 management systems 
Employees • Skills development
• Work environment
• Corporate culture
• Diversity and equal opportunity• Employee surveys
• Interviews• Training
• Leadership conferences
•  Employee events and vision and values meetings
Investors/share-
holders• Profitability and growth 
• Responsible business
• Business ethics• Annual general meeting
• Board work
• Investor meetings
• Interviews •  Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, sustainability 
report
Suppliers • Suppliers’ environmental work • Suppliers’ Code of Conduct
• Procurement
• Negotiations• Suppliers’ Code of ConductResults of the materiality analysis
1 2 3 4 545
3
2
1Materiality for stakeholders
LOWHIGH
External impact HIGH LOWFinancial stabilitySustainable products 
and services
Information security
Responsible purchasingHuman rightsSmart use of resourcesEqual treatment
Skills development
Sound corporate cultureLegal and appropriate conduct
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 28 MATERIALITY ANALYSISGovernance
Corporate governance 
The general meeting is the company’s supreme govern-
ing body. It is at the general meeting that shareholders are 
able to exert their influence. The board is responsible for the 
Group’s organisation and governance under the Swedish 
Companies Act. Established procedure dictates divisions of 
responsibility between the board and CEO.
Board of directors
The board addressed matters during the year such as strat-
egy, the business plan and budget, the company’s financ-
ing and industry trends. The board of directors monitors the 
work of management through monthly reports on matters 
including financial performance, key data and progress in 
prioritised activities. This also includes following up sustain-
ability work.
Sustainability organisation 
The executive leadership team is responsible for strategic 
and operational control of the company’s sustainability  
work and for monitoring the results. The work is led and 
coordinated by the company’s Head of Sustainability and 
Communications. Cybercom has a flexible sustainability 
organisation in which representatives of operations and the 
business are included. From the operational side, the CFO 
and representatives of the Legal, Environmental, Quality and 
HR departments. From the business side, the organisation 
includes Cybercom’s executive management and represen-
tatives of advisory services and sales organisations and the  
 Innovation Zone. Cybercom’s marketing forum and the 
company’s recruiters also contribute to Cybercom’s sustain-
ability initiatives. Finally, Sustainability Ambassadors from 
various parts of the organisation support the work of the 
Head of Sustainability and Communications. During 2018, 
new Sustainability Ambassadors were selected, who contin-
ued the work with sustainable leadership, sustainable busi-
ness, training and communications. 
Code of Conduct
The company’s Code of Conduct constitutes Cybercom’s 
main sustainability policy. The Code of Conduct is based on 
the UN Global Compact and its principles on human rights, 
labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. It was 
written in 2004 and was most recently updated in 2016. 
The Code of Conduct applies to all employees and sets stan-
dards for employee professionalism and integrity to ensure 
that each and every one of us acts legally and appropriately 
in relation to the company’s stakeholders. Cybercom also has a Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. The 
 Suppliers’ Code of Conduct covers the same areas as Cyber -
com’s internal Code of Conduct, except for financial report-
ing and other external communication. Cybercom’s internal 
Code of Conduct and the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct are 
available on cybercom.com.
The Code of Conduct covers the following areas, in brief: 
Legal and regulatory compliance All Cybercom employ-
ees are responsible for acting in compliance with laws and 
regulations applicable to Cybercom’s operations and deliver -
ies. When necessary, legal advice should be sought. Cyber -
com applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. 
Cybercom reports and presents corporate information in 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Human rights Cybercom respects human rights as laid 
down in the UN Universal General Declaration of Human 
Rights. Everyone must show respect for individuals and their 
privacy and dignity. Cybercom will not in any way contribute 
to violations of human rights. 
Labour rights and working conditions. Cybercom sup-
ports freedom of association and the right to collective 
 bargaining. Cybercom does not permit child labour. 
Cybercom does not tolerate any form of discrimination. 
All employees have equal rights and must never be sub-
jected to unjust treatment due to gender, sexual orientation, 
ethnic origin, religion, beliefs, political affiliation or disabil-
ity. All employees must show respect for each other and for 
Cybercom’s business partners and take personal responsibil-
ity for combating discrimination. 
Cybercom offers pay that complies with national mini-
mum wage legislation. All employment contracts must be 
correctly drawn up. Cybercom also ensures that working 
hours are compliant with local legislation. 
All employees must have time for rest and relaxation. 
Cybercom shall not in any way utilise forced labour and will 
always ensure that the working relationship between Cyber -
com and the employee is at the employee’s own free will. 
Health and safety Cybercom shall provide a healthy and 
safe workplace in compliance with internationally acknowl-
edged standards. Cybercom works proactively to prevent 
accidents and work-related illnesses. All employees are 
offered health and safety training as required. 
Environment Cybercom shall minimise the company’s 
 negative environmental impact. Cybercom respects the 
precautionary principle and seeks to actively contribute to 
reducing negative environmental impact through respon-sible measures and technological advancement. Cybercom 
acts in compliance with laws and internationally recognised 
directives. 
Corruption and other prohibited business practices 
Cybercom complies with the Swedish Anti-Corruption Insti-
tute’s Code of Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits in  Business, 
and works actively to combat corruption and unethical 
 practices. Employees must not give or receive gifts, benefits 
or bribes that constitute a breach of this code. Cybercom is 
opposed to any form of money laundering and has taken 
the relevant measures to prevent financial transactions that 
are of criminal intent. Cybercom is politically  independent 
and does not sponsor political organisations.
Financial information and other external communi-
cation Cybercom shall be transparent and provide relevant 
information when so required. This means that the company 
shall always provide fair and accurate information. Cyber -
com’s goal is for communication to contribute to a stron-
ger brand. 
The company’s assets and confidential information. All 
business decisions shall be made with the good of the com-
pany in mind. Employees must be professional in their rela-
tionship with Cybercom and must not pursue competitive 
activities. Client trust is of vital importance to Cybercom. All 
employees will treat client information with complete confi-
dentiality. Information about Cybercom’s clients may only be 
used in the implementation of the project in question. This 
duty of confidentiality remains in force even after the project 
has been completed. There is a clear policy for handling con-
fidential information. 
Client’s and business partner’s information Accord-
ing to Cybercom’s security policy, all employees must sign 
a non-disclosure agreement. There are clear rules for the 
handling of, and access to, material belonging to Cybercom. 
Professionalism. Freedom with accountability and focus 
on the individual are important contributory factors in 
Cybercom being able to attract highly skilled staff. Cybercom 
seeks to offer all employees the opportunity for personal 
and professional development. A workplace that is open, 
creative and flexible sets the course for being able to offer 
clients professional and attractive products and services. To 
sum up, Cybercom shall always  conduct itself ethically in its 
dealings with all its stakeholders. Cybercom shall be charac-
terised by professionalism and integrity.Cybercom’s Sustainability Ambassadors: John Wibrand, Darren Williams, Otto Kauhanen, Coleb Mujurizi, Kristina Cato, Christian Brandon, Jessi Salenius, Anders Ohlsson and Tomasz Wester.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 29Policies and management 
Management of employee-related matters at Cybercom is 
based on several policies and procedures. The most import-
ant of these include our Code of Conduct, the health and 
safety policy and procedures, the diversity policy, the equal 
opportunity plan and a procedure for dealing with inci-
dences of discrimination.
The purpose and objectives of HR work are the same 
in all material respects throughout Cybercom, although 
approaches may differ. Cybercom is using company-wide 
system support and other means to plan for increased col-
laboration and efficiency within the Group.
Cybercom’s new strategy and plan for colleagues and 
culture includes data-driven HR initiatives as a focus area. 
In brief, this involves acquiring new tools and working in a 
data-driven approach to streamline parts of HR work and 
achieve better results. Above all, Cybercom wants to further 
develop the search and recruitment processes and employee 
measurements in order to attract and retain the right skills.
Employee rights 
Cybercom respects human rights. Respect for individuals 
and their privacy and dignity is fundamental to all relation-
ships, both within Cybercom and with clients, partners and 
other external stakeholders. Naturally, Cybercom has partic-
ular responsibility for its own employees. All of Cybercom’s 
sustainability-related policies and positions are stated in the 
company's Code of Conduct.
Monitoring of employee rights was strengthened during 
the year by including diversity and inclusion in Cybercom’s 
new employee surveys and pulse measurements. The new 
tools make it possible to track a diversity and inclusion index 
in real-time. The plan is also to implement a new whistle-blower chan-
nel for anonymous reporting of violations of the Cybercom 
Code of Conduct. Reports will be dealt with by an external 
party, and implementation will take place in early 2019. 
Terms of employment and benefits  
Aimed at attracting the right employees, Cybercom is 
increasingly focusing on flexible and individualised terms 
of employment and benefits. Employees of Cybercom are 
offered competitive compensation and generous, rele-
vant benefits, which are adjusted according to employee 
 feedback. 
The compensation package includes insurance benefits. 
All employees are covered by insurance policies, the precise 
arrangements of which vary among the different markets. 
Employees in Sweden and Finland are covered by collective 
agreements that include benefits related to pensions and 
parental leave supplement, for example.
Cybercom offers attractive and centrally located offices, 
which encourages the use of public transport. Cybercom’s 
offices must be inviting meeting places for creativity and 
innovation. Our large cafés at all Cybercom offices, featur -
ing table tennis or other team activities, is a small but mean-
ingful example.  
Employee reviews of Cybercom 
Cybercom will be trying out “pulse measurements” as a way 
of getting ongoing feedback from employees, understand-
ing how they see their situations at Cybercom and being 
able to quickly act on the results. Cybercom’s agile approach 
and related tools give employees and managers access to 
their own team’s performance in real-time. The idea is to create transparency, build commitment and give everyone 
the right  conditions to improve the work environment. 
An initial, widespread measurement was taken in late 
2018 to obtain reference values to be used in future pulse 
measurements. The measurements are intended to replace 
People’s Voice, the major employee survey conducted in the 
past. 
The employees also participated in the survey that was 
the basis for the 2018 materiality analysis. Read more on 
page 28. 
Health and safety 
Cybercom is acting to achieve a good work environment 
and employee health and well-being by means including 
matching the right person to the right assignment, pro-
viding opportunities for variation and development on the 
job and allocating tasks to minimise stress. Cybercom also 
strives to accommodate preferences for flexible working 
hours. In general, it is becoming more important for Cyber -
com to individualise the support offered to employees, espe-
cially as we, in today’s society in general, are becoming over -
loaded with more and more information and impressions. 
The aim is to make life easier on the job and encourage a 
good life/work balance. 
Employees work in an office setting of our own or on 
 client premises. Cybercom's premises offer various types 
of workstations for flexibility and comfort, and we encour -
age employees to get moving – by playing table tennis at the 
office, for instance. Cybercom’s greatest health and safety 
risks are repetitive strain injuries and stress-related disorders. 
The absenteeism rate at Cybercom was 3.0 (2.8) percent 
during the year. There were no reported workplace accidents.
399
NEW HIRES 
IN 201820%
PERCENTAGE WOMEN50%
PERCENTAGE OF  
WOMEN DIRECTORSEmployees 
LEADERSHIP INDEX 
86%  
EMPLOYEES ARE SATISFIED/VERY  
SATISFIED WITH THEIR  
IMMEDIATE MANAGERS
 
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
90% 
EMPLOYEES ARE SATISFIED/VERY  
SATISFIED WITH CYBERCOM’S EFFORTS
 
COMMITMENT
81%
EMPLOYEES ARE SATISFIED/VERY  
SATISFIED WITH THEIR JOBSAndreas Carlberg, who is on parental leave, with his son.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 30 EMPLOYEES2018 2017 2016
Change in workforce Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total
New hires 399     425     280
<30 34 140 174 44 141 185 34 119 153
30–50  51 155 206 45 177 222 24 95 119
>50 5 14 19 7  11  18 1  7  8
Percentage of new hires 
among all employees 31% 35% 23%
Employees who have left 
Cybercom  364 372 294
<30 25 77 102 25 85 110 12 50 62
30–50  45 187 232 28 204 232 27 166 193
>50 9 21 30 8 22 30 8 31 39
Percentage of employees 
who have left among all 
employees 29% 30% 24%2018 2017 2016
Age and gender 
 distribution Number Female, % Number Female, % Number Female, %
Board of directors 8 50 9  33 9 33
<30 0 0 0 0 0 0
30–50  5 40 6 17 7 29
>50 3 67 3  67 2 50
Managers 121 30 121 26 115 26
<30 6 17 3 33 3 33
30–50  96 26 91 19 89 22
>50 19 47 27  52 23 39
Other employees 1,169 19 1,141 19 1,088 17
<30 374 20 338 22 309 18
30–50  657 19 664 19 642 16
>50 138 21 139  21 137 20
2018 2017 2016
Employed by 
Cybercom Number Female, % Number Female, % Number Female, %
Under indefinite 
contract 1,285 20 1,251  20 1,185 17
Of which full-time 1,249 20 1,231  20 1,154 17
Of which part-time 36 25 20  40 31 29
Number of tempo-
rary employees 5 20 11 73 18 33
Total 1,290 20 1,262 19 1,203 18
2018 2017 2016
Employees by 
country Number Female, % Number Female, % Number Female, %
Sweden 785 22 775 22 748 20
Finland 179 15 171 12 164 12
Poland 289 21 277 21 253 18
India 24 17 21 14 23 13
Singapore – – – – 2 50
Denmark 13 15 18 39 13 8
Total 1,290 20 1,262 19 1,203 18
Absenteeism, % 2018 2017 2016
Sweden 2.9 2.9 3.4
Finland 3.0 2.4 3.0
Poland 3.1 2.5 2.0
India 3.3 – 0
Singapore – – 0.4
Denmark 1.5 3.2 1.9
Average 3.0 2.8 3.0
Training hours per 
employee 2018 2017 2016
Women 32 18 13
Men 38 19 14
All employees 37 19 14
Collective bargaining 
agreements 2018 2017 2016
(Total employees covered  
by collective bargaining 
agreements, %) 74 76 77Development reviews 2018 2017 2016
(Employees given 
 development reviews, %) 
Women 95 94 89
Men 94 90 84
All employees 95 91 85“The challenges of tomorrow demand new solu-
tions. That is why willingness and capacity to keep 
learning anew are key skills for a Maker. Cybercom 
is continuing to develop tools, academies and our 
innovation concept to ensure that our employees 
are given optimal opportunities to make the devel-
opment journey that both we and they expect 
during their time with us.”
Linda Westlund, Head of HR
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EMPLOYEES 31Clients
Legal and appropriate conduct 
High ethics must characterise every aspect of Cybercom’s 
business and operations. Cybercom’s Code of Conduct 
 governs how employees should act, and business ethics 
are a standing item on the executive team’s agenda.
All employees complete web-based training sessions 
aimed at preventing corruption. The training is based on our 
Code of Conduct and contains various possible dilemmas 
on which employees must take a position. 
Cybercom also instituted a new whistle-blowing 
system to ensure high ethical standards in our work with 
clients. The system is expected to be deployed group-wide 
in early 2019. 
No cases of corrupt conduct or discrimination were 
reported in 2018.
Quality
For Cybercom, quality is a matter of client perception. 
Accordingly, our task is to consistently meet the client’s 
needs and meet or exceed expectations. We succeed at this 
by working closely with clients, monitoring technological 
progress and continuously developing employee skills.  
Cybercom’s quality management system is certified 
under ISO 9001 and Cybercom’s policy and quality targets 
help to steer efforts in the right direction. In order to assure 
quality, the majority of our work is process-oriented. The 
enterprise management system contains necessary docu-mentation in the form of process and role descriptions, 
as well as instructions and templates. Training is a key 
 component of quality management. 
We set targets and monitor a number of quality indica-
tors – client satisfaction first and foremost among them. 
Our overall objective has been to continuously increase the 
CSI (Client Satisfaction Index) and to always outperform the 
industry average. Client satisfaction has been included as a 
strategic target area in the strategy for 2019–2021. A pre-
cise target will be formulated in 2019. There is a separate 
policy, strategy and process run by sales managers for qual-
ity and client satisfaction. Read more about Cybercom’s 
 targets on page 14. 
Information security and data protection
Work related to information security and data protection 
at Cybercom involves ensuring the confidentiality, accuracy 
and accessibility of all information assets. Information man-
agement must always be carried out with respect for and 
protection of personal privacy.
Cybercom works systematically with information security 
based on the company’s information security and data pro-
tection policy. The work is aimed at protecting the company 
against intentional and unintentional threats and comply-
ing with applicable laws, regulations and the requirements 
and expectations of employees and clients. This work is con-
ducted both internally and on assignment for clients. Risk analysis is a vital aspect of the work and is performed on 
an ongoing basis. Defining the right level of security involves 
establishing acceptable risk exposure, performing an analy-
sis and describing on that basis the organisational and tech-
nical security measures required. 
Initiatives during the year 
Due to the implementation of GDPR, Cybercom had a  
strong focus on information security and, above all, data 
protection. Cybercom took several different measures. One 
of the focus areas was to make all employees aware of the 
new statutes and what they involve, along with integrating 
security measures directly in the company’s operational 
 processes.  
A new security organisation was established that focused 
on organisational measures such as updating policies and 
instructions, as well as assuring Cybercom’s capacity to act 
swiftly if an incident were to occur. We also took several 
technical measures to raise the level of protection, such as 
new and modern firewalls and a new system for user and 
access management. 
Cybercom had no incidents of loss of client data in 2018.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 32 CLIENTSInternal environmental work
Carbon emissions1)  2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Carbon emissions (metric tons)  204 277 182 343 640
Carbon emissions in relation to sales 
(metric tons/SEKm) 0.12 0.19 0.13 0.27 0.51
1)   Refers to Cybercom’s business travel by air. The data were provided by the travel agents Cybercom uses in each country.  Electricity consumption 2018 2017 2016
Electricity consumption (MWh)1) 2,195 2,037 2,356
Electricity consumption in relation to 
sales (MWh/SEKm) 1.3 1.4 1.7
1) Refers to Cybercom’s offices and own data centres. Policy and management 
Environmental aspects are included in Cybercom's Code of 
Conduct. Cybercom’s negative environmental impact must 
be reduced, the operations should act according to the pre-
cautionary principle and contribute through technological 
progress. As a complement to the Code of Conduct, Cyber -
com has an environmental policy oriented towards long-
term sustainable business. 
Cybercom has an environmental management system. 
The Swedish part of the system is certified under ISO 14001. 
The company’s environmental policy, environmental tar -
gets and action plans manage and track the environmen-
tal efforts. 
Each office adjusts the general environmental  targets 
and action plans to their specific circumstances. 
Internally, Cybercom has made good progress in the 
environmental area. Externally Cybercom helps clients to 
implement solutions to reduce negative environmental 
impact and increase positive impact. Read about Cybercom’s work within the framework of Fossil Free Sweden on 
page 18. 
Activities 
As a service company, Cybercom is primarily committed to 
reducing the environmental impact of business travel and 
commuting to and from work. The various IT solutions that 
employees extensively use for communication with clients 
and internally help with these initiatives. This has not only 
reduced travel, it has helped streamline collaboration. 
Employees and clients are informed about how Cyber -
com’s offices can be reached by public transport. All offices 
have showers and dressing rooms to make it easier to run or 
cycle to work. 
Targets and outcomes 
Cybercom is careful with purchasing, and demands good 
waste management from landlords. Negative impact must 
be reduced, and Cybercom has identified business travel as the most important key figure that the company can most 
influence. Travel is measured, managed and  monitored.
Cybercom has made progress in the environmental area 
over time, particularly as regards travel. Business travel has 
been reduced and more journeys are made by train, as 
opposed to flying. Cybercom has almost no company cars. 
Cybercom encountered problems measuring and fol-
lowing up business travel in 2018 when the travel provider 
switched reservations systems. As a result, Cybercom had to 
fill in the gap with manual follow-up of expense reports and 
is now carrying out a procurement to contract a new travel 
provider and gain better opportunities for measurement and 
monitoring. 
Emissions are still lower than when measurements began 
and, overall, Cybercom believes the environmental perfor -
mance of the business is at an acceptable level.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL WORK 33Risks and risk management 
Cybercom is exposed to a number of risks that could affect the Group’s business, earnings  
and financial position. Cybercom regularly performs risk assessments that include identification 
of the risks that affect the Group and takes action to manage these risks. 
Market and operational risks Description Action
Skills provision Cybercom’s business is dependent upon its capacity to attract 
and recruit skilled employees and upon its employees maintain-
ing their skills, continuing to develop and staying motivated. 
Shortages of labour occur from time to time and the company 
may have difficulty recruiting employees. High employee turn-
over or loss of key people could therefore have negative impact 
on the company.Cybercom works continuously with environmental and working con-
ditions, leadership and skills development to ensure that the company 
is an attractive employer. Innovation Zones are found at all of the com-
pany’s offices to provide for skills transfer and to explore new technol-
ogy. Cybercom works with brand-building activities and recruitment 
through, for example, participating in conferences, seminars and 
courses. The company invites university students to write degree papers 
within Cybercom’s operations. Skills provision to the Nordic markets is 
augmented with capacity from the centres of excellence in Cybercom’s 
Polish and Indian operations. The company recruits globally.
Economic conditions The Nordic market for IT and consultant services is affected by 
the general economy. Deterioration of the general business cli-
mate could therefore affect demand for the company's services.Cybercom’s core business is in communications services and digitalisa-
tion, which have affect in both economic upturns and downturns 
through efficiency improvements or competitive advantages. The 
company has developed areas of expertise where market demand  
is expected to remain strong for decades. In addition, the company 
further develops skills in new areas on an ongoing basis and monitors 
national and global market trends.
Client concentration Cybercom’s ten largest clients account for 45 percent of the 
company’s sales and the largest client accounts for 19 percent 
of sales. Cybercom aims to establish long-term relationships 
with its clients, several of which have been clients for many 
years. Cybercom often has many different, mutually independent projects in 
progress for its larger clients. The company strives to maintain a good 
balance among clients from different industries and geographies to 
mitigate risk exposure. Cybercom’s target is for the ten largest clients 
to account for 50 percent of sales while no individual client accounts 
for more than 15 percent of the company's revenues.
Capacity utilisation risk Cybercom's revenues are highly dependent upon the number 
of consultant hours sold. Reduced demand for consultant hours 
affects capacity utilisation and may be caused by any number of 
factors, including economic downturns and/or lacking the right 
consultant skills. Moreover, there is risk that clients may in some 
cases discontinue projects at short notice, which in turn could 
prevent Cybercom from immediately occupying the consultants 
involved in other assignments.Cybercom is developing its business and deepening expertise in areas 
where demand is growing and is expected to continue growing for 
many years ahead. The company's services cover the entire project life 
cycle and consultants are equipped to successfully take on various 
roles. Employees are continuously further developed. The office-based 
Innovation Zones are helping ensure that the company has knowledge 
and expertise in the latest technologies. The company also works with 
a large number of sub-consultants to ensure flexible capacity in 
response to economic fluctuations and client-specific variations.
Price level and client commitments The level of prices charged to clients are a key component of the 
company’s earnings. When prices is negotiated with the client on 
an ongoing basis, earnings are affected immediately if market 
prices fall. For that portion of sales generated by clients with 
which the company has made general agreements, Cybercom 
is not affected by changes in the price level unless the general 
agreement is renegotiated. Fixed price assignments and other 
commitments to clients, where Cybercom promises to provide a 
solution or service at a price agreed in advance constitute another 
type of price risk. The company thus bears the risk that the cost of 
delivering the assignment might have been incorrectly estimated.Cybercom's strategy calls for the company to sell proactively and offer 
more advisory services by engaging in dialogue with multiple stake-
holders on the client side (operations, purchasing and IT) and moving 
higher up the value chain. The company continuously further develops 
its procedures for assessing and controlling risks in client assignments.
Ethical risks Examples of ethical risks include employee failure to comply with 
national regulations, Cybercom’s Code of Conduct or ethical 
guidelines, or employee involvement in corruption, bribery or 
other irregularities. Such actions could damage the brand or 
lead to legal sanctions and fines.All Cybercom employees are required to sign the company’s Code of 
Conduct and Business Ethics immediately upon employment. This is 
also mandatory for the company’s sub-consultants. Preventive actions 
are taken at all levels of the company by means of communication, 
training and dilemma exercises.
Health and safety risks Cybercom’s greatest health and safety risks are repetitive strain 
injuries and stress-related disorders.The company’s premises are designed to encourage physical move-
ment and variation in working posture. Aimed at minimising stress, 
Cybercom strives to maintain an open, communicative, reassuring and 
transparent culture. The company’s employees are provided occupa-
tional health services according to their individual needs, as well as 
tools and equipment to prevent repetitive strain injuries, for example.
Human rights Cybercom operates in certain countries where there is greater 
risk connected to discrimination based on gender, social or 
 religious identity, age or sexual orientation.Cybercom’s management works continuously to ensure that all opera-
tions comply with the company's Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. 
Everyone must show respect for the privacy and dignity of the individual.
Bank and client agreements There are clauses in the company’s loan agreements as well as 
certain client agreements that give the other party the option 
to terminate the agreement if major changes to the ownership 
structure occur. If an agreement is terminated, it could have 
 negative impact on the company.Cybercom’s financial structure is good and the company strives to 
maintain a stable financial base that provides favourable conditions 
for dialogue with banks. The company has many different client 
agreements, assignments and numerous large clients.
Financial risks Cybercom is exposed to several financial risks, such as liquidity 
risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and credit risks.These risks are described in Cybercom’s annual report for 2018.
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 34 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCEConsolidated balance sheet 
SEKk 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017
Assets
Noncurrent assets
Goodwill 335,040 332,589
Other intangible assets 45,994 69,099
Property, plant and equipment 33,557 30,973
Financial assets 856 1,232
Deferred tax assets 4,811 4,579
Total noncurrent assets 420,258 438,473
Current assets
Trade receivables 481,310 437,287
Tax assets 221 551
Other receivables 25,973 26,012
Prepaid expenses 18,731 14,720
Cash and cash equivalents 156,444 61,319
Total current assets 682,679 539,889
Total assets 1,102,936 978,361
Equity and liabilities
Equity
Share capital 50 50
Other contributed capital 391,558 391,558
Provisions 19,256 13,347
Retained earnings including profit for the year 223,292 116,830
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 634,157 521,786
Total equity 634,157 521,786
Noncurrent liabilities
Deferred tax liability 21,178 18,687
Liabilities to credit institutions 193 80,518
Other noncurrent liabilities 1,230 1,265
Total noncurrent liabilities 22,600 100,470
Current liabilities
Advances from clients 27,205 34,336
Provisions for restructuring measures 842 1,227
Trade payables 169,446 130,374
Tax liabilities 13,404 15,930
Liabilities to credit institutions 82,611 21,677
Other current liabilities 34,314 38,374
Accrued expenses and prepaid income 118,357 114,187
Total current liabilities 446,179 356,105
Total equity and liabilities 1,102,936 978,361
Consolidated statement of cash flow
SEKk 2018 2017
Operating activities
Profit before tax 139,036 109,871
Adjustment for non-cash items 27,922 34,936
Cash flow from operations 166,958 144,807
Income tax paid –32,681 –13,989
Cash flow from operating activities before  
changes in working capital 134,276 130,818
Change in trade receivables –39,938 –97,424
Change in other current receivables –18,905 1,934
Change in trade payables 37,602 18,369
Change in other current liabilities 5,685 –8,495
Cash flow from operating activities 118,720 45,202
Investing activities
Investments in intangible assets –78 –1,860
Investments in property, plant and equipment –17,576 –12,792
Sale of financial assets 429 –
Sale/acquisition of subsidiaries, net effect  
on cash and cash equivalents 10,157 –2,075
Cash flow from investing activities –7,068 –16,727
Financing activities
Financial liability/leasing 353 6
Repayment of debt –20,000 –32,000
Cash flow from financing activities –19,647 –31,994
Cash flow for the year 92,005 –3,519
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 61,319 62,023
Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 3,119 2,814
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 156,443 61,319Economic performance
Generated economic value
The table shows Cybercom’s generated direct economic value and how this is distributed to 
 various stakeholder groups. 
 
SEKk 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Generated direct  
economic value
Revenues 1,678,203 1,463,498 1,353,925 1,259,598 1,262,887
Distributed economic value
Employee benefits –851,299 –785,184 –766,570 –782,933 –824,303
Other external expenses –645,037 –522,884 –480,000 –408,590 –345,921
Charitable donations1) –663 –989 –549 –575 –521
EBITDA 181,204 154,440 106,806 67,500 92,142
Investment activities –19,197 –24,580 –23,363 –23,873 –26,373
Net finance income/expense –3,291 –2,592 –5,588 –2,621 –2,490
Dividends 0 0 0 0 –9,022
Corporation tax paid  
by country2)
Denmark –1,970 –1,062 0 0 0
Finland –8,965 –7,368 –3,503 –925 –3,567
India –1,058 –2,138 –754 –573 –1,637
Italy 0 0 0 –1 0
Korea –1,265 –1,316 –1,163 –809 –123
Poland –1,322 –1,314 –2,730 –1,755 –472
Rwanda 0 0 –187 0 –1,350
Senegal 0 0 0 0 –4,775
Singapore 0 0 –466 185 24
Sweden –15,616 –13,008 –4,215 –1 –319
Taiwan –87 –114 –126 –121 –94
Tanzania 0 –404 –431 –802 –582
Chad 0 0 –583 –546 –383
Germany 0 0 –10 0 0
Retained economic value 128,435 100,545 63,687 35,658 40,979
1)  As of 2017, the value of pro bono work has been included in the “Charity” item. Cybercom performed pro bono work in 
2018 worth SEK 530 thousand for Hello World!. 
2)  In some cases where the company delivers products or services to another country, withholding tax is deducted from the 
 payment to Cybercom. In countries where the company has paid withholding tax during the year, the amounts were included 
in total tax paid.
Consolidated income statement
SEKk 2018 2017
Net sales 1,663,761 1,455,144
Other operating income 14,318 7,889
Employee benefits –878,475 –800,365
Other external expenses –618,399 –508,227
Depreciation and amortisation –38,878 –37,708
Capital loss upon sale of subsidiary 0 –4,270
Operating profit 142,326 112,462
Financial income 1,262 2,580
Financial expense –4,552 –5,172
Profit before tax 139,036 109,871
Taxes –32,574 –28,010
Profit for the year 106,462 81,860
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
SEKk 2018 2017
Profit for the year 106,462 81,860
Other comprehensive income
Items that have or may be transferred  
to profit and loss for the period
Translation differences arising from translation of foreign operations 5,909 7,732
Translation differences transferred to profit for the year –1,039
Other comprehensive income for the year 5,909 6,693
Comprehensive income for the year 112,371 88,553
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 112,371 88,553
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 35To the general meeting of shareholders in Cybercom Holding AB, reg. no. 559025-7001
Engagement and responsibility
The board of directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2018 and for 
that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
Scope and orientation of the examination
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The  auditor’s 
opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory 
sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance 
with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We 
believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion.
Opinion
A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. 
Stockholm, 28 March 2019
KPMG AB
Helena Arvidsson Älgne
Authorised Public AccountantAuditor’s opinion regarding the 
statutory sustainability reportDirectors’ signatures
Stockholm, 27 March 2019
Board of DirectorsExecutive leadership team
Niklas Flyborg
President and CEO, Cybercom Group
Born 1962
Degree in Economics and Business 
Administration, Stockholm School 
of Economics 
With Cybercom since: 2012 
Previous: Mandator, Cell Network, 
Observer/Cision, Capgemini
Camilla Öberg
CFO Cybercom Group
Born 1964
Degree in Economics and Business 
Administration, Stockholm School 
of Economics
With Cybercom since: 2012
Previous: Logica, WM-data, SEB, 
 Lexicon and Swegro group
Annika Nordlander
Head of Cybercom Sweden.
Born 1959 
Systems Engineering, Mid Sweden 
University  
With Cybercom since: 2014
Previous: Ericsson, Fujitsu, 
 Merkantildata, DFind IT, Proffice
Tapio Koivisto
Head of Cybercom Finland 
Born 1980
B.Sc. Media Technology,  Metropolia 
Helsinki
With Cybercom since: 2004
Previous: Alma Media, AndritzJan Matulewicz 
Acting Head of Cybercom Poland
Born: 1978
MBA, University of Łódz
With Cybercom since: 2016
Previous: Ericpol
Ebbe Bo Hansen
Head of Cybercom Denmark
Born 1957 
M.Sc. Computer Science, Diploma Pro-
grammes Single Courses, Copenhagen 
Business School
With Cybercom since: 2004
Previous: Regnecentralen, Cap Gemini, 
International Datasupport, Logica, 
Ciber
Tony Hendrell
Head of Cybercom AWS Business 
Group
Born 1978 
B.Sc. Software Engineering,   
Stadia Helsinki
With Cybercom since: 2010 
Previous: Atea, Alma Media, MTV
Göran Dahlberg
Head of Secure Cybercom Group
Born 1973
Huthwaite International, ETS Assess-
ment and Development, Technical 
 Preparatory Year (KTH)
With Cybercom since: 2013
Previous: Postnord, Observer/Cision, 
Romeike, ImediaBo Strömqvist
Head of Sales Cybercom Group
Born 1964 
B.Sc. in Systems Analysis, Linköping 
University, Washington State 
 University
With Cybercom since: 2012
Previous: Rational Software, IBM, 
TDC, Cision, Enea
Linda Westlund
Head of HR Cybercom Group
Born 1978
B.Sc. in Sociology/Human Resources 
Management, Mid Sweden University
With Cybercom since: 2014
Previous: Uniflex Bemanning, 
Mistat AB
Dennis Lundqvist
CIO Cybercom Group
Born 1976
M.Sc. Electrical and Electronics 
 Engineering, KTH
With Cybercom since: 2016
Previous: ÅF AB, Epsilon ABRichard Brolin
General Counsel Cybercom Group
Born 1973 
LL.M. Stockholm University
With Cybercom since: 2018
Previous: Law firm of Sandart & Part-
ners, Kamera Interactive, af Petersens 
Law Firm, SunGard Data Systems Inc., 
Openlink Financial LLC
Kristina Cato
Head of Sustainability and  
Communications
Cybercom Group AB
Born 1968 
M.A, Uppsala University
With Cybercom since: 1999
Previous: Linköping University 
 Hospital
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 36 MANAGEMENTCYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ORGANISATION 37Index for Global Reporting Initiative 
and the UN Global Compact
GRI STANDARDS 2016 Page Remarks UNGC
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
Organisational profile
102-1 Name of the organisation Back cover
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6, 11, 12
102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover
102-4 Location of operations 6, omslag bak
102-5 Ownership and legal form 6
102-6 Markets served 6, back cover
102-7 Scale of the organisation 7, 31, 35
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 31 Principle 10
102-9 Supply chain 29, 33
102-10 Significant changes to organisation and its supply chain 6
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 29
102-12 External initiatives 12, 18
102-13 Membership of associations 12, 18
Strategy  
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8–9
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 7, 29 Principle 10
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 29
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 28
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 31 Principle 3
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 28
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 28
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 28
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 28
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 38 All units unless otherwise stated
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 28
102-47 List of material topics 28
102-48 Restatements of information38No corrections have been made
102-49 Changes in reporting 28
102-50 Reporting period 3
102-51 Date of most recent report 3
102-52 Reporting cycle 3
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 39
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 3
102-55 GRI content index 38–39
102-56 External assurance 3
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 28
103-2 The management approach and its components 29
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29Page references are given below that show where GRI disclosures and references to the principles of 
the UN Global Compact, UNGC (www.unglobalcompact.org) can be found in the sustainability report. 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 38 GRI AND UNGC INDEXProduction: Cybercom in cooperation  
with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. 
Print: Larsson Offsettryck, April 2019
Photography: Mattias Bardå, Ninni  
Andersson / Swedish Governance Offices 
and others.Niklas Flyborg 
President and CEO 
niklas.flyborg@cybercom.com
+46 70 594 96 78Kristina Cato 
Head of Sustainability and 
Communications 
kristina.cato@cybercom.com
+46 70 864 47 02
GRI STANDARDS 2016 Page Remarks UNGC
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
GRI 200: ECONOMIC 2016
Economic performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 7, 35
Anti-corruption
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 34 Principle 10
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 14 Principle 10
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 32 Principle 10
GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL 2016
Energy 
302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 33 Principles 7, 8
302-3 Energy intensity 33 Principle 8
Emissions 
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 33 Principles 7, 8
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 33 Principles 7, 8
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 33 Principle 8
GRI 400: SOCIAL 2016
Employment 
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 30–31 Principle 6
Occupational health and safety 
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and 
number of work-related fatalities.31 In view of the nature of the 
business, Cybercom has elected 
to report only absenteeism.
Training and education 
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 31 Principle 6
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 31 Principle 6
Diversity and equal opportunity 
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 31 Principle 6
Non-discrimination 
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 32 Principle 6
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining may be at risk.Cybercom reports the percent-
age of employees covered by 
collective bargaining agree-
ments. Other employees have 
been assessed as not working in 
operations where freedom of 
association is at risk. Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
Customer privacy 
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy  
and losses of customer data32
For more information about Cybercom’s sustainability work, please contact: 
CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI AND UNGC INDEX 39Cybercom Holding AB 
cybercom.com 
+46 8 578 646 00
Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Cybercom has offices in Bydgoszcz I Copenhagen I Gothenburg I Helsinki I Jönköping 
Karlskrona I Kista I Linköping I Lund I Łódz I Malmö I Mumbai I Stockholm  
Sundsvall I Tampere I Warsaw I ÖstersundCybercom is using the tools of ICT to make a sustainable 
tomorrow. In this publication, we tell you how that is 
being accomplished. Would you like to know more about 
how we can help your company capture the potential of 
digitalisation? 
– 
Get in touch at newbiz@cybercom.com. 
Let’s make tomorrow today!0
0
00
W
0000
0 01
1111
11
1
1
0TOF
OMA ERS
M RO
RK
O