AB
Connectivity
CYBERCOM GROUP · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015
Sustainability  
heroes of tomorrowBorderless  
technologyMachines  
enter the cloud SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015About the report: 
Cybercom presents an annual sustainability report in 
accordance with GRI. This is Cybercom’s sustainability 
report for 2015. The report is prepared in accordance 
with the GRI G4 international guidelines for sustainability 
reporting, Core option. In 2011, Cybercom signed up to 
the UN Global Compact and complies with its ten prin -
ciples for responsible business. This report is Cybercom's 
annual communication about how we are living up to, 
and working with, these principles.  Focus & boundaries: 
The information presented in the sustainability report  
refers to Cybercom Group AB. With joint ventures and 
subsidiaries accounted for on the basis of Cybercom Group's  
ownership interest. Any organisational boundaries are 
mentioned in connection with the reported information. 
Many aspects of sustainability have an impact beyond 
Cybercom’s legal framework, such as with our clients and 
suppliers. Cybercom regularly reports for each material 
sustainability aspect where it has its influence in the 
company's value chain. 
 2  Global goals  
  17 UN sustainable development goals 
 4 CEO comment  
  The future is here
 6  Cybercom in 3 minutes  
  An introduction to Cybercom 
 8  Interview  
  Interview with Dennis Pamlin 
 10  Targets and outcomes  
  Targets and achievement in 2015 
 14  Outlook  
  Megatrends in the industry
 22  The connected world  
  How Cybercom creates value in society
 30  Employees  
  Diversity
 36 Corporate responsibility  
  Importance of ethics and security
 38   Internal environmental 
efforts  
Reducing Cybercom’s environmental 
impact
 39  Code of conduct  
  Ethics and code of conduct 
 42  Chairman’s comment  
  The path forward  
 43  Corporate governance  
  How Cybercom is governed  
 44  GRI information  
  Stakeholder dialogue
 48  GRI index
     
8
24
1722
29
ABAt Cybercom we believe it is important to take re ­
sponsibility for how people, the environment and 
society are affected by our operations and, ulti ­
mately, the operations of our clients.
We actively strive to reduce our own impact on the 
environment, and we conduct dialogue about what 
is important from a sustainability perspective. That 
said, the greatest potential of a consulting company 
is, of course, our ability to influence our clients and, 
by extension, their users and end customers. 
Our offer includes innovative, secure and effective 
solutions that contribute to profitability and sus ­
tainable development through, for example, cost 
savings, energy savings and, above all, reducing 
the consumption of finite resources.We take
respons i bility
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  1GLOBAL GOALS
No poverty
End poverty in all its forms everywhere.
When the 17 goals were adopted, 
Mark Zuckerberg and U2 singer Bono 
published an article announcing a 
digitalisation campaign, arguing the 
world need to be connected to reduce 
poverty. This is about Connectivity, 
what Cybercom works with.
Find out more on page 15Quality education
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality 
education and promote lifelong 
learning for all.  
Cybercom is a main partner to 
Universeum, SOS Children's Villages 
and the Hello World! association, 
aimed at promoting digital creativity 
among children and young people.
Find out more on pages 32Good health and well-being 
Ensure healthy lives and promote 
well-being for all at all ages.
Physical inactivity is one of the ten 
biggest risk factors for premature 
death. Cybercom has developed the 
MovereX mobile app that supports 
physical activity on prescription  to 
deal with this.
Find out more on page 16
Sustainable cities and communities 
Make cities and human settlements 
inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.  
In Sweden and Finland, Cybercom has  
constructed a framework for secure 
e-identification that brings together 
public and private services for citizens 
and businesses in one place.
Find out more on page 28Responsible consumption  
and production 
Ensure sustainable consumption and 
production patterns.  
Cybercom was chosen by SVP 
Worldwide as its connectivity partner 
when it wanted to connect its most 
advanced sewing machine ever. 
Find out more on page 28UN global goals
In 2015, the United Nations adopted 17 global goals that 
world leaders have committed to achieve by 2030. 
The goals were created to: 
• End poverty. 
• Fight injustice and inequality. 
• Combat climate change.
ICT (Information, Communication & Technology)  is able 
to play an extremely important role, helping to achieve the 
goals through increased digitalisation. These are  
the 17 goals and some examples of where Cybercom has 
contributed in 2015.1 3 4
11 12
2  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015GLOBAL GOALS
Industry, innovation and  
infrastructure
Build resilient infrastructure, promote 
inclusive and sustainable industrial-
isation and foster innovation.  
During the year, Cybercom has 
advised several industrial companies 
on the development of IoT solutions, 
including for Heliospectra’s intelligent 
lighting technology for greenhouses. 
Find out more on page 28 
Climate action
Take urgent action to combat climate 
change and its impacts. 
Together with the City of Gothenburg 
and others, Cybercom is develop -
ing new solutions for tomorrow's 
sustainable public transport. 
Find out more on page 13Affordable and clean energy
Ensure access to affordable, reliable, 
sustainable and modern energy for all.  
During the year Cybercom conducted 
CAPEX/OPEX analysis to create 
efficiency improvements for a leading 
telecom operator in Bangladesh. 
Find out more on page 21Gender equality 
Achieve gender equality and empower  
all women and girls.  
The AllBright Foundation noted that 
Cybercom is the best in our industry 
in terms of the proportion of women 
in management positions, with 36 % 
women in the management team.  
Find out more on page 305 9
137
Peace, justice and strong  
institutions
Promote peaceful and inclusive  
societies for sustainable development, 
provide access to justice for all and 
build effective, accountable and 
inclusive institutions et al.  
Cybercom has developed and is res -
ponsible for Openaid.se, the Swedish  
International Development Coopera -
tion Agency’s web-based information 
service for Sweden's development aid.  
Find out more on page 1516
Partnerships for the goals
Strengthen the means of implemen -
tation and revitalise the global part -
nership for sustainable development.  
Cybercom has been a signatory of 
the UN Global Compact since 2011.
Find out more on page  417
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  3CEO COMMENT
The future  
is here
ogether with leaders from 
several of our clients, I attended 
the UN Private Sector Forum last 
September to put into practice 
important collaborations that 
will steer the world towards the new sustainable 
development goals by 2030. There are solutions, 
and I am optimistic. Both Cybercom and I are on 
board. We support the Global Compact and we 
are convinced that, together with our clients and 
partners, we can help to make a difference – to 
drive development in the right direction through 
digitalisation, by connecting people, machines, 
devices, countries and authorities – through 
what we call Connectivity. 
Cybercom’s expertise and our solutions for 
the connected world are contributing to the 
fourth industrial revolution. This means we 
have a unique opportunity, and a responsibil -
ity, to advance the business of our clients and 
to drive development in the right direction 
and at the necessary pace. We ensure that the 
foundations of our digital society are secure, 
transparent and based on renewable resour -
ces. We ensure that the services provided by 
this new society are competitive and access-
ible, while in the long run having less adverse 
impact on the climate and environment. A continued intense force for change is both 
possible, from a technical perspective, and 
necessary, from a sustainability perspective. 
The world will look very different just ten years 
from now. Cybercom is creating competitive 
differentiation and new democratic reach, 
together with our clients, by developing socially 
beneficial, secure and accessible services for 
the connected citizen and the connected 
consumer. We are also helping industries to 
improve their energy efficiency, and we are 
helping cities with more intelligent mobility 
solutions. There is growing demand, large 
market potential and a sustainable future in 
this. I am proud of our clients, my colleagues 
and the solutions we deliver. In 2015 we took 
a step forward in this positive direction. We are 
the makers of tomorrow.
Strategic direction
During the year we updated our strategic plan 
to improve our profitability to 10% in the long 
term, and to lay the foundation for growth of 
5% annually. We have further focused the busi -
ness towards building long-term relationships 
with a range of clients, for whom we know we 
can bring clear value, both short-term and long-
term. Our sales team is working systematically to grow our business with key accounts and 
priority clients. We have organised ourselves us -
ing this strategy, and I have appointed a business 
leadership team that, alongside the operational 
leadership, will be able to help us accelerate our 
business relationships and increase cooperation 
across regional and national borders. We are 
now going a step further in living close to our 
clients. This is about all of us at Cybercom; we 
must all be consultants who create value for our 
clients and grow our business. 
With 20 years of experience in IT and com -
munication services, we can guide our clients 
in their digital journey. Our vision is to be our 
clients’ most trusted business partner in the 
connected world. We are experiencing ever 
greater demand for strategic advice in Con -
nectivity, and we are increasingly being invited 
to leadership conversations, through which we 
can make a bigger difference. Digitalisation 
is a priority agenda item for many leadership 
teams and boards. This was particularly evi -
dent at the most recent World Economic For -
um in Davos, where Swedish companies were 
criticised for lagging behind. I do not agree. 
Every week I see so many good examples of 
driving innovation and digital development 
among our clients in Sweden, as well as in 
the other countries where we operate. New 
business models are being created. New and 
resilient services are changing business ideas. It 
is enormously exciting to be part of this. 
In our strategic shift, we have streamlined 
our offering and made it clear where we 
create the most value. This is important in 
order to strengthen our brand. We present our 
expertise in the areas of Digitalisation, Secure 
Connectivity, Internet of Things and Managed 
Cloud. As a component of connectivity we We find ourselves in an era of both fantastic technological 
progress, generating opportunities to create a better world, and 
major global concern, with millions of people displaced and an 
unstable economy. World leaders, innovators and fellow citizens 
have adopted 17 global goals for the development of our world, 
and to ensure a sustainable and more equitable future, largely 
with the help of the opportunities provided by technology. 
T
4  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015XXXXX
XXXXXXXXCEO COMMENT
WE ENSURE THAT THE 
SERVICES PROVIDED BY THIS 
NEW SOCIETY ARE COM-  
PETITIVE AND ACCESSIBLE, 
WHILE IN THE LONG RUN  
HAVING LESS ADVERSE  
IMPACT ON THE CLIMATE  
AND ENVIRONMENT.  ❝collaborate with our clients and networks to 
deliver smart sustainable solutions that are 
profitable in the short term and long term. 
This is about creating efficiency and greater 
competitiveness by benefitting from the op -
portunities of the connected world – but also 
managing its risks, complying with legislation 
and regulations, and protecting privacy. We 
have unique security expertise, which was 
exemplified when our The Procurement Check 
service was named Swedish IT Security Solu -
tion 2015. We share this free of charge with 
our clients and colleagues in the industry to 
improve security in our digital society.
Meritocracy is crucial 
In our strategic shift, we are also focusing on 
becoming a better employer. Our mission is 
“Boosting your performance in the connected 
world”, and this includes all our employees 
being given room to grow with us, through ex -
citing, challenging and interesting assignments. 
The market for IT services is generally good, and 
with this comes fierce competition in the recruit -
ment arena. By 2020 there will be a shortfall of 
around one million IT professionals in the EU, 
and at least 60,000 in Sweden. This means we 
face an enormous challenge, namely to secure 
the supply of skills in our industry and to ensure 
there are people who can nurture and develop 
the digital opportunities in our society. We en -
gage in initiatives to attract and ignite interest in 
technology among children and young people in 
collaboration with, for example, Universeum and 
Next Up in Gothenburg, Makerslink in Linköping, 
Hello World! in Stockholm, Good Malmö, and 
SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda. We are in -
volved in organising coding courses for children, 
and we participate in creative hackathons. 
Sweden currently has a liberal regulatory 
framework for labour migration, which is 
positive and fundamentally necessary for our 
sector. As someone who works in our industry, 
it is amazing to note that IT today accounts for 
the largest share of labour immigration to our 
country. I see this as a great potential asset for 
Cybercom. In the IT world, we speak a universal 
language without borders between countries, 
cultures, genders, social backgrounds, ages or 
religions. Diversity is the best ingredient for us, 
an enabler to develop innovative solutions. 
Statistics show that the proportion of wom -
en in the IT and telecom industries in Sweden 
dropped from around 32% in 2006 to 29% in 
2014. In our company, it has fallen from 21% 
to 17% across the group. We must improve on this and increase our efforts. We are now set -
ting a clear goal. We should have at least the 
same proportion of women as the percentage 
of females graduating from engineering cours -
es annually in the programs that we recruit 
from – the target is 30%. This starts with the 
leadership team, and I am pleased to see that 
36% of my colleagues today are women. It 
is important for Cybercom to have inspiring 
leadership that creates a dynamic dialogue 
and promotes a common and oxygen-rich 
culture built on diversity and clear values. At 
Cybercom this is about providing plenty of 
room for innovation, passion and building 
trust, and generating synergy internally in our 
operations and externally for our clients and 
other stakeholders in wider society. 
Our footprint in 2015 
Very many positive things have happened in 
Cybercom’s business during the year. We were 
entrusted to help the Finnish government to 
digitalise its activities, and to implement elec -
tronic identification services and associated ad -
ministration of roles and permissions. We have 
worked with public authorities and companies 
to create energy-smart public transport solu -
tions in Gothenburg and Stockholm. We are 
involved in the development of autonomous 
vehicles that will be running on our roads in a 
year or so. We have built and optimised mobile 
networks on remote islands in the Caribbean, 
and in Africa and the Middle East. We have 
connected cranes and asphalt rollers for safer 
and more efficient industry. We have driven 
IoT development for garden 
machinery and industrial 
robots, and we have con -
nected sewing machines to 
the cloud. We have helped 
one of Europe's largest 
university hospitals with a decentralised data 
security procedure for improved practical work 
with data security, and we are enhancing the 
digital presence of several Swedish munici -
palities. We have transferred one of Finland's 
largest media houses to the cloud. And this is 
just the beginning! 
During the year, it became necessary to 
adapt our business to the market in Finland. We 
closed the office in Turku, affecting some 30 
employees. We concentrated our operations to 
Tampere and Helsinki to achieve more sustaina -
ble economic development in our company. 
The year ended with our principal owner, JCE 
Group, and Teguity placing a bid for Cybercom, 
and the company was delisted. Cybercom is 
now in private hands to allow an opportunity to 
create an even more stable platform for future 
growth and profitability. Under private own -
ership the company can develop both more 
rapidly and more vigorously in its current phase.
We are now aiming at creating more value 
for our clients, employees, owners and wider 
society by developing our operations closer to 
our goal of achieving more profitable growth 
and creating a more sustainable business. Join 
us for our continued exciting journey!
Niklas Flyborg President and CEO, Cybercom 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  5CYBERCOM  
IN 3 MINUTES
A business partner to our clients:   
Cybercom is an innovative IT consult­
ing company founded in Sweden in 
1995. Today we enable companies 
and organisations to benefit from the 
opportunities of the connected world 
and to enhance their competitiveness. 
32% 91% 100%
would recommend us! will probably or definitely continue  
to buy from ussee a great advantage in buying from us  
compared with competitorsRESULTS OF CYBERCOM’S 2016 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY
6  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015CYBERCOM  
IN 3 MINUTES
employees at Cybercom of employees have a university degree people recruited in 2015 Bo Strömqvist, Sales Manager, Cybercom  Our clients are found mainly in the public sector, 
telecommunications and manufacturing, as well 
as in trade and the media. 
AMONG OUR LARGEST CLIENTS:
ALMA MEDIA GROUP 
ASSA ABLOY 
ERICSSON 
FINNISH NATIONAL BOARD OF EDUCATION
HUSQVARNA  
IKEA 
Distributed value 2015MTV FINLAND  
SAAB  
SWEDISH TAX AGENCY
SONY MOBILE  
VOLVO AB  
VOLVO CARS 
STOCKHOLM COUNTY COUNCIL
1,218 90%237OUR VISION IS TO BE OUR 
CLIENTS’ MOST TRUSTED 
BUSINESS PARTNER IN THE 
CONNECTED WORLD. ❝
Ersättning till an ställda, 65 ,27% 
Övriga externa kostnader, 27,39% 
Av- och nedskrivningar , 2,09%
Finansne tto, 0,20%
Skatt, 1,14%
Utdelning, 0, 71%
Välgörenhet, 0, 04%
Bibehållet  ekonomis kt värde, 3,16%
 • Employee benefits,  
incl. social charges 64.0%  
•Other external expenses 33.4%  
•Investment activities 2.0%
•Net finance income/expense 0.2%
•Tax 0.4% 
•Charitable donations 0.05% SWEDEN
FINLAND
DENMARK
POLAND
INDIA
DUBAI
SINGAPOREClients
We are located in 
seven countries
AND WE CONDUCT BUSINESS IN 20 COUNTRIES
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  7“ The sustainability    heroes of tomorrow 
    are those with the    solutions”INTERVIEW
8  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015INTERVIEW
ow should a 
company like 
Cybercom act to 
move in a more 
sustainable 
direction?
“It’s very much about showing what 
is already being done, but has not 
been labelled as sustainability, for 
example by putting numbers to 
how many tonnes of greenhouse 
gases are saved using Cybercom’s 
solutions. Cybercom has an import -
ant role in explaining to clients and 
decision-makers which underlying 
solutions are critical to smart sustain -
ability solutions. Without encryption, 
compression algorithms, cloud 
storage and real-time data we cannot 
have smart buildings, smart mobility 
or smart consumption patterns – 
which make up tomorrow’s infra -
structure for global sustainability.” 
 
Can modern technology alone 
make the world sustainable?
“The technology we have available 
today is sufficient, but we have to 
use it in a smart way and this requires 
changes to organisations, regulations 
and our habits. For example, through 
“dematerialisation”, which is to 
deliver the same or similar services 
with lower consumption of natural re -
sources. This can be achieved through 
the development of digital solutions that replace a physical product or ser -
vice, or by enabling collaboration and 
sharing, in which smart ICT solutions 
are required. The fact that companies 
like Cybercom already deliver these 
kinds of solution without calling them 
sustainable is usually because they are 
actually developed to be smarter and 
more cost-effective, not because they 
are sustainable.” 
How big is the actual potential 
for the ICT sector to create more 
sustainable societies?
“ICT has a central role in a sustain -
able future. There are studies that 
show we could cut global emissions 
of greenhouse gases by 20% in 
2030 using ICT, without making any 
major changes. But the potential is We sat down with sustainability expert Dennis 
Pamlin to talk about his views on the ICT sector's 
role in creating sustainable societies. 
much greater than that, and many 
commentators claim that ICT com -
panies are the most important sector 
for global sustainability. Many ICT 
companies can contribute to more 
than 100 times greater emissions re -
ductions than they emit themselves.”  
  
Finally, where should Cybercom 
focus its sustainability efforts in 
future? 
“The sustainability heroes of today 
and tomorrow are the people who 
come up with the solutions – particu -
larly IT companies that can create the 
sustainable knowledge society. Cyber -
com is able to play an important role 
by shifting the focus from problems 
to solutions – since your core business 
often leads to sustainable solutions, 
higher sales go hand in hand with a 
greater contribution to sustainability. 
I would therefore argue that there is 
a moral responsibility for those that 
have sustainable ICT solutions to make 
money. That may sound dramatic, but 
we cannot afford to continue to lock 
ourselves into resource inefficient and 
non-smart solutions. 
Working in a sector that has a 
moral responsibility to make money is 
something I believe we should see as 
a great opportunity, because it allows 
us to combine innovation, good 
economic performance and a better 
world. There are worse jobs.”H
Dennis Pamlin is the founder 
and chief executive of 21st 
Century Frontiers, and a senior 
associate at the Chinese Acad -
emy of Social Sciences. He has 
extensive experience in ICT 
and telecoms, specialising in 
innovation and sustainability. 
He is currently an independ -
ent consultant, responsible 
for the Low Carbon Leaders 
Project within the UN Global 
Compact.“ The sustainability    heroes of tomorrow 
    are those with the    solutions”❞
I WOULD ARGUE THAT 
THERE IS A MORAL 
RESPONSIBILITY FOR 
THOSE THAT HAVE 
SUSTAINABLE ICT 
SOLUTIONS TO MAKE 
MONEY .
DENNIS PAMLIN
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  9TARGETS  
AND OUTCOMES
Targets & outcomes
Cybercom has identified 10 sustainability aspects that we believe are material to 
our operations. Based on these aspects we have formulated our operational work 
and set goals that describe how we govern Cybercom.
WE WANT AT LEAST AS MANY FEMALE EMPLOYEES 
AS THE PROPORTION OF WOMEN WHO GRADUATE 
FROM THE TECHNICAL UNIVERSITIES, WHICH MEANS 
AT LEAST 30% IN THE LONG TERM.❝Sustainable business
Diversity  
& equalityDedicated employees & 
employee developmentPrivacy issues  
related to IT
Business ethics Sustainability in 
Cybercom's cultureInformation 
security
Sustainable 
products & servicesFinancial stability
Smart use of 
resourcesEnvironmental impactProfi tability, growth, client baseOur role as an employer
Anti­corruption  
& anti­competitive 
behaviour
Business ethicsCybercom’s 
sustainability  
aspects
Simon Südowsson
Sustainability Ambassador  
and Consultant, Cybercom
10  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015TARGETS  
AND OUTCOMES
Financial targets
Profitability Cybercom shall be one of the more profitable companies 
among its closest comparable competitors and achieve an 
EBIT margin of 10%. In connection of the acquisition of Cybercom  
large impairments were made to goodwill, which  
generated a negative EBIT margin. Excluding 
impairment the EBIT margin was 3.0%  (5.2). 
Growth Cybercom shall strive to achieve growth of 5% annually 
over the business cycle.  Sales increased by 0% (6). Target met Positive development Negative development
Operating targets
Assignment types We will achieve an even distribution of sales between 
consulting services and turnkey projects/solutions in our 
assignments. Turnkey assignments and projects 34%  (39) 
Consulting services 66%  (61). 
Our role as  
an employerWe will have the highest level of engagement among our 
employees by providing them with an attractive working 
environment, good terms and conditions, and useful oppor -
tunities for professional development. We work actively to 
increase our diversity in order to create a dynamic and inno-
vative working environment. We measure this through a 
group-wide employee survey called Cybercom People Voice.  In previous years, we have measured an overall 
employee motivation index. We have now 
chosen to set a specific target for employee 
engagement in excess of 75% – in 2015 this was  
66%  (68). The target for our leadership index is 
above 80% – in 2015 this was 75% (69). 
Sustainable  
businessWe will increase the amount of sustainable business with 
our clients. We measure this by looking at what business 
contributes to sustainable development and responsible 
use of resources through, for example, cost savings, 
efficiency, security, and reduced use of resources that has 
a negative environmental impact. At Cybercom’s ten largest clients, 49%  (27)  
of assignments have contributed to improved 
sustainability through efficiency, cost savings,  
security or a reduced degree of exploitation of 
the earth’s resources. 
Business ethics High ethical standards will be a part of our DNA and perme -
ate all our activities and all our business. All our employees, 
suppliers and partners should sign Cybercom’s code of 
conduct. We use internal certification for anti-corruption 
and the code of conduct. We measure and monitor the 
number of certifications annually. We monitor the number 
of incidents in our operations. 50%  of Cybercom's employees, including the 
entire board and senior management team, have 
completed certification. No incidents have been 
reported. Better systems will be introduced for 
monitoring the supplier code of conduct. 
Environmental 
impact – travelWe will reduce our CO2 emissions as a result of travel per 
revenue krona by at least 5% between 2011 and 2015. Since 2011, CO2 emissions as a result of travel per 
rev enue krona have decreased by approximately 
55%.
Client base 
Selected key clients will account for 70% of 
sales. Our ten largest clients will account for ap -
proximately 50% of sales and no single client 
will account for more than 15%. Today the  
largest clients account for 41% (40) of sales. 
The largest single client accounts for 14% (15). Recruitment 
We will make net recruitment of at least 5%. 
We welcome diversity and strive to achieve 
the equivalent of at least the gender distribu -
tion of the technical universities, with approx -
imately 30% female employees. Currently 
17% of Cybercom’s employees are female. Environmental impact 
We strive to achieve a positive environmental 
impact so that our solutions and the direct 
impact of all our operations are net positive. 
We work in accordance with ISO 14001.  
Parts of the company are currently certified. New targets from 2016Area Description of target Outcome 2015 Status
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  11A
XXXXX
XXXXXXXXEASY
12  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015B
XXXXX
XXXXXXXXEASY
Annika Nordlander is regional head at Cybercom Sweden North East: “There are really 
no limits to connectivity. It will impact all parts of society and pave the way for new 
ideas on how to do business and how to spread knowledge. It removes administrative 
burdens and frees up time to be invested in the making of the future.” Easier to share
Connectivity makes it easy to share things with each 
other. This means you can save money and give  
nature a break, without even having to think about it. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  13OUTLOOK
Technology 
without  
borders 
There are currently a number of mega­
trends: globalisation, urbanisation and 
digitalisation. Following in their wake are 
trends affecting industry, cities, citizens 
and consumers. Robotisation is making 
traditional production more efficient, phys ­
ical goods are becoming digital services, 
industry is coming into direct contact with 
its end customers, and consumption pat ­
terns are constantly changing.
These changes bring with them many new 
opportunities, but it is also important to be 
aware and take account of the risks that 
can arise with new technology. Security, 
privacy and a greater understanding of the 
world around us are all essential ingredi ­
ents for safe navigation. On the following 
pages you can read about some of the 
trends and new business models that we 
believe may affect our world today and in 
the future.
14  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015OUTLOOK
n September 25, 2015 the 
United Nations held a his -
toric meeting at which 193 
world leaders decided on 17 global 
goals to achieve three extraordinary 
changes by 2030. These are to end 
poverty, fight injustice and inequality, 
and to combat climate change. The 
global goals for sustainable develop -
ment could lead to the solution to 
these problems in all countries and 
for all people. 
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, 
lead singer of the band U2 and 
co-founder of humanitarian organ -
isation ONE Bono, and founder and 
CEO of Facebook Mark Zuckerberg 
all took part, along with business 
leaders from around the world. Cy -
bercom, with its CEO Niklas Flyborg, 
was the only Swedish IT consulting 
company that attended the Private 
Sector Forum, which discussed the 
Global Compact, an initiative that 
focuses on the role of the private sec -
tor in implementing the sustainable 
development goals.
The otherwise somewhat odd 
duo of Mark Zuckerberg and Bono announced the launch of a campaign 
to focus on digitalisation, and asserted 
that internet connection is a human 
right. 
Mark Zuckerberg declared that 
Facebook intends to work with the 
UNHCR to support the millions of 
refugees fleeing war and poverty by 
providing internet.
“Connectivity will help refugees 
better access support from the aid 
community and maintain links to family  
and loved ones,” he said in his speech. 
Zuckerberg and Bono also expan-
ded on their thoughts in a New York 
Times article, in which they described 
the current situation of the poor 
and refugees. Today, only half of 
the world’s population has internet 
access, and the proportion is much 
lower in developing countries. They 
emphasised that technology com -
panies and entrepreneurs must take 
responsibility, and said that all the 
global goals must be achieved, but 
that the aim of internet access for all 
is likely to accelerate fulfilment of the 
other goals.
Find out more at www.one.org  Globalisation
Urbanisation
utonomous vehicles are 
likely to become reality in 
the future. At the same 
time, there is a problem with infra -
structure. Several major infrastructure 
projects are being undertaken around 
the world to increase capacity on 
our roads. But are we thinking the 
right way in expanding with more 
asphalt and concrete? The limiting 
factor in traffic today is actually 
people, and our comparatively slow 
reaction times. Driverless cars that 
react super-fast require significantly 
shorter distances between vehicles, 
and expansion might not always be 
necessary. Modern industry is often 
much further advanced in terms of 
both digitalisation and sustainability 
than government authorities and 
politicians.Building concrete  
or digital  
infrastructure?Connecting the world  
to bring it together
Transparency  
in Swedish  
development aid 
ybercom has helped develop 
OpenAid, a service providing 
digital transparency to 
Swedish development aid. The website 
www.openaid.se allows people to 
see when, how, to whom, and for 
what purpose Swedish development 
aid has been paid. The information 
includes financial support from the 
Swedish International Development 
Cooperation Agency, the Ministry for 
Foreign Affairs and other authorities 
that administer development aid. 
This type of information was previ -
ously very difficult to access because 
the data was scattered throughout 
different systems. Openaid.se brings 
together everything in one place, 
which improves the transparency of 
development aid, and may in turn lead 
to increased dialogue on aid effective -
ness and outcomes.Cybercom’s influence
DRIVERLESS CARS THAT  
REACT SUPER-FAST 
REQUIRE SIGNIFI -  
CAN TLY SHORTER  
DISTANCES.
Albin Olsson
Sustainability  
Ambassador and  
Consultant, Cybercom❝
A CO
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  15OUTLOOK
hysical inactivity is one of 
the ten biggest risk factors 
for premature death, and a 
sedentary lifestyle leads to large costs 
for health care. The fifth leading risk 
factor for women to suffer illness is 
physical inactivity, and for men it is 
the sixth largest risk factor. In order 
to combat sedentary lifestyles, doc -
tors and physiotherapists sometimes 
prescribe physical activity to patients, 
since there is strong scientific 
evidence that this is, in many cases, a 
good alternative to medication. 
One problem of prescribing physi -
cal activity is that only just over 40% 
of patients follow their prescribed ex -
ercise – Cybercom wants to change 
this. In October 2015 we launched 
MovereX, a mobile app with an 
associated activity bracelet and 
web interface, which can assist and 
motivate patients prescribed physical 
activity to exercise more. The benefits 
for health care of using MovereX, 
instead of the usual paper forms, are 
expected to be that more patients 
follow their prescribed exercise and more effective prescription manage -
ment for health care providers. 
In a playful way, MovereX can 
make it easier and more fun for pa -
tients to exercise more, which could 
result in better public health and fit -
ter patients. It also has the potential 
to considerably reduce health care 
costs as preventative measures using 
MovereX are very much cheaper than 
caring for patients with diabetes, 
cardiovascular 
disease and  
other conditions 
caused by  
physical  
inactivity.
 Cybercom’s influence
Mapping to understand the  
end customer’s businessHow business leaders view 
automated technology
n important trend that 
originated in digitalisation 
is the need to map end 
customers in order to understand 
their business and their consequent 
opportunities and challenges. The 
Industry is at a stage where it is possi -
ble for a company to address more of 
its customers’ concerns than simply 
the ordered product, and a number 
of successful businesses have already 
begun to realise this. 
Publishing manuals and user 
guides for products online is just the 
first step. For example, connecting 
a product to a cloud service enables 
the next step in creating services for 
the customer. One obvious example 
is connected tools used in contract -
ing. By connecting each tool, a 
foreman is able to keep track of time 
taken and risk levels in use, and can xford researchers Frey 
and Osborne found in an 
acclaimed study that about 
half of all jobs could be performed 
using automated technology in 
15–20 years, given the ongoing 
technological developments. The 
study* does not, however, address 
how many jobs in other sectors 
will be created by automation, 
something that will almost certainly 
happen. Other important aspects are 
how automation provides improved 
working environments, health care, 
education and elderly care, to name 
but a few.
Research firm Kairos Future has 
investigated how Swedish business 
DigitalisationDigitalisation
More exercise reduces 
health care costs
simplify time reporting and billing 
based on data sent from each unit. 
Eventually, these functions may be 
decisive in the customer’s choice of 
product, and may even account for 
the majority of the company’s reve -
nue rather than the sale of a single 
product, which is a one-off.leaders approach the threats and 
potential of automation. It was found 
that only 4% of Swedish business 
leaders strongly agree with the 
statement that automation is a threat 
to jobs, but that more than one in 
two managers expect to be able to 
reduce employee numbers. At the 
same time, 89% agreed that this is a 
necessary and desirable development 
to increase profitability. One in four 
respondents also said that automa -
tion has affected their own business 
to a very large extent over the past 
five years, and 89% of these said that 
automation has created opportunities 
for entirely new products and services.
Read more at www.kairosfuture.com.
*) Frey och Osborne: The future of employment: How susceptible are jobs to computerisation? 2013.
AO
P
70%
of all surveyed patients within  
the primary care claim to be  
insufficiently physically active
16  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015OUTLOOK
ur world is becoming 
increasingly connected. 
People and businesses are 
creating newer, more efficient and 
more innovative ways to process, 
share and distribute data. As 
systems become more important, 
so specifying availability, privacy and 
security becomes more critical at the 
procurement stage.
It is challenging to specify security 
during IT procurement. But achieving 
this provides significantly greater 
quality aspects than just security, for 
both the customer and the supplier. 
This is why we created The Procure -
ment Check – a cost-free, flexible 
support for all types of IT procure -
ment, to ensure that critical security 
issues do not fall through the cracks.
Since its launch, almost 1,000 
people have downloaded and used 
The Procurement Check, which partly 
contributed to The Procurement 
Check being named IT Security Solu -
tion 2015 at the Security Awards.
2015
SECURITY
AWARDS
WINNERAn article by Mattias Allring in Swedish newspaper Dagens 
Nyheter, debating “Data from your activity bracelet is an 
insurer’s dream” had an impact in Sweden and internationally. 
In Finland, it was picked up by television news channel YLE 
Nyheter, which discovered that a Finnish insurance company 
was gathering user data from its policyholders with an activity 
bracelet it had sent out, in order to provide tailored products, 
just as Mattias Allring had predicted in his article. The insurer 
stopped collecting the data following YLE’s report. Cybercom’s influenceCybercom’s influence
n the digital world the 
product is often a private 
individual, something that 
is increasingly important to consider 
as our everyday products become 
connected. This is not necessarily a 
bad thing, but we need a broader 
debate about how our digital lives 
are shaped, says Mattias Allring, a 
consultant at Cybercom. 
Every day, private individuals leave 
hundreds of digital footprints that 
are gathered, processed, resold and 
used by companies. The aim is not to 
cause harm – it is a way to optimally 
adapt activities and offerings to the 
individual and their needs. Some -
times to offer something. Sometimes 
to sell something about that person to someone else. Always to adapt the 
world to the individual and the data 
they leave behind.
“The digital world has begun to 
entwine itself around us as individu -
als,” says Mattias Allring. “It adapts 
and plays customised versions of 
reality. Your world is no longer the 
same as mine.” 
And this is just the beginning. The 
next major developmental step will 
be for virtually everything to be con -
nected to the internet. Your shoes, 
your milk carton, your flowerbed. 
Each new piece of your life and your 
surroundings is an opportunity to 
develop new services for you.
“The technology already exists 
to realise many of the online world 
utopias. Your new connected car 
could, technically, already support 
behaviour-based day-to-day insur -
ance, with premiums set according 
to how you actually drove yesterday. 
And your online health monitor could 
be used together with the content 
of your fridge to determine the life 
insurance offered by your insurer,” 
explains Mattias.
As a result of all that the connect -
ed world offers us, we will probably 
live longer, reduce our stress, have 
more time with our family, get more exciting job offers, live more sustain-
ably and be able to afford more. The 
downside is that we do not know in 
what context the data will pop up 
and shape our lives. 
“I believe, for example, that 
within a few years it will be possible to 
automatically make the first shortlist 
of job applications by examining how 
truthfully the applicant describes them -
selves. The right customer will receive 
the red carpet treatment, but those 
who do not fit the template will be 
rejected in many ways,” says Mattias. 
To participate in shaping the future, 
we need to set in motion a broader 
debate about what is happening in 
the connected world, so that we as a 
society can be involved in shaping it. 
“The most important thing we 
can do as advisors is to extrapolate 
the trend. Demonstrate the logic, 
enlighten decision-makers who own 
the ethical decisions by putting the 
picture in a broader context for them, 
and getting them to understand the 
consequences, not just economically 
but also ethically. Our role as advisors 
is to help decision-makers to make 
informed decisions. We have a social 
responsibility to help all of society to 
anticipate the risks and opportunities 
of the future.”Specify  
security during 
procurement Imagine you  
being the product
WE NEED TO SET IN 
MOTION A BROADER 
DEBATE ABOUT  
WHAT IS HAPPENING 
IN THE CONNECTED 
WORLD.❝Mattias AllringI
O
WHISTLEBLOWING STOPPED  
ACTIVITY BRACELET
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  17Are the  
robots  
taking 
our jobs?
“Machines have less problems. I'd like to be a machine, 
wouldn't you?” Andy Warhol’s oft ­quoted words were  
spoken in 1963, but he was neither the first nor the last 
celebrity to take an interest in the wonders of technology. 
Robots have been portrayed as anything from pleasant 
companions to job ­stealing killing machines. OUTLOOK
18  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015OUTLOOK
Are the  
robots  
taking 
our jobs?he oldest known 
design of a robot 
that survives 
is of a knight, 
sketched by 
Leonardo da 
Vinci. It could sit down and lift its 
visor. The industrial revolution, and 
the advent of machines in factories 
during the 1800s, lifted people out 
of poverty and allowed them to avoid 
heavy and dangerous work, and to 
devote themselves to more advanced 
tasks. Robotisation enabled mass 
production, giving everyone access 
to goods and services previously only 
available to the wealthy.
These days, Apple has onshored 
parts of its production to the US, 
where it is handled by industrial 
robots instead of low-wage labour. 
Companies as diverse as Google and 
Volvo are developing self-driving cars, 
and in China Foxconn has an army 
of robots in its first fully automated 
factory. Robots have become com -
monplace in the world of services. 
At the airport we check in and drop 
our luggage using robots, and on 
the stock markets lightning-fast 
algorithms have replaced the most 
polished brokers. 
Robots and labour
But what does this mean for work -
ers? Cybercom took time to talk with 
economist and robotics researcher 
Georg Graetz.
“Industrial robots have long been 
important for improving efficiency, but 
it was not until the 1990s that they became really cheap, and therefore a 
possible option for more sectors and 
industries,” explains Georg Graetz. 
In their study “Robots at Work”, 
Graetz and his colleague Guy 
Michaels investigated how the use of 
robots in 17 countries has impacted 
productivity gains, employment 
growth and other variables. They 
found that productivity increased 
more where robot use was more 
widespread. Robots account for more 
than one-sixth of the total produc -
tivity growth of 2 % per year in the 
countries included in the study. 
“We have not looked at ICT as 
a whole, but only where robots 
are involved. For me the results are 
interesting because robots do not 
yet make up a particularly large 
component of capital. This shows the 
potential in the future. 
Total hours worked unchanged
They also found that the increased use 
of machines had not led to a reduc -
tion in employment, and the effect on 
the total number of hours was zero. 
“But when we broke it down into 
different groups, we saw that hours 
worked for people with higher edu -
cation increased, while the number of 
hours for the low-skilled had fallen.” 
From this they concluded that robots 
are taking certain jobs, mainly low-
skilled, but that new jobs are added. 
“The main negative impact of the 
advance of robots – and technology in 
general – has been felt in occupations 
where you can easily write a program 
for the tasks. Repetitive, mechanical 
tasks that follow simple rules, such 
as industrial jobs, accounting and 
customer service are examples of occ-
upations that have decreased. Mean -
while, more skilled occupations like 
system developer, programmer and 
robot operator have been added.” 
The increased use of robots has im -
proved productivity, which has led to 
lower prices for manufactured goods. 
This in turn leads to increased de -
mand and more employees to meet 
customers' growing desire to buy 
these cheaper goods. The advent of 
robots has also resulted in even safer 
and better working environments 
and greater precision in the work.Georg believes jobs that require 
creativity, analytical skills or a degree of 
judgement will not be outsourced to 
robots for a while. He also shows there 
are many types of jobs that do not re -
quire higher education, but that have 
still not been replaced by technology.
“Waiters and cleaners are roles 
that do not require much education 
but that are still difficult to automate, 
because they require skills and 
human and social interaction that are 
not easy to program.” 
Important to keep up  
with developments
Georg Graetz says companies must 
keep up with new technology and 
evaluate how it may be relevant to 
their business, whether this is about 
cost savings or staying ahead of com -
petitors. It is important to not be the 
last to adopt new, efficient technology. 
“But decisions to adopt new 
technologies and reorganise a busi -
ness are strategic, business-critical 
decisions that need to be thought 
through carefully.”
One benefit of new technology is 
that it is easier to put ideas into prac -
tice and start a business today. This 
does not require much capital and 
it is easy to reach out to customers 
through the internet. But for more 
people to take advantage of the 
opportunities we need a new vision 
of future educational strategies,” 
says Georg Graetz. 
“Those responsible must think 
about how education should be 
adapted to better prepare people for 
new technologies. Courses on how 
to start a business and develop new 
services, I believe, must have a greater 
role from the very start of schooling. 
We need to intensify the focus on 
skills that are less likely to be replaced 
by robots, such as analytical abilities, 
creativity and social interaction, and 
also the ability to combine these skills. 
Skilled jobs in research or the 
humanities are not as easy to reduce 
to computerised processes. 
So even though Andy Warhol 
wanted to be a machine, it is not 
likely that we will see actors, design -
ers, engineers, scientists or artists as 
robots in the near future.GEORG GRAETZ
Georg Graetz is an assistant 
professor at the Department 
of Economics, Uppsala Uni -
versity. In addition to “Robots 
at Work”, he has published 
a number of papers such as 
“Rise of the Machines: The 
Effects of Labor-Saving Inno -
vations on Jobs and Wages” 
(2015), and “A Question of 
Degree: The Effects of Degree 
Class on Labor Market Out -
comes” (2015), both together 
with Andy Feng.T
SOURCES: CB INSIGHT, 2015 & GARTNER, 2015×7
Global investment in AI-related 
start-ups has increased  
sevenfold since 2010.
20%
of all business texts, such as 
press releases, will be written 
by robots in 2018.310
MUSD was invested in start-ups 
related to artificial intelligence 
(AI) in 2015.
THOSE RESPONSIBLE 
MUST THINK ABOUT 
HOW EDUCATION 
SHOULD BE ADAPTED 
TO BETTER PREPARE 
PEOPLE FOR NEW 
TECHNOLOGIES.❝
Facts
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  19XXXXX
XXXXXXXX
Machines  
are moving into 
the cloud
The first cloud wave, with test environments or less  
business ­critical services has passed. Nowadays, business  
systems and important industrial services are moving out into 
the cloud. This is making our industry more efficient. OUTLOOK
20  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015OUTLOOK
ocally collected 
data on the 
health of a robot 
at a car factory 
has a low value. 
But once this in -
formation is instead aggregated with 
other robots in the chain, the manu -
facturer's own data and the owner's 
production plans, the information 
suddenly has a new value. 
“We want to take the data from 
machines and make predictive analysis: 
When does the machine need servic -
ing, what spares are required, does the 
production line need new robots, and 
what about insurance?” says Tarmo 
Pajunen, a Sustainability Ambassador 
and IoT manager at Cybercom. 
Gartner predicts that by 2018, six  
billion connected machines and systems  
will require ongoing maintenance. 
And by 2020, thirty-five billion things 
will be connected to the internet. As 
a result, companies will be forced to 
look at machines and systems like 
customers, and even treat them like 
customers. The data generated will 
be plucked up from each machine 
and processed centrally. In the cloud. 
“For this to work the data must 
be stored centrally, where there are 
databases, computing power and and 
application program interfaces (APIs) – 
and of course everything needs to be 
scalable, so we see a future of machine As machines become ever 
smarter, so their ability to com -
municate directly with people 
expands. Cybercom has there -
fore developed Machinebook 
– a social network for machines 
and people. This network can 
be used to enhance the effi -
ciency of industrial and digital 
services. The network content 
is produced by both people and 
machines. 
In practice, Machinebook can 
serve, for example, as an alarm 
when a machine encounters un -
expected problems. It updates 
its status on the social network, 
informing its contacts that it is 
unable to carry out its tasks, and 
explains why it is not working. 
In principle, any machine  
can be connected to Machine -
book. Cybercom carries out numerous 
projects worldwide to improve 
mobile network capacity and 
efficiency. We conducted a 
CAPEX/OPEX analysis to create 
efficiency improvements for 
the leading telecom operator in 
Bangladesh. Cybercom’s analysis 
identified high fuel consumption 
in 23% of installed generators, 
and excess capacity in 88% of 
new generators, which has a di -
rect impact on fuel consumption 
and CO² emissions. Cybercom 
recommended switching to a 
hybrid power supply solution, 
based on solar energy, saving 
the operator 
money and 
providing  
better sus -
tainability 
solutions. dialogue in the cloud,” says Tarmo. 
Tarmo is one of the people behind 
the Machinebook concept (see article 
below). By sharing and reacting to 
information (imagine Facebook’s 
thumb), the system learns who is 
inter ested in, for example, an alarm 
from a machine. The aim is for infor -
mation to move from dashboards in 
a control room to the right operator 
tasked day-to-day with making 
sure that production lines and large 
machinery are working properly. This 
makes the company less dependent 
on the skills and availability of an in -
dividual operator, and instead builds 
up shared expertise.
“In the future we hope that 
machines will be able to learn from 
people by listening to human conver -
sations,” says Tarmo. 
He argues that machines with 
locally stored data quickly become a 
problem since storing the infor -
mation locally means the common 
information becomes incomplete if a 
machine loses contact with the net -
work. And building up the cognitive 
intelligence to be able to understand 
what people are saying requires com -
puting power that cannot be housed 
in an individual machine. 
“You don’t want to have the intel -
ligence physically attached to the ma -
chine. It also uses unnecessary electrical 
power and local computer space.”
According to a survey of 770 
major European and North American 
companies conducted by Forrester Re -
search, more companies are currently 
evaluating a transfer of their business 
systems to the cloud. In two years, 
interest in the cloud grew from 12 to 
35%. Tarmo believes there is now a 
similar shift in IoT. This is because the 
options for local in-house operation 
are often too expensive and do not 
perform adequately to provide any 
benefit from the collective intelligence 
of all the connected machines. One 
consequence is that IBM has increased 
the pace of IoT functionality in its 
public cloud. 
“Connected machines themselves 
are becoming more the norm. The 
real benefit occurs when this is done 
in a smart way, thinking about how 
to improve processes or save money 
by using all this data,” says Tarmo.YOU DON’T WANT 
THE INTELLIGENCE 
ATTACHED TO THE 
MACHINE. IT USES TOO 
MUCH ELECTRCITY 
AND LOCAL COMPUT -
ER SPACE.❝Social net ­
works  
for machines 
and humansTelecoms  
and solar  
energy in 
Bangladesh
Tarmo Pajunen 
Sustainability  
Ambassador  
and IoT manager,  
Cybercom2018
95%47%
202050% of the fastest growing  
companies will have more  
intelligent machines  
than employees. 
of all cloud-related security  
issues will be due to mistakes  
in manual handling by  
the customer in 2020. of all connected devices  
in 2020 will be able  
to request their  
own support. 
Autonomous software agents, 
without human supervision,  
will participate in 5% of all  
financial transactions. 
SOURCE: GARTNER, TOP STRATEGIC PREDICTIONS FOR 2016 AND BEYOND
CaseExplosion of connected machines
FactsL
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  21     
In a rapidly changing world, we are a 
reliable and trustworthy business partner 
that understands our clients’ businesses 
and business models. We can be a partner  
throughout the entire lifecycle of a project.  
Our advisory services create the foundation  
of a business relationship. Thanks to 
our knowledge of the opportunities and 
challenges of digitalisation we can put the right solutions into practice. Through 
our cloud services we can optimise data 
storage and ensure excellent service 24/7. 
Our experience in developing systems for 
strong new business models, with a focus 
on innovation and sustainability, allows 
us to work with clients to facilitate their 
delivery of the transformative solutions 
required in the 21st century.
How 
Cybercom 
creates value 
in societyTHE CONNECTED
WORLD
22  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015THE CONNECTED
WORLD
ybercom offers business 
consulting with a deep 
understanding of the 
situation of our clients. 
By combining technical 
expertise and sound 
business insight, we offer innovative and 
sustainable solutions. We achieve this based 
on our extensive knowledge of how society 
is changing in a connected world, combined 
with our capacity and ability to implement 
technological solutions based on the individual 
situations of different organisations. 
We work with advisory offerings through 
iterative and agile business development that 
does not require the investment of large sums, 
and instead conduct concept development in 
small steps, testing our way forward, evaluating 
and validating every move taken. This requires 
different types of initiative, depending on the 
position of the client in their digital infrastruc -
ture and expertise. At an early stage, the first 
step is to ask how to best take advantage of 
the opportunities provided by digitalisation, 
what the company’s current situation looks like, 
and what are the most strategic steps forward 
in order to benefit from these new opportuni -
ties; why investment should be made to con -
nect a product or service, or to change the way 
of communicating with clients. For example, 
a simple first step could be to make material 
available on the internet, providing opportuni -
ties for increased interactivity and transparency, 
with both customers and employees becoming 
an integral part of business development. 
It is possible, for example, to provide digital 
customer services more simply than people 
believe, by launching an app. This provides a 
much better opportunity for an organisation 
to achieve its goals. After an initial review, and 
once the first measures have been implement -
ed, the aim is to create new business models. 
In fact, it is rare that a company’s offering is its 
product but, rather, it is the solution to a prob -
lem experienced by the end user. Shifting from 
a product to a service, or to a service combined with a strategy for digitalisation, most often 
opens up major opportunities. 
Something that distinguishes Cybercom 
from many other companies is that we look 
at the whole lifecycle of a service. This has 
proven highly successful, and Cybercom is 
now growing rapidly thanks to our ability 
to connect the client's business value while 
delivering a technology-neutral platform and 
implementation support, even in organisations 
that do not have an interest in technology. We 
also help clients to maintain and manage their 
systems effectively, such as in our own cloud 
solution, or by using third-party solutions. 
With Cybercom, the realisation of a new 
business model is not just an assumption, but 
a natural part of the company's development 
in a connected world. 
We have packaged Cybercom’s expertise 
and experience into four areas where  
we believe we create the most value for 
our clients: 
SECURE CONNECTIVITY
Cybercom is laying the foundation of a connect -
ed world with secure and reliable data process -
ing. The people who use these solutions need 
to be sure that their data is secure and is used in 
the way intended. Customer information must 
not get into the wrong hands. Despite this, 
security solutions are often given far too little 
priority. At Cybercom this is part of our DNA. 
MANAGED CLOUD 
Ensuring that a business can be in the cloud 
is almost a given these days, with smarter 
data storage. However, it is important this 
transition takes place in a strategic manner 
and that the opportunities it provides are 
utilised. Everything from new opportunities for 
collaboration to reduced costs for document 
and data management, and storage. We also provide secure and environmentally sustain -
able storage in a Nordic environment. 
INTERNET OF THINGS
Not only people, but also products and ma -
chines, are becoming connected at an expo -
nential pace. This creates entirely new oppor -
tunities, and also contributes to the challenges 
that need to be addressed. Cybercom has 
world-leading expertise when it comes to 
technology, trends, and how organisations 
can benefit from the opportunities of being 
connected. Together with our clients, through 
inspiring seminars, workshops for innovation 
and business case modelling, feasibility studies 
and prototypes, we create new services and 
new products that improve the efficiency of 
resources, and automate and open the door 
to new markets. 
DIGITALISATION
Our society is undergoing a transformation as 
significant as when we moved from agricul -
ture to industry. In our day-to-day lives it is 
easy to miss the enormous changes we are 
going through, and equally easy to fall behind 
if we focus on just doing the same things but 
marginally better. Cybercom has extensive 
experience in working with companies and 
organisations to help draw the best possible 
benefit from these opportunities. This is all 
about new thinking, creating the unexpected. 
In our conversations with clients, these four 
areas are often combined into a sustainable 
strategy that not only directly contributes 
to the immediate objectives of businesses 
and organisations, but also helps to deliver 
on global sustainability goals. Unlike many 
initiatives labelled as sustainable, strategic 
IT solutions provide an opportunity to bring 
together increased revenues, reduced costs, 
improved productivity, accelerated innovation 
and globally sustainable solutions.C
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  23A
XXXXX
XXXXXXXXSECURE
24  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015B
XXXXX
XXXXXXXXSECURE
Secure and connected
We always consider both the function and 
the security of our sol ution s. This improves 
security for both you and your customers.  
Rashin, Bengt, Lars, Sandra, Pär, Linda and Andreas are some of Cybercom's dedicated  
makers in security. Their view is clear: “Technological developments in recent years have 
brought new ways of consuming goods, services and information, which in turn places new 
demands on companies and organisations. Our solutions always take into account privacy 
and security, fundamentals that future operations must be based on.”
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  25     
THE CONNECTED
WORLD
We are driving development in the right  
direction and at an increased pace. We address 
our clients based on four strong societal trends 
that we monitor, and where we are experts  
from a connected perspective. Digitalisation affects not only the industrial charac -
teristics of products, but also what business models 
are relevant. Connected industry is largely about 
servicification. An important aspect for achieving 
success is that it often requires a fundamental shift 
in the perception of how to create value for the 
end customer. When a product is connected, allow -
ing the collection and analysis of data, it becomes 
possible to optimise and streamline its use from 
a management perspective. Individual contexts 
become connected contexts, where everything is 
optimised in systems rather than in an individual 
product. Key sustainability impacts include greater 
security and reduced energy consumption. To 
ensure its long-term competitiveness, industry 
must embrace sustainability and digitalisation, two 
keywords in future corporate positioning. With 
our advisory services, we help companies with 
feasibility studies and implementation to position 
their services in the connected world.  
➔ Read more about how we helped Heliospectra 
with smart greenhouse cultivation overleaf.Connected  
Industry
The path to a  
new tomorrow
26  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015     
THE CONNECTED
WORLD
The spread of digitalisation changes the rela -
tionship between companies and consumers. A 
company no longer sells a product, but rather a 
solution to a customer problem. What were previ -
ously associated services could tomorrow become 
more profitable than the product itself. Business 
models are changing, and companies need to 
adapt to existing trends such as social media and 
online commerce. But new trends like smart homes 
are also rapidly emerging. It is likely that different 
ecosystems of owners and participants will emerge. 
For example, security solutions installed in homes 
could become ecosystems that can also be carriers 
of connected services from other suppliers, such as 
health monitoring or secure transfer of single-use 
codes for locked doors for home deliveries. Ikea, 
Apple and Google are examples of strong players 
that may take control of ecosystems in smart 
homes. Cybercom is able to deliver the technical 
solutions for future ecosystems, and manage them 
in flexible cloud services.
➔ Read more about the connected consumer  
and our advisory testing together with SVP World -
wide overleaf. A hundred years ago there were only twelve 
cities in the world with a population greater than 
one million. Today there are over 500, and that 
number is growing. This brings greater problems 
of overload in areas such as energy, infrastruc -
ture and waste management. Digitalisation is 
quite simply essential to make better use of our 
resources, intelligently, sustainably, and in an 
ethically defensible way in urban life. Smart homes 
are the close perspective, and many smart homes 
create the building blocks of a smart city, with 
even more efficient functions. The city becomes 
a device, able to control how it uses energy most 
efficiently, to avoid traffic jams or manage electric 
driverless cars that communicate with each other 
and with their surroundings. All this will also affect 
corporate business models and the relationships 
between the customer and industry, which the city 
must embrace and become a part of. We have an 
important role to play in this as an enabler, with the 
combination of our understanding of the connect -
ed world and our technical expertise.
➔ Read more about how we supported the Elec -
triCity research project in Gothenburg overleaf. Society faces a huge challenge in the expectations 
of its citizens for digitalisation, apps, communica -
tion in many different channels, paperless forms, 
and the ability to easily interact with the communi -
ty. This places completely new demands on public 
authorities in terms of mind-set and the building 
of systems, not only for ease of use, but also for 
security, identity management, sustainability and 
compliance, which must all be managed from a 
totally new perspective. One important trend is the 
aging population, with a rising dependency ratio. 
Should we use digitalised solutions such as health 
monitoring and automation? This is an interdiscipli -
nary challenge with ethical, technological, political, 
economic, and business perspectives brought to 
the fore, and as advisors we must be able to handle 
every aspect. 
➔ Read more about Cybercom’s ventures in 
electronic identification and Suomi.fi, which will be 
the new portal for all governmental authorities in 
Finland, overleaf. Connected  
CityConnected  
ConsumerConnected  
Citizen
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  27THE CONNECTED
WORLD
A portal for all  
government services
aking public sector services digital 
is one of the most important devel -
opment projects in today's society. 
Transparency, accessibility and security are 
the foundation of the national IT project in 
Finland, in which Cybercom has a key role. 
The aim is to gather together public and 
private services, making it easier for citizens to 
manage their affairs. The project also includes 
an identification service for which Cybercom 
has developed a framework for secure iden -
tification. The system’s rights management 
permits automatic identification of individuals 
authorised to handle information on behalf of 
others. 
“All the data and essential public services 
will now be available in one place with one 
login at Suomi.fi,” says Timo Laaksonen, 
head of the Media and Public business unit at 
Cybercom Finland. Filing a tax return, voting 
or exercising other rights and obligations will 
be simple and easy using the portal. It will also 
be possible to link in private services, such as 
health and electricity consumption.
Improved security, faster processing, less risk 
for error and reduced crime rates are major 
factors in the project, as is sustainability.  
The system is expected to generate major  
environmental benefits 
through electronic docu -
ment processing, thus elimi -
nating the costs of printing, 
delivery and storage of 
documents. wedish start-up company Helio -
spectra develops intelligent lighting 
technology for greenhouse cultiva -
tion. By using a specific lighting combination 
for each species, growers are able to fine-tune 
appearance, taste and growth, and thus en -
hance quality and reduce waste in production. 
At times when there is strong natural sunlight, 
Heliospectra’s LED lamps can be wirelessly 
powered down, and then be powered back up 
in cloudy weather. This is a big step in terms 
of sustainability performance compared with 
existing greenhouse lighting .
Cybercom has conducted a number of pilot 
studies, including a project to investigate how 
sensors can be used to measure light frequency, 
light strength, temperature and humidity close 
to the plants. This makes it possible to dynam -
ically control each lamp to accommodate the 
illuminated plants’ specific needs, and to opti -
mise the frequency and light level. Cybercom 
has also developed a solution to capture 3D 
imaging of the plants to allow growth compari -
son under differing light conditions. 
Staffan Hillberg, CEO Heliospectra: 
“We have worked with Cybercom on 
several projects. They are innovative and think 
outside the box, and I appreciate that they get 
us to think in new ways.” 
Heliospectra has won 
several accolades, including 
the WWF’s Climate Solver 
award for its unique lighting 
technology.Smart greenhouses  
offer efficient cultivationThe world's most  
advanced sewing machine
VP Worldwide is the world's largest 
manufacturer of sewing machines 
for the consumer market, and 
specialises in the design, manufacture and dis -
tribution of innovative consumer machines for 
sewing and embroidery, as well as accessories 
and software. The company’s most advanced 
high-end sewing machines are manufac -
tured at the plant in Huskvarna, in southern 
Sweden. 
When SVP Worldwide decided to equip 
its most advanced sewing machine, the 
Husqvarna Viking Designer Epic, with internet 
connectivity, it needed a reliable partner 
with extensive experience in the design and 
implementation of solutions for the Internet of 
Things. SVP Worldwide chose Cybercom as its 
connectivity partner, and the collaboration be -
gan with several cross-functional workshops. 
Cybercom supported SVP by defining 
the online functionality and architecture. 
Cybercom was also responsible for implemen -
tation of the IoT system, which consists of a 
back-end solution, a cross-platform mobile 
application and a communications module 
inside the machine.
SVP Worldwide launched the Husqvarna 
Viking Designer Epic in October 2015, with 
internet connectivity and 
ease of use as two of its key 
functions. The launch was 
a success, and the online 
features have contributed to 
its sales achievements.Online functionality made the sewing 
machine a sales success.Half the energy consumption with  
intelligent lighting technology.Large savings and a better overview  
of the Finnish public sector.Connected Citizen Connected Industry Connected Consumer
M S S
28  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015THE CONNECTED
WORLD
ogether with others, including the 
City of Gothenburg, Cybercom is 
developing the ElectriCity project 
– an exciting collaboration in which science 
and the public sector are developing new 
solutions for the sustainable public transport 
of tomorrow. ElectriCity is an arena for the 
testing of new products and services in public 
transport, intended to act as a source of inspi -
ration for future city development. The new 
number 55 bus route is operated using quiet, A journey into the future 
of public transportemission-free buses that pick up passengers 
inside the terminal stations and are powered 
by renewable electricity. 
Together with its partners, Cybercom has 
developed the project’s IT environment. The IT 
environment provides users of public transport 
with access to entirely new services and infor -
mation from the vehicles. During an innova -
tion competition held in 2015, it was possible 
to download data from the entire western 
traffic region so that participating teams could 
build applications to further improve public 
transport. The system also includes plans for 
a car pool and a bicycle pool. ElectriCity has 
won awards including The European Solar 
Prize 2015 in the Transport and Mobility cat -
egory. The motivation was 
“Exemplary supply of public 
transport with renewable 
energy as part of a cooper -
ation between city, industry 
and science”. Gothenburg’s ElectriCity project is  
developing public transport using  
renewable energy.Connected City
T
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  29EMPLOYEES
Our ability to attract 
and retain skilled 
employees is closely 
associated with the 
company's power of 
innovation and our 
capacity to offer excit ­
ing projects that mean 
something to wider 
society. Our goal is 
for every employee to 
have more skills when 
they leave us than 
when they joined us. ybercom’s focus during the 
year has been on diversity 
management, skills devel -
opment and internal career 
paths. Our stance is that each 
employee should have more expertise when 
they leave us than when they joined us, and 
they should have had fun along the way. 
Employee experience
As we demand more experiences in our private 
lives, thanks to digitalisation and connectivity, 
so we come to expect the same in the work -
place. Tailored development and a personal 
connection to our careers are becoming  
increasingly important. Cybercom works  
actively to improve the employee experi -
ence on many levels. Skills development, the 
working environment, meritocracy and good 
development opportunities are important 
elements at work, and are regularly provided 
within the framework of training opportunities 
and improvement initiatives. One of the key 
elements of the employee experience is to 
offer co-workers enjoyable, challenging and 
important assignments in which they have an 
opportunity to develop. 
Diversity and equality
Convinced that greater diversity is a critical 
success factor, Cybercom has worked for 
many years to expand the diversity of its 
employees. Today, a large percentage of 
Cybercom's employees have an international 
background, and we are working to enhance this through initiatives such as participation in 
projects like LinkedIn’s Welcome Talent  
(see page 33). Our voice in the community 
is heard in many ways, and we have been 
invited by companies and organisations to join 
important conversations. During a previous 
visit to Sweden, UN Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon was elected to visit Cybercom as a 
result of our work with labour migration. We 
have welcomed interns for a number of years, 
and over the winter we employed a refugee 
from Syria. 
Gender equality is an important part of 
diversity. Cybercom’s long-term goal is to 
equalise the proportion of men and women 
among overall employees and in manage -
ment. The proportion of female employees 
in the company at the end of 2015 was 17 % 
(17). We are now setting our long-term goal at 
30 %. In 2015, the AllBright Foundation rec -
ognised us as best in our industry (technology) 
with regard to the proportion of women in 
leadership positions, with 36 % women in the 
senior leadership team. (AllBright, March 2015 
“Done reducing: time for competence”). 
Strong leadership
Strengthening competitiveness requires 
professional leaders. Cybercom’s manage -
ment has evolved significantly in recent years, 
largely thanks to a strong focus on leadership 
and training. In our Cybercom People Voice 
employee satisfaction survey, 75 % of employ -
ees rate the management as 4 or 5. In 2015, 
this leadership rating formed a component C
30  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015EMPLOYEES
l Sweden 63% 
l Poland 17% 
l Finland 16%
l India, 2% 
l Singapore 1% 
l Denmark 1%
l Female 17%
l Male 83%Gender distribution, employeesNumber of employees by countryof performance pay for managers, as a clear 
marker of the importance of good leadership. 
Supply of skills
During the year, Cybercom launched its Boost -
ing Your Development skills programme. This 
programme is rooted in each individual taking 
personal responsibility for their development, 
and a key component is training on assign -
ment with clients alongside senior colleagues. 
We invite and challenge our employees to 
prepare for future opportunities and expand 
their capabilities. We provide Innovation 
Zones where employees can develop between 
assignments, such as by taking part in assign -ments that are not time critical and that allow 
for learning along the way. 
Personal development, or helping to 
train someone else, means that we have to 
welcome a new way of thinking about how 
a career is formed. By offering a range of 
possibilities, careers can move around, go up, 
go down, jump forward and go around again. 
Modern career development looks more like a 
climbing wall than a ladder. We have identified 
a number of potential development paths that 
a consultant can choose, and within each path 
there are a number of areas for development, 
within which employees can choose to broad -
en their knowledge in new areas or enhance 
their specialist knowledge in a specific area. 
Activity-based offices
If anything, our physical environment will 
become even more important in future. Cyber -
com already has several activity-based offices, 
and these are constantly being developed 
with the idea that our environment should be 
playful and fun in order to inspire innovation 
and development. 
We believe it is critical that our jobs should 
provide energy so that employees have the 
dynamism and strength to do things in their 
free time that develop them. We offer our 
employees many opportunities for leisure 
activities. Our CyberFri programme sets aside 
money each year so that employees can apply 
for funding for shared activities, such as exer -
cising, running races, or starting a photo club 
or a cultural organisation.OUR GOAL IS TO PROVIDE  
ALL EMPLOYEES WITH  
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ONGOING 
DEVELOPMENT IN ORDER  
TO ACHIEVE THEIR FULL  
POTENTIAL AND OUR  
FULL POTENTIAL.❝
Charlotte Siversson 
Sustainability Ambassador  
and HR Partner, Cybercom
l Female 36%
l Male 64%Gender distribution, senior  
management team
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  31EMPLOYEES
EMPLOYEES IN NUMBERS
Percentage of employees with  
a university degree90%
Average experience11 YEARS
Average length of employment5 YEARS
Average age38 YEARS
Average sick leave2.2%
Percentage of employees covered  
by collective bargaining agreements77%Hello World! 
promotes digital 
creativity
Universeum in Gothenburg houses science 
exhibitions, technology experiments, aquar -
iums, and a lot of rainforest. Using a variety 
of initiatives and exhibits, Universeum actively 
strives to develop the curiosity of children and 
young people in science and technology. When 
they faced the challenge of developing a new 
and attractive solution for their website they 
contacted Cybercom. The objective 
was to make the site an integral part 
of the Universeum experience, and to 
capture the interest of young people 
both before and after they visit the 
10,000 square-metre science centre. 
In line with Universeum’s goal of 
making knowledge available and of raising 
awareness that inspires young people to learn 
more about technology, Cybercom chose to 
develop a visually appealing and responsive 
site, built using open-source code, using 
image-rich content to reflect the social media 
experiences of young people. The new site has 
been very well received since its launch, and 
was recently named best tourism website 2016 
by Internetworld.
Read more at  
www.universeum.sePrize­winning 
website for  
Universeum 
Hello World! is a new non-profit organisation 
with the purpose of promoting digital creativity in 
children and young people. Cybercom is one of 
the main sponsors of this association, which aims 
to educate 10,000 young people by 2020. Op -
erations concentrate on running camps during 
school holidays and at weekends, where children 
and young people meet and help each other us -
ing a virtual mentoring platform and are 
coached by experienced programmers. 
The association's goal is for Sweden 
to have sufficient IT skills in the future 
in order to secure competitiveness, by 
making digital creativity easily access-
ible to all young people regardless of 
their prior knowledge.
The main idea is that knowledge of program -
ming develops creativity and logical thinking. 
and participants are also able to apply and devel -
op their maths skills and practice their English. 
Hello World! engages with Swedish business and 
industry, universities, foundations, the public sec -
tor and other non-profit organisations in order 
to collaboratively make the activities available to 
children and young people across the country. 
Read more at  
www.helloworld.se
32  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015EMPLOYEES
LinkedIn has launched an initiative 
called Welcome Talent, which is intend -
ed to assist asylum seekers and new 
arrivals to find internships in Sweden. 
It contributes to rapid and improved 
integration, and allows businesses to 
grow using skills that are in short supply 
in Sweden. Programmers are the most 
common profession in Stockholm, and 
demand is increasing every day. A skills 
shortage of 60,000 IT professionals is 
expected by 2020, and the competition 
for talent is already very intense. Mean -
while, the IT world speaks a universal 
language, without borders between 
countries, cultures, genders, social back -
grounds, ages or religions. 
The greatest benefit that business 
can offer in integrating newcomers is to 
welcome them into our companies. This 
is an important element in being able 
to address the large flow of refugees. 
We are taking our responsibility at 
Cybercom, and we 
would encourage 
more companies to do 
the same – it enriches 
us and helps us to find 
new talent.Welcome  
Talent
Our regular employee survey, Cybercom 
People Voice, is an important tool to 
measure how our workers feel about 
their employee experience, their em -
ployer and their situation. 
The 2015 survey shows a high value 
for employee engagement, of 66% 
compared with the industry average 
of 59%. Cybercom’s leadership index 
has increased from 69% to 75% in one 
year, and is significantly higher than the 
industry index of 63%. 
In total, over 80% of employees took 
part in this year’s survey. People 
Voice
201330
2226
1483%17%20%
33%
80%67%
2634
2014 2015Composition of Cybercom 
Average number of training hoursl MALE 
l MALEl FEMALE
l FEMALE276
696
1491
75
210
7
2Other employees Managers Board of directors
<30
30–50
>50<30
30–50
>50<30
30–50
>50AGE AGE AGE NUMBER NUMBER NUMBER
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  33A
XXXXX
XXXXXXXX
More with less
Connectivity creates smarter  
products that require fewer resources.  
This means a cleaner world. 
Right now, Mattias Allring is on parental leave. Normally he works as a consultant and 
business developer at Cybercom in Gothenburg. “One of our key areas of focus is 
long-term sustainability. As an advisor, I have a great opportunity to make a  
difference by influencing our clients, and thus their users and customers. We help  
our clients to create more sustainable solutions by achieving cost savings, lower  
energy consumption and reduced resource consumption.”CLEAN
34  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015B
XXXXX
XXXXXXXXCLEAN
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  35CORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY
Ethics, security  
and open borders 
ccording to the Human Rights 
Watch World Report 2015, 
which describes the risk of 
human rights violations in 
different countries, there 
are risks in the United Arab Emirates (Dubai), 
including restrictions on free expression and 
association. The risks in India and Singapore 
include those related to discrimination based 
on gender, cast (India) or sexual orientation. 
We maintain awareness of this as we have a 
presence in these countries. 
Our actions
We make use of the Business Anti-Corruption 
Portal, developed by a number of European 
governments and a practical tool to help 
companies avoid and combat corruption, 
thereby creating a better business climate. The 
portal suggests that bribery and corruption are 
widespread in India, although efforts are being 
made to combat this. Poland still has a cor -
ruption problem among companies, although 
it is said that the risk levels have decreased in 
recent years. Events in the Nordic countries 
have also shown that risks must be constantly 
highlighted and countered. Transparency is 
important. 
Since Cybercom requires that the organisa -
tion be imbued with high ethical standards, 
our employees must, from 2014, complete an 
online course on anti-corruption. The training is based on our code of business ethics 
and conduct, and includes various possible 
dilemmas to consider. The training has been 
completed by 626 employees. The course has 
received very positive feedback from partici -
pants, and there is substantial commitment to 
the issues. Cybercom has not experienced any 
cases of corruption or discrimination in 2015. 
Cybercom's code of conduct is based on 
the ten principles of the UN Global Compact 
on human rights, labour, the environment 
and anti-corruption. All employees review the 
code upon recruitment. The code was adapted 
in 2012 to also apply to suppliers. During the 
year we continued our efforts to get all our 
partners and suppliers to sign our code of 
conduct and to monitor compliance with the 
code. The company's partner consultants and 
suppliers receive the code appended to the 
agreements they sign. 
Information security
For Cybercom, information security means 
our ability to ensure the necessary confiden -
tiality, integrity and availability of our internal 
systems and information, and the systems and 
information of our clients. Cybercom’s systems 
and clients’ systems should be managed in a 
safe manner, and the effect of any security in -
cidents should not risk serious damage to our 
own business or the business of our clients. 
We have worked systematically with infor -High ethical standards should permeate our business 
and our operations. Our actions are governed by our  
code of conduct in all countries in which we operate,  
and business ethics are a standing item on the agenda  
of the leadership team. mation security for many years. The starting 
point is our information security policy issued 
by management, which is reviewed and 
verified annually. Work on information security 
is planned, implemented and monitored 
by a designated security group with clear 
descriptions of responsibilities and mandates. 
The security group works with the principle of 
distributed responsibility. Cybercom Sweden's 
Chief Security Officer (CSO) has overall re -
sponsibility for the planning, implementation 
and monitoring. 
The actual work on information security is 
then divided into five different areas: overall 
information security; work related to HR; work 
related to premises and physical security; work 
related to IS/IT; and work associated with the 
various management functions. Our CSO is 
directly responsible for the work in the two 
areas of overall information security and the 
management functions. 
Cybercom’s efforts to ensure information 
security are based on our information security 
guidelines. This work is monitored and evaluat -
ed through both internal and external audits. 
Client privacy
A connected world makes it possible to 
gather, exchange, store and otherwise process 
information and personal data in new and in -
novative ways, and to a far greater extent than 
has previously been possible. Cybercom works 
actively to ensure compliance with the existing 
regulations for protection of privacy as well as 
the new, tougher rules that must be complied 
with by 2018 in accordance with the EU’s Data 
Protection Regulation. This work is conducted 
both internally and on assignment for clients. 
Cybercom has not experienced any losses of 
client data in 2015. A
36  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015CORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY
When the Swedish Institute organises management programmes in leadership  
development, sustainability and corporate responsibility for young and talented  
African company managers, it chooses Cybercom as its host company. For the sec -
ond year in a row, business leaders in ICT from Ethiopia, Rwanda and Zambia visited 
Cybercom in Stockholm to share our knowledge of, and experience in,  
sustainability issues, electronic identity solutions, eHealth and IT security.Host company for  
Swedish Institute 
A CONNECTED WORLD 
STRENGTHENS HUMANS, 
THE ENVIRONMENT, BUSI -
NESS AND SOCIETY . IT EN -
HANCES THE EXCHANGE OF 
KNOWLEDGE AND CREATES 
DEMOCRACIES IN OUR SO -
CIETY – AND IN COMMUNI -
TIES DISTANT FROM OURS.
ur sustainability work builds on 
the UN Global Compact, the 
17 Global Goals for Sustainable 
Development, and our code of business 
ethics and conduct. Cybercom should act 
responsibly in all countries and in all con -
texts in which we operate. Management 
has defined our responsibility and leads 
the work. The focus is on sustainable 
business, engaged employees and a high 
level of ethics. Alongside their regular 
assignments, a team of annually selected 
Sustainability Ambassadors works 
together with our Head of Communica -
tions, Kristina Cato, to extend knowledge 
about this internally and drive sustainabil -
ity work operationally in the company's 
various regions. Associated annual goals 
and projects are adopted together with 
leadership in ongoing dialogue. ❝
We support the activities of SOS Children's 
Villages in Rwanda to train teachers in 
subject knowledge, teaching and com -
puter skills. Cybercom is a knowledge 
company with international assignments, 
and as such we want to contribute to 
knowledge development in a coun -
try where we have business projects. 
Education is the foundation for a child's 
intellectual, emotional, social and physi -
cal development. It is essential for being 
released from poverty. Cybercom has 
developed mobile networks for an inter -Cybercom in Rwanda
national operator in Rwanda, and now 
children use these networks to search for 
information for their school work. 
Borderless knowledge sharing
When CEO Niklas Flyborg and our 
Sustainability Ambassadors visited SOS 
Children’s Villages in Rwanda during the 
year, they inspected computer labs and 
school activities funded by Cybercom. 
Cybercom’s representatives also gave 
presentations about online security and 
e-identification at KLab (klab.rw), an inno -
vation zone for engineers and entrepre -
neurs. Opportunities were discussed with 
the Swedish embassy surrounding sup -
port for the process of digitalisation in the 
country. Meetings were held with Rwanda 
Online (rwandaonline.rw) and the director 
general of the national ID authority. On 
the agenda were national e-ID solutions. 
ICT is important for Rwanda’s economic 
development Vision 2020. We also went 
on a hike to see mountain gorillas in the 
Volcanoes National Park, led by local 
guides. The money from the hike goes to 
preserving endangered gorilla troops. O
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  37ir travel accounts for the 
largest portion of Cyber -
com's carbon dioxide emis -
sions, and we have there -
fore had a target to reduce 
emissions from air travel by 
at least five percent per sales krona between 
2011 and 2015. We are pleased and proud to 
announce that we achieved our target, after 
reducing our emissions from air travel by 56% 
since 2011, mainly through fewer long-haul 
flights. One reason that we have managed to 
reduce travel is that we invested in an IT-based 
communication tool with the aim of replacing 
non-essential physical meetings with videocon -
ferencing. This has produced good results, and 
in 2015 more than 57,792 videoconferences 
were held. Some other examples of measures 
taken to reduce our environmental impact are: •  Old IT equipment is sold for reuse or  
recycling. 
•  Printers are set to duplex printing, and  
employees are encouraged to work digitally. 
•  Waste is sorted at source in our offices.  
•  We buy renewable electricity in all countries 
except Poland.  
In addition to Cybercom’s quality assurance 
and ISO 9001 certification, we are also work -
ing on ISO 14001 environmental certification. Cybercom’s greatest potential lies in developing  
offerings that can contribute to sustainable  
development, but of course we also work actively 
to reduce our own environmental impact.Environmental 
efforts
0.00.20.40.60.8
2011 2012 2013 2014 201502004006008001 000Tonnes CO2 Kg CO2/SEKm
l Carbon dioxide emissions   l Carbon dioxide emissions/salesCarbon dioxide emissions from air travelAThe focus at the certified offices is to train 
personnel through a web-based course from 
Eco Educate. An environmental survey is con -
ducted every year, and forms the basis of the 
company’s environmental efforts. In conjunc -
tion with the survey we conduct a test called 
the Climate Account. The Climate Account is 
intended to raise people’s awareness of their 
own individual climate impact in their daily 
lives, and how they can reduce it.
WE STRIVE TO ACHIEVE A POSITIVE  
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT SO THAT OUR  
SOLUTIONS AND THE DIRECT IMPACT 
OF ALL OUR OPERATIONS  
ARE NET POSITIVE. ❝
Rashin Kabodvand 
Sustainability Ambassador 
and Consultant, Cybercom 57, 792
Number of virtual meetings 2015 (18,172 in 2014) ENVIRONMENTAL 
EFFORTS
38  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 
CODE OF CONDUCT
1. Comply with laws  
and regulations
All Cybercom employees are respon -
sible for acting in compliance with 
laws and regulations applicable to 
Cybercom’s operations and deliv -
eries. In the event of an individual 
issue demanding it, they will seek 
legal advice. Cybercom applies 
the Swedish Code of Corporate 
Governance. Cybercom presents 
and reports corporate information in 
compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations.
2. Human rights
Cybercom respects human rights as 
laid down in UN conventions. Every -
body in the organisation must show 
respect for the integrity and dignity 
of all people. Cybercom will not in 
any way contribute to the violation 
of human rights. 
3. Labour law and working  
conditions
Cybercom supports freedom of as -
sociation and the right to collective 
bargaining.
Cybercom does not permit child la -
bour. Cybercom applies the principle 
that a child is a person younger than 
15 years of age unless national leg -
islation states an older age, in which 
case the older age applies. Cybercom 
applies the definition of child labour 
as laid down by the International 
Labour Organisation (ILO).
Cybercom does not tolerate any 
forms of discrimination. All employ -
ees have equal rights and must never 
be subjected to unjust treatment 
due to gender, sexual orientation, 
ethnic origin, religion, beliefs, polit -ical affiliation or disability. All em -
ployees must show respect for each 
other and for Cybercom’s business 
partners and will take responsibility 
for combating discrimination. Cyber -
com works unabatedly to combat 
discrimination. This permeates the 
company’s policies and processes 
during, for example, recruitment, 
setting of wage rates, and skills 
enhancement. 
Cybercom offers salaries that com -
ply with the minimum wage, as laid 
down in national legislation, with 
correctly prepared employment con -
tracts. Cybercom also ensures that 
working hours are compliant with 
local legislation. Cybercom seeks to 
give all employees time for rest.
Cybercom shall not in any way 
utilise forced labour and will always 
ensure that the working relationship 
between employee and organisation 
is at the employee’s own free will.
4. Health and safety
Cybercom shall provide a healthy 
and safe workplace in compliance 
with internationally acknowledged 
standards. Cybercom works pro -
actively to prevent accidents and 
work-related illnesses. All employees 
are offered health and safety train -
ing when and if required.
5. Environment
Our aim is to minimise the compa -
ny’s negative environmental impact. 
Cybercom respects the precaution -
ary principle and seeks to actively 
contribute to reducing negative envi -
ronmental impact through respon -
sible measures and technological 
advancement. Cybercom always acts in compliance with laws and interna -
tionally recognised directives. 
6.  Corruption and other  
prohibited business practices
Cybercom complies with the Swed -
ish Anti-Corruption Institute’s Code 
of Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits 
in Business, and works actively to 
combat corruption and unethical 
practices. Employees must not give 
or receive gifts, benefits or bribes 
that constitute a breach of this code. 
Cybercom is politically independent 
and does not sponsor political 
organisations. Cybercom is opposed 
to any form of money laundering 
and has taken the relevant measures 
to prevent financial transactions that 
are of criminal intent.
7. Promote accurate disclosure 
in financial reports and other 
public communications
Cybercom shall be transparent and 
provide relevant information when 
so required. This means that the 
company shall always provide fair 
and correct information. Cybercom’s 
goal is for all communication to 
contribute to a stronger brand.
8. Properly use company assets 
and confidential information
All business decisions shall be made 
with the good of the company 
in mind. All consultants will be 
professional in their relationship 
with Cybercom and will not pursue 
competitive activities.
Client trust is of vital importance 
to Cybercom. All employees will 
treat client information in complete 
confidentiality. Information about Cybercom’s clients may only be used 
in the implementation of the project 
in question. This confidentiality re -
mains in force even after the project 
has been completed. Cybercom has 
clear guidelines for the handling of 
confidential information. 
9. Protect our clients’ and 
partners’ confidential and 
patented information
Cybercom requires all employees to 
sign a confidentiality agreement in 
accordance with Cybercom’s security 
policy. There are clear rules for the 
handling of, and access to, material 
belonging to Cybercom. 
10. Take a professional pride in 
the consultancy role
Freedom with accountability and 
focus on the individual are important 
contributory factors in Cybercom 
being able to attract highly skilled 
staff. Cybercom seeks to offer all 
employees the opportunity for per -
sonal and professional development. 
A workplace that is open, creative 
and flexible sets the course for being 
able to offer clients professional and 
attractive products and services.
 
To sum up, Cybercom shall always 
conduct itself ethically in its dealings 
with all its stakeholders. Cybercom 
shall be characterised by profes -
sionalism and integrity. Cybercom’s 
code of conduct is available in full at 
www.cybercom.com. Cybercom’s code of business ethics and conduct is based on the 
UN Global Compact and its principles on human rights, labour, 
the environment and anti ­corruption. The code was introduced 
in 2004 and has over the years been adapted to the world we 
live in. Cybercom’s board reviews the code annually. In 2012,  
a code was also drawn up for Cybercom’s suppliers to sign.Code of  
conduct in  
brief
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  39A
XXXXX
XXXXXXXXCLOSE
40  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015B
XXXXX
XXXXXXXX
Tejaswee Shah is a software engineer, and Gabriel Ibanez works as a project manager. 
Both have joined Cybercom during the past two years. We asked them why they joined 
the company:  “We wanted to become the makers of tomorrow. We have the ambition 
to use connectivity to build smart solutions that will change the world and decrease the 
distance between countries, businesses and people.”Thought approaching action 
As the world shrinks, more ideas become reality, 
technology becomes available and more  
people are given opportunities.  CLOSE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  41CHAIRMAN’S  
COMMENT
CE Group has been a 
committed shareholder in 
Cybercom since 2003, and 
during that time we have 
had, and continue to have, 
a strong long-term belief in 
Cybercom as a company. As I have expressed 
previously, our clients say we have tremen -
dously talented employees, and this makes 
me proud. But if we are to make a difference 
compared to our competitors, it is important 
to challenge ourselves to become the compa -
ny we are aiming for. 
We believe it will be easier to achieve our 
goals in an unlisted environment, and we 
therefore made an offer for Cybercom in 
2015, together with Nicolas Hassbjer, Tequity 
AB. The offer was accepted by more than 
96% of shareholders, and we therefore delist -
ed the company in December. We believe that 
Cybercom, its management and its employees 
will be able to develop better and more long-
term in an unlisted environment. 
JCE Group and Tequity are now active in 
our ownership role, and we work to support 
Cybercom and its management in efforts to 
safeguard the company's future opportunities. 
As we see it, this is about corporate responsi -
bility – taking long-term responsibility for how 
we impact our environment. Our values as 
owners are entrepreneurship, professionalism 
and dedication. It is important to always act 
with professionalism; to make decisions while 
keeping an eye on a resilient horizon and 
based on respect for the individual and how 
our decisions affect society and the environ -
ment, in the short term and in the future. We 
are convinced this creates greater economic 
value for Cybercom, and therefore also for us, 
our employees and our clients. 
Cybercom is a modern and innovative The right  
path forward
company. Although its operations do not have 
much direct impact on the environment, we 
have a unique opportunity to contribute to a 
more sustainable world through the solutions 
and innovations we provide to our clients. 
Connectivity creates great opportunities that 
you can read about here in our sustainability 
report, and we realise these opportunities for 
clients in many parts of the world. In concrete 
terms, these can be solutions for future auton -
omous cars, industrial robots that make the 
working environment safer, digitalisation of 
government services to make things easier for 
citizens while achieving efficiency gains, waste 
management systems in European cities, or 
developing the best tourism website of the 
year – Universeum.se. 
Cybercom helps its clients to drive business 
transformation, deliver competitive differenti -
ation, and improve the customer experience. 
We are involved in developing public services 
for the connected citizen, secure accessibility 
for the connected consumer, energy efficient 
and communicating machines for connected 
industry, and smart infrastructure solutions for 
the connected city. This is where Cybercom 
brings value, and where there is fundamental 
demand and large market potential. 
Our goal is to constantly improve ourselves 
in order to create profitable growth. Cybercom 
will become even more client-oriented, agile 
and focused. The company’s assets are its em -
ployees, our talented consultants. I am proud 
of our knowledge base. Together we make a 
difference.  
Hampus Ericsson   
CEO and Chairman, JCE Group  
Main shareholder and Chairman,  
Cybercom Group
CONNECTIVITY CREATES  
GREAT OPPORTUNITIES,  
AND WE REALISE THESE IN  
A CONNECTED WORLD IN  
ORDER TO CREATE INCREASED  
LONG-TERM VALUE.❝J
42  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE 
he general meeting of 
shareholders is the com -
pany’s supreme governing 
body. It is at the meeting 
that shareholders have the 
opportunity to exercise 
their influence. Shareholders wishing to at -
tend a general meeting must be registered as 
shareholders in the transcript or other copy of 
the entire share register, according to owner -
ship status, five weekdays before the meeting, 
and notify the company of their intent to 
participate not later than on the date specified 
in the notice to the general meeting. 
Board of directors
The board's work is conducted based on the 
requirements of the Swedish Companies Act, Corporate  
governance 
the Code and other rules and regulations 
applicable to the company. The board works 
according to annually adopted rules of proce -
dure and an annual schedule. The company’s 
CEO and CFO participate in board meetings. 
Other individuals from the executive team and 
group employees participate in board meet -
ings to present specific issues as needed. 
During the year the board has focused 
primarily on the company's strategy, business 
plan and budget, the company's financing, 
sector trends and the company's transfor -
mation to meet these, internal controls and 
review of large client tenders, and the buy-up 
bid from JCE Group and Tequity. 
The board monitors management perfor -
mance through monthly reports which include 
reports of financial results, key performance indicators, development of priority activities 
and so on. The board has also at several 
meetings received more detailed information 
on major change initiatives and various units 
within the group. 
The members of Cybercom’s board in 2015 
were Hampus Ericsson, Ulrika Dellby, Nicolas 
Hassbjer, Jan-Erik Karlsson, Katarina Kämpe, 
Philip Engström, Henrik Lundin, Maria Glatz 
and Torsten Södergren. 
Board work in committees
The board had two committees in 2015: 
the audit committee and the remuneration 
committee. The committees’ work is governed 
by the board’s rules of procedure. The board 
committees deal with the issues that fall with -
in their respective area, and submit reports 
and recommendations that form the basis for 
the board’s decisions. The committees have 
some decision-making mandate within the 
framework of the board’s directives. Minutes 
of meetings of the committees are sent to the 
board. The committees were eliminated in 
January 2016 following delisting.
CEO and executive team
The board appoints the president. The president 
and CEO leads the work of the executive team 
and makes decisions in consultation with the 
rest of the executive team. On December 31, 
2015 the executive team consisted of the presi -
dent and CEO, the group’s CFO, the company's 
head of communications, head of sales, head 
of HR, and the heads of the largest regions. 
The members of Cybercom’s executive team 
in 2015 were Niklas Flyborg, Ammar Adhami, 
Kristina Cato, Annika Nordlander, Veli-Matti 
Nurminen, Conny Karlsson, Marcin Siech, Bo 
Strömqvist, Johan Wallin, Cecilia Westerholm 
Beer and Camilla Öberg.¹Finance, Legal, Sales, HR, IS/IT, Communications
²Eliminated 31 Dec 2015 General meeting  
Shareholders 
Board
CEO and group  
managementNomination  
committee
Remuneration  
committee²
Group functions¹External auditors
Audit committee²
SubsidiariesT
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  43GRI INFORMATION
Stakeholder group Issues Dialogue Outcome
Clients Offer, quality, delivery, security man -
agement, privacy, business ethics, 
labour conditions, climate perfor -
mance, procurement proceduresClient survey, interviews Sales training, business system in the Swedish oper -
ations for quality, environment and data security 
that will be integrated throughout the group. 
The system is based on the established standards 
ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environment) and 
to some extent ISO 27001 (information security)
Employees Skills development, working envi -
ronment, corporate culture, diversity 
and equalityEmployee survey, interviews Training, management conferences, employee 
events/meetings on vision, values
Investors/shareholders Profitability, corporate responsibility, 
business ethicsAnnual general meeting, board work, 
interviews, investor meetingsCode of business conduct and ethics, sustainability 
report, corporate governance report
Suppliers Suppliers' environmental work Suppliers' code of conduct, procurement, 
negotiationsCompliance with code, sustainability focus
Trade unions Labour law, employment conditions, 
skills development, work environment, 
codetermination, board mattersWorkplace meetings, board meetings, 
interviews/surveysSupport in wage bargaining and negotiation of layoffsGRI Information
ialogue with stakeholders
Cybercom has identified 
its employees, clients, 
shareholders and unions as 
its key stakeholders based 
on how much they are 
affected by or affect Cybercom. 
In 2013 and early 2014 we conducted a 
number of interviews and surveys with employ -ees in Sweden and Finland, with clients from 
different sectors, with representatives of various 
shareholders and with union representatives. 
The aim was to identify the main issues for Cy -
bercom based on the sustainability issues that 
most affect and are affected by our activities 
and where we can make the biggest difference. 
Cybercom's employees can comment and 
ask questions to management through the employee survey and through contacts with 
our sustainability ambassadors. Employees can 
also discuss and obtain information on health 
and safety issues or on business-related issues 
through the health and safety committees or 
through their immediate manager. See also 
forums and formats for dialogue in the table 
below. D
44  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Material sustainability aspects per GRI G4
Cybercom's sustainability aspect GRI G4 aspect
Business ethics -
Anti-corruption & anti-competitive 
behaviourAnti-corruption
Dedicated employees & employee 
developmentEmployment, occupational health 
& safety and training & education
Financial stability Economic performance
Sustainable products & services Products & services and product  
& service labelling
Sustainability in Cybercom's culture -
Information security -
Privacy issues related to IT Customer privacy
Diversity & equality Diversity & equal opportunity  
and non-discrimination
Smart use of resources Energy and emissions
The table shows which aspects of sustainability that Cybercom has assessed as material in terms 
of their impact on the company and how they are deemed relevant to our stakeholders and 
their relationship with the aspects of GRI G4. 
GRI INFORMATION
Below we outline supplementary information about the GRI indicators 
we report and the methods, assumptions, and conversion factors used 
to calculate them.
External assurance
Our sustainability report has not been subject to external independent as -
surance. We regularly evaluate the need for external assurance, but have 
not currently taken any decision to change the existing methodology.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Percentage trained in anti ­corruption 2015
Board 100%
Group management 100%
Other employees 54%
The table shows the percentage of the board, group management and other employees that 
have received anti-corruption training.ECONOMICS 
SEKk 2015 2014 2013
Generated direct economic 
value
Revenues 1,259,598 1,262,887 1,195,135
Distributed direct economic value
Employee benefits -782,933 -824,303 -793,840
Other external expenses -408,590 -345,921 -314,732
Charitable donations -575 -521 -142
EBITDA 67,500 92,142 86,421
Investment activities -23,873 -26,373 -26,199
Net finance income/expense -2,621 -2,490 -6,904
Dividends 0 -9,022 0
Corporation tax paid by country1
Denmark 0 0 -35
El Salvador 0 0 -51
Finland -925 -3,567 -752
India -573 -1,637 -774
Italy -1 0 0
Korea -809 -123 0
Paraguay 0 0 -440
Poland -1,755 -472 68
Rwanda 0 -1,350 -1,048
Senegal 0 -4,775 -7,227
Singapore 185 24 -33
Sweden -12-319 -160
Taiwan -121 -94 0
Tanzania -802 -582 -2,283
Chad -546 -383 0
Economic value retained 35,658 40,979 40,583
The table shows Cybercom's generated direct economic value, and how this is distributed 
between different stakeholder groups. In 2015, Cybercom employees have also worked 1,221 
hours pro bono on the "Technology for children and young people" project together with 
Universeum and Hello World!. Read more about this work on page 32.
1 In countries where the company has paid withholding tax during the year, these amounts have 
been included in the amount of tax paid.  
2In Sweden, loss carry-forwards from previous years have been used.
PAYING TAX WHERE WE DO BUSINESS IS A GIVEN FOR US, AS IS REPORTING IT.  
THIS IS ABOUT TRANSPARENCY AND CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIAL AND  
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN THE COUNTRIES WHERE WE DO BUSINESS. ❝Camilla Öberg 
CFO, Cybercom
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  45GRI INFORMATION
2015 2014 2013
Composition of the companyEmployees  
(number)Percentage 
femaleEmployees  
(number)Percentage 
femaleEmployees  
(number)Percentage 
female
Board of directors 9  33% 9 22% 9 11%
Under 30 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
30 - 50 7 43% 7 29% 6 17%
Over 50 2 0% 2 0% 3 0%
Managers 97 20% 80 29% 96 25%
Under 30 1 0% 0 0% n/a  
30 - 50 75 17% 64 30% n/a  
Over 50 21 29% 16 25% n/a  
Other employees 1,121 17% 1226 16% 1,171 16%
Under 30 276 18% 334 19% n/a  
30 - 50 696 15% 763 14% n/a  
Over 50 149 21% 129 19% n/a  
The table shows the composition of the company broken down by staff category and reported by age category and gender.2015 2014 2013
Employees by countryEmployees  
(number)Percentage 
femaleEmployees  
(number)Percentage 
femaleEmployees  
(number)Percentage 
female
Sweden 765 18% 825 19% 794 19%
Finland 193 10% 250 11% 244 11%
Poland 209 16% 167 17% 134 13%
India 28 25% 31 29% 48 17%
Singapore 13 8% 19 11% 23 9%
Denmark 10 10% 15 7% 24 13%
Total number of employees 1,218 17% 1,307 17% 1,267 16%
The table shows the number of employees broken down by country and the percentage of female employees.EMPLOYEES 
Key figures and indicators for the number of employees relate to December 31 for each year.
Total number of employees at  
Cybercom on Dec 312015 2014 2013
Employees  
(number)Percentage 
femaleEmployees  
(number)Percentage 
femaleEmployees  
(number)Percentage 
female
Number of permanent employees 1,200 17% 1,287 17% 1,260 n/a
- Of which full-time 1,200 17% 1,238 16% 1,199 n/a
- Of which part-time 0 0% 52 37% 61 n/a
Number of temporary employees 18 28% 20 15% 7 n/a
Total number of employees 1,218 17% 1,307 17% 1,267 16%
The table shows the number of employees broken down by employment category and gender. For 2015, we have changed the reporting of part-time employees. We previously reported this item as 
employees who have voluntarily reduced their working hours for temporary periods. From 2015 we report this item as employees with part-time contracts.
46  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Collective bargaining agreements 2015 2014 2013
Percentage of employees covered  
by collective bargaining agreements 77% 80% 81%
The table shows the percentage of employees at Cybercom covered by collective bargaining 
agreements.
Development reviews 2015 2014 2013
Percentage of employees given development review
Female 89% 83% n/a
Male 81% 83% n/a
All employees 83% 83% 81%
The table shows the number of employees who have completed development reviews during 
each year. Our aim is that all employees should have at least one formal development review per 
year. Those who have not completed a review are primarily new employees during the year.
Sick leave 2015 2014 2013
Percentage of sick leave for each country
Sweden 2.6% 2.3% 1.9%
Finland 1.5% 2.4% 1.7%
Poland 1.6% 1.8% 5.6%
India 2.4% 2.6% 2.1%
Singapore 0.1% 3.0% 4.6%
Denmark 0.0% 0.1% 0.1%
Average Cybercom 2.2% 2.4% 2.0%
The table shows sick leave as a percentage broken down by country. In 2015 no work-related 
injuries or accidents were reported.
Training hours 2015 2014 2013
Female 34 26 14
Male 26 22 30
All employees 27 22 27
The table shows the average number of training hours broken down by gender.GRI INFORMATION
ENVIRONMENT
Energy
We annually review the electricity consumption at our offices and in our 
own data centres. Cybercom buys renewable electricity in all countries 
in which we operate, except Poland. To convert energy from MWh to 
GJ, use the conversion factor of 3.6. 
Electricity consumption 2015 2014 2013
Electricity (kWh) 2,229,593 2,610,366 2,436,669
Electricity intensity (kWh/SEKm) 1,770 2,067 2,039
The table shows electricity consumption of offices and data centres, and electricity intensity.
Greenhouse gas emissions
We measure and annually monitor our greenhouse gas emissions from 
employee air travel. We have a target for our greenhouse gas emissions 
from air travel related to the metric of greenhouse gas emissions per 
unit of sales. The base year for the target is 2011 and the target extends 
until 2015. 
Greenhouse gas emissions are reported directly by our travel agents 
in each country. For our operations in Singapore, greenhouse gas 
emissions are calculated based on distance travelled, reported to us 
by a travel agent. We do not make our own conversions from other 
greenhouse gases to CO² and therefore have no overall value for global 
warming potential (GWP). We do not use a radiative forcing index (RFI) 
for emissions from air travel. 
Carbon dioxide emissions 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Carbon dioxide emissions 
from air travel (tonnes of CO2) 343 640 599 451 903
Carbon dioxide emissions in 
relation to sales (tonnes of 
CO2/ SEKm) 0.27 0.5 0.51 0.34 0.61
The table shows greenhouse gas emissions from air travel and greenhouse gas emissions in 
relation to sales.2015 2014 2013
Staff turnoverEmployees 
(number)Percentage 
femaleEmployees 
(number)Percentage 
femaleEmployees 
(number)Percentage 
female
New recruitment during the year
Under 30 101 12% 170 16% n/a n/a
30 - 50 133 18% 151 20% n/a n/a
Over 50 3 0% 11 18% n/a n/a
Total number of new recruits 237 15% 332 18% 243 n/a
Percentage of new recruits 19% 25% 19%
People who left during the year
Under 30 65 11% 75 12% n/a n/a
30 - 50 228 18% 174 14% n/a n/a
Over 50 39 23% 30 23% n/a n/a
Total number of departures 332 17% 279 15% 312 n/a
Percentage who ended employment 27% 21% 25%
The table shows the number of people who joined and left Cybercom broken down by age and gender.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  47GRI INFORMATION
General standard disclosures Pages/remarks Global Compact Principle
G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability P 4-5
G4-3 The name of the organisation P 0
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services P 26-27
G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters Stockholm
G4-6 Countries where the organisation has significant operations P 7
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form P 50
G4-8 Markets served P 24-27
G4-9 Scale of the organisation P 7, 11, 45
G4-10 Total number of employees P 46
G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements P 47 Principle 3
G4-12 Organisation's supply chain P 22-25
G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period P 5
G4-14 Whether the precautionary approach is addressed P 39 Principle 7
G4-15 Externally developed initiatives to which the organisation subscribes P 0-1, 2-3, 4, 38-39
G4-16 Memberships of associations P 32
G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements P 0
G4-18 Process for defining the report content P 10, 44-45
G4-19 Material aspects identified P 10, 45
G4-20 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary within the organisation P 0
G4-21 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organisation P 0
G4-22 Effect of restatements of information provided in previous reports -
G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods P 46
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation P 44
G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders P 44
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement P 44
G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded P 44
G4-28 Reporting period P 0
G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Spring 2015
G4-30 Reporting cycle P 0
G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report P 49
G4-32 In accordance option & GRI content index P 0, 48-49
G4-33 External assurance p 45
G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation P 43
G4-56 Organisation’s values codes of conduct etc P 39 Principle 10GRI Index  
The following list makes reference to the GRI indicators that Cybercom has chosen to report and to the ten principles of the Global Compact.
48  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015GRI INFORMATION
General standard disclosures Pages Global Compact Principle
DMA Economic performance P 4-5, 11
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed P 45
DMA Employment P 11, 30-31
G4-LA1 Employee turnover P 47
DMA Occupational health & safety P 11, 30-31
G4-LA6 Absenteeism & work-related injury P 47
DMA Training & education P 11, 30-31
G4-LA9 Employee training P 33, 47
G4-LA11 Development reviews P 47
DMA Diversity and equal opportunity P 11, 30-31 Principle 6
G4-LA12 Composition of organisation P 46
DMA Non-discrimination P 36-37 Principles 1, 2, 4, 5 & 6
G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination P 36
DMA Anti-corruption P 36-37 Principle 10
G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption P 36
DMA Customer privacy P 36-37 Principle 1
G4-PR8 Number of losses of customer data P 36
DMA Energy P 11, 38 Principle 8
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation P 47
G4-EN5 Energy intensity P 47
DMA Emissions P 11, 38 Principle 8
G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions P 47
G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity P 47
DMA Products & services P 1, 4-5, 11 Principle 9
G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services P 9, 11, 14-21, 26-29
DMA Product and service labelling P 7, 11
G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction P 6
For more information about this report and our sustainability work, please contact Kristina Cato, kristina.cato@cybercom.com
Cybercom Group AB was acquired in December 2015 by Cybercom Holding AB (owner of 96.6% of all shares and votes on 31 December 2015). 
Consolidated financial statements for Cybercom Group have therefore not been prepared, since this is included in the consolidated accounts for 
Cybercom Holding. In order to provide a fair picture of the operations in this report, all information for the full-year relates to the Cybercom Group 
group of companies, while information related to the balance sheet in this report refers to Cybercom Holding AB’s consolidated financial statement.
Production: Cybercom in cooperation with Narva. Photo: Mattias Bardå, Getty Images, Istock photos and Ideo. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet, Mölnlycke 2016.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  49Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting company, founded  
in Sweden in 1995. We enable companies, organisations and  
government agencies to benefit from the opportunities of 
the connected world and to enhance their competitiveness. 
Cybercom is today a privately owned company. In the 
years 1999–2015, Cybercom was listed on the Stockholm 
stock exchange. The company was delisted after the main 
shareholder, JCE Group AB, and Tequity AB made an offer 
that was accepted by over 90% of shareholders. 
We have more than 1,200 co ­workers in seven countries. 
Each individual employee is a win for us. It is our employees  
who drive forward Cybercom’s development. Our consult ­
ants, and the solutions we create, take us all the way from 
Östersund to the Caribbean islands, via the UN  
Global Compact, driverless cars, national electronic  
identification, connected sewing machines and elevators. 
The company’s areas of expertise span the entire eco­
system of communications services. 
Cybercom’s domestic market is the Nordic region, and in 
addition the company offers global delivery capacity for 
local and international business. 
Find out more at www.cybercom.com
www.cybercom.com
DENMARK · DUBAI · FINLAND · INDIA  
POLAND · SINGAPORE · SWEDENNARVA