Sustainability Report 
2012 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 1
Cybercom Sustainability Report 2012 
This is Cybercom’s third sustainability report. In this report, we present 
Cybercom’s sustainability work from the tenets of economic, environmental 
and social responsibility. The sustainability report is published in conjunction 
with the annual report for 2012 and is a complement to the annual report. 
The sustainability report is aimed specifically at those groups who are 
interested in Cybercom’s sustainability work, such as employees, clients, 
shareholders, interest groups and sustainability analysts.
Cybercom reports in accordance with GRI level C, version GR3.1. The 
sustainability report is structured as follows: We start with Cybercom’s vision 
and strategic objectives. This is followed by a description of Cybercom as a 
company and Cybercom’s sustainability work and the outcome of that work 
during the year. We also describe the management and governance of the 
sustainability work and stakeholder expectations of Cybercom.
Cybercom’s work is described and analysed against economic, environmental 
and social responsibility. This work is then summarised in the GRI table on 
pages 29-36, which presents the indicators with which Cybercom fully 
or partially complies. The sustainability report is also Cybercom’s annual 
communication about how the company lives up to and works with the UN 
Global Compact’s ten principles for responsible business.
 
For additional information please contact:
Niklas Flyborg  
President and CEO  
Cybercom Group  
+46 8 578 646 00  
info@cybercom.com
Address:  
Cybercom Group  
Lindhagensgatan 126  
Box 7574  
103 93 Stockholm, Sweden
 
Cybercom and UN Global Compact
Cybercom has joined the UN Global Compact in 2012,  
an initiative that promotes the company’s work on  
human rights, labour rights, the environment  
and anti-corruption.
CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 2
Content 
Cybercom’s sustainability vision and strategic objectives   . . . . . . . . 3
– CEO comment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
This is Cybercom   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Cybercom’s CSR work during the year   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Governance and management of CSR work   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
– CSR ambassadors   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Stakeholder expectations of Cybercom   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
– Stakeholder interview with Robur Swedbank   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Economic responsibility   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
– Donations to SOS Children’s Villages and  
 Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Environmental responsibility   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
– Cybercom’s internal environmental efforts   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
– Environmental certification   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
– Sustainable business   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Social responsibility   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Employees and the workplace   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
– Employee satisfaction survey   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
– Stakeholder interview with HR Cybercom Poland   . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
– Development and retention of expertise   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Clients and suppliers   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
– Cybercom’s responsibility in relation to clients   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
– Cybercom’s responsibility in relation to suppliers   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Community involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
– Collaboration with SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda   . . . . . . . . . 23
– Collaboration with Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation   . . . . 25
Appendix   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
GRI-Index   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Definitions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 3
CEO comment
As CEO of Cybercom, I see three important 
perspectives for us to achieve profitable growth: 
business, financial and sustainability  . Having a sus -
tainability perspective means that we take responsibility 
for how people and the environment are affected by 
the company’s activities. This means that sustainability 
is a long-term strategic issue at Cybercom. Our vision 
is to be the sustainable IT company and it is therefore 
important that we report and follow up Cybercom’s 
sustainability work. This sustainability report means we 
are doing this for the third consecutive year.
In our efforts to become the sustainable IT company, 
we take responsibility in our assignments as IT consult -
ants towards our clients, our employees, the commu -
nity and the environment as a whole. We evaluate our 
business before and during the work to ensure that we 
act ethically and in line with the UN Global Compact 
guidelines for sustainability and social responsibility. 
Cybercom has joined the UN Global Compact in 2012, 
an initiative that emphasises the company’s work on 
human rights, labour rights, the environment and 
anti-corruption.
Cybercom’s three strategic sustain -
ability objectives for 2012
Reducing our CO2 emissions caused by travel per 
revenue krona by 5 percent by 2015
A regular meeting at Cybercom should in the first instance be a digital meeting. We have therefore urged 
our employees to only travel when absolutely necessary 
and instead use our Lync corporate video conferencing 
system over the Internet. 
The effect has been immediate. The use of video-
conferencing, both internally and with clients, grew 
steadily in 2012. CO2 emissions associated with travel 
per revenue krona decreased by 44 percent compared 
with the year before, which is very gratifying.
Improving the outcome of our employee satisfac -
tion surveys
We implemented a number of measures in 2012 to 
improve the outcome of our employee satisfaction 
surveys and increase the commitment of our employ -
ees. 
We use frameworks for our employees and managers, 
we have launched our mission, our vision and our 
values for one Cybercom, and we have signed up to a 
challenge the business magazine Veckans Affärer with 
the aim to improve the gender balance in manage -
ment. In 2012 we ran our system of CSR ambassadors 
at Cybercom for the third year in a row. 
We will conduct a company-wide employee survey in 
2013 to measure the results of our efforts for more 
committed employees. 
Cybercom Poland was included in an employee survey 
conducted by HR consultant Aon Hewitt and Harvard 
Business Review Poland. Cybercom in Poland was 
named the country’s second-most popular workplace.Cybercom’s sustainability  
vision and strategic objectives
CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 4
Cybercom’s three strategic sustain -
ability objectives for 2013
In our sustainability work in 2013, we want to take 
financial, social and environmental responsibility that is 
focused on employees, clients and society. 
Employees: We want to enhance the commitment 
of our employees by providing them with a good 
working environment, good conditions and opportuni -
ties for positive development. We measure this using a 
group-wide employee satisfaction survey. 
Clients: We want to increase the amount of 
sustainable business with our clients .  We measure 
this by looking at what business contributes to operat -
ing efficiency, money saving or reduced environmental 
impact for our clients.
Society: We want to reduce our CO2 emissions as 
a result of travel per revenue krona by 5 percent 
by 2015 .  We measure this by adding up emissions 
caused by employee air travel and dividing it by the 
company’s sales.
Opportunities and challenges
The objectives we have set for 2013 reflect the op -
portunities and challenges we see ahead. The oppor -
tunities are to develop more sustainable business that 
helps our clients to save money and time, or reduces 
their environmental impact. Another opportunity and 
challenge is to increase the commitment of our core 
assets – our employees. With regard to environmental 
impact, it is a constant challenge to get the organisa -
tion to work smarter and travel less. Another challenge 
is to continuously inform employees and subcontrac -
tors about our code of conduct and ensure that the 
code is followed.
Please read more about our commitment and contin -
ued work in our sustainability report and feel free to 
offer suggestions on how we can further improve.Establishing a code of conduct for our suppliers
We developed a code of conduct for our suppliers and 
partners in 2012, and during the year we contacted 
them with requests and requirements for them to sign 
up to complying with our code of conduct. In 2013, 
we will monitor how well our subcontractors are 
complying with Cybercom’s code of conduct.
Sustainable solutions for our clients
Focus on the sustainability perspective as a company 
is about dealing with both risks and opportunities. In 
2012, we have worked proactively to develop sustain -
able solutions for our clients.
One example is what we call Green Connectivity, a 
value proposition that we have developed for our cli -
ents in the mobile industry. We assist network owners 
to become more environmentally friendly and reduce 
their energy costs by optimising energy consumption in 
their networks.
Another example is Flexible Learning on Demand 
(FLOD), which Cybercom implemented for Mediecenter 
Mälardalen, and which was nominated sustainable pro -
ject of the year by CIO magazine. Physical distribution 
and physical media for movies, articles etc are replaced 
with a digital solution.
We also develop digital solutions to replace paper 
records, systems for Web-based meetings to reduce 
travel, and various forms of Green IT such as server 
hosting.
To further increase our focus on sustainable business 
we will measure our success in creating sustainable 
business at Cybercom in 2013. We have therefore 
partly revised our sustainability objectives.
Niklas Flyborg, CEO Cybercom GroupCybercom’s sustainability  
vision and strategic objectivesCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 5
Cybercom is a consulting company offering services within Connected Engineering, 
Connectivity Management, Digital Solutions and Secure Connectivity.Cybercom is a consulting company operating in 
the market for IT services, and offers services in 
the entire ecosystem of communications –  
Connectivity  . Cybercom offers technical solutions that 
allow mobile phones, systems, equipment and people 
to communicate with each other. Cybercom’s service 
offering is divided into four areas:
•	 Connected	Engineering
•	 Connectivity	Management
•	 Digital	Solutions
•	 Secure	Connectivity
Within these four areas Cybercom provides consulting, 
strategy and advice, testing and quality assurance, 
security solutions, system development, systems 
integration, system management and hosting. Delivery 
is available both with local resources and with the 
assistance of global delivery capabilities. The following 
key IT trends are driving Cybercom’s development:
•	 The	connected	society	–	people,	organisations,	
companies, devices, machines and systems 
increasingly communicate with each other through 
Internet Protocol (IP).
•	 Increased	need	for	network	capacity	–	mobile	
and data network operators need to maximise 
utility and expand and upgrade their networks to 
address increasing demand.
•	 Corporate	delivery	models	–	companies	are	invest -
ing in online solutions and e-commerce services to 
reach their customers.
•	 Productisation	of	IT	–	IT	is	increasingly	becoming	
an industrialised service, increasingly cloud-based.
•	 Increased	proportion	of	offshore.
With 1,335 employees with extensive industry 
experience and business expertise, the company is 
able to offer strategic and technological expertise to 
companies in telecoms, industry, media, public sector, 
retail, and banking and finance. 
The industrial sector and the public sector are major 
buyers of IT services in the Nordic region. The telecom 
sector has been the dominant client sector for 
Cybercom for many years, but has declined relative to 
the other sectors as IT-based communication solutions 
become a major part of any business activity. The 
public sector has in recent years increased its purchases 
of IT services as government agencies and ministries 
increasingly use the Internet to provide information 
and communicate with the public. 
With operations in seven countries, Cybercom under -
takes assignments in most parts of the world. Cyber -
com works in close collaboration with its clients and 
can also offer global delivery capabilities. Cybercom’s 
operations have a strong platform in the Nordics, a presence in Eastern Europe and Asia, and sales offices 
in Dubai.
Cybercom is a growing company that has mainly 
expanded through acquisitions, from sales of approxi -
mately SEK 535 million in 2006 to SEK 1,340 million in 
2012. 
Contracts in the telecom segment make up the largest 
share of Cybercom’s sales, at 40 percent. The company 
was founded in 1995 and has been quoted on the 
NASDAQ OMX Stockholm exchange since 1999. For 
more information about Cybercom as a company, 
please refer to our annual report.
This is CybercomCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 6
Cybercom’s CSR work 
during the year
GOAL OUTCOME DEVELOPMENT
RAISING AWARENESS AND COMMIT -
MENT TO OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK:  
In order to increase internal awareness and 
commitment for our sustainability work, we 
have established CSR ambassadors at the 
company. Our CSR ambassadors work with 
CSR issues both internally and externally.CSR ambassadors and CSR managers have 
held talks internally across the organisation. 
Cybercom has been invited to give talks 
externally, such as in schools, and represen -
tatives of Cybercom have been interviewed 
about the company’s CSR work. This in turn 
has raised awareness of Cybercom’s work 
externally, and has improved commitment 
to sustainability issues internally.Cybercom has for the third consecutive year ap -
pointed CSR ambassadors who work internally 
and externally with CSR issues. The purpose of 
this is that the ambassadors will help develop 
Cybercom’s sustainability efforts and help to 
increase awareness of the company’s sustain-
ability efforts internally and externally.
ESTABLISHING OUR CODE OF CONDUCT 
WITH SUPPLIERS: Cybercom’s values, 
norms and principles are set out in the code 
of conduct introduced in 2004 and revised 
in 2010. In 2012, Cybercom also introduced 
a code of conduct for its suppliers and part -
ners, the “Suppliers Code of Conduct”. The 
code is appended to Cybercom’s subcon- subcon -
tractor  contracts. Cybercom has contacted existing and new 
suppliers and partners and asked them to 
sign the code.Monitoring will take place during 2013 to  
ensure suppliers and partners live up to the 
code.
ESTABLISHING FRAMEWORKS FOR 
EMPLOYEES AND MANAGERS: To further 
establish Cybercom’s vision and values,  
Cybercom has developed Employee Stand -
ards and Leadership Profile, frameworks that 
reflect Cybercom’s vision and values as the 
sustainable IT company.The frameworks were established and 
adopted by Cybercom’s executive team.In 2013, the frameworks will be implemented 
for employees and managers.
GOAL OUTCOME DEVELOPMENT
HOLDING MORE VIDEO CONFERENCES 
TO REDUCE TRAVEL:  Introduction of the 
Lync video conferencing system to increase 
the proportion of conferences over the 
Internet and reduce the proportion of confe -
rences that require travel.During 2012, more and more employees 
started to use Lync. Use increased by 50 
percent between May and October 2012. 
The number of business flights decreased 
by 66 percent compared to 2011 and the 
burden on society decreased. In 2013, the goal is to retain continued high 
Lync usage and further reduce air travel for 
business and therefore reduce the burden on 
society.GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 
ECONOMIC
ENVIRONMENTAL
GOAL OUTCOME DEVELOPMENT
REDUCING TRAVEL EMISSIONS IN  
RELATION TO SALES: 
In the long run, reduce travel emissions 
through the introduction of the Lync IT-
based conference system.CO2 emissions decreased in 2012 from 
0.605 kg per revenue krona to 0.338 kg per 
revenue krona.In 2013, the goal is to continue the positive 
trend by further reducing emissions resulting 
from travel.
INCREASING CYBERCOM’S POSI -
TIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT FOR 
CLIENTS: Identify services that can improve 
Cybercom’s positive environmental impact 
among clients.In 2012, Cybercom identified two new of -
ferings that provide sustainable business for 
clients. Through the Green Connectivity of -
fering, Cybercom helps network owners to 
become more energy efficient and reduce 
their energy costs. Business Effectiveness is 
about saving time and money, and reducing 
travel by introducing social intranets.Cybercom’s goal for 2013 is to increase the 
amount of sustainable business.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 7
Cybercom’s CSR work during
the year
GOAL OUTCOME DEVELOPMENT
IMPROVING EMPLOYEE PERCEPTION OF 
CYBERCOM THROUGHOUT THE GROUP:  
Implementing a group-wide employee sa -
tisfaction survey to capture how employees 
feel, develop and perceive Cybercom as a 
workplace in any country where we operate.Cybercom did not conduct a group-wide 
employee satisfaction survey in 2012. 
However, Cybercom Poland was included in 
an employee satisfaction survey conducted 
by HR consultant Aon Hewitt and Harvard 
Business Review, and was named the 
second-best workplace in Poland.In 2013, Cybercom intends to conduct a new 
group-wide employee survey and improve the 
outcome compared with the previous survey. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE
CLIENTS AND SUPPLIERS
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENTGOAL OUTCOME DEVELOPMENT
IMPROVING CLIENT SATISFACTION: 
Implementing a group-wide client satisfac -
tion survey to find out what clients think 
of Cybercom and what the company can 
improve in relation to them.Cybercom did not conduct a group-wide 
client satisfaction survey in 2012. Client 
feedback was assessed individually for 
completed projects.In 2013, Cybercom intends to conduct a new 
group-wide client satisfaction survey and 
improve the outcome compared with the 2011 
survey.
EXPANDING CYBERCOM’S SOCIAL RE -
SPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN:  To 
better secure good business ethics, integrity 
and data security throughout the chain, Cy -
bercom adopted a code of conduct in 2012 
for suppliers and partners, the Suppliers 
Code of Conduct.Cybercom has urged new and existing 
suppliers and partners to sign.Cybercom will in 2013 ensure that suppliers live 
up to the code.
GOAL OUTCOME DEVELOPMENT
IMPROVING CIRCUMSTANCES FOR 
CHILDREN IN SWEDEN:  Encouraging 
employees to acquire a payment card that 
Cybercom developed with the Swedish 
Childhood Cancer Foundation, where SEK 
135 per card and year goes to the founda -
tion. Encouraging employees to become 
involved with other initiatives such as cycling 
for childhood cancer.In 2012, the Swedish Childhood Cancer 
Foundation received SEK 69,000 through 
employees’ credit card purchases. This 
is less than in 2012 (75,000) due to a 
reduction in Cybercom employee numbers 
during the year. But Cybercom also raised 
SEK 10,000 through a competition aimed 
at students and young people. The total 
was therefore SEK 79,000 to the Swedish 
Childhood Cancer Foundation.Continuing to promote the card among our 
staff and initiating other fund-raising activities 
to increase the money raised for the Childhood 
Cancer Foundation.
IMPROVING CIRCUMSTANCES FOR 
CHILDREN IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES: 
Continued cooperation with SOS Children’s 
Villages.The Cybercom group continued to contribu -
te money to SOS Children’s Villages. In one 
voluntary initiative, 23 Cybercom employees 
ran a race in which everyone who passed 
the finishing line raised SEK 1,000 for SOS 
Children’s Villages.
In addition, Cybercom employees initiated 
a voluntary project to raise money for SOS 
Children’s Villages, called ADAM, A Dona -
tion A Month. Every month, 113 Cybercom 
employees donate the equivalent of one 
dollar from their salary to SOS Children’s 
Villages. 
In 2012, Cybercom was one of the 
companies that the secretary-general of 
SOS Children’s Villages listed as positive 
examples in the book “Affärsaktivisten” 
(the Business Activist).Continue cooperation with SOS Children’s 
Villages and inform employees about more ap -
proaches to support the children helped by SOS 
Children’s Villages.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 8
Cybercom’s sustainability work is led ulti -
mately by the company’s executive team and 
is governed primarily by the company’s codes 
of conduct for employees and suppliers .
Cybercom’s executive team  leads the company’s 
sustainability work. The work is coordinated by the 
CSR manager at the communications department and 
is run operationally in the company’s various business 
units.
Cybercom’s code of conduct was introduced in 2004 
and was updated in 2010, and the revised code was 
implemented in the organisation in 2011. It is included 
in the introduction package for new employees. In 
2012, the code was introduced and established among 
our suppliers through our Suppliers Code of Con -
duct. The code forms part of Cybercom’s new business 
contracts with suppliers and partners. Existing suppliers 
have also received the code on invoicing.
The code sets out the company’s social and environ -
mental values, norms, principles and the requirements 
and expectations we have of our employees and our 
subcontractors. The code covers ten different areas, 
including human rights, labour standards, environment 
and business ethics, including anti-corruption. The 
code is used as an aid to solving ethical dilemmas in 
the organisation with regard to issues of responsibility. 
The code complies with the UN Global Compact’s ten 
principles in these four areas.
The basis for the code’s contents includes our clients’ Governance and  
manage ment of CSR work
requirements and expectations regarding our sustain -
ability work. This includes minimising environmental 
impact. Furthermore, the code should address the 
dilemmas that Cybercom encounters in its daily activi -
ties. It is very important for employees and partners 
to know where Cybercom stands on issues such as 
workers’ rights, and desired behaviour in terms of 
ethics and morality in business.
In 2012, the executive team decided to develop 
Employee Standards  and Leadership Profile , 
frameworks for employees and managers that reflect 
the company’s vision and values as the sustainable IT 
company. These standards will be rolled out in 2013 
and provide instruments for governing the company’s 
sustainability work going forward.
Cybercom’s CSR ambassadors  in the organisation are 
another important part of Cybercom’s governance and 
management of CSR issues. The ambassadors work 
in close partnership with Cybercom’s communications 
department and management to bring into effect the 
guidelines and objectives Cybercom has established 
and to communicate these issues internally and 
externally.
A fourth tool for governance and management of 
Cybercom’s CSR work are the guidelines for sustain -
ability and social responsibility of the UN Global 
Compact .  This means that Cybercom as a company is 
committed to:
•	 Implementing	changes	in	activities	so	that	the	
UN Global Compact and its 10 principles in the 
areas of human rights, labour rights, environment 
and anti-corruption become part of Cybercom’s 
strategy, culture and daily operations, including 
subsidiaries and subcontractors.
•	 Advocating	and	promoting	the	UN	Global	
Compact and its ten principles. 
•	 Annually	measuring,	presenting	and	communicat -
ing Cybercom’s CSR work and how we work with 
the UN Global Compact’s principles.Cybercom’s sustainability work is led ultimately by the company’s 
executive team and is governed primarily by the company’s codes of 
conduct for employees and suppliers.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 9
Cybercom’s CSR ambassa -
dors
Cybercom has since 2010 had a programme of 
CSR ambassadors . Each year, all the employees 
in the company are invited to apply, and three 
are selected . They are given in-depth training in 
Cybercom’s CSR work and also visit Cybercom’s 
community engagement projects . 
Ambassadors play a key role in implementing and 
explaining Cybercom’s CSR work to colleagues, clients 
and other stakeholders. This implementation work 
includes the CSR ambassadors recounting Cybercom’s 
CSR work internally, including via our intranet and 
newsletters, as well as externally when Cybercom is 
invited to give talks about our CSR work. Ambassadors 
give lectures, blog in Cybercom’s newsroom on the 
Web and address the key CSR issues for internal and 
external discussion.
During the year, the focus of the CSR ambassadors has 
been the question of how Cybercom can spread the 
commitment to sustainability issues throughout the 
organisation and at the same time capture ideas from 
around the offices. The result is that in 2013 Cybercom 
will propose that all office managers take responsibility 
for, channel and measure the sustainability work in the 
organisation. The objective of this is to better utilise 
and implement sustainability initiatives throughout the 
organisation.
Some questions to CSR ambassador Salla Heinänen:
What have you achieved as a CSR 
ambassador at Cybercom?
Being an ambassador has meant several different 
things, ranging from giving presentations to manage -
ment teams and conveying and communicating within 
the company, to organising collections of toys and 
money for the SOS Children’s Village that Cybercom 
supports in Rwanda. As ambassadors we have blogged 
a lot about sustainability issues in our everyday work. 
But the project I’m most proud of is ADAM, A Dona -
tion A Month. We created a group-wide donation 
campaign to raise money for children, either for SOS 
Children’s Villages in the Nordic countries or for SOS 
Children’s Villages in developing countries. To make 
it easy for those who want to donate, a deduction is 
automatically made from their salary each month.
What have you learned in your role as 
a CSR ambassador?
The interest in CSR issues among employees at Cy -
bercom is greater than I thought. We have received a great response to donation campaigns, for example. 
People want to help.
What can be improved within CSR at 
Cybercom?
Everyone I talk to is very interested in our CSR work. 
I can see that more work needs to be done to make 
everyone in the company aware of our CSR work. 
So I think we could use CSR ambassadors in all the 
countries and at all the offices where Cybercom 
operates. This means that in Finland, for example, 
where we have several locations, we could organise 
nationwide events.Salla Heinänen, CSR ambassador, in Rwanda.
Governance and  
manage ment of CSR workCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 10
CSR-ambassador Salla Heinänen meets schoolchildren at SOS Children´s Village in Gikongoro, Rwanda.
Governance and  
manage ment of CSR workCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 11
Stakeholder expectations
Cybercom has 1,335 employees, 650 clients 
and over 3,800 shareholders . Dialogue and 
collaboration with these and other stake -
holders is an important part of our efforts to 
create sustainable value .
Cybercom has identified its key stakeholders as those 
on which Cybercom believes it has a substantial impact 
through its activities and those that have a major 
impact on Cybercom. This mutual interaction is an 
important factor for Cybercom’s ability to pursue and 
develop its business.
Cybercom has identified employees, clients, investors, 
suppliers, society and trade unions as its key stakehold -
ers. Stakeholder communication is continuous and is 
an integral part of operations. The table below shows 
how the company interacts with these stakeholders.
Our key sustainability issues
The key sustainability issues are identified through dia -
logue with the above stakeholders and in consultation 
with Cybercom’s steering committee for sustainability 
issues, which includes parts of the executive team.
In the company’s employee survey, employees point 
out the importance of skills development and clear 
career paths. From a CSR ambassador’s perspective 
an important issue is to find channels that direct the 
commitment that exists in various offices around the 
organisation. 
From the management perspective, the main question 
is how Cybercom can enhance employee commitment. 
This partly involves Cybercom’s goals, visions and work 
in CSR reflecting the company’s values (Innovation, 
Passion, Trust), and partly having frameworks and 
Stakeholder group Issues Dialouge Outcome
Employees Professional development, health and safety, 
company culture, organisation Employee survey Training, management 
conferences, meetings 
about vision and values
Clients Value proposition, quality, delivery, security 
management, integrityClient survey Sales training, security 
systems
Investors/shareholders Profitability, corporate responsibility AGM, board work, meetings Sustainability report, 
corporate governance 
report
Suppliers Environmental work of suppliers, 
creditworthinessSuppliers code of conduct, procurement, 
negotiationsCode compliance, 
sustainability focus 
Social/voluntary 
organisationsClimate issues, electronics waste, charity Meetings with charities, schools, 
companiesDonations to charities, 
presentations in schools
Unions Labour rights, terms of employment, 
professional development, health and 
safety, co-determination, board issuesWorkplace meetings, board meetings Support in salary nego -
tiations and termination 
negotiationstools for employees and managers that reflect “The 
Cybercom Way”. 
From a client perspective, it is important that employ -
ees live as Cybercom teaches. Connectivity - staying 
connected and resolving meetings with clients and 
colleagues through Internet conferences instead of 
travelling, and finding sustainable business solutions 
are the focus of our clients.
From an investor perspective, it is important that 
Cybercom’s sustainability work is measurable and can 
be demonstrated in a fair manner. Important issues are 
Cybercom’s clarity when it comes to business ethics 
and client confidentiality, as well as the company 
focusing more on developing sustainable business for 
our clients.
Cybercom has identified employees, clients, investors, suppliers, society and 
trade unions as its key stakeholders.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 12
Swedbank Robur is one of Cybercom’s 
shareholders . Daniel Paska is a sustainability 
analyst at Swedbank Robur and analyses 
Cybercom from a sustainability perspective . 
He sees opportunities for Cybercom to offer 
sustainable services and to assist clients with 
saving energy, paper, time and money, while 
the risks for IT companies are business ethics, 
data security, confidentiality and labour 
issues in developing countries .
What does sustainability mean for you 
as a shareholder?
It is important for us to be a responsible asset manager. 
Sustainability risks are part of the financial risks we 
examine when we analyse companies as investments 
for our funds. We also have sustainability funds, so 
sustainability is crucial in determining which companies 
the funds can invest in; we only invest in the best 
companies in each industry.  
What are the key sustainability issues 
for an IT consultant like Cybercom?
Sustainability risks are generally low in IT consulting 
compared with, for example, industrial companies. 
The risks we look at are related to working conditions 
in the company’s operations in developing countries, 
business ethics among clients and suppliers, and how 
client privacy and data security are assured in the 
systems IT consulting firms build for their clients.  
What are the main risks for Cybercom 
from a sustainability perspective?
Cybercom is a global company with operations in 
countries such as India. It is pertinent to examine busi -
ness ethics and labour rights issues. Does the company 
have clear rules and monitoring mechanisms? Are HR 
procedures common to the group, or are staff treated 
very differently in different countries?
Other risks we analyse are how the company handles 
client privacy and data security in the systems it builds 
for clients.  
What are the main opportunities for 
Cybercom from a sustainability per -
spective?
We see opportunities going forward in providing 
clients with sustainable solutions that save the client energy, reduce paper use, save time and money, and 
of course drive forward the business of the clients and 
Cybercom. It’s about obtaining leverage for clients 
from a sustainability perspective. Integrating sustain -
able solutions for clients improves Cybercom’s value 
proposition and so supports the company’s business.  
Where should Cybercom concentrate 
more from a sustainability perspective 
in future?
We would like to see clearer integration of the 
company’s sustainability benefits from a client perspec -
tive, with Cybercom weaving sustainability into its 
client offering.
Cybercom could also demonstrate more clearly how it 
works to minimise risks in terms of business ethics.  
Where do you see the opportunities 
for Cybercom to work on sustainability 
issues?
Cybercom’s sustainability work provides you with 
knowledge that you can use in your marketing and 
development of new products and services. Cybercom 
could develop and inform clients about the services 
that also contribute to reduced environmental impact, 
such as client server hosting.Stakeholder interview with Swedbank Robur
Daniel Paska, sustainability analyst at Swedbank Robur.
Stakeholder expectationsCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 13
Cybercom’s sustainability initiatives are 
significant to the company’s ability to attract 
clients, employees and investors . From a 
shareholder perspective, sustainability work 
helps to increase the value of the company  .
Cybercom is a listed company with the requirement 
from its owners to generate profitability through 
corporate responsibility, where the company acts in ac -
cordance with its Code of Conduct and the guidelines 
of the UN Global Compact. 
In 2012, the retained value in Cybercom was negative. 
The company has undergone organisational and 
structural change during the year, designed to create 
better conditions for profitability. Cybercom therefore 
divested its operations in China and discontinued 
operations in Romania. From a sustainability perspec -
tive, this reduces Cybercom’s risk exposure relating to 
working conditions and business ethics in countries 
with a higher risk in terms of these issues. 
Cybercom implemented a cost reduction programme 
whereby 88 employees will leave the company. During 
2012, Cybercom also conducted a rights issue of 
approximately SEK 126 million to strengthen its capital 
structure and create better conditions for achieving 
the company’s financial targets, including net debt and 
operating margin. 
Donations to SOS Children’s 
Villages and Swedish Child -
hood Cancer Foundation
In addition to the values Cybercom creates through its 
core business, Cybercom contributes economically to 
more sustainable development through the donations 
the company makes to the Swedish Childhood Cancer 
Foundation and SOS Children’s Villages.
Cybercom donates SEK 135 per payment card per 
year through its specially developed business payment 
card with the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation. 
Cybercom also donated money in 2012 for the number 
of participants in a Code for Life competition. Overall 
in 2012, this was more than SEK 79,000.
Cybercom donated around SEK 250,000 to the 
activities of SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda during 
2012. This replaces Christmas gifts to clients and staff. 
In addition, 113 employees have signed up to ADAM 
(A Donation A Month), a scheme that allows them 
to make a salary deduction each month to donate to 
SOS Childers’ Villages (see the section on ADAM). In 
addition, the company has contributed SEK 23,000 
from participation in a running race.kSEK 2012 2011 2010
Created value
Revenue 1,399,202 1,481,074 1,528,928
Distributed value
Employee benefits -892,433 -950,797 -989,669
Other external expenses -416,539 -464,839 -427,056
Depreciation, amortisation 
and impairment-29,857 -190,817 -50,677
Capital losses -11,792 - -
Net finance income/
expense-16,354 -19,058 -21,077
Tax -25,314 224 2,247
Retained value in 
Cybercom 
-53,087 
-144,213 
42,696Cybercom Group: Created and distributed direct 
economic value, 2010 – 2012Economic responibility
Name No of shares Holding %
JCE Group AB 69,826,450 38.70
Swedbank Robur Fonder 14,790,880 8.20
Didner & Gerge Aktiefond 8 373,895 4.64
Nordnet Pensionsförsäkring AB 5,880,351 3.26
SEB Life International Assurance 5,000,000 2.77
JCE Securities AB 4,726,160 2.62
SEB Enskilda 2,636,058 1.46
Fibonacci Asset Management 2,193,225 1.22
Sundman, Dag Olofsson 1,845,000 1.02
Second AP Fund 1,745,135 0.97
Total 117,017,154 64 .86
Other 63,422,341 35.14
Total shares 180,439,495 100 .00Largest shareholders per 31 December 2012CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 14
Cybercom is implementing a series of meas -
ures to reduce its environmental impact and 
to proactively help its clients reduce their 
environmental impact . In 2012 Cybercom 
reduced its CO2 emissions from air travel by 
44 percent per revenue krona, and Cybercom 
has developed new client offerings that 
reduce their environmental impact and 
conserve resources .  
Cybercom’s internal  
environmental efforts 
At Cybercom we continuously work to raise employ -
ees’ environmental awareness and integrate environ -
mental considerations into daily tasks. Cybercom’s 
business overall has a relatively low environmental 
impact. 
CO2 emissions from travel  are the most significant 
direct environmental impact at Cybercom. After that 
are consumption of office supplies and disposal of 
computers. Cybercom has investigated its employees’ 
business travel and concluded that air travel accounts 
for the bulk of CO2 emissions. If we compare emissions 
from air travel with emissions from electricity consump -
tion, flights account for approximately 70 percent of 
CO2 emissions while electricity consumption accounts 
for 30 percent.
In 2011, Cybercom introduced a target to reduce CO2 
emissions from flights per revenue krona by 5 percent 
by 2015 in order to reduce its environmental impact. In 
2012, emissions fell by 44 percent. 
This is partly because the group has introduced 
restrictions on travel. A regular meeting at Cybercom 
should in the first instance be a digital meeting. For 
this reason the company in 2012 introduced a system for online meetings in all offices using the IT- based 
communication tool Lync. The use of videoconferenc -
ing, both internally and with clients, increased by 50 
percent to approximately 300 video conferences a 
week, if we compare the average usage in May with 
October, November and December 2012.
To maintain the positive trend of reduced carbon 
dioxide emissions, Cybercom is retaining its target 
of continuing to reduce CO2 emissions from flights 
per revenue krona by 2015 .
In addition to Lync, Cybercom is conducting a system -
atic effort to reduce the group’s environmental impact. 
Some examples of actions taken are:
•	 Lights	switched	off	by	timer	after	business	hours.	
•	 Handling	of	old	IT	equipment	which,	when	
possible, is sold for reuse or otherwise goes to 
partners for recycling.
•	 Handling	of	discarded	electronic	products	that	are	
recycled when possible. 
•	 All	printers	are	set	by	default	to	duplex	printing,	
and employees are encouraged to avoid using 
hard copies as far as possible. 
•	 Recycling	of	paper	and	other	waste.		
•	 Procurement	of	products,	consumables	and	
services must, if possible, meet high environmental 
standards.
•	 Purchase	of	renewable	electricity.
•	 Cybercom	places	requirements	on	suppliers	of	of -
fice materials and computers. These suppliers must 
meet the environmental requirements of TCO 95 
and TCO 99, and the materials must be recyclable. 
2012 2011 Percentage change 
Carbon dioxide* 0.338 kg 0.605 kg -44%Carbon dioxide emissions from air travel in 
relation to the company’s salesEnvironmental responsibility
CO2 Emissions,  2012
Air Travel
70.2%Electric 
Power29.8%
As shown in the graph air transportation accounts for more  than 
70 per cent of the gr oup’s carbon dioxide emissions. 
(Figur es are excluding Singapor e and India.)Cyber com Gr oup
As shown in the graph, air travel accounts for approximately  
70 percent of the group’s carbon dioxide emissions.* Data excludes Cybercom’s joint venture in India. Employees in the 
joint venture use more or less no business air travel.  CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 15
Environmental certification
Cybercom is working with environmental certifica -
tion of the company’s activities in accordance with 
ISO14001. Cybercom is striving for all our businesses 
to eventually be certified, and work has begun. The 
Gothenburg office was the first part of Cybercom to 
be certified and this was achieved in 2008. In 2012, 
the work on this was at the same level as in 2011. 
The executive team is evaluating an extension of the 
certification in 2013.Energy Use by  Energy Source,  2012
Water, 
63.0%
Wind, 6.4%Nuclear Power ,
8.5%Oil, 0.2%
Natural Gas,
3.7%
Coal, 18.2%Cyber com Gr oup
CO2 Emissions by  Energy Source,  2012
Cyber com Gr oup
CO2 emissions, tonnes
050100150200169.0
0,0 0.021.1
0.0 0.0 1.3
Water Coal
Natural Gas
Wind
PowerNuclear OilPeatTotal energy use 2,777 MWhEnvironmental responsibilityCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 16
Sustainable business
In 2012, Cybercom has worked to identify 
and develop sustainable business that re -
duces our clients’ environmental impact, 
saving time and money  . The results so far are 
two new offerings, Green Connectivity and 
Business Effectiveness .
 
Green Connectivity is an offering that caters to clients 
in the mobile industry. Cybercom helps network own -
ers to reduce their energy costs by optimising energy 
consumption in the networks and optimising the mix 
of hydro, solar and wind power. Savings of around SEK 
20 million can be achieved through optimisation of 
some 100 sites in a network.
Business Effectiveness is an offering that is all about 
saving time and money for clients through the 
introduction of digital solutions. Cybercom develops 
for example a social intranet for a client in the real 
estate industry. The client is expected to make great 
savings from a more efficient way of working through 
the new intranet.
Some examples of areas where IT can improve 
efficiency and reduce the consumption of resources are 
industrial processes, traffic flow and indoor climate. 
Cybercom has, for example, developed a remote 
control system for elevators.
A generic name for this type of offering in the IT 
industry is Green IT. Green IT also includes more 
eco-friendly and power-efficient computers. Cybercom 
provides what is known as server hosting. This means 
that clients’ servers are run for them. Cybercom can 
carry out this work in a more energy efficient manner 
than if each individual client were to run their own 
servers. 
Furthermore, IT can replace physical products and 
activities with electronic information. One such 
example is the Flexible Learning on Demand (FLOD) that Cybercom implemented for Mediecenter in 
Mälardalen. FLOD was named sustainable project of 
the year by CIO magazine. Physical distribution and 
physical media for movies, articles etc are replaced with 
a digital solution.
In addition Cybercom can, by using the proper 
equipment, create the right environment for remote 
working, something that not only reduces physical 
journeys but also creates a more flexible workplace.
Cybercom has a well-tried offering of bundled services 
for government agencies, municipalities and county 
councils. Many of these services are designed specifi -
cally to reduce environmental impact by using services 
for remote meetings, meeting administration (paper -
less), sustainability reporting and compliance with 
environmental policies. If you would like to find out 
more about these services they are described in detail 
in Cybercom’s catalogue of services.
Cybercom’s infrastructure services also contribute 
greatly to the convenience of the citizen and make 
it easy to access services digitally and thereby reduce 
environmental impact.
In order to increase the focus of the organisation 
on sustainable business, we aim to increase the 
amount of sustainable business with our clients . 
We measure this by looking at what business contrib -
utes to operating efficiency, money saving or reduced 
environmental impact for our clients.
Environmental responsibilityCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 17
Social responsibility  
– Employees and the workplace
Employee satisfaction survey
Cybercom has implemented a number of 
measures in 2012 to improve the outcome of 
our employee surveys and increase the com -
mitment of our employees . This has already 
produced results in Poland . Cybercom in 
Poland was named the country’s second-best 
workplace in a national survey  .
The “Best Employers Program” survey was conducted 
by HR consulting firm Aon Hewitt in partnership with 
Harvard Business Review Poland. The survey identified 
the best employers, and studied how organisations 
can achieve a real competitive advantage through their 
employees and what is crucial for an organisation to 
be a good place to work. This year’s survey involved 90 
companies and over 50,000 employees. 
Cybercom Poland was the second-best workplace, 
and best workplace among IT companies in Poland. 
Cybercom will conduct the next group-wide employee 
survey in 2013. The goal is to enhance the commit -
ment of our employees.
In 2012, the company has focused on various measures 
to improve employee commitment in the future.
•	 We	have	developed	standards	for	our	employees	
and our managers, called Employee Standards and 
Leadership Profile, that reflect the company’s vision 
and values as the sustainable IT company. These 
will be presented in 2013.
•	 We	have	launched	our	mission,	our	vision	and	our	
values for one Cybercom at conferences, company 
meetings and other events. Cybercom’s mission is: “Boosting your performance in the connected 
world”. The company’s vision is: “We are our 
clients’ most trusted business partner in the 
connected world”. Cybercom’s three core values 
are: Innovation, Passion and Trust. 
•	 We	have	introduced	a	suggestion	box	on	the	
intranet where our employees make suggestions 
on how they want to improve Cybercom.
•	 We	have	signed	up	to	improving	the	gender	
balance in management, Veckans Affärer’s “30 
percent club” challenge. Joining the “30 percent 
club” means that Cybercom as a company should 
strive to have at least 30 percent of women in 
management. In early 2012, Cybercom had one 
woman and six men in the executive team. At the 
end of the year, the division was four women and 
seven men. 
•	 In	2012,	we	implemented	our	system	of	CSR	
ambassadors at Cybercom for the third consecu -
tive year. In addition to their regular work, three IT 
consultants were assigned to get to know about 
Cybercom’s sustainability work, develop it in col -
laboration with management and CSR managers, 
and communicate about the work internally and 
externally.
During 2012 Cybercom launched the company´s three values: Innovation, Passion, Trust.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 18
Marzena Tyrann is head of HR at Cybercom 
in Poland, which was named the second-best 
workplace in a nationwide survey in 2012, 
arranged by HR consulting firm Aon Hewitt 
and Harvard Business Review Poland .  
Cybercom in Poland stood out among 
our Cybercom offices with “Best 
Employer 2012”. What can other Cy -
bercom offices learn from you?
“Best Employer 2012” is a fantastic award to receive. 
This shows us that our employees believe in us and 
that we have created a great place to work. So what is 
the key to this success? Mainly it’s about living accord -
ing to our key values of Passion, Innovation and Trust. 
We try to be an open workplace. We listen to our 
employees’ needs and look after social benefits. We try 
to communicate frequently and provide information 
about changes that are underway.
We believe that our professional success is strongly 
related to our values. Our values are an integral part 
of the business and at the heart of any decision taken. 
We hire people with diverse backgrounds and skills, 
but with the passion and desire to develop. 
We strive to provide working conditions so that the 
work becomes a passion, not a duty. We strive to 
create an open culture-based environment built on 
trust and open communication that provides innovative 
ideas that revolutionise the IT market.  
Why were you named the second-best 
workplace in Poland?
It is first and foremost that we have committed and 
competent employees. We strive to create a culture 
of open and honest communication with respect and 
trust. We strive to create a good working environment 
with an open atmosphere. We support our employees 
so that they can focus on development and fulfilment. 
Our goal is to achieve a balance between our employ -
ees’ needs and the company’s business strategy.
It is also important that the management of the 
company can get involved and lead the employees 
individually and create a future vision for the company. 
Since the employees know the company’s goals well, 
they know how to help achieve these goals.
We promote efficiency and loyalty among our em -
ployees. This is why we created the Cybercom Prestige 
Club, to encourage employees who have worked more 
than 10,000 hours on a commercial project. Stakeholder interview with 
HR Cybercom in Poland 
Marzena Tyrann, HR Manager at Cybercom in Poland.
What have you done to achieve suc -
cess?
We support our employees’ commitment by providing 
the resources they need to accomplish their tasks. We 
believe that clear communication within the organisa -
tion is important for employees to know what they can 
expect and what is expected of them. An important 
part of engagement is about emotional attachment. 
It is therefore important to have good friends at 
work and to be supported both professionally and 
personally. We encourage this through our employees 
meeting both at work and in leisure time.
Each office organises events and outings that help the 
employees to get to know each other better. We offer 
our employees benefit packages through which they 
all have private health care insurance, opportunities to 
exercise, to learn foreign languages, and have support 
for further training and group insurance.Social responsibility  
– Employees and the workplaceCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 19
How do you want to develop Cybercom 
Poland as a workplace in the future?
To continue the development of Cybercom, we will fo -
cus on the following areas: the organisation, our teams 
and individuals. When it comes to each employee, it is 
about motivating and expanding their knowledge and 
getting them involved. To achieve this we will:
•	 Organise	technical	training	to	improve	skills.
•	 Develop	soft	skills	through	the	internal	Academy	
of Leadership programme.
•	 Develop	an	internal	programme	to	measure	
employee performance and reward the most active 
employees.
•	 Develop	English	skills	through	teaching.
•	 Participate	in	IT	conferences	and	events,	and	give	
employees the opportunity to make professional 
appearances.
•	 Hold	lectures	at	the	Universities	of	Warsaw	and	
Lodz.
Different groups at Cybercom must feel supported by 
the management working effectively with their projects 
and developing innovative solutions. Our communica -
tion between managers, team leaders and employees 
must be consistent and open. Policies and procedures 
should be clear and open, and employees should be 
informed of changes.
Our intranet is one tool for achieving this; another 
is our internal newsletter; and the third is our HR 
department, which supports our employees. Our TIP 
days (Trust, Innovation, and Passion) are another way 
to capture and talk about how we can develop.
Developing the workplace is also about being visible on 
the local IT market and maintaining a positive image of 
the company and the brand.
Cybercom Poland was chosen to be the second best place  
to work in a nationwide survey by HR consultant Aon Hewitt 
and Harward Business Review Poland.Social responsibility  
- Employees and the workplaceCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 20
Development and retention of expertise
Cybercom has solid knowledge assets that 
the company must continually develop to 
remain at the forefront of the IT industry  .  
In 2012, employees received on average 29 hours 
of training, compared with an average of 27 hours 
the year before. Training hours have been gradually 
increasing, which is a conscious effort to respond to 
the desire for professional development that employees 
expressed in the 2011 employee survey.
The increase occurred primarily in Poland and Sweden. 
Among other things, Cybercom has worked to develop 
its network of internal skills, internal networking 
among consultants where various experts teach each 
other and share knowledge. 
An important part of this is having structured methods 
to monitor the skills development of individual 
employees. Cybercom achieves this through annual 
performance reviews at all offices, where the manager 
and the employee draw up individual development 
plans and goals for the future year. 
In 2012, 84 percent of the employees had a per -
formance review, compared with an average of 76 
percent in the previous year. One explanation for not 
all employees having a performance review is that new 
employees began after the year’s reviews had taken 
place. +40%Training hours per emplo yee, 2010 – 2012
Cyber com Gr oup
No of 
hours
051015202530
2012 2011 201019
hours27
hours29
hours
Average training level of employees has increased by 7 percent.Social responsibility  
– Employees and the workplaceCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 21
Well-being of our employees
Employee well-being is of paramount importance to 
Cybercom and a prerequisite for us to be competitive 
and to grow our business. All employees must feel 
respected and relevant. No matter where in the world 
people work for Cybercom, they have the same rights. 
Through Cybercom’s Code of Conduct the company 
lays the foundation for the rights and opportunities 
that each employee has as a complement to applicable 
legislation. Cybercom has zero tolerance for discrimina -
tion or unethical behaviour towards a colleague or 
business partner. All employees must, regardless of 
where they operate, have access to a healthy and 
safe working environment. Where relevant, staff are 
trained in health and safety. In our code we also state 
that Cybercom does not participate in political parties 
or organisations, and does not participate in lobbying 
activities or support these financially. Employees have 
read Cybercom’s Code of Conduct and are trained in 
the code’s content.
Cybercom acts in accordance with the conventions 
and recommendations of the International Labour 
Organisation (ILO) and our remuneration exceeds 
minimum wage. The company’s remuneration must 
be competitive, as this is a very important factor in 
attracting and retaining skills. Cybercom supports the 
right to freedom of organisation and association.  
Eighty-one percent of the employees are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements. In Sweden, around 
half of the employees are union members. For the 
entire group it is a smaller proportion. Cybercom works actively to ensure men and women 
have equal opportunity to be home with their children. 
This applies to both care of sick children and parental 
leave. In Sweden the company has created economic 
opportunities for employees to take parental leave, 
with a parental supplement. In 2012, 89 people 
claimed parental supplement in Sweden.
Country Sweden Denmark India Poland Finland Singapore Total
Female employees 31 Dec 167 3 7 13 32 3 225
Male employees 31 Dec 690 29 51 79 229 32 1,110
Total employees 31 Dec 857 32 58 92 261 35 1,335Cybercom Group: Workforce by country, 20122012 2011
Percentage of female employees in 
management 31 Dec27% N/A
Percentage of employees covered by collective 
bargaining agreements 31 Dec81% 73%
Sick leave (as percentage of hours worked) 2% 2,4%
Training hours per employee 29 h 27 hCybercom Group: employees 2011-2012   
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Women 377 327 328 288 225
Men 1,605 1,491 1,399 1,276 1,110
Total 1,982 1,818 1,727 1,564 1,335Cybercom Group: Total number of employees by 
gender, 2008–2012Social responsibility  
– Employees and the workplaceCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 22
Social responsibility  
– Clients and suppliers
Cybercom has a social responsibility towards 
its clients and suppliers . This includes business 
ethics, integrity and data security  . It is also 
about helping clients to achieve sustainable 
business .  
To better secure good business ethics, privacy and data 
security throughout the chain, Cybercom has in 2012 
introduced a code of conduct for its suppliers and 
partners, the “Suppliers Code of Conduct”. Cybercom 
appends the code to new contracts with suppliers and 
partners. The code has also been provided to existing 
suppliers and partners. In 2013, Cybercom will ensure 
that suppliers and partners are complying with the 
code.
Being responsible in relation to our clients includes 
observing what the clients’ and Cybercom’s products 
and services are used for. For example, if Cybercom is 
invited to do business in an undemocratic country or 
a country with a high risk of human rights violations, 
Cybercom evaluates the risk of making the situation 
worse for the people of the country. As part of the 
evaluation, dilemma discussions are held with the 
relevant functions within Cybercom. One example 
of when Cybercom has evaluated a client before 
conducting business and has then decided to col -
laborate is in the construction of a mobile network in 
Rwanda. Cybercom feels that the project contributes 
to improved Internet and mobile telephony access, two 
vital tools in creating a more transparent society and 
for people to be able to practice their human rights 
and rights such as freedom of expression.  
In many cases, the Internet and mobile phones are 
crucial in pursuing business activities and being able 
to support oneself. Being involved in providing these 
services enables Cybercom to contribute to economic 
development. In other cases, Cybercom has found the 
opposite and has chosen to turn down assignments.Cybercom is obligated to do all it can to combat 
criminality within the framework of its business 
activities. Developing products that fulfil client security 
requirements help reduce the risk of them being 
used in irregularities. This is not only an obligation 
towards our clients but also to society in general and 
its citizens. Examples of services where this is a central 
issue are the securing and certification of payment card 
solutions and Internet bank platforms for the banking 
and finance sector. Cybercom also actively combats 
IT crime through fraud investigations and industrial 
espionage investigations in collaboration with interna -
tional police and law enforcement authorities.
Like many IT and telecom companies, Cybercom has 
chosen to actively combat the spread of child pornog -
raphy on the Internet. We do not collaborate with this 
type of company or companies related to these types 
of activity.
To assess how clients perceive Cybercom’s work, we 
conduct an evaluation after each project, in which the 
client evaluates Cybercom’s work.
Being socially responsible to our clients includes 
helping to increase the amount of sustainable 
business . Cybercom has therefore set as one of its 
goals in 2013 to increase the amount of sustainable 
business with our clients. We will measure this by 
looking at what business contributes to operating 
efficiency, money saving or reduced environmental 
impact for our clients.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 23
Cybercom and SOS  
Children’s Villages in 
Rwanda
In 2012, our work continued with SOS Children’s 
Villages in Rwanda. Cybercom signed a long-term 
agreement with SOS Children’s Villages in 2009, and 
finances a major part of the activities at a primary 
school for 400 children in Gikongoro, Rwanda. During 
the year, employees and CSR managers have visited the 
project and demonstrated their support for the work of 
SOS Children’s Villages.
ADAM, A-Donation-A-Month
To further reinforce Cybercom’s commitment to 
SOS Children’s Villages among employees, the 
company’s CSR ambassadors initiated a campaign 
called ADAM, A-Donation-A-Month or A-Dollar-A-
Month .
Employees can deduct the equivalent of one dollar a 
month from their salary. The money goes to the work 
of SOS Children’s Villages in the country where the 
employee resides, or if there are no local operations 
in that country, to SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda. 
SOS Children’s Villages has operations in many of the 
countries where Cybercom operates, such as Finland, 
Poland and India.
So far, 113 employees have joined ADAM from offices 
in Sweden, Finland, Singapore and Poland.
Run for life
Employees have also been involved with SOS Children’s 
Villages through the “run for life” campaign. On 16 
June, 23 employees in Sweden ran the MalmöMilen 
10 km race. Cybercom donated SEK 1,000 for every 
runner who completed the course. The result was SEK 
23,000 to the SOS Children’s Villages sponsorship 
campaign. This corresponds to ten sponsored children 
for one year.As part of our community involvement, Cybercom supports SOS Children’s Villages and the 
Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation . This commitment is long-term and has involved em -
ployees through various activities .
The choice of SOS Children’s Villages and the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation as Cybercom’s community 
projects is based on how Cybercom can contribute and the markets in which the company operates. Cybercom 
considers which groups are in particular need of assistance, which groups that can, through their own develop -
ment, contribute to the development of a society, and the products and services that are of great benefit to these 
groups.Social responsibility  
– Community involvement
Do you want to donate about a dollar a month to 
support Cybercom SOS Children? Join ADAM, A Donation A Month, one of the winning  sustainability concepts at Cybercom.
Cybercom has chosen SOS Children Villages as our main good cause to support. Each 
year we help around 400 school children in the village of Gikongoro in Rwanda. Now we give you the opportunity to be part of helping out children at SOS Children Villages at a village near you or in Rwanda. 
You sign up by mailing us on CSR@Cybercom.com givng us your name, employment 
number and the amount you would like to donate. You will then be signed up until further notice. Corresponding to a dollar a month will be deducted from your salary.
Our goal is that one out of five will join ADAM.  Mail us now!ADAM
           A Donation A MonthCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 24
Choice of project
The choice of SOS Children’s’ Villages in Rwanda has 
a direct link to Cybercom’s operations. Cybercom runs 
client projects worldwide, including in Rwanda, where 
the company has built the country’s third national 
mobile network for operator Tigo and is optimising 
the network’s performance. Cybercom contributes 
to improving the living conditions in Rwanda by 
increasing the availability of cheap telephony. The 
new telephone network improves access to telephony, 
increases competition and cuts call prices, which 
benefits the user.
Through the Rwanda project, Cybercom supports 
SOS Children’s Villages as a way of helping to further 
develop the country. Cybercom is an international 
knowledge-based company looking to contribute 
to knowledge development in countries in which 
it has projects. Education is the basis for a child’s 
development and gives children a chance to escape 
poverty. Cybercom’s partnership with SOS Children’s Villages is a long-term project with repeat activities. 
All the subsidiaries are engaged in the children’s 
village in Gikongoro, and Cybercom’s commitment to 
SOS Children’s Villages is a source of pride among its 
employees.  
SOS Children’s Villages helps vulnerable children 
around the world. They give orphaned and abandoned 
children a home, a family and an education. SOS 
Children’s Villages has been active in Rwanda for 30 
years. The primary school in Gikongoro was built in 
1992 and consists of six classrooms that provide educa -
tion for around 400 children from the SOS Children’s 
Village. The primary school has doubled in size since it 
was opened. 
Instead of giving Christmas presents, Cybercom 
donates funds to Rwanda. The company sends 
Christmas cards to clients and other stakeholders that 
have pictures of Cybercom’s work with SOS Children’s 
Villages in Rwanda.
Cybercom is supporting SOS Children’s Villages  
and its school in Gikongoro in lieu of gift-giving during the holiday season.
During 2012, 20 new children have arrived at the village and 
been given a home, a loving family, and the possibility to educate themselves all the way to university. The SOS Children’s Village in Gikongoro is home to 120 children and provides an education to 400 children in the nearby area. This year, a national vaccination program against cervical cancer has been rolled out and all girls in sixth grade are invited to participate.Season’s Greetings
from Cybercom and SOS Children’s      Village in Gikongoro, Rwanda.Social responsibility  
– Community involvementCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 25
Cybercom works with the 
Swedish Childhood Cancer 
Foundation
Cybercom also works on a project together with 
the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation. When 
employees at Cybercom Sweden use payment cards in 
their work, SEK 135 per card per year is donated to the 
Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation. The organisa -
tion has its logo on the company cards and Cybercom 
helps to promote the foundation to other potential 
donors. In 2012, SEK 69,000 was raised for the Swed -
ish Childhood Cancer Foundation, which is slightly less 
than in 2011. This is because Cybercom had fewer 
employees in 2012. But thanks to other fundraising 
activities the total contribution to the Swedish Child -
hood Cancer Foundation was SEK 79,000, overall SEK 
4,000 more than in 2011.
Code for life
Cybercom in Karlskrona organised a “Code for Life” 
competition to attract young talent. The company 
donated SEK 1,000 to the Swedish Childhood Cancer 
Foundation for each participant. The competition 
resulted in a total of donation of SEK 10,000 to the 
Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation.
This engagement with the Swedish Childhood Cancer 
Foundation strengthens the company culture at 
Cybercom through the company and its employees 
being able to rally around an important issue. 
Cybercom is a young company with a relatively low 
average age and at Cybercom many employees have 
children. Approximately 300 children are diagnosed 
each year with cancer in Sweden and Cybercom want 
to do something to help, while giving expression to 
Cybercom’s corporate culture.
CORPOR ATECyber com stödjer Barn cancerfonden
CYBERCOM GROUP ABNAME NAMESSON
CYBERCOM GROUP ABNAME NAMESSON
5275 0012 3456 78905275 0012 3456 7890
Koda för Livet  
Älskar du utmaningar? Ta chansen!
 - du kan vinna en Nexus 7.
Du är välkommen på 24 timmar maratonkodning. Skriv en uppkopplad Androidapplikation - du kan vinna en Nexus 7.
Cybercom bjuder på mat och dryck, det enda du behöver ta med dig är en egen dator. Vi ses på Campus Gräsvik 1, den 30/11 kl:18.00.
Har du minst 120 högskolepoäng och jobbat max 3 år?  Skicka ditt 
namn till kodaforlivet@cybercom.com.  Är du bland de tio
första att anmäla dig får du även en biobiljett!
Vi ses där! Cybercom skänker 1000 kr 
till BARNCANCERFONDEN 
för varje deltagare!Alert!
{ { 
www.cybercom.seSocial responsibility  
– Community involvementCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 26
Appendix 1
Cybercom’s Code of Conduct in brief
1 Comply with laws, rules and regulations
All Cybercom employees are responsible for acting in compliance with laws and regulations applicable 
to Cybercom’s business activity and deliveries. In case of a specific issue they shall seek legal advice. 
Cybercom applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Cybercom’s share is listed on Nasdaq OMX 
and Cybercom follows the Rule Book for Issuers, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. It is for Cybercom to ensure 
that all employees have the knowledge relevant for their work. Cybercom presents and reports financial 
and corporate information in compliance with applicable law and regulations, inter alia the International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).  
2 Human rights
Cybercom respects human rights as laid down in UN conventions. Everybody in the organisation must 
show respect for the integrity and dignity of all people. Cybercom will not in any way contribute to the 
violation of human rights.
3 Labour law and working conditions
Cybercom supports freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. 
Cybercom does not permit child labour. Cybercom applies the principle that a child is a person younger 
than 15 years of age unless national legislation states an older age, in which case the older age applies. 
Cybercom applies the definition of child labour as laid down by the International Labour Organization 
(ILO). 
Cybercom does not tolerate any forms of discrimination. All employees have equal rights and must never 
be subjected to unjust treatment due to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or disability. All employ -
ees must show respect for each other and for Cybercom’s business partners and will take responsibility 
for combating discrimination. Cybercom works unabatedly to combat discrimination. This permeates 
the company’s policies and processes during, for example, recruitment, setting of wage rates, and skills 
enhancement.   
Cybercom offers salaries that comply with the minimum wage, as laid down in national legislation, with 
correctly prepared employment contracts. Cybercom also ensures that working hours are compliant with 
local legislation. Cybercom seeks to give all employees time for rest with economic compensation.
Cybercom shall not in any way utilise forced labour and will always ensure that the working relationship 
between employee and organisation is at the employee’s own free will.
4 Health and safety
Cybercom shall provide a healthy and safe workplace in compliance with internationally acknowledged 
standards. Cybercom works proactively to prevent accidents and work-related illnesses. All employees are 
offered health and safety training when and if required.Cybercom’s Code of Conduct is based on the UN Global Compact principles on human 
rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption . The code is for the employees . During 
2012, Cybercom adapted the code to the company’s suppliers .CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 27
Appendix 1
5 Environment
Our aim is to minimise the company’s negative environmental impact. Cybercom respects the precaution -
ary principle and seeks to actively contribute to reducing negative environmental impact through responsi -
ble measures and technological advancement. Cybercom is in the process of environmentally certifying its 
offices. Cybercom always acts in compliance with laws and internationally recognised directives.  
6 Prohibited business practices
Cybercom complies with the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute’s Code of Gifts, Rewards and other benefits 
in Business, 1 September 2012, and works actively to combat corruption and unethical practices. Employ -
ees must not give or receive gifts, benefits or bribes that constitute a breach of this code. Cybercom is 
politically independent and does not sponsor political organisations. Cybercom is opposed to any form of 
money laundering and have taken the measures deemed relevant to prevent financial transactions that are 
of criminal intent. 
7 Promote accurate disclosure in financial reports and other public  
communications
Cybercom shall be transparent and provide relevant information when so required. This means that the 
company shall always provide fair and correct information. Cybercom’s goal is for all communication to 
contribute to a stronger brand. 
8 Properly use and protect company assets and confidential information
All business decisions shall be made with the good of the company in mind. All consultants will be profes -
sional in their relationship with Cybercom and will not pursue competitive activities.
Client trust is of vital importance to Cybercom. All employees will treat client information in complete con -
fidentiality. Information about Cybercom’s clients may only be used in the implementation of the project 
in question. This confidentiality remains in force even after the project has been completed. Cybercom has 
clear guidelines for the handling of confidential information.
9 Protect our clients’ and partners’ confidential and proprietary  
information
Cybercom requires all employees to sign a confidentiality agreement. There are clear rules for the handling 
of, and access to, material belonging to Cybercom.
10 Take a professional pride in the consultancy role
Freedom with accountability, and focus on the individual are important contributory factors in Cybercom 
being able to attract highly skilled staff. Cybercom seeks to offer all employees the opportunity for 
personal and professional development. A workplace that is open, creative and flexible sets the course for 
being able to offer clients professional and attractive products and services.
To sum up, Cybercom shall always conduct itself ethically in its dealings with all its stakeholders. Cybercom 
shall be characterised by professionalism and integrity.
You find Cybercom’s Code of Conduct in full on www.cybercom.com/Code-of-ConductCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 28
Appendix 2
The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles
At the World Economic Forum in Davos in 1999, the UN’s secretary-general Kofi Annan 
challenged the business community to take global responsibility  . The secretary-gen -
eral’s initiative led to the formation of the Global Compact, which includes principles 
of human rights, labour rights, environment issues and corruption in business . The 
principles are based on the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO core conven -
tions on human rights in the workplace, the Rio Declaration and the UN Convention 
against Corruption .
Human rights
Principle 1
Businesses should support and respect the 
protection of internationally proclaimed human 
rights; and
Principle 2
make sure that they are not complicit in human 
rights abuses.
Labour
Principle 3
Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa -
tion and the effective recognition of the right to 
collective bargaining;
Principle 4
the elimination of all forms of forced and compul -
sory labour;
Principle 5
the effective abolition of child labour; and
Principle 6
the elimination of discrimination in respect of 
employment and occupation.Environment
Principle 7
Businesses should support a precautionary 
approach to environmental challenges;
Principle 8
undertake initiatives to promote greater environ -
mental responsibility; and
Principle 9
encourage the development and diffusion of 
environmentally friendly technologies.
Anti-corruption
Principle 10
Businesses should work against corruption in all its 
forms, including extortion and bribery.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 29
Key to symbols of 
reporting scope: 
  Complete 
  Partial 
  Not reported  Annual Report = AR 
Sustainability Report = SR 
Website = wwwReference 
abbreviations:GRI index 
This is Cybercom’s third Sustainability Report and cov -
ers key impacts during the 2012 financial year. Cyber -
com has chosen to apply the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) voluntary guidelines for reporting sustainability 
information, G3.1, at application level C. In drawing up 
the report Cybercom has taken into consideration GRI’s 
ten reporting principles. The information contained 
in the Sustainability Report has not been audited by a 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact’s 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information Comments
1 . Vision and 
strategy
1.1 CEO’s comments AR 6-7,  
SR 3-4Interview with CEO Niklas Flyborg that 
starts on 4 of Annual Report 2012 (AR) 
and ”Cybercom’s sustainability vision and 
strategic objectives” in Sustainability Report 
3-4 (SR).Account of 
continued 
support for Global 
Compact
1.2 Description of 
key impacts, risks and 
opportunitiesSR 6-8 Cybercom’s CSR efforts during the year 
and governance and management of CSR 
efforts SR 6-8. Account of 
continued 
support for Global 
Compact
2 . Organisational 
profile
2.1 Name of the 
organisationAR 19 Cybercom Group AB 
2.2 Primary brands, 
products and servicesAR 2, 
SR 5Summary 2 of AR 5 in SR. The company’s 
most important products are detailed in the 
AR P 21-22 and P 5 SR. 
2.3 Operational 
structureAR 20 Description and organisational diagram can 
be found on 20 of AR. 
2.4 Location of 
headquartersAR 84 P .O. Box 7574, SE–103 93 Stockholm 
Sweden. Visiting address: Lindhagensgatan 
126, SE–112 51 Stockholm, Sweden. 
2.5 Countries in which 
the organisation 
operatesAR 20 Cybercom operates in Sweden, Finland, 
India, Denmark, Singapore, Dubai and 
Poland. 
2.6 Nature of 
ownership and legal 
formAR 2, 31 Cybercom Group AB is a market-listed 
company traded on the NASDAQ OMX 
Stockholm exchange. 
2.7 Markets AR 21 Cybercom’s home market is the Nordic 
countries, but the company provides its 
services internationally. (More details in 
first paragraph AR 21.) Information about 
different sectors/customers on 8 of AR.  
2.8 Scale of the 
organisationAR 5,  
SR 5AR 5 contains a description of the 
company’s scope (sales SEK 1,318 m and 
1,335 employees). 
2.9 Significant 
changes during the 
reporting period AR 4-5 AR 4-5 summarises the company’s events 
during the year and per quarter. 
2.10 Awards received 
in reporting period HR 18-19  
HR 4”Best employer 2012 Cybercom Poland”. 
Nominated sustainable project of the year 
by CIO magazine About Cybercom’s Sustainability Report 2012
third party, but Cybercom regards all the information 
in the 2012 Annual and Sustainability Reports, along 
with that on the company website, as being sufficient 
to meet GRI’s information requirements at application 
level C. The information provided refers to the entire 
group unless otherwise specified. Certain limitations 
of the performance indicators have been necessary 
based on relevance and access to reliable information. 
This chiefly concerns energy consumption and carbon 
dioxide emissions. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 30
GRI index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact’s 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information Comments
3 . Report parame -
ters
 
Report profile
3.1 Reporting period Reporting year 2012 
3.2 Date of most 
recent reportPublished in April 2012
3.3 Reporting cycle January-December 
3.4 Contact point for 
questions regarding 
the report or its 
contentsSR 1 
 
Report scope and 
boundary
3.5 Process for defi -
ning report contentSR 11 
3.6 Boundary of the 
reportSR 29 
3.7 Limitations on the 
scope or boundary of 
the reportSR 1 
3.8 Basis for reporting 
on joint ventures, 
subsidiaries, etc. AR Note 1  
42 See Note 1 on reporting 
principles.  
3.10 Comparability 
with previous reports 
3.11 Significant 
changes from previous 
reporting periods in 
the scope, boun -
dary, or measurement 
methods applied in 
the report In the SR report 2012 
air travel for employees 
in Singapore is 
included.
GRI-table
3.12 Table identifying 
the location of the 
Standard Disclosures in 
the reportSR 29-36 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 31
GRI index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact’s 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information Comments
4 . Governance, 
commitments and 
engagement
 
Governance
4.1 Governance 
structureAR 
Corporate 
Governan -
ce Report 
73-82The company’s board and management 
structure are detailed in the Corporate 
Governance Report 72-82 of AR, with a 
figure illustrating the structure on the first 
page of this section.  Activities and 
decisions taken 
for implementa -
tion 1-10
4.2 The chairman of 
the board’s role in the 
organisationAR 
Corporate 
Governan -
ce Report 
73-82 Chairman Hampus Ericsson is described 
on 77. He is not included in Cybercom’s 
executive team. Activities and 
decisions taken 
for implementa -
tion 1-10
4.3 Independent and/
or non-executive 
board membersAR 
Corporate 
Governan -
ce Report 
73-82 The company has an executive manage -
ment and a board with various members. Activities and 
decisions taken 
for implementa -
tion 1-10
4.4 Mechanisms for 
shareholders and 
employees to provide 
recommendations 
or direction to the 
highest governance 
bodyAR 
Corporate 
Governan -
ce Report  
73-82 Contact information and information about 
the AGM is presented in the AR, Corporate 
Governance report 73-82. Activities and 
decisions taken 
for implementa -
tion 1-10
4.12 Externally 
developed economic, 
environmental, and 
social charters, 
principles, or other 
initiatives to which 
the organisation 
subscribes or endorsesSR 1, 3, 
8, 26 Activities and 
decisions taken 
for implementa -
tion 1-10UN Global Compact 
principles and 
guidelines
 
Stakeholder 
engagement
4.14 Stakeholder 
groups engaged by 
the organisation SR 11-12 
4.15 Basis for identi -
fication and selection 
of stakeholders with 
whom to engageSR 11 
4.16 Approaches 
to stakeholder 
engagementSR 11-12
4.17 Key topics 
and concerns that 
have been raised 
through stakeholder 
engagementSR 11-12 
 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 32
GRI index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact’s 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information Comments
5 . Economic perfor -
mance indicators
Economic perfor -
mance 
EC1. Direct economic 
value generated and 
distributed, including 
revenues, operating 
costs, employee com -
pensation, donations 
and other com -
munity investments, 
retained earnings, 
and payments to 
capital providers and 
governments.SR 13 Heading: Economic responsibility. Table: 
Cybercom Group Created and distributed 
direct economic value.
EC2. Financial 
implications and other 
risks and opportunities 
for the organisation’s 
activities due to 
climate change. SR 16 Heading: Sustainable business. Describes 
how Cybercom’s products and services 
create opportunities for companies 
that need to reduce their emissions of 
greenhouse gases.Principle 7
EC3. Coverage of 
the organisation’s 
defined benefit plan 
obligations. AR ‘Em -
ployees, 
employee 
benefits 
expense 
and remu -
neration 
to senior 
executives' 
AR 40, 
Note 3Employee benefits are presented under 
'Employees, employee benefits expense 
and remuneration to senior executives,  
AR 40, Note 3. 
EC4. Significant finan -
cial assistance received 
from government.  Cybercom has not 
received any significant 
financial assistance 
from government in 
2012. 
 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 33
GRI index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact’s 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information Comments
6 . Environmental 
performance 
indicators
Energy
EN4. Indirect 
energy consumption 
by primary source. SR 14-16 Principle 8
EN6. Initiatives to 
provide energy-
efficient or renewable 
energy based 
products and services, 
and reductions in 
energy requirements 
as a result of these 
initiatives.SR 16 Heading: Sustainable business. 16 SR 
describes how Cybercom assists its clients 
to reduce their environmental impact.Principles 8 & 9
EN7. Initiatives to 
reduce indirect 
energy consumption 
and reductions 
achieved.SR 14 A list of some of Cybercom’s methods for 
reducing energy use and environmental 
impact, 14 SR.Principles 8 & 9
Emissions, effluents 
and waste
EN17. Other indirect  
greenhouse gas 
emissions by weight. SR 14-15 Table and graph: Cybercom Group’s air 
travel, Table: Cybercom Group: Energy use 
and carbon dioxide equivalents by energy 
source.Principle 8
EN18. Initiatives to 
reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions and 
reductions achieved. SR 14 A list of some of Cybercom’s methods for 
reducing energy use and environmental 
impact 14 SR.Principles 7, 8 & 9
 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 34
GRI index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact’s 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information Comments
7 . Social perfor -
mance indicators
Employment and 
working conditions 
Employment
LA1. Total workforce 
by employment type, 
employment contract, 
and region. AR 20,  
SR 21Total staff by region can be found in SR 
21 table: Cybercom Group: Workforce by 
country 
Employee/manage -
ment relations 
LA4. Percentage of 
employees covered by 
collective bargaining 
agreements. SR 21 SR 21 Heading: Well-being of our 
employees. Table: Cybercom Group 
employees, 2012.Principles 1 & 3
 
Health and safety
LA7. Rates of 
injury, occupational 
diseases, lost days, 
and absenteeism, 
and total number of 
work-related fatalities 
by region.  SR 21 SR 21 Heading: Well-being of our employ -
ees. Table: Cybercom Group employees, 
2012 Table: Labour force by gender and 
sick leave.Principle 1 Cybercom measures 
only absence due to 
illness, since other 
parameters required 
for the indicator are 
not relevant to our 
activities. 
Training and 
education  
LA10. Average hours 
of training per year 
per employee by 
employee category. SR 21 Heading: Development and retention 
of expertise. Table: Cybercom Group 
employees, 2012.
LA12. Percentage of 
employees receiving 
regular performance 
and career develop -
ment reviews. SR 21 SR 21 Table: Cybercom Group employees, 
2012. All employees have 
annual employee 
reviews.
Diversity and equal 
opportunity  
LA13. Composition 
of governance bodies 
and breakdown of em -
ployees per category 
according to gender, 
age group, minority 
group membership, 
and other indicators of 
diversity.AR 52, 
76-81,  
HR 21The AR contains tables for this on 52 and 
detailed info on the company’s manage -
ment on 76-81.Principles 1 & 6 Categorisation of 
employees by mino -
rity group and other 
indicators of diversity 
is not permitted under 
Swedish law.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 35
GRI index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact’s 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information Comments
Human rights 
performance 
indicators 
Investments and 
procurement 
practices
HR1. Percentage 
and total number of 
significant investment 
agreements that 
include human rights 
clauses or that have 
undergone human 
rights screening. SR 22 This process is described under SR 22 
heading: Cybercom’s responsibility in 
relation to clients.Principles 1, 2, 3, 
4, 5 & 6Investment decisions 
include requirements 
and surveys but 
statistics are not 
currently maintained.
 
Non-discrimination
HR4. Total number 
of incidents of 
discrimination and 
actions taken.Principles 1, 2 & 6 No cases of discrimina -
tion were reported in 
2012. 
Society performance 
indicators
Anti-corruption  
SO3. Percentage of 
employees trained 
in organisation’s 
anti-corruption policies 
and procedures. SR 21 Principle 10
SO4. Actions taken in 
response to incidents 
of corruption. Principle 10 No incidents of corrup -
tion or anti-competitive 
actions have arisen in 
2012.
Political perfor -
mance indicators
SO5. Public 
policy positions and 
participation in public 
policy development 
and lobbying. HR 21 Principle 10
SO6. Total value of 
financial and in-kind 
contributions to 
political parties, 
politicians, and related 
institutions by country. HR 21 Principle 10CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 · PAGE 36
GRI index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact’s 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information Comments
Anti-competitive 
practices
SO7. Total number of 
legal actions for anti-
competitive behaviour, 
anti-trust, and 
monopoly practices 
and their outcomes. No such incidents in 
2012.
Compliance with 
applicable laws and 
regulations
SO8. Monetary value 
of significant fines and 
total number of non-
monetary sanctions for 
non-compliance with 
laws and regulations. In 2012 Cybercom was 
not fined or sanctioned 
for non-compliance 
with laws and 
regulations.
Product responsi -
bility performance 
indicators 
PR5. Practices related 
to customer satisfac -
tion, including results 
of surveys measuring 
customer satisfaction.SR 22 SR 22 Heading: Clients and suppliers
Marketing com -
munications  
PR7. Total number 
of incidents of 
non-compliance 
with regulations 
and voluntary codes 
concerning marketing 
communications, 
including advertising, 
promotion, and 
sponsorship, by type 
of outcomes. No such incidents in 
2012.
Customer integrity
PR8. Total number 
of substantiated 
complaints regarding 
breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of 
customer data. Principle 1 No such incidents in 
2012.
Compliance
PR9. Monetary value 
of significant fines for 
non-compliance with 
laws and regulations 
concerning the 
provision and use of 
products and services. No such incidents in 
2012.
 CYBERCOM · HÅLLBARHETSREDOVISNING 2011 · SID 37Definitions
CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility)  
The concept of corporate social responsibility includes 
the responsibility a company takes for its activities, 
products and services, environmental, social and 
economic impact on society and stakeholders. 
UN Global Compact  
Is the UN’s strategic policy initiative to promote 
corporate social responsibility in the areas of human 
rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption. 
(www.unglobalcompact.org/)
Sustainable development  
The Brundtland Commission coined the term sustaina -
ble development in 1987 and it had an impact during 
the Rio conference 1992. The parameter is “develop -
ment that meets the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations to meet 
their own needs”. The three dimensions of sustainable 
development - economic, social and environmental - 
should be coherent and mutually reinforce each other.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
GRI is an international organisation that has developed 
global guidelines for how companies should report 
on their sustainability efforts. The framework includes 
indicators for the organisation, stakeholders and the 
economic, environmental and social aspects.
ILO 
International Labour Organization (ILO) is the UN spe -
cialised agency for employment and workplace issues. 
ILO seeks to promote social justice and internationally 
recognised human and labor rights.
Stakeholders  
Stakeholders mean stakeholders who have mutual 
influence and activities of the company, its services and 
its processes, both directly and indirectly. For example, 
employees, shareholders, customers, consumers, 
suppliers and partners.
ISO 14001  
An internationally recognised standard for certifying 
ones EMS. ISO 14001 is the name of the standards 
dealing with environmental management. These 
standards in turn, create an environmental manage -
ment system that can be easily integrated into existing 
operations.
Carbon offsetting  
A measure that provides a reduction of greenhouse 
gases equal to the emissions of greenhouse gases that 
the business would like to compensate for. Carbon dioxide (CO2) 
Carbon dioxide occurs naturally in the atmosphere and 
is involved in the photosynthesis and is also an effect 
of combustion.
SOS Children’s Villages  
SOS Children’s Villages Sweden is a member associa -
tion and part of the international umbrella organisation 
SOS-Kinderdorf International, which has its head-
quarters in Innsbruck, Austria. SOS Children’s Villages is 
an independent, non-governmental organisation. The 
organisation takes care of orphaned and abandoned 
children and provides them a home, family and 
education.Cybercom Group AB (publ .)
P .O. Box 7574
SE-103 93 Stockholm · Sweden
Tel + 46 8 578 646 00
cybercom.com