Sustainability 
Report 2011CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 1Sustainability Report 2011 Cybercom 
This is Cybercom’s second sustainability report. In this report, we present 
Cybercom’s sustainability work from the tenets of economic, environmental 
and social responsibility. This follows from the definition of sustainable 
development. The sustainability report is published in conjunction with the 
annual report no later than April 2, and is a complement to the annual 
report. The sustainability report is aimed specifically at those groups who are 
interested in sustainability information, such as interest groups, customers 
and sustainability analysts.
Cybercom reports in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative, GRI level C. 
In the future the intention is to also submit the report to the GRI. 
The sustainability report is structured as follows: We start with Cybercom’s 
vision and strategic objectives. This is followed by a description of Cybercom 
as a company and Cybercom’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) work 
during the year. We also describe the management and governance of the 
CSR work and stakeholder expectations of Cybercom’s sustainability efforts.
Cybercom’s work is described and analysed against economic, environmental 
and social responsibility. This work is then summarised in the GRI table, 
which presents the indicators with which Cybercom fully or partially 
complies.
For additional information please contact:
Anna Trane
PR and press manager Cybercom Group
+46 (0) 708 84 74 69
anna.trane@cybercom.com
Cybercom and UN Global Compac  
During 2012 Cybercom has been affiliated to the 
UN Global Compact network which is an initiative to 
promote responsible corporate practices in the areas 
of human rights, labour, environment and anti-
corruption.
CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 1CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 2Content
CEO Comment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
 – Cybercom’s sustainability vision and strategic objectives  . . . . . . . . . . 3
This is Cybercom  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Cybercom’s CSR work during the year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Governance and management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
 – UN Global Compact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
 – Cybercom’s CSR ambassadors  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Stakeholder expectations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
 – Stakeholder interview with Second AP Fund  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Economic responsibility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
 –  Donations to Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation  
        and SOS Children’s Villages.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Environmental Responsibility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
 – Cybercom’s internal environmental efforts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
 – Environmental certification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
 – Products and services that reduce environmental impact  . . . . . . . . 15
Social responsibility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
 – Employees and the workplace  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
 – Employee satisfaction survey  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
 – Stakeholder interview with HR Cybercom  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Development and retention of expertise  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
 – Gender balance, absenteeism  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Customers and suppliers  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
 – Customer satisfaction survey  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
 – Responsibility in relation to customers  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
 – Responsibility to make demands of the supplier chain  . . . . . . . . . . 21
Community involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
 – Stakeholder interview with CSR ambassador at Cybercom  . . . . . . . 22
 – Choice of projects, SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda  . . . . . . . . . . 23
 – Cooperation with the Childhood Cancer Foundation  . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Cybercom’s code of conduct in brief  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
GRI Index  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Definitions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 3For Cybercom to be able to grow with 
continued profitability, it is important to 
take responsibility for how people and the 
environment are affected by the company’s 
activities. We therefore work with long-term 
sustainability issues and believe it is impor -
tant to report and follow up on Cybercom’s 
sustainability efforts.  
Our view of social responsibility begins, particularly, 
in our assignments as an IT consultant to our custom -
ers. This includes our impact on our employees, our 
partners, investors, and society and the environment as 
a whole. 
This means that we evaluate our business both in 
advance and when conducting work. This is relevant, 
for example, when we work in, or procure from, firms 
in countries that lack democratic government, have 
flawed environmental laws or where human rights may 
be violated. Moreover Cybercom scraps equipment in 
an environmentally sound manor. 
We also work proactively with solutions that allow 
our customers in turn to reduce their environmental 
impact. This may be digital solutions for government 
agencies, systems for web-based meetings to reduce 
travel and various forms of so-called green IT where 
Cybercom, for example, offers hosting of servers.
During 2012 Cybercom was affiliated to the UN Global 
Compact network. 
During the year, we completed a successful programme 
with CSR ambassadors at Cybercom. In addition to 
their regular jobs, three IT consultants were assigned to 
gain an understanding of Cybercom’s sustainability ef -
forts, develop these in collaboration with management 
and CSR managers and to communicate the work 
internally and externally. Another important event   
was the introduction of the Lync video conferencing 
system at all offices within the Cybercom group. Lync 
will replace some physical meetings, thereby reducing 
Cybercom’s environmental impact from travel. During 
2011, the company also conducted a first group-wide 
employee survey. This survey will form the starting 
point for Cybercom’s efforts to improve both the 
workplace and employee development opportunities 
at Cybercom. Simultaneously, we conducted a first 
group-wide customer satisfaction survey. This will be 
the starting point to better understand and meet our 
customers’ requirements, including sustainability issues.Cybercom has three strategic  
sustainability objectives
Our sustainability work has three strategic and long-
term objectives that we will actively work with in 2012.
1)  With regard to the environment, we are working 
to reduce our impact by measuring our energy 
consumption and our emissions from travel with 
the objective of achieving a 5 percent reduction 
in our CO 2 emissions per revenue krona by 
2015.
2)  For our social responsibility, we are working to 
provide our employees with a good working 
environment, good conditions and opportunities for 
development. We measure this using an annual 
group-wide employee survey intended to 
improve employee satisfaction.
3)  We take a social responsibility by actively 
trying to influence the suppliers we work with. 
In 2012, we will communicate Cybercom’s code 
of conduct to our suppliers and monitor them to 
ensure compliance.
In a broader sense, social responsibility is also about 
using our core business and expertise for improvement. 
Cybercom therefore supports organisations such as 
the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation and SOS 
Children’s Villages in the developing world. We see 
ourselves as an active partner and not just a contribu -
tor. Learn more about our commitment and ongoing 
efforts in our sustainability report and please offer 
suggestions as to how we can improve even more! Cybercom’s sustainability vision  
and strategic objectives
CEO Comment
Niklas Flyborg , President and CEO, Cybercom Group.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 4This is Cybercom
Cybercom is a consultancy that creates value 
for its customers by delivering business 
solutions of the highest quality, primarily in 
telecom management, connected devices, 
Internet services and security. Thanks to our 
approximately 1,600 employees with exten -
sive industry experience and operational ex -
pertise, the company is able to offer strategic 
and technological proficiency to companies 
in telecom, industry, media, government, 
retail, and banking and finance. 
With 22 offices in nine countries, Cybercom under -
takes assignments throughout most of the world. 
Cybercom collaborates closely with its customers and 
can also offer global delivery capabilities. Cybercom’s 
business has a strong platform in the Nordic countries 
and facilities in Eastern Europe and Asia, and sales 
offices in Dubai.
Cybercom is a growing company that has mainly 
expanded through acquisitions, from sales of approxi -
mately SEK 535 million in 2006 to SEK 1,481 million in 
2011. Contracts in the telecom segment make up the largest 
share of Cybercom’s sales, at 45 percent. Cybercom 
was founded in 1995 and has been quoted on the 
NASDAQ OMX Stockholm exchange since 1999. For 
more information about Cybercom as a company, 
please refer to our annual report, published on  
www.cybercom.com.
Cybercom has developed the company’s mission: 
“Boosting your performance in the connected world“, 
the company’s vision: “We are our clients’ most 
trusted   business partners in the connected world” and  
Cybercom’s three core values  : “Innovation, Passion, 
Trust”.About Cybercom 
Name No of shares Holding %
JCE Group AB* 12 965 290 35,93
Accendo Capital 3 685 527 10,21
Swedbank Robur Fonder 2 958 176 8,20
Livförsäkringsaktiebolaget  
Skandia (publ)*2 926 243 8,11
Didner & Gerge Aktiefond 1 674 779 4,64
JCE SecuritiesAB 945 232 2,62
Försäkringsaktiebolaget, 
Avanza Pension759 202 2,10
Ålandsbanken Fonder AB 698 000 1,93
JP Morgan Bank 609 360 1,69
Second AP Fund 349 027 0,97
Total 27 570 836 76,40
Other 8 517 063 23,60
Total shares 36 087 899 100,00Largest shareholders per 31 December 2011,  
by holdings. Source: Euroclear*
* JCE Group bought 1 million shares in Cybercom on 29 December 
and subsequently owns 13,965,290 shares, corresponding to 38.70 
percent of the company. Livförsäkringsaktiebolaget Skandia has 
simultaneously reduced its ownership in Cybercom. These ownership 
changes were not registered with Euroclear until after the year end.
Cybercom in Rwanda where the company has built the third national 
mobile network for operator Tigo. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 5Cybercom’s CSR work during the year 
GOAL: RAISING AWARENESS AND ENGAGEMENT   
In order to increase internal awareness and engagement for our work, we have established CSR ambas -
sadors at the company. Our CSR ambassadors work with CSR issues both internally and externally.
OUTCOME: CSR ambassadors and CSR managers have held talks internally across the organisation. 
Cybercom has been invited to give talks externally, such as for SOS Children’s Villages in Almedalen and 
for the accounting firm KPMG, and representatives of Cybercom have been interviewed in the press 
about the company’s CSR work. This in turn has increased awareness of Cybercom’s work externally, and 
has improved engagement in sustainability issues internally. 
DEVELOPMENT:  Cybercom has for the second consecutive year appointed CSR ambassadors who work 
internally and externally with CSR issues. The purpose of this is that the ambassadors will help develop 
Cybercom’s sustainability efforts and help to increase awareness of the company’s sustainability efforts 
internally and externally.
GOAL: IMPROVING AWARENESS OF OUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES 
Cybercom’s values, norms and principles were laid down in the code of conduct that was introduced 
in 2004 and revised in 2010. In order to enhance awareness and understanding of this, we initiated an 
internal communications campaign.
OUTCOME: The campaign was conducted during the year, and the main principles and guidelines of the 
code were communicated and discussed internally at the various offices. The campaign has helped to 
increase awareness and understanding of the code of conduct, partly through the discussions that arose 
in connection with the campaign.
DEVELOPMENT: The next step is to spread awareness of Cybercom’s values, norms and principles 
externally through our code of conduct; partly to customers and partly by requiring that our contractors 
comply with the requirements and expectations of our code of conduct.
GOAL: MORE VIDEO CONFERENCES
Introduction of the Lync video conferencing system to increase the proportion of conferences over the 
Internet and reduce the proportion of conferences that require travel.
OUTCOME:  Since the end of 2011, employees at all Cybercom offices have had access to Lync. 
DEVELOPMENT:  In 2012, we estimate that more virtual conferences will take place and conference 
travel will be reduced. This will in turn help to reduce emissions due to travel, and will reduce the group’s 
travel expenses and reduce the economic burden on society.Governance and management 
EconomicCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 6Cybercom’s CSR work during the year 
GOAL: REDUCING EMISSIONS 
In the long run reduce travel emissions through the introduction of the Lync IT -based conference system. 
Reducing environmental impact by scrapping equipment in an environmentally sound manor.
OUTCOME:  Emissions per employee increased in 2011 from 0.482 tonnes to 0.51 tonnes. Scrapping 
reduces negative environmental impact.
DEVELOPMENT:  In 2012, all employees have access to Lync and the objective of reducing travel per 
employee has been initiated.
GOAL: REVIEWING CYBERCOM’S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Identifying services that can reduce the negative environmental impact of our customers.
OUTCOME: We identified server hosting services. Packaging of services for government agencies, mu -
nicipalities and counties to reduce negative environmental impacts through services for remote meetings, 
meeting management (paperless), sustainability reporting and compliance with environmental policies. 
The Swedish tax authority’s Dialog project, an e-government service. Rovdjursforum, a national database 
of predatory animals that creates the conditions for sustainable and long-term wildlife management. A 
video conferencing system for Telia.
DEVELOPMENT: Cybercom will develop a government agency mailbox that individuals can choose to 
direct their communications to. Cybercom in Sweden will reduce its environmental impact through this 
type of service. Cybercom’s sales force will continue to develop and provide information about services 
that also contribute to reduced negative environmental impact for the customer, such as hosting of 
customers’ servers. 
GOAL: MEASURING EMPLOYEE PERSPECTIVE OF CYBERCOM 
Implementing a group-wide employee survey to capture how employees feel, develop and perceive 
Cybercom as a workplace in any country where we operate.
OUTCOME: Cybercom’s first group-wide employee survey has been conducted, with the overall result 
that Cybercom is just below the average for companies that have carried out a similar staff survey 
through research firm Zondera.
DEVELOPMENT:  Cybercom aims to improve the result in the employee survey in 2012 including skills 
development and career planning. Environmental
Employees and the workplaceCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 7Cybercom’s CSR work during the year 
GOAL: IMPROVING CIRCUMSTANCES FOR CHILDREN IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
Developing cooperation with SOS Children’s Villages.
OUTCOME: In 2011, Cybercom was one of the companies that represented SOS in Almedalen. 
Cybercom’s staff made an additional collection for books and computers for SOS Children’s Villages.
DEVELOPMENT: Informing employees about more approaches to support the children helped by 
SOS Children’s Villages.
GOAL: IMPROVING CIRCUMSTANCES FOR CHILDREN IN THE NORDICS
Encouraging employees to acquire a payment card that Cybercom developed with the Swedish 
Childhood  Cancer Foundation, where SEK135 per card goes to the foundation. 
OUTCOME: In 2011, the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation received SEK 75,000 through 
 employees’ credit card purchases.
At the end of 2011, 551 employees had this card.
DEVELOPMENT: Continuing to promote the card among our staff in order to increase the funds raised 
for the foundation. Start similar cooperation in our other operating countries for community engage -
ment.Community involvementGOAL: IMPROVING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
Implementing a group-wide customer satisfaction survey to find out what customers think of Cybercom 
and what the company can improve in relation to them.
OUTCOME:  Cybercom’s rating is slightly above the average for other companies that used research 
firm Innolink’s customer satisfaction survey. 99 percent of Cybercom’s customers would recommend the 
company to their colleagues.
DEVELOPMENT:  In 2012, Cybercom continue working with the precision of its delivery and to better 
meet customer expectations.Customers and suppliersCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 8Governance and management 
Cybercom’s CSR work is governed primarily 
by the company’s code of conduct and its 
compliance and monitoring procedures. Our 
code of conduct was introduced in 2004 and 
was updated in 2010, and the revised code 
was implemented in the organisation in 
2011. The code sets out the company’s social 
and environmental values, norms, principles 
and the requirements and expectations we 
have of our employees. 
The code covers ten different areas, including human 
rights, labour standards, environment and business 
ethics, including anti-corruption. The code is used as 
an aid to solving ethical dilemmas in the organisa -
tion with regard to issues of responsibility. The code 
complies with the UN Global Compact’s ten moral 
principles in these four areas.
The basis for the code’s contents includes our custom -
ers’ requirements and expectations regarding our 
sustainability efforts. Cybercom’s code should therefore 
be able to match the demands and expectations of 
customers and suppliers. This includes minimising 
adverse environmental impacts. Furthermore, the 
code should address the dilemmas that Cybercom 
encounters in its daily activities. It is very important 
for employees and partners to know where Cybercom 
stands on issues such as workers’ rights, and desired 
behaviour in terms of ethics and morality in business.Cybercom’s CSR ambassadors and CSR networks  
in the organisation are another important part of 
Cybercom’s governance and management of CSR 
issues. The ambassadors work in close partnership 
with Cybercom’s communications department, HR 
department and management to bring into effect the 
guidelines and objectives Cybercom has established 
and to communicate these issues internally and 
externally.
A third tool for governance and management of 
Cybercom’s CSR work is the guidelines for sustain -
ability and social responsibility of the UN Global 
Compact.  This means that Cybercom as a company is 
committed to:
1)  Implementing changes in activities if necessary 
so that the UN Global Compact and its 10 prin -
ciples in the areas of human rights, labour rights, 
environment and anti-corruption become part of 
Cybercom’s strategy, culture and daily operations, 
including subsidiaries and subcontractors.
2)  Advocating and promoting the UN Global Compact 
and its ten moral principles. 
3)  Annually measuring, presenting and communicating 
Cybercom’s CSR efforts and how we work with the 
UN Global Compact’s principles.
 
CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 9Cybercom has since 2010 had a programme 
of CSR ambassadors. Each year, all the em -
ployees in the company are invited to apply, 
and three to four people are selected. They 
are trained in Cybercom’s CSR work and also 
visit Cybercom’s community engagement 
projects in Rwanda. 
Ambassadors play a key role in implementing and 
explaining Cybercom’s CSR work to colleagues, 
customers and other stakeholders. This implementation 
work includes the CSR ambassadors recounting Cyber -
com’s CSR work internally, including via our intranet 
and newsletters as well as externally when Cybercom is 
invited to give talks about our CSR work. Ambassadors 
give lectures, blog in Cybercom’s newsroom on the 
web and address the key CSR issues for internal and 
external discussion.
Cybercom also has an internal CSR network with 
around 30 employees in nine countries who support 
the company’s CSR work. They help with specific 
actions, such as workplace interaction regarding CSR 
and they collect donations, for example for books and 
toys to provide to children in Rwanda.
Interview with CSR ambassador 
Pernilla Hulth: 
 
Why did you apply for the role  
of CSR ambassador?
I think it’s an exciting and above all important area to 
work with in a company. Besides, I was curious and 
wanted to learn more about CSR and Cybercom’s 
work on CSR. So I saw it as an opportunity to get to 
know more, and to use the knowledge of my role 
as a consultant and to make sure the importance of 
working with CSR is shared within the company.
What does a CSR ambassador  
at Cybercom do?                                         
I see my role as a disseminator of information about 
CSR. It’s also surprising how many people don’t know 
what CSR means and above all what it means for the 
employee and the company. I hope I can help raise 
awareness about our CSR activities and CSR in general.What role do you play as ambassadors  
in terms of governance and  management  
of Cybercom’s sustainability efforts?
I think we can help spread information and to initiate 
a discussion within the business areas and units about 
what CSR means in everyday work. The hope is that 
the units themselves can set goals based on their 
circumstances and that in turn will support the overall 
objectives of Cybercom. To achieve this, ambassadors 
need to be able to take part in, for example, unit 
meetings and business area meetings to be able to 
start up these discussions. I think CSR is sometimes 
perceived as abstract and ”it doesn’t affect me”, but it 
very much does. 
How do you regard CSR and business?
It’s essential these days. CSR is an important area that 
can support business, and that is also required by 
customers, suppliers and potential employees, who 
are increasingly aware of sustainability, environmental 
impact and health and safety issues. It can be a 
decisive argument in, for example, procurement and 
can be a decisive competitive factor.
How do you use CSR in your job  
as a consultant?
First and foremost it’s about keeping our code of 
conduct in mind. I also talk about our Rwanda trip and 
Cybercom’s commitment to SOS Children’s Villages. It’s 
about saying that we as IT consultants think this is an 
important area to work with. I can also help my clients 
to eventually become aware in their own companies 
and organisations what they themselves can do in this 
field.
  
Cybercom’s CSR ambassadors
CSR ambassador Pernilla Hulth in Rwanda.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 10Stakeholder expectations
Cybercom’s key stakeholders are those on 
which Cybercom believes it has a substantial 
impact through its activities in various 
respects and those that have a major impact on Cybercom in various ways. This mutual 
interaction is a very important factor for 
Cybercom’s ability to pursue and develop its 
business.
Cybercom has identified employees, customers, investors, suppliers, society and the unions as its key stakeholders.  
The table below shows how the company interacts with these stakeholders.
Stakeholder Group Issues Dialogue Outcome
Employees Professional development, health and safety, 
company culture, organisation Employee survey Training, management 
conferences, meetings 
about vision, values
Customers Value proposition, quality, delivery, security 
management, integrityCustomer survey Sales training, security 
systems
Investors/shareholders Profitability, corporate responsibility AGM, board work, meetings Sustainability report, 
corporate governance 
report
Suppliers Delivery, environmental work,  credit 
worthinessProcurement, negotiations Increased sustainability 
focus 
Social/voluntary 
organisationsClimate issues, electronics, waste, charity Meetings with charities, schools, 
companiesDonations to charities, 
presentations in schools
Unions Labour rights, health and safety, 
 co-determination, board issuesWorkplace meetings, board meetings Support in salary 
negotiationsCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 11One of Cybercom’s major shareholders 
is the Second AP Fund. The shareholder 
representative for this government pension 
fund, Christina Olivecrona, is also a sustain -
ability analyst therefore also makes her 
assessments from a sustainability perspective. 
For this reason, Cybercom thought it would 
be interesting to interview Christina to get 
a better understanding of our stakeholders’ 
views on our sustainability performance.
What does sustainability mean  
to you as a shareholder?
The Second AP Fund believes that companies can 
generate attractive returns by taking into account 
sustainability issues. We therefore think it is positive 
that companies such as Cybercom are identifying and 
working with the opportunities and risks in the area of 
sustainability. 
What are the key social issues for  
IT companies like Cybercom?
For IT companies that offer Internet services, issues 
regarding access to information are important. 
Furthermore, it is essential to protect customer privacy. 
What does this mean for how IT com -
panies like Cybercom should act?
IT companies should have a policy describing the 
company’s position on issues such as freedom of 
expression and access to information. To implement a 
policy the company must then produce more detailed 
guidelines and train staff in how to act. In Cybercom’s 
code of conduct this is dealt with under the section on 
human rights.  
What environmental issues  
are most important?
An IT company like Cybercom should ensure that the 
equipment the company uses and/or provides to its 
customers is energy efficient as possible to reduce the 
need for cooling. Also, it’s important to provide information on, and 
offer customers, green IT solutions, even if they do not 
directly ask for them. When equipment is scrapped, it 
should be done in an environmentally sound manner. 
Sweden and the EU have developed systems for this.  
What do you see as the risks here?
I don’t see any direct environmental risks of Cyber -
com’s business. One potential risk for IT companies like 
Cybercom is if the company does not take responsibil -
ity for scrapping equipment correctly.
What opportunities do you see for 
Cybercom working on sustainability 
issues?
Cybercom’s work on sustainability issues will provide 
knowledge that you can use in your sales and develop -
ment of new products and services. Cybercom can 
develop and inform customers of services that also 
contribute to reduced environmental impact for the 
them, such as hosting of customers’ servers.  
Stakeholder interview with  
Second AP Fund
Christina Olivecrona, shareholder representative for Second AP Fund 
and sustainability analyst.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 12Economic responsibility
Cybercom is a listed company with the 
requirement from its owners to generate 
profitability through corporate responsibility, 
where the company acts in accordance with 
its code of conduct and the guidelines of the 
UN Global Compact.
In 2011 the retained value in Cybercom became 
negative. The company has undergone leadership and 
organisational changes during the year, designed to 
create better conditions for profitability onwards.
In addition to the values Cybercom creates through its 
core business, Cybercom contributes financially to a 
more sustainable development through the donations 
the company makes to the Swedish Childhood Cancer 
Foundation and SOS Children’s Villages.
In 2011, Cybercom donated SEK 135 per payment card 
through its specially developed business payment cards 
with the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation. In 
2011 this was about SEK 75,000.
Cybercom donated around SEK 500,000 to the activi -
ties of SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda during 2011. 
This replaces Christmas gifts to customers and staff. In 
addition, the staff raised nearly SEK 30,000 for books 
and computers through payroll deductions.SEK thousand 2011 2010
Revenue 1 481 074 1 528 928
Distributed value
Employee benefits -950,797 -989,669
Other external expenses -464,839 -427,056
Depreciation, amortisation, 
and impairment losses -190,817 -50,677
Net finance income/expense -19,058 -21,077
Tax 224 2,247
Retained value -144,213 42,696Cybercom group: Created and distributed  
direct economic value, 2010 – 2011CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 13Environmental Responsibility
Cybercom’s internal  
environmental efforts
At Cybercom we continuously work to raise 
employees’ environmental awareness and 
integrate environmental considerations into 
daily tasks. Cybercom’s business overall has a 
relatively low environmental impact. 
Carbon dioxide from passenger transport is the most 
significant direct environmental impact. After that are 
consumption of office supplies and disposal of comput -
ers. Cybercom places requirements upon providers of 
office supplies and computers. It is necessary that they 
can meet the environmental requirements of TCO 95 
and TCO 99 and that the material is recyclable. 
As a tool for raising awareness of the company’s en -
vironmental impact, Cybercom conducted a survey in 
2010 among its employees in Gothenburg, Stockholm 
and Malmö regarding their travel habits. The survey 
showed that employees’ work-related travel and travel 
to and from work form Cybercom’s most significant 
environmental impact. It is mainly employees’ air travel 
that accounts for emissions.
In 2010 and 2011, Cybercom has measured carbon 
dioxide emissions from air travel (excluding India and 
Singapore). As shown in the table, these increased 
between 2010 and 2011 by 6 percent.
The increase is due in large part to increased travel 
within Sweden. This in turn stems from the reorganisa -
tion that Cybercom conducted, in which the com -
panies in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö were 
merged into Cybercom Sweden. This process involved 
many physical meetings between the different units 
and, in other words, increased travel. Cybercom now wants to influence this in a posi -
tive direction. In 2012, the goal is to bring down 
the company’s CO 2 emissions per revenue krona 
by 5 percent until 2015.
The introduction of online meetings through the 
IT -based communication tool Lync throughout the 
organisation will in part replace physical meetings and 
help to reduce the number of flights.
In addition to Lync, Cybercom is conducting a system -
atic effort to reduce the group’s environmental impact. 
Some examples of actions taken are:
• Lights switched off by timer after business hours. 
•  Handling of old IT equipment which, when possible, 
is sold for reuse or otherwise goes to partners for 
recycling.
•  Handling of discarded electronic products that are 
recycled where possible. 
•  All printers are by default set to duplex printing, 
and employees are encouraged to avoid using hard 
copies as far as possible. 
• Recycling of paper and other waste.
•  Procurement of products, consumables and 
services must, if possible, meet high environmental 
standards. 
• Purchase of renewable electricity.CO2 Emissions
Air T ravel
71%Electric 
Power
29%
As shown in the graph air transportation accounts for mo re than 
70 per cent of the gr oup's carbon dioxide emissions. 
(Figur es ar e excluding Singapor e and India.)Cyber com Gr oup
2010 2011Percentage 
change
Carbon dioxide emissions 0.482 kg 0.510 kg +6%Carbon dioxide emissions from air travel in  
relation to the company’s sales, 2010 – 2011
Cybercom Group 2011
No. of flights 2,982
Total airline miles 3,110,546
CO2 emissions (tonnes) 748.3Air travelCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 14Environmental certification
Cybercom is working with environmental certification 
of the firm’s activities in accordance with ISO14001. 
Cybercom is striving for all our businesses to eventually 
be certified, and work has begun. The Gothenburg 
office was the first part of Cybercom to be certified 
and this was achieved in 2010. The objective is for 
all of the Swedish operations to obtain certification. 
In 2011 the work on this was at the same level as in 
2010. However, Cybercom has expressed an ambition 
to develop this work in 2012 and onwards. 
Total energy use 3.024.3 thousands of kWhEnergy Use by Energy Source,  2011
Water, 
30.0%Peat, 0.3%
Coal, 
29.3%Wind, 8.4%Nuclear Power ,
7.0%Oil, 2.5%
Natural gas,22.5%Cyber com Gr oup
CO2 Emissions by Energy Source,  2011
Cyber com Gr oup
CO2 emissions, tonnes
WaterCoal
Natural gasWind
PowerNuclear OilPeat050100150200250300269,2
0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 3,2CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 15Green IT is growing in importance as the 
impact of climate change becomes clearer. 
Green IT includes ”environmentally friendly 
and energy efficient” computers. But Green 
IT is also about how Cybercom can offer 
services that help its customers reduce their 
environmental impact.
To some extent, Green IT is about reducing the 
industry’s energy consumption, but the really big 
environmental benefits are created by IT being able 
to reduce environmental impact in other parts of 
society. Some examples of areas where IT can improve 
efficiency and reduce the consumption of resources are 
industrial processes, traffic flow and indoor climate. 
Cybercom has, for example, developed a remote 
control system for elevators.
Cybercom provides what is known as hosting of 
servers. This means that customers’ servers are run 
for them. Cybercom can carry out this work in a 
more energy efficient manner than if each individual 
customer were to run their own servers. 
Furthermore, IT can replace physical products and 
activities with electronic information. Some examples 
that are increasing in scope are e-commerce, electronic 
documents instead of paper and video conferencing 
instead of travelling. In addition the company can, 
by using the proper equipment, create the right 
environment for telecommuting, something that not 
only reduces physical journeys but also creates a more 
flexible workplace.
Cybercom has a well-tried offering of bundled services 
for government agencies, municipalities and county 
councils. Many of these services are designed specifi -
cally to reduce environmental impact by using services 
for remote meetings, meeting management (paper -
less), sustainability reporting and compliance with 
environmental policies. If you would like to find out 
more about these services they are described in detail 
in Cybercom’s catalogue of services.
http://public.cybercomgroup.com/wiki/FPP-003
http://public.cybercomgroup.com/wiki/CCE-124
http://public.cybercomgroup.com/wiki/SOF-001  
(please see video of paperless office)
http://public.cybercomgroup.com/wiki/SOF-012Cybercom’s infrastructure services also contribute 
greatly to the convenience of the citizen and make 
it easy to access services digitally and thereby reduce 
environmental impact.
http://public.cybercomgroup.com/wiki/CCE-110
The Cybercom group is active in interest groups that 
promote e-government issues in Sweden. Examples 
include the tax board’s Dialog project, where the board 
has special responsibility for the services addressed 
to private individuals. An exciting service that will be 
launched as soon as rule changes are implemented at 
the Ministry of Finance is a so-called authority mailbox 
to which individuals can choose to direct their commu -
nications. Sweden will reduce its environmental impact 
through this type of service.
Cybercom has developed a national database of 
predators, called the Rovdjursforum, for the Swedish 
Environmental Protection Agency. This database, and 
the digital functions that Cybercom is developing, is 
about creating the environment for sustainable and 
long-term wildlife management.
Cybercom has developed the MyRoc video conferenc -
ing system for Telia. Video conferencing reduces 
the need for physical travel and the emissions they 
generate.Products and services that  
reduce environmental impact
Environmental Protection Agency’s national database of predators 
is a  examples of services that Cybercom developed and that reduce 
environmental impact.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 16Social responsibility  
Employees and the workplace
To obtain a good understanding of employee 
satisfaction and development at Cybercom, 
the company conducted a group-wide 
employee survey in 2011. 
The survey showed that employees generally feel very 
committed to their work and can to a large extent 
influence their daily tasks. Furthermore, employees 
believe that communication within the company is 
frank and open. The work environment was perceived 
as good, with people showing respect for each other. 
Employees are particularly satisfied with their manager.
As an employer, Cybercom has plans to further 
strengthen the company’s brand and the career 
opportunities for employees. 
Cybercom has in 2011 implemented a number of 
changes among senior executives. In the context of 
this work, Cybercom has developed the company’s 
mission: ”Boosting your performance in the connected 
world”, the company’s vision: ”We are our clients’ 
most trusted business partner in the connected world” 
and Cybercom’s three core values: Innovation, Passion, 
Trust”. Visions, goals and values will be rooted in 
various forums in which employees interact.
In 2012, Cybercom will conduct a new employee 
survey, which will also measure the effects of Cyber -
com’s work in the areas of improvement.
One of Cybercom’s three major objectives is to 
increase employee satisfaction by the time of the 
next employee survey in 2012. Strengths
– Great commitment at work
– Satisfied with immediate manager
– Frank and open communication
– Opportunity to influence daily work
In 2011, Cybercom implemented a group-wide employee survey.  
The measurement was carried out by Zondera. Cybercom’s 
approximately  1 600 employees were asked in a web survey.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 17Stakeholder interview HR  Cybercom
Why has Cybercom conducted an 
employee survey?
The purpose of this survey is to further strengthen 
Cybercom’s role as an employer of choice for employ -
ees and as a partner for its customers. The employee 
survey is a tool that enables Cybercom to continue 
to improve our business. We examine areas such as 
leadership, information, professional development, 
knowledge of the group and terms of employment.
What can we be proud of?
The survey data indicates very strong and genuine 
leadership and a deep-seated culture of respect and 
appreciation from colleagues. What should Cybercom  
improve given the results?
Cybercom should invest more in professional develop -
ment to even better engage employees. Furthermore, 
it is important to reinforce our common values and 
thereby strengthen Cybercom’s employer brand. Carolina Jonnor, human resources, about the  
Cybercom group-wide employee surveyCarolina Jonnor, HR Cybercom. 
CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 18Development and retention of expertise
Cybercom has solid knowledge assets that 
the company must continually develop to 
remain at the forefront of the IT industry. 
Cybercom must ensure that it has the right 
skills within the company to meet customer 
needs.   
Therefore Cybercom invested in education during 
2011. Training hours increased by 40 percent 
compared to the year before. The increase occurred 
primarily in Sweden. Among other things, Cybercom 
has worked to develop its internal network of exper -
tise; internal networks of consultants where different 
experts teach each other and share knowledge. 
An important part of this is to have structured methods 
to monitor the skills development of individual 
employees. Cybercom achieves this through annual 
performance reviews, where the manager and the 
employee draw up individual development plans and 
goals for future years. 
Well-being of our employees
Employee well-being is of paramount importance to 
Cybercom and a prerequisite for us to be competitive 
and to grow our business. All employees must feel 
respected and relevant. No matter where in the world 
people work for Cybercom, they have the same rights. 
Through Cybercom’s code of conduct the company 
lays the foundation for the rights and opportunities 
that each employee has. Cybercom has zero tolerance 
for discrimination or unethical behaviour towards a 
colleague or business partner. All employees must, 
regardless of where they operate, have access to 
a healthy and safe working environment. Where 
relevant, staff are trained in health and safety. In our 
code we also state that Cybercom does not participate 
in political parties or organisations, and does not participate in lobbying activities or support these 
financially. All employees have read Cybercom’s code 
of conduct and will be trained in the code’s content.
Cybercom acts in accordance with the conventions 
and recommendations of the International Labour 
Organisation (ILO) and our remuneration exceeds 
minimum wage. The company’s remuneration must be 
competitive, as this is a very important factor in attract -
ing and retaining skills. Cybercom supports the right to 
freedom of organisation and association. In Sweden, 
around half of employees are union members. For the 
entire group it is a smaller proportion. 
Since Cybercom has operations in countries where 
freedom of association may occasionally be threatened, 
it is important to emphasise that this should not restrict 
employees’ ability to influence their work situation 
within Cybercom or restrict their rights. 
Country Sweden Denmark India Poland Finland Romania China Singapore Total
No of female employees 180 3 13 14 39 6 27 6 288
No of male employees 746 34 65 65 224 10 100 32 1,276
Total no of employees 926 37 78 79 263 16 127 38 1,564Cybercom Group: Workforce by country, 20112008 2009 2010 2011
Female 377 327 328 288
Male 1,605 1,491 1,399 1,276
Total 1,982 1,818 1,727 1,564Cybercom Group: Total number of employees  by 
gender, 2008 – 2011    +40%Training hours per emplo yee, 2010 – 2011
Cyber com Gr oup
No of 
hours
051015202530
2011 201019
hours27
hours+40%CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 19Cybercom works actively to ensure that men and 
women have equal opportunity to be home with their 
children. This applies to both care of sick children and 
parental leave. Among other things, the company has 
created economic opportunities for employees to take 
parental leave, with a parental supplement. In 2011, 
60 people claimed parental supplement in Sweden.
2008 2009 2010 2011
Women 200 186 165 180
Men 857 791 705 746
Total 1,057 977 870 926
Sick leave 1) 2.4% 2.6% 1.7% 1.8%
1) Sick leave as percentage of working hours.Cybercom Sweden, Labour force by gender 
and sick leave, 2008 – 2011   No of female employees in senior positions 41
No of employees covered by collective agreements 73%
Sick leave taken (as a percentage of working hours) 2%
Training hours per employee 27 hoursCybercom Group, Employees, 2011   Development and retention of expertise
CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 20Customers and suppliers
Cybercom is constantly striving to accomplish 
what we call +1. This means that Cybercom 
will always do its utmost. To find out what 
customers think of Cybercom, the company 
conducted a group-wide customer satisfac -
tion survey in 2011.
Cybercom’s customer  
satisfaction survey
In a group-wide customer survey, Cybercom asked 
more than 140 of its most important customers what 
they thought of Cybercom. 
The survey conducted shows that Cybercom’s custom -
ers are satisfied with Cybercom’s brand, its range of 
services and the sales force’s service-oriented approach 
to customers. 
Cybercom will concentrate even more on precision 
in the company’s delivery times and to further be 
responsive of customer expectations.
In addition to the group-wide customer survey 
Cybercom measures customers’ satisfaction on a 
regular basis.When Cybercom has completed a customer order, the 
customer fills out a questionnaire so that Cybercom 
can monitor how it has delivered and what can be 
improved.
Strengths
– Brand
– Range of services
– Service level among sales force
CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 21Customers and suppliers
Cybercom’s responsibility in relation 
to customers
Being responsible in relation to our customers includes 
observing what the customer’s and Cybercom’s 
products and services are used for. For example, if 
Cybercom is invited to do business in an undemocratic 
country or a country with a high risk of human rights 
violations, Cybercom evaluates the risk of making the 
situation worse for the people of the country. As part 
of the evaluation, dilemma discussions are held with 
the relevant functions within Cybercom. Rwanda and 
China are two examples where we decided to enter 
into business following an evaluation of the customer. 
In both cases Cybercom felt that improved internet and 
mobile telephony access are two vital tools in creating 
a more transparent society and for people to be able to 
practice their human rights and rights such as freedom 
of expression. In many cases, the Internet and mobile 
phones are crucial in pursuing business activities and 
being able to support oneself. Providing these services 
enables Cybercom to contribute to economic develop -
ment. In other cases, Cybercom has found the opposite 
and has chosen to turn down assignments.
Cybercom is obligated to do all it can to combat 
criminality within the framework of its business activi -
ties. Developing products that fulfil customer security 
requirements helps reduce the risk of them being used 
in irregularities. This is not only an obligation towards 
our customers but also to society in general and its citizens. One example of services where this is a central 
issue is the securing and certification of payment card 
solutions and internet bank platforms for the banking 
and finance sector. Cybercom also actively combats 
IT crime through fraud investigations and industrial 
espionage investigations in collaboration with interna -
tional police and law enforcement authorities.
Like many other IT and telecom companies, Cybercom 
has chosen to actively combat the spread of child 
pornography on the Internet. We do not collaborate 
with this type of company or companies related to 
these types of activity.
Cybercom’s responsibility to make 
demands of the supplier chain
Cybercom’s responsibility does not stop with what 
the company does. It is also about influencing the 
company’s suppliers and business partners. Cybercom 
has therefore set as one of its goals in 2012 to ensure 
that all subcontractors the company chooses to work 
with comply with Cybercom’s code of conduct. 
In 2012,Cybercom will therefore communicate 
and monitor that subcontractors comply with the 
code. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 22Cybercom’s community involvement
Ammar Raza on being a  
CSR ambassador for Cybercom
I have always believed that life is all about helping 
others, especially those in need. Peeping through 
the window on my past, the most memorable 
moments I can see are the ones in which I did 
something good to help others.
I wanted to get more and more involved in such 
activities, but never got a chance until I got to know 
about the Cybercom CSR programme and was then 
selected as a CSR ambassador. That was indeed a 
great moment for me, as now I knew Cybercom had 
given me the chance to be involved in social activities 
throughout the year.
Being a CSR ambassador, I considered it my responsibil -
ity to not only think of different ways to help the 
children in SOS Childrens’ Villages Rwanda, but also to 
help all other Cybercom employees understand what 
CSR is and to get them involved in it as well.  
I thus came up with the idea of giving all the employ -
ees an option of donating to help these children in 
SOS Children’s’ Villages Rwanda by briefing them on 
how and where the funds they donate are going to be 
utilised.
Moreover, as collecting funds is normally not easy 
because of employees being spread out on different 
projects throughout the world, I suggested that they get 
the amount they want to donate to be deducted from 
their monthly salary by sending an email to the payroll 
department. In this way we had one easy central point 
of collection and the response from the employees   was 
simply remarkable. Within one week the funds donated 
by the employees jumped to SEK 30,000.
The CSR team has planned to use these funds to set 
up a new computer lab with the latest computers at an 
SOS School in Rwanda.As they say, “Many a drop makes an ocean”, and as 
almost all employees got involved in the CSR activity  
and donated funds, we were able to make very 
handsome amounts, sufficient for a new computer 
lab. A lot of orphans will now have a good computer 
education because of the combined effort of all of you. 
You have taken a step towards building a better society 
and if all of us keep up this good work we sure will 
make a big difference.
The donations from employees are a clear indication  
that each and every one of us wants to help contribute 
to a better society; it’s just that a good platform 
is  needed. And now we have the Cybercom CSR 
platform we should not just stop here but carry out 
the CSR activities throughout the year. Thanks to 
Cybercom for giving us the opportunity to get involved 
in CSR activities and help in making a better society. 
 
Ammar RazaWhen Cybercom chooses community projects 
to become engaged in, the company starts 
with the markets in which it operates and 
looks at how Cybercom can contribute. 
Cybercom pays particular attention to the 
groups that are in need of support, groups 
whose development is particularly important 
for the development of a society, and which 
products and services that are of greatest 
benefit to these groups. Therefore, Cybercom 
has chosen to support two organisations:  
SOS Children’s Villages and the Childhood 
Cancer Fund.   Cybercom and SOS Children’s  
Villages in Rwanda
In 2011, our work continued with SOS Children’s 
Villages in Rwanda. Cybercom signed a long-term 
agreement with SOS Children’s Villages in 2009, and 
finances a major part of the activities at a primary 
school for 200 children in Gikongoro, Rwanda. Several 
trips were made to Rwanda by employees during the 
year and executive management also visited the project 
to show its support for the CSR work there.
Ammar Raza with one of the 200 orphanage children at SOS 
Childrens’ Villages in Gikongoro, Rwanda.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 23Choice of projects
The choice of project has a direct link to 
Cybercom’s operations. Cybercom runs 
customer projects worldwide, including in 
Rwanda, where the company has built the 
country’s third national mobile network for 
operator Tigo and is optimising the net -
work’s performance. Cybercom contributes 
to improving the living conditions in Rwanda 
by increasing the availability of cheap teleph -
ony. The new telephone network improves 
access to telephony, increases competition 
and cuts call prices, which benefits the user.
SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda
Through the Rwanda project, Cybercom supports 
SOS Children’s Villages as a way of helping to further 
develop the country. Cybercom is an international 
knowledge-based company looking to contribute 
to knowledge development in countries in which 
it has projects. Education is the basis for a child’s 
development and gives children a chance to escape 
poverty. Cybercom’s partnership with SOS Children’s 
Villages is a long-term project with repeat activities. 
All the subsidiaries are engaged in the children’s 
village in Gikongoro, and Cybercom’s commitment to 
SOS Children’s Villages is a source of pride among its 
employees.  In addition to the annual donation that Cybercom as a 
company contributes to SOS Children’s Villages, there 
was a collection among the employees. Those who 
wanted to could donate a portion of their monthly 
salary. The funds of a total of SEK 30,000 that were 
collected during one week have been put towards a 
new library with English books for the SOS Children’s 
Villages’ school in Gikongoro and will be invested in 
new computers in the new computer lab that an SOS 
Children’s Villages’ school in north-eastern Rwanda 
needs.
SOS Children’s Villages helps vulnerable children 
around the world. They give orphaned and abandoned 
children a home, a family and an education. SOS Chil -
dren’s Villages has been active in Rwanda for 30 years. 
The primary school in Gikongoro was built in 1992 
and consists of six classrooms that provide education 
for around 200 children from the Children’s Village, 
SOS Children’s Villages’ family assistance programmes 
and the surrounding neighbourhood every year. The 
primary school has doubled in size since it was opened. 
Computers were recently bought for the school to 
assist the teaching and for children to learn computing. 
Instead of giving Christmas presents, Cybercom 
donates funds to Rwanda. To customers and other 
stakeholders the company sends Christmas cards that 
have pictures of Cybercom’s support for vulnerable 
children in SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda.
Season’s Greetings
from Cybercom and SOS Children’s Village in Gikongoro, Rwanda.
Cybercom is a partner to SOS Children’s Villages, 
supporting the Village and it’s school in Gikongoro in lieu of gift-giving during the holiday season.
During 2011 the Village has given 120 children a home, a loving 
family, and the opportunity to educate themselves. The school  has also become very important to the Gikongoro area in general, providing an education to 400 children in total. This year, the  children’s education was enhanced by the receipt of new  computers,  and several children will soon start college.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 24Cybercom works with  
the Childhood Cancer Foundation
Cybercom also works on a project together 
with the Swedish Childhood Cancer Founda -
tion. When employees at Cybercom Sweden 
use payment cards in their work, SEK 135 per 
card per year is donated to the Childhood 
Cancer Foundation. The organisation has its 
logo on the company cards and Cybercom 
helps to promote the Foundation to other 
potential donors.  
In 2011 a total of SEK 75,000 went to the Childhood 
Cancer Foundation through this scheme. In 2012, the 
goal is to increase this collection by ensuring that more 
employees obtain this card.This CSR activity strengthens the company culture at 
Cybercom through the company and its employees 
being able to rally around an important issue. Cyber -
com is a young company with a relatively low average 
age and at Cybercom many employees have families 
with small children. Approximately 300 children are 
diagnosed each year with cancer in Sweden and 
Cybercom want to do something to help, while giving 
expression to Cybercom’s corporate culture. 
Cybercom also aims to launch a similar partner -
ship with the equivalent of the Childhood Cancer 
Foundation in Finland. The idea is that the company’s 
employees in the Finnish offices will also be able to 
obtain company payment cards.
CORPOR ATECyber com stödjer Ba rncancerfonden
CYBERCOM GROUP ABNAME NAMESSON
CYBERCOM GROUP ABNAME NAMESSON
5275 0012 3456 78905275 0012 3456 7890CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 25Appendix 1
Cybercom’s code of conduct in brief
1 – Comply with laws, rules and regulations
All Cybercom employees are responsible for acting in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 
They are responsible for gaining knowledge of the local conditions in the places where Cybercom oper -
ates. In the event of an individual issue demanding it, they will seek legal advice.
Cybercom applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. As a listed company on NASDAQ OMX, 
Cybercom follows the agreements for this listing and undertakes to provide relevant knowledge to all em -
ployees concerned. Cybercom must present and report financial and corporate information in compliance 
with the provisions laid down in national legislation, stock-exchange listing requirements and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).  
2 – Human rights
Cybercom respects human rights as laid down in UN conventions. Everybody in the organisation must 
show respect for the integrity and dignity of all people. Cybercom will not in any way contribute to the 
violation of human rights.
3 – Labour law and working conditions
Cybercom supports freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. 
Cybercom does not permit child labour. Cybercom applies the principle that a child is a person younger 
than 15 years of age unless national legislation states an older age, in which case the older age applies. 
Cybercom applies the definition of child labour as laid down by the International Labour Organisation (ILO). 
Cybercom does not tolerate any forms of discrimination. All employees have equal rights and must never 
be subjected to unjust treatment due to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or disability. All emplo-
yees must show respect for each other and for Cybercom’s business partners and will take responsibility 
for combating discrimination. Cybercom works unabatedly to combat discrimination. This permeates 
the company’s policies and processes during, for example, recruitment, setting of wage rates, and skills 
enhancement.   
Cybercom offers salaries that comply with the minimum wage, as laid down in national legislation, with 
correctly prepared employment contracts. Cybercom also ensures that working hours are not unreasonable 
and are at minimum compliant with national legislation. Cybercom seeks to give all employees time for 
rest with economic compensation.
Cybercom shall not in any way utilise forced labour and will always ensure that the working relationship 
between employee and organisation is at the employee’s own free will.
4 – Health and safety
Cybercom shall provide a healthy and safe workplace in compliance with internationally acknowledged 
standards. Cybercom works proactively to prevent accidents and work-related illnesses. All employees are 
offered health and safety training when and if required. Cybercom’s code of conduct is based on the UN Global Compact principles on human rights, 
labor, environment and anti-corruption. The code is for the employees. In 2012, Cybercom also 
intends to adapt the code to the company’s suppliers. One of Cybercom’s goals in 2012 is that the 
company’s suppliers are to meet Cybercom’s Code of Conduct.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 26Appendix 1
Cybercom’s code of conduct in brief
5 – Environment
Our aim is to minimise the company’s negative environmental impact. Cybercom respects the Precaution -
ary Principle and seeks to actively contribute to reducing negative environmental impact through responsi -
ble measures and technological advancement. Cybercom is in the process of environmentally certifying its 
offices. Cybercom always acts in compliance with laws and internationally recognised directives. 
6 – Prohibited business practices
Cybercom works actively to combat corruption and unethical practices. Employees must not give or receive 
gifts, benefits or bribes that constitute a breach of applicable law. Cybercom is politically independent and 
does not sponsor political organisations. Cybercom is opposed to any form of money laundering and will 
take the necessary measures to prevent financial transactions that are of criminal intent. 
Cybercom and its employees must never in any way play a part in anti-competitive activities.
7 –  Promote accurate disclosure in financial reports and  
other public communications
Cybercom shall be transparent and provide relevant information when so required. This means that the 
company shall always provide fair and correct information. Cybercom’s goal is for all communication to 
contribute to a stronger brand. 
8 –  Properly use and protect company assets and confidential information
All business decisions shall be made with the good of the company in mind. All consultants will be profes -
sional in their relationship with Cybercom and will not pursue competitive activities.
Customer trust is of vital importance to Cybercom. All employees will treat customer information in com -
plete confidentiality. Information about Cybercom’s customers may only be used in the implementation 
of the project in question. This confidentiality remains in force even after the project has been completed. 
Cybercom has clear guidelines for the handling of confidential information.
9 –  Protect our customers’ and partners’ confidential and  
proprietary information
Cybercom requires all employees to sign a confidentiality agreement. There are clear rules for the handling 
of, and access to, material belonging to Cybercom.
10 – Take a professional pride in the consultancy role
Freedom with accountability, and focus on the individual are contributory factors in Cybercom being able 
to attract highly skilled staff. Cybercom seeks to offer all employees the opportunity for personal and 
professional development. A workplace that is open, creative and flexible sets the course for being able to 
offer customers professional and attractive products and services.
To sum up, Cybercom shall always conduct itself ethically in its dealings with all its stakeholders. Cybercom 
shall be characterised by professionalism and integrity.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 27Appendix 2 
The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles
At the World Economic Forum in Davos in 1999, the UN’s secretary general, Kofi 
Annan, challenged the business community to take global responsibility. The secre -
tary general’s initiative led to the formation of the Global Compact, which includes 
principles of human rights, labour rights, environment issues and corruption in 
business. The principles are based on the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO 
core conventions on human rights in the workplace, the Rio Declaration and the UN 
Convention against Corruption.
Human rights
Principle 1
Businesses should support and respect the 
protection of internationally proclaimed human 
rights; and
Principle 2
make sure that they are not complicit in human 
rights abuses.
Labour
Principle 3
Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa -
tion and the effective recognition of the right to 
collective bargaining;
Principle 4
the elimination of all forms of forced and compul -
sory labour;
Principle 5
the effective abolition of child labour; and
Principle 6
the elimination of discrimination in respect of 
employment and occupation.Environment
Principle 7
Businesses should support a precautionary 
approach to environmental challenges;
Principle 8
undertake initiatives to promote greater environ -
mental responsibility; and
Principle 9
encourage the development and diffusion of 
environmentally friendly technologies.
Anti-corruption
Principle 10
Businesses should work against corruption in all its 
forms, including extortion and bribery.CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 28GRI Index 
This is Cybercom’s second sustainability report and 
 covers key impacts and the 2011 financial year. 
 Cybercom has chosen to apply the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) voluntary guidelines for reporting 
sustainability information, G3, at application level 
C. In drawing up the report Cybercom has taken 
into consideration GRI’s ten reporting Principles. The 
information contained in the Sustainability Report 
has not been audited by a third party, but Cybercom 
regards all the information in the 2011 Annual and 
Sustainability Reports, along with that on the company website, as being sufficient to meet GRI’s information 
requirements at application level C. Cybercom has in 
cooperation with Sustania Sweden AB produced the 
sustainability report 2011.
The information provided refers to the entire group 
unless otherwise specified. Certain limitations of the 
performance indicators have been necessary based 
on relevance and access to reliable information. This 
chiefly concerns energy consumption and carbon 
dioxide emissions. 
Reference abbreviations: 
Annual Report = AR, Sustainability Report = SR, Website = www
Complete: 
Partial 
Indicator Reference Description and/or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact's 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information. Comments
1.Vision and 
strategy
1.1 CEO’s comments AR 4-5, 
SR 4Interview with CEO Niklas Flyborg that 
starts on P 4 of Annual Report 2011 (AR) 
and "Cybercom’s sustainability vision and 
strategic objectives" in Sustainability Report 
P  4 (SR) Account of 
continued 
support for Global 
Compact
1.2 Description of 
key impacts, risks and 
opportunitiesSR 6 Cybercom's CSR efforts during the year 
and governance and management of CSR 
efforts Account of 
continued 
support for Global 
Compact
2. Organisational 
profile
2.1 Name of the 
organisationAR 9  
SR 1, 5Cybercom Group AB (publ) 
2.2 Primary brands, 
products and servicesAR 2  
SR 5 Summary P 2 of AR P X in SR. The 
company’s most important products are 
detailed in the AR P 12-13 
2.3 Operational 
structureAR 10  
SR 5Description and organizational diagram can 
be found on P 10 of AR 
2.4 Location of 
headquartersAR 69 P .O. Box 7574, SE–103 93 Stockholm. 
Visiting address: Lindhagensgatan 126, 
SE–112 51 Stockholm, Sweden 
2.5 Countries in which 
the organisation 
operatesAR 10 Sweden, Finland, India, Romania, Denmark, 
Singapore, China and Poland 
2.6 Nature of owner -
ship and legal formAR 2, 21  
SR 5Cybercom Group AB is a market-listed 
company traded on the NASDAQ OMX 
exchange 
2.7 Markets AR 8, 11  
SR 5Cybercom’s home market is the Nordic 
countries, but the company provides its 
services internationally. (More details in first 
paragraph AR P 11.) Information about 
different sectors/customers on P 8 of AR 
2.8 Scale of the 
organisationAR 2  
SR 5AR P 2 contains a description of the 
company’s scope (sales SEK 1,481m and 
1,564 employees) 
2.9 Significant 
changes during the 
reporting periodAR 2-3 AR P 3 summarises the company’s events 
during the year and P 3 lists key events per 
quarter 
2.10 Awards received 
in reporting period  Nominated in 
Jönköping County as 
outstanding company 
for CSR issuesCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 29GRI Index 
Indicator Reference Description and/or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact's 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information. Comments
3. Report  
parameters
Report profile
3.1 Reporting period SR 2 
3.2 Date of most 
recent reportSR 2 
3.3 Reporting cycle SR 2 
3.4 Contact point for 
questions regarding 
the report or its 
contentsSR 2 
Report scope and 
boundary
3.5 Process for defin -
ing report contentSR 2 
3.6 Boundary of the 
reportSR 2 
3.7 Limitations on the 
scope or boundary of 
the reportSR 2 
3.8 Basis for reporting 
on joint ventures, 
subsidiaries, etcAR Note 1 
P 31Note 1, P 31 of AR details accounting 
policies See Note 1 on account -
ing policies 
3.9 Data measurement 
techniques and the 
bases of calculations, 
including assumptions 
and techniques 
underlying estima -
tions applied to the 
compilation of the 
indicators and other 
information in the 
report  GHG and energy calcu -
lations based on World 
Resources Institute 
(2011) GHG protocol 
tool for stationary 
combustion, version 4.3 
and 1995 IPCC second 
assessment report
3.10 Comparability 
with previous reports 
3.11 Significant 
changes from previous 
reporting periods in 
the scope, bound -
ary, or measurement 
methods applied in 
the report The 2011 AR also 
includes the indicators- 
Many indicators and 
calculations include 
all Cybercom group’s 
companies and 
countries. But some are 
still reported only for 
Sweden.
GRI table
3.12 Table identifying 
the location of the 
Standard Disclosures in 
the report This is Cybercom's 
complete GRI table
3.13 Policy and 
current practice with 
regard to seeking 
external assurance for 
the report The information in 
the SR has not been 
audited by a third 
party, but Cybercom 
believes that the 
information in the AR 
and SR 2011, together 
with information on 
Cybercom’s www 
meets the disclosure 
requirements of GRI for 
application level CCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 30GRI Index 
Indicator Reference Description and/or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact's 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information. Comments
4. Governance, 
commitments and 
engagement
Governance
4.1 Governance 
structureAR 
Corporate 
Govern -
ance 
Report P 
61-67 The company’s board and management 
structure are detailed in the Corporate 
Governance Report P 61-67 of AR, with a 
figure illustrating the structure on the first 
page of this section.  Activities and 
decisions taken 
for implementa -
tion 1- 10
4.2 The chairman of 
the board’s role in the 
organisationAR 
Corporate 
Govern -
ance 
Report P 
61-66 Chairman Jon Risfelt is described on P 64 
in the AR. He is not included in Cybercom’s 
management group. Activities and 
decisions taken 
for implementa -
tion 1- 10
4.3 Independent and/
or non-executive 
board membersAR 
Corporate 
Govern -
ance 
Report P 
61-66 The company has an executive manage -
ment and a board with various members. 
Refer to table P 63 in the AR regarding 
dependent/indendent board members. Activities and 
decisions taken 
for implementa -
tion 1- 10
4.4 Mechanisms for 
shareholders and 
employees to provide 
recommendations 
or direction to the 
highest governance 
bodyAR 
Corporate 
Govern -
ance 
Report P 
61-66 Contact information and information about 
the AGM is presented in the AR, Corporate 
Governance report P 61-66 Activities and 
decisions taken 
for implementa -
tion 1- 10
4.12  Externally 
developed economic, 
environmental, 
and social charters, 
principles, or other 
initiatives to which 
the organisation 
subscribes or endorsesSR 4, 6, 9,  
26, 28 Activities and 
decisions taken 
for implementa -
tion 1- 10UN Global Compact 
principles and 
guidelines
Stakeholder  
engagement
4.14 Stakeholder 
groups engaged by 
the organisation SR 8, 
10-12 
4.15 Basis for identi -
fication and selection 
of stakeholders with 
whom to engageSR 11 
4.16 Approaches 
to stakeholder 
engagementSR 11
4.17 Key topics 
and concerns that 
have been raised 
through stakeholder 
engagementSR 11 
 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 31GRI Index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact's 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information. Comments
5. Economic 
performance 
indicators
Economic  
performance
EC1. Direct economic 
value generated and 
distributed, including 
revenues, operating 
costs, employee com -
pensation, donations 
and other com -
munity investments, 
retained earnings, 
and payments to 
capital providers and 
governmentsSR 13 Heading: Economic responsibility. Table 3: 
Cybercom Group Cybercom group: Created 
and distributed direct economic value
EC2. Financial 
implications and other 
risks and opportunities 
for the organisation’s 
activities due to 
climate changeSR 16 Heading: Products and services that reduce 
environmental impact. Describes how 
Cybercom’s products and service create 
opportunities for companies that need to 
reduce their emissions of greenhouse gasesPartial Principle 7
EC3. Coverage of 
the organisation’s 
defined benefit plan 
obligationsAR ‘Em -
ployees, 
employee 
benefits 
expense 
and remu -
neration 
to senior 
executives’ 
Note 3 
P 40Employee benefits are presented under 
'Employees, employee benefits expense 
and remuneration to senior executives' 
Note 3 P 40 AR Cybercom only has 
defined contribution 
pension provisions.
EC4. Significant finan -
cial assistance received 
from government Cybercom has not 
received any significant 
financial assistance 
from government in 
2011 
Market presence 
EC5. Range of ratios 
of standard entry level 
wage compared to 
local minimum wage 
at significant locations 
of operationSR 7, 
17-19Heading: Well-being of our employees Principle 1
 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 32GRI Index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact's 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information. Comments
6. Environmental 
performance 
indicators
Energy
EN4. Indirect 
energy consumption 
by primary sourceSR 15 Table 6: Cybercom group: Energy use 
and carbon dioxide equivalents by energy 
source, 2011Principle 8
EN5. Energy saved due 
to conservation and 
efficiency improve -
mentsSR 14 A list of some of Cybercom’s methods 
for reducing energy use and reducing 
environmental impact on P 14 SRPrinciple 8 & 9
EN6. Initiatives to 
provide energy-
efficient or renewable 
energy based products 
and services, and 
reductions in 
energy requirements 
as a result of these 
initiativesSR 16 The "Products and services that reduce 
environmental impact” section P 16 SR 
describes how Cybercom assists its custom -
ers to reduce their environmental impact Principle 8 & 9
EN7. Initiatives to 
reduce indirect 
energy consumption 
and reductions 
achievedSR 14 A list of some of Cybercom’s methods for 
reducing energy use and environmental 
impact P 14 SRPrinciple 8 & 9
Emissions, effluents 
and waste
EN16. Total direct and 
indirect greenhouse 
gas emissions by 
weightSR 14 Table 3A and Graph 1: Cybercom group’s 
air travel, Table 5: Cybercom group: Energy 
use and carbon dioxide equivalents by 
energy sourcePrinciple 8
EN18. Initiatives to 
reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions and 
reductions achievedSR 14 A list of some of Cybercom’s methods for 
reducing energy use and environmental 
impact P 14 SRPrinciple 7, 8 & 9
Products and 
services
EN26. Initiatives to 
mitigate environ -
mental impacts of 
products and services, 
and extent of impact 
mitigationSR 16 The "Products and services that reduce 
environmental impact” section P 16 SR 
describes how Cybercom assists its custom -
ers to reduce their environmental impact Principle 7, 8 & 9
Transport
EN29. Significant 
environmental impacts 
of transporting 
products and other 
goods and materials 
used for the organisa -
tion’s operations, and 
transporting members 
of the workforceSR 14 Table 3A and Graph 1: Cybercom group’s 
air travel, Table 5: Cybercom group: Energy 
use and carbon dioxide equivalents by 
energy sourcePrinciple 8
 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 33GRI Index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact's 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information. Comments
7. Social perform -
ance indicators
Employment and 
working conditions
Employment
LA1. Total workforce 
by employment type, 
employment contract, 
and regionAR 10  
SR 19Total staff by region can be found in 
AR p 10 – Operations and organisation. 
Heading: Well-being of our employees. 
Table 8: Cybercom group: Total number of 
employees by gender 2008-2011, Table 9: 
Cybercom group: Workforce by country
Employee/manage -
ment relations
LA4. Percentage of 
employees covered by 
collective bargaining 
agreementsSR 19 Heading: Well-being of our employees. 
Table 10: Cybercom group employees, 
2011Principle 1 & 3
Health and safety
LA7. Rates of 
injury, occupational 
diseases, lost days, 
and absenteeism, 
and total number of 
work-related fatalities 
by region SR 19 Heading: Well-being of our employees. 
Table 10 Cybercom group employees, 2011 
Table 11: Labour force by gender and sick 
leavePrinciple 1 Cybercom measures 
only absence due to 
illness, since other 
parameters required for 
the indicator are not 
relevant to our activities 
Training and 
education
LA10. Average hours 
of training per year 
per employee by 
employee categorySR 19 Heading: Development and retention 
of expertise. Table 10 Cybercom group 
employees, 2011
LA12. Percentage of 
employees receiving 
regular performance 
and career develop -
ment reviewsSR 19 All employees have 
annual employee 
reviews
Diversity and equal 
opportunity
LA13. Composition 
of governance bodies 
and breakdown of em -
ployees per category 
according to gender, 
age group, minority 
group membership, 
and other indicators of 
diversityAR 41-42, 
62-65Table 10 Cybercom group employees, 
2011. The AR contains tables for this on 
P 41 and detailed info on the company’s 
management on P 62-65Principle 1 & 6CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 34GRI Index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact's 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information. Comments
Human rights 
performance 
indicators
Investments and 
procurement 
practices
HR1. Percentage 
and total number of 
significant investment 
agreements that 
include human rights 
clauses or that have 
undergone human 
rights screeningSR 22 This process is described under the heading 
“Cybercom’s responsibility in relation to 
customers”Principle 1, 2, 3, 
4, 5 & 6Investment decisions 
include requirements 
and surveys but 
statistics are not 
currently maintained 
Non-discrimination
HR4. Total number 
of incidents of 
discrimination and 
actions takenPrinciple 1, 2 & 6 No cases of discrimina -
tion were reported in 
2011
Freedom of  
association and 
collective bargaining
HR5. Operations 
identified in which the 
right to exercise free -
dom of association or 
collective bargaining 
may be at significant 
risk, and actions taken 
to support these rightsSR 78, 22 This process is described under the heading 
“Cybercom’s responsibility in relation to 
customers” Heading: Well-being of our 
employees. Table 10: Cybercom group 
employees, 2011 Principle 1, 2 & 3
Society performance 
indicators
Anti-corruption 
SO3. Percentage of 
employees trained 
in organisation’s 
anti-corruption policies 
and proceduresSR 6, 19 Principle 10
SO4. Actions taken in 
response to incidents 
of corruptionPrinciple 10 No incidents of corrup -
tion or anti-competitive 
actions have arisen in 
2011CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 35GRI Index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact's 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information. Comments
Political perform -
ance indicators
SO5. Public 
policy positions and 
participation in public 
policy development 
and lobbyingPrinciple 10 Cybercom takes no 
political positions 
or participates in 
policy development and 
lobbying.
SO6. Total value of 
financial and in-kind 
contributions to politi -
cal parties, politicians, 
and related institutions 
by countryPrinciple 10 Cybercom does not 
engage in corruption, 
extortion or bribery.
Anti-competitive 
practices
SO7. Total number 
of legal actions for 
anti-competitive 
behaviour, anti-trust, 
and monopoly 
practices and their 
outcomesNo such incidents in 
2011
Compliance with 
applicable laws and 
regulations
SO8. Monetary value 
of significant fines and 
total number of non-
monetary sanctions for 
non-compliance with 
laws and regulationsIn 2011 Cybercom was 
not fined or sanctioned 
for non-compliance 
with laws and 
regulations
Product responsibil -
ity performance 
indicators
PR5. Practices related 
to customer satisfac -
tion, including results 
of surveys measuring 
customer satisfactionSee heading Cybercom’s customer 
satisfaction surveyCYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 36GRI Index 
Indicator Reference Description and or Table/DiagramReporting 
scopeRelationship 
with UN 
Global Compact's 
Principle 1-10. See 
Appendix 2 for 
more information. Comments
Marketing  
communications 
PR7. Total number 
of incidents of 
non-compliance 
with regulations 
and voluntary codes 
concerning marketing 
communications, 
including advertising, 
promotion, and 
sponsorship, by type 
of outcomesNo such incidents in 
2011
Customer integrity
PR8. Total number 
of substantiated 
complaints regarding 
breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of 
customer dataPrinciple 1 No such incidents in 
2011
Compliance
PR9. Monetary value 
of significant fines for 
non-compliance with 
laws and regulations 
concerning the 
provision and use of 
products and servicesNo such incidents in 
2011
  CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 37Definitions 
Biodiversity  
Biodiversity secures the necessary eco system services 
such as supplying us with food and water, and buffers 
the effects of climate change.
CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility)  
The concept of corporate social responsibility includes 
the responsibility a company takes for its activities, 
products and services, environmewntal, social and 
economic impact on society and stakeholders. 
UN Global Compact  
Is the UN’s strategic policy initiative to promote 
corporate social responsibility in the areas of human 
rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption. 
(www.unglobalcompact.org/)
Fossil carbon dioxide  
Carbon stored in the ground for a long time (over 
10 000 years) and is formed into oil, natural gas and 
coal. Combustion increases carbon dioxide in the 
atmosphere and thus further increases the greenhouse 
effect. 
The precautionary principle  
The precautionary principle in the EC Treaty from 1993 
is a basic principle of EU environmental policy. This 
principle means that action should be taken against 
a product, production or activity if there is evidence 
that they pose unacceptable risks to humans, animals, 
plants or the environment, although there is some 
uncertainty regarding the risks. 
Sustainable development  
The Brundtland Commission coined the term sustain -
able development in 1987 and it had an impact during 
the Rio conference 1992. The UN General Assembly 
decided in 2010 that a UN Conference on Sustainable 
Development (also known as Rio +20) will be held 
in Brazil in June, 2012. The parameter is “develop -
ment that meets the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations to meet 
their own needs.” The three dimensions of sustainable 
development - economic, social and environmental - 
should be coherent and mutually reinforce each other.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
GRI is an international organisation that has developed 
global guidelines for how companies should report 
on their sustainability efforts. The framework includes 
indicators for the organisation, stakeholders and the 
economic, environmental and social aspects.ILO 
International Labour Organization (ILO) is the UN spe -
cialised agency for employment and workplace issues. 
ILO seeks to promote social justice and internationally 
recognised human and labor rights.
Stakeholders  
Stakeholders mean stakeholders who have mutual 
influence and activities of the company, its services and 
its processes, both directly and indirectly. For example, 
employees, shareholders, customers, consumers, 
suppliers and partners.
ISO 26000 Social Responsibility  
An international guidance, standard and method for 
organisations to define, implement and monitor their 
social responsibility. The standard consists of seven 
main areas and seven principles.
ISO 14001  
An internationally recognised standard for certifying 
ones EMS. ISO 14000 is the name of the standards 
dealing with environmental management. These 
standards in turn, create an environmental manage -
ment system that can be easily integrated into existing 
operations.
Carbon offsetting  
A measure that provides a reduction of greenhouse 
gases equal to the emissions of greenhouse gases that 
the business would like to compensate for. 
Carbon dioxide (CO 2)
Carbon dioxide occurs naturally in the atmosphere and 
is involved in the photosynthesis and is also an effect 
of combustion.
SOS Children’s Villages  
SOS Children’s Villages Sweden is a member associa -
tion and part of the international umbrella organisation 
SOS-Kinderdorf International, which has its headquar -
ters in Innsbruck, Austria. SOS Children’s Villages is 
an independent, non-governmental organisation. The 
organisation takes care of orphaned and abandoned 
children and provides them a home, family and 
education.Cybercom Group AB (publ.)
P .O. Box 7574
SE-103 93 Stockholm · Sweden
Tel + 46 8 578 646 00
cybercom.com