CYBERCOM
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
Getting healthier with digital exercise | Meet our Makers of tomorrow  
Conversations about our digital future | What happens in the Innovation Zone ?
How the net positive works | Diversity and skills development   
The hottest tech trends | Cybercom safeguards online banking services
The Connected World: the road to a new tomorrow About Cybercom
Our vision
We want to be our clients’ most 
trusted business partner in the 
connected world.Our business concept
We help our clients to capture  
the opportunities of the connected  
world. We provide innovative and  
sustainable solutions by combining  
technical edge and strong  
business insight.Our values
INNOVATION
PASSION
TRUSTCybercom is an innovative IT consulting firm that 
enables leading companies and organisations to 
benefit from the opportunities of the connected 
world. Our consultants and the solutions they 
create take us all the way from e-services in the Nordic public sector to mobility in the Caribbean 
islands, streaming media and autonomous cars in 
Europe, national e-IDs, secure card payments, as 
well as health apps for the care sector, connected 
cranes and elevators and intelligent industrial robots. 
Cybercom was founded in 1995. Today, the 
company’s areas of expertise span the entire eco
-
system of communication services and IT security. We are a highly diverse company, with employees 
ranging vastly in age and of numerous national
-
ities. We are creating the world of tomorrow in 
unison, we are creative, fearless and inquisitive – 
always ready to challenge the status quo. We turn 
our words into action and empower change. We 
are the #Makers of tomorrow. 
Find out more at www.cybercom.comMakers of tomorrowCybercom – osCar City
jaform.se2017-03-24 · V3
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  1Contents
About the report: Cybercom presents an annual sustainability report in accordance with 
GRI. This is Cybercom’s sustainability report for 2016. The report is prepared in accordance 
with the GRI G4 international guidelines for sustainability reporting, Core option. In 2011, 
Cybercom signed up to the UN Global Compact and complies with its ten principles for responsible business. This report is Cybercom's annual communication about how we are living up to, and working with, these principles. Focus & boundaries: The information presented refers to Cybercom Holding AB and its group companies. Subsidiaries and joint ventures are accounted for on the basis of Cyber
-
com’s ownership interest. Any organisational boundaries are mentioned in connection with the reported information. Many aspects of sustainability have an impact beyond Cybercom’s 
legal framework, such as with our clients and suppliers. Cybercom regularly reports for each 
material sustainability aspect where it has its influence in the company's value chain. Contents
 2  Cybercom  in numbers 
Overview of financial numbers,  
where we are and our clients
 3  CEO’s comment
  Partnerships, collaborations  
and turnkey solutions
 6  The global goals
  UN sustainability goals 
 10  Outlook
  Megatrends
 12  Client cases
  A selection of our innovative solutions
 20  Interview
  Claudia Olsson and Peter Tyreholt  
on our digital future 
 22  How we add value  
  Our contributions to a sustainable society
 24  Cybercom’ s process
  How we create net positive businesses
 28  Clients
  Meet our Head of Sales, Bo Strömqvist
 30  Innovation Zone
  Interview with Daniel Kullgard,  
Innovation Leader at Cybercom
 32  Employees
  Meet three of Cybercom’s  
Makers of tomorrow
 38  Targets and outcomes
  Find out how we have managed in achieving 
our seven targets
 42  Interview
  Human rights lawyer Parul Sharma
 44  Corporate responsibility 
  Cybercom’s internal environmental efforts
 46  Chairman’s comment
  The right path forward
 47  Code of conduct 
  Our code of ethics and code of conduct  
in brief
 48  GRI information 
  Dialogue with our stakeholders
 52  GRI Index
  List of our GRI indicators3
20
443212102  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016About Cybercom
69%1,353.967.8
Business with 
sustainability effectsSEKm  
SalesSEKm
Profit after depreciation  
and amortisationCYBERCOM IN NUMBERSSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  3About Cybercom
A selection
ALMA MEDIA
ASSA ABLOY 
ERICSSON
SWEDISH DEFENCE MATERIEL  
ADMINISTRATION (FMV)
H&M
HUSQVARNA 
IKEAKONE
SWEDISH ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY
MTV OYOPETUSHALLITUS
1
OUTOTEC SWEDISH POLICE AUTHORITY 
SAAB 
SWEDISH TAX AGENCYSONY MOBILETOMTOM
VOLVO
VÄESTÖREKISTERIKESKUS
2
1) Finnish National Agency for Education
2) Finnish Population Register Centre
DISTRIBUTED VALUE 2016FIVE-YEAR REVIEWSWEDEN 
FINLAND
DENMARK
POLANDINDIA
DUBAI
SINGAPOREOur clients
We are hereAssignments  
in 20 countries Nationalities Employees45201,203
Operational performance and key figures12016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Operating income, SEKm 1,353,9 1,259,6 1,262,9 1,195,1 1,339,2
Operating profit/loss after depreciation and 
amortisation, SEKm2 67.8 38.3 65.8 60.2 0.3
Total assets, SEKm 895,0 879,4 1,265,9 1,228,7 1,354,2
Average number of employees 1,217 1,169 1,222 1,180 1,367
Number of employees at end of year 1,203 1,218 1,307 1,267 1,335
Operating margin, % 5.0 3.0 5.2 5.0 0.0
Equity/assets, % 48 44 73 70 60
1) In conjunction with Cybercom Holding’s acquisition of 
Cybercom Group, a new Group was formed on 1 December 
2015. Accordingly, the multi-year summary was prepared 
using a mix of the former and the new Group. The figures for the 2016 financial year pertain to Cybercom Holding. 
For 2015, the figures for the full period pertain to Cyber
-com Group, while the figures at 31 December pertain to 
Cybercom Holding. The figures for 2014 and earlier pertain 
to Cybercom Group.  
2) Operating profit after depreciation and amortisation 
pertains to profit before impairment losses on goodwill and 
a capital loss on the sale of a subsidiary. • Employee benefits, incl. social  
charges 59.4% 
•Other external expenses 37.2% 
•Investment activities 1.8%
•Net finance income/expense 0.4%
•Tax 1.1%
•Charitable donations 0.04%*
*SOS Barnbyar, Universeum, Hello World!*) The operations in Dubai and Singapore were subject to an MBO on December 31, 20164  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016PARTNERSHIPS, COLLABORATIONS 
AND TURNKEY SOLUTIONSThe world is suffering from a 
water shortage, and we are 
even seeing water-related chall-  
enges nearby in the Baltic Sea. Our oceans are growing increas
-
ingly polluted and filled with 
plastic. Water – clean water – is 
a prerequisite for sustaining life 
on Earth. Each and every litre 
we conserve makes a difference. Together, we can act to preserve 
and harness the oceans and mar-
ine resources in a sustainable 
way – SDG 14.CEO’s commentSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  5 Backed by tailwinds from a strong market, Cybercom 
is experiencing a highly positive trend. We are  
growing our share of sustainable business, our  
clients are more satisfied and our leadership index is high. Our positions in the Nordic region and Poland are strong.  We are halfway through our stra-tegic plan for 2016-2018, and see solid progress to-
ward our goals (p.38–39). Our new executive team in Finland has successfully reversed the trend from previous challenging years. In Denmark, Sweden and Poland, we are experiencing robust growth and strong profitability.
Agenda 2030
Cybercom is embracing the fourth industrial revolution in order to drive development toward Agenda 2030. Despite the political turmoil around us, I have noted substantial interest and robust initiatives among our clients to improve soci-ety using the opportunities afforded by digitalisation. Our clients include many of the world’s leading corporations and organisations and they are becoming increasingly involved in achieving the Agenda 2030 goals. At Cybercom, innovation, digitalisation and a reduced environmental impact go hand in hand with IT security, transparency and privacy. We endorse the UN Global Compact because we want to be involved, drive social developments and take responsibility – this serves as our guide in both the short and long term. 
Innovation toward a sustainable horizon
We foresee many new business opportunities in using our knowledge to guide our clients into new business models in which products become services, the circular economy takes root, privacy is protected, the exchange of knowledge is strengthened and democratic solutions are created locally and globally. Our passion lies in being inventive, in always thinking anew, and incorporating security and quality into the solutions we develop. This has led to actions such as introducing Innovation Zones at our offices, where we create prototypes and test our way forward. Our clients expect us to proactively take responsibility that goes beyond the technol-ogy. We have continued to develop turnkey concepts in areas including compliance, cloud solutions and V2X wireless com-munications (autonomous cars). All of these solutions have grown successfully during the year. Our agile team is also a factor in our success, particularly among our major industrial clients where we are involved in the forefront of areas such as 5G development. In line with our strategy, we are deliberately working with key select clients and expanding our presence with them. 
Focus and partnerships for the future
We are delivering our full array of services to an increasing number of our clients, which solidifies our partnerships and our ability to be more efficient in our delivery. Our focus is on four areas of expertise: Digitalisation, IoT, Security and Cloud Services, which we regard as the most pivotal in helping our clients with their digital transformation. This focus is what lies behind allowing our Region International team (the Singapore and Dubai offices) to take over our operations centred on mobile networks, in continued collaboration with Cybercom when joint business opportunities arise. In my assessment, this independence provides the best means forward for them, our clients in the region and us. I foresee partnerships and collaborations becoming an increasingly key element in the future of business, including internally at Cybercom, where the Embrace Collaboration – one of three main prongs of our strategy – generated positive outcomes at several levels of our organisation during the year.
Makers of tomorrow
For me, each and every employee is a fantastic asset. Together, we are driving development forward for both Cybercom and our clients. The business that we have secured and the solutions that we created in 2016 have taken us all the way from e-services in the Nordic public sector to mobility in the Caribbean islands, autonomous cars in Europe, national e-IDs, secure card payments, health apps for the care sector, connected cranes, elevators, industrial robots and other smart IoT solutions. Our numerous assignments are exciting, challenging and performed on a daily basis worldwide.  IT is a universal language with no nationality, which builds bridges across continents and catalyses a migration that enables growth. 
Cybercom currently engages staff from more than 45  
countries. Our industry will suffer from a deficit of more than 50,000 IT professionals in the Nordic region alone within a few years. As such, migration serves as an opportunity for us and gains a clear purpose within the framework of our sustainabil-ity efforts. Attracting and retaining employees is our greatest challenge. We are engaged in this issue and in sparking an interest in technology and the sciences. We collaborate with  
organisations including Hello World! and Universeum in order to achieve improvements. We are also focused on enhancing our brand to clarify what it is we specifically create – please  
feel free to have a look at our client cases and videos at  
cybercom.com. 
Endless possibilities on our continued journey
In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our fantastic em-ployees, partners and inspirational clients who made 2016 an important year. We have endless possibilities to continue to help our clients and Cybercom advance using digitalisation. I am proud and inspired to be able to stand at the helm on our continued journey. 
Niklas Flyborg
President and CEO CEO’s comment6  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016The global goals
Good health and well-being
Ensure healthy lives and promote 
well-being for all at all ages.
Physical inactivity is one of the ten 
biggest risk factors for premature death. Cybercom has developed a 
mobile app called Moverex that sup-
ports physical activity on prescription 
to deal with this.
Find out more on page 123
UN sustainability goals
Technology and innovation are important in helping companies, cities and societies 
progress in this direction. Digitalisation is an accelerator in the development toward a smarter future. The technology we have today is adequate, but we must harness it in an intelligent way, which requires changes among organisations, regulations and habits. In light of this, Cybercom took part in roundtable discussions at the UN Global Compact Private Sector Forum during the year. 
Cybercom plays a key role in explaining to its clients and decision-makers what 
underlying solutions are necessary to enable smart sustainability solutions. Without encryption, compression algorithms, cloud storage and real-time data, we could not create smart buildings, smart mobility or smart consumption patterns. We believe this to be the infrastructure of tomorrow for global sustainability. Listed below are a few examples of the contributions made by Cybercom in 2016.The UN has adopted 17 global goals, known as 
Agenda 2030, that world leaders have pledged 
to achieve. These goals aim to:
•  End extreme poverty
•  Reduce inequality and injustice in the world•  Solve the climate crisisSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  7The global goals
Gender equality 
Achieve gender equality and empow-
er all women and girls.
Cybercom’s goal is for women to 
represent 30 percent of our staff, since women represent 30 percent of 
those who graduate with technical 
degrees. We also highlighted the im-
portance of diversity in a filmed social 
experiment using our own AR-based True Colors app.
Find out more on page 365
Industry, innovation and  
infrastructureBuild resilient infrastructure, promote 
sustainable industrialisation and 
foster innovation.
Cybercom has developed an entire 
IT system for Husqvarna’s robotic 
Automower Connect lawnmower, 
which gives customers full control of 
the machine using an app.
Find out more on page 16 9
Decent work and economic 
growth
Promote inclusive and sustainable 
economic growth, employment and 
decent work for all.
Coop MedMera Bank enlisted help in 
securing its online banking services 
with Cybercom’s IdentityHub service 
to manage customer logins and 
multi-method authentication using Single Sign-On.
Find out more on page 17 8
Sustainable cities and  
communitiesMake cities inclusive, safe, resilient 
and sustainable.
Cybercom has helped load handling 
company Hiab to develop a solution 
to connect the company’s cranes. This allows customers to monitor 
their equipment in real time and thus 
optimise the structure and use of 
their fleets. 
Find out more on page 1311Quality education
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality 
education and promote lifelong learning for all.
In partnership with the Finnish  
National Agency for Education, Cyber-  
com has developed a solution that 
allows users to apply online for all 
searchable educational programmes 
in the country.
Find out more on page 134
Climate actionTake urgent action to combat climate 
change and its impacts.
Cybercom is a partner in a project 
using its OsCar solution that was ini-
tiated by the French government and 
the EU in collaboration with Renault and Peugeot, under which a large 
number of cars will be equipped with 
Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS). 
Find out more on page 1413
Partnerships for the goalsRevitalise the global partnership for 
sustainable development.
Cybercom has been a signatory of 
the UN Global Compact since 2011.
Find out more on page 417ASharing made easy
8  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016B
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  9Connectivity makes it easier to share things 
with each other. You can save money while  
giving nature a much needed break.
In ten years, many people will have 
opted to move out of cities as tech-  
nology enables a completely new way of teleworking. For instance, 
we can easily participate in virtual 
meetings using VR and AR technol-
 
ogy. However, the biggest trend in terms of cities is urbanisation, with 
more megacities emerging. This will 
require us to optimise our space, 
which is one of the catalysts of the 
sharing economy.
Claudia Olsson,
Future and Technology Analyst, 
 
Exponential and was named  
"Young Global Leader" by the World Economic Forum in 2017Servicification is an incremental advance in achieving circular re
-
cycling systems in which we value access rather than ownership. 
Instead of a linear system in 
which we create something that 
is ultimately disposed of, it can be 
reused several times. I find that more and more companies are 
interested in this, particularly in 
areas where connected tech-
 
nology enables something that was previously impossible.
Peter Tyreholt,
Business Developer, Cybercom❝ ❝10  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Outlook
 One of the greatest chal -
lenges facing humanity 
today is providing a 
growing global popu -
lation with healthy and 
nutritious food while  
also working within  
safe environmental boundaries. 
The EAT Foundation was 
launched in March 2016 by Dr 
Gunhild Stordalen, among others, 
with the aim of reforming the 
global food system so as to be 
able to supply a growing global 
population with quality food from 
a healthy planet. EAT is pursuing 
the development of guidelines for consumers and the private 
sector concerning sustainable 
and healthy food from farm to Sustainable  
food productionGlobalisation, urbanisation and digi -
talisation are three megatrends that 
have an impact on us and our envi -
ronment. Growing cities create new markets, which prompts the need 
for brand new business models and 
solutions. Meanwhile, trends in 
health and personal well-being are 
gaining an increasingly prominent 
role in public discourse. 
Excessive screen-time can make 
us passive, an overly sedentary lifestyle could become a new major 
health scourge and excessive food 
production is depleting our planet’s 
resources. Today’s rapid develop -
ments undeniably provide numer -
ous new opportunities, but they  
also yield sustainability risks. 
Digitalisation needs to be an -
chored by regulations and legisla -
tion. Security, privacy and a greater 
understanding of the world around us are all essential ingredients for 
being able to safely navigate the dig -
ital, urban and globalised world. 
On the following pages you can 
read about some of the trends,  
challenges and solutions influencing 
our world – both today and in the 
future.table. For our food management 
to become more sustainable, the 
earth’s resources must be used 
more efficiently and in a more 
environmentally compatible way, 
transportation must be reduced, 
and packaging must become more 
environmentally compatible and lead to less refuse and food waste.   
The EAT Stockholm Food Forum 
is an annual event that gathers 
 
experts in order to steer the food 
system towards greater sustaina -
bility, health, safety and fairness within the boundaries of our 
planet, and to provide a basis for how we can collectively change 
how we eat.
➔ www.eatforum.orgMegatrends
EATSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  11Outlook
 The new GDPR, General 
Data Protection Re-  
gulation, will impose more rigorous stand
-
ards on the handling 
of personal data, and 
may often entail major 
changes for companies in terms of IT systems. Companies must 
promptly begin reviewing what 
personal data they process and 
cataloguing their systems in order to define what measures need 
to be taken. On a broad level, 
this may involve taking outdated 
systems out of operation, and 
establishing and implementing 
processes. The regulation within 
EU, which is adapted to today’s 
connected society, entails more and 
stricter rules than under the Swed
-
ish Personal Data Act. There will be more severe sanctions for violations 
than before, which may result in 
fines of up to EUR 20 million or 4 
percent of global revenues.
Cybercom is helping its clients 
to gain clarity as to their current status and what must be done to 
achieve compliance before the reg
-
ulation comes into effect in May 
2018. Our information security 
consultants are collaborating with legal experts under an established 
process in order to assure clients’ 
systems based on the framework 
of the new regulation. Cybercom’s 
Compliance Portal enables compa
-
nies to swiftly begin the important 
task of cataloguing their processes 
and IT systems that manage per -
sonal data. Göran Dahlberg is the Head of Cybercom Secure Services. 
“We are in the process of 
cataloguing our own systems at 
Cybercom and helping numerous 
clients. It is important not to panic ahead of these efforts, despite 
being on a relatively tight timeline. 
It is a matter of pursuing long-term 
legal compliance and taking the 
right course of action from the 
beginning.” 5G
The fifth generation mobile 
network has quickly evolved 
from concept to more concrete 
solutions.  
Artificial Intelligence  (AI) 
and Machine Learning (ML) have 
accelerated in the past five years 
and are often used for product 
features from the major players, 
such as Amazon, Google, Face
-
book and Apple. 
Augmented Reality (AR)  
enhances reality by making 
objects visible in a real environ -
ment, and has gained substantial 
traction in recent years.
The Internet of Things (IoT)
 allows products and devices to 
be connected to cloud services 
and managed, updated and used 
regardless of their location. 
Low-Power Wide-Area  
Networks  
Wireless networks based on  
LPWAN and LoRa in particular, 
have really flourished this year. 
Robotic technology
and drones, including everything 
from social robots, commercial 
robots and autonomous drones 
used for deliveries and surveil -
lance, to industrial robotic arms.
Virtual Reality (VR) 
user interaction has made  
significant progress, and an 
increasing number of applications 
are based on VR.
■Security in 
a connected EuropeGDPR
The hottest  
tech trends at 
the Mobile  
World Congress 
in Barcelona Our health
 Although the fact that sugar is unnecessary 
is nothing new, it has generally been seen 
as fairly harmless. The impression that has 
emerged in studies over recent years is that large quantities of sugar can cause direct 
damage to the body.
“It is not a matter of counting calories, but 
of being aware of the fact that different types of calories have different effects on the body,” says Ann Fernholm, a 
science journalist whose dissertation focused on molecular biotechnology. She has used her background to immerse 
herself in the issue of diet and how sugar affects the body.
“The type of sugar known as fructose, which is found in 
white sugar, is processed by the body in the same way as al-cohol. It is absorbed by the liver, and when we overconsume 
sugar such as by drinking soft drinks and eating 
sweets, the liver starts to produce fat, which 
disrupts blood lipids and ultimately causes 
fatty liver. This was previously most commonly associated with alcoholism. Nowadays, about 
one in ten Western teenagers has fatty liver 
and the numbers are even higher for the adult population in the US, for example,” says Ann. 
“Sugar consumption in the Western world has 
essentially seen a constant rise since the mid-
1800s, from about 4 kilos of sugar to the current consumption 
levels of 48.5 kilos annually per capita.”
“If you examine sugar from a sustainability perspec-
tive, it gets even worse,” says Ann. “We talk about the importance of reducing consumption of red meat to save 
the environment, and that is important. Yet sweets have more of an unnecessary climate impact. We grow sugar 
beet in fertile soil, but then we discard all of the vitamins, 
minerals and fibre that are healthy for our bodies. We pro-duce white sugar using an energy-intensive process – pure 
calories that cause fatty liver, obesity and type 2 diabetes.”
According to a study conducted by the Swedish Institute 
for Food and Biotechnology, the production of marsh-mallows has just as much of a climate impact as pork pro-
duction. Swedish consumption of sweets and soft drinks currently causes enormous greenhouse gas emissions.
“ And we must remember that all of the calories from 
soft drinks and sweets are empty calories, while pork contains vitamins and minerals, such as iron, which our 
bodies need.”
“Exercise is an antidote to sugar, and a high sugar intake 
can be partially offset by exercise. Yet those who consume large quantities of sweet junk food will ultimately suffer 
poor health, regardless of how much they exercise,” says Ann Fernholm. “By taking a more proactive approach to im-
proving our well-being, society could save enormous sums 
of money every year on sick leave and healthcare costs.”
➔ http://ettsotareblod.se or annfernholm.se➔ www.folkhalsomyndigheten.se/
far/inledning/fysisk-aktivitet- 
och-halsa/
12  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Cybercom has 
developed an 
app that can help 
motivate patients who have received 
a prescription to 
engage in more physical activity. Getting healthier with digital exercise
 Most people are aware that ex-
ercising is important. It makes us healthier, more alert and we live longer. Yet not everyone is aware that avoiding exercise is comparable to smoking in terms of health effects. There is 
substantial scientific support to suggest that prescription of physical activity has positive effects on a number of medical conditions, in-cluding hypertension, cardiovascular disease, stroke, diabetes and breast cancer. The field of psychiatry has also established that exercise helps combat mental illness. At the same time, the estimated cost to society of inadequate physical activity is six billion kronor per year. 
The concept of physical activity on pre-
scription (PAP) has been around for 15 years, yet is nonetheless deployed rather spar -
ingly in the care sector. Of all the patients prescribed physical activity, only about half adhere to their prescription. 
Commissioned by Blekinge County Council, 
Cybercom developed a motivational service called Moverex. Patients are equipped with an activity bracelet that measures their pulse and thus level of activity, and this informa-tion is transmitted to a smartphone app containing the physical activity prescription. 
The app ensures that the patient main-
tains a sufficiently high pulse while exercis-ing (at least 60 percent of their maximum), provides reminders, and displays their pro-gress toward their weekly goal. In addition to the patients personally being able to mon-itor their progress, their care providers can also see the results and so provide coaching and motivation to help them achieve the prescribed level of exercise. Cybercom’s Johan Persbeck is among those who have worked on the development of this solution. 
“We have drawn inspiration from sources 
such as the world of gaming, which is adept at triggering the reward system. Patients are motivated and prompted to get involved using elements of the pleasure derived from gaming. For instance, patients can compete with themselves, swap tips with others on social media, share success stories and encourage one another. One of the most powerful motivators is feeling acknowledged and knowing that someone cares about what you are doing. For this reason, the person who issued the prescription can also send messages and coach the patient.” 
The National Board of Health and Welfare 
requires PAP prescriptions to be monitored, which in the past has meant that the patient must be called in for additional meetings. Moverex eliminates the need for this since patients can be monitored using the app. There are numerous advantages for the county council: healthier patients and cost savings thanks to fewer meetings.
“The project is based on a key element of 
Cybercom’s core values, and we believe that using digital resources is the right approach in solving many of the problems facing the world today. By making it easier and more fun for patients to monitor their prescribed physical activity, we hope to improve patient health, which can reduce costs for society and the healthcare sector,” says Johan Persbeck. 
An initial pilot project was conducted in 
2016 and the results surpassed our expec-tations. Motivation increased substantially among the pilot subjects, which resulted in a reduction in both medication levels and waistlines. Two pilot projects are currently in progress under Blekinge County Council, and more county councils are lined up to run trials of the app.”
Client cases
Physical activity on prescription (PAP)
• PAP allows patients to be prescribed some form of 
physical activity in addition to, or in certain cases as 
a replacement for, pharmaceuticals. 
• This activity then becomes part of their treatment 
and is adapted to each individual’s circumstances 
and preferences. 
• A prescription for physical activity can be issued by 
all licensed healthcare professionals. 
• All county councils have offered PAP since 2008, 
although only a tiny fraction of doctor visits result in a PAP . 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  13
Client cases
HIAB’S DIGITALISED CRANES MAKE  
CITIES MORE SUSTAINABLE
 The management of Hiab, a load 
handling company, realised early 
on that connectivity and the In -
ternet of Things (IoT) would soon 
become powerful forces for the 
industry to contend with. They identified two major global trends 
influencing the logistics industry: sustainability 
and urbanisation. 
Hiab’s end customers include contractors, 
freight companies and leasing companies. Hiab 
assumes that customers often know very little 
about the actual use of the loading equipment – the business that generates its revenues. Hiab identified the need for a visionary and expe
-
rienced partner to draw up product and service development strategies based on global trends. 
The company selected Cybercom, which has 
provided Hiab with advisory services, project 
management, software development and service 
design. Initially, the project involved formulating their ambitions and strategies, and identifying 
which new customer values they could accom
-
modate through their services. 
One of the solutions that Hiab developed in 
partnership with Cybercom was to connect all of 
the products and link them to an interface that allows the customer to monitor their equipment 
in real time. The initial customer value lies in the 
end customer gaining an updated overview of 
how their cranes are being used and in what Easier to  
apply for  
educational 
programmes 
in Finland
The Finnish National Agency for 
Education has consolidated most of 
the country’s university programmes 
under one umbrella and has enabled 
students to apply via its website at 
Opintopolku.fi. The aggregated digital 
solution makes the application process more fluid for students, and increases 
the chances that young people will go 
on to higher education. The solution 
was developed by the Finnish National 
Agency for Education in partnership with Cybercom, which is also in charge 
of maintaining the site. 
“During the development phase, 
we integrated a number of 
application services that were previously independent of one 
another. This simplifies the 
application procedure for stu
-
dents and substantially reduces 
maintenance costs,” says Laila 
Puranen, Application Manager at the Finnish National Agency for 
Education. 
Using Opintopolku.fi, applicants will 
also be able to apply for financial aid from the Social Insurance Institution of 
Finland during the same process, thus 
further streamlining the application 
process.   
Saku Haarala at Cybercom Finland is 
Service Manager for the service.
“In addition to improving the appli
-
cation procedure, we foresee a major positive impact on the environment 
by reducing traditional post and paper used for application documents and 
admission decisions,” notes Saku 
Haarala.way. Based on this information, the customer 
can optimise the structure of its fleet and 
streamline the planning of what jobs are being 
done, as well as when and where. 
Rafal Sornek, Vice President Technology and Quality Development at Hiab, is satis
-
fied with the partnership.
“Cybercom helped us to make the first 
steps in our Connectivity journey and they  
stayed focused on creating customer value  
from the very beginning and throughout the entire journey. Taking this journey 
alone would certainly be interesting, but 
what’s the point in discovering neighbour-
 
ing islets when the big ocean is calling?”
“In the future, optimisation will become even more important as limits are imposed on 
resources in order to meet global sustainability 
targets,” maintains Peter Tyreholt, a Business Developer at Cybercom.
“We have provided Hiab with concrete 
assistance in adopting an abstract approach in everything from connecting its products to how 
to generate customer value from this. It’s a rela
-
tively complex journey for a traditional product 
company, but they have succeeded very well.” 
Thanks to digitalisation, Hiab has also been 
able to launch service contracts to guarantee 
that the equipment works well. 14  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016TECHNOLOGY FOR 
AUTONOMOUS CARS
Cybercom – osCar City
jaform.se2017-03-24 · V3
Client casesSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  15 Driverless cars allow transporta-
tion and cities to be planned in a completely new and revolu-tionary way, since technology is infinitely better at driving cars than humans are. Science fiction? No, probably not. This debate has evolved from dis-
cussing whether we will have autonomous cars to when they will become a reality. 
An autonomous car is controlled by an 
automatic driving system that does not need a physical driver. Most auto manufacturers are currently working intensely on projects in this field, and even companies like Google and Apple are in the race.
“We are heading towards an era when 
autonomous cars will be the new norm,” says Kristian Palm, Head of Business Unit at Cybercom, who is involved in the develop-ment of the new technology. 
An example of a key role for Cybercom is 
as integration and software development partner in the SCOOP@F project. This pro-ject was initiated by the French government and the EU in partnership with auto manu-facturers Renault and Peugeot. In the years to come, a vast number of new cars will be equipped with Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS). ITS is based on wireless technology that enables cars to communicate with one another via Vehicle to Vehicle (V2V) and with overhead traffic systems through Vehicle to Infrastructure (V2I).
The systems are key pieces of the puzzle in a 
world of autonomous cars, as they can take into account the events around them on the roads and process the trajectory, speed and intentions of other vehicles.  “They obtain information on everything from accidents ahead, slippery road condi-tions and parked cars to the speed of other vehicles and pedestrians, all while process-ing this information exponentially faster than human drivers,” says Kristian. 
Initially, the V2X systems (Vehicle to 
everything) will primarily be used for Ad-vanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS), prior to being developed into fully autono-mous driving. This means, for example, that drivers could be assisted with braking before they manage to react to external factors, thus avoiding collisions. 
Cybercom possesses extensive experience 
in software development and products for mass-produced vehicles, not least in the form of more than 30 million installations of the BlueGo application framework, Cy -
bercom’s proprietary Bluetooth software for advanced vehicle infotainment systems. 
This type of service will become more 
relevant once drivers no longer need to focus their attention on driving the car. Cybercom is also pursuing the new, propri-etarily developed communication software product, OsCar, which, like SCOOP@F , is being integrated into cars in order to enable communication with other cars, infra-structure and other factors in the vehicle’s surroundings. 
• Autonomous cars require less street 
surface, and traffic lights and signs 
become superfluous as the cars are 
communicating with one another  
and an incorporated, overhead  
framework.
• When traffic flows efficiently, 
without congestion and jams, energy 
consumption will decline dramatically.
• Asphalt parking lots can become  
residential areas and verdant parklands once parking no longer 
becomes necessary in proximity to 
 
the destinations. 
• Nine of ten accidents are caused by humans, so traffic accidents will 
essentially be eliminated. Advantages of  
autonomous cars                          Entertain the thought. It is time to go home 
and you order a car to the office, get in and settle into 
your seat. Once you arrive, you get out and the car drives 
away – no garage needed and you do not need to think 
about finding  a parking space.INTERVIEWClient cases
WE ARE HEADING  
TOWARDS AN ERA WHEN 
AUTONOMOUS CARS WILL
BE THE NEW NORM❝16  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016CLOUD SERVICES 
FOR FINNISH MEDIA COMPANY 
Robots 
mow 
the lawnHusqvarna Group is a world-leading producer of outdoor 
products including chainsaws, trimmers, robotic lawnmowers  
and garden tractors. Given Husqvarnas clear focus on user- dri -
ven product development it was a natural step to integrate the Internet of Things (IoT) into the product range. Its first launch 
was the Automower® Connect robotic lawn mower. 
In order to retain an experienced partner in the development 
project, Husqvarna turned to Cybercom, which developed 
the entire IT system, including both back-end and front-end components for the robotic lawn mower. The Husqvarna Auto
-
mower® Connect was launched in 2015 and was a resounding 
success. The solution gives the end user peace of mind and 
convenience by enabling remote control and monitoring of 
the robotic mower using an app. It offers full control of the 
mower from any location. The user can start, stop and park 
the Automower® Connect, view and modify the clip settings 
and receive alerts and track the mower’s GPS position – with a 
smartphone. The IoT solution also improves security through 
notification of the owner if the mower is moved outside a 
designated area. The security feature also makes it possible to 
track the lawnmower.
Since Automower® Connect was first launched, Cybercom 
has continued to provide development and maintenance 
support for the IoT system and has been involved in Hus-  
qvarna’s organisational transition from having a clear focus  
on products to an increasingly distinct focus on services. Client cases
 All TV viewers in Finland are familiar with  
channels MTV3, Sub and AVA, which are  
provided by the country’s largest media  
company MTV. Thanks to its new online TV  
service MTV Katsomo, viewers can watch 
programmes from their channels at any time 
on any device. The solution is based on the cloud service Amazon Web Services (AWS). As a development and 
 
maintenance solution for its cloud platform, MTV has selected Cybercom and its Passionate Support AWS 
 
service. The service includes infrastructure, design of  
AWS environments, implementation, maintenance and round-the-clock service. 
“Our experience of Cybercom as a cloud services partner is excellent. Our partnership with Cybercom 
and the skills of its consultants in cloud platforms 
mean that we can focus on our core business and develop new digital services,” says Risto Koivula, 
CTO at MTV Corporation.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  17Cybercom safeguards Coop  
MedMera Bank’s online services
 IdentityHub is a unified platform built on the concept of iden-
tity federations. The service manages various login methods, and connects user catalogues and applications or cloud services. The service offers the “one user, one login” feature, known as Single Sign-On. 
Having a single login platform for all applications and ser -
vices creates considerable flexibility and results in lower costs for companies. IdentityHub supports a large variety of differ -
ent authentication methods, including Bank-id and Mobile Bank-id, one-time text message passwords, professional identity cards,  Coop MedMera Bank was looking for a solu -
tion capable of managing customer logins and 
authentication using several different methods via a single login procedure. After searching the 
market, they selected Cybercom’s proprietarily 
developed IdentityHub service.Client cases
HW tokens, 3DSecure for debit-card payments and federated login.
Björn Lindeberg, Business Manager at Cybercom, says:
“There is vast potential in customised applications in which the 
user has a secure digital identity. Two-factor authentication was previously technically complicated, but IdentityHub’s use of the fed-eration principle and open standards creates new opportunities.”   
CLOUDeID is the cloud version of IdentityHub. “There are several advantages to hosting services in the cloud,” 
explains Björn Lindeberg. “It is easier to get started and easier to update the services. Meanwhile, the solution still delivers on the operation’s requirements concerning digitalisation and maintaining security. We are increasingly noting that customers do not want to maintain the services themselves – only offer them – in which case we opt to locate this type of solution in the cloud.”
Carita Weiss is CIO at MedMera Bank and was in charge of devel-  
oping the services for Coop. 
“We have worked in intense and close cooperation with Cyber -
com in the past year, and I consider them a valuable partner. They 
are flexible, reliable and they solve our problems swiftly.”A
18  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Secure and connected
❝We have worked in intense 
and close cooperation with 
Cybercom in the past year, 
and I consider them a valuable 
partner. They are flexible and 
reliable, and they solve our problems swiftly. 
Carita Weiss,
CIO MedMera Bank
B
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  19We always consider both the function and the  
security of our solutions. This creates reassurance 
for both you and your customers. 
 Using Cybercom’s own cloud-based IdentityHub 
service, MedMera Bank gained a more secure and 
more flexible login for its online banking services.
There is vast potential in cus -
tomised applications in which 
the user has a secure digital 
identity. IdentityHub creates 
new opportunities.
Björn Lindeberg,
Business Manager
Cybercom❝
IdentityHubA CONVERSATION ABOUT
20  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Interview
 Claudia and Peter, what op -
portunities do you foresee 
with the connected world in the future?
Claudia: New technology 
could, for instance, contrib-
ute to an improved quality of life in the healthcare sector, where there is greater scope for taking a proactive approach to keeping patients 
healthy. We can also improve psychiatric health using technology. If you look at the education system, courses will increasingly be based on the individual’s circumstances and knowledge to offer the right level. At the wider social level, safety will improve, such as through autonomous cars on the road. Of course another incredibly important issue is sustainability, which is an area where tech-nology gives us the opportunity to better conserve our resources. Ultimately, we will also be able to strengthen our democratic systems using technology, and allow for secure digital voting.
Peter: Another aspect is that, in the 
future, we will be able to measure the results everything we do to a greater degree, and ensure we are doing the right thing. Today, many things are done on the basis of opinion. If you instead measure your results every time and get rapid feedback, then you’re also able to make corrections early on. A good example of this is the world of apps and the internet, where rapid developments are driven by instant feedback. The steeper the learning curve, the better the things we can build – and that has a positive impact on our world. 
What barriers need to be overcome for 
technology to achieve its full potential? 
P: Many of the barriers are there for a rea-
son, such as legislation, privacy and security. 
So although the technology may already exist, it’s often a matter of timing. If we can adapt the legislation and try to remove some of the barriers then we can be more effective at a significantly lower cost. Healthcare is a good example. Many healthcare appoint-ments do not currently require a physical presence but, despite this, digital appoint-ments by video were long impossible due to regulations. Nowadays, a number of county councils are even replacing their healthcare providers for digital appointments, which saves substantial resources for society. An-other barrier is the major focus on technol-ogy, when instead we should be discussing customer value and what we are looking to achieve. Only then can we choose the right technology. 
C: It is also becoming incredibly impor -
tant to convey the value of sharing data. Regardless of whether we look at healthcare systems or traffic systems, there are vast optimisation gains to be made for society as a whole. In Silicon Valley, I have often seen autonomous cars driving around. This can feel disconcerting since we’re used to having eye contact with a driver, but we also know that autonomous vehicles are safer than human drivers and implementing them will save many lives. This needs to be clearly conveyed so that more people are willing to adopt the technology.Our digital  
future 
We meet Future and Technology Analyst Claudia Olsson  
and Business Developer Peter Tyreholt  at Cybercom 
to discuss the future and what digital technology will  
mean for our society.
WE WILL IDENTIFY NEW 
SOURCES OF PROTEIN IN THE FUTURE, RANGING FROM 
VARIOUS TYPES OF 3D-PRIN-
TED AND LAB-GROWN FOODS, SUCH AS MEAT AND MILK.❝SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  21Interview
Our digital  
future 
Claudia Olsson runs the consultancy Exponential, which assists  
companies and governments in matters of strategy, analysis and 
implementation. Claudia also serves as Associate Faculty at the future-  
based university Singularity in Silicon Valley and was named a 
“Young Global Leader” by the World Economic Forum 2017.
Could the Western world be overtaken 
by developing nations due to being stuck with antiquated mind-sets and outdated technology? 
P: I certainly think that’s a possibility. 
Several of the companies I’m currently 
working with have a long history, which used to be a competitive advantage. Now that all data suddenly needs to be shared and all IT and business systems communicate with one another, this heritage instead becomes a considerable disadvantage. This allows new operators that have based everything on modern technology right from the very beginning to easily overtake us. Many African countries are already way ahead of Sweden in terms of mobile-first solutions, mobile money and mobile banking systems like M-Pesa.
How likely is it that we will see drones 
delivering packages to us? 
P: I think it will be challenging to use 
drones in densely built urban environments 
but, if we look beyond cities, this is already a reality. The Finnish postal service, for exam-ple, is using drones to send medicine out to islands on a trial basis. Inner-city transpor -
tation routes can be optimised using effi-cient logistics, and other solutions are also possible for making deliveries. Volvo’s In-car Delivery concept, which delivers packages to the boot of your car in the office car park, is interesting in terms of deliveries, as are food deliveries straight to your refrigerator using a digital one-time code for a security alarm on the front door. 
C: When it comes to drone technology, 
there are clearly safety issues over urban deliveries that need to be overcome. It is currently more common to use autonomous flying vehicles in areas such as agriculture, 
forestry and surveillance. Further down 
the line, countries that lack traditional established infrastructure may be potential markets for drone deliveries. In many cases, drone technology may even be faster to implement for transportation than building traditional road networks and transport systems. However, making this possible requires improvement to technological skills and investment in knowledge transfer in emerging areas.
Food production is currently a significant 
problem and could lead to even greater burdens on our world in the future. What opportunities are available?
P: There are considerable advantages to be 
gained from developing digital technology in food management. Today, much of this is 
based on centralisation and economies of scale to enhance efficiency and reduce costs. However, just as AirBnB has revolutionised the housing industry by creating an effective platform that allows you to rent to the right people for a small administration fee, this same approach can be implemented in the food industry. 
Local small-scale producers have had a 
tough time reaching a wider market, but as an example, ICA, a Swedish grocer, has now built a platform that allows all shops to buy local products, and allows local producers to be listed in the system despite having limited production. 
C: I see three distinct food trends. First, the 
safety aspect of using blockchain technology and other secure database technologies to be able to track where food comes from and what additives are in it. I also think we will identify new sources of protein in the future, ranging from various types of 3D-printed and lab-grown foods, such as meat and milk, to new types of crops produced through technological advances in synthetic biology. The third strong trend that I believe in is functional food. In the future, food will have more properties than it currently does, such as healing characteristics. Peter Tyreholt is a Business Developer and Senior Advisor 
at Cybercom with a background in several start-ups within 
apps, connectivity and telecoms.      
22  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016How we add value 
The road to a  
new tomorrow
At Cybercom we believe it is important to take 
responsibility for how people, the environment and society are affected by our operations and, ultimately, the operations of our clients. The greatest potential of a consulting company is our ability to influence our clients and, by exten -
sion, their users and end customers. Cybercom drives development in the right direction and at an increased pace. We address our clients based on four key societal trends that we monitor, and where we are experts from a connected perspec -
tive. We approach these trends using our innova -
tive, secure and effective solutions to contribute to profitability and sustainable development through, for example, cost savings, energy sav -
ings and, above all, reducing the consumption  
of finite resources. Digitalisation affects not only the charac -
teristics of products, but also the relevant 
business models, often in the form of 
servicification, whereby companies increas -
ingly offer services rather than products. 
Achieving success often requires a fundamental shift 
in the perception of how to create value for the end customer. When a product is connected, allowing 
the collection and analysis of data, it becomes 
possible to optimise and streamline its use. Individ
-
ual contexts become connected contexts, where 
everything is optimised in systems rather than in an 
individual product. Key sustainability impacts include greater security and reduced energy consumption. 
To ensure its long-term competitiveness, industry 
must embrace sustainability and digitalisation, two 
keywords in future corporate positioning. With our 
advisory services, we help companies with feasibility studies and implementation to position their services 
in the connected world. IndustryCONNECTED
4     
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  23How we add value
 The spread of digitalisation changes the 
relationship between companies and 
consumers. A company no longer sells a 
product, but rather a solution to a customer 
problem. What were previously associated 
services could tomorrow become more profitable than the product itself. Business models are chang
-
ing, and companies need to adapt to existing trends 
such as social media and online commerce. But new 
trends like smart homes are also rapidly emerging. It 
is likely that different ecosystems of owners and par -
ticipants will emerge. For example, security solutions 
installed in homes could become ecosystems that 
can also be carriers of connected services from other 
suppliers, such as health monitoring or secure trans -
fer of single-use codes for locked doors for home 
deliveries. Cybercom is able to deliver the technical 
solutions for future ecosystems, and manage them in flexible cloud services.  By around 2050, just over 70% of the earth’s 
population will live in urban environments 
covering an area three times bigger than 
in 2000, according to a UN report*. This 
means that a substantial number of the 
cities of tomorrow have not even been built yet. Urbanisation yields significant opportunities to make the cities of the future more sustainable in terms 
of energy consumption, infrastructure and waste 
management. Digitalisation enables us to make 
better use of our resources, intelligently, sustainably, 
and in an ethically defensible way in urban life. Smart homes are the close perspective, and many 
smart homes create the building blocks of a smart city, with even more efficient functions. The city be
-
comes a device, able to control how it uses energy, to avoid traffic jams or manage electric driverless 
cars that communicate with each other and with their surroundings. This will also affect corporate 
business models and the relationships between the 
customer and industry, which the city must embrace 
and become a part of. We have an important role to 
play in this as an enabler, with the combination of our understanding of the connected world and our 
technical expertise. Society faces a huge challenge in the form of the expectations of its citizens for digitalisa
-
tion, apps, communication in many different channels, paperless forms, and the ability to 
easily interact with the community. This 
places completely new demands on public authorities in terms of mind-set and the building of systems, not only for ease of use, but also for 
security, identity management, and compliance, 
which must all be managed from a totally new 
perspective. One important trend is the aging 
population, with a rising dependency ratio. Should we use digitalised solutions such as health 
monitoring and automation? This is an interdiscipli
-
nary challenge with ethical, technological, political, economic, and business perspectives brought to the 
fore, and as advisors we must be able to handle every aspect. Consumer City CitizenCONNECTED CONNECTED CONNECTED
* UN report on urbanisation: http://cbobook.org/24  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Cybercom’s process
Global challenges are 
creating new business
Innovative start-ups, technological developments and a 
digital generation are today challenging many traditional industries and established truths. We all need to think innovatively and responsibly. Cybercom is making a con -
tribution with its newly developed Sustainable Digitalisa -
tion Advisor service. Within the framework of our advi -
sory services we help our clients to understand how they can contribute to a net positive impact on society.
The net positive is a new way of doing 
business. It simply means giving back more 
to the environment or society than an orga -
nisation takes out, with an overall positive 
net effect. We can already see today that 
organisations that strive to become net 
positive strengthen their brands, deliver 
strong earnings growth and attract the best 
talent. Every organisation must choose its own unique path, but the objective is the 
same: profitable organisations that improve 
the world.
The reason Cybercom is aiming to create 
more net positive operations is based on a 
few clear trends.
• More and more companies realise that 
they can contribute to the UN’s global 
sustainability goals, such as by becom-
 
ing net producers of renewable energy or creating products that have a positive 
environmental impact.
•  There is strong servicification in many 
fields, which means a shift from products to services. •  There is dematerialisation, whereby 
consumers receive the same or similar services, but with less consumption of natural resources. 
One sector that has experienced these 
trends is the music industry, which has 
been completely remodelled after consu
-
mers began to subscribe to digital services instead of buying CDs. A similar develop
-
ment is taking place today in areas such as transport, real estate and food. What ena
-
bles this development is digitalisation and, used in the right way, this is an important 
tool for us to solve our global challenges. 
Cybercom’s processes for creating net 
positive activities includes the proven 
methodology of the Business Model Can
-
vas, where we add a strategic sustainability filter. We help our clients to shift their 
focus from internal sustainability issues to 
external business opportunities. Including 
the net positive approach allows greater 
advances in companies, making them dare to think bigger and in new ways. Our 
experience is that this leads to innovative 
services and new revenue streams.Contributing 
with a net  
positive im -
pact on society
Cybercom has developed a process that helps 
companies to achieve a net positive impact 
on society. Cybercom’s delivery has a strong focus on implementing the strategy and 
providing support throughout the implemen
-
tation phase.
The net positive
The net positive is an approach whereby companies focus on developing products 
and services that give more to society since 
their use after the point of sale exceeds what 
they take to manufacture. This differs from a more traditional perspective of sustainability 
that addresses only a company’s negative 
environmental impacts. This is particularly 
relevant for companies that need to grow 
rapidly in order to deliver the solutions need
-
ed by society.
Global sustainability filter
According to the UN Population Division, 
there will be 11 billion people on Earth in 
2100. Cybercom has developed a method 
by which we can examine whether business 
models, innovations or products can support a future sustainable society with 11 billion 
inhabitants.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  25Cybercom’s process
Sustainable
Digitalisation
Advisor
Attracting good talent
Strengthening brands
Increasing participation among employees4. Implementation
• Implementation of identi -
fied business opportunities. 
Cybercom’s consultants ensure that everything works 
in practice
•   The delivery may, for exam
-
ple, consist of:
 •  New digital services, earnings models or business 
opportunities
 •  Updated business model
 •  KPIs measuring the impact on the wider world
New customers
Greater revenues
New socially relevant innovations
New partnershipsInput resources• Evaluation of a company’s 
existing range of products and services
•  Analysis of how the company 
contributes to the UN global sustainability goals1. InventoryGlobal sustainability filter• Identification of trends, changes in 
technology, business models and values
•  Review of internal and external conditions 
for the development of new services
•   The company’s potential to generate net 
positive solutions is evaluated based on various scenarios2. Evaluation
Global sustainability filter• Compilation of the company’s future 
range of products and services with a net positive impact
•   Development of an implementation 
plan and a strategy to ensure successful 
delivery of new products, services or 
business opportunities3. OpportunitiesA
26 Cybercom follows its 
clients out into the world
Smriti Gopinath,
Software Consultant 
at Cybercom
Karin Walgeborg, 
Key Account Manager 
at CybercomB
27By staffing projects using a range skills and 
experience from different geographical 
areas, we are able to offer a high quality 
delivery at a favourable cost and improve 
the awareness of different cultures and 
enrich ourselves, both as a company and as individuals. We call this blended delivery, 
and this becomes possible when Cybercom 
acts as the interface with its client and is 
responsible for the day-to-day contact and 
strategy.Cybercom provides application manage
-
ment, development and support to security company ASSA ABLOY’s IT department 
and to its global product development 
departments. The services consist of 
blended delivery, in which experts from 
Sweden, Poland and India supply various components of the project based on their 
skills and experience, and this has led to im
-
proved availability, lower costs and greater 
flexibility for ASSA ABLOY. 
The delivery from Cyber -
com allows flexible and cost-effective adaptation 
to ASSA ABLOY’s IT needs.
Jens Nielsen, 
CIO at ASSA ABLOY❝
 You have increased the satisfied 
customer index (SCI) from 69 to 
73 in the past year, and are now 
six points above the industry 
average. What do you believe is 
behind this increase?
“ A high level of customer satisfac-
tion is paramount for us in terms of retaining 
and raising our clients’ confidence in us. Innovation and sustainability are gaining an increasingly central role among our clients, with the aim of bolstering their competi-tiveness, and in this regard Cybercom is very well-positioned and able to meet our clients’ exacting demands. That is one explanation behind the positive trend.” 
Your vision is to be your clients’ most 
trusted business partner in the connected 
world. How are you achieving this?  
“ A concrete example is that we help our 
clients bring their products to the market 
faster each and every day, which is impera-tive in today’s fast-paced world. We provide skills, resources and support in the process of transitioning from the concept stage to a finished product or service that can be launched. The ability to develop qualitative software is pivotal for clients in all indus-tries. Another good example is that we support our clients in reaching their own customers in a more intelligent way, and thus provide professional business develop-ment and advisory services.” 
You employ a concept for universal 
solutions, whereby Cybercom is present 
throughout the process. 
“Most of our clients are driven by 
two primary forces: demands for 
greater innovation and lower overall costs. We address both of these perspectives with our lifecycle services. Using initial advisory and business development services, we help clients transform and develop their operations, create greater customer value and increase their revenues.”
“Of equal importance is reducing the 
overall costs of product development and management. In this regard, we can encour -
age clients to improve product quality by way of development, testing and efficient operational services. We are also able to deliver cost-effective solutions from our offices in Poland and India. Good examples of clients who use our lifecycle services include IKEA, where we enjoy a high level of confidence and focus on innovative ad-visory services and development, and ASSA 
ABLOY , where we deliver development and 
management using a combination of on-site and offshore deliveries.” 
In what fields do you foresee possible 
growth potential moving forward? 
“The strong digitalisation trend that 
is underway is going to accelerate even 
faster, so Cybercom’s positions in digital-isation, security and cloud services are highly relevant to our clients. Specifically, 
we foresee a continued strong trend in 
what is called the Internet of Things, 
which is the core of what we do here 
at Cybercom. Another prominent trend is the need for secure systems development. We have experienced 
a particularly significant increase 
in the area of compliance, where we 
offer several proprietarily developed 
services that are highly popular among our clients. The new EU directive concerning the processing of personal data – known as the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR – in particular will occupy many of our clients in the years to come.”How is Cybercom achieving its vision?  
Bo Strömqvist is Head of Sales at Cybercom and is in  
charge of our largest manufacturing industry clients. INTERVIEW
28  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016IN THE CONNECTED WORLD OUR VISION: TO BE OUR CLIENTS’
Most trusted  
business partner 
Results of Cybercom’s 2016 Customer Satisfaction Survey
91%69➔73
SCI increased to 73, com -
pared with 69 in 2015, and 
is now 6 points above the 
sector avarege of 67.100% of our 
clients would 
recommend us.91% will probably or certainly continue 
to use us.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  29
A partner throughout  
the entire project lifecycle 
With our advisory services, we help our clients to understand 
how to benefit from connected society. Our knowledge of the 
opportunities and challenges of digitalisation means that we can 
put the right solutions into practice. Cloud services allow us to 
optimise and assure a high level of service around the clock, every 
day of the year. Our experience in developing systems for innova -
tive business models allows us to deliver the solutions required for 
the digital future.Most trusted  
business partner INNOVATION  
ZONE BECOMES  
CYBERCOM’S HUBIn the Innovation Zone, employees and clients have the  
opportunity to jointly evaluate and test new ideas, develop 
working prototypes using new and exciting technologies, and 
run pilot projects in an agile, creative environment.
Daniel Kullgard,  
Innovation Leader  
at Cybercom Innovation ZoneSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  31Innovation Zone
 We saw the opportunity 
to highlight a standard occupational problem for the consulting world and transform it into a valuable invest-ment for the future,” says Daniel Kullgard, Innovation Leader, who 
has been working full-time on developing Cybercom’s Innovation Zone concept since last September. 
With just over 1,200 employed consult-
ants, there are always some who are be-tween projects, and at Cybercom we saw an ability to leverage this unutilised resource, while also enabling our employees to devel-op their skills. 
“We opted to not see this as downtime, 
instead allowing everyone who is in between assignments an opportunity to work togeth-er in a business-development team,” says Daniel Kullgard. “The team pursues new technologies that we think will be of signif-icant interest, and above all in areas where Cybercom wants to gain strength in the future. This is the basis for the Innovation Zone, and it has proven highly rewarding. 
A good example is the Internet of Things 
(IoT). A few years ago, there were not many clients who were willing to make invest-ments in development and IoT technology. Today, the demand for skilled and experi-enced consultants in this field is considera-ble. Because Cybercom has elected to focus on IoT and develop its employees’ skills, the company is now one of the preeminent solutions-based providers in the field. 
A great deal of experience-based inno-
vation work is conducted in the Innovation Zone, where the focus is on progress by trial and error rather than by contemplation. 
“We also pursue a very open approach 
within the projects themselves. Employees are given the opportunity to test ideas and new and exciting technologies they are inter -
ested in, with learning as the primary goal. The only requirement is that we think that it will be relevant to our clients in the future.” 
Cybercom’s Innovation Zones are current-
ly found in nine offices in three countries, and each Innovation Zone has one employee whose primary task is to manage the work. 
“The Innovation Zone has in many 
respects become the hub of Cybercom’s operations,” says Daniel.“This truly adds to fostering a shared 
corporate culture. A variety of skills, technol-ogies and customer experiences are brought together, creating new things in the Inno-vation Zone, while also working together to advance Cybercom – that means a great deal in terms of our sense of community.”
The Innovation Zone also serves as a 
key component in Cybercom’s onboarding process. All new employees who are not involved in client assignments spend their initial period here in order to directly partici-pate in a creative context. 
Cybercom currently runs about 50 projects 
within the framework of the Innovation Zone, and has also introduced several pro-jects that go beyond the walls of the office in order to further diversify experience and approaches to work. 
Many students write their thesis or under -
take an internship in connection with the Innovation Zone, whereby the students work alongside the consultants, which gives both parties a great opportunity to get to know one another. 
There is naturally also a clear sustainabili-
ty perspective in the Innovation Zone. 
“While we are developing our employees’ 
skills, it is also a matter of creating sustain-ability in our business model. We naturally want to ensure that our society invests in future-proof sustainable technologies. To remain relevant to our clients, we must possess expertise in, and be able to propose, new technologies to be able to help them create sustainable businesses,” says Daniel.
Cybercom believes in working closely with 
its clients, and the Innovation Zone serves as an excellent platform for building a deep, long-term relationship.
“We always try to identify a win-win 
situation,” says Daniel. “We have examined several of the new technologies that we are working with alongside our clients.”
Cybercom has also initiated partnerships 
that involve technology and areas in which we are fluent, though in new sectors and often with start-up companies.
The future looks bright for the Innovation 
Zone, Daniel thinks. 
“Many clients are interested in utilising 
our experiences, and we have noted that the consultants are attracted by being able to freely pursue new technologies along with their colleagues. It’s all about co-creation!”
GOOGLE TANGO
Tango is a technology platform developed by 
Google that enables mobile devices to define 
their position in relation to the space around 
them, without using GPS or other external 
signals. The user experiences are created using Augmented Reality (AR). The Innovation Zone 
has developed an app based on this technology, 
which, among other features, shows what furni
-
ture looks like in a room.
DRIVING SIMULATOR
The Innovation Zone has developed a driving simulator for assessing patients’ ability to drive 
following an acquired brain injury, such as a 
stroke. This project is based on an innovation 
competition that Cybercom won. The simulator 
has a steering wheel, software and a screen, 
and the subject is required to steer correctly on a 
winding country road and react to the road signs as they appear.SMART HELMET
In partnership with a client, the Innovation Zone 
has developed a smart helmet in order to improve 
safety and quality at construction sites. The smart 
helmet enables many key functions, such as 
seeing if the wearer is in the right place and holds 
the relevant qualifications to handle machinery 
and equipment, and that the individual has evac -
uated a risk area in the event of an incident.
32  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Employees
Gabriel Ibanez Romero is a 
Senior Consultant and head  
of the Innovation Zone in  
Gothenburg. Even as a child, he hacked his bike light for 
more power. Nowadays he 
is focusing his maker-skills on building a connected bird 
feeder for the Universeum 
science centre.
When did you know that you 
were a Maker?
As a kid I experimented a lot. I 
bought some industrial strength LEDs, built a circuit board and 
fitted it to my bike. 
It was so strong that 
people stopped me 
in the streets to ask if I had a laser on my 
bike! It is all a matter 
of curiosity and ex
-ploring the boundaries of what can be done, and that is exactly 
what we do when we solve 
problems here at Cybercom.
Do you have any examples 
where you and your team 
have used these Maker 
qualities?
I think the project that we did for 
Universeum, called Hungry Birds, really embodies what it means to 
be a Maker. The science centre’s 
most popular attraction is a rain
-
forest, where a flock of rare and endangered birds live. They gave 
us a clear task – how can we use 
technology to keep track of the 
well-being and status of these 
birds? We equipped each bird with an RFID tag and all feeding 
stations with a sensor so that 
Universeum could keep track of 
them every time they ate their 
seeds. Digitalised information about the entire flock can also 
be presented to vis
-
itors. We have been working with Univer
-
seum for a long time, gaining their trust by 
delivering multiple 
great projects. Irfan Kahlid is a product developer and leader of the Innovation Zone at Region 
North East. He was one of the 
first to have a computer in Pakistan in the 1990s and is 
today building the next 
generation of telecom 
networks.
How did you become a 
Maker?
I have always been inspired by inventions and creative ideas in 
my surroundings. When I began 
working at Cybercom I immedi
-
ately felt at home because this is truly a place that embraces a kind 
of problem-solving innovation.
Could you describe a project 
with the Maker spirit?One of our clients challenged With creativity, passion and an appetite for the unknown, we work 
every day to enable companies and organisations to benefit from the 
opportunities of the connected world.
our team of agile developers to come up with ideas on how to 
improve its innovation process. 
In short, instead of just coming 
up with great product innovation 
ideas, we sat down to develop a way of working to capture as 
many great ideas as possible. We 
built it on the agile development 
methodology, where ideas are 
captured and then tested for fea
-
sibility before implementation. A true Maker initiative that was 
highly appreciated by the client 
and is currently being used by 
Cybercom.
What are the most impor-
 
tant things you learnt in  
how you build innovative 
teams?
One key insight is that with the 
right model for innovation more 
people get involved in the pro -
cess and the results get better. 
Almost everyone can contribute 
to innovation, but without the 
right context shy or introverted 
employees might not dare to 
offer their thoughts and ideas. This would be a pity because it is 
not always the loud people who 
have the best ideas!We are Makers 
of tomorrow
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  33Employees
Elisa Patronen is a User Experience 
Designer at Cybercom with a pas -
sion for testing the unknown and expanding her knowledge in every 
possible – and impossible – area.
 
How did you become a Maker?
It was probably my constant longing to gain new experiences and to combine 
solutions that made me a Maker. For 
me, the fun lies in finding correlations 
in patterns and analogies in seemingly 
different things, and applying these in new situations. When I attended design 
school, I learnt to fail quickly, try again and, most importantly, to ask the right questions. This is a never-ending pursuit, 
but it opened me up to an entirely new way of seeing how everything is con
-
nected. I think that experience is what truly made me a Maker in practice. 
 
What would your dream project 
look like?
My dream is to get involved in nu-
 
merous types of projects. For me, a giant project is not the most rewarding 
achievement, but rather creating smaller 
solutions that lead us in the right direc
-
tion. There are few experiences that fail to give you new insights and perspectives on the future and, in reality, you can find synergies in the most surprising 
combinations. 
For example, when I began my design 
studies many people thought I would probably not be able to draw on my 
background in statistics in any way. To
-
day, more and more people have begun to see the value in combining statistical 
tasks with qualitative client insights. 
Now that so many things have already 
been created in the world, innovation is 
often the art of combining existing piec
-
es of the puzzle in unexpected ways.34  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Employees
Cybercom’s ability to attract and  
retain skilled employees is closely 
associated with the company’s power of innovation and our capacity to offer exciting projects that mean something to wider society. Our goal is to provide all employees with opportunities to continuously develop and achieve  
their full potential. DIVER
SITY
Cybercom at the 
CHARM employment 
fair in GothenburgSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  35Employees
 Diversity is a matter of similarities 
and differences, such as gender, age, ethnicity and cultural back-ground, yet also of differences in education, family circumstances, values, interests and experi-ences. We believe that diversity 
is a decisive factor in Cybercom’s success that creates dynamics and an innovative atmosphere in our everyday life, as well as profitability and long-term value creation. We are always striving to enrich our diver -
sity, and a key initiative in these efforts is equalising the differences between men and women, among overall employees and in management. 
Cybercom’s staff currently comprise 18 
percent women, and our goal is for women to represent 30 percent of our staff by year-end 2020. During the year we have held a number of internal workshops to which employees have been invited to share experiences and come up with concrete measures on how to achieve our objective of having more female employees. We also offer internal networks for women and partner with organisations such as the Royal Insti-tute of Technology’s (KTH) women’s network Malvina, whose networking events we have hosted on several occasions. 
In order to achieve a healthy balance 
among our employees and engage in new training programmes, we also maintain strong partnerships with universities,  
higher-education institutions, and poly-  
technic institutions at all of the locations  
in which we operate. The Innovation Zone  
is a major contributing factor to our ability to accommodate students writing their thesis and interns, and to recruit recent graduates.
We also strive to recruit more employees 
with international backgrounds and we engage in several initiatives including the Integration Zone in Linköping, which is a partnership with the Chamber of Commerce of East Sweden and the Swedish Public Employment Agency, under which we offer newcomers an ability to use internships as a way to establish themselves in the Swedish labour market and gain references from Sweden. We hope to be able to offer them a position at Cybercom or refer the partic-ipants to our business partners or recruit-ment partners who can match them with others in their networks. We also participate in Talent Without Borders, an initiative for newcomers with software skills, as well as the Good Malmö project, which aims to help young people who are currently outside the labour market to find a job. 
Strengthening our competitive edge requires 
strong and professional leadership. Cyber -
com’s management has evolved significantly in recent years, and a key goal has been to incorporate more of our employees into the leadership team. In 2016, we worked on changing the structure of the leadership positions and implemented a model based on Competence Team Leads, as opposed to traditional consulting managers. Our Competence Team Leads combine their work as consultants with heading a small team of employees in the same skills area. The team leader is primarily charged with motivating and engaging the employees, as well as driv-ing, coaching and supporting skills develop-ment, both in the team and for each individ-ual. In our Cybercom People Voice employee satisfaction survey, 75 percent of employees rate the management as 4 or 5 of 5. 
Boosting Your Development is Cybercom’s 
training and skills development platform, through which we promote internal opportu-nities for advancement and describe our ag-ile development process. We believe that the general view of careers has evolved in recent years. Today, we have a more individual defi-nition of what constitutes a successful career, and the objectives are different for different people. We are more inclined to compare careers and development to a climbing wall than to climbing a ladder. Developing and achieving your goals often requires being flexible and capitalising on the opportunities and challenges that we encounter along the way. Sometimes you have to move sideways or even downwards in order to then continue on your chosen path.
Cybercom has identified five principal 
areas for development in which employees can enhance their skills – Technological Development, Business Development, Project Management, Sales and Leadership. Within each area, there are a number of roles in which employees can hone their skills. Within these roles, employees can opt to expand their skills in several different technologies, for example, or specialise in a specific technology. 
75%
In our Cybercom People Voice 
employee satisfaction survey, a full 
75% of employees rate the manage -
ment as 4 or 5 of 5. Charlotte Siversson Sustainability Ambassador and HR Partner CybercomDIVER
SITYWE ARE ALWAYS STRIVING TO 
ENRICH OUR DIVERSITY , AND A KEY INITIATIVE IN THESE EFFORTS IS EQUALISING THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN, AMONG OVERALL EMPLOYEES  
AND IN MANAGEMENT❝
36  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Employees
There are many different factors be -
hind the low proportion of women in 
the IT sector, and unintentional bias is 
one of them. Cybercom opted to high -
light the issue of unintentional bias 
and the importance of diversity in the 
IT sector in a filmed experiment using 
augmented reality (AR). 
The AR-based True Colors app, developed 
by Cybercom together with two students 
from the KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 
demonstrates a clear link between people’s 
attitudes and how we perceive each other. 
When the VR headset with the app in -
stalled is directed at a person, that person’s voice becomes distorted and their image 
is anonymised into a colourful chameleon. 
This means the app prevents the user from 
identifying or unconsciously judging a per
-
son based on how they appear or sound.Percentage of employees with  
a university degree88%
Average experience11years
Average length of employment5years
Average age38years
Average sick leave3%
Percentage of employees covered by 
collective bargaining agreements77%Employees in numbers
Experiment  
illustrates biasTRUE COLORS
The social experiment involved test 
subjects putting on the headset and VR goggles. They were then introduced to 
four individuals who talked about their 
professions and backgrounds. Once the 
test subjects had taken off the equipment they were asked to pair each story with 
the right individual in front of them. 
In every case the test subjects guessed 
wrong, confirming the stereotypical im
-
pression of professions and interests. 
At Cybercom, we strive to create a 
workplace for everyone, and diversity 
plays a key role in our company’s oper -
ations. The innovative app True Colors is one approach to this. Cybercom is 
involved in numerous diversity projects 
throughout Sweden, and is also currently 
sponsoring Women in Tech – an initiative 
to increase diversity and encourage more women to enter the IT sector.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  37Employees
Recruiting  
newcomers 
with IT skills
Newly arrived IT specialists are being 
navigated to quality jobs by way of the 
recently established association Talent 
Without Borders. This initiative is spon -
sored by Cybercom Öresund along with other IT companies in the region.
There is a shortage of qualified labour 
in many regions in Sweden. Meanwhile, 
newcomers from all corners of the world possess tremendous skills and experience. 
This waste of talent and competence promp
-
ted the idea for Talent Without Borders. 
Along with several other IT companies, 
Cybercom Öresund is involved in the 
non-profit association aimed at supporting 
newly arrived refugees who primarily 
possess skills in software development. Under this programme, they receive 
support in adapting to the local business 
culture, communications and leadership. 
For example, the association organises 
courses and provides networks that match potential employers and talented individu
-
als. Cybercom offers coaching in areas such as UX and Java, as well as agile approaches 
and methods. 
The first group of eight hand-picked 
candidates started the programme in 2016, 
and this has resulted in several recruitments to date. Cybercom has employed two of 
the participants, Kholoud Alsalem and 
Samer Naoura. Composition of Cybercom
2016 2016 2015 2015 IA* IA*66 75 70 75 59 6383%17%26%33%
74%67%
Employee survey● MALE ● FEMALE309
642
1373
89
230
72Other employees Managers Board of directors
<30
30–50>50<3030–50>50<3030–50>50
AGE AGE AGE NUMBERS NUMBERS NUMBERS
ENGAGEMENT
*) INDUSTRY AVERAGE RESPONSE RATE: 77%LEADERSHIP
Kholoud Alsalem Samer Naoura38  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Targets and outcomes
Profitability Growth Sustainable business
Cybercom shall be one of the 
more profitable companies among 
its comparable competitors and 
achieve an operating margin of 
10% Cybercom shall strive to achieve 
growth of 5% annually over the 
business cycleTarget
Outcome
CommentIncrease the amount of sustain -
able business with our clients 
that contributes to sustainable 
development and responsible use 
of finite resources
  
  
 
 
5% (3%) operating margin 
 
  
 
 
 
Operating profit after deprecia -
tion and amortisation pertains to profit before impairment losses on 
goodwill and a capital loss on the 
sale of a subsidiaryStrong market in Europe and a high level of demand among our 
key clientsRelates to Cybercom’s ten largest 
clientsOur targets 
Cybercom has identified seven target areas: growth, profitability, 
sustainable business, client base, assignment types, recruitment 
and business ethics. We believe these are critical, and they guide 
our operations and our day-to-day activities.  
49%
201569%5.0%7.5%
2016SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  39Targets and outcomes
Assignment types Client base Business ethics Recruitment
Key clients shall account for 70% 
of sales, the ten largest clients 
50%, and no individual client shall 
account for more than 15% Even distribution of consulting services and turnkey assignments/
projectsNet recruitment of at least 5%, 
with a gender distribution of 30% 
since 30% of technical graduates 
are femaleHigh ethical standards shall be a part of our DNA and permeate all 
our activities and all our business
 
 
  
 
 
■ Key clients 58%  
■ Ten largest clients 44% (41%)  
■ Largest individual client  
    14% (14%) 
 
  
 
 
 
■ Turnkey assignments/projects  
■ Consulting services   
  
 
 
 
Female 18%  
Male 82%  
Net recruitment -1.2%  
  
 
70% of employees, including the board, have completed certifica
-
tion in anti-corruption and the code of conduct 
23 key clients A large proportion of the growth in the public sector is from consult
-
ing servicesThe proportion of females has increased by 1%. Net recruitment 
has been impacted by reduced 
operations in Finland and in Singa
-
pore, where an MBO took place on December 31, 2016 The training is reviewed annually
27% 
(34%)
63% 
(66%)AMore with less
C
Y
B
E
40  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016BConnectivity creates smarter  
products that require fewer  
resources. This means a cleaner 
world.Cybercom should act responsibly in all countries and in all contexts 
in which we operate. Management has defined our responsibility 
and leads the work of focusing on sustainable business, engaged 
employees and a high level of ethics. Head of Communications and 
Sustainability Accelerator Kristina Cato drives the dialogue into what 
is material alongside an annually selected team of Sustainability Ambassadors, here Bassil Salameh, Amanda Brynolf, Martin Gråberg, 
Anders Ohlsson, Marta Chojnacka, Johan Billman and Elisa Patronen.
R
O
C
M
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  4142  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Corporate responsibility
“The interna -
tional sustainability practices 
of Swedish companies have to 
improve,” says Parul Sharma,  
a human rights lawyer who 
was recently named the  
most powerful woman in the  
Swedish business community 
by financial weekly Veckans Affärer. She believes there  
is a shortage of knowledge, skills and monitoring, and that the requirements im -
posed by companies are still far too lax.PARUL SHARMA
PS
ACQUIRE KNOWLEDGE, IMPOSE REQUIREMENTS & VERIFYSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  43 In recent years, Parul Sharma has 
become one of the most influential 
people in the business community in terms of CSR, and her verdict of Swedish companies is harsh. “To be perfectly honest, there has been a lot of nonsense surrounding CSR!”
At the UN level, CSR, or corporate social  
responsibility, has been defined as a disci-pline comprising four components that in-volve human rights, anti-corruption, labour rights and environmental responsibility. Parul believes that many companies have interpreted these provisions as if they can select the elements they enjoy working with and integrate into the company’s approach to human rights. 
“I am sorry, but you do not have the right 
to do that. That’s like saying we have picked a few articles from the legislation that we find exciting! I’m equally baffled every time I hear it. We are obligated to comply with the full spectrum,” she concludes.
The approach of companies to the Codes 
of Conduct is also criticised. 
“There is an incredible amount of confi-
dence in these Codes of Conduct and I don’t know whether this is naiveté or laziness. You can talk about it until the cows come home, but it means nothing unless the codes have real substance, as well as repercussions tied to them.”
As the daughter of two Indian immigrants 
Parul Sharma had an Indian upbringing in a Swedish environment. After upper sec-ondary school, she opted to study law and applied to the criminal law programme, but soon became more interested in human rights. Between her internship at the  
Swedish Embassy in India and her work at the European Commission’s Delegation in New Delhi, she came to understand what real injustice meant and how you can change its causes. Today, she is a lawyer with the law firm Vinge and serves as Chair of the Swedish government’s delegation for the implementation of the UN goals, Agenda 2030.
What would you say is the greatest 
sustainability challenge facing Swedish companies today? 
“Skills and knowledge regarding sus-
tainability are two areas that still require a great deal of work, particularly concerning social issues. Nowadays, many companies, municipalities and organisations have envi-ronmental coordinators, though we seldom see human-rights coordinators, anti-cor -ruption coordinators, or ILO coordinators. 
This is something that we must adopt and 
observe. ” 
She believes, for example, that anti-cor -
ruption is a sensitive topic for Swedish 
companies. 
“It’s a bit like discussing sexuality with 
people who are very religious! Corruption af-fects all sustainability issues, and corruption challenges also need to be addressed head on in Sweden, which does business in so many high-risk countries.” 
“Sweden is currently ranked as the world’s 
third-least-corrupt country, but that only applies nationally. How things look beyond 
the country’s borders goes unreported. Environmental regulation bodies are not infrequently the most corrupt of all,” Parul reveals.
“They are often easy to buy. But if we begin 
thinking about how bribery and corruption affect the environment and the climate, then I think we have made good progress.” 
She feels that we must increase our under -
standing of how social behaviour affects the environment, and recalls an incident that made a significant impression on her. 
“Fourteen years ago, we were at a cement 
plant in India where a group of women were sitting and mixing cement by hand. The water was running from a tap the whole time and, like a good Swedish inspector, I approached them and asked why they didn’t turn off the tap between refills to conserve resources. ”
The women became furious and scolded 
her. Did she not understand that if they turned off the tap all the time, they would lose several minutes of working time every hour, and that they were paid for the number of blocks they produced? 
“Right then and there, it became ex-tremely clear that in a country like India you 
cannot impose the responsibility on the 
enslaved women; it has to be imposed on us as clients and as the responsible parties. We must learn more about correlation, like understanding where the environmental risks lie in allowing human oppression. How do your economic and social behaviours impact the environment and the climate?”
Parul believes that regulations and legisla-
tion in Sweden still leave a lot to be desired. 
“First and foremost, we need nationally 
binding legislation that requires companies to conduct due diligence using the entire CSR spectrum on every facet of their busi-ness, right down to each supplier.” 
Several countries, including France, 
already have such legislation. Parul feels that the new Swedish law requiring sustainability reporting, which comes into effect next year, could be a step in this direction.  
“I am hopeful, but also feel there is a lack 
of discourse concerning the innovation of new skills, which is troubling.” 
So what can a company do if it wants to take 
its share of responsibility for the global goals throughout its supply chain? Parul believes sustainability is a matter of inspection – just like a car, compliance must be monitored, inspected and undergo service on a regular basis. 
“Not monitoring your supply chain 
constitutes substandard business and a degradation of human rights. Unless you can perform substantive check-ups, you should not be conducting business in fragile countries.” 
Parul is currently helping companies per -
form check-ups on their operations. To date, she has performed more than 160 audits on supply chains in high-risk countries and high-risk industries worldwide.
“During the course of my work, I have be-
come increasingly aware that audits are only about a third of the work. Suppliers often do not understand what is encompassed and what must be done to meet the require-ments. The monitoring work itself is both where the costs lie and results are generated, provided it’s done properly. Training courses in partnership with suppliers, monitoring of results and hand-holding throughout the monitoring programme are hugely important.” 
“We simply have to look beyond quarterly 
reports if we want to be able to look the next generation in the eyes and say that we did what we could.”
NOT MONITORING  
YOUR SUPPLY CHAIN 
CONSTITUTES SUB-
STANDARD BUSINESS 
AND A DEGRADATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS. ❝Corporate responsibilityCYBERCOM’S  
INTERNAL  
ENVIRONMENTAL 
PRACTICES
Rashin Kabodvand,
Competence Team 
Lead of the Java 
Team at Cybercom  
in StockholmIN THE SPOTLIGHT:SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  45Corporate responsibility
Cybercom has always had a major focus on 
internal environmental aspects, and one of our sustainability goals for 2016 was to secure environmental certification for the entire company. In 2016, Rashin Kabodvand, Competence Team Lead for the Java Team, and one of Cybercom’s Sustainability Ambas-sadors, was placed in charge of planning and preparing for environmental certification. 
“Since 2008, we have been environmental-
ly certified in Region Mid and have long been aiming to secure environmental certification for the entire company, which is why it is par -
ticularly gratifying that we finally achieved our certification goal,” says Rashin. “In early 2017, an external environmental certification audit was performed that went unexpect-edly well, and we passed the audit with no deviations. This means the entire company has secured the ISO 14001 Environmental Management Certification.” 
Although Cybercom’s greatest potential  
lies in enhancing offerings to clients that  
add to sustainable development for the 
companies and their end-customers, it is also imperative that the company lives up  
to ambitious environmental targets and actively works to improve its own environ-mental practices. “By increasing environmental awareness among our employees at every level, we create an approach throughout the organ-isation that influences everything we do,” says Rashin. 
“Environmental certification involves 
implementing effective processes for the consumption of resources and compliance with the prevailing environmental legis-lation. As an example, we review Sweden’s environmental code twice a year and make sure we are in compliance.” 
The greatest direct impact of the environ-
mental certification is that we have intro-duced waste separation at all our offices in Sweden. All employees must also complete an online environmental training course, and by year-end 2016, 70 percent of our employees had undertaken environmental training. Another key element of Cybercom’s environmental practices is transportation. 
“ We must reduce our use of cars,” ex-
plains Rashin. 
“We have catalogued the public transport 
options for all our offices, and we are conduct-ing activities to make it easier for employees to not use their cars. These include fitting the changing rooms at all our offices with showers so employees can run or cycle to work. Cyber -
com has also written an environmental policy that outlines how to generate business that is sustainable in the long term.”
However, our efforts will obviously not 
end simply because we have now secured environmental certification. 
“This is a relentless effort and we are 
constantly striving to improve and to meet our environmental goals and comply with regulations,” says Rashin. New Sustaina-bility Ambassadors will also take over from my colleagues and I, and will continue to pursue ongoing and new projects!”Cybercom develops innovative, 
secure and effective solutions that add to profitability and 
sustainable development for our clients and society at large. 
We are also always striving to reduce our own environ-  
mental impact. In 2017, Cybercom secured environmental certification and our internal practices are moving forward 
with steps including employee training.
 ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION
High ethical standards should perme -
ate our business and our operations. 
Our actions are governed by our code of conduct in all countries in which 
we operate, and business ethics are 
a standing item on the agenda of the 
management team. 
Our actions 
From 2014 our employees must com-
 
plete an online course on anti-corrup -
tion. The training is based on our code 
of business ethics and conduct, and 
includes various possible dilemmas to 
consider. Cybercom experienced no 
incidents of corruption or discrimination 
in 2016. 
Information security 
For Cybercom, information security 
means our ability to ensure the necessary 
confidentiality, integrity and availability of our internal systems and information, 
and the systems and information of our 
clients. Cybercom’s systems and clients’ systems should be managed in a safe 
manner, and the effect of any security 
incidents should not risk serious damage 
to our own business or the business of 
our clients. Cybercom undertakes syste
-
matic information security efforts based on our information security policy. 
Client privacy 
Cybercom works actively to ensure com
-
pliance with the existing regulations for 
protection of privacy as well as the new, 
tougher rules that must be complied 
with by 2018 in accordance with the 
EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, 
GDPR. This work is conducted both internally and on assignment for clients. 
Cybercom has not experienced any 
losses of client data in 2016. BY INCREASING ENVIRONMENTAL 
AWARENESS AMONG OUR EMPLOY -
EES AT EVERY LEVEL, WE CREATE AN APPROACH THROUGHOUT THE 
ORGANISATION THAT INFLUENCES 
EVERYTHING WE DO.❝OUR  
RESPONS-
IBILITY46  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Chairman’s comment
 Cybercom was taken private by JCE Group 
and Tequity in December 2015 and we can now close the file our first financial year as an unlisted company. Over the past year, we have resolutely continued to pursue 
our strategy and are now in many ways a differ -
ent company than we were just a year ago. I am pleased to state that we experienced a substantial increase in demand for our services and that we are more competitive than ever before. We have also continued to strengthen our brand, which is pivotal to retaining and attracting our talented employees, who represent the key to our success. Backed by tailwinds from a positive market, we are now well-equipped to further advance our positions. This has been particularly apparent from our clients, as we are now securing a greater number of good and ex-citing projects than perhaps ever before. The fact that we have together achieved our current position is thanks to hard and determined work, but we have more to give!
JCE Group and Tequity are jointly providing sup-
port to Cybercom and its management in efforts to safeguard the company’s future opportunities. This involves corporate responsibility – taking long-term responsibility for how we impact our environment. Our values as owners are entrepreneurship, profes-sionalism and dedication. It is important to always act with professionalism; to make decisions while keeping an eye on a resilient horizon and based on respect for the individual and how our decisions affect society and the environment, in the short term and in the future. As Cybercom has the ability to serve as both an influence and an inspiration, it is important that our words lead to action and exceed our clients’ expectations on sustainability. We are convinced that this is in demand among clients, which creates a stronger Cybercom and thus bene-fits us, Cybercom’s employees and our clients. 
As a shareholder, I am inspired by the 17 global 
sustainable development goals that the UN, the countries of the world and key companies signed in 2015. We know that the technology currently avail-able suffices in achieving every goal, yet we must all make an effort and turn our words into action. I know that corporate drive can take us a long way and that those of us in the business community 
have a key role to play in taking responsibility 
and helping achieve the goals. This goes 
for all industries and in particular our 
industry – the IT and telecom sector. Our 
innovative solutions enable, for example, more secure online banking services, 
digital services used by citizens when 
communicating with authorities, auton-
omous cars and even connected cranes 
that add to optimisation and efficiency enhance-
ments. Cybercom has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2011.
Our goal is to constantly improve in order to 
create profitable growth. Cybercom aims to become even more client-oriented, agile and focused. The company’s foremost assets are its employees, our talented consultants. I am proud of our knowledge base and what we have achieved in unison over this period. Together we are making a difference for a better future!
Hampus Ericsson 
 
CEO and Chairman, JCE Group
Main shareholder and Chairman,
Cybercom HoldingTHE RIGHT PATH FORWARD
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENT
Corporate governance information is available  
at www.cybercom.com➔
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  47Code of Conduct
1. Comply with laws and  
regulations 
All Cybercom employees are respon-
sible for acting in compliance with 
laws and regulations applicable to 
Cybercom’s operations and deliveries. In the event of an individual issue 
demanding it, they will seek legal 
advice. Cybercom applies the Swed-
ish Code of Corporate Governance. 
Cybercom presents and reports corporate information in compliance 
with applicable laws and regulations.
2. Human rights 
Cybercom respects human rights as laid down in UN conventions. Every-
body in the organisation must show 
respect for the integrity and dignity 
of all people. Cybercom will not in 
any way contribute to the violation of 
human rights.
3. Labour law and working  
conditions
Cybercom supports freedom of 
association and the right to collective 
bargaining. 
Cybercom does not permit child 
labour. Cybercom applies the princi-ple that a child is a person younger 
than 15 years of age unless national 
states an older age, in which case the 
older age applies. Cybercom applies 
the definition of child labour as laid down by the International Labour 
Organisation (ILO). 
Cybercom does not tolerate any 
forms of discrimination. All employ-
ees have equal rights and must never 
be subjected to unjust treatment due 
to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion, beliefs, political affili-
ation or disability. All employees must show respect for each other and for 
Cybercom’s business partners and 
will take responsibility for combating 
discrimination. Cybercom works unabatedly to combat discrimina-
tion. This permeates the company’s 
policies and processes during, for ex-
ample, recruitment, setting of wage 
rates, and skills enhancement. 
Cybercom offers salaries that 
comply with the minimum wage, as laid down in national legislation, with 
correctly prepared employment con-
tracts. Cybercom also ensures that 
working hours are compliant with 
local legislation. Cybercom seeks to give all employees time for rest. 
Cybercom shall not in any way 
utilise forced labour and will always 
ensure that the working relationship 
between employee and organisation is at the employee’s own free will.
4. Health and safety
Cybercom shall provide a healthy and 
safe workplace in compliance with internationally acknowledged stand-
ards. Cybercom works proactively to 
prevent accidents and work-related 
illnesses. All employees are offered 
health and safety training when and if required.
5. Environment
Our aim is to minimise the company’s 
negative environmental impact. Cybercom respects the precaution-
ary principle and seeks to actively 
contribute to reducing negative 
environmental impact through 
responsible measures and technolog-ical advancement. Cybercom always 
acts in compliance with laws and 
internationally recognised directives.6.  Corruption and other prohibited business practices
Cybercom complies with the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute’s Code of Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits 
in Business, and works actively to 
combat corruption and unethical 
practices. Employees must not give 
or receive gifts, benefits or bribes 
that constitute a breach of this code. 
Cybercom is politically independ-ent and does not sponsor political 
organisations. Cybercom is opposed 
to any form of money laundering and 
has taken the relevant measures to 
prevent financial transactions that are of criminal intent.
7. Promote accurate disclosure 
in financial reports and other 
public communications
Cybercom shall be transparent and 
provide relevant information when so 
required. This means that the com-
pany shall always provide fair and 
correct information. Cybercom’s goal is for all communication to contribute 
to a stronger brand.
8. Properly use company assets 
and confidential information
All business decisions shall be 
made with the good of the company 
in mind. All consultants will be 
professional in their relationship with Cybercom and will not pursue competitive activities. 
Client trust is of vital importance 
to Cybercom. All employees will treat client information in complete confidentiality. Information about 
Cybercom’s clients may only be used 
in the implementation of the project in question. This confidentiality re-mains in force even after the project 
has been completed. Cybercom has 
clear guidelines for the handling of confidential information.
9. Protect our clients’ and partners’ 
confidential and patented 
information
Cybercom requires all employees to 
sign a confidentiality agreement in 
accordance with Cybercom’s security 
policy. There are clear rules for the 
handling of, and access to, material 
belonging to Cybercom.
10.  Take a professional pride in  
the consultancy role
Freedom with accountability and 
focus on the individual are important contributory factors in Cybercom 
being able to attract highly skilled 
staff. Cybercom seeks to offer all 
employees the opportunity for per -
sonal and professional development. 
A workplace that is open, creative 
and flexible sets the course for being 
able to offer clients professional and 
attractive products and services.
To sum up, Cybercom shall always 
conduct itself ethically in its dealings 
with all its stakeholders. Cybercom 
shall be characterised by profes-
sionalism and integrity. Cybercoms 
code of conduct is available in full at 
www.cybercom.se.Cybercom’s code of business ethics and conduct is based on the
UN Global Compact and its principles on human rights, labour,the environment and anti-corruption. The code was introducedin 2004 and has over the years been adapted to the world welive in. Cybercom’s board reviews the code annually. In 2012,a code was also drawn up for Cybercom’s suppliers to sign.Code  
of Conduct  
in brief48  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016GRI information
GRI INFORMATION
Stakeholder group Issues Dialogue Outcome
Clients Offer, quality, delivery, security 
management, privacy, business ethics, labour conditions, climate perfor -
mance, procurement proceduresClient survey, interviews Sales training, business system in the Swedishoperations for quality, environment and data securi-ty that will be integrated throughout the group.The system is based on the established standards ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environment) and to some extent ISO 27001 (information security)
Employees Skills development, working  
environment, corporate culture, diversity and equalityEmployee survey, interviews Training, management conferences,  
employee events /meetings on vision, values
Investors/shareholders Profitability, corporate responsibility,business ethicsAnnual general meeting, board work, interviews, investor meetingsCode of business conduct and ethics,  
sustainability report, corporate governance report
Suppliers Suppliers' environmental work Suppliers' code of conduct, procurement, negotiationsCompliance with code, sustainability focus
Trade unions Labour law, employment conditions, skills development, work environ-ment, codetermination, board mattersWorkplace meetings, board meetings,  
interviews/surveysSupport in wage bargaining and negotiation of layoffsDialogue with stakeholders
Cybercom has identified its employees, clients, shareholders and unions as its key stakeholders based on how much they are affected by or affect Cybercom.
In 2013 and early 2014 we conducted 
a number of interviews and surveys with employees in Sweden and Finland, with clients from different sectors, with representatives of various shareholders and with union repre-sentatives. The aim was to identify the main issues for Cybercom based on the sustainability issues that most affect and are affected by our activities and where we can make the biggest difference.
Cybercom's employees can comment and 
ask questions to management through the employee survey and through contacts with our sustainability ambassadors. Employees can also discuss and obtain information on health and safety issues or on business-related issues through the health and safety committees or through their immediate manager. 
See also forums and formats for dialogue in 
the table below. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  49GRI information
Material sustainability aspects per GRI G4
Cybercom's sustainability aspect GRI G4 aspect
Business ethics -
Anti-corruption & anti-competitive 
behaviourAnti-corruption
Dedicated employees & employee  
developmentEmployment, occupational health 
& safety and training
Financial stability Economic performance
Sustainable products & services Products & services and product & 
service labelling
Sustainability in Cybercom's culture -
Information security -
Privacy issues related to IT Customer privacy
Diversity & equality Diversity & equal opportunity and 
non-discrimination
Smart use of resources Energy and emissions
The table shows which aspects of sustainability that Cybercom has assessed as material in terms 
of their impact on the company and how they are deemed relevant to our stakeholders and their 
relationship with the aspects of GRI G4.
Below we outline supplementary information about the GRI indicators 
we report and the methods, assumptions, and conversion factors used to calculate them.
External assurance
Our sustainability has not been subject to external independent  
assurance.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Percentage trained in anti-corruption, SO4 2016 2015
Board 100% 100%
Executive management 100% 100%
Other employees 70% 54%    Economics
SEKk 2016 2015 2014
Generated direct economic value
Revenues 1,353,925 1,259,598 1,262,887
Distributed direct economic 
value
Employee benefits -766,570 -782,933 -824,303
Other external expenses -480,000 -408,590 -345,921
Charitable donations -549 -575 -521
EBITDA 106,806 67,500 92,142
Investment activities -23,363 -23,873 -26,373
Net finance income/expense -5,588 -2,621 -2,490
Dividends 0 0 -9,022
Corporation tax paid by country1
Denmark 0 0 0
Finland -3,503 -925 -3,567
India -754 -573 -1,637
Italy 0 -1 0
Korea -1,163 -809 -123
Paraguay 0 0 0
Poland -2,730 -1,755 -472
Rwanda -187 0 -1,350
Senegal 0 0 -4,775
Singapore -466 185 24
Sweden-4,215 -1 -319
Taiwan -126 -121 -94
Tanzania -431 -802 -582
Chad -583 -546 -383
Germany -10 0 0
Economic value retained 63,687 35,658 40,979
1)  In countries where the company has paid withholding tax during the year, these amounts have 
been included in the amount of tax paid. 
The table shows Cybercom's generated direct economic value, and how this is distributed between different stakeholder groups. 
Corporate governance
The general meeting of shareholders is the company’s supreme governing body. It is at the meeting that shareholders have the opportu-nity to exercise their influence. Shareholders wishing to attend a general meeting must be registered as shareholders in the transcript or other copy of the entire share register, accord-ing to ownership status, five weekdays before the meeting, and notify the company of their intent to participate not later than on the date specified in the notice to the general meeting.Board of directors
During the year the board has focused primar -
ily on the company's strategy, business plan and budget, the company's financing and industry trends. The board monitors manage-ment performance through monthly reports which include reports of financial results, key performance indicators, development of priori-ty activities and so on.50  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016GRI information
Composition of the company2016 2015 2014
Employees  
(number)Female
(percentage)Employees  
(number)Female
(percentage)Employees  
(number)Female
(percentage)
Board of directors 9 33% 9  33% 9 22%
Under 30 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
30–50 7 14% 7 43% 7 29%
Over 50 2 100% 2 0% 2 0%
Managers 115 26% 97 20% 80 29%
Under 30 3 33% 1 0% 0 0%
30–50 89 22% 75 17% 64 30%
Over 50 23 39% 21 29% 16 25%
Other employees 1,088 17% 1,121 17% 1,226 16%
Under 30 309 18% 276 18% 334 19%
30–50 642 16% 696 15% 763 14%
Over 50 137 20% 149 21% 129 19%Employees by country2016 2015 2014
Employees  
(number)Female
(percentage)Employees  
(number)Female
(percentage)Employees  
(number)Female
(percentage)
Sweden 748 20% 765 18% 825 19%
Finland 164 12% 193 10% 250 11%
Poland 253 18% 209 16% 167 17%
India 23 13% 28 25% 31 29%
Singapore 2 50% 13 8% 19 11%
Denmark 13 8% 10 10% 15 7%
Total number of employees 1,203 18% 1,218 17% 1,307 17%   Employees              Key figures and indicators relating to the number of employees relate to December 31 for each year.
Total number of employees at
Cybercom on Dec 312016 2015 2014
Employees  
(number)Female
(percentage)Employees  
(number)Female
(percentage)Employees  
(number)Female
(percentage)
Number of permanent employees 1,185 17% 1,200 17% 1,287 17%
- Of which full-time 1,154 17% 1,200 17% 1,238 16%
- Of which part-time 31 29% 0 0% 52 37%
Number of temporary employees 18 33% 18 28% 20 15%
Total number of employees 1,203 18% 1,218 17% 1,307 17%SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  51GRI information
Collective bargaining 
agreements 2016 2015 2014
Percentage of employees covered 
by collective bargaining agreements 77% 77% 80%
Development reviews 2016 2015 2014
Percentage of employees given development review
Female 89% 89% 83%
Male 84% 81% 83%
All employees 85% 83% 83%
Excl. new recruits
   Environment
Energy
We annually review the electricity consumption at our offices and in our own data centres. Cybercom buys renewable electricity in all countries in Staff turnover2016 2015 2014
Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total
New recruitment during the year 280 237 332
Under 30 34 119 153 12 89 101 28 142 170
30–50 24 95 119 24 109 133 30 121 151
Over 50 1 7 8 0 3 3 2 9 11
Percentage of new recruits 23% 19% 25%
People who left during the year 294 332 279
Under 30 12 50 62 7 58 65 9 66 75
30–50 27 166 193 42 186 228 25 149 174
Over 50 8 31 39 9 30 39 7 23 30
Percentage who ended employment 24% 27% 21%
Sick leave 2016 2015 2014
Percentage of sick leave for each country
Sweden 3.4% 2.6% 2.3%
Finland 3.0% 1.5% 2.4%
Poland 2.0% 1.6% 1.8%
India 0% 2.4% 2.6%
Singapore 0.4% 0.1% 3.0%
Denmark 1.9% 0.0% 0.1%
Average Cybercom 3.0% 2.2% 2.4%
Cybercom had one reported work-related accident in 2016, relating to a minor incident.
Training hours/Employee 2016 2015 2014
Female 17 34 26
Male 18 26 22
All employees 18 27 22
which we operate, except Poland. To convert energy from MWh to GJ, 
use the conversion factor of 3.6. 
Electricity consumption in Cybercom’s offices & data centres 2016 2015 2014
Total electricity consumption  (MWh)  2,356    2,230 2,610
Electricity consumption in relation to sales (MWh/SEKm) 1.7 1.8 2.1
Virtual communications 2016 2015 2014
Number of  Skype meetings 90,086  57,792    18,172
Greenhouse gas emissionsWe measure and annually monitor our greenhouse gas emissions from employee air travel. Greenhouse gas emissions are reported directly by our travel agents in each country. For our operations in Singapore, greenhouse gas emissions are calculated based on distance travelled, reported to us by a travel agent. We do not make our own conversions from other greenhouse gases to CO
2 and therefore have no overall value 
for Global Warming Potential (GWP). We do not use a Radiative Forcing Index (RFI) for emissions from air travel. 
 
Carbon dioxide emissions from air travel in relation to the company’s sales 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Carbon dioxide emissions from air travel (tonnes of CO²) 272 343 640 599 451 903
Carbon dioxide emissions1 in relation to sales (tonnes of CO²/SEKm) 0.20 0.27 0.51 0.50 0.34 0.61
1) Data excludes Cybercom’s joint venture in India. 52  |  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016GRI information
General standard disclosures Pages/remarks Global Compact Principle
G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability p.4-5
G4-3 The name of the organisation Cybercom Group AB
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services p.22-23, 28-29
G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters Stockholm
G4-6 Countries where the organisation has significant operations p.3
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p.0, 46
G4-8 Markets served p.0, 3, 22-23
G4-9 Scale of the organisation p.3
G4-10 Total number of employees p.50
G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p.51 Principle 3 
G4-12 Organisation's supply chain p.45
G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period p.5
G4-14 Whether the precautionary approach is addressed p.5 Principle 7
G4-15 Externally developed initiatives to which the organisation subscribes p.5, 6-7
G4-16 Memberships of associations p.5, 35
G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements p.3
G4-18 Process for defining the report content p.48-49
G4-19 Material aspects identified p.49
G4-20 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary within the organisation p.1
G4-21 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organisation p.1
G4-22 Effect of restatements of information provided in previous reports p.1
G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods No significant changes
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation p.48
G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders p.48
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement p.48
G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded p.48
G4-28 Reporting period p.1
G4-29 Date of most recent previous report spring 2016
G4-30 Reporting cycle p.1
G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report p.53
G4-32 In accordance option & GRI content index p.0, 52-53
G4-33 External assurance p.49
G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation p.49
G4-56 Organisation’s values codes of conduct etc p.0, 47 Principle 10   GRI Index  
The following list makes reference to the GRI indicators that Cybercom has chosen to report and to the ten principles of the Global Compact.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  |  53GRI information
Specific standard disclosures Page Global Compact Principle
DMA Economic performance p.3, 5
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 49
DMA Employment p.35-37
G4-LA1 Employee turnover p.51
DMA Occupational health & safety p.35-37
G4-LA6 Absenteeism & work-related injury p.51
DMA Training & education p.35-37
G4-LA9 Employee training p.51
G4-LA11 Development reviews p.51
DMA Diversity and equal opportunity p.35-37, 47 Principle 6
G4-LA12 Composition of organisation p.37
DMA Non-discrimination p.35-37, 47 Principle 1, 2, 4, 5 & 6
G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination No incidents reported in 2016
DMA Anti-corruption p.45, 47 Principle 10
G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption No incidents reported in 2016
DMA Customer privacy p.45, 47 Principle 1
G4-PR8 Number of losses of customer data No incidents reported in 2016
DMA Energy p.45 Principle 8
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation p.51
G4-EN5 Energy intensity p.51
DMA Emissions p. 45 Principle 8
G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions p.51
G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity p.51
DMA Products & services p.24-25 Principle 9
G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services p.24-25, 45
DMA Product and service labelling p.28-29
G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction p.28-29
For more information about this report and our sustainability work, please contact Kristina Cato, kristina.cato@cybercom.com
Production: Cybercom in cooperation with Narva. Photography: Mattias Bardå (page 17: Jann Lipka). Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet, Mölnlycke 2017.Nordiska Miljömärkningen Svanen
•  Färgkod PMS 354, Fyrfärgskod C-91%, M-0,0%, Y-83%, K-0,0%.
•  Standardfärger enligt SS 019100 – 019103
   Blankt papper:  1080G10Y  Matt papper: 354U-1070G
   NCS: 0879-G07Y  NCS:     1368-G04Y
•  Miljömärket bör ej understiga 8 mm och ska minst ha den  
   storleken att texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” och underliggande licensnumme r
   är tydligt läsbara.
•  När märket understiger 2 cm i diameter kan den förklarande undertexten
   utelämnas på produkten (T rycksak), om den finns med märket på förpackningen .
Text på märket :
•  Texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” följer märkets rundade form på ovansidan .
•  Texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” med versaler och teckensnitt Helvetica, rak ,
   halvfet. Teckentäthet och teckengrad anpassas till märkets storlek .
•  Texten under märket ”T rycksak” skrivs horisontellt under si ffergrupperna (341 000). 
   Teckensnitt helvetica, rak används med versal som begynnelsebokstav , f ö gemener , 
   och anpassas i storlek till märket
•  För tryckning på Svanen på andra nordiska språk studera Regelverket för 
   nordisk miljömärkning.
       MILJÖMÄRKT  Trycksak 3041 0250
Tel. 08-578 646 00  |  www.cybercom.se
Cybercom Group AB  |  Box 7574
103 93 StockholmCybercom är ett innovativt IT-konsult -
bolag som hjälper ledande företag och 
organisationer att ta tillvara på den 
uppkopplade världens möjligheter. 
Våra konsulter och de lösningar de 
skapar tar oss hela vägen från nordisk 
offentlig sektors e-tjänster till mobilitet 
i Karibiska ö-världen, streamad media 
och förarlösa bilar i Europa, nationella eIDs, säkra kortbetalningar samt 
hälsoappar till sjukvården, uppkopp
-
lade lyftkranar och hissar och smarta 
industriella robotar. 
Cybercom grundades 1995. Idag  
täcker bolagets expertisområden  
hela ekosystemet inom kommuni -
kationstjänster och IT-säkerhet. Vi är ett mångfaldsrikt bolag med stort åldersspann och många nationaliteter. 
Tillsammans skapar vi morgondagen, 
 
vi är kreativa, orädda och nyfikna –  
alltid redo att utmana status quo.  
Vi går från ord till handling och  
möjliggör förändring. Vi är #Makers  
of tomorrow. 
VI HJÄLPER FÖRETAG, ORGANISATIONER 
OCH MYNDIGHETER 
Cybercom är sedan 2015 ett privatägt 
bolag. Huvudägare är JCE Group AB 
och Tequity AB. Mellan 1999–2015 var Cybercom noterat på Stockholms-
 
börsen. Cybercoms hemmamarknad är Norden och Polen, därtill erbjuder bola
-
get global leveranskapacitet för lokala och internationella affärer.
I vår kommunikation använder 
 
vi oss främst av digitala kanaler.  
Hållbarhetsredovisningen är den  
enda trycksaken som vi producerar  
på koncernnivå.
Bydgoszcz  I  Göteborg  I  Helsingfors   
Jönköping  I  Karlskrona  I  Kista  I  Köpenhamn  Linköping  I  Lund  I  Łódz  I  Malmö  
Mumbai  I  Stockholm  I  Sundsvall    Tammerfors  I  Warszawa  I  Östersund ´