2021 Sustainability Report2021 Danaher Sustainability Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
2021 Sustainability Report
From Our CEO EnvironmentDanaher at a 
GlanceInnovation People02 04 11 19 38 45 65 67
Foundational 
ElementsAbout This 
ReportAppendices
Cover Photo: Morning Mood  by Jessika Schugardt, OTT HydroMet associate2021 Danaher Sustainability Report2LETTER FROM OUR CEO 
From Our CEO
It is an honor to share Danaher’s 2021 Sustainability 
Report with you. As I reflect on the past year, I’m 
incredibly proud of our team’s adaptability and resilience 
as we responded to the unique challenges of a global 
pandemic without compromising our sustainability 
commitment. We contributed directly to the worldwide 
fight against COVID-19, and our associates demonstrated 
tremendous dedication as they turned challenges into 
impactful opportunities to help our customers and the 
global community.
In recent years, the increased urgency for bold leadership around 
diversity and inclusion (D+I) and climate change has inspired us 
to aim even higher with our sustainability goals. As with all our 
endeavors at Danaher, the spirit of continuous improvement that’s 
at the heart of the Danaher Business System (DBS) has motivated 
our pursuits and helped us positively impact the world around us in 
meaningful ways.
At Danaher, we view sustainability as a fundamental responsibility 
and an increasingly important strategic priority that touches every 
aspect of our business. To us, sustainability is a commitment to 
Helping Realize Life’s Potential for generations of stakeholders—
considering the long-term interests of our associates, customers, 
shareholders, business partners, communities and planet in 
everything we do. With DBS as our driving force, we have made 
measurable progress across our three sustainability pillars: the 
Innovation  that fuels world-shaping advances across an array of 
scientific disciplines; the People  at the heart of our teams, along 
with their families and communities; and the Environment  that 
sustains us.Innovation
Innovation Defines Our Future , one of our five Core Values, 
inspires us to be a force for good as we solve our customers’ 
most complex challenges. This was at the forefront of our 
COVID-19 response, as our teams acted quickly to launch 
new diagnostic tests, help customers develop and produce 
new vaccines and therapeutics in record time, and rapidly 
expand production capacity to meet increased demand. At 
the same time, we continued to invest for the future across 
our businesses, focusing our innovation efforts on new 
technologies and solutions in anticipation of the challenges our 
customers will encounter. Across Life Sciences, our innovative 
offering is helping drive a revolution in biology that holds 
the promise of making more life-saving treatments available 
to more patients by applying scientific and technological 
breakthroughs at scale. Our Diagnostics businesses are unified 
around making a difference in acute care, empowering clinicians 
with the tools they need for faster, more accurate diagnoses to 
drive better patient outcomes. And in Environmental & Applied 
Solutions, our businesses are focused on protecting the world’s 
most precious resources.
At Danaher, our world-shaping innovations are the product 
of a rigorous model and toolset we call the DBS Innovation 
Engine , a clear methodology to develop, protect and measure 
the impact of our growing body of intellectual property. Our 
strength in replicable processes helps us ensure a systematic 
approach to ongoing innovation at Danaher while fostering 
the necessary flexibility for creativity and disruptive ideas. We 
are also investing in cultivating top research and development 
talent and building a strong scientific community within 
Danaher. Dr. Jose-Carlos Gutiérrez-Ramos joined us in
GRI: 102-14, UN: SDG-132021 Danaher Sustainability Report3LETTER FROM OUR CEO 
December 2020 as Chief Science Officer to elevate our science and 
technology capabilities at all levels and lead our newly-formed Scientific 
Advisory Board, which is comprised of globally renowned scientists including 
two Nobel laureates. This combination of top-caliber expertise and rigorous 
processes gives me great confidence in our ongoing ability to deliver impactful 
breakthroughs across our businesses.
People
Our people are at the heart of everything we do. They are the lifeblood of 
our culture and our competitive advantage, as expressed in our core value 
The Best Team Wins . We believe that the best team is a diverse and engaged 
one, where each team member is inspired to do their best work and feels a 
powerful sense of belonging. Though our D+I journey is by no means new, 
its importance continues to grow. In last year’s Sustainability Report we 
included quantitative targets for our diversity representation, and based on 
our continued progress we are increasing our 2025 goal for U.S. People of 
Color to 38% from 35%. This year’s Report reflects even greater transparency 
in our diversity metrics and our commitment to human rights. You will see 
our new policy statement on human rights as well as new D+I metrics and 
data that we are publicly disclosing for the first time, with a particular focus 
on diversity representation and pay equity. We are also taking a closer look 
at how engagement and promoting leaders from within can help us build and 
strengthen our winning team. 
We have made progress, especially at the leadership level, but the diversity 
of our overall associate population has not yet met our aspirations. To achieve 
this, we are pursuing a D+I breakthrough across the entire Company. 
At Danaher, when we reach for bold objectives that we care deeply about, 
we turn to Policy Deployment (PD), a DBS tool that helps our operating 
companies determine their critical few Improvement Priorities and create new, 
sustainable processes to execute their strategic action plans. I’m pleased to 
announce that beginning in 2021, all Danaher operating companies have added 
D+I as a PD initiative to catalyze sustainable progress toward achievement of 
our goals and enhance our competitive advantage.Environment
Across Danaher, we have long considered the environmental impact 
of our products and operations. Our planet is facing unprecedented 
environmental challenges, and we are acutely aware of our role in 
helping conserve and protect our precious natural resources and 
mitigate the effects of climate change. Our new Sustainability Policy , 
detailed in the pages that follow, articulates Danaher’s expectations and 
requirements around mitigating our environmental impact—including 
our commitment to leverage DBS to support our environmental program 
and goals.
Our deep commitment to continuous improvement compels us to 
take meaningful actions that benefit the greater good and to fulfill our 
obligations as global stewards of the environment. As we seek to make 
measurable progress on this front, we are fortunate to have DBS as our 
driving force. In 2020, we announced our goals to reduce our energy 
consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, and the percentage of non-
hazardous/non-regulated waste sent to landfill or incineration—each 
by 15% by the year 2024. To help operationalize these improvements 
across our businesses, we have broadened the application of our DBS 
energy management and waste reduction toolkits. We believe that 
setting explicit goals provides the transparency and accountability 
necessary to drive meaningful change, and we’ll continue to prioritize 
measurable progress across the many facets of our environmental 
stewardship.In Closing
Every day across Danaher, we strive to positively impact 
the world around us in meaningful ways. We feel a strong 
sense of responsibility to do just that and see tremendous 
opportunities across our three pillars of sustainability: 
Innovation , People  and the Environment . When we bring 
together our innovative portfolio, the dedication of our 
passionate people, and our deeply ingrained commitment 
to continuous improvement, our potential to create a better 
world is limitless. 
Thank you for your partnership in Helping Realize Life’s 
Potential  now and for generations to come. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rainer M. Blair  
President and CEO
GRI: 102-14, UN: SDG-132021 Danaher Sustainability Report4Helping Realize Life’s Potential
Highlights  
 
Our Story  
 
How We WorkSustainability at Danaher  
 
Our Businesses5 
 
6 
 
78 
 
9
DANAHER AT A GLANCE
Kite Flying in Tofino, British Columbia by Neil Abhyankar, Leica Biosystems associate2021 Danaher Sustainability Report5DANAHER AT A GLANCE
Danaher is a global science and technology innovator 
committed to helping customers solve complex challenges 
and improving quality of life around the world.
2020 Highlights
Danaher Revenue Life Sciences Revenue
Associates Diagnostics Revenue
Operating CompaniesEnvironmental & Applied 
Solutions Revenue$22.3 Billion $10.6 Billion
$7.4 Billion
$4.3 Billion69,000
20+
GRI: 102-3, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 201-1
SASB: RT-EE-000.B
We enable meaningful innovation in some of today’s most dynamic, fast-growing industries. 
Our groundbreaking global businesses transform the fields of life sciences, diagnostics, water 
quality and product identification.2021 Danaher Sustainability Report6DANAHER AT A GLANCE
Our Story
Danaher takes its name from a tributary of the South Fork Flathead 
River in western Montana. In the early 1980s, this was the setting for the 
fishing trip where Steven and Mitchell Rales envisioned a new kind of 
manufacturing company—one dedicated to continuous improvement and 
customer satisfaction. The root “Dana” is an ancient Celtic word meaning 
“swift flowing,” an apt descriptor for the nimble mindset and rapid flow of 
innovation that have defined Danaher for decades.
Danaher was established in 1984 and initially consisted of a group of 
discrete, manufacturing businesses. Soon thereafter, it was one of the 
first companies in North America to adopt kaizen, the Japanese business 
philosophy of continuous improvement. The practice led to the development 
of the Danaher Business System  (DBS) and continues to guide our culture, 
at the heart of Danaher’s five Core Values.
Starting in the mid-1990s, Danaher organized its businesses around strategic 
platforms with sustainable competitive advantages in sizable global markets. 
Over the next decade Danaher established leadership positions in the sectors 
that define it today, beginning with water in 1998 and followed by product 
identification (2001), diagnostics (2006) and life sciences (2009).Today, Danaher is a science and technology innovator committed 
to helping our customers solve complex challenges and improving 
quality of life around the world. A global family of more than 20 
operating companies, our groundbreaking businesses transform 
the fields of life sciences, diagnostics, water quality and product 
identification by:
• Helping  scientists around the world work at a   
 molecular level to understand chronic disease and  
 infection, develop and produce new therapies and 
 test new drugs
• Providing  critical tools and software for clinicians 
 to safeguard patient health, improve diagnostic   
 confidence, and enhance patient care
• Ensuring  the freshness and safety of food,   
 pharmaceuticals and consumer goods
• Protecting  our global water supply and promoting  
 environmental stewardship
GRI: 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 201-1
Sunrise at Flathead Lake, Montana by Jake Johnson, Hach associate2021 Danaher Sustainability Report7DANAHER AT A GLANCE
Our Shared Purpose
Our Shared Purpose —Helping Realize Life’s Potential —is our inspiration 
for everything that we do. Our innovations solve customers’ most complex 
problems, address emerging societal challenges, enable greater access to 
healthcare, and help ensure a cleaner, safer environment. 
Our Core Values
From supporting our customers and creating tomorrow’s breakthrough 
innovations to developing diverse teams and delivering long-term shareholder 
value, our Core Values guide us in our pursuit to make each day better than 
the last:How We Work
GRI: 102-16The Danaher Business System
The Danaher Business System (DBS) has been the foundation 
of our performance and culture since our Company’s earliest days. 
The world—and our portfolio of businesses—has changed 
meaningfully since then, and our DBS tools and processes have 
evolved along with it. In the spirit of continuous improvement, 
we seek to always enhance and optimize DBS to ensure that we 
are best serving all our stakeholders.
Guided by our Core Values and inspired by our Shared Purpose, 
DBS drives a continuous cycle of innovation and improvement. 
It helps us navigate our toughest challenges, deliver innovative 
products and solutions, grow our businesses and develop the very 
best teams. DBS is who we are and how we do what we do. 
• The Best Team Wins 
• Customers Talk, We Listen 
• Kaizen Is Our Way of Life 
• Innovation Defines Our Future 
• We Compete for Shareholders
Bee on an Apple Blossom by Jessika Schugardt, OTT HydroMet associate“We are a purpose-led, high performing team driven by the power 
of the Danaher Business System. With a strong foundation built 
on a commitment to integrity, compliance and sound governance, 
Danaher strives to help realize life’s potential for all our stakeholders.”
RAINER M. BLAIR, PRESIDENT & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER2021 Danaher Sustainability Report8DANAHER AT A GLANCE
Sustainability at Danaher
Sustainability Mission Statement 
Our Sustainability Mission Statement articulates what sustainability means 
to Danaher and the important role it plays in our work:
A foundation of integrity, compliance and sound governance, 
which we refer to as the Foundational Elements of our sustainability 
program, underpins these three pillars.
These pillars are based on the intersection of Danaher’s key strategic 
and sustainability goals, which were identified through a materialityassessment conducted in 2017 with the support of an 
outside consultant. The materiality assessment collected 
feedback from a range of internal and external stakeholders 
and extensively benchmarked peer best practices. We expect 
to complete a refreshed materiality assessment by the end 
of 2021 and are committed to periodically refreshing it in 
the future. For more detail regarding our regular cadence 
of stakeholder engagement, please see “Stakeholder 
Engagement Program.”
Sustainability Oversight
At the Board level, Danaher’s Nominating and Governance 
Committee oversees our sustainability program as set forth 
in the committee’s charter . Each of the Board of Directors 
and the Nominating and Governance Committee reviews our 
sustainability program at least annually.
At the management level, Danaher’s Senior Vice President 
and General Counsel, who reports directly to our President 
and CEO, oversees our sustainability program and the 
Sustainability Committee, and is responsible for reviewing 
and approving Danaher’s Sustainability Reports. 
Danaher’s Sustainability Committee is responsible for 
developing and overseeing the execution of our sustainability 
strategy. The Committee is comprised of representatives 
from each of our business platforms, and the human 
resources (HR), environmental health and safety, D+I, DBS, 
procurement, communications, investor relations and legal 
functions.Foundational Elements
Ethics, Compliance  
and Governance
Innovation People Environment
Helping Solve  
Problems Through 
InnovationHelping People  
Reach Their 
PotentialHelping Protect  
the EnvironmentSustainability Strategy and Pillars
We believe in harnessing Danaher’s scale and resources to drive 
company-wide sustainability initiatives while empowering our 
operating companies to pursue sustainability in ways that best fit 
the needs of their particular stakeholders. With this framework in 
mind, we have developed a sustainability strategy based on our 
Shared Purpose and Core Values, and organized around three pillars:
Sustainability Policy
Our Sustainability Policy  explains how our commitment to sustainability 
flows naturally from our Shared Purpose and our Core Values and 
addresses our expectations and requirements with respect to key 
dimensions of sustainability.
GRI: 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-29, 102-32, 102-43, 102-47
TCFD: Governance2021 Danaher Sustainability Report9DANAHER AT A GLANCE
Our Businesses
Life Sciences
Every day, scientists around the world work to understand the causes of disease, develop new 
therapies and vaccines, and test new drugs. Our Life Sciences businesses make this leading-edge 
scientific research possible. Our capabilities extend beyond research to power the creation of 
biopharmaceuticals, cell and gene therapies and other breakthrough treatments to advance patient 
health and improve treatment outcomes.Diagnostics
Our Diagnostics businesses provide clinical instrumentation, consumables and software to help 
healthcare professionals safeguard patient health and improve diagnostic confidence wherever 
health care happens—from clinics and physician’s offices to leading trauma, cancer and critical care 
centers. Our instruments, data access solutions and management systems improve efficiency and 
automate workflows in laboratories, helping healthcare professionals provide better patient care.
 2020 Revenue $7.4 Billion
 
HIGH-GROWTH MARKETS: 33%  
OTHER DEVELOPED MARKETS : 5% NORTH AMERICA: 43%  
WESTERN EUROPE: 19% Geographic Mix2020 Revenue $10.6 Billion
HIGH-GROWTH MARKETS: 28%  
OTHER DEVELOPED MARKETS : 7% NORTH AMERICA: 37%  
WESTERN EUROPE: 28%  Geographic Mix
Acquired 2021
GRI: 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 201-1
UN: SDG 3, 8, 92021 Danaher Sustainability Report10DANAHER AT A GLANCE
Environmental and Applied Solutions
From innovative consumer packaging to drinking water purification, our Environmental and 
Applied Solutions (EAS) businesses help protect precious resources and keep our global food and 
water supplies safe. EAS is comprised of two platforms: Water Quality and Product Identification.
Water Quality
As the world’s population increases, so too does the demand for our most precious resource: 
water. Our Water Quality businesses help protect the global water supply and ensure environmental 
stewardship. We deliver precision instrumentation, advanced purification technology, software and 
treatment solutions to help analyze, disinfect and manage the world’s water across environmental, 
municipal, commercial and industrial applications.
Product Identification
Every day, we trust packaging to ensure freshness, consistency and authenticity of products 
around the world. Our Product Identification businesses provide color management, packaging 
design, and marking and coding technologies used to help protect the world’s food supply, secure 
pharmaceutical packaging and track consumer goods. This is complemented by comprehensive 
digital tools and software solutions that help our customers bring more products to market.    
2020 Revenue $4.3 Billion
HIGH-GROWTH MARKETS: 29% 
OTHER DEVELOPED MARKETS : 3%NORTH AMERICA: 45%  
WESTERN EUROPE: 23%  Geographic Mix
GRI: 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 201-1
UN: SDG 3, 6, 8, 9, 142021 Danaher Sustainability Report11Helping Solve Problems Through Innovation
Innovation Defines Our Future 
 
Life Sciences  Diagnostics  
 
Environmental & Applied Solutions12 
 
13 15 
 
17
INNOVATION
The Milky Way Viewed From the Northern California Coastline by Yvonne Chan, Cepheid associate2021 Danaher Sustainability Report12One of Danaher’s Core Values is “Innovation Defines Our Future.” 
Our leading-edge products and solutions give true meaning to our 
Shared Purpose— Helping Realize Life’s Potential —by enhancing quality 
of life today and setting the foundation for a better world for future 
generations.  
At Danaher, innovation doesn’t happen by accident. It is the product 
of the DBS Innovation Engine, a rigorous management program that is 
part of a larger suite of integrated, function-specific DBS management 
programs and tools. The Innovation Engine is a holistic program 
encompassing tools that facilitate innovation, process, strategy, 
organization, talent and culture. A Danaher Executive Vice President 
is the executive sponsor with management-level responsibility for the 
Innovation Engine. Key elements include the following:
• A strategic framework for innovation and a process to identify 
 and quantify how innovation will support our business’s strategic 
 and financial goals.
• An innovation model that categorizes different types of 
 innovation, and identifies market dynamics, leadership style 
 and intellectual property (IP) attributes that best fit each 
 innovation type. Our operating companies use this model to 
 identify innovation that is valuable within the context of their 
 served markets and the characteristics of their business.
• Tools that prioritize the identification of high-value 
 customer problems and support the development of  
 products, services and technologies to solve them.
• A methodology for continuous improvement that 
 assesses how effectively each engine component is 
 applied and measures the overall effect on growth.Danaher’s IP strategy and management program, which 
we refer to as our IP Vision, is a critical enabler of the DBS 
Innovation Engine. With a focus on people, process and 
culture, key elements of our IP Vision include the following:
• A common IP language and framework, strategy  
 and business maturity model across Danaher.
• A methodology for ensuring that a business’s IP 
 organization aligns with its strategic objectives.
• An educational program designed to drive IP 
 fluency within relevant functions across Danaher.
• A single technology platform that stores and 
 categorizes IP assets across Danaher.
• A unique metric that combines IP, market and 
 financial characteristics to measure the quality 
 of a business’s competitive positioning and identify 
 risks and opportunities.
In the following sections, we illustrate the impact of the DBS 
Innovation Engine and our IP Vision through key strategic 
themes in each of our business segments and examples of 
breakthrough innovations that are driving those strategies. 
These examples are representative of the broader positive 
impact that Danaher’s innovation has on quality of life around 
the world, and the rigorous process that underlies innovation 
at Danaher gives us confidence that the best is yet to come.INNOVATION
Innovation Defines Our Future
Leaves Joy by Annie Xin Liu, Pall associate
GRI: 102-16, 102-20, 203-1, 203-2
UN: SDG 3, 6, 8, 92021 Danaher Sustainability Report13Our understanding of and ability to harness biology is undergoing a 
significant transformation, as science and technology are applied at scale 
to discover, develop and deliver new biologic drugs, therapies, vaccines and 
tests (“biologics”) more rapidly and more efficiently—changing healthcare 
as we know it.
This revolution in biological understanding is accelerating time-to-market and 
lowering costs to improve accessibility to biologics like COVID-19 vaccines 
and gene therapies. These improvements can be achieved across a range of 
applications, including the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, biomedical 
research, academic, clinical laboratory, applied market and contract 
manufacturing sectors.
The breadth of our Life Sciences offerings and our expertise in scaling 
technology and optimizing workflow integration position Danaher to take a 
leading role in this transformation. Our businesses provide technologies, tools 
and scientific expertise to standardize, streamline, scale and automate critical 
processes—unlocking the power of science to improve and save lives and 
fulfill our Shared Purpose: Helping Realize Life’s Potential . Here we highlight 
examples of how our innovative technologies are helping drive this revolution.
Scaling Up COVID-19 Vaccine Manufacturing 
Processes at Unprecedented Speed
Our extensive offerings across the bioprocessing workflow position us 
exceptionally well to help customers bring vaccines and therapies to market 
faster. In addition to our leading filtration, chromatography and single-use 
technologies, the innovative teams at Pall  and Cytiva  provide customers 
with deep technical expertise to enable breakthrough development and 
production capabilities. Pall’s Process Development Services team is helping 
customers scale up their COVID-19 vaccine production processessignificantly faster—in one instance, accomplishing in just a few 
weeks what typically takes months or even years.
Accelerating New Biologic Drug Production 
with Data Science
With the launch of IDBS Polar, IDBS  created a new category 
of scientific software, known as Biopharmaceutical Lifecycle 
Management. Polar provides a first-of-its-kind “data backbone” 
for the biopharmaceutical industry, making it possible for 
interdisciplinary teams of biologists, chemists, engineers, and other 
experts to holistically capture data across different points in the 
drug development process. This innovative new product is designed 
to help speed up the drug development lifecycle by up to 3 years, 
reduce operational inefficiencies by up to 40%, and avoid the 10% 
re-work that is typically attributable to poor data access.
Shaping the Future of 3D Biology Research
Compared to their 2D counterparts, complex 3D cell culture models 
(known as organoids) more closely resemble human biology and 
can help move more potential medicines from labs into real-world 
clinical trials. Yet scientists often default to familiar, simple-to-handle 
2D cell cultures. To help drive awareness and familiarity with this 
important approach to research, Molecular Devices  opened a state-
of-the-art innovation center to showcase a new end-to-end solution 
that automates organoid workflows and serves as a testing ground 
for accelerating drug discovery with 3D biology. Whether it’s cell 
culture, treatment, or incubation, Molecular Devices’ cutting-edge 
solution uses intuitive scheduling software to connect steps in theimaging, analysis, data processing and informatics processes 
to produce more effective therapeutics, faster.
DBS Drives Life Sciences Innovation
Through the application of DBS innovation tools including 
Speed Design Review, Customer-Centric Product Definition 
and Visual Project Management, Beckman Coulter 
Life Sciences and SCIEX  collaborated to develop the 
breakthrough Echo MS solution 18 months faster than it 
would have taken using traditional product development 
practices. Echo MS uses advanced Acoustic Droplet Ejection 
technology to analyze three biological samples (e.g., blood, 
plasma or urine) per second, which is 50 times faster than 
ever before. With Echo MS, researchers can confidently 
process large numbers of samples in rapid succession 
without compromising analytical precision or sensitivity. INNOVATION
Life Sciences
Nature Perfection by Sebastian Pyrsak, Beckman Coulter associate
GRI: 102-2, 203-1, 203-2
UN: SDG 3, 8, 92021 Danaher Sustainability Report14
Scaling the Human Factor for Scientific Advancements
Pall’s  Scientific and Laboratory Services team of scientists and engineers provides the expertise 
to help customers scale and accelerate the development of biologic drugs. This team runs 
approximately 2,000 product evaluation experiments each year at customer sites, serving as an 
extension of customers’ process development and manufacturing teams. Notably, Pall’s scientists 
conducted over 150 thought leadership activities in 2020, including webinars, conference 
presentations and the publication of book chapters, journal articles and peer-reviewed papers.
Sequencing Proteins to Match the Power of Sequencing Genes
When it comes to advancing the detection and treatment of disease, it is critical to understand 
how the thousands of proteins in the cells of the body are regulated and modified. The proteins 
that change during illness are called biomarkers and can be used by doctors as a “canary in the 
coal mine” warning system. But so far, we have only scratched the surface in discovering these 
protein biomarkers.  SCIEX’s  next-generation ZenoTOF 7600 system can monitor 4,000 proteins per 
hour—40% more than previous systems on the market—or can analyze samples 5x faster for large 
population studies, giving proteomics (the study of proteins) the potential to match the power of 
genomics. This advancement will help scientists uncover more and better protein biomarkers and 
help advance the goal of precision medicine, where the right drug is given to the right patient at the 
right time for improved outcomes.“Flex” Biopharma Manufacturing with Innovative,  
Single-Use Technologies
Cytiva’s  revolutionary FlexFactory solution reduces the time to set-up a biomanufacturing facility 
from 18-36 months to under 12 months, while reducing the necessary capital expenditure by up 
to 50%. It supports biopharma companies shifting from traditional stainless-steel manufacturing 
infrastructure to single-use technologies to develop biologic drugs and a wide range of innovative 
new therapies. Using FlexFactory, a biopharma company can establish identical drug manufacturing 
infrastructure in any number of locations around the world, helping ensure consistency of drug 
quality and faster time to market.
Making DNA Manufacturing Faster, More Cost Effective
The DNA components needed for biological research experiments used to be made in-house by 
the biologists themselves, with typical large labs producing about 10 of their own DNA fragments 
in a month. Integrated DNA Technologies (IDT) has scaled DNA manufacturing to make more high-
quality DNA faster, better and at a lower cost than individual labs could. IDT can now make more 
than 100,000 customized DNA fragments per day at significantly less cost than “homemade DNA,” 
with the option for next-day delivery. Outsourcing DNA synthesis enables molecular biologists to 
focus on biology, rather than making the DNA fragments needed to do their work.INNOVATION
GRI: 102-2, 203-1, 203-2
UN: SDG 3, 8, 92021 Danaher Sustainability Report15Our Diagnostics businesses provide a broad range of leading solutions that help healthcare 
systems and clinicians meet the needs of acutely and chronically ill patients. We are investing to 
deliver more innovative diagnostic solutions to improve access to healthcare and address unmet 
needs in these areas. Faster and more accurate diagnoses drive better quality outcomes through 
earlier interventions and shortened hospital stays, while also driving efficiencies and conserving 
precious healthcare resources. Here we highlight several examples of our most impactful acute care 
technologies and solutions.
A Leader in the Response to COVID-19
Danaher’s Diagnostics operating companies are leaders in COVID-19-related diagnostics 
and patient monitoring in acute care settings. When the magnitude of the pandemic became 
apparent in early 2020, our Diagnostics businesses sprang into action, leveraging the power 
of DBS to bring life-saving technologies to market at unprecedented speed.
Cepheid  offers testing solutions for healthcare settings that quickly and accurately diagnose and 
triage patients, enabling faster time to intervention and—importantly in pandemics—segregation of 
infected patients to protect healthcare workers and other patients. Cepheid’s Xpert Xpress SARS-
CoV-2 was the first point-of-care molecular diagnostic test for COVID-19 that received Emergency 
Use Authorization from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) during the pandemic. In 2020, 
the Xpert Xpress SARS-CoV-2 test delivered reference lab quality results in point-of-care settings in 
over 180 countries to combat the spread of the virus. Cepheid tests were also deployed early in the 
COVID-19 pandemic to support the development process and clinical trials for vaccines. Cepheid 
continued to innovate by deploying a rapid four-in-one test for COVID-19, Flu A, Flu B and RSV to 
help clinicians distinguish among viruses with common symptoms and help ensure patients receive 
the right care.Radiometer’s blood gas testing solutions provide vital information on oxygen, carbon dioxide levels 
and other parameters in blood. Throughout the pandemic, Radiometer blood gas solutions have 
been essential in addressing the testing needs of the dramatically increased number of patients 
admitted to intensive care units (ICUs) with COVID-19. In response to the significant increase in 
demand for its blood gas analyzers, Radiometer used DBS to increase production capacity by 50% 
in 2020 and delivered analyzers to over 130 countries. 
 
Beckman Coulter Diagnostics swiftly launched several new solutions to help address the 
COVID-19 pandemic, including:  
 
• COVID-19 IgG and IgM serology tests to qualitatively detect antibodies produced against 
 the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, providing reliable information to support 
 individual health decisions. 
• The Access Interleukin 6 (IL-6) assay to detect IL-6 levels in blood serum and plasma to help 
 physicians identify a severe inflammatory response and determine the risk of intubation 
 with mechanical ventilation in COVID-19 patients.  INNOVATION
Diagnostics
GRI: 102-2, 201-1, 203-1, 203-2
UN: SDG 3, 8, 92021 Danaher Sustainability Report16Making a Difference in Other Acute  
Care Applications
Diagnostic testing laboratories are focused on enhancing patient care by 
accelerating turnaround time and improving testing quality and workflow 
efficiency. Beckman Coulter Diagnostics’ DxA 5000 Total Laboratory 
Automation System helps labs meet these objectives with a collection 
of patented innovations that reduce the number of manual processing 
steps, deliver rapid and consistent testing turnaround time and conduct 
automated quality control checks of patient samples. In July 2020, the DxA 
5000 won the Scientists’ Choice Award® for Best New Clinical Laboratory 
Instrumentation of 2019. The latest generation of the DxA platform and the 
first compact workflow automation solution, the DxA 5000 FIT, reduces the 
typical pre- and post-analytical manual steps by up to 80%.
Beckman Coulter Diagnostics’ Access High Sensitivity Troponin I assay gives 
clinicians fast, accurate information regarding heart attack risk in the early 
stages of emergency department triage. The assay accurately identifies ≥94% 
of true acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients in as little as one hour and 
enables more accurate identification of women with AMI through sex-specific 
diagnostic cut-offs.
Point-of-care sexual health testing with Cepheid’s  GeneXpert® System  
delivers fast turnaround of highly accurate, clinically actionable results. 
With tests like Xpert® CT/NG and Xpert® TV, same-day testing at 
emergency departments and community clinics can reduce the spread of 
disease and the unnecessary use of antibiotics as well as the risk of losing 
patients when follow-up is required.
Radiometer’s  ABL90 FLEX PLUS blood gas analyzer delivers blood gas 
results in just 35 seconds across 19 parameters, including creatinine and 
urea. Creatinine results at the point-of-care help clinicians identify patients 
at risk of acute kidney injury and help assess the patient’s kidney status 
before CT or MRI scans to determine if there is a risk of contrast-induced 
nephropathy. Creatinine and urea results can also help assess dehydration 
and gastrointestinal bleeding.Improving Access to Healthcare in 
Developing Markets
Each day, nearly 4,500 people lose their lives to tuberculosis (TB). 
As the global community grapples with the worldwide re-emergence 
of TB and increasing number of drug-resistant strains, the need for 
fast and accurate TB diagnosis with indication for drug resistance is 
greater than ever. Cepheid’s  Xpert MTB/RIF test has revolutionized 
the management of TB infections by providing a faster and more 
accurate diagnosis that detects both TB and resistance to the 
commonly used antibiotic rifampicin. Following the World Health 
Organization’s endorsement in 2010, Xpert MTB/RIF has helped 
improve TB programs in over 130 countries. Through partnerships 
in the world’s most TB-challenged geographies, Cepheid’s High 
Burden Developing Country program has placed thousands of 
GeneXpert systems and delivered millions of Xpert test cartridges 
to communities in need. Cepheid continues to enhance this program 
with life-saving innovations such as remote calibration and an 
expanded low-cost testing menu. 
Anemia is a global health problem affecting nearly 50% of all 
preschool-aged children and more than 40% of pregnant women 
worldwide. HemoCue  is dedicated to addressing this health priority 
with its lab-accurate hemoglobin point-of-care testing. The ability 
to detect anemia on the spot enables clinicians to provide immediate 
corrective treatment to improve the health of young children, 
mothers and babies. In India, HemoCue is installing more than 
1,300 systems in the districts of Madhya Pradesh as part of a 
nationwide initiative to reduce anemia in women of reproductive 
age by 3% every year.
INNOVATION
GRI: 102-2, 102-6, 201-1, 203-1, 203-2
SASB: HC-BP-240a.1 UN: SDG 3, 8, 92021 Danaher Sustainability Report17From drinking water purification to innovative consumer packaging and marking, Danaher’s 
Environmental and Applied Solutions businesses protect precious resources and help keep our 
global food and water supplies safe. Our Water Quality businesses deliver precision instrumentation 
and advanced purification technology to help analyze, treat and manage the world’s water, from 
municipal and wastewater to lakes, streams and oceans. And our Product Identification businesses 
touch consumer, industrial and pharmaceutical products throughout the supply chain to help ensure 
freshness, consistency, safety, and accurate labeling and tracking. Here we highlight examples of 
how our innovative solutions are used to protect the world’s most precious resources.
Supporting Environmental Protection & Conservation
Oceans, seas, and coastal areas form an integrated and essential component of the Earth’s 
ecosystem. They cover more than two-thirds of the Earth’s surface and contain 97% of the planet’s 
water. Sea-Bird Scientific’s Conductivity, Temperature and Depth sensors and Biogeochemical-Argo 
floats are released in the open ocean to measure ocean health with real-time data-recording, 
compared to the alternative of more static, ship-based measurements. The U.S. National Oceanic & 
Atmospheric Administration and other large maritime international agencies use these instruments 
to help track, understand and predict how the impact of climate change on the world’s oceans will 
affect ecosystems, communities and economies.
Measuring Rising Sea Levels Caused by Climate Change
OTT HydroMet’s  Pluvio² L is an all-weather precipitation gauge that measures the amount and 
intensity of rain, snow and hail, providing valuable insights to help inform water and weather 
experts’ decision-making. The Pluvio series was specifically designed for deployment in extreme 
weather conditions. In Antarctica, climate science researchers from the University of Colorado 
Boulder and the US National Center for Atmospheric Research are using Pluvio to investigate 
methods to measure accumulating snowfall, temperature and windspeed. These measurements 
provide crucial insights regarding the potential for rising sea levels caused by climate change. Managing the World’s Water Data
Aquatic Informatics’ real-time data management and analytics platform, Aquarius, enables water 
operators to make better decisions at any time and from any location. Since 2005, the U.S. 
Geological Survey (USGS) has relied on Aquarius to efficiently manage water data from 16,500 
stream gauging, groundwater, water quality and precipitation sites. By leveraging the platform’s 
more than 58 billion historical data points and robust analytical capabilities, the USGS has 
increased data consistency, comparability and reliability to help agencies and scientists around the 
world reduce operating expenditures, protect infrastructure investments, and preserve the health 
of ecosystems and communities.
Addressing Pressing Public Health and Infrastructure Needs
The world’s supply of clean water is under substantial stress due to industrialization, increasing 
demand, and rising biological and chemical contamination. Trojan Technologies’ products and 
services play a vital role in improving the efficiency and sustainability of the water treatment 
process. Today, over 150,000 Trojan ultraviolet (UV) treatment systems are installed in industrial 
applications worldwide and over 11,000 systems are installed in municipalities. Collectively, these 
systems treat over 70 billion gallons of drinking water and wastewater every day. 
Orange County, California’s Groundwater Replenishment System uses Trojan technology to 
provide purified recycled water for aquifer recharge to replenish supplies and prevent seawater 
intrusion. It is the largest indirect potable reuse project of its kind in the world. Outfitted with 
microfiltration, reverse osmosis and TrojanUVPhox UV advanced oxidation systems, the Advanced 
Water Purification Facility treats up to 100 million gallons of water per day to a standard that 
surpasses what is required for drinking water.INNOVATION
Environmental & Applied Solutions
Swimrunners in the Stockholm Archipelago by Greg Beuneu, Cytiva associate
GRI: 102-2, 102-6, 201-1, 203-1, 203-2, 303-1
UN: SDG 3, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 142021 Danaher Sustainability Report18Driving Waste Reduction with Smart 
Packaging Solutions
Esko’s  Cape Pack package design and pallet optimization 
software is helping customers around the world advance 
their sustainability initiatives. Cape Pack helped one of the 
world’s largest producers of packaged meats, baked goods and 
prepared foods optimize their product packaging and reduce 
their environmental impact. In one application, changes made 
to truck pallet height facilitated a 14% increase in the number of 
products per truck, eliminating the need for 532,000 trucking 
miles—equivalent to two round trips to the moon—and 2.3 million 
pounds of CO2. In another application, Cape Pack facilitated the 
replacement of shipping cases with trays that held 30% more 
product per pallet, ultimately reducing the customer’s paper 
consumption by over 23 tons.
Tracking and Tracing for a Safer,  
More Secure World
Delpharm’s Saint-Rémy-sur-Avre facility—France’s first COVID-19 
vaccine manufacturing plant—is equipped with Laetus’s 
serialization and aggregation solutions to help ensure the 
authenticity of vaccine doses as they travel from the plant 
to each vaccination site. 
Videojet’s  broad portfolio of marking, coding and printing 
solutions print on over 10 billion products daily around the 
world, helping customers ensure product quality, integrity, and 
regulatory compliance. For example, the world’s leading providers 
of early-life nutrition use Videojet’s and Laetus’ technology to 
uniquely mark and track individual packages of baby formula, 
helping ensure authenticity and protection against counterfeits 
of this highly sensitive product.INNOVATION
Reducing SARS -CoV-2 Community  
Spread Via Water Monitoring
Hach  partnered with LuminUltra to develop a solution that rapidly, easily and 
non-invasively detects the SARS -CoV-2 virus in community wastewater nearly 
a week before physical symptoms generally emerge, allowing for early action. 
In 2020, Hach partnered with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and the 
Water Environment Federation to deploy this solution as an early warning 
signal in correctional facilities across the US, which are among the highest risk 
environments for outbreaks.
Reducing the Environmental Footprint  
of Industrial Water Use
With tighter regulations and increasing operating cost pressures, industrial 
wastewater operators are being asked to achieve more with fewer resources, 
while working towards aggressive sustainability goals. ChemTreat’s  water 
treatment programs help industrial customers conserve vast amounts 
of water and energy every day. A pharmaceutical customer recently 
implemented ChemTreat’s FlexPro green chemistry solution for cooling 
towers, resulting in a 90% reduction in phosphorous discharges (that can 
contribute to toxic algae blooms) and an 18% reduction in potable water 
consumption. Boeing has also used ChemTreat’s program to reduce its 
water usage, energy consumption and carbon footprint, earning ChemTreat 
recognition as Boeing’s 2019 Supplier of the Year in Sustainability. 
Hach’s  Real Time Control (RTC) solutions are complete, off-the-shelf systems 
that adjust municipal and industrial wastewater treatment processes in 
real time based on continuous measurement of key parameters—keeping 
facilities compliant while reducing treatment costs. Hach’s RTC solutions help 
customers achieve a combined annual energy reduction of approximately 134 
MWH, or 54,000 tons of CO².In honor of World Ocean Day, 
Pantone collaborated with cat 
food company SHEBA® to 
create SHEBA Hope. Grounded 
in a Pantone-developed blue-
green hue reminiscent of clean 
sea waters, the SHEBA Hope 
marketing campaign highlights 
the large-scale coral reef 
restoration efforts SHEBA has 
supported.  
 
 Lavazza, a coffee products 
company, collaborated with 
Pantone to launch “The 
Vanishing Color,” an initiative 
designed to raise awareness 
around the deforestation of the 
world’s rainforests and highlight 
the Lavazza Foundation’s 
environmental action. “The 
Vanishing Color” is inspired by 
the fragility and precariousness 
of vegetation in the Amazon 
rainforest and symbolizes the 
fight against deforestation.Sustainability-focused innovation takes different forms across the 
EAS segment. In our Product Identification platform, the Pantone  
Color Institute has helped customers around the world develop 
brand colors and custom color solutions in support of sustainability-
focused awareness campaigns.
GRI: 102-2, 102-6, 201-1, 203-1, 203-2, 303-1
UN: SDG 3, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14SHEBA® Hope
Color inspired by  
PANTONE®The Vanishing Color
by Lavazza
Color inspired by  
PANTONE®2021 Danaher Sustainability Report19Helping People Reach Their Potential
Our Team  
 
Personal Potential  
 
Professional Potential  Diversity + Inclusion  
 
In Our Communities 
 
Human Rights20 
 
21 
 
2327 
 
33 
 
36
PEOPLE
A Sunset Run Through Washington Park in Chicago, Illinois by Yvonne Chan, Cepheid associate2021 Danaher Sustainability Report20PEOPLE
Many companies talk about changing the world. At Danaher, 
we pursue it every day. Fueled by the ingenuity of our people 
and the power of DBS, we’re on a constant quest to make things 
better—for our customers, the world and ourselves. Our Shared 
Purpose, Helping Realize Life’s Potential , unites our associates 
across more than 20 operating companies and three reporting 
segments and inspires our work toward something bigger 
than ourselves.Our people are our strongest and most valuable resource, and building a team that is engaged, 
collaborative and supported from a career development, benefits and economic standpoint is 
critical. We strive to not only make our team more diverse, but to create an environment where 
associates can bring their authentic selves to work, have a strong sense of belonging, and realize 
their personal and professional potential to the fullest. With our focus on inclusion and belonging 
we are creating a richly diverse company where good ideas thrive and there are many pathways to 
success for all our associates.
Our people strategy addresses culture, recruitment, development, engagement, retention and 
diversity and inclusion with a particular focus on driving innovation, fueling growth and helping 
ensure our technologies and products effectively serve a global customer base. For more detail on 
our people strategy, please see pages 9-11 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending 
December 31, 2020.
With respect to the following topical areas highlighted in this People section (Personal Potential, 
Professional Potential, D+I and In Our Communities), Danaher’s Senior Vice President of Human 
Resources is the executive with management-level responsibility for these areas. She reports to 
the full Board on these topics at least annually.
Our Team
Associates
Languages Spoken
Countries
Average Years of Service69,000
20+
65
8
Realizing Your Potential  
Video Link: 
GRI: 102-7, 102-8, 102-20
SASB: RT-EE-000.B  UN: SDG 82021 Danaher Sustainability Report21Health, Wellness & Financial Stability
We have significantly enhanced the scope and range of Danaher’s health and wellness benefits 
in recent years to provide strong financial and wellbeing support for our associates. In 2020, 
we expanded our employee assistance program (EAP) to support our associates globally and 
augmented the EAP services offered to include 24/7 confidential counseling, legal and financial 
support, as well as comprehensive online resources on subjects such as health and wellness, family 
and relationships, work and education. 
The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic put our associates’ wellbeing even more at the center of 
our decision-making as we work to ensure they have the support and resources needed to 
manage through this challenging time. We extended our offerings to address the acute needs 
brought about by the pandemic, including: our partnership with EVERFI to help families support 
their children’s remote learning needs; our partnership with Bright Horizons Dependent Care 
in the UK, US, Ireland and Germany to support families with back-up child, adult, elder and pet 
care; and, in some countries, paid leaves of absence for associates taking care of children and 
elders, and childcare reimbursements and subsidizations. The results of our global 2020 Associate 
Engagement Survey validate the impact of these efforts: 88% of surveyed associates felt satisfied 
with Danaher’s efforts to care for associates during the pandemic, while 93% agreed that their 
leaders took actions to maintain a safe work environment.PEOPLE
Personal Potential
“I feel my health and well-being is a high priority to leadership and they care about me.”
“The initial response was decisive and left us with no doubt where we stood for 
travelling and meetings…that gave immediate peace of mind.”
ASSOCIATE TESTIMONIALS FROM DANAHER’S 2020 ENGAGEMENT SURVEY REGARDING OUR 
RESPONSE TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
Girl Scouts Hiking by Maria Watson, Pall associate
GRI: 102-7, 102-8, 203-2, 403-6
UN: SDG 3, 82021 Danaher Sustainability Report22Family-Friendly Benefits & Parental Leave
Danaher’s paid parental leave policy offers new parents in the U.S. and U.S. expatriates eight 
weeks of 100% paid leave within the first year of a child’s birth, adoption or foster care placement. 
In 2020, Danaher added Maven Clinic to its list of family-friendly benefits for associates in the 
U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Maven Clinic offers around-the-clock support for every step of 
parenthood, from fertility treatments and adoption to parental leave and return to work, breast 
milk shipping and mental health support.
Collective Bargaining
Of Danaher’s U.S. associates, approximately 300 were hourly-rated, unionized associates 
at the end of 2020. Outside the U.S., the Company has government-mandated collective 
bargaining arrangements and union contracts in certain countries, particularly in Europe where 
many associates are represented by unions and/or works councils. As set forth in Danaher’s 
Sustainability Policy , our businesses are required to respect each associate’s legal rights to make an 
informed decision, free of coercion, about membership in associations and/or labor unions, and are 
required to bargain in good faith with these associations and labor unions.
Danaher Scholarship Program
The Danaher Scholarship Program helps reduce the financial burden of higher education costs for 
Danaher families. In 2020, we helped fund the academic pursuits of 76 of our associates’ children 
at colleges and universities around the globe. The recipients were selected based on academic 
record, demonstrated leadership, participation in school and community activities, honors, work 
experience and a statement of goals and aspirations. Since its inception in 2009, the Danaher 
Scholarship Program has provided more than $3 million in scholarship awards to support the 
development, growth and potential of our next generation.Compensation and Pay Equity
We are committed to offering competitive compensation that accounts for geography, industry, 
experience and performance. Danaher and its operating companies’ compensation programs and 
practices are designed to attract associates, motivate and reward performance, drive growth and 
support retention. Compensation at Danaher typically includes base wages and some form of  
variable bonus or incentive opportunity. More than 85% of our associates participate in our bonus 
or incentive programs. In addition, certain associates receive long-term compensation in the form 
of Danaher equity awards.
We achieved pay equity for women and for racial and ethnic minorities in the U.S. in 2020. In the 
U.S., the weighted median base pay for women is 100% of the weighted median base pay of men 
within operating companies in the same job. Black, Asian and LatinX associates have a weighted 
median base pay that is at least 100% of the weighted median base pay of white associates within 
operating companies in the same job.
Executive Compensation
The goal of our executive compensation program is to build value for our shareholders. The 
program is designed to reward executive officers who build long-term shareholder value, achieve 
annual business goals and maintain long-term careers with Danaher. Our program’s emphasis on 
long-term equity awards, tied closely to shareholder returns and subject to significant vesting 
and holding periods, has been fundamental in attracting skilled executives, encouraging them 
to build long-term careers with Danaher, and motivating them to achieve sustainable operating 
and financial performance through a range of economic cycles. We provide our shareholders 
an opportunity to cast an annual advisory vote with respect to the compensation of our named 
executive officers, as disclosed in our annual proxy statement (the “say on pay proposal”). At 
Danaher’s annual meeting of shareholders in May 2021, more than 95% of the votes cast were in 
favor of the say on pay proposal.PEOPLE
GRI: 102-8, 102-35, 102-37, 203-2, 401-2, 401-3, 403-6, 405-2
UN: SDG 5, 82021 Danaher Sustainability Report23Learning & Development
With the spirit of continuous improvement at the core of how we lead and operate our businesses, 
the ability to shift, adapt and remain competitive as our business environment changes has always 
determined our success. From individual contributors to managers and senior leaders, we want to 
empower our associates to take control of their career growth and realize their full potential with 
meaningful training and development opportunities. Our typical approach to talent development 
includes a mix of on-the-job learning (70%), coaching (20%) and leadership and DBS training (10%), 
which we believe provides the most consistent and impactful development structure. Below we 
highlight some of the key elements of our learning and development program.
Learning Management System
In 2020, Danaher launched a global learning management system (LMS) to serve as the hub for our 
associates’ learning and development needs, providing ongoing digital and skills-based opportunities. 
The LMS consolidates our learning content in one place as part of our Workday platform, which 
creates efficiencies in managing learning, increases visibility through dynamic reporting, and 
provides a simplified learning experience for our associates. Our LMS offerings are comprised of 
over 400 courses including Danaher’s Annual Compliance Training, DBS courses and D+I Learning 
Certifications. In 2021, we expanded our digital offering for associates around the world by adding 
access to the entire LinkedIn Learning content library of more than 10,000 courses across the topics 
of Creative, Business and Technology.Professional PotentialPEOPLE
DBS Learning
Danaher Business System University (DBSU) helps associates develop the DBS competencies 
and capabilities needed to drive results at Danaher. From sites in the U.S., China, India and 
Germany, DBSU provides a wide variety of virtual and in-person learning opportunities. The DBSU 
curriculum and offerings include formal classroom-style training, peer best-practice sharing and 
engagement and action learning through kaizen events. Many of Danaher’s learning programs 
are facilitated by our own certified practitioners who undergo formal train-the-trainer programs 
before receiving certification. Danaher has more than 1,300 DBS-certified practitioners covering 
every major geographic region in which we operate.
DBS 1-Point Lessons
The DBS 1-Point Lesson Program  is a continuing series of virtual sessions  that provides a platform 
for leaders across Danaher to share best practices and learnings.  Each 1-Point Lesson is a webinar 
that focuses on a key DBS process or tool and includes a presentation and an interactive Q&A 
session. In addition to live 1-Point Lessons, we have an extensive library of recorded sessions 
available to all associates. Topics this year included Speed Design Review, Virtual Facilitation Tips, 
Building Ethical Leadership and Optimizing Product Life Cycle Management, among many others.
The Power of DBS: 
Favorite Moments  
Video Link: 
“LinkedIn Learning is a great and easy way to promote a culture 
of learning in our organization. The topics and courses are 
relevant to everything we do at work and cover soft skills and 
hard skills for an improved job performance.”
DAHLIA DARWISH, OPERATIONS INSTRUCTIONAL DESIGNER, CEPHEID
GRI: 404-2
SASB: HC-BP-330a.2  UN: SDG 82021 Danaher Sustainability Report24Diversity + Inclusion (D+I) Training
Our D+I learning library is continuously expanding and currently features 15 
unique D+I courses in 12 languages for all levels of associates on topics such 
as unconscious bias and creating leader accountability for diversity. In 2019, 
Danaher launched Growing Inclusive Teams, our global diversity and inclusion 
training that teaches associates how to identify and understand the impacts 
of D+I, and how to recognize and mitigate personal bias. Our D+I learning 
library is also an important resource to support our leaders’ progress toward 
their D+I development objectives (further discussed under “DBS and D+I”).
Leadership Development
We complement the learning tools described above with a robust leadership 
development curriculum designed to provide our current and future people 
leaders at all levels with the skills and knowledge to succeed at Danaher. Our 
pivot to virtual programming during the pandemic has helped expand the 
reach of several courses to people leaders across the globe, including:
• Coaching Essentials: A skills-based training course designed to help 
 people leaders accelerate development, improve performance and  
 bring out the best in their people.
• Crucial Conversations: A high-impact course designed to help foster 
 open dialogue around risky topics by identifying the principles and 
 skills needed to prepare for, conduct and follow up on a crucial    
 conversation.
• Situational Self Leadership: A course focused on empowering 
 associates to diagnose their readiness level on a specific goal/task, 
 and to ask for the matching leadership style.
• Speed of Trust: A course designed to help people leaders 
 understand the set of behaviors that build and sustain 
 trust, and the important roles that character and 
 competence play in creating trust.PEOPLE
Select examples of Danaher’s nomination-only Leadership 
Development programs include:
• Functional Leadership Development Program: 
 This “Learn-Do-Teach” experience helps top functional 
 leaders sharpen their DBS Fundamentals and increase 
 their leadership competencies.
• Maximizing Leadership Performance: A learning experience 
 designed to help mid-level leaders develop their personal 
 leadership brand, journey and approach. 
• Executive Champion Orientation and DBS Leadership 
 Orientation: Programs that immerse new leaders in the 
 DBS leadership culture through the introduction of DBS 
 Fundamentals and hands-on experience with DBS tools.
• General Management (GM) and HR Rotational 
 Development Programs: Global, multi-year,  
 Danaher-wide rotational development programs,  
 designed to accelerate participant readiness for senior 
 leader positions by providing experiential learning across 
 numerous facets of Danaher.Performance for Growth
Performance for Growth (P4G) is our annual performance 
management program. P4G guides associates and their 
managers in setting clear personal performance goals 
aligned to our strategic priorities and assessing associate 
performance against these goals. This required process 
encourages managers to provide ongoing, real-time 
performance feedback throughout the year, in addition to 
mandatory annual performance reviews, to ensure continued 
associate success and development. These annual reviews 
are structured around performance assessments against 
formal, annual objectives as well as our five Leadership 
Anchors.
In 2020, 97% of associates who 
participated in our P4G process 
received a performance review
Our P4G process encompasses all Danaher associates  
(with limited exceptions at certain operating companies 
typically due to regional differences and commercial 
bargaining agreements).
“Being in the GM Development Program 
has been a great experience that has 
connected me with inspiring people, 
facilitated insightful learnings, and given 
me opportunities to stretch and grow in 
exciting, new roles. The most impactful 
aspect for me has been learning from 
colleagues across Platforms and OpCos and being able to think 
through very different business situations that they are working on.”
GEN IZUTSU, DIRECTOR, INNOVATION AND MARKETING,  
USP TECHNOLOGIES
GRI: 102-8, 404-2, 404-3
SASB: HC-BP-330a.2  UN: SDG 82021 Danaher Sustainability Report25Danaher Go
New jobs are among the many opportunities created 
by Danaher’s growth. At any one time there may be 
more than 3,000 open jobs across Danaher. Danaher 
Go is our internal mobility program that supports 
our commitment to hiring and growing careers from 
within. Our internal policy reinforces this commitment 
by encouraging associates to pursue intra-Danaher 
career moves and ensuring they receive full support 
from their manager and senior leadership. To ensure 
our recruitment team has visibility to the career 
backgrounds and aspirations of our associates, we 
regularly encourage our associates to complete 
and update their Career Profile in our Workday HR 
information system.PEOPLE
The first Danaher Go Career Exploratory Day in Shanghai, China held in October 2020 
attracted more than 6,000 associates.
Associate Experience
Associate engagement is a foundational strategic priority for Danaher. It drives higher 
performance at every level of the organization and helps us develop the best people leaders 
and build the best workplace for our associates. We assess engagement through our annual 
Associate Engagement Survey and through our voluntary turnover rate.
We are proud to report that Danaher’s 2020 Engagement Survey results reflect our eighth 
consecutive year of improvement, with 93% of our associates participating. Compared to 
2019, our scores improved across all survey dimensions and our overall Engagement score 
improved seven percentage points, achieving the 75th percentile of our survey provider’s 
global benchmarking index, which includes many other Fortune 500 companies.
In 2021, we expanded our  associate listening program, Your Voice Matters , to incorporate 
feedback from prospective and new associates (i.e., interviewed applicants and new hires) 
and associates who are departing Danaher. The ability to measure moments that matter at 
more points in the associate lifecycle will equip our leaders with even more data and insights 
to continue building compelling associate experiences.
GRI: 102-8, 401-1, 404-2
SASB: HC-BP-330a.2  UN: SDG 82021 Danaher Sustainability Report26“Danaher is an organization made up of people 
from all kinds of backgrounds. We don’t all look 
or sound the same or have the same religious or 
political beliefs – and that’s okay. We can still 
connect with each other as humans, and that 
makes this a better place to work.”
DANIEL BENITEZ CAAMANO, GENERAL MANAGER, PALL WATER
We also have an early-career talent strategy that provides 
meaningful opportunities to support the next generation’s 
long-term career aspirations. We partner with universities and 
organizations across the globe on internships and leadership 
development programs in science, technology, engineering, 
arts and math (STEAM), operations, general management and 
human resources. Some of our Danaher internship partners 
include Penn State University, University of Florida, University 
of Virginia and Darden School of Business, Dartmouth and 
Tuck Business School, University of Illinois, University of 
California at Irvine, National Society of Black Engineers and 
Society of Woman Engineers, and many of our operating 
companies have their own work-study programs.An important component of our overall talent acquisition strategy is 
our diversity attraction efforts, which focus on: (1) establishing and 
fostering partnerships with diverse organizations, and (2) effectively 
sourcing diverse talent.  
 
Our diversity attraction efforts include partnerships with:
Our operating companies often partner with educational 
institutions and students to support their studies and 
cultivate their passion for STEAM disciplines. SCIEX 
partnered with Mass Spectrometry & Advances in the 
Clinical Lab (MSACL) to offer several scholarships for 
students to participate in the MSACL LC-MS/MS 101 
Short Course. Thanks to SCIEX’s support, over 50 students 
will be able to take part in the 2021 program.PEOPLE
Talent Recruitment
Attracting great, diverse talent into Danaher is a key strategic priority for all 
our businesses globally. We have invested in comprehensive talent acquisition 
capabilities across all levels of recruitment (including robust branding, labor 
market analytics, advanced sourcing, leading technology and streamlined 
processes). In-house and external partnerships, aligned to our businesses, 
help ensure we meet hiring demands across the Company. Our employer 
brand campaign, Wonder What’s Within , invites potential candidates to learn 
more about Danaher and its operating companies through real associate 
stories, sharing what it’s like to work within our organization and what it 
takes to succeed here. 
“I look forward to bringing my knowledge of 
LC-MS/MS to the rest of my scientific and 
research career.” 
ALMA AVILA OROPEZA, BIOCHEMISTRY STUDENT, 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN MARCOS
SCIEX/MSACL SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENT
GRI: 102-8, 401-1, 404-2
SASB: HC-BP-330a.2  UN: SDG 5, 82021 Danaher Sustainability Report27
A key element of Danaher’s strategy is to provide innovative 
solutions that solve our customers’ most complex challenges. We 
know that diverse and inclusive teams create real breakthroughs 
because they allow room for big ideas, encourage all voices to be 
heard equally and facilitate diverse perspectives. At Danaher, we 
seek to continuously improve and sustain a diverse and inclusive 
culture free of systemic bias, and to create a work environment 
in which all associates feel that they belong. This is reflected in 
our actions, our values and the language we use every day in 
interactions with our associates, customers, and communities 
around the world. 
D+I Strategy & Oversight
Danaher’s Office of Diversity + Inclusion is led by our Vice President 
of Global Diversity + Inclusion, who is responsible for the execution 
of Danaher’s D+I strategy and reports to Danaher’s Senior Vice 
President of Human Resources.
Both serve on the Danaher Diversity + Inclusion Council along with 
executives who lead our businesses. The D+I Council reports to our 
President and CEO and is responsible for: 
• Overseeing Danaher’s D+I strategic direction 
• Creating D+I accountability measures, including 
 performance and development objectives 
• Operationalizing D+I initiatives and programming 
 across all our operating companies 
 
In addition, Danaher’s President and CEO is a signatory to the CEO 
Action for Diversity + Inclusion pledge, setting a clear “tone at thePEOPLE
Diversity + Inclusion
2025 Goals
Global Women
People of Color in the U.S.40%
38%top” regarding D+I’s critical importance to Danaher. That message is 
carried through our internal communications and policies as well.
Diversity Goals and Metrics
Our D+I transformation began several years ago, and by 2020 
we had the organizational structure and rigor in place to establish 
2025 diversity representation goals. Last year, we set aspirational 
goals for gender representation globally and People of Color (POC) 
representation in the U.S. to hold ourselves accountable and to drive 
progress toward full representation at every level of our organization. 
We measure progress against these goals to help assess our overall 
D+I improvement. 
Based on our recent progress, particularly 
in 2021, we have increased our U.S. People of 
Color 2025 goal from 35% to 38%. 
The Red Sindoor by Piyali Das, Linx associate
GRI: 102-8, 102-12, 102-15, 102-20, 405-1  
SASB: TC-HW-330a.1  UN: SDG 5, 82021 Danaher Sustainability Report28PEOPLE
We also believe that what is measured is what moves, so in addition to 
tracking our progress against these goals, we track several other critical 
metrics that measure the effectiveness of our D+I program.
As additional information, we are making our most recently filed U.S. 
Federal Employer Information Report (Form EEO-1) Employment Data 
available for download below. While we are making the report available, 
we believe the data presented in this Report is the most meaningful 
measure of our diversity profile and performance. Read the report here.
Board of Directors Representation
Refer to the information provided in this Report’s Governance section and 
Data Summary. 
Global Women
 
Global Women 2020
 
Regional Women 2020 
U.S. People of Color
Note: Trend charts reflect data from continuing operations, except for 2018 data which includes Envista
GRI: 102-8, 102-15, 405-1
SASB: TC-HW-330a.1  UN: SDG 52021 Danaher Sustainability Report29PEOPLE
2020 U.S. Associates
Note: Totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding
GRI: 102-8, 102-15, 405-1
SASB: TC-HW-330a.1  UN: SDG 5Executives & Sr. Leaders Managers Individual Contributors
Total Associates
Esko Brands North America / Latin America Deployment Summit2021 Danaher Sustainability Report30D+I Competency
Day of Understanding
To help our associates better understand why diversity and inclusion 
are important drivers of our success, Danaher held its first global 
Day of Understanding (DoU) in 2020. All people leaders were 
required to host a conversation on gender and race relations with 
their teams. The DoU helped reinforce our expectation that our 
leaders drive personal and team accountability and move us from 
action to impact.  
In 2021, we broadened our DoU to encompass dimensions of 
diversity beyond race and gender, such as religious affiliations, tribal 
affiliations, disabilities, LGBTQ+ and socio-economic status, and to 
explore how many dimensions of diversity intersect.
DBS and D+I
We believe that D+I is everyone’s responsibility. In 2021, we 
required all people leaders to set D+I-related personal objectives 
and required the Danaher and operating company leadership 
teams to establish business objectives tied specifically to D+I 
improvements. We complemented these requirements by requiring 
all operating companies to implement a 2021 Policy Deployment 
Initiative to improve D+I. Policy Deployment is a DBS tool that 
we use to help ensure successful execution of important strategic 
initiatives. Applying Policy Deployment on a global basis to support 
the execution of our D+I strategy is pivotal, and signals to our 
organization that our commitment in this area requires the same 
rigor we have historically applied to our business strategies.To support this initiative, a cross-functional team created a 
DBS D+I Playbook and Resource Matrix to help operating 
company teams assess and address gaps in their D+I 
strategies. We’ve also deployed a variety of other DBS tools 
(such as Bowlers, Action Plans, Daily Management, Visual 
Management, Problem Solving Process and DBS 1-Point 
Lessons) to support our D+I strategy, in the same way we 
would address any other critical business objective. 
 
In 2020, we began using the DBS 1-Point Lessons platform to 
address societal events and issues that affect our associates 
and the communities where we live and work. Examples of 
D+I-related 1-Point Lessons hosted in 2020 included: 
 
• Race Relations in the Corporate World and its Impact on 
 Mental Health in the Black Community 
• How to be an Active Friend: Advocate Against Racism 
• Anti-Asian Behavior and the Myth of the Model Minority 
• The Importance of Being a +Friend & Ally to the LGBTQ 
 Equality Movemen tPEOPLE
Praying for the Better by Willy Tham, Beckman Coulter associate
GRI: 102-8, 102-15, 405-1
UN: SDG 52021 Danaher Sustainability Report31PEOPLE
Focus on Inclusion: Associate Resource Groups & Diverse 
Talent Mentoring
Enhanced inclusion creates a better work environment for our associates, and we 
expect everyone at Danaher to help maintain a culture that respects and appreciates 
individuality.
One way we foster an inclusive environment is through our Associate Resource Groups 
(ARGs). ARGs offer tailored education for our underrepresented associates, friends and 
allies; a safe and supportive space to connect with others; and mentoring and coaching 
programs that help underrepresented talent build connections with a broader group 
of Danaher leaders and outside professionals. Each of our ARGs includes the +Friends 
community, recognizing the importance of broader support for each underrepresented 
group. At Danaher, we define a Friend as “One who actively supports and defends the 
rights, interests and wellbeing of another person or group.”
Self-portrait by Aline Moniela, Pall associate
GRI: 102-8, 102-15, 405-1
SASB: TC-HW-330a.1  UN: SDG 5Danaher currently has seven ARGs:
• Black + Friends*  
• Asian Descent + Friends* 
• Latinx + Friends* 
• LGBTQ + Friends*• Women + Friends*  
• Women + Friends (Europe) — new in 2021  
• Women + Friends (China) — new in 2021
* These groups are currently open to all associates in the U.S. and Canada.
Support for our ARGs and their members is a priority for our President and CEO and other 
executive officers. To reinforce their commitment to ARG members’ career development 
and sense of security within Danaher, our executive officers sponsor the ARGs, prioritize 
opportunities to speak with our ARGs and participate in their events.2021 Danaher Sustainability Report32European D+I Task Force
Danaher’s European D+I Task Force reports directly to Danaher’s 
European Board and D+I Council and was established to accelerate 
diversity and inclusion progress in Europe. The Task Force initially 
focused on increasing the representation of women in managerial 
roles through enhanced development, mentorship, sponsorship 
and coaching. This work led to the establishment of the Women + 
Friends ARG in Europe. More recently, the Task Force has evolvedits priorities to include the following:
• Understand the voice of EU associates specific to 
 location, country and region 
• Identify and highlight additional D+I focus areas 
 beyond gender  
• Define what inclusion and belonging look like in Europe
Danaher China D+I Day
In 2021, our D+I Council hosted D+I China Day to recognize 
leaders who model inclusion. More than 2,000 associates 
participated in onsite events at over 35 locations across 
China. The event included fun and engaging events including 
a “D+I Idol” competition, D+I Fashion Show to showcase 
each participant’s unique personality, and a debate where 
General Managers from different sites and operating 
companies engaged in constructive debate on D+I topics. 
The day concluded with recognition of 25 associates who 
have been exemplary models of Danaher’s D+I values in 
China.PEOPLE
ARGs in Action
Our LGBTQ + Friends ARG sponsors the Reverse Mentoring Program, 
in which LGBTQ+ associates advise leaders in our organization on the 
struggles they face. This Reverse Mentoring Program has been tremendously 
successful, prompting several other ARGs to adopt similar programs. 
Immediately following the 2020 and 2021 incidents of racially motivated 
violence in the U.S., our Black + Friends and Asian Descent + Friends ARGs 
held coffee chats to support their members through those emotionally 
challenging times. 
Act Local
One strength of the ARGs is the flexibility local members have to organize 
events and activities that are meaningful to their particular community. The 
Pall Aerospace facility in New Port Richey, Florida started the Diversity 
Action Committee (DAC) in 2020, drawing members from each ARG as well 
as military veterans to use culture-specific events and dates to facilitate 
understanding and connection across the New Port Richey team. During 
Hispanic Heritage Month, for example, the DAC invited associates to share 
stories, reflections and recipes to help their colleagues better understand 
their culture and identity.
Recent Recognition
For the seventh year in a row, the 2020 Human Rights Campaign Corporate 
Equality Index named Danaher one of the Best Places to Work for LGBTQ+ 
Equality.Diversity + Inclusion Around the World
While Danaher is headquartered in the United States, we recognize 
that D+I means different things in each part of the world. We 
localize our D+I initiatives to ensure associates experience inclusion 
in ways that are relevant to their geography and culture. At the 
same time, we believe it is critically important to establish a singular 
terminology and unified foundation of behavioral expectations for 
all associates. In that spirit, we launched a global +Friends campaign 
in 2021. As part of this campaign, we shared our common definition 
of “Friend” and offered examples of actions our associates around 
the world can take daily to show up as a Friend in their workplace. 
GRI: 102-8  
UN: SDG 5, 8
2021 Danaher Sustainability Report33Danaher’s Community Impact Strategy
Our team’s passion for solving complex challenges reaches well beyond the lab, manufacturing facility 
or office, and into our local communities. And as a leading science and technology innovator, we have a 
unique opportunity to drive real change for some of society’s toughest problems.
Danaher’s community impact strategy relies on a targeted approach to community investment, and 
a preference for programs that share our commitment to diversity and inclusion. Together with our 
operating companies, we have prioritized the following areas for community investment: 
• Building a diverse and STEAM-ready workforce 
• Advancing healthcare innovation 
• Protecting the environment
Over the next three years, Danaher is committed to leveraging our time, talent, product and financial 
resources to deliver on a community impact strategy commensurate with our growth, abilities, the 
expectations of our stakeholders and, most importantly, our Shared Purpose. PEOPLE
In Our Communities
Global
• Volunteer and gift matching programs  
expand worldwide
• 1% Pretax Income (PTI) in grant funding
• Global in-kind strategy
• Skills-based volunteering
• Nonprofit board service program
• Volunteer Time Off (VTO) policyYear 3  
2023
U.S. and Canada
• Community Impact team and  
enterprise strategy
• Grant funding aligned with focus areas
• Associate volunteer program with 
Dollars for Doers
• Associate gift matching programYear 1  
2021
U.S. and Canada
• $15MM in grant funding
• Day of Service
• Team-based volunteer grantsYear 2 
2022
GRI: 203-1, 203-22021 Danaher Sustainability Report34PEOPLE
Our associates are the engine driving Danaher’s community engagement 
around the world. Diverse thought and experience offer limitless ideas 
for continuous improvement and how we focus our resources to build 
communities and people. We celebrate and fuel this passion in the  
following ways:
• Volunteerism  
 We offer an associate platform that enables the pursuit and  
 tracking of personal volunteerism. Team-based volunteerism will 
 be introduced in 2022 and all programs will be available globally 
 in 2023.  
• Dollars for Doers 
 Associates can translate the hours they volunteer into grants to 
 the nonprofits of their choice. For every 20 hours volunteered, 
 associates can earn a grant to direct to an eligible organization, 
 up to twice a calendar year.  
• Gift Matching  
 Danaher matches donations from associates to eligible 
 organizations up to $500 per calendar year. Gift matching 
 will be available globally in 2023.
 Note: these programs are currently available to full- and part-time  
 associates in the U.S. and Canada
You can read our complete community impact statement here.
Building the Next Generation of STEAM Leaders
Henry Ford’s Invention Convention  is the largest K-12 grade 
invention education program in the U.S., with an annual competition that 
features more than 100,000 student inventions from across the country. 
In 2021, several Danaher scientists and engineers served as judges, investing 
over 130 hours of scientific expertise reviewing student submissions. Danaher is the presenting sponsor of the Innovation in Medical 
Technology Award, which recognizes a notable student who 
successfully addresses a health and medical technology problem 
that could one day save lives. The 2021 winner and scholarship 
recipient was a sixth-grade student inventor who invented the 
BioPad—a non-invasive, inexpensive, and easy to self-administer 
COVID-19 test that only requires a person’s breath. Check out the 
invention here .
Breaking the School-to-Incarceration Pipeline
Creating opportunities for lawyers to transform their passion for 
justice into a lifelong commitment to public service is the mission of 
Equal Justice Works . Danaher currently funds a two-year fellowship 
focused on legal services and legislative advocacy to help ensure 
that education for girls of color is free of discriminatory discipline, 
harassment and violence.  
According to U.S. Department of Education 2018 data, 
Black girls make up 17% of the national student population, 
but account for 39% of girls arrested at school, which often pushes 
them into the criminal justice system. The Danaher-supported fellow 
is dedicated to building educational equity and keeping schools safe 
so girls of color can complete their education and achieve their 
full potential. Adream Centers Expand Reach in China
In October 2020, in partnership with the Adream Foundation , Danaher 
and its China operating companies announced the site of their fourth 
Adream Center: Poyang Town Central School in Jiangxi Poyang. Danaher 
is providing for construction support, funding for operations and teachers, 
and an extensive library. Each of the centers Danaher has supported—in 
Guizhou Province, Chongqing, Shaanxi Province and now Jiangxi Poyang—
is designed to bring quality curriculum and educational experiences to 
children in remote parts of China. Together, these Danaher-funded Adream 
centers have positively impacted over 4,800 students and 340 teachers and 
provide numerous community engagement opportunities for our associates 
and their families. 
“I get excited about the Invention Convention event each year 
because I’m inspired by the enthusiasm and creativity of the 
students,” says Kenyatta Lucas, Ph.D. and Consumables 
Modality Sales Specialist at Cytiva. “It reminds me of why I 
got my Ph.D. and of being a little girl wondering how the brain 
works. I love having a front row seat to see the next generation 
of innovators that will change the world.”
GRI: 102-12, 203-1, 203-2
UN: SDG 52021 Danaher Sustainability Report35
COVID-19: Responding to India’s Second Wave
As much of our world began to emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic, 
a devastating second wave of infections raced across India. Our teams 
activated relationships with key health and humanitarian organizations 
focused on delivering critical services throughout the country, including 
Americares , which distributed personal protective equipment to healthcare 
and frontline workers, and the SOS Children’s Villages , which provided food 
and hygiene kits to families.
Danaher also contributed $1 million to UNICEF,  giveIndia  and 
SEWA International , which facilitated the installation of oxygen generation 
plants across 25 states and union territories and funded 85 RT-PCR test 
instruments in 75 laboratories. Danaher also matched associate donations 
to these organizations, raising another combined $400,000. Additionally, 
the Danaher Associate Relief Fund, funded by Danaher and our associates, 
was expanded to provide urgent support to our India-based associates 
facing a financial hardship as a result of COVID. PEOPLE
In Support of Safe Drinking Water
Since 2006, Hach has partnered with Water Mission  to implement 
accessible, sustainable and safe water solutions in communities worldwide. 
This year marked Hach’s 8th annual “Walk for Water” event where 
participants walked 3.1 miles (5 kilometers), reflecting the distance that 
millions of people—primarily women and children—cover daily to collect 
water that’s frequently unsanitary and unsafe for consumption. More 
than 1,000 Hach associates participated and raised funds to help improve 
access to safe and clean drinking water in six developing regions. Hach has 
contributed more than $1.5 million in cash and in-kind contributions to 
Water Mission since 2006.In April 2021, La Soufrière volcano on the Caribbean Island of St. 
Vincent erupted, leaving destruction in its path, displacing 15,000 
residents and damaging urban and rural water supplies. In partnership 
with Water Mission, Hach donated instrumentation and setups for lab 
and field water testing, reagents for 300 water quality samples and 
virtual training sessions with the local community. In past years, Hach 
has provided in-kind support following natural disasters in Haiti, Chile, 
Puerto Rico, Grand Bahamas, Honduras, Nicaragua and the United 
States. 
GRI: 102-12, 203-1, 203-2
UN: SDG 3, 62021 Danaher Sustainability Report36Our commitment to human rights stems from our Shared Purpose, our Core 
Value “The Best Team Wins” and our Sustainability Mission Statement, which 
states our commitment to considering the long-term interests of Danaher 
associates, our customers and business partners, and the people who live in 
our communities. We believe respect for human rights must be a cornerstone 
for a sustainable business.
Danaher’s commitment to respecting human rights in our own operations 
and complying with the laws of the countries in which we do business is 
articulated in our Sustainability Policy . This commitment to upholding the 
dignity of every person and respecting and protecting human rights applies 
to all Danaher locations and businesses worldwide. We believe we have an 
opportunity and obligation to positively impact the protection of human 
rights within our sphere of influence and expect our suppliers to act in 
accordance with internationally recognized human rights standards. Our 
commitment is guided by the principles set forth in U.S. laws governing 
human rights, as well as in the following international standards: 
 
• Universal Declaration of Human Rights
• International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
• International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
• International Labor Organization’s (ILO’s) Declaration on Fundamental   
 Principles and Rights at Work 
 
Danaher is also a signatory of the UN Global Compact , which includes a 
commitment to fundamental principles of human rights.Communities:  As an employer and a corporate citizen, 
we are aware of our role in the communities in which 
we operate. We respect the rights of local communities 
and those who live and work there consistent with 
international human rights standards. We strive to monitor 
and address the local and global environmental impacts 
of our business operations, and to create positive impacts 
on adjacent communities through local engagement and 
charitable programs. Please refer to this Report’s section 
“In Our Communities” for more information regarding our 
community impact initiatives.We recognize that human rights due diligence is a continuous 
process. We seek to use policies, training, processes and monitoring 
systems that advance this commitment in our:
Operations:  We expect each Danaher associate to act lawfully 
toward other associates, colleagues, business partners and those in 
local communities. We do not tolerate the abuse of human rights in 
our operations. Each year, all associates in administrative, business, 
technical, professional, management and executive career categories 
are required to certify their understanding of the Code of Conduct  
and all its requirements (including the Code requirements relating to 
human rights). In addition, associates in our procurement function 
participate in annual human rights training.
Supply Chain: We expect our suppliers to share our commitment 
to respect human rights. All suppliers are expected to comply with 
our Supplier Code of Conduct , which sets forth our expectations 
around supplier business practices (including human rights). We 
are committed to implementing and improving upon due diligence 
processes to assess risks relating to human rights. Please see the 
Danaher Sustainable Supply Chain Policy  for additional details.  PEOPLE
Human Rights
In 2021, Danaher became a signatory of the UN Global Compact  
(UNGC) to demonstrate our commitment to the 10 principles of the 
UNGC on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption.
Girl Farming in Sapa, Vietnam by Jay Nguyen, Cepheid associate
GRI: 102-12, 102-13, 403-6, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1
UN: SDG 3, 5, 82021 Danaher Sustainability Report37PEOPLE
Standing Up for Human Rights at Danaher  
 
“While governments play a lead role in ensuring 
human rights for their citizens, we believe 
corporations also have an important duty to 
operationalize human rights in daily interactions with 
associates, customers and business partners. Which 
is why we strive to be a responsible corporate citizen 
and to contribute positively to human rights impacts 
in the way we run our company… Also, part of 
being a  good corporate citizen is contributing to the 
communities where we live and work. To that end, 
you have seen Danaher accelerate our global D+I 
efforts and take a more visible position on matters 
of social justice, which we view as congruent to our 
position on human rights.”
RAINER M. BLAIR, PRESIDENT & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Our commitment to human rights also spans a range of topical areas:
• Fair Labor Practices:  All Danaher employment practices are required 
to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those 
concerning hours, compensation, opportunity and working conditions. 
Our businesses are required to respect each associate’s legal rights 
to make an informed decision, free of coercion, about membership in 
associations and/or labor unions. Our businesses are required to bargain 
in good faith with these associations and labor unions. 
• Child Labor:  Danaher’s policy is to support and comply with child labor 
laws across our operations and supply chain. Our approach is consistent 
with the ILO labor standards outlined in ILO Conventions No. 138  
and 182. 
• Forced Labor and Human Trafficking:  We do not accept or condone any 
aspect of forced or compulsory labor. We strictly prohibit our associates 
and suppliers from engaging in human trafficking-related activities. 
• Safe and Healthy Work Environment: It is Danaher policy that all 
associates work in a clean and safe environment. In the interest of 
maintaining a safe and healthy workplace, we require full compliance 
with applicable workplace safety and industrial hygiene standards as 
mandated by law.
• Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment: Danaher is committed to 
equal employment opportunity and equity, and it is our policy that we 
base employment decisions on merit, considering qualifications, skills 
and achievements. Regardless of geographic location, all employment-
related decisions must be based on job-related qualifications, without 
regard to legally protected characteristics such as race, color, national 
origin, religion, sex, gender, age, marital status, disability, veteran status, 
citizenship status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression 
or any other characteristic protected by law. We do not tolerate 
unlawful discrimination or harassment, and our Code of Conduct  further 
expands upon these expectations.• Privacy:  We are committed to protecting the privacy of those who 
entrust us with their personal information, including our customers, 
website visitors, associates, clinical research participants and all those 
who do business with us. We are committed to explaining how personal 
information can be corrected, updated or deleted, and are committed to 
taking steps to keep personal information secure. 
• Access to Healthcare; Product Quality; Pricing: Access to healthcare, 
including access to innovative medical devices and other technologies, 
is a critically important focus for the global health community and 
our Company. At Danaher, we believe one of the most significant 
opportunities we have is to improve access to healthcare. We believe 
our critical contribution lies in continuing to invest in products and 
solutions that support the discovery and development of lifesaving 
treatments to address the world’s most intractable health challenges. In 
addition, Danaher in certain circumstances employs innovative, targeted 
approaches to address the needs of developing countries, including 
collaborative partnerships with global organizations; please refer to this 
Report’s Diagnostics Innovation section for examples of how we advance 
access to healthcare. We also recognize our responsibilities to ensure 
the quality and safety of our products from the discovery phase to post-
commercialization, and to price our products and solutions responsibly to 
ensure that they reflect their value.
We are committed to providing effective resolution to the extent we have 
caused or contributed to adverse human rights impacts. The Danaher Speak 
Up! helpline, together with the other reporting channels identified in our Code 
of Conduct, are the grievance mechanisms available to associates, business 
partners and other persons.
Danaher’s Vice President of Global Procurement and Supply Chain, who 
reports to Danaher’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, is 
responsible for our supply chain human rights program, and Danaher’s Senior 
Vice President of Human Resources is responsible for human rights in our 
direct operations.
GRI: 102-12, 102-13, 102-20, 403-6, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1
UN: SDG 3, 5, 82021 Danaher Sustainability Report38Helping Protect the Environment
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) DBS EHS Management Tools 
 39 41
ENVIRONMENT
View Over the Matterhorn by Richard Bossart, Cytiva associate2021 Danaher Sustainability Report39ENVIRONMENT
Our stewardship of the environment and precious natural 
resources for future generations are core to our sustainability 
strategy. Our planet is facing unprecedented environmental 
challenges, and we know that human health is inextricably 
linked to the health of the planet. 
To this end, we are committed to leveraging DBS to reduce the environmental footprint of our 
operations and our products. It is also imperative that we pursue opportunities for environmental 
improvements across our value chain. By partnering with our suppliers and customers, we are 
addressing some of the world’s most pressing environmental issues more broadly and effectively 
than we could on our own. Together, we are Helping Realize Life’s Potential .
Protecting the safety, health and well-being of our teams is a top priority in all of our pursuits. 
One of our Core Values is “The Best Team Wins,” and we believe we are The Best Team when our 
associates feel good about coming to work, are empowered to raise safety concerns, and leave safe 
and healthy at the end of every shift. We are proud that workplace safety consistently receives high 
scores in our annual Associate Engagement Survey, and our 2020 Safety and Health score ranked 
in the top quartile of our survey administrator’s benchmark of global clients for the 8th consecutive 
year—since our survey’s inception.
To achieve our EHS goals, we have established policies that communicate clear expectations, track 
key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure our performance, and set goals to drive accountability 
for continuous improvement. With DBS as our driving force, we’ve also developed DBS tools 
designed specifically to reduce energy consumption and waste generation.
Danaher’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel is the executive with management-level 
responsibility for our EHS program.Policies
We articulate our EHS expectations through the following policies:
• Code of Conduct: The Code identifies the core principles that guide our organization, 
 including our core EHS principles.
• Environment, Health and Safety Policy (EHS Policy):  Specifically addresses compliance 
 with applicable EHS laws, personal accountability, continuous improvement in EHS    
 performance, integration of EHS principles into our business plans, product design and    
 facilities, recycling and reuse, EHS due diligence  of newly acquired businesses and public   
 reporting of our program effectiveness.
• Sustainability Policy:  Builds upon the EHS Policy and addresses the EHS elements most 
 critical to our approach to sustainability.
• Supplier Code of Conduct and  Sustainable Supply Chain Policy: Outline our expectations 
 regarding the extension of our EHS values throughout our supply chain, including the 
 assessment and monitoring of our suppliers’ environmental performance through the 
 EcoVadis platform.
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS)
GRI: 102-16, 403-1, 403-2, 403-9
UN: SDG 3, 12, 132021 Danaher Sustainability Report40KPIs and Goals
To drive accountability and continuous improvement, we have established goals designed to achieve 
meaningful improvement in our EHS performance and reduce our impact on the environment.  
Specifically, over the five-year period from 2020-2024, Danaher has committed to:
• Reducing energy consumed (on a normalized basis) by 15% 
• Reducing Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (on a normalized basis) by 15% 
• Reducing percentage of non-hazardous/non-regulated waste sent to landfills or incineration by 15%
We also track a range of other EHS-related KPIs to measure the effectiveness of our program:Occupational Injury and Illness KPIs
Danaher’s 2020 total recordable incident rate (TRIR) was its lowest in ten years and reflects a 
reduction of 21% since 2019. Our 2020 days away restricted or transferred (DART) case rate has 
decreased 28% since 2019. Application of our 4E Hazard Control toolkit helps to eliminate and control 
workplace hazards, which in turn reduces injuries and positively impacts our TRIR and DART rates.ENVIRONMENT
In 2020, Pall’s facility in Bad Kreuznach, Germany purchased 8,919 MT 
CO2e allowances as part of the EU Emissions Trading System, and Pall 
also purchased 285 MT CO2e offsets to commemorate Earth Day.
Global Safety Performance - All Active Sites
Note: 2019 data includes Envista Holdings Corporation.
GRI: 102-15, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 303-1, 303-5, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5, 403-1, 403-2, 403-9
SASB: RT-EE-130a.1, RT-EE-150a.1, RT-IG-320a.1  TCFD: Metrics and Targets  UN: SDG 3, 12, 132021 Danaher Sustainability Report41DBS EHS Management Tools  
 
We’ve combined some of our most effective DBS tools with industry best-practices to create a 
suite of EHS tools and programs that manage ergonomics, energetics, exposure, environmental 
compliance, energy reduction and waste reduction.
DBS 4E Hazard Control Toolkit
This DBS-based set of tools enables our associates to identify, assess and control hazards 
related to the four “E’s”: Ergonomics, Energetics, Exposures and Environment. Over the past 
5 years, we have built, expanded and refined our 4E portfolio of management tools. These tools 
are supported by a specially trained group of associates referred to as Certified Practitioners and 
Advanced Certified Practitioners.DBS Energy Management Toolkit 
The DBS Energy Management Toolkit, introduced in 2019, guides facility-level teams in identifying, 
prioritizing and implementing measures that improve energy efficiency and reduce GHG emissions. 
Our teams use the toolkit to establish a thorough understanding of energy consumption and identify 
areas for improvement in the form of an Opportunity Assessment. Next, the teams develop energy 
management action plans based on the following framework (and implement them using a variety of 
DBS tools):
• Envision:  Collect and analyze data relating to electricity and natural gas usage, air line leaks,  
 insulation and types of fuel used. Establish long-term and short-term reduction goals. 
 Establish clear roles and responsibilities. 
• Investigate: Go to gemba—the physical location where work gets done—to identify and map all 
 systems, processes and pieces of equipment that use electricity, natural gas, other forms of fuel 
 or air, or contain insulation. Use the guidelines and checklists in the Energy Management Toolkit 
 to identify and prioritize opportunities for improvement and develop an action plan.  
• Implement:  Systematically execute the action plan. Measure the impact and track results.  
• Sustain:  Monitor performance at regular intervals, keep stakeholders engaged and add new  
 opportunities for impact to the action plan. ENVIRONMENT
2021 Danaher Sustainability Report42ENVIRONMENT
Waste Minimization Toolkit 
Our facility-level teams use the DBS Waste Minimization Toolkit, introduced in 2020, to evaluate 
current-state waste generation and disposal practices, identify opportunities for improvement and 
implement comprehensive waste minimization strategies. The toolkit follows the waste management 
hierarchy of controls: avoid, reduce, reuse, recycle, recover energy, treat and dispose. The teams 
develop and implement waste management action plans based on this framework.
 
Our Pall facility in New Port Richey, Florida used the DBS Waste Minimization Toolkit and tracked 
the following year-over-year improvements during the first year following implementation:
• 45% reduction in total waste 
• 61% absolute reduction in regulated waste disposed 
• 75% reduction in regulated waste recycled 
• 83% increase in recycling rebates
• 87% reduction in waste spend 
• 44% reduction in waste generated per USD revenue 
Bluebird in Brea, California by Marci Raudez, Beckman Coulter associate
GRI: 102-16
TCFD: Metrics and Targets  UN: SDG 12, 132021 Danaher Sustainability Report43Other EHS Management Tools
A number of our sites adhere to globally recognized EHS management 
systems, including ISO 14001 (environmental), ISO 45001 (health and safety) 
and ISO 50001 (energy management):  
Note: total number of manufacturing and assembly sites globally was 177 as of the end of 2020.
Training and Education 
We offer EHS training and education at both the corporate and operating 
company levels, to raise understanding of EHS compliance obligations, and 
actively promote an EHS culture of accountability and engagement.  
EHS Risk Assessment Tool
We revised our EHS risk assessment process in 2021 to place greater 
emphasis on the strategy and cultural aspects of EHS.  Now called the EHS 
Maturity Assessment Tool (MAT), this tool scores a site against five major 
elements (strategy, risk management & compliance, DBS, organization and 
culture) and eleven sub-elements. Sites move through beginner, foundational, 
mature and advanced process maturity phases as they develop, implement 
and sustain key MAT requirements. The MAT requires senior leaders andEHS personnel of in-scope sites to set annual goals and three-year 
improvement targets. Leadership at both the Danaher and operating 
company levels reviews progress against these goals and targets 
multiple times each year. 
Each year, we recognize the global “Best” and regional “Most 
Improved” EHS programs within our organization. Sites are evaluated 
based on several categories, including: 
• EHS Maturity Assessment Tool (MAT) score
• TRIR/DART 
• Regulatory Notices of Violation/fines
• On-time closure of audit findings
• DBS tool deployment
• Environmental sustainability performance
• Property risk protection
In 2020, the “EHS Best Plant” designation was awarded to our Hach 
facility in Ames, Iowa. Pall was awarded “Most Improved” for its 
facilities in New Port Richey, Florida, Newquay, U.K. and Beijing, China.
Business Interruption Analysis and Business  
Continuity Planning
We also maintain Business Interruption Analysis (BIA) and Business 
Continuity Plan (BCP) tools and templates that our operating 
companies use to mitigate risks relating to business interruption. Our 
BIA tools guide: an assessment of interdependencies between the 
manufacturing and distribution facilities within a particular operating 
company; an analysis of the financial, product delivery and other 
impacts of the loss of a given facility for a maximum foreseeable period of time; and development of strategies to minimize the 
impact of such loss on our ability to provide products to 
our customers. Our operating companies use BCP tools 
to implement their strategies for minimizing impact to our 
facilities, associates and customers. In addition, we have 
standard work that requires incorporation of engineering 
best practices in our facility design, construction and 
modification processes to protect our facilities against fire, 
flood, wind and earthquake. 
Creating resilience through our partnership with our 
property insurer, FM Global, is another dimension of our risk 
mitigation and business continuity strategy. Routine physical 
inspections of our global real estate assets help to identify 
and mitigate risks associated with weather-related climate 
impacts. FM Global’s specialized engineering services are 
also utilized for design reviews related to capacity expansions 
and other site improvements to help ensure best-in-class 
design features are being considered.
The COVID-19 pandemic has presented us with additional, 
unique safety and health challenges. Our emphasis in prior 
years on improving our crisis management and business 
continuity planning capabilities positioned us to promptly 
address the safety and health of our associates through 
the development and implementation of a global pandemic 
response plan. 
 ENVIRONMENT
GRI: 102-15, 102-16, 403-1, 403-2, 403-9
SASB: TC-HW-000.B  TCFD: Metrics and Targets  UN: SDG 32021 Danaher Sustainability Report44EHS Audit Program 
To supplement our operating company-led audits, we 
are developing and piloting internal audit tools focused 
on warehousing and machinery-related lockout/tagout  
risks, which can pose serious injury and fatality potential 
and exposure.
Third parties are used to support acquisition-related due 
diligence and baseline audits as well as provide added subject 
matter expertise and internal audit capabilities as needed for 
our operating companies’ audit processes.  
EHS Information Management System
We use a third party, global EHS information management 
system to collect and manage EHS information, including:
• EHS incident, severity, investigation and corrective 
 action tracking 
• EHS performance metric reporting and tracking 
• Sustainability-related metric reporting and tracking 
• A compliance calendar for managing compliance and  
 other recurring tasks 
• Tracking the remediation of incident, audit and 
 inspection findings ENVIRONMENT
The Sky’s the Limit - Women Empowerment by John Szumila, Beckman Coulter associate
GRI: 403-1, 403-2, 403-9
UN: SDG 32021 Danaher Sustainability Report45Foundational Elements
Ethics and Compliance at Danaher 
 
Ethical Workplace 
 
Medical Device Product Quality
Supply Chain Sustainability  Governance  
 
Risk Oversight
Political Matters46 
 
48 
 
52 
 
55 57 
 
61 
 
64
FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
St. Ives, Cornwall U.K. by Louise Davies, Cepheid associate2021 Danaher Sustainability Report46FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Danaher’s culture is rooted in a strong foundation of integrity and 
sound governance, and our sustainability program reflects this 
commitment. Our operating companies have developed trust with 
their associates, customers and local communities over decades. 
And at Danaher, we have always recognized the importance of 
reputation to our success, which is why we are committed to 
maintaining the highest ethical standards and complying with all 
applicable laws, wherever we do business.
Danaher’s integrity, reputation and successful execution of our ethics and compliance program priorities 
are key to our growth strategy. Studies have shown that organizations with strong reputations and 
compliance cultures attract better talent, are generally perceived by stakeholders as providing more 
value and have higher customer loyalty. An ethical workplace also helps build the trust necessary for our 
associates to innovate, engage at a high level and feel comfortable bringing forward any concerns.
Danaher is committed to doing business with integrity at every level of our organization. Our corporate 
ethics and compliance function is responsible for Danaher’s Code of Conduct and related policies and 
programs that govern how we interact with customers, colleagues, business partners, regulators and 
communities, and how we market our products and services. All Danaher operating companies are 
required to implement and comply with these policies and programs.
The Danaher Corporate Ethics and Compliance Function
A central, robust corporate ethics and compliance function reinforces our commitment to integrity. 
Danaher’s ethics and compliance program is led by our Vice President, Chief Ethics and Compliance 
Officer (CECO), who reports directly to Danaher’s Senior Vice President-General Counsel. The CECO is 
responsible for developing, implementing, and maintaining Danaher’s ethics and compliance program.  
Our centralized ethics and compliance function is supported by compliance leaders and teams 
embedded within Danaher’s businesses. The leadership of each of Danaher’s business platforms 
and of Danaher’s geographic regions conduct regular compliance reviews with their respective 
senior management teams to stay informed and track progress on key compliance priorities and KPIs. 
 
The responsibilities of our centralized, corporate ethics and compliance function include:
 
• Developing and communicating policies that convey Danaher’s expectations and requirements 
 relating to ethics and compliance
• Supporting platform and operating company compliance teams and leaders
• Developing and overseeing implementation of programs and campaigns that increase 
 associates’ ethical awareness 
• Reporting quarterly to Danaher’s Audit Committee and at least annually to Danaher’s Board 
 of Directors on Danaher’s ethics and compliance program 
• Developing and implementing ethics and compliance training
• Leveraging DBS tools to support Danaher’s ethics and compliance program 
• Leveraging data analytics to identify and mitigate key ethics and compliance risks
• Collaborating with Danaher’s internal audit function to manage our anti-corruption risk 
 assessment and risk mitigation program
• Managing our confidential reporting helpline, Speak Up!
• Leading investigations into alleged misconduct
In 2018, we engaged an outside advisor to assess our ethics and compliance program and advise 
on industry trends and best practices. Compliance team members from across the Company have 
worked collaboratively to design and implement programmatic improvements based on the results 
of the review.Ethics and Compliance at Danaher
GRI: 102-16, 102-20
SASB: RT-EE-510a.12021 Danaher Sustainability Report47The Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher’s Code of Conduct  guides our everyday actions and interactions 
with internal and external stakeholders and is available in 19 languages. 
The Code requires all Danaher directors and associates to comply with all 
applicable laws, rules and regulations, provides specific guidance with respect 
to particular areas of ethics and compliance, and also counsels our associates 
on how to deal with common compliance-related scenarios. The Code 
encourages our directors and associates to ask questions when unsure about 
any ethics or compliance issue and requires them to report actual or potential 
violations of law, our Code of Conduct or other Danaher policy. Finally, 
the Code of Conduct makes clear that Danaher will not tolerate retaliation 
against anyone who reports a problem in good faith, nor will we tolerate 
retaliation against anyone who participates in an investigation. 
Reporting Concerns
Per our Code of Conduct, ethics and compliance questions, suspected 
violations of law or policy or retaliation concerns can be raised through 
numerous channels, including managers, HR, legal or compliance department 
representatives, Danaher’s Board of Directors or the Speak Up! Helpline. 
The Speak Up! call center and website are independent from Danaher and 
staffed by third-party ethics and compliance specialists. Speak Up! is a 
confidential way for associates to ask questions, seek guidance and report 
possible violations of law or policy. In addition, we encourage our business 
partners and other third parties who interact with us to report compliance 
concerns through Speak Up! We publicize Speak Up! through an annual 
internal communications campaign, and information about Speak Up! is 
prominently available in our Code of Conduct, in our offices and facilities, and 
on our intranet and public website.
Our associates and business partners may use Speak Up! 24 hours a day, 7 
days a week. When a concern is reported by phone, the operator will listen, 
ask questions if necessary and then write a summary report. Phone numbersare available for over 120 countries. Associates can also file complaints 
or submit inquiries electronically through www.danaherintegrity.com , 
which is available in 17 languages. Reporters can choose to submit their 
concerns to Speak Up! anonymously, where allowed by local law. 
All complaints and inquiries submitted through Speak Up!, whether 
by phone or electronically, are provided to Danaher for assessment 
and further action.
Danaher’s corporate ethics and compliance function tracks and 
oversees all reported concerns from investigation to resolution. 
In 2020, we received and investigated over 850 reports. Where 
appropriate we took disciplinary action, including coaching, changes 
in job responsibilities or title, discussion in performance reviews, 
adverse impact on paid incentive compensation and/or termination of 
employment. Associate trust in the Speak Up! program is fundamental 
to our compliance program. We track two key metrics to measure the 
level of trust that our associates have in the program:
• Each year (including 2021), we target at least one Speak Up! report 
 for every 100 Danaher associates as an indication that associates 
 feel comfortable raising their concerns. We evaluate this metric 
 overall and by specific associate groups.  
• When associates use the Speak Up! Helpline, we view their 
 willingness to self-identify as an indicator of trust and confidence 
 in the program. We believe that having more than 40% of Speak 
 Up! reporters self-identify in any given year is an indicator of the   
 health of our program (this is an annual goal, including for 2021). 
To the extent we identify a sustained and significant deviation from 
either of these indicators, either at the Danaher level or in specific 
associate groups, we use DBS tools (particularly the Problem Solving 
Process) as appropriate to develop and implement countermeasures.Corporate Internal Audit Support
Danaher has a robust corporate internal audit function 
tasked with validating that proper accounting and 
accounting-related controls exist throughout Danaher. 
The corporate internal audit function regularly conducts 
extensive internal audits to help ensure that Danaher’s 
externally reported financial statements are properly 
prepared according to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles and to validate the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal controls over financial reporting.
Our internal audit team also coordinates with Danaher’s 
corporate ethics and compliance function to quantitatively 
rank our business locations from a risk perspective and 
develop risk mitigation plans based on such data. FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
GRI: 102-16, 102-17, 102-33, 205-1, 205-2
SASB: RT-EE-510a.12021 Danaher Sustainability Report48Well-established, Danaher-wide policies and programs (including the Code of 
Conduct) reinforce our culture of integrity within the workplace. These include 
the ethics and compliance systems described in this Report and, in some cases, 
the use of data analytics to identify and mitigate risks. We look to industry 
best practices and benchmarks to track our performance against our peers.
Measuring Associates’ Ethics  
and Compliance Performance
Every Danaher associate is personally accountable for following our ethics and 
compliance policies. The Integrity Anchor, Models Humility, Transparency and 
Integrity , is one of five Leadership Anchors that guide the annual performance 
reviews that are part of our P4G Program. Central to this Leadership Anchor is 
maintaining Danaher’s core ethics and values, conducting oneself with humility 
and cultivating a culture of candor. Associates self-assess and managers 
numerically score associate performance with respect to this element  
annually. The Integrity Anchor score an associate receives directly impacts 
their compensation. 
Assessing Associate Trust in the Ethics  
and Compliance Culture
Every year, we ask Danaher associates to rate our ethics and compliance 
culture as part of our Engagement Survey. Leaders across our platforms and 
operating companies leverage those results to develop action plans and drive 
improvement, as necessary. Our goal is to achieve, by 2024, a score on this 
Engagement Survey dimension that is five percentage points above the global 
average of companies benchmarked by our survey provider. In 2020, Danaher’s 
score was one percentage point above the survey provider’s global average.Empowering Associates Through Ethics 
and Compliance Training
Each year, all associates in administrative, business, technical, 
professional, management and executive career categories are 
required to take Code of Conduct training. In addition, in most 
countries where we operate, we also require such associates to 
certify that they have complied with the Code of Conduct. Code 
of Conduct training is also provided when such associates join 
Danaher as new hires or through acquisitions, and live Code of 
Conduct training is provided in certain cases for our shop floor 
and manufacturing associates. In addition, associates are assigned 
training on various, specific ethics and compliance topics as part 
of the Danaher Annual Training Program. This program helps 
all associates understand their obligations under the law, the 
expectation to act ethically and how to manage the risks inherent 
in their job function. In 2020, the Annual Training Program included 
the following training courses (the specific courses assigned to any 
particular associate are based on the associate’s role and level within 
the organization):
• Code of Conduct  
• Creating a Harassment-Free Workplace 
• Cyber Security 
• Data Privacy and Protection 
• Environment, Health and Safety 
• Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 
• Insider Trading  
• Marketing and Advertising of Medical Devices 
• Quality Systems Regulations: Good Manufacturing ProcessesFOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Ethical Workplace
Directions - Jasper, Canada by Klaus Kjoeller, Radiometer associate
GRI: 102-16, 205-1, 205-2
SASB: RT-EE-510a.12021 Danaher Sustainability Report49Note: 2018 data includes Envista Holdings CorporationFOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
In general, any associate who fails to complete the required ethics and compliance training in a 
given year can achieve a score on the Integrity Anchor of no more than 2 out of 5 (if they fail to 
complete one required training course) or 1 out of 5 (if they fail to complete two or more required 
training courses). We may withhold advancement opportunities, further recognition or monetary 
bonuses from, or terminate, associates who do not meet our expectations with respect to integrity 
and compliance. 
Our culture of integrity is built and maintained by all associates, but our leaders carry an additional 
responsibility. To ensure that our people leaders understand their role in building a culture of 
integrity, ethical leadership training is included in the Leadership Development Program for newly 
promoted mid-level and senior leaders. These sessions are facilitator-led, scenario-based, and 
rooted in real Danaher leader experiences. 
Ensuring that associates who join Danaher through acquisition are immersed in the Danaher 
culture of ethics and compliance is a key element of our integration playbook. We set a 
target of training all new associates on the Code of Conduct within 90 days of the date the 
acquisition closes. Our largest acquisition to date, Cytiva, was no exception. 99.9% of in-scope 
Cytiva associates completed the Code of Conduct training within 90 days of the date the 
acquisition closed in March 2020. Countering Bribery & Corruption
Bribery and corruption are risks for all global enterprises. Preventing, detecting and responding 
to these risks, as well as maintaining accurate books and records, is a critical priority for Danaher 
and its platforms and operating companies.
All Danaher associates must comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and all Danaher 
policies and processes, relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption. These policies and processes 
include the following: 
Anti-Corruption Policy
Danaher’s policy is to abide by the anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws of the countries in which 
we operate, and our Anti-Corruption Policy specifically articulates this requirement. The Danaher 
Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits Danaher associates and representatives from improperly making, 
offering, providing or authorizing the provision of anything of value to third parties to affect a 
decision or secure an advantage in order to obtain or retain business.
Gifts & Entertainment Policy
Danaher competes for business on our merits. The Danaher Gift & Entertainment Policy prohibits 
providing gifts and entertainment to secure business. Danaher associates may not give or receive 
gifts and entertainment as a quid pro quo for selecting a particular supplier. Additional restrictions 
apply to gifts and entertainment provided to government officials.
Customer Trip and Entertainment Policy and Procedure
The Danaher Customer Trip and Entertainment Policy and Procedure sets forth the criteria that 
must be met for Danaher to arrange for customer travel, including a legitimate Danaher business 
purpose and permissibility under applicable law and other relevant Danaher policies.
GRI: 102-16, 205-1, 205-2
SASB: RT-EE-510a.12021 Danaher Sustainability Report50 Danaher Anti-Corruption Program 
Our Anti-Corruption Program (ACP) is managed by Danaher’s corporate 
ethics and compliance function, in cooperation with our internal audit and 
finance functions. The ACP consists of an annual risk assessment process that 
evaluates and quantifies corruption risk at every operating company based on 
criteria including the Corruption Perceptions Index (a publicly available index 
that ranks countries by their perceived levels of public sector corruption), 
revenue by country, historical compliance and internal audit performance, 
business model and management input. The results of the ACP risk 
assessment drive the selection and application of anti-corruption auditing, 
monitoring and risk-mitigation activities across our operating companies
Channel Partner Management 
We also evaluate and monitor the ethics and compliance of our third-
party sales partners, such as distributors, through our Channel Partner 
Management compliance program. This program includes the following 
elements:
• Our Channel Partner Code of Conduct  articulates our ethics 
 and compliance expectations and requirements of our sales 
 channel partners.  
• We conduct due diligence on our third-party sales partners 
 to help ensure adherence to our Code of Conduct  and reduce  
 risk before the partner is approved to conduct business on 
 behalf of Danaher. Diligence is risk-based and repeated at 
 periodic intervals.  
• Our third-party sales partners (and many of our other 
 third party intermediaries) are required to complete our 
 Anti-Corruption Program training, which is a condition to 
 a Danaher operating company entering into or renewing a 
 contract with such partner.   Import and Export
The countries in which we operate typically regulate 
how goods are imported and exported. Danaher’s Policy 
Regarding Worldwide Import Regulations provides guidance 
to our businesses on these regulations and requires each 
operating company to implement applicable policies and 
procedures to help ensure compliance with these laws
Additionally, U.S. export control regulations are intended 
to ensure that certain products and technologies are not 
sold to actors who could use such items for inappropriate 
purposes, and many other countries have similar laws. The 
Danaher Export Compliance Policy describes the types of 
transactions subject to export control laws globally and the 
processes Danaher has instituted to help ensure compliance.  
Associates in business development and strategy, supply 
chain and logistics, legal, management, sales, quality and 
regulatory affairs and finance functions receive training on 
trade compliance and sanctions at least bi-annually as part of 
the Annual Training Program. In addition, Danaher requires 
its businesses to screen all parties to a transaction before 
export, using a reputable screening provider, to help ensure 
compliance with applicable trade compliance regulations.             FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
• Our third-party sales partners are required to complete 
 an annual certification of their compliance with the Danaher 
 Channel Partner Code of Conduct as well as all applicable 
 laws and regulations.  
• We leverage artificial intelligence to continuously monitor our 
 third-party sales partners for legal or reputational issues that 
 may surface through various channels, including watch lists, 
 sanctions, court filings or media. 
• We proactively audit select third-party sales partners to ensure  
 their ongoing commitment to Danaher’s Channel Partner Code  
 of Conduct. 
Competition and Trade Compliance 
Many countries have laws governing fair competition as well as 
how products and services are moved in or out of country. Danaher 
has implemented policies, training, and processes to mitigate risks 
relating to these laws, including the following:
Antitrust
It is Danaher’s policy to comply with all applicable laws, rules and 
regulations against unfair competition. The Danaher Antitrust 
Policy addresses compliance with the United States federal antitrust 
laws, notes activities that may lead to antitrust law violations and 
highlights areas where European competition law may differ from 
U.S. law.
 
GRI: 102-16, 205-1, 205-2
SASB: RT-EE-510a.12021 Danaher Sustainability Report51Ethical Interactions with Healthcare Professionals
Danaher’s Code of Conduct  requires that we comply with all applicable 
laws and regulations that govern our promotional activities and our 
educational and commercial relationships with healthcare professionals. To 
further advance compliance, businesses in our Diagnostics segment belong 
to various industry associations that promulgate industry-specific ethical 
frameworks, including the Advanced Medical Technology Association 
(AdvaMed), a global medical device trade association, and MedTech Europe, 
a European trade association for the medical technology industry. All of 
our Diagnostics businesses have committed to comply with AdvaMed’s 
Code of Ethics on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, which 
clarifies and distinguishes appropriate activity with healthcare professionals 
(HCPs), and our European Diagnostics businesses have also committed to 
comply with the MedTech Europe Code of Ethical Business Practice, which 
regulates all aspects of the industry’s relationship with HCPs and healthcare 
organizations to help ensure such interactions are ethical and professional.
Danaher associates in businesses that interact with healthcare professionals 
receive information and training about the above requirements in a number 
of ways, including online and in-person trainings and periodic 
communications. Associates in sales, management, marketing, and quality 
and regulatory affairs functions receive the Marketing and Advertising of 
Medical Devices training annually as part of the Annual Training Program.  
 We support industry initiatives and regulatory requirements to 
make information about certain payments or transfers of value to 
healthcare professionals publicly available, and our Sustainability 
Policy  memorializes our support for such transparency. In the United 
States, each of our healthcare companies publishes aggregated 
financial data under the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, a national 
disclosure program within the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services (CMS) that promotes transparency around the financial 
relationships between healthcare providers and manufacturers of 
drugs, medical devices and biologics. Disclosures are also made 
based on specific state requirements. In Europe, we comply with 
the Disclosure Guidelines of the MedTech Europe Code of Ethical 
Business Practice as well as other country specific disclosure laws 
such as the French Sunshine Act (Loi Bertrand), Italian Sunshine Act 
(based on the Assobiomedica Code), and Decree Law 5-2017 of the 
Portuguese Ministry of Health. Other countries or regions in Asia 
Pacific, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa have similar legal 
or industry code requirements that we make disclosures pursuant to.
Our Sustainability Policy also articulates our support for the overall 
principles of greater clinical trial data transparency, including 
registration and disclosure of clinical trial results in external 
registries, publication of results in peer-reviewed journals and 
sharing of clinical study reports and participant-level data from 
clinical trials. Clinical trials conducted around the world by our 
businesses are listed on the U.S. National Institutes of Health’s 
website, www.clinicaltrials.gov , the European Clinical Trials Register, 
and country-specific and regional registries across the globe.FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Responsible Marketing to  
Customers & Patients
Danaher’s Code of Conduct requires that we promote our medical 
products solely based on their approved labeling, that we sell our 
products through accurate and truthful communications, and that 
all information provided to others about our medical products be 
truthful, balanced and supported by data and relevant experience. 
In addition to the Code of Conduct and the AdvaMed and MedTech 
Europe ethical frameworks referenced above, we require all associates 
who market directly to healthcare professionals to follow these 
Danaher policies:
• Healthcare Professionals Interaction Policy: Addresses the   
 standards for conducting events with healthcare professionals  
 in attendance as well as engaging healthcare professionals to   
 provide services   
• Product Marketing, Advertising and Promotion Policy:    
 Addresses the use of any type of marketing to inform or  
 persuade target audiences of the relative merits of a product,   
 service, brand or issue 
• MedTech Gift and Entertainment Policy: Promotes compliance  
 with all applicable regulations and rules, globally, that govern   
 interactions with healthcare professionals 
• Social Media Guidelines for FDA-Regulated Operating    
 Companies: Addresses information used on social media  
 and other online platforms to advertise and promote products  
 and services
In 2020, Danaher incurred no monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with false marketing claims.
GRI: 102-12, 102-13, 102-16, 205-1, 205-2
SASB: HC-MS-270a.1, HC-MS-270a.2, HC-MS-510a.2, RT-EE-510a.12021 Danaher Sustainability Report52Regulatory Framework; Danaher Risk Profile
Danaher’s subsidiaries make and sell life sciences, medical diagnostics, water quality and product 
identification products and solutions. Some of these products are medical devices that are regulated 
by the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Our medical device manufacturing sites are 
required to adhere to all applicable quality system regulations and requirements, including with 
respect to the U.S. Current Good Manufacturing Practices (CGMP) requirements set forth in the 
FDA’s Quality Systems Regulation (QSR) and in Europe and other countries around the world the 
ISO Medical Devices – Quality Management Standard (ISO 13485).  
The risk profile of our medical device portfolio differs from that of many of our medical device 
peers. Our medical devices consist primarily of products used to collect, prepare, organize and 
examine specimens in vitro. Medical professionals may take into account results generated from our 
products, often with other factors, in diagnosing and treating patients. By comparison, many of our 
medical device peers primarily produce medical devices that are implanted into, or applied to, the 
human body, which may carry greater risk of injury to the human body.
The FDA’s risk classification of our medical devices reflects these points and illustrates that with 
few exceptions, our medical devices are classified as low or medium risk. The chart to the right 
categorizes the FDA-registered sites of Danaher’s subsidiaries based on the risk classification of the 
devices produced at the site: FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Medical Device Product Quality
GRI: 102-12, 102-16, 419-12021 Danaher Sustainability Report53Centralized Compliance Standards and Controls
The Danaher Code of Conduct requires that the medical devices we make and sell strictly comply with 
all applicable rules and regulations. To help ensure compliance, we deploy common Quality Management Systems (QMS) standards and controls across our medical device operating companies to drive the safety and effectiveness of these products and services. Below are highlights of these standards and controls.
Regulatory, Quality and Clinical Affairs KPIs 
We require our operating companies to track and report on a regular cadence KPIs designed to provide transparency, drive accountability, and measure the health of our QMS. These required KPIs focus on pre-market and post-market product and QMS performance, covering areas such as internal and external audits, supplier and internal corrective and preventive actions, complaints, external defects, clinical trials, recalls and adverse events. KPI goals are established for each medical device operating company, and we leverage our DBS tools to help us meet these goals. Danaher’s executive leadership reviews these KPIs on a regular basis, in addition to established QMS reviews by our operating company leadership.
Corporate Audit Programs 
Annually, Danaher’s corporate staff audits our sites registered with the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s CGMP requirements, including product testing, supplier evaluation and monitoring, medical device reporting, recalls, FDA establishment registrations and device listings. With respect to medical device sites regulated by comparable regulators in other countries, the corporate audit staff typically includes those applicable regulatory requirements in their audit protocols, including as applicable the ISO 13485 standard and Medical Device Single Audit Program requirements. Danaher’s corporate audit function also regularly audits our businesses to help ensure compliance with Danaher’s and the applicable operating company’s policies regarding responsible marketing, advertising and promotional procedures, and practices and training.
Annual Compliance Training 
The KPI and auditing controls described above are bolstered by CGMP-specific annual training requirements. All associates employed by our medical device operating companies, including senior management, are required to participate in annual training covering CGMP compliance and compliance with laws governing the advertising and promotion of our products.FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Sunshine in the Forest by Stacey Kendall, Cytiva associate
GRI: 102-16, 417-1
SASB: HC-MS-510a.2, RT -EE-510a.12021 Danaher Sustainability Report54Regulatory Inspections
As a medical device manufacturer, our manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection on 
a routine basis by the FDA and by similar agencies in other countries. The FDA inspects (and 
independent certification organizations designated by non-U.S. regulatory authorities audit) 
registered medical device sites using a risk-based process, taking into account the risk profile of 
the products manufactured by the site. In connection with an inspection, the FDA may issue Form 
483 Inspectional Observations, Warning Letters, and/or consent decrees, which list conditions or 
practices that may indicate a violation of the FDA’s requirements. Danaher’s goal each year (including 
2021) is to have zero FDA Form 483 Inspectional Observations, Warning Letters and consent 
decrees. The chart below illustrates our FDA inspection performance from 2018 through 2020:
Danaher Reliability System
We deploy a common framework and suite of processes across Danaher’s operating companies 
(including our medical device operating companies) to drive product quality and reliability, known as 
the Danaher Reliability System (DRS). The DRS, one of the foundational tools in the DBS toolbox, 
operates across the product lifecycle and consists of six pillars: leadership focus on reliability, design 
for reliability, Supplier Quality Management, manufacturing process control, customer service and 
support, and customer defect tracking and resolution. The DRS both supports and incorporates 
the medical device regulatory requirements described above as applicable, but goes beyond such 
requirements with the goal of driving world-class reliability.Recalls
A medical device recall can include actions ranging from a labeling change or an in-field 
correction to a partial or full removal of the product from the market, depending on the 
nature of the issue and the risk to public health. Medical device recalls are typically conducted 
voluntarily by the manufacturer but may also be mandated by FDA. Recalls are required to be 
reported to FDA if the recall was initiated to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to 
remedy a violation of applicable law caused by the device which may present a risk to health. 
FDA classifies recalls as Class I (highest risk), Class II or Class III (lowest risk) based on the 
relative degree of health hazard posed by the recall. The table below illustrates our FDA recall 
activity from 2018 through 2020:FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Note: Recalls are reflected in the year the applicable Danaher operating company initiated and reported the recall to the FDA.
GRI: 102-16, 419-1
SASB: HC-MS-250a.1, HC-MS-250a.42021 Danaher Sustainability Report55Danaher maintains an extensive, complex network of supplier relationships that are critical to 
our success. In 2020, we conducted business with over 80,000 suppliers globally, and our supply 
chain spending exceeded $8 billion—a reach that offers us the opportunity to drive our sustainability 
values across a footprint far broader than our direct operations. As a result, we view our supply chain 
as an extension of our own business and expect our suppliers to share our values. While recognizing 
differences in laws, customs and acceptable practices around the world, we believe shared values are the 
cornerstone of supplier relationships and we articulate our expectations through the following policies:
• Supplier Code of Conduct  Sets forth the requirements and expectations we have of our 
 suppliers with respect to legal compliance and ethical business practices. 
• Sustainable Supply Chain Policy  Details Danaher’s requirements and expectations with 
 respect to the extension of our sustainability values across our supply chain.  
• Conflict Minerals Policy Statement Sets forth our rules designed to avoid the sourcing of 
 minerals that finance or benefit armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or in  
 adjoining countries.
Danaher’s Vice President of Global Procurement and Supply Chain, who reports to Danaher’s Executive 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for Danaher’s supply chain sustainability 
program.
We have implemented the following management programs to help mitigate risk, support product quality 
and drive our sustainability values in our supply chain:
Supplier Risk Assessment/Risk Management 
We have a rigorous supply chain risk assessment/risk management program that incorporates supplier 
financial and risk data from external providers as well as Danaher internal data. Key elements of the 
program include the following:  
• Suppliers are scored based on their impact on Danaher’s revenues, the supplier’s financial 
 health and any Danaher source limitations with respect to the supplied product.• A risk management plan (RMP) is required to be developed and implemented for any 
 supplier who exceeds a specified risk assessment score. The RMP may include, among 
 other elements and as applicable, financial monitoring, business continuity planning, 
 supplier training/development, additional contractual provisions and tooling assessments.  
 • In addition, a supplier emergency response plan is required to be developed and 
  implemented for any supplier whose revenue impact and source limitation scores 
  exceed a specified level. 
• Leadership at both the Danaher and operating company level review the program status 
 for their respective businesses on a regular basis.
Sustainability Due Diligence, Assessment and Monitoring 
We have partnered with EcoVadis, a globally recognized provider of business sustainability assessments 
and ratings, to assess and monitor our supplier sustainability performance. In 2021, we anticipate that 
EcoVadis will assess and rate suppliers representing more than 40% of our annual supplier spend on 
topics including energy consumption and GHG emissions; water consumption; biodiversity; supplier 
environmental practices; product use and product end-of-life; customer health and safety; employee 
health and safety; working conditions; career management and training; child labor, forced labor and 
human trafficking; diversity, discrimination and harassment; supplier social practices; human rights; 
corruption; anticompetitive practices; and responsible information management. In-scope suppliers are 
also monitored on a real-time basis with respect to specific KPIs including U.S. Global Compact signatory 
status; CDP participation; the existence of a formal sustainability policy; the existence of an active 
whistleblower procedure and policies on anti-corruption and bribery; extent of ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 
certification coverage; public reporting on energy consumption, GHG emissions and health and safety 
indicators; and sustainability-related audits or assessments.   
• The EcoVadis rating a Danaher supplier receives could impact the frequency of subsequent 
 EcoVadis assessments or could require the supplier to develop a Corrective Action Plan 
 targeting specific improvements, among other impacts. Please see our Sustainable Supply  
 Chain Policy  for additional details. FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Supply Chain Sustainability
GRI: 102-9
SASB: HC-MS-430a.32021 Danaher Sustainability Report56FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Supplier Quality Management 
One of the key elements of the Danaher Reliability System is the Supplier Quality Management 
(SQM) process. The iterative elements of SQM include criteria for supplier qualification and 
processes to measure and monitor supplier performance, implement corrective actions and improve 
supplier performance. Where appropriate we provide training and other development support 
to improve supplier performance, which may include supplier corrective action plans, supplier 
development plans, DBS-based improvement activities, process audits and/or business reviews. In 
our medical device businesses, the SQM both supports and incorporates applicable medical device 
regulatory requirements, including supplier audits where required.
Training and Education 
In 2021, we implemented an annual program to train our procurement associates on human rights 
awareness, risk management and other sustainable supply chain topics, including human trafficking, 
labor and employment rights, employee health and safety, responsible environmental practices, anti-
corruption, business ethics and data and IP protection. All Danaher procurement associates will be 
required to complete this training annually.
Conflict Minerals
Danaher is committed to complying with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-
Affected and High-Risk Areas, as well as Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which aims to 
prevent the use of minerals that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the DRC or 
in adjoining countries ( conflict minerals ).
Suppliers to Danaher are required to commit to being or becoming “conflict-free” (which means 
that such supplier does not source conflict minerals) and sourcing only from conflict-free smelters. 
Danaher requires suppliers to provide completed Responsible Minerals Initiative Conflict Minerals 
Reporting Template declarations evidencing such supplier’s commitment to becoming conflict-free 
and documenting countries of origin for the tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold that it purchases. Supply Chain Management
Danaher’s manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including 
metallic-based components, electronic components, chemistries, OEM products, plastics and 
other petroleum-based products. Prices of oil and gas also affect our costs for freight and utilities. 
Danaher purchases raw materials from a large number of independent sources around the world. 
No single supplier is material, although for some components that require particular specifications 
or regulatory or other qualifications, there may be a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers 
that can readily provide such components. Danaher uses a number of techniques to address 
potential disruption in and other risks relating to its supply chain, including in certain cases the use 
of safety stock, alternative materials and qualification of multiple supply sources.
Watkins Glen State Park by Krista Sessions, Pall associate
GRI: 102-9, 102-12
SASB: HC-MS-430a.32021 Danaher Sustainability Report57Board Structure and Responsibilities
Our Board of Directors (either directly or through its committees):
• Together with management, determines Danaher’s long-term strategy 
 and oversees Danaher’s strategic acquisition and integration process 
• Oversees Danaher’s culture, management succession planning and 
 development (including both a long-term succession plan and emergency 
 succession plan for the CEO position), compensation, benefits, talent 
 recruiting and retention, associate engagement and diversity and 
 inclusion programs  
• Evaluates the performance and sets the compensation of our CEO 
 and other executive officers 
• Oversees the quality and integrity of Danaher’s financial statements, 
 Danaher’s internal controls over financial reporting, Danaher’s    
 compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and Danaher’s 
 integrity and compliance program  
• Oversees our sustainability program  
• Oversees our overall risk assessment and risk management program 
 as well as risks specifically relating to our strategy, acquisition and 
 capital allocation program, capital structure, liquidity, organizational   
 structure, legal and regulatory compliance, cybersecurity, privacy,    
 compensation policies and practices, sustainability, governance, conflicts  
 of interest and science and technology trendsOur Board consists of 13 members. We have separated the positions 
of Chairman of the Board and CEO and because our Chairman is 
an executive officer, our Board has appointed a Lead Independent 
Director to chair meetings of the independent directors and act as 
a liaison, as necessary, between the independent directors and the 
management directors. The Board’s Audit Committee, Compensation 
Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee each consist 
entirely of independent directors.
Board Selection, Composition and 
Refreshment
Nominees for Danaher’s Board may be suggested by our directors, 
members of management, shareholders or, in some cases, by a 
third-party search firm.
Our Board actively manages Board composition and refreshment. 
Using our Board skills matrix as a guide as well as the results of our 
annual Board and committee self-assessment process, the Nominating 
and Governance Committee evaluates Board composition at least 
annually and identifies for Board consideration areas of background 
and expertise that would complement and enhance our current Board. 
In considering the Committee’s recommendations, the Board seeks 
to thoughtfully balance the knowledge and experience that comes 
from longer-term Board service with the fresh perspectives and new 
domain expertise that can come from adding new directors. We have 
added four new directors to our Board over the past two years, helping 
reduce our average director tenure by more than 20% from 2019  
to 2021. Diversity is a critical dimension of our focus on Board 
composition and refreshment. Our Board believes that it 
should collectively embody a diverse set of skills, knowledge, 
experiences and backgrounds appropriate to the Company’s 
needs, and as a result it takes into account racial/ethnic, 
gender, age and national origin diversity when considering 
director nominees.    
Our Board’s current composition demonstrates the D+I 
progress we have achieved. Today over 30% of Danaher’s 
Board is female; two of our key Board leadership positions 
are held by a female director (Lead Independent Director and 
Chair of the Nominating and Governance Committee); more 
than 20% of our independent directors are under the age of 
50; three of our directors were born outside the U.S.; and 
our Board includes a Black director and directors of Middle 
Eastern and North African descent. FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Governance
GRI: 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-26, 405-1
UN: SDG 52021 Danaher Sustainability Report58FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
The graph below illustrates the diverse set of skills, expertise and backgrounds represented on our Board (as of August 1, 2021): 
* “C” refers to Caucasian; “B” refers to Black  + Dr . Sabeti is of Middle Eastern descent. ++ D r. Zerhouni is of North African descent
GRI: 102-22, 405-1  
UN: SDG 52021 Danaher Sustainability Report59CEO Succession Planning
The foundation of our Board’s CEO succession planning process is a CEO development model 
consisting of two dimensions: leadership behaviors and development experiences. The Board uses the development model as a guide in preparing candidates, and in evaluating candidates for the CEO and other executive positions at the Board’s annual talent review and succession planning session. At the annual session, the Board evaluates and compares candidates using the development model and reviews each candidate’s development actions and progress over time as well as business performance. The candidate evaluations are supplemented with periodic 360-degree performance appraisals, and the Board also regularly interacts with candidates at Board dinners and lunches, through Board meeting presentations and at our annual leadership conference. The transition of the CEO role from Thomas P. Joyce, Jr. to Rainer M. Blair in September 2020 represents a culmination of this ongoing process.  
Managing Potential Conflicts of Interest
Danaher’s Nominating and Governance Committee reviews and, if appropriate, approves related person transactions prior to consummation. Related person transactions of an ongoing nature are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Stakeholder Engagement Program
Our Sustainability Mission Statement states: “For us, sustainability means a commitment to considering the long-term interests of our associates, customers, shareholders, business partners, communities and our planet in everything we do.” Stakeholder engagement (which refers to the way we interact with those who influence and are influenced by our business activities) helps us understand our stakeholders’ long-term interests and understand how our activities impact individuals, communities and the planet. Danaher is committed to engaging with a variety of stakeholders, including associates, investors, communities, customers and other business partners, to understand their expectations of Danaher and the different ways our activities affect them (including with respect to environmental issues).Our stakeholder engagement program includes:
•
E
ngaging with a broad range of stakeholder groups: In a global business such as Danaher’s,
w
ith sales, operations and customers in dozens of countries, our business contribution and
i
mpact has a broad reach. We therefore engage with a range of different stakeholders, including
a
ssociates, customers, shareholders, suppliers, local communities and government entities.
T
hese engagements occur in connection with our periodic materiality assessments as well as in
o
ther contexts. For example, during 2020, in addition to our traditional investor relations
o
utreach efforts, we engaged with shareholders representing approximately 25% of our
o
utstanding shares on a range of sustainability topics. Our investor relations efforts have been
r
ecognized with numerous awards over the years, including those set forth below.
• U
tilizing stakeholder engagement feedback: We highly value the information and insights we
g
ain from stakeholder engagement and communicate engagement outcomes, as appropriate,
t
o the Danaher Sustainability Committee and to the Nominating & Governance Committee of
D
anaher’s Board of Directors, to help identify potential risks and opportunities and inform
b
usiness decisions. We provide updates, where relevant, relating to stakeholder engagement in
o
ur annual Proxy Statement and our annual Sustainability Report.
• O
ngoing engagement with industry groups and associations: As part of our inclusive approach,
D
anaher participates in industry groups and associations that help drive sustainability practices
w
ithin our Company and across our industries.
• Engagement on sustainability reporting: In order to help ensure our disclosures meet
s
takeholder needs, we periodically engage with external consultants and sustainability
r
eporting specialists and invite suggestions for improving our disclosure. At the start of each
r
eporting cycle, we review feedback and adjust our disclosure where appropriate.FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
GRI: 102-21, 102-25, 102-432021 Danaher Sustainability Report60Communication with the Board
Shareholders and other parties interested in communicating 
directly with our Board, or with individual directors, our 
Lead Independent Director or the non-management or 
independent directors as a group, may do so by addressing 
communications to the Board of Directors, to the 
specified individual director or to the non-management 
or independent directors, as applicable, c/o Corporate 
Secretary, Danaher Corporation, 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, 
N.W., Suite 800W, Washington, D.C. 20037-1701.FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Spotlight:
IR Magazine Awards 
• Best Corporate Governance (US):  
2014, 2015, 2018, 2021
• Best Investor Relations Program in Healthcare (US): 
2016, 2017, 2018, 2019
• Best Investor Relations Program in Healthcare (Global):  
2018, 2019
• Best Overall Investor Relations Program (US): 
2018
• Best Investor Relations Officer (US):  
20212020 Institutional Investor Awards 
Life Science & Diagnostic Tools and Medical 
Supplies & Devices Sector
• Best Investor Relations Program
• Best CEO
• Best CFO
• Best Investor Relations Professional
• Best Investor Relations Team
• Best in Corporate Governance
• Best in ESG/SRI Metrics
• Best Analyst Days
GRI: 102-332021 Danaher Sustainability Report61FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
While risk-taking is essential to growing a business, we recognize that prudent risk management 
is necessary to deliver long-term, sustainable shareholder value. Our annual Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) program is the key management program that underpins our risk oversight 
function. The goal of our ERM program is to comprehensively inventory and mitigate key risks 
across all of Danaher’s platforms and operating companies. The risk data collected is used to 
support effective business decision-making and assess risk-reward tradeoffs. It also gives our 
leadership visibility into key existing and emerging business risks and countermeasures and enables 
us to mitigate risks as dictated by our risk-reward assessment. The result is that Danaher and its 
operating companies are able to build better, more resilient businesses supported by a risk-based 
approach. 
At the beginning of the annual ERM process, our corporate risk management function 
communicates the key elements of the ERM program to our platforms and operating companies, 
highlighting any year-over-year changes. The program includes an inventory and classification of 
key risk areas and key risk topics to be assessed; a methodology for scoring identified risks based 
on the risk’s probability, severity and velocity of impact, and for trending key risks; a framework for 
developing countermeasures for key risks; a process for assigning responsibility and deadlines for 
the implementation of such countermeasures, and re-assessing such risks following implementation 
of the applicable countermeasures; and a timeline for collection and synthesis of the risk assessment 
data and reporting of key risks and countermeasures to the Danaher Risk Committee and the 
Danaher Board of Directors. The program also incorporates ERM-specific DBS tools, including an 
action plan template and a “bowler” methodology used to break down risks to their fundamental 
elements, establish the relevant “jumping off point” and track actual improvements against plan on 
a monthly basis.The program requires evaluation of risk across five main pillars: operational, strategic, financial and 
accounting, compliance and information technology/security. Examples of the sustainability/ESG 
and other risk topics covered within these pillars include risks relating to regulations, sovereign/
political dynamics, IP, natural catastrophe, competition for talent, supply chain, climate change, 
business continuity and disaster recovery, compliance, bribery and anti-corruption, competition, 
international trade, finance and accounting, cybersecurity and IT infrastructure. 
Each operating company assesses its respective risks according to the prescribed methodology 
and communicates the results to its respective platform risk committee. The strength of our ERM 
program lies in the autonomy we give our operating companies to think broadly about the risks they 
face and determine how best to mitigate them. We know that those who are closest to gemba  are 
best positioned to identify and mitigate our most significant risks. 
Each platform risk committee reviews and synthesizes the results from its operating companies, 
identifies key themes, ensures appropriate risk prioritization and communicates its results to the 
Danaher Risk Committee, which consists of Danaher’s General Counsel, Chief Financial Officer, 
Chief Accounting Officer, Head of Internal Audit, Deputy General Counsel and Chief Ethics & 
Compliance Officer. The Danaher Risk Committee reviews the results, holds discussions with the 
leadership of each platform and prepares a final report that is presented to the Danaher Board of 
Directors annually. Danaher’s General Counsel (the executive with management-level responsibility 
for our ERM program) also updates the Audit Committee of the Board on a periodic basis regarding 
Danaher’s ERM processes. The Board’s role in risk oversight is consistent with Danaher’s leadership 
structure: management has day-to-day responsibility for assessing and managing Danaher’s risk 
exposure, and the Board and its committees oversee those efforts, with emphasis on our most 
significant risks.
Risk Oversight
GRI: 102-15, 102-20, 102-29, 102-30, 201-2, 205-1
TCFD: Governance, Strategy, Risk Management2021 Danaher Sustainability Report62FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Our goal is to maintain a secure environment for our products, data 
and systems that effectively supports our business objectives and 
customer needs. Our commitment to cybersecurity emphasizes 
cultivation of a security-minded culture through security education 
and training, and a programmatic and layered approach that reflects 
industry best practice.
We have adopted a comprehensive Information Security Policy that 
clearly articulates Danaher’s expectations and requirements with 
respect to acceptable use, risk management, data privacy, education 
and awareness, security incident management and reporting, 
identity and access management, third-party management, security 
(with respect to physical assets, products, networks and systems), 
security monitoring and vulnerability identification. The policy 
sets forth a detailed security incident management and reporting 
protocol, with clear escalation timelines and responsibilities. 
We also maintain a global incident response plan and regularly 
conduct exercises to help ensure its effectiveness and our overall 
preparedness. 
We believe cybersecurity is the responsibility of every associate. 
We regularly educate and share best practices with our associates 
to raise awareness of cyber threats. Every year, all associates in 
administrative, business, technical, professional, management and 
executive career categories are required to take information security and protection training as part of the Danaher Annual Training 
Program, and (in most countries where we operate) are required 
to certify their awareness of and compliance with the Information 
Security Policy. We also conduct monthly education, training and 
cyber-event simulations for our associates to reinforce awareness of 
the cyber threat landscape.
We take measures to regularly improve and update our 
cybersecurity program, including independent program assessments, 
penetration testing and scanning of our systems for vulnerabilities.
The cybersecurity program is led by the Company’s Chief 
Information Security Officer, who along with Danaher’s Chief 
Information Officer, provide multiple updates each year to the Audit 
Committee regarding this program, including information about 
cyber-risk management governance and the status of projects to 
strengthen cybersecurity effectiveness. The Audit Committee 
regularly briefs the full Board on these matters, and the full 
Board also receives periodic briefings from management on our 
cybersecurity program. We also updated our disclosure controls and 
procedures to specifically address cybersecurity risk, including by 
amending Danaher’s Insider Trading Policy to address cybersecurity 
and by ensuring clear linkage between our Disclosure Committee 
and Chief Information Security Officer.
Spotlight:
Managing Cybersecurity Risks
On the Lookout by Leonard Sim, Molecular Devices associate
GRI: 102-15, 102-20, 102-29, 102-30
TCFD: Risk Management2021 Danaher Sustainability Report63Jinta County in Gansu Province, Northwest China by Feng Lv, Cytiva associateFOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Danaher’s ERM program specifically prompts consideration of 
potential risks related to climate change, including acute or chronic 
physical facility risks attributable to climate change; regulatory risks, 
such as increased taxation of, or caps on the use of, carbon-based 
energy; competitive risks due to evolving customer preferences for 
more environmentally friendly solutions; and reputational risk tied 
to changing customer or community perceptions of an organization’s 
contribution to or detraction from the environment.
A key climate-related risk for Danaher (as a result of our global 
physical footprint) is physical risk resulting from acute or chronic 
changes in climate patterns. Acute physical risks include increased 
severity of extreme weather events, such as cyclones, hurricanes 
or floods (depending on the geography). Chronic physical risks refer 
to longer-term shifts in climate patterns (such as sustained higher 
temperatures) that may cause sea level rise (which could impact our 
facilities in coastal areas), droughts or heat waves. These physical 
risks may have financial implications for Danaher, such as direct 
damage to assets and indirect impacts from supply chain disruption. 
Elsewhere in this Report, we discuss steps Danaher has taken to 
mitigate the potential impact of these types of physical risk to its 
facilities as well as Danaher’s efforts to reduce energy consumption 
and GHG emissions. Key climate-related opportunities for Danaher include the prospect 
of developing new commercial solutions to address customers’ 
sustainability-related needs, and the potential to reduce Danaher’s 
operating costs. Given that “Customers Talk, We Listen” is a Danaher 
Core Value, customer feedback regarding sustainability requirements 
has been and will continue to be an innovation driver for Danaher. 
We include in this Report examples where our operating companies 
have incorporated customer feedback and innovated products 
and solutions to address sustainability-specific needs. In addition, 
Danaher’s businesses are increasingly focused on improving 
efficiency across our production and distribution processes, 
production assets, buildings and transport/mobility in relation to 
energy reduction, efficiency, waste and water management. In 
this Report, we include examples where our operating companies 
have quantified cost savings from environmental impact reduction 
initiatives. Danaher’s energy and GHG emission reduction targets, 
and targets to reduce the percentage of waste sent to landfills or 
incinerators, are helping accelerate these efforts.Spotlight:
Risks and Opportunities Related  
to Climate Change
GRI: 102-15, 102-29, 201-2
TCFD: Governance, Strategy, Risk Management  UN: SDG 132021 Danaher Sustainability Report64FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Political Involvement Policy
We believe in the right of associates to participate in the political process. We encourage our associates 
to be active in charitable and political activities on their own time and at their own expense. 
Our Sustainability Policy  states that:
• In all communications, associates must make clear that political views and actions are their own 
 and not those of Danaher.
• Associates may never use Danaher resources to contribute to, support or oppose any political 
 party or candidate unless approved by Danaher Corporation’s Board of Directors or a committee 
 of the Board.
• Supervisors should not solicit direct or indirect reports to contribute to, support or oppose any 
 political party or candidate.
• Associates may never make a charitable or political contribution with the intent to improperly 
 influence someone. 
Trade/Industry Associations
Danaher belongs to and pays dues to certain U.S. trade and industry associations. Our policy is that each 
such association may use no more than $25,000 of Danaher’s dues in any calendar year for political purposes.
Political Expenditures
Danaher has adopted a formal policy governing political expenditures, set forth in our Sustainability Policy . Since 2012, 
no funds or assets of Danaher Corporation or its subsidiaries have been contributed to or for (1) any political party or 
candidate, whether federal, state or local, (2) any entity operating under 26 U.S.C. Sec. 527 of the Internal Revenue Code, 
(3) any entity organized under 26 U.S.C. Sec. 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, (4) any ballot measure or (5) any public 
communication that expressly advocates the election or defeat of a political candidate (“political purposes”). Pursuant to the 
policy, Danaher has no intention of contributing any Company funds or assets for political purposes; and any contribution of 
Company funds or assets for political purposes would require approval by Danaher’s President and CEO.
Political Matters
Pigeon Point Lighthouse Along Highway 1, California by Jay Nguyen, Cepheid associate
GRI: 102-20, 415-12021 Danaher Sustainability Report65About This Report
Reporting Frameworks
As part of our efforts to enhance the transparency and accountability of 
our sustainability program, this Report contains disclosures that address 
applicable elements of the Global Reporting Initiative™ (GRI) Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
Standards, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). With 
respect to each such standard, while this Report is not intended to meet all the requirements of the standard, we have referenced each relevant section  
of the standard as to which we believe full or partial responsive information 
has been provided. Reporting standards are denoted beneath each relevant 
section of content on our sustainability website, and on the bottom of 
each page of the Sustainability Report pdf document and in the Reporting 
Frameworks Index. To read our Reporting Frameworks Index, visit our 
Report online.
Morning Mood  by Jessika Schugardt, OTT HydroMet associateABOUT THIS REPORT 2021 Danaher Sustainability Report66Other Important Information About This Report
• Certain statements included or incorporated by reference in this Report are “forward-looking 
statements” within the meaning of the United States federal securities laws. All statements 
other than historical factual information are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking 
statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light 
of their experience and perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future 
developments and other factors. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance and actual results may differ materially from the results, developments and 
business decisions contemplated by our forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you should 
not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Important factors that 
in some cases have affected us in the past and that in the future could cause actual results 
to differ materially from those envisaged in our forward-looking statements are described 
in Danaher’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The forward-
looking statements included in this Report speak only as of the date of this Report, and except 
to the extent required by applicable law, we do not assume any obligation to update or revise 
any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events and 
developments or otherwise.
• Please note that the inclusion of information in this Report is not an indication that such 
information is necessarily material as defined under the U.S. federal securities laws and the 
applicable regulations thereunder.
• In this Report, we describe certain products and devices that have applications submitted and 
pending for certain regulatory approvals and/or are available only in certain markets. 
• Any trademarks, product names or brand images appearing herein are the property of their 
respective owners.
• We refer to developing markets as “high-growth markets” in our SEC filings and in this Report 
and define them as geographic markets experiencing extended periods of accelerated growth 
in gross domestic product and infrastructure, which include Eastern Europe, the Middle East, 
Africa, Latin America and Asia (except Japan, Australia and New Zealand).• Unless otherwise noted, all data in this Report is as of October 1, 2021 and is limited to 
continuing operations. All financial information in this Report is reported in U.S. dollars.
• Uncertainties are inherent in collecting data from a wide range of facilities and operations in a 
global company such as Danaher. The data included in this Report (other than audited financial 
data) are good faith estimates and have not been externally assured. We expect our data 
collection systems to evolve and we seek to continually improve our processes for collecting 
and disclosing accurate, meaningful and consistent data. 
• Danaher applied the following methodology with respect to the metrics and goals included in 
this Report relating to energy, GHG emissions, water and waste (“environmental metrics”). We 
collected 2020 data from (1) Danaher locations owned or leased from January 1, 2020 through 
December 31, 2020 that were within our operational control and accounted for approximately 
88% of our total owned or leased space (within our operational control) over such period, 
and (2) vehicles and aircraft owned or leased by Danaher during 2020. With respect to any 
locations owned or leased from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020 that were 
within our operational control and for which data was not collected, we accounted for such 
locations by linear extrapolation. The financial data to which the environmental impact metrics 
are normalized is limited to continuing operations and also excludes revenue attributable to 
acquisitions consummated within the applicable year, to promote comparability.
• The energy usage and GHG emissions metrics are based on good faith estimates of 
fuel consumed on-site, purchased energy and energy consumed through operation of 
Danaher-owned or -leased vehicles and aircraft. Danaher’s non-energy-consumption GHG 
emissions, such as refrigerant releases and process air emissions, are omitted.
• We define “regulated and hazardous waste” as wastes that are deemed regulated by 
national legislation/regulations.
• The 2019 environmental metrics reflect adjustments compared to what was reported 
in Danaher’s 2020 Sustainability Report, to correct errors identified subsequent to the 
publication of such report and to apply the above, updated data collection methodology.ABOUT THIS REPORT 
GRI: 102-482021 Danaher Sustainability Report67
Appendix A: Reporting Frameworks IndexAPPENDICES
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
 
UN Sustainable Development Goals68 
 
8184 
 
85
Spirit Island, Canadian Rockies by Erik Noort, OTT HydroMet associate2021 Danaher Sustainability Report68GRI – General Disclosures – Organization Profile
Description Code Response
Name of Organization 102-1 Danaher Corporation
Activities, brands, products, and services 102-2Danaher at a Glance – Our Businesses
Innovation
Location of headquarters 102-3Washington, D.C., U.S.
Danaher at a Glance – Map
Location of operations 102-42020 Form 10-K , p. 33, 116
Danaher at a Glance – Map 
Ownership and legal form 102-5 2019 Annual Report, p. 2
Markets served 102-62020 Form 10-K , p. 3-8 
Danaher at a Glance 
Innovation  – Diagnostics – Improving Access to Healthcare in Developing Markets
Scale of the organization 102-72020 Form 10-K , p. 9, 33, 64, 66 
Danaher at a Glance 
People
Sustainability & ESG Data SummaryREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX
As part of our efforts to enhance the transparency and accountability of 
our sustainability program, this Report contains disclosures that address 
elements of the Global Reporting Initiative™ (GRI) Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards, 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). With respect to 
each such standard, while this report is not intended to meet all the requirements of the standard, 
we have referenced each relevant section of the standard as to which we 
believe full or partial responsive information has been provided.
2021 Danaher Sustainability Report69GRI – General Disclosures – Organization Profile (continued)
Description Code Response
Information on employees and other workers 102-82020 Form 10-K , p. 9
People
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Supply chain 102-92020 Form 10-K , p. 8-9
Foundational Elements  – Supply Chain Sustainability
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
External initiatives 102-12People  – Diversity + Inclusion (CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion), In Our Communities, Human Rights (UN 
Global Compact)
Foundational Elements  – Medical Device Product Quality (FDA’s Quality Systems Regulation), (ISO 13485 
Medical Devices Quality Management System Standard), Ethical Workplace – Ethical Interactions with Healthcare 
Professionals (AdvaMed’s Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals, MedTech Europe Code 
of Ethical Business Practice), Supply Chain Sustainability – Conflict Minerals (OECD Due Diligence Guidance for 
Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas)
Membership of associations 102-13People  – Human Rights (UN Global Compact)
Foundational Elements  – Ethical Workplace – Ethical Interactions with Healthcare Professionals (AdvaMed, 
MedTech Europe)
GRI – General Disclosures - Strategy
Description Code Response
Statement from senior decisionmaker 102-14 From Our CEO
Key impacts, risks, and opportunities
  
 102-15 2021 Climate Change and Water Security CDP Responses 
Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety 
People  – Diversity + Inclusion – Diversity Goals and Metrics 
Foundational Elements  – Risk Oversight
Sustainability & ESG Data SummaryREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report70GRI – General Disclosures – Ethics & Integrity
Description Code Response
Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 102-16 Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct
Danaher at a Glance – How We Work
Innovation  – Innovation Defines Our Future
Environment
Foundational Elements  – Ethics and Compliance at Danaher; Ethical Workplace
Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 102-17 Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct
Foundational Elements  – Ethics and Compliance at Danaher; Ethical Workplace
GRI – General Disclosures - Governance
Description Code Response
Governance structure 102-18 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 19-25
Danaher at a Glance – Sustainability at Danaher
Foundational Elements  – Governance
Delegating authority 102-19 Danaher at a Glance – Sustainability at Danaher
Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-20 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 26-27
Danaher at a Glance – Sustainability Oversight
People  – Diversity + Inclusion – D+I Strategy and Oversight
Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 25-26, 85
Danaher at a Glance – Sustainability at Danaher 
Foundational Elements  – Governance – Stakeholder Engagement ProgramREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report71GRI – General Disclosures - Governance (continued)
Description Code Response
Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 102-22 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 13-16, 21-24
Foundational Elements  – Governance
Chair of the highest governance body 102-23 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 19
Foundational Elements  – Governance
Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 102-24 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 16-18
Foundational Elements  – Governance
Conflicts of interest 102-25 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 30-31
Foundational Elements  – Governance
Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-26 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 20-21
Foundational Elements  – Governance
Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 102-28 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 24-25
Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 102-29 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 21
Danaher at a Glance  – Sustainability at Danaher 
Foundational  Elements – Risk Oversight
Effectiveness of risk management processes 102-30 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 21
Foundational  Elements – Risk Oversight
Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 102-31 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 20
Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-32 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 26-27
Danaher at a Glance – Sustainability at DanaherREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report72GRI – General Disclosures - Governance (continued)
Description Code Response
Communicating critical concerns 102-33 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 85
Danaher Code of Conduct
Foundational Elements  – Ethics and Compliance at Danaher; Governance
Remuneration policies 102-35 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 37-75
People  – Personal Potential
Process for determining remuneration 102-36 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 37-75
Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration  102-37 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 38
People  – Personal Potential
Annual total compensation ratio 102-38 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 68
List of stakeholder groups 102-40 Sustainability Policy
Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-43 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 25-26
Danaher at a Glance – Sustainability at Danaher 
Foundational  Elements – Governance – Stakeholder Engagement Program
Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 102-45 2020 Form 10-K , p. 3-8; Exhibit 21.1
List of material topics 102-47 Danaher at a Glance – Sustainability at Danaher
Restatements of information 102-48 About This ReportREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report73GRI – General Disclosure – Reporting Practice
Description Code Response
Reporting period 102-50 2020
Date of most recent report 102-51 2020
Reporting cycle 102-52 Annual
Contact point for questions regarding the report 102-53 sustainability@danaher.com
GRI content index 102-55 Available here
GRI – Economic Performance
Description Code Response
Direct economic value generated and distributed 201-1 2020 Form 10-K , p. 58-116
Danaher at a Glance
Innovation
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 201-2 Foundational Elements  – Risk Oversight
Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 201-3 2020 Form 10-K , p. 95-101
GRI – Indirect Economic Impacts
Description Code Response
Infrastructure investments and services supported 203-1 Innovation  
People  – In Our Communities 
Significant indirect economic impacts 203-2 Innovation  
People  – Personal Potential; In Our Communities REPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report74GRI – Anti-Corruption
Description Code Response
Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 205-1 Foundational  Elements – Ethical Workplace; Risk Oversight
Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-2 Foundational  Elements – Ethical Workplace
GRI – Anti-Competitive Behavior
Description Code Response
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 206-1 2020 Form 10-K , p. 106-108
GRI - Tax
Description Code Response
Approach to tax 207-1 Global Tax Strategy
Sustainability Policy
Tax governance, control, and risk management 207-2 Global Tax Strategy
Sustainability Policy
Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax 207-3 Global Tax Strategy
Sustainability PolicyREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report75GRI – Energy
Description Code Response
Energy consumption within the organization 302-1 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Energy intensity 302-3 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Reduction of energy consumption 302-4 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics;  
DBS EHS Management Tools
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
GRI – Water and Effluents
Description Code Response
Interactions with water as a shared resource 303-1 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Innovation  – Environmental & Applied Solutions
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Water consumption 303-5 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data SummaryREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report76GRI – Emissions
Description Code Response
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-1 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-2 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
GHG emissions intensity 305-4 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Reduction of GHG emissions 305-5 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
GRI – Effluents and Waste
Description Code Response
Waste generated 306-3 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Waste diverted from disposal 306-4 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Waste directed to disposal 306-5 Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data SummaryREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report77GRI – Environmental Compliance
Description Code Response
Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 307-1 2020 Form 10-K , p. 34
GRI – Employment
Description Code Response
New employee hires and employee turnover 401-1 People  – Professional Potential
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-
time employees401-2 People  – Personal Potential
Parental leave 401-3 People  – Personal Potential
GRI – Occupational Health and Safety
Description Code Response
Occupational health and safety management system 403-1 Environment – Environment, Health and Safety
Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 403-2 Environment – Environment, Health and Safety
Promotion of worker health 403-6 Sustainability Policy
People  – Personal Potential; Human Rights
Work-related injuries 403-9 Environment  – Environment, Health and Safety
Sustainability & ESG Data SummaryREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report78GRI – Training and Education
Description Code Response
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 404-2 People  – Professional Potential
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 
reviews404-3 People  – Professional Potential
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
GRI – Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Description Code Response
Diversity of governance bodies and employees 405-1 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 16-17
People  – Diversity + Inclusion 
Foundational Elements  – Governance
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 405-2 People  – Personal Potential
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
GRI – Freedom of Association
Description Code Response
Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining may be at risk407-1 Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct
Danaher Statement on Slavery and Human Trafficking
Danaher Statement Re: California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010
People  – Human RightsREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report79GRI – Child Labor
Description Code Response
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 408-1 Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct
Sustainability Policy
Sustainable Supply Chain Policy
Danaher Statement on Slavery and Human Trafficking
Danaher Statement Re: California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010
People  – Human Rights
GRI – Forced or Compulsory Labor
Description Code Response
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 409-1 Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct
Sustainability Policy
Sustainable Supply Chain Policy
Danaher Statement on Slavery and Human Trafficking
Danaher Statement Re: California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010
People  – Human Rights
GRI – Public Policy
Description Code Response
Political contributions 415-1Archive of Political Expenditures
Sustainability Policy
Foundational Elements  – Political MattersREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report80GRI – Marketing and Labeling
Description Code Response
Requirements for product and service information and labeling 417-1Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct
Foundational Elements  – Ethical Workplace – Medical Device Product Quality
GRI – Socioeconomic Compliance
Description Code Response
Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 419-12020 Form 10-K , p. 34, 106-108
Foundational Elements  – Ethical Workplace – Medical Device Product QualityREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report81SASB
Standard Topic Metric Code Response
Medical Equipment & 
SuppliesProduct Safety Number of recalls issued, 
total units recalledHC-MS-250a.1 Foundational Elements  – Ethical Workplace – Medical Device Product Quality
Number of FDA enforcement 
actions taken in response to 
violations of current Good 
Manufacturing Practices 
(cGMP), by typeHC-MS-250a.4 Foundational Elements  – Ethical Workplace – Medical Device Product Quality
Ethical Marketing Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with 
false marketing claimsHC-MS-270a.1 Foundational Elements  – Ethical Workplace – Responsible Marketing to Customers and 
Patients
Description of code of ethics 
governing promotion of off-
label use of productsHC-MS-270a.2 Foundational Elements  – Ethical Workplace – Responsible Marketing to Customers and 
Patients
Supply Chain Continuity Planning Description of the 
management of risks 
associated with the use of 
critical materialsHC-MS-430a.3 Foundational Elements  – Supply Chain Sustainability
Sustainable Supply Chain Policy
Conflict Minerals Policy Statement
Trading Policy
Danaher Statement on Slavery and Human Trafficking
Danaher Statement Re: California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010
Business Ethics Description of code of ethics 
governing interactions with 
health care professionalsHC-MS-510a.2 Foundational Elements  – Ethical Workplace – Ethical Interactions with Healthcare 
Professionals; Responsible Marketing to Customers and PatientsREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report82SASB (continued)
Standard Topic Metric Code Response
Biotechnology & 
PharmaceuticalsAccess to Medicines Description of actions and 
initiatives to promote access 
to health care products 
for priority diseases and in 
priority countries as defined 
by the Access to Medicine 
IndexHC-BP-240a.1 Innovation  – Diagnostics – Improving Access to Healthcare in Developing Markets
Employee Recruitment, Development 
and Retention(1) Voluntary and (2) 
involuntary turnover rate 
for: (a) executives/senior 
managers, (b) midlevel 
managers, (c) professionals, 
and (d) all othersHC-BP-330a.2 People – Professional Potential
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Electrical and Electronic 
EquipmentEnergy Management (1) Total energy consumed, 
(2) percentage grid electricity, 
(3) percentage renewableRT-EE-130a.1 Environment  – Environment, Health and Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Hazardous Waste Management Amount of hazardous waste 
generated, percentage 
recycledRT-EE-150a.1 Environment  – Environment, Health and Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data SummaryREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report83SASB (continued)
Standard Topic Metric Code Response
Electrical and Electronic 
Equipment (continued)Business Ethics Description of policies and 
practices for prevention of: 
(1) corruption and bribery 
and (2) anti-competitive 
behaviorRT-EE-510a.1 Danaher Code of Conduct
Foundational Elements  – Ethics and Compliance at Danaher; Ethical Workplace
N/A Number of employees RT-EE-000.B 2020 Form 10-K , p. 9
Danaher at a Glance
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Industrial Machinery & 
GoodsEmployee Health & Safety (1) Total recordable incident 
rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, 
and (3) near miss frequency 
rate (NMFR)RT-IG-320a.1 Environment  – Environment, Health and Safety – Occupational Injury and Illness KPIs
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Hardware Employee Diversity & Inclusion Percentage of gender 
and racial/ethnic group 
representation for (1) 
management, (2) technical 
staff, and (3) all other 
employeesTC-HW-330a.1 People – Diversity + Inclusion – Diversity Goals and Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
N/A Area of manufacturing 
facilitiesTC-HW-000.B Environment  – Environment, Health and Safety – DBS EHS Management ToolsREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report84TCFD
Topic Description Response
Governance Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks 
and opportunities.2021 Climate Change CDP Response 
Danaher at a Glance – Sustainability at Danaher 
Foundational Elements  – Risk Oversight
Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning where such information is material.2021 Climate Change CDP Response 
Foundational Elements  – Risk Oversight
Risk Management Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-
related risks.2021 Climate Change CDP Response 
Foundational Elements  – Risk Oversight
Metrics and Targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant 
climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is 
material.2021 Climate Change CDP Response 
Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data SummaryREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report85UN Sustainable Development Goals Relevant to Danaher
Sustainable Development Goal Response
Goal 3 - Good Health and Well-Being 
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all agesDanaher at a Glance – Our Businesses
Innovation  
Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Goal 5 - Gender Equality 
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girlsPeople  – Personal Potential; Diversity + Inclusion; Human Rights; In Our Communities
Foundational Elements  – Governance
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Goal 6 - Clean Water and Sanitation 
Ensure access to water and sanitation for allDanaher at a Glance – Our Businesses – Environmental & Applied Solutions
Innovation  – Environmental & Applied Solutions
Goal 8 - Decent Work and Economic Growth 
Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and 
decent work for allDanaher at a Glance – Our Businesses
Innovation  
People  – Diversity + Inclusion
Goal 9 - Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 
Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and 
foster innovationDanaher at a Glance – Our Businesses
Innovation  
Goal 12 - Responsible Consumption and Production
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patternsInnovation  – Environmental and Applied Solutions 
Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics; DBS EHS Management 
Tools
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Goal 13 - Climate Action 
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impactsFrom Our CEO
Innovation  – Environmental and Applied Solutions
Environment  – Environment, Health & Safety – Danaher Global Environmental Metrics
Foundational Elements – Risk Oversight – Risks and Opportunities Related to Climate Change
Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Goal 14 - Life Below Water 
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resourcesDanaher at a Glance - Our Businesses – Environmental & Applied Solutions
Innovation – Environmental & Applied SolutionsREPORTING FRAMEWORKS INDEX2021 Danaher Sustainability Report86Appendix B: Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
Sky of Lights by Terri Moore, Pall associate
People  
 
EnvironmentFoundational Elements  
 
Financial Results87 
 
9091 
 
93
APPENDICES2021 Danaher Sustainability Report87
SUSTAINABILITY & ESG DATA SUMMARYPillar Category Metric Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal Timeframe
PeopleAssociate 
Demographics 
Results from continuing 
operationsTotal Associates (Global) # of associates 58,000  60,000 69,000 — —
North America # of associates 22,100 22,600 25,500 — —
% of total 38% 38% 37% — —
Western Europe # of associates 17 ,000 18,000 22,000 — —
% of total 29% 30% 32% — —
High Growth Markets # of associates 16,000 17 ,000 18,500 — —
% of total 28% 28% 27% — —
Other Developed Markets # of associates 3,000 2,500 3,000 — —
% of total 5% 4% 4% — —
Full Time Associates (Global) # of associates  56,500  58,000  67,000 — —
Part Time Associates (Global) # of associates  1,500  2,000  2,000 — —
Temporary Associates (Global) # of associates  1,500  1,600  1,500 — —
Unionized Associates (U.S., hourly-rated) # of associates — — 300 — —
Associate Tenure (Global Average) Years 9 8 8 — —
Countries With Danaher Locations Countries — — 65 — —
Languages Spoken by Associates Languages — — >20 — —
Internal Fill Rate Executives & Senior Leaders % of open roles filled internally 73% 74% 78% >75% Annual
Managers % of open roles filled internally 74% 75% 77% — —
Turnover Voluntary Turnover  % of associates 7.2% 7.0% 4.8% <5% Annual
Involuntary Turnover  % of associates 5.7% 5.2% 5.1% — —
Engagement Engagement  Index % 68% 72% 79% — —
Engagement Index Improvement vs. prior year Percentage points +3 +4 +7 — —
Ethics and Compliance Culture Score vs. Global Average of Survey Companies Percentage points — — +1 +5 2024
Diversity Index %
81%83% 88% — —
Inclusion Index % 82% 86% — —2021 Danaher Sustainability Report88
SUSTAINABILITY & ESG DATA SUMMARYPillar Category Metric Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal Timeframe
PeoplePay Equity U.S. Women Weighted Median Base Pay vs. Male Associates % — — 100% 100% Annual
U.S. Black, Asian and Hispanic/LatinX Weighted Median Base Pay vs. White 
Associates% — — >100% 100% Annual
Associate Resource 
Groups (ARGs)Asian Descent + Friends (US & Canada) # of members — — 2,700 — —
Black + Friends (US & Canada) # of members — — 1,300 — —
LatinX + Friends (US & Canada) # of members — — 1,600 — —
LGBTQ + Friends (US & Canada) # of members — — 1,000 — —
Women + Friends (US & Canada) # of members — — 5,700 — —
Diversity 
Representation Global Women % of total 36% 35% 36% 40% 2025
Executives & Senior Leaders % of total 24% 26% 29% — —
Managers % of total 28% 29% 31% — —
Individual Contributors % of total 37% 36% 37% — —
North America % of total 36% 36% 36% — —
Western Europe % of total 34% 34% 36% — —
High Growth Markets % of total 39% 35% 37% — —
Other Developed Markets % of total 25% 25% 27% — —
U.S. People of Color % of total 34% 33% 33% 38% 2025
Executives & Senior Leaders % of total 18% 18% 18% — —
Managers % of total 25% 25% 27% — —
Individual Contributors % of total 36% 35% 35% — —
U.S. Associates # of associates 24,300 21,300 24,000 — —
White % of total 61% 61% 61% — —
Executives & Senior Leaders % of total 76% 76% 76% — —
Managers % of total 71% 71% 69% — —
Individual Contributors % of total 59% 59% 60% — —2021 Danaher Sustainability Report89
SUSTAINABILITY & ESG DATA SUMMARYPillar Category Metric Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal Timeframe
PeopleDiversity 
Representation
(continued)Asian % of total 13% 14% 15% — —
Executives & Senior Leaders % of total 11% 11% 11% — —
Managers % of total 12% 12% 13% — —
Individual Contributors % of total 13% 14% 15% — —
Hispanic/LatinX % of total 12% 12% 11% — —
Executives & Senior Leaders % of total 4% 4% 4% — —
Managers % of total 8% 8% 8% — —
Individual Contributors % of total 13% 12% 12% — —
Black % of total 6% 5% 6% — —
Executives & Senior Leaders % of total 2% 3% 3% — —
Managers % of total 3% 3% 3% — —
Individual Contributors % of total 7% 6% 6% — —
American Indian/Alaskan Native % of total <1% <1% <1% — —
Executives & Senior Leaders % of total <1% <1% <1% — —
Managers % of total <1% <1% <1% — —
Individual Contributors % of total <1% <1% <1% — —
Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander % of total <1% <1% 1% — —
Executives & Senior Leaders % of total <1% <1% <1% — —
Managers % of total <1% <1% <1% — —
Individual Contributors % of total <1% <1% 1% — —
Two or More % of total 2% 2% 2% — —
Not Specified % of total 5% 6% 5% — —2021 Danaher Sustainability Report90
SUSTAINABILITY & ESG DATA SUMMARYPillar Category Metric Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal Timeframe
EnvironmentEnvironmental
MetricsTotal Energy Use GJ —  3,770,590  3,696,540 — —
Total Energy Use (intensity) GJ per million USD revenue — 212.8 193.7 — —
Reduction % — — -9.0%  y/y -15% 2024 vs. 2019
Direct Energy Use GJ —  2,079,680  1,940,630 — —
Indirect Energy Use GJ —  1,690,910  1,755,900 — —
Total GHG Emissions, Scope 1 and 2 Metric tons —  313,870  312,860 — —
Total GHG Emissions, Scope 1 and 2 (intensity) Metric tons CO2e per million USD revenue — 17.7 16.4 — —
Reduction % — — -7.5% y/y -15% 2024 vs. 2019
GHG Emissions, Scope 1 Metric tons —  127,680  116,770 — —
GHG Emissions, Scope 1 (intensity) Metric tons CO2e per million USD revenue — 7.2 6.1 — —
GHG Emissions, Scope 2 Metric tons —  186,200  196,090 — —
GHG Emissions, Scope 2 (intensity) Metric tons CO2e per million USD revenue — 10.5 10.3 — —
Total Waste Generated Metric tons —  44,230  48,150 — —
Total Waste Generated (intensity) Metric tons per million USD revenue — 2.5 2.5 — —
Non-hazardous/Non-regulated Waste Generated Metric tons —  25,820  27,620 — —
Non-hazardous/Non-regulated Waste Diverted From Disposal Metric tons —  15,670  17,420 — —
Non-hazardous/Non-regulated Waste Sent to Landfill or Incineration Metric tons —  10,150  10,200 — —
% of Non-hazardous/Non-regulated Waste Sent to Landfill or 
Incineration% of Total Waste Generated — 39.3% 36.9% — —
Reduction % — — -6.1%  y/y -15% 2024 vs. 2019
Hazardous/Regulated Waste Generated Metric tons —  18,410  20,530 — —
Hazardous/Regulated Waste Sent to Landfill or Incineration Metric tons —  7,860  8,880 — —
Hazardous/Regulated Waste Diverted From Disposal Metric tons —  10,550  11,650 — —
Total Water Use Cubic meters —  3,727,090  4,005,070 — —
Total Water Use (intensity) Cubic meters per million USD revenue — 210.3 209.9 — —2021 Danaher Sustainability Report91
SUSTAINABILITY & ESG DATA SUMMARYPillar Category Metric Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal Timeframe
EnvironmentHealth and Safety 
PerformanceTotal Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) See accompanying "Notes" 0.79 0.68 0.54 — —
Reduction % — — -21% y/y — —
Days Away Restricted or Transferred (DART) See accompanying "Notes" 0.57 0.47 0.34 — —
Reduction % — — -28%  y/y — —
EHS Management 
Program CertificationsTotal Manufacturing & Assembly Sites (Globally) # of sites —  —  177 — —
ISO 14001 Certified # of sites —  —  50 — —
ISO 45001 Certified # of sites —  —  17 — —
ISO 50001 Certified # of sites —  —  6 — —
Foundational 
ElementsSpeak Up! Compliance 
ReportingSpeak Up! Reports Received and Investigated # of reports ~750 >850 >850 — —
Speak Up! Reports Received per 100 Danaher Associates # of reports per 100 associates 1.3 1.5 1.3 >1.0 Annual
Self-Identifying Reporters % 45% 42% 46% >40% Annual
Code of Conduct In-scope Associates Who Completed Code of Conduct and Related Certification % of total 98% 98% 98% — —
Board of Directors Female Directors # of Directors — — 4 — —
% of total — — 31% — —
Racially/Ethnically Diverse Directors # of Directors — — 3 — —
% of total — — 23% — —
Directors Born Outside of the U.S. # of Directors — — 3 — —
% of total — — 23% — —
Independent Directors Under 50 Years Old # of Directors — — 2 — —
% of total — — 20% — —MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT QUALITYManagement 
Program CertificationISO 13485 Certification % of total in-scope facilities — — 100% 100% Annual
FDA Registered Sites 
Classified by highest-risk 
device produced at siteTotal # of sites — 56 53 — —
Life Sciences Segment # of sites — 19 17 — —
High (III) # of sites — 0 0 — —
Medium (II) # of sites — 10 9 — —
Low (I) # of sites — 9 8 — —2021 Danaher Sustainability Report92
SUSTAINABILITY & ESG DATA SUMMARYPillar Category Metric Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal Timeframe
Foundational 
Elements
MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT QUALITYFDA Registered Sites 
(continued)   
Classified by highest-risk 
device produced at siteDiagnostics Segment # of sites — 36 35 — —
High (III) # of sites — 2 2 — —
Medium (II) # of sites — 26 24 — —
Low (I) # of sites — 8 9 — —
Environmental & Applied Solutions Segment - Water Quality Platform # of sites — 1 1 — —
High (III) # of sites — 0 0 — —
Medium (II) # of sites — 1 1 — —
Low (I) # of sites — 0 0 — —
Environmental & Applied Solutions Segment - Product Identification Platform # of sites — 0 0 — —
High (III) # of sites — 0 0 — —
Medium (II) # of sites — 0 0 — —
Low (I) # of sites — 0 0 — —
FDA Inspection 
ResultsConsent Decrees # of decrees 0 0 0 0 Annual
Warning Letters # of letters 0 0 0 0 Annual
483 Observations # of observations 1 4 0 0 Annual
FDA Recalls Total FDA Recalls # of recalls 29 17 23 — —
Class I # of recalls 2 0 0 — —
Class II # of recalls 26 17 22 — —
Class III # of recalls 1 0 1 — —
FDA Initiated # of recalls 0 0 0 — —
Seizures/Consent Decrees # of seizures/decrees 0 0 0 — —2021 Danaher Sustainability Report93
SUSTAINABILITY & ESG DATA SUMMARYPillar Category Metric Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal Timeframe
Financial 
ResultsRevenue 
Results from  
continuing operationsDanaher USD billion 17.0 17.9 22.3 — —
Life Sciences Segment USD billion 6.5 7.0 10.6 — —
Diagnostics Segment USD billion 6.3 6.6 7.4 — —
Environmental & Applied Solutions Segment USD billion 4.3 4.4 4.3 — —
Supply Chain Annual Spend USD billion — — 8.2 — —
Global Suppliers # of suppliers — — >80,000 — —
Notes to Sustainability & ESG Data Summary
• Unless otherwise set forth below, all data presented is as of December 31 of the referenced year, 
unless the nature of the metric is such that it covers the entire year.  Certain components may not 
sum due to rounding. A dash indicates that the particular metric is not provided for the indicated 
time period (or in the case of “Goals,” that there is no public goal with respect to such metric).
• Danaher completed its disposition of its Envista business on December 18, 2019. The 2018 data 
under the categories “Internal Fill,” “Turnover,” “Engagement,” “Diversity Representation,” “Health 
and Safety Performance” and “Code of Conduct” all include Envista. All other data in the table 
excludes Envista.
• All data under the category “Diversity Representation” includes only full-time and part-time 
associates. 
• “Executives & Senior Leaders,” “Managers” and “Individual Contributors” are mutually exclusive 
categories and are the three highest-level categories we use to classify all full-time and part-time 
associates.• “Total Recordable Incident Rate” is defined as the number of work-related injuries or illness cases 
serious enough to require treatment beyond first aid, per 100 associates.
• “Days Away, Restricted or Transferred” is defined as the number of work-related injuries or illness 
cases that result in an associate working with physical restrictions, being away from work or 
unable to do their job or transferring to other work, per 100 associates.
• Under “FDA Registered Sites of Danaher’s Subsidiaries,” sites are classified according to the 
highest-risk device produced at the site.
• The three racially/ethnically diverse members of Danaher’s Board of Directors include a Black 
director and directors of Middle Eastern and North African descent.2021 Danaher Sustainability Report94Contact Us
GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE
c/o Corporate Secretary  
2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 800W 
Washington, DC 20037
Phone: 202.828.0850  
Fax: 202.828.0860
www.danaher.comSUSTAINABILITY
This Sustainability Report, along with all past reports, can be 
viewed in the Downloads section of sustainability.danaher.com. 
Additional inquiries can be directed to Danaher’s corporate office 
or Danaher’s Sustainability contact at sustainability@danaher.com  