2016-17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
04 06 10 14 18 20
GUIDING  
PRINCIPLESIMPROVING 
QUALITY OF 
LIFE THROUGH  
INNOVATIONASSOCIATE AND 
COMMUNITY  
ENGAGEMENTENVIRONMENT, 
HEALTH AND  
SAFETY  
STEWARDSHIPINTEGRITY AND 
COMPLIANCECORPORATE
GOVERNANCEThis has been a year of transformation for Danaher, as we prepared for and  
navigated the spin-off of Fortive Corporation into an independent public  
company, welcomed Pall Corporation and other new businesses into the  
Danaher family, and began an exciting next chapter with the articulation of  
Our Shared Purpose: Helping Realize Life’s Potential.
Our Shared Purpose inspires us to focus all that we do for the benefit of our 
shareholders, the development of our associates, and the good of our  
customers, our communities and our planet. This 2016-2017 Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) Report, the follow-up to our 2014-2015 report, is an ideal 
opportunity to showcase it in action. 
As you know, Danaher’s tradition of CSR extends far beyond the publication of 
our first official report two years ago. For more than three decades, it has been 
woven into the fabric of our Core Values, the Danaher Business System (DBS) 
and our team-oriented culture, which set a high bar for professional growth, 
innovation and continuous improvement in the service of our stakeholders. 
On a daily basis, our businesses improve health and safety around the world. 
Our products and services assist in life-saving research and diagnostics, protect 
consumer packaging and contribute to environmental stewardship in substan -
tive ways. In these pages, you’ll see how Laetus helps protect consumers around 
the world by making it easy and efficient to comply with pharmaceutical tracing From Our CEOBACK TO COVER
regulations. You’ll read about Leica Microsystems’ innovative, award-winning 
packaging that reduced its carbon footprint by approximately 60 tons per year. 
And you’ll learn about Radiometer’s unique approach to providing healthcare 
teams in developing countries access to important diagnostic tools. .  
We carry this important work forward, as we have always done, with a focus on 
the highest standards of honesty and integrity at every level of our organization,  
and a deep commitment to safe working conditions for every associate. We  
are placing a greater emphasis on complementing our external performance 
with internal initiatives that ensure supportive, diverse and inclusive work  
environments worldwide—places where our associates can be themselves,  
engage deeply with their work and seize opportunities to realize their own  
potential through professional development. 
We are proud of our progress since the publication of our last CSR report, but at 
Danaher, our dedication to continuous improvement means that we can always 
do better.  We will keep pushing ourselves, in the spirit of Our Shared Purpose, 
Core Values and DBS, to bring lasting and meaningful value to the world. This is 
just the beginning. 
Thank you for your support as we work together to Help Realize  
Life’s Potential.
THOMAS P. JOYCE, JR.  
President and Chief Executive Officer 
 
December 2016
2
BACK TO COVER
Company Overview
We are a science and technology innovator committed to solving  
our customers’ most complex challenges, and improving quality of  
life around the world. 
Life Sciences Every day, scientists around the world are studying chronic diseases and 
infections at the cellular level to understand causes, identify treatments and test new drugs and 
vaccines. Danaher’s Life Sciences companies help make this leading-edge scientific research 
possible at clinical research facilities, academic institutions and government agencies. Our  
capabilities extend beyond research to include the world’s most advanced filtration, separation 
and purification technologies, which help power the creation of biopharmaceuticals, microelec -
tronics and more.
Diagnostics Wherever health care happens—from a family physician’s office to leading 
trauma hospitals, laboratories and critical care units—Danaher’s Diagnostics businesses help 
safeguard patient health and improve diagnostic confidence with the most advanced tools and 
software available. As our global population expands, we help the medical field keep pace through 
powerful preventative and predictive care and automated processes.
Dental If you have ever sat in a dentist’s chair, your experience was likely made better by  
Danaher businesses. Our precision tools and powerful lights help clinicians work accurately and 
efficiently. Our software powers comprehensive, digital diagnostics and treatment planning to 
keep teeth and gums healthy. Our advanced restoratives, implants and orthodontic offerings help 
correct smiles quickly and safely. Danaher’s Dental companies are committed to making dental 
care increasingly safe, effective, comfortable and accessible around the globe.
Environmental & Applied Solutions From innovative consumer packaging to drink -
ing water purification, Danaher’s Environmental & Applied Solutions businesses help protect 
precious resources and keep our global food and water supplies safe. Our Product Identification 
businesses touch consumer, industrial and pharmaceutical products throughout the supply 
chain to help ensure freshness, consistency, and accurate  labeling and tracking. Our Water  
Quality businesses deliver precision instrumentation and  advanced purification technology to 
help analyze, treat and manage the world’s water, from  municipal and wastewater treatment  
facilities to lakes, streams and oceans.20OPERATING COMPANIES MORE THAN 4
SEGMENTS
$3.3
   BILLION
$4.8
   BILLION
$2.7
   BILLION
$3.6
   BILLIONOUR BUSINESSES
All data in this report are from continuing operations unless otherwise noted. Data from continuing operations excludes 
all data related to the Fortive Corporation business that Danaher spun-off in 2016 and the Communications business that 
Danaher split-off in 2015.3
BACK TO COVER
WORLDWIDE FOOTPRINTANNUAL SALES  
BLUE SHADING REPRESENTS COUNTRIES WITH DANAHER OFFICES 2013  
$12.4B 2014
$12.9B 2015
$14.4B4
BACK TO COVERGuiding Principles
QUALITY
DELIVERY
COST
INNOVATION
CORE VALUES  
Our five Core Values—The Best Team Wins; Cus -
tomers Talk, We Listen; Kaizen is Our Way of Life; 
Innovation Defines Our Future; and We Compete 
for Shareholders—are centered around people and 
serve as our steadfast foundation. Every day, we 
challenge ourselves to put the best team on the 
field, understand our customers’ implicit and explicit 
needs and exceed their expectations in innovative 
ways, strive to be better, and ultimately create value 
for our shareholders.
The Danaher Business System 
(DBS) is our proven system for 
achieving success and it drives 
every aspect of our culture and 
performance. We use it to guide 
what we do, measure how well we 
execute, and create options for do -
ing even better—even by improv -
ing DBS itself. Fueled by Danaher’s 
Core Values, the DBS engine 
drives us through a never-ending 
cycle of change and improvement: 
exceptional PEOPLE develop 
outstanding PLANS and execute 
those using world-class tools to 
construct sustainable PROCESS -
ES, resulting in superior PERFOR -
MANCE.  Superior performance 
and high expectations attract 
exceptional people, who continue 
the cycle. Guiding all efforts is a 
simple philosophy rooted in four 
customer-facing priorities: Quality, 
Delivery, Cost, and Innovation.THE DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEMCorporate Social Responsibility is deeply ingrained in Danaher’s culture  
and work, and has been for decades. Our decentralized operating structure 
gives our operating companies the flexibility and freedom to run their  
businesses in ways that most effectively serve their customers; however,  
we are united by our deeply embraced Core Values, Shared Purpose and  
Danaher Business System:
SHARED  PURPOSE  
Our Shared Purpose—Helping Realize Life’s Po -
tential—represents our commitment to helping our 
customers achieve amazing things and the high 
standards by which we measure our own success. 
We innovate forward-looking technologies to solve 
our customers’ most complex challenges. The im -
pact of Our Shared Purpose goes beyond Danaher. 
It’s an opportunity for each of us to make a mean -
ingful contribution to something larger  
than ourselves.5
BACK TO COVERImproving Quality of Life 
Through Innovation
Associate and  
Community Engagement
Environment, Health and 
Safety Stewardship
Integrity and Compliance
Corporate GovernanceWithin this report, we cover the elements of corporate social responsibility that 
matter to our stakeholders—our associates, customers and shareholders:6
BACK TO COVERImproving Quality of Life Through Innovation
When Danaher invests in innovation, not only do we seek to gain competitive 
advantage in our markets, we meaningfully improve quality of life around  
the world. Our businesses are dedicated to advancing life-saving research, 
improving health and safety, and promoting environmental stewardship  
by reducing packaging waste, protecting our water supply and defending 
fragile ecosystems.
COMBATING COUNTERFEIT MEDICINE
The lives and safety of consumers and patients worldwide are threatened by an enormous increase in forged drugs. The 
World Health Organization estimates that over 10% of the medicines consumed in developing nations may be counterfeit.  
A 2015 INTERPOL-coordinated global operation targeting the criminal networks behind the sale of fake medicines resulted 
in 156 arrests and the seizure of almost 21 million illicit and counterfeit medicines, worth $81 million.
Many governments have reacted by enacting laws that set more stringent traceability standards, but how pharmaceutical 
manufacturers implement these regulations differs widely. Laetus is working to protect consumers by making compli -
ance with these regulations as easy and practical as possible. Laetus Secure Track & Trace Solutions can be used over the 
entire pharmaceutical supply chain to mark, code, track and trace drugs, from initial production to the consumer. Laetus 
solutions are modular and flexible enough to help pharmaceutical manufacturers comply with any level of regulation from 
simple marking and coding to tamper-protective packaging and traceability. 7
BACK TO COVER
ADVANCING BREAST CANCER BIOPSIES
Leica Biosystems believes 
that “A Patient’s Diagno -
sis Begins with the Right 
Tissue.” Our Mammotome 
breast biopsy systems help  
clinicians accurately diagnose breast cancer through 
minimally invasive procedures that are more com -
fortable for patients. Over 20 years after introducing 
the first vacuum-assisted breast biopsy device, the 
company’s innovations continue to improve biopsy 
tissue quality and processing, with the future vision 
of enabling histologists and pathologists to provide 
patients a confident diagnosis within 24 hours of 
their initial biopsy. R&D AS A PERCENT  
OF SALES6.0%
PATENT  
FILINGS IN  
2015: 837AGGREGATE  
NUMBER  
OF PATENTS  
AT YEAR END  
2015: 1 2, 1 80 8
BACK TO COVERIMPROVING QUALITY OF LIFE THROUGH INNOVATION continued
A MODERN MONITORING NETWORK IN THE INDIAN OCEAN
OTT Hydromet has more than 60,000 environmental monitoring stations in operation around the globe, providing real-time, 
early warnings of approaching floods that can help save lives and minimize property damage. 
In Sri Lanka, public authorities depend on hydro-meteorological data in their day-to-day work, yet up-to-date data is often 
lacking or unreliable. As a result, a new hydro-meteorological monitoring network, including 122 stations powered by OTT 
technology, is being updated and extended across the country. OTT’s technology is helping keep communities safe by 
providing public decision-makers and scientists with the data they need to forecast, analyze and mitigate flood and drought 
conditions, and to operate dams and water infrastructure in extreme hydrological events. 60,000
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING  
STATIONS IN OPERATIO N PROVIDING  
REAL-TIME, EARLY WARNINGS OF 
APPROACHING FLOODS9
BACK TO COVERDRIVING  
EFFICIENCY 
THROUGHOUT 
THE PRODUCT 
LIFE CYCLE
For select products, Pall  
seeks to drive environmental  
efficiency throughout a 
product’s lifecycle. In the 
product development phase, 
Pall estimates the energy and 
materials used to manufac -
ture the product, and uses the 
results to drive greater product 
design efficiencies. In the 
marketing phase, Pall works 
with customers to specifically 
model the amount of energy 
savings and greenhouse gas 
emissions avoided by using 
Pall filters. Even after product 
launch, Pall continues to drive 
efficiency by offering tools to 
minimize the amount of water 
and energy consumed in using 
Pall products.
IMPROVING  
OUTCOMES FOR DENTAL  
IMPLANT PATIENTS
Nobel Biocare’s innovative, implant-based dental resto -
rations integrate with a patient’s natural jawbone, forming 
a strong and long-lasting foundation for replacement teeth 
that look, feel and function like natural teeth.  To help ensure 
that patients have adequate bone to accept a dental im -
plant, Nobel Biocare recently introduced the creos™ xeno -
gain range of bone substitutes. Each creos™ xenogain option 
acts as a slowly resorbing scaffold, maintaining space for 
bone regeneration to help build a basis for successful dental 
implant placement. 
REDUCING CARBON  
FOOTPRINT THROUGH  
PACKAGING DESIGN
Leica Microsystems’ Singapore team won the 2015  
Singapore Packaging Star Award and the 2015 Asia  
Star Award for its innovative new packaging design  
for the SPIDER stereomicroscope. The redesigned 
packaging eliminated secondary materials such as  
tape and filler, incorporated 100% recycled polyeth -
ylene foam and reduced package volume by 50%.  
The reductions in packaging materials and related 
improvements in transportation efficiency yield an  
estimated carbon footprint reduction of 60 tons per 
year. The new packaging is more ergonomic for associ -
ates, more durable, easier to unpack, and results in  
less waste for our customers. 
REDUCED PACKAGE 
VOLUME BY 50%
23
F O A M  
PIECES11
F O A M  
PIECESREDUCED TO10
BACK TO COVERAssociate and Community Engagement
At Danaher, we are committed to serving our businesses, our associates 
and the communities in which they work.
We invest in the growth and development of our people and take mean -
ingful action toward building a culture of diversity and inclusion. We build 
the best team by developing leaders at all levels of our organization,  
recognizing outstanding performance and shaping our culture to meet 
our stakeholders’ needs. We seek out a wide range of unique experiences, 
perspectives and talents, ensuring that diverse voices and viewpoints are 
heard and celebrated. 
We extend our impact outside of Danaher by supporting a range of  
science and technology education, healthcare research and disaster 
relief causes that align with our business goals to improve quality of life 
worldwide. In addition, Danaher associates around the world take active 
roles in advancing causes close to their hearts. From blood drives and 
fundraisers to service days and awareness campaigns, we are proud of 
what our associates do to make a difference. 
UNDERSTANDING  
AND REWARDING  
PERFORMANCE
Our Performance for Growth Cycle (P4G) 
enables managers to drive business per -
formance while developing and rewarding 
associates. This critical business process 
uses Danaher’s Core Values and strate -
gic priorities, as well as each operating 
company’s particular tactical objec -
tives, to determine how each associate’s 
performance is evaluated. At the start of 
each annual cycle, managers work with 
associates to clearly define what they 
need to accomplish and how to achieve 
those objectives. The cycle is completed 
through regular and meaningful engage -
ment with associates to track progress, 
and recognize achievements. 
11
BACK TO COVERSUPPORTING PROFESSIONAL GROWTH AND  
DEVELOPING OUR FUTURE LEADERS
Outstanding performance results from a team of engaged and empowered associ -
ates. At the heart of this is outstanding leadership. We are building leaders for today 
and the future by developing associates’ skills in all stages of their careers through 
extraordinary personal and professional growth and career opportunities. Dana -
her’s unique structure allows us to offer our associates a wide variety of experiential 
learning, including job placement across our operating companies, cross-functional 
DBS events, and projects that span our operating companies. We supplement these 
offerings with additional, formal development programs:
CAREER HUB.  Our internal marketplace for new jobs helps match associates’ inter -
ests and passions with dynamic and challenging career opportunities throughout 
the company. 
LEADERSHIP TRAINING.   We tailor our programs to strengthen defined, critical 
leadership competencies for associates at all levels, from individual team members 
to Presidents. For example, our Building Inclusive Leaders and Team program  
engages associates to promote diversity and inclusion in the workplace. 
DEVELOPMENT FOR GROWTH  (D4G). This program integrates P4G, our cross-op -
erating company talent management tool with our Leadership Training programs to 
help managers work with associates to build effective career development plans.NUMBER OF  
WORLDWIDE ASSOCIATES  
AT YEAR END 2015: 
59,000
% OF ASSOCIATES WHO  
RECEIVED A PERFORMANCE  
REVIEW IN 2015: 
93%
2015 ASSOCIATE  
ENGAGEMENT SURVEY  
PARTICIPATION: 
94%
IMPROVEMENT IN  
ASSOCIATE ENGAGEMENT  
FAVORABILITY RATING FROM 
2013 TO 2015
(as measured by Associate  
Engagement Survey)  +6%
IMPROVEMENT IN  
SUPERVISOR EFFECTIVENESS 
RATING FROM  
2013 TO 2015   
(as measured by Associate  
Engagement Survey): +6% ~
REALIZING  
PROFESSIONAL  
POTENTIAL 
THROUGH  
MENTORING
ChemTreat’s Women’s Forum is 
designed to help women overcome 
the unique challenges they face in 
the workplace. Open to associates of 
all genders, the forum offers a sup -
portive space for women of diverse 
backgrounds and achievements to 
come together to discuss their ideas, 
accomplishments, aspirations and 
challenges. ChemTreat also recogniz -
es that mentorship is a critical com -
ponent of professional development 
and facilitates dedicated mentor 
circles for women every 4-6 weeks. 
EACH YEAR ALMOST 
6,000  
of our associates  
participate in formal  
Leadership Training through a 
Danaher-facilitated  
program. These programs  
supplement the courses and  
programs delivered and  
facilitated by our  
operating companies. 
12
BACK TO COVER
ADVANCING OUR WORK THROUGH  
THE DANAHER FOUNDATION
In addition to our operating companies’ charitable contributions and community 
engagement activities, the Danaher Foundation provides direct financial support 
to the following areas to advance our vision of improving quality of life around  
the world:  
STEM EDUCATION.   We are helping to prepare the next generation of scientific 
leaders by advancing science, technology, engineering and mathematics  
(STEM) education.
HEALTHCARE RESEARCH AND DISCOVERY.   We extend our businesses’  
efforts to advance healthcare research and discovery around the world with 
direct charitable support.
DIVERSITY.   We are building a pool of strong future teams and leaders by  
supporting educational outreach programs that identify, grow and sustain  
diverse talent.
DISASTER PREPAREDNESS AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.   With a special 
focus on communities where our businesses operate, we aid in recovery efforts 
when natural disasters strike or other immediate needs arise.ASSOCIATE AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT continued
Amount distributed  
through the Danaher  
Scholarship Program since 
2004 to help fund the  
pursuit of higher education 
for our associates and  
their families: 
>$2.5
MILLION 
WORKING TOGETHER TO REBUILD A COMMUNITY
In 2016, a wildfire swept through the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan, destroying homes and 
buildings, and prompting the largest wildfire evacuation in Albertan history. Our SCIEX Canada office came to -
gether to support the community, many of whom lost everything as a result of the massive fires. Through a silent 
auction, raffle drawings, a barbeque and other fundraising activities, the team raised more than $10,000 for the Red 
Cross Alberta Fires Appeal to qualify for a matching donation from the Governments of Canada and Alberta. The 
Danaher Foundation supplemented these fundraising efforts with an additional $10,000 contribution toward Red 
Cross relief efforts in the area.13
BACK TO COVER
DANAHER’S DENTAL BUSINESSES RECOGNIZE THAT HEALTHY MOUTHS PROVIDE A 
FOUNDATION FOR HEALTHIER BODIES. OUR TEAMS TAKE A STRONG INTEREST IN 
PROVIDING DENTAL EDUCATION, RESOURCES AND SUPPORT TO THE COMMUNITIES 
THAT NEED IT MOST:
KAVO KERR GROUP  volunteered time and materials to 
support the Las Vegas, Nevada homeless population 
as a part of the 6th Annual Impact Day. The program’s 
health fair featured the NOMAD portable intra-oral 
scanner and offered free oral cancer screening, fluoride 
varnish and oral care demonstrations. Together, 40 
volunteers served more than 350 clients.
FOR THE 8TH YEAR IN A ROW , DEXIS partnered with 
TeamSmile® to help underserved children in commu -
nities across the United States obtain free screenings, 
treatment and dental education. DEXIS provides  
volunteers, funding and systems, such as DEXIS™  
Platinum sensors, CariVu™ caries detection and  
DEXcam™ intra-oral cameras. 
EXPANDING  
ACCESS TO ADVANCED  
DIAGNOSTICS
Radiometer strives to improve global health -
care by supplying blood gas analyzers and 
related products to help caregivers around 
the world provide patients with accurate, fast 
and easy diagnoses. Radiometer’s team takes 
great pride in finding new ways to improve 
patient treatment in less privileged parts of 
the world and enhanced those efforts with 
the development of its Access to Healthcare 
program in 2015. The program enables sales 
of reconditioned, used instruments in markets 
that would otherwise have limited access to 
such technology, such as the Philippines, 
Serbia, Brazil, Russia and Iraq.
Danaher earned a  
perfect score of 100% 
on the 2016 Human 
Rights Campaign  
Corporate Equality 
Index and the distinction as one of the 
“Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality,” 
matching the perfect 100% scores we  
received in 2015 and 2014.>55,000MAKING DENTAL CARE ACCESSIBLE
KERR HAS PARTNERED  with 
the University of Buffalo School 
of Dental Medicine to enhance 
dental students’ clinical educa -
tions and bring comprehensive 
dental care to the underserved 
community of San Francisco de 
Macoris, Dominican Republic. 
For the last two years, Kerr has 
donated supplies and financial 
support to help send dental stu -
dents and faculty on service trips 
to treat the community.
NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS  
PARTICIPATING IN DANAHER  
DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS AS OF  
YEAR-END 2015: 
14
BACK TO COVER
Environment, Health and Safety Stewardship
Keeping our associates safe has been our top priority for decades.  
 We build safer, healthier work environments and practices through our  
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) programs, which we continuously 
improve using DBS. In 2015, Danaher introduced 4E, a DBS-based frame -
work for managing EHS issues. This framework enables our associates  
to identify, assess and control hazards related to the 4Es: ergonomics, 
energetics, exposures and environment. 
We are implementing 4E worldwide via important DBS processes like  
kaizen events (events that bring together associates from various depart -
ments to examine a problem, propose solutions and implement changes)  
and the management of change process (our approach to managing  
transitions and projects that impact our facilities and operations). 
We designed our “Stop, Think and Speak Up” program to improve  
associate awareness of and involvement in managing EHS issues. Our  
associates are required to complete an EHS training course annually 
that teaches the importance of “Stop, Think and Speak Up,” and a  
number of our operating companies have made the program a  
centerpiece of their EHS efforts. 
WORKING TOWARD ZERO LANDFILL STATUS
 
Videojet has established the Solid Green Program to reduce its carbon footprint 
and achieve zero landfill status for its Wood Dale, Illinois facility. Educational 
campaigns and visual reminders help raise awareness and personal involvement 
around “going green.” Teams have re-engineered packaging to be foam-free; 
worked with suppliers to return and re-purpose inbound packaging; reduced 
printing and defaulted to double-sided copies; changed to biodegradable 
containers and utensils in the cafeteria; and implemented off-site composting. 
Videojet has also invested in infrastructure that improves energy efficiency and 
reduces water consumption, such as automated low-flow restroom fixtures. The 
initiatives in Wood Dale have been so successful, reducing solid waste going to 
landfill by 92% since 2013, that Videojet intends to implement the processes in all 
of its manufacturing plants globally.
Our “First Safety” mantra is more than a slogan 
— it is a discipline we live every day.  
We strive to minimize our carbon footprint of all 
our activities, products and how they are used.
We strive to prepare for every contingency  
to maintain continuous support for our customers.We take our  responsibility for  future generations  personally. 
SOLID WASTE GOING TO LANDFILL REDUCED BY 92% SINCE 201315
BACK TO COVER
Danaher’s new 39,300 square foot office complex in Shanghai, China, which opened in 2016, brings together over 2,000  
Danaher associates under one roof. It not only provides better collaboration opportunities for our associates in China, but 
offers a healthier work environment. The office was designed with environmental sensitivity and associate health in mind, 
providing greater access to the outdoors and environmentally friendly landscaping. Danaher also invested in associate 
well-being with features such as ergonomic office furniture and advanced air filtration systems that purify, sanitize and 
ionize the internal air, removing airborne pollutants such as smog, smoke and viruses. ONE SITE, ONE FAMILY16
BACK TO COVERLearn more about our EHS Policy by going to  
www.danaher.com/EHS_Policy.ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY STEWARDSHIP continued
2015  
SAFETY &  
HEALTH  
INCIDENT  
RATES
(from continuing operations) 
The metrics on this page includes all reported 
data from Danaher sites.LOST DAY RATE 
(number of days an associate 
missed work due to work-related 
injuries or illnesses, per 100  
associates working a full year):8.09DAYS AWAY, RESTRICTED OR 
JOB TRANSFER CASE RATE 
(Number of work-related injuries or 
illnesses serious enough to cause 
an associate to miss one or more 
work days or to have one or more 
work days of restricted duty or  
job transfer, per 100 associates 
working a full year):0.65RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE
(Number of work-related injuries or 
illnesses serious enough to require 
treatment beyond first aid, per 100 
associates working a full year):
1.0525   NO  
LOST TIME  
INCIDENTS
FOR
YEARS  17
BACK TO COVER
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY STEWARDSHIP continued
RECOGNIZING A  
MILESTONE SAFETY RECORD
In 2016, ChemTreat’s Nederland, Texas plant celebrated 25 
years of no “lost time incidents.” Like all Danaher operating 
companies, ChemTreat’s top priority is safety in the work -
place, and the team achieved this exceptional milestone by:  
REQUIRING  
RIGOROUS SAFETY  
TRAINING FOR ALL  
NEW ASSOCIATES  
AS PART OF  
THE ONBOARDING  
PROCESSEnsuring that responsibility 
for following and  
enforcing safe work  
practices is shared by  
everyone, not just  
safety managers
Requiring near 
misses to be  
reported by  
everyone, to  
immediately 
identify unsafe 
behaviors and 
conditions, and 
address potential 
problems before 
they escalateContinually using  
DBS tools, such as kaizens,  
action plans, and 5S, as well as  
a focus on ergonomics, to  
identify and address issues,  
sustain positive change and  
prevent future incidents
Since Danaher published its last CSR report in 2014, our portfolio of businesses has undergone a fundamental transformation as 
a result of our spin-off of the Fortive Corporation businesses, split-off of our Communications businesses and acquisition of Pall 
Corporation, among other acquisitions. We have elected to not to include in this report historical metrics for water and energy usage 
and waste generation in light of the challenges of reliably tracking these metrics during the course of these fundamental portfolio 
changes and the fact that such historical data would not accurately represent the operating profile of our current portfolio.18
BACK TO COVER
Integrity and Compliance
Danaher is committed to doing business with integrity. We are known  
and respected for dealing honestly and fairly with our investors, suppliers, 
partners, customers, associates and competitors.
We believe, with conviction, that acting with integrity at all times is  
fundamental to our success, both individually and as an organization.  
Our integrity and compliance program motto says it all –  
Your Integrity: Our Success.
•  Prevent violations of law, regulations and Danaher's  
Standards of Conduct globally
•  Increase awareness and understanding of integrity and 
compliance-related risks
•  Promote an environment where concerns are raised  
openly and addressed appropriately
•  Identify and proactively mitigate new or increased risks  
as Danaher’s business evolves 
•  Generate tools and actions responsive to Danaher and 
operating company-specific risks
•  Provide expert response and countermeasure  
of compliance misses98% 
OF ASSIGNED  
ASSOCIATES COMPLETED 
2015 COMPLIANCE  
TRAINING40,144  
ASSOCIATES WERE  
ASSIGNED  
2015 COMPLIANCE  
TRAINING
THE KEY OBJECTIVES OF OUR  
INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE 
PROGRAM ARE TO:19
BACK TO COVERCONTINUOUSLY IMPROVING COMPLIANCE
The versatility of DBS makes it particularly useful in enhancing our compliance program. For example, 
we use an interactive, electronic database to track our most important compliance metrics, allowing 
our teams to use visual management to clearly identify areas for improvement, and understand their 
performance relative to other operating companies by business and region. This year, we held the 
first kaizen for our corporate compliance program, engaging a cross-functional team to assess and 
improve our methods for delivering in-person compliance training to our third party partners. OUR COMPLIANCE PROGRAM  
INCLUDES THREE MAIN ELEMENTS: 
TONE AT TOP
SPEAK UP!
RISK ASSESSMENT & COUNTERMEASURES
ANTI-CORRUPTION PROGRAM
TRAINING ON LAWS, POLICIES AND PROCESSES
RIGHT PEOPLE IN RIGHT POSITIONS
HELPLINE
MANAGERS WITH EYES OPEN
INTERNAL AUDITS
EXTERNAL AUDITS
REGULATORY ACTIONS
SPEAK UP!
INVESTIGATE ALL ISSUES
STOP MISCONDUCT
ESTABLISH FACTS
ADDRESS GOVERNMENT/ REGULATORY ISSUES
DISCIPLINEPREVENT
DETECT
RESPOND
20
BACK TO COVERCorporate Governance
How Our Board of Directors  
and Management Team Work
Structure and Responsibilities. 
Our Board of Directors:
 •  works with management to determine Danaher’s 
long-term strategy;
 •  evaluates the performance and determines the com -
pensation of our CEO and other executive officers;
 • is responsible for CEO succession planning;  
 •  oversees Danaher’s internal controls over  
financial reporting; and
 •  oversees our risk assessment and risk  
management program.
Our Board consists of eleven members, including two 
women. We have separated the positions of Chairman of 
the Board and CEO and, because our Chairman is an exec -
utive officer, our Board has appointed a Lead Independent 
Director to chair meetings of the independent directors 
and act as a liaison, as necessary, between the indepen -
dent directors and the management directors. The Board’s 
Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nomi -
nating and Governance Committee each consist entirely of 
independent directors.Board Qualifications and Nomination.   Our Board and 
its Nominating and Governance Committee believe it is 
important that our directors demonstrate: 
 •  personal and professional integrity and character;
 •  prominence and reputation in his or her profession;
 •  skills, knowledge and expertise (including business 
or other relevant experience) that in aggregate are 
useful and appropriate in overseeing and providing 
strategic direction with respect to Danaher’s  
business and serving the long-term interests of  
Danaher shareholders;
 •  the capacity and desire to represent the interests  
of the shareholders as a whole; and
 •  availability to devote sufficient time to  
Danaher’s affairs.
Our Board does not have a formal or informal policy with 
respect to diversity but believes that the Board, taken as 
a whole, should embody a diverse set of skills, knowledge, 
experiences and backgrounds appropriate in light of the 
Company’s needs, and in this regard also subjectively 
takes into consideration the diversity (with respect to race, 
gender and national origin) of the Board when considering 
director nominees. Nominees for Danaher’s Board may 
be suggested by our directors, members of management, 
shareholders or, in some cases, by a third-party search firm.  
Managing Potential Conflicts of Interest.   The Nominat -
ing and Governance Committee reviews and, if appropriate,  
approves all related person transactions, prior to  
consummation whenever practicable. Related person 
transactions of an ongoing nature are reviewed annually  
by the Committee. “Related person transactions” are 
defined as transactions required to be disclosed under 
Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K promulgated under the U.S. 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
Risk Oversight.   While risk-taking is essential to growing 
a business, we recognize that prudent risk management 
is necessary to deliver long-term, sustainable shareholder 
value. The Board’s role in risk oversight is consistent with 
Danaher’s leadership structure: management has day-to-HOW WE GOVERN OUR COMPANY
Corporate governance at Danaher is designed to serve the long-term 
interests of our shareholders, strengthen our leaders, foster responsible 
decision-making and accountability, and inspire public trust.
21
BACK TO COVERday responsibility for assessing and managing Danaher’s 
risk exposure and the Board and its committees over -
see those efforts, with particular emphasis on our most 
significant risks. Annually, each of our operating compa -
nies inventories, prioritizes and implements appropriate 
countermeasures for its key risks, while our senior manage -
ment reports on our risk management process to the Audit 
Committee and to our Board of Directors on the results of 
that process. The strength of our risk management program 
lies in the autonomy we give our operating companies to 
think broadly about the risks they face and determine how 
best to mitigate them. We know that those who are closest 
to gemba—the physical location where work gets done—  
are best positioned to identify and mitigate our most  
significant risks. 
CSR Oversight .  Danaher’s Senior Vice President and  
General Counsel, who reports directly to Danaher’s CEO, 
has general oversight responsibility with respect to matters 
of corporate social responsibility and is responsible for  
reviewing and approving Danaher’s corporate social  
responsibility reports.
Communication with the Board.   Shareholders and other 
parties interested in communicating directly with our 
Board, or with individual directors, our Lead Independent 
Director or the non-management or independent directors 
as a group, may do so by addressing communications to 
the Board of Directors, to the specified individual director 
or to the non-management or independent directors, as 
applicable, c/o Corporate Secretary, Danaher Corporation, 
2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Suite 800W, Washington, 
D.C. 20037-1701. 
How We Compensate Executives
The goal of our executive compensation program is to 
build long-term value for our shareholders. The program 
is designed to reward executive officers who build long-
term shareholder value, achieve annual business goals 
and maintain long-term careers with Danaher. Our pro -
gram’s emphasis on long-term equity awards tied closely to 
shareholder returns and subject to significant vesting and 
holding periods has been fundamental in attracting skilled executives, encouraging them to build long-term careers 
with Danaher, and motivating them to achieve sustain -
able, long-term operating and financial performance 
through a range of economic cycles.
We provide our shareholders an opportunity to cast an 
annual advisory vote with respect to the compensation of 
our named executive officers, as disclosed in our annual 
proxy statement (the “say on pay proposal”). At Danaher’s 
annual meeting of shareholders in May 2016, 98% of the 
votes cast on the say on pay proposal were voted in favor 
of the proposal. 
Transparency in Political Contributions
Participating in the political process is not part of our 
corporate culture. Danaher has followed a long-standing 
policy against using its funds or assets to support politi -
cal parties or candidates, political committees or 501(c)4 
organizations, ballot measures, or any public commu -
nication that advocates the election or defeat of any 
political candidate. Nor do we have any intention of using 
Danaher funds or assets for these purposes. All of these 
policy details are disclosed on our public website, www.
danaher.com, under “Investors – Corporate Governance.”  
In addition, we belong and pay dues to certain trade and 
industry associations, and our policy is that each such 
association may use no more than $25,000 of our dues in 
any calendar year for political purposes.IR MAGAZINE AWARDS  
BEST CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
IN 3 OF LAST 5 YEARS  
(2015, 2014, 2012)  
AND 
BEST IR PROGRAM  
IN ITS INDUSTRY IN  
2013 AND 2016
22
BACK TO COVER2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 800W, Washington, DC 20037
phone : +1-202-828-0850  fax: +1-202-828-0860
www.danaher.com