2018 Sustainability Report
INNOVATION 09
COMPANY OVERVIEW 04FROM OUR CEO 02
HOW WE WORK 07PEOPLE 13
ENVIRONMENT 23
FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS 26
© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved
© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved2INTRODUCTION
From Our CEO
Welcome to Danaher’s 2018 Sustainability Report. Since our first publication over five years ago, this report marks 
real progress in our pursuit of meaningful and measurable impact. Our Shared Purpose— Helping Realize Life’s 
Potential —continues to inspire us as we work for the good of our employees (whom we refer to as associates), 
customers, investors, communities and planet.
Thomas P. Joyce, Jr.
In our last  report, we focused on how Danaher’s businesses improve health 
and safety around the globe by enabling life-saving research and diagnostics, 
consumer packaging innovations, and environmental stewardship. We also 
acknowledged the work we had before us to further advance sustain -
ability across all aspects of our business. T oday’s rapid pace of growth and 
change, and our passion for continuous improvement, demand that we 
hold ourselves to increasingly higher standards.
Over the past two years, we have taken steps to ensure that we do not simply 
adhere to minimum sustainability practices, but begin to lead the way in 
the areas that matter most to our stakeholders. Following the spin-off 
of Fortive Corporation in 2016, we conducted a full sustainability 
materiality assessment, which included gathering input from dozens 
of stakeholders, benchmarking our progress against peers, prioritizing 
our focus areas, and developing a clear framework to guide our future 
efforts. This assessment identified the three pillars that now underpin our 
sustainability framework.INNOVATION
The first pillar, Innovation, addresses the direct contributions we make each 
day to advancing health and safety around the world. When viewed through 
the lens of sustainability, our Core Value , Innovation Defines Our Future, 
drives us to improve the future for individuals and communities who face 
pressing health, safety and environmental challenges. Danaher’s products 
and services fight disease, protect water and air quality, and improve 
access to healthcare in underserved areas. You’ll read about a number of 
these groundbreaking efforts in the pages that follow.
PEOPLE
The second pillar, People, focuses on our most valuable resource for delivering 
these world-changing, often life-saving innovations—our people. Through 
programs and initiatives that advance our associates’ safety, professional 
ambitions and personal growth, and strengthen the communities in which 
we live and work, we deepen our commitment to those who truly define 
our company. These efforts help us build stronger and more dedicated 
teams in the spirit of another Core Value, The Best T eam Wins . 
ENVIRONMENT
The third pillar, Environmental Impact, encompasses how we work to increase 
the use of sustainable materials and energy sources, and reduce our carbon 
footprint. Our dedication to efficient processes, inherent in the Danaher 
Business System ( DBS ) and exemplified by our Core Value, Kaizen is Our 
Way of Life , has served us well in these critical areas. Our goal here is to 
establish company-wide standards where it makes sense, while providing 
our operating companies with the flexibility to pursue environmental 
sustainability in ways that best fit the needs of their stakeholders.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved3
2018 Sustainability ReportFROM OUR CEO (CONTINUED)
Our new sustainability framework is designed to clearly articulate the areas where our strategy and sustainability goals align for maximum 
impact. It helps us prioritize, and it holds us accountable. And as alwa ys, we seek to conduct our work with the highest standards of 
integrity  at every level of our organization, and we expect our business partners to maintain those same high standards.
We are proud of our progress since our last sustainability report, and we will keep challenging ourselves in the spirit of Our Shared Purpose, 
Helping Realize Life’s Potential. 
Thank you, as always, for your continued support.
Thomas P . Joyce, Jr.
President & Chief Executive Officer© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved4COMPANY OVERVIEW
Danaher at a Glance
A global family of more than 20 operating companies, we drive meaningful innovation in some of today’s most dynamic 
industries. Comprising 4 business segments with footprints in more than 60 countries around the world, our 
groundbreaking technologies transform the way professionals approach their work in life sciences, diagnostics, 
dental care, and environmental and applied solutions.
GEOGRAPHIC FOOTPRINT
20
MORE THAN TWENTY OPERATING COMPANIES4
COMPRISING FOUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS60
IN MORE THAN SIXTY COUNTRIES WORLDWIDE
© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved5
2018 Sustainability ReportOUR BUSINESSES
LIFE SCIENCES
Our businesses help scientists around the world work at a molecular level to 
understand chronic disease and infections, develop new therapies and test 
new drugs.DIAGNOSTICS
We provide critical tools and software for clinicians to safeguard patient 
health and improve diagnostic confidence —in a range of healthcare settings, 
from family physicians’ offices to leading trauma, cancer and critical 
care centers.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND APPLIED SOLUTIONS
From innovative consumer packaging to drinking water purification, these 
businesses help protect precious resources and keep our global food and water 
supplies safe.DENTAL
We help dental professionals provide the highest level of patient care by 
optimizing their work environments and enabling better clinical outcomes.
All data in this report are from continuing operations unless otherwise noted. Data from continuing operations includes all data from the Dental businesses that 
Danaher expects to spin off in 2019 and excludes the Fortive Corporation businesses that spun off in 2016, as well as the Communications business that Danaher split 
off in 2015.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved6
2018 Sustainability ReportANNUAL SALES
© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved7HOW WE WORK
Helping Realize Life’s Potential
These are the values that guide every element of our business, including our sustainability program. 
OUR SHARED PURPOSE
Helping Realize Life’s Potential. Our Shared Purpose  is our reason for being and what makes us excited to come to 
work each day. The impact of what we do is broad. In all that we do, we strive to help our customers, associates, 
partners and shareholders realize their fullest potential. 
OUR CORE VALUES
Our Core Values inspire us to make every day better than the last, whether it’s 
supporting our customers, dreaming up tomorrow’s breakthrough innova -
tions, or developing our teams. 
THE BEST TEAM WINS
CUSTOMERS TALK, WE LISTEN
KAIZEN IS OUR WAY OF LIFE
INNOVATION DEFINES OUR FUTURE
WE COMPETE FOR SHAREHOLDERSDANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM
For decades, the Danaher Business System has been our proven method for 
making those advancements. These evolving tools and processes help hone 
our focus, direct our actions and measure our results.
© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved8
2018 Sustainability ReportSUSTAINABILITY
We direct our long-term sustainability efforts toward:
HELPING SOLVE PROBLEMS 
THROUGH INNOVATION.HELPING PEOPLE REACH 
THEIR POTENTIAL. HELPING PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT. 
No matter where we work, we hold ourselves to the highest standard of Integrity. And we expect all those we work 
with to meet the same standard.
SUSTAINABILITY OVERSIGHT
At the Board level, Danaher’s Nominating and Governance Committee has the authority and responsibility to consider 
matters regarding sustainability and social responsibility, as set forth in the committee’s charter. At the management 
level, Danaher’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel, who reports directly to our CEO, has general 
oversight responsibility with respect to matters of sustainability and social responsibility, and is responsible for 
reviewing and approving Danaher’s sustainability reports.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved9
When we innovate, we help our customers achieve amazing things. Our technologies advance research, improve 
human health and protect the environment, enhancing quality of life today and setting the foundation for a better 
world for future generations. Our businesses make it all happen, but Danaher provides the support they need to 
react quickly to customer needs, solve challenges close to the source, and innovate with confidence.
6.2 %
R&D AS A PERCENTAGE OF 
SALES IN 201713,207
WORLDWIDE ACTIVE PATIENTS 
IN 20175,384
WORLDWIDE PATENTS PENDING 
IN 20171,050
PATENT APPLICATIONS FILED 
IN 2017
ENSURING CLEANER, SAFER WATER FOR DIALYSIS
Hach’s CM130 system helps dialysis providers ensure safe chlorine levels 
in pre-treatment water before it reaches their patients. During the devel -
opment of the CM130, our scientists and engineers immersed themselv es 
in dialysis environments to understand the needs of patients, technicians, 
staff and administrators. The resulting system delivers trusted results in 
an easy to use design, allowing clinicians to focus more on patient care. 
In the first 18 months after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
granted 510(k) clearance, Hach CM130 systems have been delivered 
to over 25% of U.S. dialysis clinics, improving workflows for clinicians 
and safeguarding thousands of patients. It is also the latest example of 
how Hach partners  with customers to go beyond simple measurement, 
providing actionable insight and decision support.
INNOVATION
Helping Solve Problems 
Through Innovation© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved10
2018 Sustainability ReportSAVING LIVES THROUGH EARLY DETECTION OF SEPSIS 
Sepsis  is an abnormal response to infection that contributes to more than 8,000 deaths and threatens the lives of 
over 27 million people worldwide each year. Despite efforts to mitigate this global health crisis, sepsis cases have 
increased significantly with hospitalizations and related costs doubling over the last 10 years in the United 
States alone.
BECKMAN COULTER 
Beckman Coulter achieved the CE Mark and submitted a 510(k) for FDA 
clearance of its Early Sepsis Indicator, a hematology-based solution designed 
to alert emergency room clinicians to the risk of sepsis. This would be the 
first FDA-cleared early sepsis warning solution to be offered as part of 
a routine blood test, giving physicians a fast and easy diagnostics tool to 
help fight sepsis. The new test is commercially available in certain geogra -
phies outside the U.S. on Beckman Coulter’s recently launched DxH 900 
hematology analyzer.1RADIOMETER 
Hospital Universitario Doctor Peset in Valencia, Spain introduced 
Radiometer’s procalcitonin assay as a standard parameter in its sepsis 
screening protocol in 2012. This protocol has helped reduce the hospital’s 
mortality rate for sepsis admissions from 24% in 2012 to 17% in 2016. In 
the Internal Medicine Unit alone, spending on antibiotics declined b y 30% 
over that period.
1In this report, we describe certain products and devices which have applications submitted and pending for certain regulatory approvals.
ACCESS TO HEALTH
Our strategy for growth seeks to deliver breakthrough innovations that serve 
diverse populations around the world, and developing markets continue 
to be a significant opportunity for impact. We have dedicated significant 
resources to understanding the needs of customers and patients in these 
markets, developing products that address local requirements, and 
improving our commercial strategies and partnerships to expand local 
access to our life sciences, diagnostics, dental and other health-related 
and environmental products.PERCENT OF TOTAL DANAHER SALES ATTRIBUTED TO DEVELOPING 
MARKETS:
2015 2016 2017
28.6% 29.1% 30.2%© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved11
2018 Sustainability ReportACCESS TO HEALTH (CONTINUED)
AFRICA’S FIRST MEDICAL DRONES
Fast diagnosis is critical to helping caregivers save lives and build healthy 
communities. But in poor or remote areas, it simply takes too long to reach 
the lab, get results and start appropriate treatment. In 2017, HemoCue 
teamed up with Swedish drone service GLOBHE, to supply fast delivery of 
point-of-care blood tests and support people in hard-to-reach areas. 
HemoCue invested in the project by providing team support, as well as 
specially designed goods and packaging for transport by the drones. 
Initially launched by UNICEF and the government of Malawi, the 
humanitarian drone corridor is aimed at significantly improving efficiency 
and ability to deliver emergency services to areas in need.
ENDING EDENTULISM IN RAPA NUI
A high rate of toothlessness (edentulism) severely impacts the quality of life of 
the indigenous population of Rapa Nui, also known as Easter Island. In one of 
the most remote inhabited places on earth, Rapa Nui’s community of 
around 8,000 is served by just one resident dentist, and faces resource and 
financial restrictions when it comes to dental care. Nobel Biocare 
partnered with doctors and the Foundation for Oral Rehabilitation to 
combat this challenge. In April 2018, a team of dental professionals 
volunteered their services to treat Rapa Nui locals, armed with donated 
Trefoil systems from Nobel Biocare. The innovative Trefoil system treats 
the edentulous jaw with a fixed set of prosthetic teeth on the day of 
surgery, an efficiency breakthrough in dental implants.CEPHEID AND THE EBOLA EPIDEMIC 
Ebola is a severe and highly contagious illness that disproportionately affects 
poor populations in several parts of the world, especially sub-Saharan Africa. 
The fatality rate can be as high as 90%, though survival rates can improve 
dramatically with early supportive care. The recent global outbreaks of 
Ebola heighten the need for fast and accurate diagnostics. Cepheid’s Xpert 
Ebola test is fast, simple to use and highly sensitive, requiring only a few 
drops of blood from a finger stick or buccal swabs as sample input. It was 
designed to be easily distributed to affected areas and offers a r apid 
response solution that can help contain Ebola outbreaks. According to 
Mark Perkins, head of laboratory networks for the World Health 
Organization (WHO) Health Emergencies Programme, “Labs have been 
set up with two to three days’ notice in new transmission zones, whereas 
in West Africa it took months and months to get facilities up and running. 
It’s a remarkable change. ” Xpert Ebola is approved for emergency use only 
by the FDA and is listed in the WHO Emergency Use Assessment and 
Listing Program. © 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved12
2018 Sustainability ReportREGULATORY AFFAIRS AND QUALITY ASSURANCE
We deploy common standards and controls across our medical technology operating companies to drive the safety and 
effectiveness of our products and services, including the following:
CORPORATE AUDIT PROGRAMS
Annually, Danaher’s corporate staff audits all Danaher sites registered 
with the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s regulations relating to Good 
Manufacturing Practices (GMP) (including product testing and supplier evalu -
ation and monitoring), medical device reporting, recalls, FDA establishment 
registrations and device listings. Danaher’s corporate audit function also 
audits our businesses annually to help ensure their compliance with 
Danaher’s and operating companies’ policies regarding responsible 
marketing, advertising and promotional procedures and practices.
ANNUAL COMPLIANCE TRAINING
The KPI and auditing controls described to the right are bolstered by 
GMP-specific annual training requirements. All associates employed by our 
medical technology operating companies, including senior management, 
are required to participate in annual training covering GMP compliance 
and compliance with laws governing off-label promotions.REGULATORY, QUALITY AND CLINICAL AFFAIRS KPIS
Our medical technology operating companies follow the ISO 13485 
standard for quality management system (QMS) compliance. We require 
these operating companies to track and report on a regular cadence key 
performance indicators (KPIs) designed to provide transparency, drive 
accountability, and measure the health of our QMS. These required 
KPIs focus on pre-market and post-market product and QMS perfor -
mance, covering areas such as design verification and validation, global 
product registrations, complaints, recalls and corrective and preventive 
actions (CAPAs). KPI goals are established for each medical technology 
operating company, and we leverage our DBS tools to help us meet these 
goals. Danaher’s executive leadership reviews these KPIs on a regular 
basis, in addition to the established QMS reviews by our operating 
company leadership.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved13
PEOPLE
Helping People Reach Their Potential
We are committed to attracting, developing, engaging and retaining the best people to help us sustain and build our 
company. We offer a unique and compelling career experience with opportunities spanning multiple high-impact 
industries, six continents and more than 20 global operating companies. We seek out associates who thrive in a 
performance-driven organization and who want to be part of a team that’s committed to making a real difference.
23,000
ASSOCIATES IN THE U.S.+ 44,000
ASSOCIATES OUTSIDE THE U.S.= 67,000
TOTAL ASSOCIATES WORLDWIDE
PERSONAL POTENTIAL
HEALTH & WELLNESS
Danaher provides health and welfare benefits that are supportive of and responsive to our associates’ well-being and 
needs. Danaher’s Wellness Program is designed to support our associates’ journey to better health. Whether 
that’s physical fitness, emotional resilience, financial stability, or a combination, associates can select programs 
that are meaningful to them.
37%
U.S. ASSOCIATES THAT ACTIVELY 
PARTICIPATE IN WELLNESS PROGRAM35,659
INDIVIDUALS PARTICIPATING IN DANAHER 
DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS AS OF 
YEAR-END 201722,713
ASSOCIATES PARTICIPATING IN DANAHER 
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS AS OF 
YEAR-END 2017© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved14
2018 Sustainability ReportPERSONAL POTENTIAL (CONTINUED)
COMPENSATION
We are committed to offering competitive total rewards, tailored to 
geography, industry and experience. Danaher’s compensation programs and 
practices are designed to attract associates, motivate and reward 
performance, drive growth and support retention. In general, compen -
sation at Danaher includes base salary and often some form of variable 
bonus or incentive opportunity. In addition, selected associates receive 
long-term compensation in the form of Danaher equity awards.
HOW WE COMPENSATE EXECUTIVES
The goal of our executive compensation program is to build long-term value 
for our shareholders. The program is designed to reward executive officers 
who build long-term shareholder value, achieve annual business goals 
and maintain long-term careers with Danaher. Our program’s emphasis 
on long-term equity awards, tied closely to shareholder returns and 
subject to significant vesting and holding periods, has been fundamental in 
attracting skilled executives, encouraging them to build long-term careers 
with Danaher, and motivating them to achieve sustainable, long-term 
operating and financial performance through a range of economic cycles. 
We provide our shareholders an opportunity to cast an annual advisory 
vote with respect to the compensation of our named executive officers, 
as disclosed in our annual proxy statement (the “say on pay proposal”). At 
Danaher’s annual meeting of shareholders in May 2018, 97% of the votes 
were cast in favor of the proposal.PAID PARENTAL LEAVE
In 2018, Danaher began offering paid parental leave for its U.S.  associates.  
New parents in the U.S. (including U.S. expatriates) are eligible to take up 
to eight weeks of 100% paid leave within the first year of a child’s birth, 
adoption or foster care placement. We believe that this new benefit 
positions Danaher at the forefront of family friendly policies among 
U.S. employers.
BUILDING A BOND FOR A LIFETIME
Michael, a regional sales manager at Beckman Coulter, and his wife were 
overjoyed to welcome a baby girl to their family in 2018. Michael’s job 
includes a great deal of travel, so Danaher’s paid parental leave enabled 
him to strike a healthy balance between work and family life in the 
important first year of his daughter’s life. According to Michael, “I was able 
to take two weeks off when my daughter was born, and used the rest of my 
parental leave in one week increments throughout her first year. I’m 
thankful to have had this bonding time with her, while not having to worry 
about making ends meet. I honestly can’t imagine being on this journey 
without parental leave. ” Beckman Coulter encourages associates to take 
advantage of Danaher’s paid parental leave. Michael confirmed, “Deciding 
to take parental leave was easy thanks to the support from my manager 
and the leadership team. ”© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved15
2018 Sustainability ReportPERSONAL POTENTIAL (CONTINUED)
VOLUNTEER TIME OFF
Our associates are helpers in and out of the workplace. They know that time spent in the service of others provides 
the perspective, gratitude, focus and inspiration that makes them happier and more productive at work and at 
home. Danaher operating companies support their associates’ commitment to volunteerism in a variety of ways, 
including team volunteer days and volunteer time off. 
INTEGRATED DNA TECHNOLOGIES (IDT)
IDT, one of Danaher’s newest Life Sciences operating companies, has a long 
history of community involvement beginning with its founder, Joseph Walder, 
MD, PhD. IDT offers full- and part-time associates up to 16 hours of paid 
leave annually to volunteer in their local communities. In 2017, more than 
500 associates took part in volunteer time off, donating more than 4,200 
hours to 55 organizations.BECKMAN COULTER
Beckman Coulter launched its volunteer time off program in the U.S., Europe 
and Canada in 2017, and Latin America and Japan in 2018. Eligible 
associates can apply to take time off from work to give back to the causes 
that mean the most to them. In 2017, Beckman Coulter had 1,531 
submissions for time off and logged 9,384 volunteer hours. 
ENGAGEMENT
Our engagement strategy focuses on developing the best workplace with 
the best leaders, and we conduct an annual engagement survey to measure 
the impact of our strategy. We are proud to report that our 2018 results 
reflect meaningful progress on this journey. In 2018, 92% of associates 
participated in the survey and Danaher’s score improved in each of the 53 
survey areas. IMPROVEMENT FROM 2013 TO 2018
15 PERCENTAGE POINTSIN ASSOCIATE ENGAGEMENT
13 PERCENTAGE POINTSIN DIRECT SUPERVISOR 
EFFECTIVENESS© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved16
2018 Sustainability ReportPERSONAL POTENTIAL (CONTINUED)
ENGAGING OUR MINDS AND BODIES
Combining engagement and wellness, Danaher One Site in Mumbai India 
celebrated International Yoga Day with asanas, pranayama and meditation 
workshops for its associates.
DANAHER SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
The Danaher Scholarship Program helps reduce the financial burden of 
higher education costs for Danaher families. In 2018, we recognized the 
achievements of 69 students from a competitive pool of more than 420 
applicants, with scholarships totaling $265,000. Each award recipient 
received between $3,000 and $5,000 to put toward their college 
education expenses. Scholarships are renewable for the duration of 
recipients’ undergraduate studies, as long as they remain in good academic 
standing and their parent continues to work with Danaher. The Danaher 
Scholarship Program has helped deserving students realize their potential 
for over a decade. T o date, we’ve supported children of Danaher associates 
with more than $3 million in scholarship awards.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved17
2018 Sustainability ReportPROFESSIONAL POTENTIAL
LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT
From individual contributors to managers and senior leaders, we help our 
associates realize their potential with meaningful career development 
opportunities. Our approach includes a mix of on-the-job learning, 
coaching, and leadership and DBS training. We call this our 
70/20/10 model.LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT CURRICULUM
We complement experiential learning with a robust leadership devel -
opment and learning curriculum that is designed to provide our associates, 
managers and senior leaders with the skills and knowledge to succeed 
at Danaher. Select examples of Danaher’s Leadership Development 
curriculum include:
• Leadership Essentials:  An introductory boot camp supporting new 
managers in developing winning teams.
• Maximizing Leadership Performance:  A course designed to help mid-level 
leaders become more effective managers.
• Accelerated Learning Program:  A course focused on developing high-po -
tential leaders, their teams and their organization to drive future results.
• Danaher Leadership Program:  A course to provide new-to-role General 
Managers and Presidents with foundational knowledge and skills framed 
around Danaher’s Core Value Drivers and leadership competencies.
• Executive Champion Orientation and DBS Leadership Orientation:  
Programs that immerse new leaders in the DBS culture through the intro -
duction of DBS fundamentals and hands-on experience with DBS tools. 
87%
PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATES WITH DEVELOPMENT PLAN
EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING
We believe that on-the-job, experiential learning provides our associates with 
the most impactful development opportunities. >500
MORE THAN 500 CERTIFIED FACILITATORS
CERTIFIED INSTRUCTION
Many of Danaher’s learning programs are facilitated by our own certified 
instructors, who go through formal train-the-trainer programs before 
receiving certification. © 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved18
2018 Sustainability ReportPROFESSIONAL POTENTIAL (CONTINUED)
LEARNING DBS
Danaher Business System University (DBSU) helps associates develop specific 
DBS competencies and capabilities needed to drive results at Danaher. DBSU 
provides a wide variety of learning opportunities, both at physical 
locations around the world (U.S., China, India and Germany) and virtually. 
The DBSU curriculum and offering span formal classroom style training, 
peer best-practice sharing and engagement, and action learning 
through kaizens.
PALL AEROSPACE APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
Pall’s Aerospace  Design Engineering Apprenticeship is a four-year work and 
study program aimed at developing skilled, early career talent. 16- to 
17-year-old apprentices are set on a path of engineering growth when 
they join Pall’s Harbourgate and Redruth (UK) locations as permanent 
associates directly out of school. They simultaneously continue their 
education at Southampton Engineering Training Association , ultimately 
earning a Bachelor of Engineering degree and a long-term career with P all. 
After six years, the program continues to pay off. Our apprentices have 
earned high academic marks and have significantly contributed to Pall in 
their years after graduation.DANAHER GO
69% 2017 SENIOR LEADER INTERNAL FILL RATE
Danaher Go is our commitment to hiring from within, where possible, 
and growing careers. We seek to fill our open roles with our own great 
associates. Our internal policy champions this commitment by empow -
ering associates to pursue intra-Danaher career moves with full support 
from their manager and senior leadership. At any one time there may be 
more than 1,000 open roles across Danaher.
PERFORMANCE FOR GROWTH
100% PERCENTAGE OF ASSOCIATES WHO RECEIVED 
PERFORMANCE REVIEWS IN 2017
Our Performance for Growth process supports our performance-based 
rewards system, ensuring that high-performing associates are recognized for 
their contributions and encourages managers to provide ongoing, real-time 
performance feedback throughout the year to ensure associate success 
and development.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved19
2018 Sustainability ReportDIVERSITY & INCLUSION
A diverse and inclusive workforce strengthens Danaher and ensures the best team continues to win. We are working 
to support an inclusive culture  in which every associate feels they belong. We believe that by building and 
maintaining a culture rooted in inclusive values, we maximize the unique perspectives and fresh ideas necessary 
to drive our innovation, fuel our growth, and ensure our technologies and products effectively serve a global 
customer base.
PARTNERS IN DIVERSITY 
T o help expand our funnel of talented, high performing associates, Danaher partners with diverse professional 
organizations, including:
ASSOCIATE RESOURCE GROUPS
In 2018, Danaher launched our first Associate Resource Groups (ARGs) in the 
U.S.  to help further strengthen inclusion within our culture.  Beginning with 
Women & Friends and African Descent & Friends, with a plan to include 
additional dimensions of diversity in the near future, Danaher ARGs are 
sponsored network    s for associates, across all operating companies, to 
come together, share, learn and develop with each other. They help our 
associates realize their full potential and increase the representation of 
high-potential diverse talent at all levels of the organization.HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN
For the fifth year in a row, Danaher has been named one of the “Best Places to 
Work for LGBTQ Equality,” as assessed by the 2018 Human Rights Campaign 
Corporate Equality Index (CEI) . The CEI evaluates LGBTQ-related policies 
and practices including non-discrimination workplace protections, 
domestic partner benefits, transgender-inclusive health care benefits, 
competency programs, and public engagement with the 
LGBTQ community.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved20
2018 Sustainability ReportDIVERSITY & INCLUSION (CONTINUED)
BUILDING INCLUSIVE TEAMS AND LEADERS
Launched in 2017, this program helps associates and managers gain the 
awareness and tools they need to be a part of and lead diverse teams, create 
an inclusive workplace, and serve global customers. Since launch, we’ve 
trained more than 3,000 managers around the globe.
OUR COMMUNITIES
Being a good steward of the communities in which we live and work reflects the value we place on teamwork and 
continuous improvement. Danaher and our operating companies routinely support our communities’ causes by 
engaging in charitable partnerships, team events, local fundraisers and more.
CORPORATE PARTNERSHIPS
Through the Danaher Foundation, we provide direct financial support to 
organizations that advance our vision of improving quality of life around 
the world. We focus on four areas: STEM Education, healthcare research 
and discovery, diversity, and disaster preparedness and community 
engagement. In this reporting period, some of our partners have included:
© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved21
2018 Sustainability ReportOUR COMMUNITIES (CONTINUED)
DANAHER CHINA ADREAM
Danaher operating companies in China have banded together to support 
Adream , an organization focused on improving access to quality education for 
children in remote parts of China. In 2017 and 2018, associates and leaders 
raised over $65,000 to establish three multimedia classrooms to support 
students from Chongqing Dianjiang Chengbei Primary School, Guizhou 
Qibo Primary School and Shanghai Pudong Educational Middle School. In 
addition to the financial contribution, our associates support enrichment 
activities for these children, including a family day, health walking, school 
visits and more.
SCIEX TEAM UNITES FOR CANCER PREVENTION
SCIEX mass spectrometers enable cancer research around the world, but that 
is not the only way the SCIEX team supports the cause. For the past few years 
the SCIEX team has supported the World Cancer Research Fund , a global 
organization focused on cancer prevention research related to diet, 
weight and physical activity. Through virtual races, associate engagement 
initiatives and more, SCIEX has contributed approximately $30,000 to the 
organization since 2015 . SCIEX donations support research to improve 
diagnostics and treatment protocols, and the development of online 
lifestyle and health assessment tools for the public.PROTECTING WHAT MATTERS AFTER HURRICANE MARIA
 In 2017, Hurricane Maria’s direct hit on Puerto Rico left Pall’s Fajardo facility 
and its almost 600 associates without power, water, phone service, or access 
to transportation and outside resources. In accordance with Pall’s motto, 
Protect What Matters , Pall associates from around the world went to 
extreme measures to support their colleagues and the Puerto Rican 
community when they needed it most. Pall associates purchased, 
packaged and shipped 90,000 pounds of essential items (food, water , 
batteries, flashlights and diapers) and 400 home generators to support 
associates without power. Financial contributions from our associates 
poured in and, together with Danaher and Pall’s matching donations, 
totaled approximately $85,000 in additional support.
VIDEOJET FEEDS NEIGHBORS IN NEED
In Videojet’s home state of Illinois, 1.4 million people struggle with hunger, 
including almost half a million children. As a marking and coding industry 
leader with customers that include major food and beverage brands, the 
Videojet team decided to tackle this challenge in a way that reinforces the 
work they do every day. In August 2018, 165 associates and their children 
came together for a “Feed the Funnel” event that involved packaging 
thousands of healthy meals from dry ingredients. At the end of the day, 
Videojet delivered 40,000 meals to the Northern Illinois Food Bank  to help 
their hungry neighbors in need.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved22
2018 Sustainability ReportSAFETY
Associate safety is deeply embedded in our culture. Our emphasis on workplace safety seeks to ensure our 
associates feel good about coming to work, and that they leave safe and healthy at the end of every shift. We are 
proud that workplace safety consistently achieves high scores in our annual Associate Engagement Survey. Our 
safety score consistently exceeds the average score of our survey administrator’s global clients and has increased 
every year since our survey began in 2013.
OUR 4E TOOLKIT
60% DANAHER’S SAFETY INCIDENT AND INJURY RATES HAVE 
BEEN REDUCED BY OVER SIXTY PERCENT, SINCE 2010
Over the past three years, we have expanded and refined our “4E” portfolio of 
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) risk management tools. Launched in 
2015, this DBS-based framework empowers our associates with methods 
to identify, assess and control hazards related to the four Es: ergonomics, 
energetics, exposures and environment. In 2016, we introduced layered 
EHS self-audits and the use of kamishibai, a DBS visual tool that helps 
sustain operational safety improvements. In 2017, we introduced leading 
EHS indicators, such as “near misses” and safety observations, into our 
daily management process. The use of leading indicators, self-audits and 
kamishibai, reduce the level of hazard in our workplaces.PROTECTING OUR ASSOCIATES
Our operating companies have robust processes in place to protect our 
associates and facilities from fire and natural hazards. We have also invested 
to further safeguard our existing facilities against fire, wind, flood and 
earthquake hazards. Our emphasis on improving crisis management and 
business continuity plans helps ensure the wellbeing of our associates and 
their families during extreme weather events and other emergencies.
PROTECTING OUR FACILITIES
Property Risk Engineering best practices are a standard element of our 
facility design, construction and modification processes. In addition, each 
major facility has an action plan to reduce property risk and sustain 
past improvements. Senior operating company and Danaher leaders 
assess our levels of facility risk several times each year and set goals for 
continuous improvement.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved23
ENVIRONMENT
Helping Protect the Environment
We’re focused on finding the places where environmental considerations can reduce environmental impact, reduce 
cost of operations, increase uptime and improve efficiency for us and our customers. While Danaher has recently 
embarked on a more programmatic approach to addressing our environmental impact, our operating companies 
have a long history of independently pursuing environmental sustainability programs and other green initiatives.
ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS
Quantifying the impact of our operations on the environment helps inform 
where best to deploy our DBS energy and waste tools. Beginning in 2018, 
Danaher has begun centrally tracking energy usage, greenhouse gas 
emissions, waste generation and water usage for our operating companies. 
We intend to report these metrics in our next Sustainability Report.OUR SUSTAINABILITY LEADER
Danaher has established a director-level position dedicated to energy and 
environmental sustainability, currently led by a licensed professional engineer 
with a PhD in environmental engineering. This corporate role supports our 
operating companies in reducing energy usage and waste generation.
DANAHER ONESITES AROUND THE WORLD
Danaher operating companies are increasingly joining together to form 
“OneSite” locations in key geographic areas around the world to improve 
environmental and operating efficiency, and to boost opportunities 
for collaboration.
In 2017, Leica Biosystems and Leica Microsystems joined Pall in their 
sustainably-engineered Buccinasco, Italy facility. The move benefits 
customers, facilitates collaboration with more common areas and work 
spaces, improves quality and safety, and lowers costs due to synergies and 
building efficiencies.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved24
2018 Sustainability ReportDBS ENERGY AND WASTE REDUCTION TOOLS
The Danaher Business System is always evolving to serve the needs of our businesses and customers. In 2018, 
we deployed the first environmental sustainability tools in our DBS toolkit. Our initial tools, focused on 
reducing energy use and waste generation, have been designed for use by associates with no specialized 
environmental knowledge.
10
ENERGY USE REDUCTION WORKSHOPS SINCE 
DEPLOYMENT3
WASTE REDUCTION WORKSHOPS SINCE 
DEPLOYMENT>100
PROJECTS TO REDUCE WASTE AND ENERGY 
USE INDENTIFIED
OUR ENERGY TOOL
Our Energy T ool helps our facilities improve energy efficiency, yielding cost 
savings and lower greenhouse gas emissions by:
• Enabling associates to identify and prioritize opportunities,
• Guiding associates in developing action plans, and
• Tracking energy performance and charting progress in a simple way.OUR WASTE TOOL
Our Waste T ool provides qualitative and quantitative guidance to prioritize 
waste reduction and recycling efforts by:
• Allowing customized, quantitative tracking for a facility’s specific needs,
• Providing resources for recycling programs, and
• Sharing resources for team building and stakeholder involvement.
REMOTE CALIBRATION HELPS CUT CARBON EMISSIONS
Calibration is standard preventive maintenance for many diagnostic 
machines, but trips to customer sites and shipping boxes can take a toll on the 
environment. T o reduce the energy consumed on packaging production and 
fuel, Cepheid looked for a more sustainable solution. The Cepheid team 
can now evaluate the calibration of internet-connected devices remotely. 
Based on product and packaging weight, we estimate the reduction of 
module transportation will reduce CO2 by 215 million kg each year.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved25
2018 Sustainability ReportKIPP & ZONNEN DUSTIQ
As solar energy farms take root around the world , Kipp & Zonnen is taking 
steps to keep the power flowing efficiently. Our DustIQ sensors continuously 
report the solar energy lost due to dust and dirt buildup on solar panels, 
providing actionable insight so the solar farms can operate at maximum 
performance. By alerting plant operation and maintenance staff when 
a critical threshold of light absorption is reached, DustIQ helps pre vent 
power loss in real time. DustIQ needs no maintenance and is cleaned in the 
same way, and at the same time, as the panels around it.
TROJAN UV PROTECTS HUMAN AND ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
With more than 10,000 municipal UV installations, Trojan  treats ~ 33% of 
all wastewater in the U.S.  and ~ 20% of all wastewater in China.  Every day, 
our UV systems displace the use of more than 285 railroad tanker cars of 
liquid chlorine for disinfection. In 2017 alone, our technology was used to 
reduce total carbon emissions equivalent to what 800,000 cars and trucks 
would produce on an annual basis.
Trojan’s story is similar when it comes to protecting our drinking water. In 
its New York City drinking water installation, Trojan’s high-output, low 
pressure lamp reduces CO2 emissions by approximately 13,700 tons 
annually compared to traditional lamp technology. Over 20 years, this 
equates to 274,000 fewer tons of CO2, making the TrojanUV T orrent an 
environmentally friendly solution for NYC.
IDT BOLSTERS BIODIVERSITY RESEARCH
IDT’s nucleic acid products help scientists around the world understand 
biodiversity loss, environmental threats to plant life, and the influence of the 
microorganisms on human health. The IDT Sustainability Award Program  is 
part of IDT’s ongoing commitment to science advocacy and sustainability. 
Open to researchers in academic, non-profit, and government labs in the 
U.S. and Canada, the program awards more than $50,000 each year for 
novel research projects that have the potential to make a global impact 
in the area of biodiversity. This year’s winning projects are from the 
University of Arkansas and Auburn University on endangered species; 
the University of California, Berkeley on landscape genomics; and Yale 
University on the human microbiome.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved26
FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Ethics, Integrity and 
Corporate Governance
Without a strong foundation, Danaher’s three sustainability pillars—Innovation, People and Environment—would lack 
the strength and stability needed to succeed. Our sustainability program and, in fact, our entire business, rests upon 
a bedrock of integrity and sound governance.
BEST CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
2014, 2015, 2018
BEST INVESTOR RELATIONS 
PROGRAM IN INDUSTRY
2016, 2017, 2018
BEST OVERALL INVESTOR 
RELATIONS PROGRAM
2018
ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT
Danaher is committed to doing business with integrity. Our corporate ethics and compliance function has 
established the Danaher Code of Conduct  and related policies and programs to govern how we interact with 
customers and business partners and market our products. This corporate function also oversees and monitors 
the implementation of these policies and programs at our operating companies.
COUNTERING CORRUPTION
Corruption and conflicts of interest are recognized risks in our industries. 
Identifying and effectively addressing these risks, particularly related to 
sales interactions between associates and customers, is a priority.All Danaher associates must comply with our Code of Conduct, Global 
Anti-Corruption Policy and related policies, as well as all applicable laws 
and regulations, and we reinforce these expectations with annual training 
requirements for all Danaher associates. Our customer-facing new hires 
are required to complete mandatory Code of Conduct and anti-cor -
ruption training as part of their orientation process and on an annual 
basis thereafter. © 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved27
2018 Sustainability ReportETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT (CONTINUED)
DISTRIBUTOR COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
We also support and monitor third-party distributors through our distributor 
compliance program, which we enhanced in 2018 by launching a new 
Channel Partner Code of Conduct . Pursuant to this program:
• Distributors, dealers and certain other third parties are required to 
complete our anti-corruption training, which is a condition to Danaher 
entering into or renewing a contract.
• We conduct due diligence to assess the potential for corruption before 
entering or renewing any channel partner contract.
• Our contracts require channel partners to comply with our Channel 
Partner Code of Conduct.RESPONSIBLE MARKETING TO CUSTOMERS AND PATIENTS
Each Danaher operating company is responsible for making sure its products 
are promoted accurately and appropriately in line with industry guidelines 
and applicable laws and regulations. We require all associates who market 
directly to healthcare providers to follow Danaher’s Code of Conduct as 
well as the Advanced Medical T echnology Association’s (AdvaMed) Code 
of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals.
ETHICAL INTERACTIONS WITH HEALTHCARE CUSTOMERS
We promote integrated healthcare systems by working with customers to 
develop innovative solutions. Our Code of Conduct emphasizes that our 
interactions with customers must be founded on achieving the best 
outcomes for patients and avoiding conflicts of interest.
We support industry initiatives to make information about payments to 
customers publicly available. A number of countries also require disclosure 
of the payments we make to physicians and teaching hospitals; in the 
U.S., this information is published on the U.S. Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services Open Payments website .
ETHICAL WORKPLACE
Well-established, Danaher-wide policies and programs (including the Code of Conduct) reinforce our culture of 
integrity within the workplace. These include the ethics and compliance systems described herein and the use 
of data analytics to identify and mitigate risks. We look to industry best practices and benchmarks to track our 
performance against our peers.
Every Danaher associate is personally accountable for compliance with our 
ethics and integrity policies. Models Humility, Transparency and Integrity  is 
one of the five Leadership Anchors that guide performance reviews at 
Danaher, and managers numerically score associate performance with 
respect to this element annually. We may withhold recognition, awards 
and/or monetary bonuses from, or terminate, associates who do not meet 
our expectations with respect to integrity and compliance.ENGAGING ASSOCIATES IN ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
Our Code of Conduct guides our everyday actions and interactions with 
internal and external stakeholders. The Code is available in 20 languages.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved28
2018 Sustainability ReportETHICAL WORKPLACE (CONTINUED
ENGAGING ASSOCIATES IN ETHICS AND 
COMPLIANCE (CONTINUED)
Each year, all associates in business, technical, professional, management 
and executive career categories are required to take Code of Conduct training 
and certify their understanding of the Code and all its requirements (we also 
provide multilingual training on the Code for new associates and those joining 
Danaher through acquisitions):
2015 2016 2017
NUMBER OF ASSOCIATES WHO COMPLETED CODE OF CONDUCT 
TRAINING AND RELATED CERTIFICATION
37,413 54,013 50,424
PERCENTAGE OF ASSOCIATES WHO COMPLETED CODE OF 
CONDUCT TRAINING AND RELATED CERTIFICATION
98% 99% 97%
PERCENTAGE OF NEW ASSOCIATES WHO COMPLETED CODE OF 
CONDUCT TRAINING AND RELATED CERTIFICATION
100% 100% 100%
We also provide live Code of Conduct training for our shop floor, manufacturing 
and field sales staff.
CENTRAL OVERSIGHT
A robust corporate ethics and compliance function reinforces our commitment 
to integrity. The responsibilities of our corporate ethics and compliance 
function include:
• Developing and facilitating ethics and compliance training
• Leveraging data analytics to identify and mitigate key ethics and 
compliance risks
• Managing our confidential reporting hotline, Speak Up!
• Leading investigations into alleged misconduct
• Supporting operating company compliance teams and leaders
• Developing and overseeing implementation of programs and campaigns 
that increase associates’ ethical awareness
• Reporting quarterly to Danaher’s Audit Committee and at least annually 
to Danaher’s Board of Directors on matters of ethics and complianceINTERNAL AUDIT SUPPORT
Danaher also has a robust internal audit function tasked with validating 
that proper accounting, and accounting-related controls, exist throughout 
Danaher. The internal audit function regularly conducts extensive internal 
audits to ensure that Danaher’s externally reported financial statements 
are properly prepared according to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles and to validate the effectiveness of the company’s internal 
controls over financial reporting. Internal audit also coordinates with 
Danaher’s corporate ethics and compliance function to quantitatively 
rank the company’s business locations from a risk perspective, using a set 
of established risk criteria that takes into account the location’s finance 
leadership, geographic location and historical internal audit performance, 
among other factors. The internal audit and compliance functions meet 
regularly with the company’s senior finance leadership and use this 
risk-based ranking to conduct a prioritized review of the company’s 
locations and implement risk mitigation actions as required.
REPORTING CONCERNS
We encourage associates to seek guidance on ethical issues and require them 
to raise concerns about possible legal or ethical violations. Concerns can be 
raised through numerous channels, including managers, Human 
Resources, Legal or Compliance department representatives, Danaher’s 
Board of Directors, or the Speak Up! Hotline.
Danaher’s corporate ethics and compliance function tracks and oversees all 
reported concerns from investigation to resolution. In 2017, we received 
and investigated more than 750 reports. Where appropriate we took 
disciplinary action, including coaching, changes in job responsibilities or 
title, discussion in performance reviews, adverse impact on paid incentive 
compensation or termination of employment.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved29
2018 Sustainability ReportOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT TEAM
Our Board consists of eleven members, including two women. We have separated the positions of Chairman of the 
Board and CEO and because our Chairman is an executive officer, our Board has appointed a Lead Independent 
Director to chair meetings of the independent directors and act as a liaison, as necessary, between the 
independent directors and the management directors. The Board’s Audit Committee, Compensation Committee 
and Nominating and Governance Committee each consist entirely of independent directors.
STRUCTURE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Our Board of Directors  and Its Committees:
• T ogether with management, determines Danaher’s long-term strategy,
• Evaluates the performance and sets the compensation of our CEO and 
other executive officers;
• Is responsible for CEO succession planning,
• Oversees Danaher’s internal controls over financial reporting, and
• Oversees our risk assessment and risk management program.
BOARD SELECTION, COMPOSITION AND REFRESHMENT
Nominees for Danaher’s Board may be suggested by our directors, members 
of management, shareholders or, in some cases, by a third-party search 
firm.  Our Board believes that it should collectively embody a diverse 
set of skills, knowledge, experiences and backgrounds appropriate to 
the Company’s needs, and takes into consideration the diversity of the 
Board, with respect to race, gender and national origin, when considering 
director nominees. 
Our Board also actively considers Board refreshment. Using our Board skills 
matrix as a guide as well as the results of our annual Board and committee 
self-assessment process, the Nominating and Governance Committee 
evaluates Board composition at least annually and identifies for Board 
consideration areas of expertise that would complement and enhance 
our current Board. In considering the Committee’s recommendations, the 
Board seeks to balance the knowledge and experience that comes from 
longer-term Board service with the fresh ideas, energy and new domain 
expertise that can come from adding new directors.
This graph illustrates the diverse set of skills, knowledge, experiences and 
backgrounds represented on our Board. © 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved30
2018 Sustainability ReportOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT TEAM (CONTINUED)
CEO SUCCESSION PLANNING
The foundation of our Board’s CEO succession planning process is a CEO 
development model consisting of two dimensions: leadership behaviors 
and development experiences. The Board uses the development model 
as a guide in preparing candidates, and also in evaluating candidates 
for the CEO and other executive positions at the Board’s annual talent 
review and succession planning session. At the annual session, the Board 
evaluates and compares candidates using the development model, and 
reviews each candidate’s development actions and progress over time, 
as well as business performance. The candidate evaluations are supple -
mented with periodic 360-degree performance appraisals, and the Board 
also regularly interacts with candidates at Board dinners and lunches, 
through Board meeting presentations and at the company’s annual 
leadership conference.
RISK OVERSIGHT
While risk-taking is essential to growing a business, we recognize that prudent 
risk management is necessary to deliver long-term, sustainable shareholder 
value. The Board’s role in risk oversight is consistent with Danaher’s 
leadership structure: management has day-to-day responsibility for 
assessing and managing Danaher’s risk exposure and the Board and its 
committees oversee those efforts, with emphasis on our most significant 
risks. Annually, each of our operating companies’ inventories, prioritizes 
and implements appropriate countermeasures for its key risks, while our 
senior management reports on our risk management process to the Audit 
Committee and on the results of that process to our Board of Directors. 
The strength of our risk management program lies in the autonomy we 
give our operating companies to think broadly about the risks they face 
and determine how best to mitigate them. We know that those who are 
closest to gemba —the physical location where work gets done— are best 
positioned to identify and mitigate our most significant risks.SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROGRAM
We actively seek and highly value feedback from our shareholders. During 
2017, in addition to our traditional Investor Relations outreach efforts, 
we engaged with shareholders representing approximately 25% of our 
outstanding shares on our governance and executive compensation 
programs and sustainability initiatives. Feedback received during these 
meetings is shared with our Nominating and Governance Committee and 
Compensation Committee to inform their decision-making.
MANAGING POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The Nominating and Governance Committee reviews and, if appropriate, 
approves all related person transactions  (defined as transactions required to 
be disclosed under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K promulgated under the 
U.S.  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), prior to consummation 
whenever practicable. Related person transactions of an ongoing nature 
are reviewed annually by the Committee.
COMMUNICATION WITH THE BOARD
Shareholders and other parties interested in communicating directly with 
our Board, or with individual directors, our Lead Independent Director or 
the non-management or independent directors as a group, may do so by 
addressing communications to the Board of Directors , to the specified 
individual director or to the non-management or independent directors, 
as applicable, c/o Corporate Secretary, Danaher Corporation, 2200 
Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.,  Suite 800W, Washington, D.C. 20037-1701.© 2018 Danaher. All Rights Reserved31
2018 Sustainability ReportTRANSPARENCY IN POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Participating in the political process is not part of our corporate culture. Danaher has followed a long-standing policy 
against using its funds or assets to support political parties or candidates, political committees, 527 or 501(c)4 
organizations, ballot measures, or any public communication that advocates the election or defeat of any political 
candidate. Details of this policy are disclosed on the Corporate Governance  section of our public website. In 
addition, we belong and pay dues to certain trade and industry associations, and our policy is that each such 
association may use no more than $25,000 of our dues in any calendar year for political purposes.