2020 
Sustainability 
Report
2020 Sustainability Report
GRI:  102-1 Cover Photo: Glacial Retreat  by John Hayes, Beckman Coulter associateFrom Our CEO 3
Environment 52People 30
Danaher at a Glance 6
Foundational Elements 62 Our Response to the Global COVID-19 Pandemic 14
About This Report 77 Innovation 20GRI:  102-14
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FROM OUR CEO
3From Our CEO
It is my great privilege to share Danaher’s 2020 
Sustainability Report—our company’s fifth, and my 
first as President and CEO. I am proud to carry forward 
the work of my predecessor, Tom Joyce, and to lead 
Danaher’s purpose-driven sustainability journey. 
My personal commitment to sustainability began early in my career, while 
working for a global chemical company where considering the responsibilities, 
risks and impact inherent in our daily work was essential. I have carried that 
passion with me throughout my career. As I step into this new role, I remain 
committed to doing what is right and good for our many stakeholders. 
Since our earliest days, the pursuit of continuous improvement has been at 
the heart of everything Danaher does. The challenges facing our society and 
humanity present both an opportunity and a responsibility for us to do and 
be better. Unified by Our Shared Purpose  of Helping Realize Life’s Potential  and 
empowered by the Danaher Business System (DBS) , our more than 60,000 global 
associates address today’s challenges while continuing to make meaningful 
progress on our three sustainability pillars: Innovation  that fuels compelling 
advances across an array of scientific disciplines; the People  at the heart of 
our teams, along with their families and communities; and, the Environment  
that sustains us. I offer a few highlights here and you will see much more in the 
pages that follow.GRI:  102-14
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FROM OUR CEO
4Innovation
Danaher’s sustainability efforts begin with innovation. In 2019, 
we invested over $1 billion toward research and development 
across our businesses. Our teams work to address some of the most 
pressing health and safety challenges of our time while making a 
difference in the lives of our customers and those they serve every 
day.
There is no more urgent challenge in 2020 than the COVID-19 
pandemic, and I’m incredibly proud of our operating companies’ 
fast, innovative response to this crisis. Cepheid, IDT and Beckman 
Coulter played a vital role as early leaders in the COVID-19 
diagnostic testing effort. T o date, our businesses have collectively 
enabled or produced more than 60 million COVID-19-related 
diagnostic tests.
At the same time, we proactively support the scientific community 
in their pursuit of new COVID-19 vaccines and therapeutics.  Pall 
and Cytiva’s products and solutions are involved in most of the 
vaccine and therapeutic research efforts currently underway.
People
We believe The Best T eam Wins , and our efforts around diversity 
and inclusion are an important part of how we are building the best 
team—one that fully reflects who we want to be. Danaher’s highest 
levels of management drive our diversity and inclusion strategy 
with input and oversight from our Board. I am excited about our 
two newest Board members, Dr. Jessica Mega and Dr. Pardis Sabeti, 
whose scientific expertise and unique perspectives enrich our work 
in some of the most promising areas of healthcare and life science 
research.Realizing the full potential of our people requires that we foster a 
diverse and inclusive culture and commit to eliminating systemic 
bias. In doing so, we aim to create a work environment in which all 
our associates come to work each day as their authentic selves while 
differentiating ourselves as an employer of choice.
As we reflect on the most recent examples of racial injustice 
occurring in the U.S., we recognize that we must accelerate the pace 
of change within our organization as we continue our commitment 
to diversity and inclusion. We emphatically support our Black 
colleagues, and the entire Black community, in calling for respect, 
justice, equality and peace. We are working to give voice to these 
issues and to create opportunities for associate learning, listening 
and support.
In the spirit of transparency and accountability, we have established 
two key diversity goals for 2025. We seek to increase our 
representation of women associates globally to 40% from 35% in 
2019. And we seek to increase our People of Color representation 
among U.S. associates to 35% from 31% in 2019. Our intention is to 
better reflect the richly diverse communities in which we live, work 
and serve our customers.GRI:  102-14
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FROM OUR CEO
5Environment
Core to our sustainability strategy is our stewardship of the 
environment and protecting precious resources for future 
generations. Our commitment to the environment is longstanding, 
with businesses such as Hach, ChemTreat and Trojan directly 
safeguarding water throughout the world for more than 50 years. 
Across Danaher, we have long considered the environmental impact 
of our products and operations—and continually strive to improve 
on this front.
We have established three clear goals to ensure our commitment 
translates to meaningful action. By 2024, we pledge a 15% reduction 
in energy use, a 15% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions (both normalized to annual revenue) and a 15% decrease 
in the percentage of non-hazardous/non-regulated waste sent to 
landfills or incinerators, in each case compared to 2019 levels. T o 
help us operationalize these environmental improvements, we have 
enhanced our DBS toolkit with energy management and waste 
reduction resources.
We make this pledge against the backdrop of the meaningful 
environmental solutions our teams provide to the world. I am 
personally inspired by their daily work to keep raising the bar and do 
more to fulfill our obligations as global stewards of the environment.Helping Realize Life’s Potential
We live and work in complex times. Nonetheless, Danaher always 
strives to exceed the expectations of our shareholders, customers 
and associates, and we know that when we come together to build 
a better world, our potential is limitless. Our innovative portfolio, 
the dedication of our passionate people, and our deeply ingrained 
commitment to continuous improvement amplify our opportunity 
to create a positive, long-term impact. As we rise-up to meet the 
world’s challenges in this unique moment, I see a bright future ahead 
for all of us.  Thank you for your partnership as we build and sustain 
this future together.
Rainer M. Blair  
President and CEO
THANKS TO OUR 
ASSOCIATESSustainability holds special meaning for each of us. Thank you to our associates around 
the world, whose original photography submissions make this report uniquely Danaher.
Look for the          icon next to photos by this year’s photo contest winners!Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 DANAHER AT A GLANCE
6
Leaving nothing but footprints by Nelson T o, Radiometer associate
DANAHER AT A GLANCE
Helping Realize Life’s Potential
Highlights 7 Sustainability at Danaher 10
Our Story 8 Our Businesses 11
How We Work 9Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 DANAHER AT A GLANCE
7 GRI:  102-7, 201-1DANAHER AT A GLANCE
Danaher is a global science and 
technology innovator committed 
to helping customers solve 
complex challenges and improving 
quality of life around the world.
HIGHLIGHTS
$17.9B
2019 REVENUE ASSOCIATES60,000+
OPERATING COMPANIES 
AROUND THE WORLD20+We enable meaningful innovation in some of 
today’s most dynamic, fast-growing industries. 
Through our operating companies based around 
the world, our groundbreaking businesses 
transform the fields of life sciences, diagnostics, 
water quality and product identification.
LIFE SCIENCES 
2019 REVENUE$7.0B
DIAGNOSTICS 
2019 REVENUE$6.6B
ENVIRONMENTAL & APPLIED SOLUTIONS 
2019 REVENUE$4.4B
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 DANAHER AT A GLANCE
8 GRI:   102-3, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7HQ:    
Washington, DC
Near T elescope Peak, Death Valley National Park  by 
Vasiliy Lukyanenko, Beckman Coulter associateDANAHER AT A GLANCE
Our Story
As a family of more than 20 operating companies and a globally diverse team of more than 60,000 
employees (whom we refer to as associates), we enable meaningful innovation in some of today’s 
most dynamic, fast-growing industries. From our headquarters in Washington, D.C., and throughout 
our global operating companies, our innovative businesses transform the fields of life sciences, 
diagnostics, water quality and product identification by:
• Helping  scientists around the world work at a molecular level to understand 
chronic disease and infection, develop new therapies and test new drugs,
• Providing  critical tools and software for clinicians to safeguard patient health, 
improve diagnostic confidence, and enhance patient care worldwide,
• Ensuring  the freshness and safety of food, pharmaceuticals and consumer 
goods, and
• Protecting  our global water supply and promoting environmental stewardship.Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 DANAHER AT A GLANCE
9 GRI:   102-16DANAHER AT A GLANCE
How We Work
Our Shared Purpose
Our Shared Purpose —Helping Realize Life’s 
Potential— captures our inspiration for 
everything that we do. We innovate new 
products to meet changing customer needs, 
address emerging societal challenges, 
facilitate healthcare accessibility, and help 
ensure a cleaner, safer environment.
Our Core Values
Our Core Values  guide us in our pursuit 
to make every day better than the last, 
whether we’re supporting our customers, 
creating tomorrow’s breakthrough 
innovations, developing our teams or 
delivering long-term shareholder value: 
• The Best T eam Wins
• Customers T alk, We Listen
• Kaizen Is Our Way of Life
• Innovation Defines Our Future
• We Compete for ShareholdersThe Danaher Business System
The Danaher Business System (DBS)  has 
been the foundation of our performance 
and culture since the earliest days of 
our company. The world has changed 
meaningfully since then, and our DBS tools 
and processes continue to evolve along 
with it. DBS helps us navigate our toughest 
challenges, deliver innovative products and 
solutions, grow our businesses and develop 
the very best teams.  DBS is who we are and 
how we do what we do. Guided by our Core Values, DBS drives 
a continuous cycle of innovation and 
improvement. Exceptional people develop 
outstanding plans and use proven tools to 
execute sustainable processes, resulting 
in superior performance. Superior 
performance and high expectations attract 
exceptional people, who continue on the 
path. Guiding our efforts are four simple, 
customer-facing priorities: quality, delivery, 
cost and innovation. 
“We strive to be a purpose-led, high performance company which relies on the 
strength of the Danaher Business System and a commitment to integrity, compliance 
and sound governance to realize life’s potential for all our stakeholders.”
—RAINER M. BLAIRDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 DANAHER AT A GLANCE
10GRI:   102-18, 102-20, 102-21, 102-29, 102-32, 102-43, 102-47
TCFD:  GovernanceDANAHER AT A GLANCE
Sustainability at Danaher
In 2017, with the support of a consultant, 
Danaher conducted an extensive materiality 
assessment to identify the intersection of 
Danaher’s key strategic and sustainability 
goals. The assessment incorporated feedback 
from a range of internal and external 
stakeholders, and included a review of peer 
best practices. The results of this assessment 
formed the basis of our sustainability program, 
which is structured around three sustainability 
pillars.
We believe in harnessing Danaher’s scale and 
resources to drive companywide sustainability 
initiatives where it makes sense, while 
leveraging the power of our decentralized 
operating structure to enable our operating 
companies to pursue sustainability in ways 
that best fit the needs of their particular 
stakeholders.
In the spirit of continuous improvement, we 
continue to actively seek feedback on our 
sustainability program from our customers, 
associates and investors. We share this 
feedback with our management Sustainability 
Committee and our Board’s Nominating and 
Governance Committee, and Compensation 
Committee, as applicable, to help inform their 
decision-making and improve our program.Sustainability Oversight
At the Board level, Danaher’s Nominating 
and Governance Committee oversees 
matters of sustainability and social 
responsibility as set forth in the committee’s 
charter.
At the management level, Danaher’s Senior 
Vice President and General Counsel, who 
reports directly to our President and CEO, 
has general oversight responsibility with 
respect to matters of sustainability and 
social responsibility, and is responsible 
for reviewing and approving Danaher’s 
sustainability reports.
Danaher’s Sustainability Committee at the 
corporate level helps drive our strategy. The 
committee consists of our Vice President 
of Environment, Health and Safety; our 
Vice President, Deputy General Counsel 
and Secretary; and our Vice President of 
Corporate Communications. The committee 
reports to Danaher’s Senior Vice President 
and General Counsel.Sustainability Pillars
Our sustainability strategy is built around 
three pillars: 
These pillars are supported by a 
foundation of integrity, compliance 
and sound governance, which 
we refer to as the Foundational 
Elements  of our sustainability 
program. Our dedication to 
operating with integrity underlies 
our approach to every area of our 
business, including sustainability. Innovation  
Helping Solve Problems Through 
Innovation
People  
Helping People Reach Their 
Potential
Environment  
Helping Protect the Environment
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 DANAHER AT A GLANCE
11 GRI:  102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 201-1DANAHER AT A GLANCE
Our Businesses
LIFE SCIENCES
Every day, scientists around the world work to understand the 
causes of disease, develop new therapies and test new drugs. 
Our Life Sciences businesses make this leading-edge scientific 
research possible. Our capabilities extend beyond research 
to power the creation of biopharmaceuticals, cell and gene 
therapies, and more to advance patient health and improve 
treatment outcomes.
$7.0 BILLION
2019 REVENUEDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 DANAHER AT A GLANCE
12 GRI:  102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 201-1DANAHER AT A GLANCE  /  OUR BUSINESSES
DIAGNOSTICS
Our Diagnostics businesses provide healthcare professionals 
with clinical instrumentation and software that help safeguard 
patient health and improve diagnostic confidence across all 
settings—from local clinics and family physicians’ offices to 
leading trauma, cancer and critical care centers. Our data 
access solutions and management systems improve efficiency 
and automate workflows in laboratories, helping healthcare 
professionals provide better patient care. 
$6.6 BILLION
2019 REVENUE
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 DANAHER AT A GLANCE
13 GRI:  102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 201-1DANAHER AT A GLANCE  /  OUR BUSINESSES
ENVIRONMENTAL &  
APPLIED SOLUTIONS
From innovative consumer packaging to drinking water 
purification, our Environmental and Applied Solutions (EAS) 
businesses help protect precious resources, and keep our global 
food and water supplies safe. EAS is comprised of two platforms: 
Water Quality and Product Identification. Water Quality
As the world’s population increases, so does the demand for our 
most precious resource: Water. Our Water Quality businesses 
help protect the global water supply and enable environmental 
stewardship. We deliver precision instrumentation, advanced 
purification technology and treatment solutions to help analyze, 
disinfect and manage the world’s water across residential, 
municipal, commercial and industrial applications.
Product Identification
Every day, we count on high-quality packaging to ensure 
freshness, consistency, safety and authenticity of products 
around the world. Our Product Identification businesses 
provide color management, package design, marking and coding 
technologies used to help protect the world’s food supply, secure 
pharmaceutical packaging and track consumer goods.$4.4 BILLION
2019 REVENUE
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC
14
Our Response 
to the Global 
COVID-19 
Pandemic
Danaher’s comprehensive response 
to the COVID-19 pandemic has 
focused on supporting our associates, 
customers and communities.
Supporting Our Associates 15
Champions for Our Customers 16
Caring for Our Communities 19Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC
15OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC
Supporting Our 
Associates
From the earliest days of the COVID-19 outbreak in 
Wuhan, China, through global stay-at-home orders, 
to today, Danaher has remained steadfast in our 
commitment to protect our associates’ health and 
safety. We mandated remote work where feasible and 
implemented restrictions on non-essential travel. T o 
protect our essential workers, who continued to do in-
person work, we mandated face masks in all Danaher 
facilities and increased other safety measures, 
including, where applicable, staggered work shifts and 
required social distancing.
Our Global Response Team  
Our Global Response T eam actively monitors and manages 
our COVID-19 business response and is responsible for im -
plementing protocols consistent with U.S. Centers for Dis -
ease Control and Prevention (CDC) and World Health Orga -
nization (WHO) guidance to safeguard our associates’ health.Pay Continuity & Expanded Benefits  
We have continued to pay associates who are not able to work due to COVID-19 
illness or quarantine and have aligned our pay policies to encourage associates to 
stay home when sick.
We are also providing extra support for associates to balance work and dependent 
care commitments, including emergency paid sick leave, unpaid leaves of absence 
with return-to-work job security and U.S. Emergency Family and Medical Leave 
Act leave. Furthermore, our partnership with Bright Horizons  helps associates find 
subsidized, qualified childcare providers, tutors, elder care, pet care and more. 
Danaher’s employee assistance program (EAP) is available to all global associates 
and their immediate families, providing support for their mental wellbeing during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. The EAP provides ongoing, virtual mindfulness and 
resiliency programming to our associates along with one-on-one counseling and 
expert referrals, if needed.
Facilitating Virtual Work  
The pandemic has changed the way many of us work, intensifying our associates’ 
need for technological support and ways to work virtually as a team. We have 
invested in technology and equipment to make the transition to working remotely 
as seamless as possible for our associates. We quickly pivoted our in-person 
events and trainings to accommodate our virtual world, including changing 
how we apply many of our DBS tools. Our continuous improvement philosophy 
ensured that our teams were ready to tackle the challenges of taking conferences, 
team meetings, kaizen events and trainings virtual with minimal disruption.
Keeping in Touch with Our Associates  
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we surveyed our associates to understand 
their needs and personal situations, and to see how they’re doing. Based on results 
of our annual Associate Engagement Survey, 88% of surveyed associates felt 
satisfied with the company’s efforts to care for associates during the pandemic, 
while 93% of associates agreed that their leaders took actions to maintain a safe 
work environment, whether on-site or remote.  We have used this input to adapt 
our support services to address the evolving challenges facing  
our global workforce.Work from home  by Chrystal Moore, Danaher Corporate associate
GRI:   401-2
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC
16OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC
Champions for Our Customers
We are immensely proud of our operating companies’ 
responses to the challenges brought on by the 
pandemic—especially their efforts to provide our 
customers with uninterrupted service throughout 
2020. Our businesses serve critical roles, and most 
were deemed essential even at the height of stay-
at-home orders. Our manufacturing teams and field 
workers were quick to adapt to the new business 
environment and emphasized safety first to ensure our 
customers were able to deliver on their commitments 
as well.
Notably, many of our operating companies are directly 
involved in the global effort to diagnose, treat and 
protect against COVID-19.Enabling Critical Diagnostics
Diagnostic testing has been a critical component of the global community’s at -
tempts to better understand and ultimately curb the spread of COVID-19, and 
Cepheid  has been a leader in this effort. In March, Cepheid launched the first rap -
id molecular test for COVID-19 that provides highly accurate results within 45 
minutes. Multiple independent studies indicate that Cepheid’s test performance is 
best-in-class versus other point-of-care platforms on the market today, providing 
superior virus detection with one of the fastest time-to-results. As a testament 
to Cepheid’s continued commitment to tackle this global health crisis, the com -
pany recently received Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) from the U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) for their Xpert Xpress SARS-CoV-2/Flu/RSV test, 
a rapid molecular diagnostic four-in-one test for detection of the viruses causing 
COVID-19, Flu A, Flu B and RSV from a single patient sample. 
GRI:   203-1, 203-2Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC
17OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC  /  CHAMPIONS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Integrated DNA T echnologies (IDT) was the first company in the U.S. 
to offer ready-to-use primer and probe kits for use as a key component 
of the CDC EUA testing protocol for the diagnosis and detection of 
COVID-19. The company has produced primer and probe kits to enable 
more than 45 million tests to be conducted in the U.S. pursuant to the 
CDC EUA testing protocol.T o help pathologists safely view and diagnose pathology cases from re -
mote locations rather than in a hospital setting, the FDA has permitted 
Leica Biosystems  to enable remote diagnosis using the company’s Ape -
rio ImageScope DX Viewer and Aperio AT2 DX Scanner. This solution 
provides pathologists with the tools they need to deliver the best and 
most accurate care for patients, regardless of physical location.
Beckman Coulter’s  IgM and IgG serology assays determine if a patient 
has developed an immune response to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Antibody 
assays could potentially play an important role in understanding im -
munity and, in turn, improving the world’s ability to manage COVID-19 
going forward.Surges in hospitalized patients being treated for COVID-19 have in -
creased demand for Radiometer’s  blood gas instruments and tests 
which measure the amount of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood 
— key parameters to monitor in critically ill patients. With the largest 
global installed base of blood gas instruments, Radiometer is well-po -
sitioned to support clinicians and patients throughout the COVID-19 
pandemic.
GRI:   203-1, 203-2
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC
18OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC  /  CHAMPIONS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Advancing Research
Beckman Coulter Life Sciences ’ viral RNA extraction kits and auto -
mation support research workflows related to COVID-19 real-time 
PCR testing. Their RNAdvance Viral XP extracts viral RNA from swab 
samples, an essential step in the overall workflow. After extraction, the 
collected RNA is used in qRT-PCR kits to test whether the RNA from a 
virus is present, yielding a positive or negative test result.
Molecular Devices  is supporting scientists who are researching 
COVID-19 cellular response and vaccine development with microplate 
readers, washers, biopharma and cellular imaging systems.
Supporting Vaccine & Therapy Development
As we look beyond testing, a global race is on to find effective 
treatments, vaccines and therapeutics for the virus. As of the date of 
this report, Pall  and Cytiva’s  products and solutions are involved in 
the majority of the more than 250 vaccine and therapeutic projects 
currently underway globally, including every COVID-19 vaccine 
candidate that is part of U.S. Operation Warp Speed. Pall and Cytiva’s 
leading offerings across the bioprocessing workflow make both 
companies well-positioned to help bring vaccines and therapies to 
market faster. In addition to their filtration, chromatography and 
single-use technologies, Pall and Cytiva’s innovative teams provide 
customers with extensive technical expertise to enable breakthrough 
development and production capabilities.
Pall’s Process Development Services team is helping customers scale 
up vaccine production processes at an unprecedented pace. In a 
process that normally takes place over the course of several months, or 
even years, the team has designed processes, delivered equipment to 
labs and run initial on-site tests in a matter of weeks.
GRI:   203-1, 203-2
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC
19OUR RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC
In addition to caring for our associates and customers, 
we have extended our financial support to nonprofit 
organizations focused on COVID-19 relief efforts. In 
the early days of the pandemic, Danaher operating 
companies were among the first to respond, donating 
nearly $1.5 million in diagnostic equipment, reagents 
and other products to hospitals in Wuhan, China. 
Since then, our community response has continued 
to include donations of medical instruments, testing 
supplies, and other services and equipment to 
countries and regions impacted by COVID-19. For 
example, Cepheid donated 100,000 Xpert Xpress 
SARS-CoV-2 virus rapid molecular diagnostic tests 
through The Stop TB Partnership .
Danaher and our associates made a combined $1.5 
million donation to four organizations on the front 
lines of COVID-19 relief:
Danaher also accelerated more than $200,000 of our planned 
2020 giving to our partner organizations , allowing them to more 
effectively manage their organizational priorities in response to 
COVID-19 impacts.• WHO: COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund  provides support globally to 
help prevent, detect and respond to the pandemic. This fund is powered 
by the United Nations Foundation.
• Save the Children and No Kid Hungry  is focused on ensuring vulnerable 
families have access to food and on reducing severe disruptions to 
children’s education in a time when many school systems are closed.
• Feeding America  is the largest hunger-relief organization in the United 
States. Their COVID-19 Response Fund enables food banks to secure 
the resources they need to serve the most vulnerable members of the 
community during this difficult time.
• Direct Relief  coordinates with public health authorities, 
nonprofit organizations and businesses globally to provide 
personal protective equipment (PPE) and essential 
medical items to health workers responding to COVID-19.
GRI:   203-1, 203-2 Our associates practicing good safety measures while at work.Caring for Our 
Communities
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 INNOVATION
20INNOVATION
Helping Solve Problems Through Innovation
Highlights 21 High Impact in Developing Markets 25
Innovation Defines Our Future 22 Medical Device Product Quality 26
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 INNOVATION
21INNOVATION
We develop leading-edge 
diagnostic tools, advance life-
saving research, and protect our 
global food and water supplies.
HIGHLIGHTS
7,711
TOTAL PATENTS WORLDWIDE 
AT THE END OF 2019
>$1.1 BILLION
INVESTED IN R&D IN 2019Our technologies advance research, 
improve human health and protect the 
environment, enhancing quality of life 
today and setting the foundation for a 
better world for future generations.
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 INNOVATION
22INNOVATION
Innovation 
Defines Our 
Future
Innovation helps us meet—
and exceed—our customers’ 
expectations. By advancing 
research, improving human health 
and protecting the environment, our 
technologies enhance quality of life 
today and set the foundation for a 
better world for future generations.
GRI:   203-2
Expanding Partnerships for Sepsis Prevention
Sepsis is a difficult-to-diagnose, life-threatening condition that affects 20-
30 million people worldwide every year, and has a mortality rate of almost 
40%. Devastating patient consequences and substantial costs to healthcare 
organizations make sepsis a significant global health concern. Through strategic 
partnerships, prevention and awareness campaigns and, most importantly, 
the development of our groundbreaking technologies, Danaher’s Diagnostics 
businesses have taken a lead role in improving these outcomes.
In 2019, Beckman Coulter began a partnership with Dascena  and the Biomedical 
Advanced Research and Development Authority ( BARDA ) to develop a hospital-
wide diagnostic solution for sepsis prediction. This machine-learning-based sepsis 
detection algorithm, which uses Beckman Coulter’s DxH Early Sepsis Indicator  in 
conjunction with elements from patients’ electronic medical records, is expected to 
help reduce sepsis mortality through earlier intervention while reducing the total 
cost of care.
With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, this partnership was expanded to study 
the early prediction of viral-induced sepsis. Until recently, the majority of sepsis 
cases were thought to be caused by bacterial pathogens, and COVID-19 has caused 
a shift in how clinicians approach treatment decisions for this condition.
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 INNOVATION
23INNOVATION  /  INNOVATION DEFINES OUR FUTURE
GRI:  203-1, 203-2Credit: NASA/JPL -Caltech
Breakthrough Gene Therapy 
for Children
In 2019, Pall contributed to a breakthrough 
pediatric gene therapy, Zolgensma® , 
which is manufactured using Pall’s iCELLis 
bioreactor. Zolgensma® is the first gene 
therapy to treat children under the age of 2 
who suffer from spinal muscular atrophy—
the leading genetic cause of death for 
infants.Friendly Competition Yields 
Transformative Ideas
In January 2020, Cytiva launched Innovation 
Accelerator , an internal seed-funding 
program created to source and scale in-
house innovation. Cytiva’s first challenge, 
Planet Business, invited associates to create 
business opportunities with significant 
positive impacts for the environment and 
customers. More than 1,300 associates 
presented 125 ideas over 2 months. Six 
teams were selected to participate in 
an 8-week innovation bootcamp and, 
ultimately, received a total of $3.8 million 
in funding to execute their ideas for up to 
12 months. The funded projects include 
new ways to work with single-use plastics, 
perform remote factory acceptance 
testing, improve manufacturing processes 
with regard to water use, chemicals and 
additive manufacturing, and develop more 
sustainable product packaging.XOS Headed to Mars on 2020 
Perseverance Rover
NASA’s 2020 Perseverance Rover was 
launched into space this summer and is 
expected to land on Mars in early 2021. 
XOS is playing a key role in the mission, 
supplying the rover with a custom 
polycapillary X-ray focusing optic  housed 
in an instrument called PIXL at the end 
of the rover’s robotic arm. The XOS optic 
will be used in conjunction with six other 
instruments to measure compositions of 
various chemical elements in rocks, soils 
and more in the search for evidence of past 
life on the red planet.
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 INNOVATION
24INNOVATION  /  INNOVATION DEFINES OUR FUTURE
Protecting Our Intellectual Property
Danaher and our associates take seriously our duty to 
protect the company’s intellectual property. Relevant 
associates are required to take annual training to 
understand the implications of unauthorized disclosure or 
misuse, during or after their employment, for Danaher and 
our customers. Associates who create intellectual property 
are required to follow Danaher and operating company 
policies and processes for identifying and protecting our 
intellectual property. 
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 INNOVATION
25INNOVATION
High Impact 
in Developing 
Markets
Our strategy for growth delivers breakthrough 
innovations that serve diverse populations 
around the world. Developing markets continue 
to offer a tremendous opportunity for impact. 
We have dedicated significant resources 
to understanding the needs of populations 
in these markets, developing products that 
address local requirements, and improving 
our commercial strategies and partnerships to 
expand access to our innovative products. In 
2019, 32% of our sales came from developing 
markets.
GRI:   102-6, 203-1,203-2
A New Life for Cytiva Equipment
Through a partnership  with Seeding Labs , Cytiva is 
helping great ideas take root. Cytiva’s Giving Back 
to the Science Community initiative has facilitated 
the donation of over $250,000 worth of well-
maintained lab equipment to talented researchers 
at 19 universities in 10 developing countries since 
2016. This equipment has helped researchers 
perform West Africa’s first large-scale study of 
antibiotic residues in drinking water, fight the rapid 
spread of Lyme disease among forestry workers in 
Ukraine and develop easier ways to administer life-
saving antimalarial medicines to children in Ghana.
Cepheid Enhances Global Access 
Cepheid is leading the charge against tuberculosis 
(TB), garnering support from major global partners 
including the Foundation for Innovative New 
Diagnostics, StopTB, USAID, UNITAID and the Bill 
and Melinda Gates Foundation. Cepheid’s High 
Burden Developing Country  (HBDC) program, which 
launched in 2011, has delivered thousands of 
GeneXpert Systems and millions of Xpert cartridges 
to some of the world’s most TB-challenged regions. 
Cepheid’s HBDC program continues to expand with 
the additions of remote calibration, cloud-based 
data consolidation initiatives and additions to the 
Xpert test menu.
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 INNOVATION
26INNOVATION
Medical Device Product Quality
GRI:  102-12Regulatory Framework & Our Risk Profile
Danaher’s subsidiaries make and sell diagnostics, life sciences, 
water quality and product identification products and solutions. 
Certain of these products are medical devices that are regulated 
by the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Our 
medical device manufacturing sites are required to adhere to all 
applicable quality system regulations and requirements, including 
with respect to the U.S. the Current Good Manufacturing 
Practices (“CGMP”) requirements set forth in the FDA’s Quality 
Systems Regulation (“QSR”) and in Europe and other countries 
around the world the ISO 13485 Medical Devices Quality 
Management System Standard (“ISO 13485”). 
The risk profile of our medical device portfolio differs from that 
of many of our medical device peers. Our medical devices consist 
primarily of products used to collect, prepare, organize and 
examine specimens in vitro. Medical professionals may take into 
account results generated from our products, often with other 
factors, in diagnosing and treating patients. By comparison, many 
of our peers primarily produce medical devices that are implanted 
into, or applied to, the human body, which may carry greater risk 
of injury to the human body.
The FDA’s risk classification of our medical devices reflects these 
points and illustrates that with few exceptions, our medical 
devices are classified as low or medium risk. The chart to the right 
categorizes the FDA-registered sites of Danaher’s subsidiaries 
based on the risk classification of the devices produced at the site.FDA Registered Sites of Danaher’s Subsidiaries (as 
of July 2020)
(Classified by Highest-Risk Device Produced at Site)Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 INNOVATION
27INNOVATION  /  MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT QUALITY
Centralized Compliance Standards & Controls
The Danaher Code of Conduct  requires that the medical devices 
we make and sell strictly comply with all applicable rules and 
regulations. T o help ensure compliance, we deploy common Quality 
Management Systems (QMS) standards and controls across 
our medical device operating companies to drive the safety and 
effectiveness of these products and services. Below are highlights of 
these standards and controls.
REGULATORY, QUALITY, & CLINICAL AFFAIRS KPIS  
We require our operating companies to track and report on a regu -
lar cadence key performance indicators (KPIs) designed to provide 
transparency, drive accountability and measure the health of our 
QMS. These required KPIs focus on pre-market and post-market 
product and QMS performance, covering areas such as internal and 
external audits, supplier and internal corrective and preventive ac -
tions (CAPAs), complaints, external defects, clinical trials, recalls and 
adverse events. KPI goals are established for each medical device 
operating company, and we leverage our DBS tools to help us meet 
these goals. Danaher’s executive leadership reviews these KPIs on a 
regular basis, in addition to established QMS reviews by our operat -
ing company leadership.
CORPORATE AUDIT PROGRAMS  
Annually, Danaher’s corporate staff audits our sites registered with 
the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s regulations relating to Good 
Manufacturing Practices (GMP), including product testing and sup -
plier evaluation and monitoring, medical device reporting, recalls, 
FDA establishment registrations and device listings. With respect 
to medical device sites regulated by comparable regulators in other 
countries, the corporate audit staff typically includes those appli -
GRI:   417-1
cable regulatory requirements in their audit protocols, including as 
applicable the ISO 13485 standard and Medical Device Single Audit 
Program (MDSAP) requirements. Danaher’s corporate audit func -
tion also regularly audits our businesses to help ensure compliance 
with Danaher’s and the applicable operating company’s policies 
regarding responsible marketing, advertising and promotional pro -
cedures, and practices and training.
ANNUAL COMPLIANCE TRAINING  
The KPI and auditing controls described above are bolstered by 
GMP-specific annual training requirements. All associates em -
ployed by our medical device operating companies, including senior 
management, are required to participate in annual training covering 
GMP compliance, and compliance with laws governing the advertis -
ing and promotion of our products.Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 INNOVATION
28INNOVATION  /  MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT QUALITY
Regulatory Inspections
As a medical device manufacturer, our manufacturing facilities are 
subject to inspection on a routine basis by the FDA and by similar 
agencies in other countries. The FDA inspects (and independent 
certification organizations designated by non-U.S. regulatory 
authorities audit) registered medical device sites using a risk-
based process, taking into account the risk profile of the products 
manufactured by the site. In connection with an inspection, the 
FDA may issue Form 483 Inspectional Observations, Warning 
Letters, and/or consent decrees, which list conditions or practices 
that may indicate a violation of the FDA’s requirements. The chart 
to the right illustrates our FDA inspection performance from 2017 
through 2019.
Recalls
A medical device recall can include actions ranging from a labeling 
change or an in-field correction to a partial or full removal of the 
product from the market, depending on the nature of the issue 
and the risk to public health. Medical device recalls are typically 
conducted voluntarily by the manufacturer but may also be 
mandated by the FDA. Recalls are required to be reported to the 
FDA if the recall was initiated to reduce a risk to health posed by 
the device or to remedy a violation of applicable law caused by 
the device which may present a risk to health. The FDA classifies 
recalls as Class I (highest risk), Class II or Class III (lowest risk) 
based on the relative degree of health hazard posed by the recall. 
The table to the right illustrates our FDA recall activity from 2017 
through 2019, with the number of recalls declining significantly 
over time.
SASB:  HC-MS-250a.1, HC-MS-250a.4FDA Inspection ResultsDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 INNOVATION
29INNOVATION  /  MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT QUALITY
Danaher Reliability System
We deploy a common framework and suite of processes across our 
operating companies to drive product quality and reliability, known 
as the Danaher Reliability System (DRS). The DRS is one of the 
DBS fundamental tools, and operates across the product lifecycle. 
It consists of six pillars: leadership focus on reliability, design for 
reliability, Supplier Quality Management, Manufacturing Process 
Control, customer service and support, and customer defect 
tracking and resolution. The DRS both supports and incorporates 
the medical device regulatory requirements described on the 
previous page as applicable but goes beyond such requirements 
with the goal of driving world-class reliability.Supplier Quality Management
As noted, one of the DRS pillars is Danaher’s Supplier Quality 
Management (SQM) system. The iterative elements of SQM 
include a supplier performance measurement process, supplier 
performance monitoring process, supplier corrective action 
process, supplier performance improvement process and criteria 
to effectively qualify a supplier. Where necessary, suppliers are 
trained on DBS tools, which are deployed at the supplier to fix 
problems and improve performance. The SQM both supports and 
incorporates applicable medical device regulatory requirements, 
including supplier audits where required.
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
30PEOPLE
Helping People Reach their Potential
Highlights 31
Personal Potential 33Diversity + Inclusion 40
Our T eam 32
Professional Potential 36In Our Communities 48
Safety 50
Coming T ogether at 2019 Black Leadership SummitDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
31PEOPLE
We are a diverse team of people and 
operating companies, each with 
unique missions and challenges. Yet, 
we are united by a Shared Purpose 
that motivates us to achieve our 
most ambitious goals.
HIGHLIGHTS
40%
WOMEN (AS % OF TOTAL ASSOCIATES)35%
PEOPLE OF COLOR IN THE U.S.6.5%
Global Voluntary Turnover 
in 2019
74%
Senior Leader Internal Fill Rate 
in 2019Our success is rooted in our people. 
We offer unique and compelling career 
experiences with opportunities spanning 
multiple high-impact industries, six 
continents and more than 20 operating 
companies. 
YEAR 2025 GOAL YEAR 2025 GOAL
35% as of Year 2019 33% as of Year 2019
GRI:  401-1, 404-2Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
32PEOPLE
Our Team
60,000
NUMBER OF ASSOCIATES AT THE END OF 2019
21,000
ASSOCIATES IN THE U.S.
39,000
ASSOCIATES OUTSIDE OF THE U.S.Danaher is committed to attracting, engaging 
and retaining the best people from around the 
globe to build and sustain our company. With 
our focus on building a sense of inclusion and 
belonging among our associates, we are creating 
a richly diverse company where good ideas 
thrive and gateways to success abound.
GRI:  102-7Celebrating Holi “festival of colors”  by 
Geonyoung Kim, Cepheid associate
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
33PEOPLE
Personal Potential
GRI:  102-35, 102-37, 401-2Health, Wellness & Financial Stability
Danaher’s health and wellness benefits support our 
associates’ wellbeing and respond to their needs. Each 
associate can select from a range of physical fitness, 
emotional resilience and financial stability programs 
according to his or her individual goals. In 2020, we 
expanded our employee assistance program (EAP) to 
support our associates globally.
Collective Bargaining
Of Danaher’s 21,000 U.S. associates, approximately 
300 were hourly-rated, unionized associates at 
the end of 2019. Outside the U.S., the company 
has government-mandated collective bargaining 
arrangements and union contracts in certain countries, 
particularly in Europe where many associates are 
represented by unions and/or works councils.Compensation
We are committed to offering competitive compensation and benefits, tailored to 
geography, industry, experience and performance. Danaher’s compensation programs 
and practices are designed to attract associates, motivate and reward performance, 
drive growth and support retention. In general, compensation at Danaher includes base 
salary and often some form of variable bonus or incentive opportunity. In addition, 
certain associates receive long-term compensation in the form of Danaher equity 
awards. 
How We Compensate Executives
The goal of our executive compensation program is to build value for our shareholders. 
The program is designed to reward executive officers who build long-term shareholder 
value, achieve annual business goals and maintain long-term careers with Danaher. Our 
program’s emphasis on long-term equity awards, tied closely to shareholder returns and 
subject to significant vesting and holding periods, has been fundamental in attracting 
skilled executives, encouraging them to build long-term careers with Danaher, and 
motivating them to achieve sustainable operating and financial performance through 
a range of economic cycles. We provide our shareholders an opportunity to cast an 
annual advisory vote with respect to the compensation of our named executive officers, 
as disclosed in our annual proxy statement  (the “say on pay proposal”). At Danaher’s 
annual meeting of shareholders in 2020, 95% of the votes cast were in favor of the say 
on pay proposal. Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
34PEOPLE  /  PERSONAL POTENTIAL
Associate Relief Fund
Launched in 2019, the Danaher Associate Relief Fund facilitates associate-
to-associate giving in the aftermath of a natural disaster. Primarily funded 
by associate donations, with additional contributions from Danaher and our 
operating companies, the fund exists to support our own associates who 
may be facing financial hardship immediately after a natural disaster, and 
supplements support they may receive from other organizations, such as the 
Red Cross.
Danaher Scholarship Program
The Danaher Scholarship Program helps reduce the financial burden of higher 
education costs for Danaher families. In 2019, we helped fund the academic 
pursuits of 75 of our associates’ children at colleges and universities around 
the globe. The recipients—22 new scholars and 53 renewals—were selected 
based on academic record, demonstrated leadership, participation in school 
and community activities, honors, work experience, and a statement of 
goals and aspirations. Since its inception, the Danaher Scholarship Program 
has provided more than $3 million in scholarship awards to support the 
development, growth and potential of our next generation. 
Family Friendly Benefits & Parental Leave
Danaher’s paid parental leave policy offers new parents in the U.S. and U.S. 
expatriates up to 8 weeks of 100% paid leave within the first year of a child’s 
birth, adoption or foster care placement.
In 2020, Danaher added Maven  to its list of family-friendly benefits for 
associates in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Maven offers around-the-
clock support for every step of parenthood—from fertility treatments and 
adoption, to maternity leave and return to work, to breast milk shipping and 
mental health.
GRI:  203-2, 401-2, 401-3
SPOTLIGHT: SUPPORTING ASSOCIATES IN INDONESIA
Jakarta, Indonesia was hit with devastating flooding 
on January 1, 2020, leaving nearly 200,000 people in 
emergency shelters. Danaher’s Associate Relief Fund 
was ready to help associates from Pall’s filtration facility 
who were impacted. According to one associate, “Our 
house’s ground floor was under 1.7 meters of water 
and mud for two consecutive days. The electricity was 
out, and with a newborn baby in the house, it was a 
challenging situation. Pall leaders paid attention and  
monitored our condition closely … they informed me that 
I was eligible for the Danaher Associate Relief Fund. It 
was really a blessing for our family, and did help us to 
mend our house and help us to recover our normal life. 
Thank you, thank you and thank you. ”Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
35PEOPLE  /  PERSONAL POTENTIAL
Volunteer Time Off
Our associates are helpers in and out of the 
workplace. They know that time spent in the 
service of others provides the perspective, 
gratitude, focus and inspiration that makes 
them happier and more productive at work 
and home. Danaher operating companies, 
including Beckman Coulter, Cepheid, Esko and 
IDT, support their associates’ commitment to 
volunteerism with team volunteer days and 
volunteer time off. 
GRI:  203-2, 401-2Beckman Coulter associates giving back to the 
community and making a lasting impact
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
36PEOPLE
Professional Potential
GRI: 404-2, 404-3Learning & Development
From individual contributors to managers and senior leaders, we help our associates 
realize their full potential with meaningful career development opportunities. Our typical 
approach to talent development includes a mix of on-the-job learning (70%), coaching 
(20%), and leadership and DBS training (10%).Professional associates with a 
development plan at the end of 201990%Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
37PEOPLE  /  PROFESSIONAL POTENTIAL
We believe that on-the-job learning and direct coaching provides our associates with 
the most consistent and impactful development opportunities. We complement this 
daily learning with a robust leadership development and learning curriculum designed to 
provide our associates at all levels with the skills and knowledge to succeed at Danaher. 
Select examples of Danaher’s Leadership Development curriculum include:
Many of Danaher’s learning programs are facilitated by our own certified 
practitioners, who undergo formal train-the-trainer programs before receiving 
certification. Danaher has more than 650 certified practitioners covering every major 
region in which we operate.• Leadership Essentials:  An 
introductory boot camp supporting 
new managers in developing winning 
teams.
• Coaching Essentials:  A skills-
based training program designed 
to help people leaders accelerate 
development, improve performance 
and bring out the best in their people.
• Maximizing Leadership Performance: 
A course designed to help mid-level 
leaders become more effective 
managers.
• Accelerated Learning Program:  A 
course focused on developing high-
potential leaders, their teams and their 
organization to drive future results.• Danaher Leadership Program: A 
course to provide new-to-role General 
Managers and Presidents with 
foundational knowledge and skills 
framed around Danaher’s Core Value 
Drivers and leadership competencies.
• Functional Leadership Development 
Program: Our 12-month “Learn-Do-
T each” program helps commercial and 
support leaders develop solid DBS 
Fundamentals, coaching, prioritization 
and change, and talent management 
skills.
• Executive Champion Orientation and 
DBS Leadership Orientation: Programs 
that immerse new leaders in the DBS 
culture through the introduction 
of DBS fundamentals and hands-on 
experience with DBS tools.
GRI:  404-2ASSOCIATE SPOTLIGHT: LINDSAY GALAS
Lindsay Galas joined Videojet in 2012 as a 
Global Vertical Marketing Manager after 
working in investment banking and earning her 
MBA. Through Danaher’s General Manager 
Development Program (GMDP), Lindsay has 
rotated through the business and partnered 
with mentors, gaining exposure to DBS, 
strategy, product management, consumables 
and customer care. She has also played a part 
in major transitions in Videojet’s marketing, 
service and customer experience strategies. 
This year, Lindsay moved into her current role 
as Global Vice President, DBS, Videojet where 
she can employ her diverse skill set and broad 
knowledge on a daily basis. Lindsay says, “The 
fact that I’m always able to grow and change 
and have new challenges is what keeps me here. 
I feel like I can add value to the business in 
different ways at different times. ”
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
38PEOPLE  /  PROFESSIONAL POTENTIAL
Learning DBS
Danaher Business System University (DBSU) helps associates 
develop DBS competencies and capabilities needed to drive results 
at Danaher. DBSU provides a wide variety of learning opportunities, 
both virtually and at physical locations around the world (U.S., 
China, India and Germany). The DBSU curriculum and offering span 
formal classroom-style training, peer best-practice sharing and 
engagement, and action learning through kaizens.
Learning Management System
In 2020, Danaher launched a global learning management 
system (LMS) to serve as the hub of our associates’ learning and 
development journey. Using Workday’s learning platform, Danaher 
associates have access to numerous digital learning courses and DBS 
kaizens and bootcamps. 
GRI:  404-2
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
39PEOPLE  /  PROFESSIONAL POTENTIAL
Danaher Go
At any one time there may be more than 
1,000 available career opportunities across 
Danaher. We strive to fill our open roles 
with our own talented associates whenever 
possible. Danaher Go is our commitment to 
hiring and growing careers from within. Our 
internal policy champions this commitment 
by empowering associates to pursue intra-
Danaher career moves with full support 
from their manager and senior leadership.Performance for Growth
Our Performance for Growth process 
supports our performance-based 
rewards system, ensuring that high-
performing associates are recognized 
for their contributions. The process 
also encourages managers to provide 
ongoing, real-time performance feedback 
throughout the year to ensure associate 
success and development.
Engagement
Our engagement strategy focuses on developing the best workplace 
and leaders to meet our associates’ needs every day. We conduct an 
annual engagement survey to measure our progress and are proud to 
report that 2019 results reflect another year of meaningful progress 
on this journey, and our sixth consecutive year of improvement. In 
2019, 92% of associates participated in the survey, and Danaher’s 
score improved across all dimensions.Talent Recruitment
Our team focuses on identifying, attracting and recruiting diverse 
talent to meet current and future business needs across the 
organization. Bringing in early-career talent is particularly important 
for the company as it provides meaningful opportunities for us to 
support the next generation’s long-term career aspirations. We partner 
with organizations to support our university internship and leadership 
development programs in operations, STEM, general management and 
human resources. 
Danaher’s diverse talent acquisition strategy is focused on increasing 
underrepresented talent throughout the company. We partner 
with the National Black MBA Association, the Society of Women 
Engineers, Reaching Out MBA, National Society of Black Engineers 
and The Consortium, among others. Danaher’s partnership with The 
Consortium, for example, is a key partnership for our early-career 
talent acquisition strategy and helps infuse a consistent and reliable 
flow of underrepresented MBA talent into the company. 
GRI:  404-2, 404-3
Senior leader internal 
fill rate in 201974%
Associates who 
received performance 
reviews in 201995%
Associate engagement+19
Direct supervisor effectiveness+17BETWEEN 2013 AND 2019:
PERCENTAGE POINTS PERCENTAGE POINTSDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
40PEOPLE
At Danaher, our aspiration is to continuously 
improve and sustain a diverse and inclusive 
culture free of systemic bias and create a work 
environment in which all associates can bring 
their true selves to work.
We know that diversity and inclusion (D+I) 
are essential to our success because real 
breakthroughs come from teams that think 
big, encourage all voices to be heard and 
learn from diverse perspectives. By building 
and maintaining a culture rooted in diversity 
and inclusivity, we maximize the unique 
perspectives and fresh ideas necessary to 
drive innovation, fuel our growth and ensure 
our technologies and products effectively 
serve a global customer base. 
GRI:  405-1
Diversity + 
Inclusion
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
41PEOPLE  /  DIVERSITY + INCLUSION
Diversity Metrics
We aspire to increase the diversity of our leadership teams and associate 
populations around the globe. It is the right thing to do.  We know a diverse 
workforce strengthens Danaher by ensuring our associate population reflects 
our broad customer base. In addition, diverse work teams create more innovative 
solutions and products to better meet the needs of the marketplaces we serve.
At Danaher, metrics, in tandem with the rigor and focus of DBS, are vital tools that 
drive our accountability and quantify our progress. 
Our diversity and inclusion journey began many years ago, and we now believe 
we have the structure and planning in place to set 5-year diversity representation 
goals. As a first step, we have established goals to improve gender representation 
globally and People of Color in the U.S. and will use our progress against these 
goals to help assess the progress of our D+I efforts.
GRI:  102-15, 405-1Hope - Black Lives Matter March  by Robert Winter, Danaher Corporate associate
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
42PEOPLE  /  DIVERSITY + INCLUSION
D+I Strategy & Oversight
Danaher’s Senior Vice President of Human Resources 
oversees the Office of Diversity and Inclusion, which is led 
by our Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion. T ogether, 
they are responsible for developing and managing 
our D+I strategy as well as supporting programming 
and initiatives that advance that strategy. In addition, 
Danaher’s President & CEO is a signatory to the CEO 
Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge, setting a clear 
“tone at the top” regarding D+I’s critical importance to 
Danaher.
The Danaher Diversity + Inclusion Council, which includes 
Danaher’s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, 
Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion, several Danaher 
executive officers and representatives from each of 
Danaher’s platforms, is responsible for:
• Overseeing  the company’s D+I strategic direction;
• Creating  accountability measures for the company; and
• Helping  operationalize D+I initiatives and programming 
across all of our operating companies.
Danaher’s Board of Directors reviews and provides input 
on Danaher’s D+I strategy at least annually. Our Board 
members also have opportunities during the year to 
engage directly in D+I programming.
GRI:  102-12, 102-20OPCO SPOTLIGHT: SOCIAL MEDIA FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE
With 2.7 million Instagram followers and counting, Pantone is 
committed to using its platform to stand up against intolerance and 
support social justice around the world. This year, Pantone:
• Created the color Ultra Black  in collaboration with hip-hop legend 
Nas. Ultra Black, inspired by Nas’ hit song of the same name, is an 
electrifying, unifying force representing the richness, complexity 
and profound beauty of Black culture.
• Partnered with designer Fuzzed Up Bear to form The Human Being 
Initiative , a line of merchandise created to engage, educate and 
empower the public in support of racial equality. All proceeds from 
The Human Being Initiative sales directly benefit the work of the 
American Civil Liberties Union .
T o learn about other initiatives Pantone supports, browse the 
company’s Instagram  feed.
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
43PEOPLE  /  DIVERSITY + INCLUSION
D+I Training
Danaher’s suite of leadership development courses includes 
targeted D+I training on unconscious bias and creating leader 
accountability for diversity. In 2019, Danaher launched Growing 
Inclusive T eams, our global diversity and inclusion training that 
teaches associates how to identify and understand the impacts of 
D+I, and how to recognize and mitigate personal bias. The course is 
deployed globally and available in 13 languages.
Associate Resource Groups & Diverse Talent 
Mentoring
Danaher has five Associate Resource Groups (ARGs).
• African Descent & Friends
• Asian Descent & Friends
• Latinx & Friends
• LGBTQ & Friends
• Women & FriendsARGs are currently open to North American exempt associates who 
identify as the target demographic and eligible “& Friends” to aid 
in inclusion. We expect to launch ARGs in geographies outside of 
North America soon.
Our ARGs offer mentoring and coaching programs that help under-
represented talent forge connections among themselves and with 
a broad group of Danaher leaders and outside professionals. One 
example is the Women & Friends ARG coaching program, which 
provides an opportunity for women to access one-on-one coaching 
with a licensed career development professional. “To enhance Danaher’s Shared Purpose by en -
suring associates are realizing their full po -
tential while increasing the representation of 
high-potential diverse talent at all levels of the 
organization.”All ARGs share a common charter:
GRI:  405-1Beaming with PRIDE
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
44PEOPLE  /  DIVERSITY + INCLUSION
Diversity + Inclusion Around the World
We localize our D+I initiatives in an effort to ensure associates 
experience inclusion in ways that are relevant to their geography 
and culture.
In 2019, Danaher hosted the first Danaher North Asia Women’s 
Leadership Summit in Shanghai, China. More than 100 women 
leaders from China, Japan and South Korea came to network, 
learn and reflect on issues women face at Danaher and in North 
Asia. T opics spanned work-life balance, career opportunities and 
visibility and learning from role models.
Leaders from Danaher’s operating companies across Europe have 
formed the European D+I T ask Force to accelerate our diversity 
and inclusion journey in Europe. Reporting directly to Danaher’s 
EU Board and the D+I Council, the task force is charged with 
developing a regional D+I action plan and has identified three 
initial focus areas:
• Increasing women in managerial roles through development, 
mentorship, sponsorship and coaching to elevate potential 
leaders, and recruiting diverse talent into Danaher at all levels,
• Building an inclusive culture through the rollout of D+I training 
programs, such as Growing Inclusive T eams and Speed of Trust, 
to help leaders foster inclusive teams, and
• Extending ARGs to Europe.
GRI:  405-1
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
45PEOPLE  /  DIVERSITY + INCLUSION
Supporting Our Black Associates
Danaher emphatically supports our Black colleagues and the 
entire Black community in calling for respect, justice, equality and 
peace. Danaher, like many global companies, has been reflecting 
on the most recent examples of racial injustices in the U.S., and 
we’re working to amplify Black voices and provide tangible, visible 
support to the Black community.
Within Danaher, we have elevated these issues and created 
opportunities for associate learning, listening and support. 
T ogether with our operating companies, we are working to inspire, 
engage and activate all managers to make personal commitments 
to build and sustain a truly diverse and inclusive organization. We 
continue to review internal practices and act upon experiences 
unique to our Black associates to ensure an inclusive culture.
We also publicly expressed our support with a giving campaign 
focused on organizations supporting Black communities. In total, 
Danaher, our operating companies and our associates committed 
more than $500,000 to four non-profits: 
GRI:  405-1
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
46PEOPLE  /  DIVERSITY + INCLUSION
LGBTQ+ Equality
Danaher is committed to speaking out against discrimination 
and injustice in our communities. Over the past decade, we have 
shown our support for our LGBTQ+ associates and the community 
by signing several amicus briefs in important U.S. Supreme 
Court cases. Most recently, we have supported cases affirming 
that sexual orientation and gender identity discrimination are 
prohibited under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.
Through our longstanding partnership with the Human Rights 
Campaign  (HRC), the largest LGBTQ+ civil rights organization in 
the U.S., we are building a more inclusive workplace for LGBTQ+ 
associates. For the sixth year in a row, the 2019 Human Rights 
Campaign Corporate Equality Index (CEI) named Danaher 
one of the Best Places to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality. The CEI 
evaluates LGBTQ+-related policies and practices including non-
discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, 
transgender-inclusive health care benefits, competency programs 
and public engagement with the LGBTQ+ community.
GRI:  102-12
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
47PEOPLE  
Commitment to 
Human Rights &  
Anti-Discrimination
As a global company, we are committed to upholding the dignity of every person 
and supporting efforts to protect human rights around the world.
Our policy is to comply with all applicable laws pertaining to fair employment 
practices, freedom of association, privacy, collective bargaining, immigration, 
working time, wages and hours as well as laws prohibiting forced labor, compulsory 
labor, child labor, employment discrimination and human trafficking. We will not 
tolerate the abuse of human rights in our operations.
Our Code of Conduct  outlines our associates’ obligations to help detect and prevent 
human rights abuses, including:
• Reporting any suspicion or evidence of human rights abuses in our operations or 
in the operations of our business partners to their manager, or through our Speak 
Up! Hotline.
• Respecting human dignity in daily interactions with one another, customers and 
business partners.
• Promoting diversity and inclusion, accommodating disabilities and helping 
protect the rights and dignity of everyone with whom we do business.
West Dundee Riverwalk along the Fox River 
by Jennifer Mitros, Videojet associate
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
48PEOPLE
In Our Communities
GRI:203-1, 203-2Corporate Partnerships
Through the Danaher Foundation, we provide direct financial 
support to organizations that advance our vision of improving 
quality of life around the world. The Foundation’s financial 
support focuses on four areas: STEM education, healthcare 
research and discovery, diversity, and disaster preparedness/
community engagement. T o the right are some of the partners 
the Foundation supports.We believe in being a good steward of the communities 
in which we live and work. Danaher and our operating 
companies routinely support our local communities 
by engaging in charitable partnerships, team events, 
local fundraisers and more. In addition to corporate 
initiatives, many of our operating companies fund 
and administer programs that are important to their 
particular stakeholders.
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
49PEOPLE  /  IN OUR COMMUNITIES
Kids Go Virtual for Charity in China
For the past four years, Danaher’s operating companies in China have 
supported Adream , an organization focused on improving access to 
quality education for children in remote parts of China. This year, our 
annual fundraiser went virtual to serve a dual purpose: celebrating 
International Children’s Day, and engaging our associates and their 
families during the COVID-19 pandemic. With themes of wonder, 
future and home, our associates’ children submitted their work to 
be displayed in our Adream Virtual Auction & Art Gallery. A curated 
collection of the children’s’ pieces is featured in a 2021 calendar, with 
online sale proceeds donated to Adream.Showing Heart at the Invention Convention
Every year, over 100,000 students from around the world submit 
creative and sometimes life-changing inventions to The Henry 
Ford Museum’s Invention Convention . This year, Danaher provided 
32 judges for the U.S. national competition and sponsored the 
Innovation in Medical T echnology Award to recognize a student who 
has successfully addressed a problem in health, medical technology 
or healthy living. The winner of the 2020 Danaher Innovation in 
Medical T echnology Award was eighth-grader Ana-Lois Davis, who 
developed the CPR smart glove  to guide users through CPR in life-or-
death situations.
GRI:  203-1, 203-2
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
50PEOPLE
Associate safety is deeply embedded in our culture. We emphasize workplace safety to ensure our associates feel good about 
coming to work, and that they leave safe and healthy at the end of every shift. We are proud that workplace safety consistently 
receives the highest scores in our annual Associate Engagement Survey. Our 2019 safety score exceeded the top-quartile 
benchmark of our survey administrator’s global clients and has increased every year since our survey began in 2013.
GRI:  403-1, 403-2, 403-9Safety
Protecting Our Associates
Each of our operating companies has processes to protect our 
associates and facilities from fire and natural hazards and assure 
business continuity. We continually invest to safeguard our teams 
and facilities. Our emphasis on improving our crisis management 
and business continuity plans helps ensure the physical, financial 
and emotional wellbeing of our associates during natural disasters 
and other emergencies.
1 Incident rates are defined as the number of work-related injuries or illness cases serious 
enough to require treatment beyond first aid, per 200,000 hours worked.
2 Days Away, Restricted or Transferred are defined as the number of work-related inju -
ries or illness cases that result in an employee working with physical restrictions, being 
away from work or unable to do their job or transferring to other work, per 200,000 hours 
worked.2015
Launched 4E EHS Hazard Control 
T oolkit.
2017
Introduced leading EHS indicators, such 
as “near misses” and safey observations, 
into our Daily Management process 
to reduce exposure to hazards in our 
workplaces.
Initiated 4E Certified Practicioner 
training and certification.2016
Introduced layered EHS self-audits 
and kamishibai , a DBS virtual tool that 
helps sustain operational safety, good 
housekeeping, and fire protection 
systems and controls.
2018
Incorporated controls for hazards 
with the potential for serious 
injuries or fatality, and expanded 
tools for managing exposures. 
Began development of DBS Energy 
Management T oolkit. 
2020
Expanded use of the DBS Energy 
Management T oolkit worldwide, 
began process of certifying associates 
as Certified Practitioners in Energy 
Management, and started pilot testing 
a DBS Waste Minimization tool.2019
Began implementing DBS Energy 
Management T oolkit to reduce energy 
consumption at our major facilities. 
Initiated Energy Management 
Certified Practitioner training and 
certification.Our 4E Toolkit
This DBS-based set of tools enables our associates to identify, assess 
and control hazards related to the four Es: ergonomics, energetics, 
exposures and environment. Over the past 5 years, we have built, 
expanded and refined our 4E portfolio of management tools.Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 PEOPLE
51PEOPLE  /  SAFETY
Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Policy
Our Environment, Health and Safety policy  establishes the core 
principles upon which our EHS management programs are built. 
Our operating companies put our policy into practice, using DBS 
to integrate EHS requirements into their operations and to sustain 
results.
EHS Risk Management Process
We revised our EHS risk assessment process in 2016 to place 
greater emphasis on controlling operational risk and using DBS to 
manage EHS risk. We assign an EHS risk score to each of our major 
facilities on a semi-annual basis, assessing 16 criteria against four 
levels of performance. Facility-level teams set risk reduction targets 
and maintain action plans to improve their scores. Senior leaders 
from Danaher and each operating company assess our levels of 
facility risk multiple times each year. 
We also employ engineering best practices as a standard element 
of our facility design, construction and modification processes to 
protect our facilities against fire, flood, wind and earthquake. In 
addition, each major facility has an action plan to further reduce 
these risks and sustain past improvements.Protecting Our Facilities
Danaher maintains Business Interruption Analysis (BIA) and 
Business Continuity Plan (BCP) tools and templates that are used 
by newly acquired businesses to improve their resilience, and by 
existing operating companies to guide change management and 
sustain protections against business interruption.  In particular, our 
BIA tools guide an assessment of interdependencies between the 
manufacturing facilities within a particular operating company; an 
analysis of the financial, product delivery and other impacts of the 
loss of a given facility for a maximum foreseeable period of time; 
and development of strategies to minimize the impact of such loss 
on our ability to provide products to our customers.  Our operating 
companies use the BCP tools to implement their strategies for 
minimizing impact to our facilities, associates and customers.BETWEEN 2010 AND 2019, OUR 
OPERATING COMPANIES REDUCED 
DANAHER’S WORKPLACE INCIDENT (TRIR) 
AND INJURY RATES (DART) BY OVER 60%.
GRI:   403-1, 403-2, 403-9Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT
52ENVIRONMENT
Helping Protect the Environment
Highlights 53 DBS & The Environment 56
Our Approach to Environmental Impact 54
Environmental Metrics & Goals 55Our Water Quality Business 58
Contributing to a Greener Future 26
Common Merganser- Female  - Rattray Marsh, Ontario  by Feng Zhong, SCIEX associateDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT
53ENVIRONMENT
We focus on reducing the 
environmental impact of our 
operations and products, and 
helping our customers do the same.
HIGHLIGHTSDanaher and its operating companies are 
focused on reducing the environmental 
impact of our operations and our products. 
Our operating companies have a long history 
of enacting environmental sustainability 
programs and other green initiatives.
15%
REDUCTION IN PERCENTAGE 
OF NON-HAZARDOUS/ NON-
REGULATED WASTE SENT TO 
LANDFILLS OR INCINERATIONYEAR 2024 GOAL
15%
REDUCTION IN ENERGY 
CONSUMEDYEAR 2024 GOAL
(normalized to annual revenue from 
continuing operations) 15%
REDUCTION IN SCOPE 1 AND 
2 GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) 
EMISSIONSYEAR 2024 GOAL
(normalized to annual revenue from 
continuing operations) Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT
54ENVIRONMENT
Our Approach to 
Environmental 
Impact
We are committed to reducing the environmental 
impact of our operations and products, and to 
helping our customers do the same. Our operating 
companies have a long history of leading environmental 
sustainability programs and other green initiatives, and 
developing more efficient technologies, processes and 
services.
Raincloud over Great Barrier Reef  by Jake Ford, Pall Medical associateDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT
55ENVIRONMENT
Environmental Metrics & Goals
In 2020, the Danaher leadership team committed 
to the following 5-year environmental impact 
reduction goals (based on 2024 performance 
compared to 2019 performance):
GRI: 102-15, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 303-1, 303-5, 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5, 306-3, 306-4 
TCFD: Metrics and T argets
15%
REDUCTION IN PERCENTAGE OF NON-HAZARDOUS/ 
NON-REGULATED WASTE SENT TO LANDFILLS OR 
INCINERATIONYEAR 2024 GOAL15%
REDUCTION IN ENERGY CONSUMEDYEAR 2024 GOAL
(normalized to annual revenue from continuing operations) 
15%
REDUCTION IN SCOPE 1 AND 2 GREENHOUSE 
GAS (GHG) EMISSIONSYEAR 2024 GOAL
(normalized to annual revenue from continuing operations) Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT
56ENVIRONMENT
DBS & The Environment
DBS helps our teams remove muda , or waste, from our processes. In setting 
environmental impact reduction goals, we naturally turned to DBS to help 
operationalize our approach and drive our success.
Beginning in 2018, we took some of our most effective DBS tools and processes to 
create two DBS Environmental Sustainability T oolkits. The benefits of these toolkits to 
our environment are significant and measurable, and they have helped reduce our cost 
of operations.Fluke-up Dive  by Rahul Baghla, SCIEX associateDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT
57ENVIRONMENT  /  DBS & THE ENVIRONMENT
DBS Energy Management Toolkit
The DBS Energy Management T oolkit guides our facility-level teams in identifying, 
prioritizing and implementing measures that improve energy efficiency and 
reduce GHG emissions.
Our teams use the toolkit to establish a thorough understanding of energy 
consumption and identify areas for improvement in the form of an Opportunity 
Assessment. Next, the teams develop energy management action plans based on 
the following framework, and implement those plans using a variety of DBS tools: 
• Envision: Collect and analyze electricity and gas usage data. Establish long-
term and short-term reduction goals. Establish clear roles and responsibilities.
• Investigate:  Go to gemba —the physical location where work gets done—to 
identify and map all systems, processes and pieces of equipment that use 
electricity and natural gas. Use the guidelines and checklists in the Energy 
Management T oolkit to identify and prioritize opportunities for improvement 
and develop an action plan. 
• Implement: Systematically execute the action plan. Measure the impact and 
track results. 
• Sustain:  Monitor performance at regular intervals, keep stakeholders engaged 
and add new opportunities for impact to the action plan.
DBS Waste Minimization Toolkit
Our facility-level teams use the DBS Waste Minimization T oolkit to evaluate 
current-state waste generation, identify opportunities for improvement and 
implement comprehensive waste minimization strategies. The toolkit follows the 
waste management hierarchy of controls—avoid, reduce, reuse, recycle, recover 
energy, treat and dispose. The teams develop and implement waste management 
action plans based on this framework.
GRI:   302-4SPOTLIGHT: GETTING STARTED AT HACH
The DBS Energy Management T oolkit helped Hach’s 
Ames, Iowa, and Loveland, Colorado, teams identify 
over $150,000 in potential annual savings from 
energy reduction opportunities.
The Ames facility also employed the DBS Waste 
Minimization T oolkit to address an inefficient quality 
control process that required disposal of hazardous 
samples suspected to be contaminated. The team’s 
rigorous analysis eliminated the need to dispose of 
quality control samples, reducing hazardous waste 
generation by 4 tons.
SPOTLIGHT: PROGRESS AT PALL
Pall has deployed the DBS Energy Management 
T oolkit at its facilities in Portsmouth and Ilfracombe, 
UK; Hoegaarden, Belgium; Crailsheim, Germany; 
Timonium, Maryland; and New Port Richey, Florida. 
Kaizen teams identified nearly 100 opportunities 
for improvement, with a potential for $2.7 million 
in annual savings and 10,844 metric tons of CO2e  
reduction. Pall has implemented more than 50 of 
these projects, realizing over $1 million in annual 
energy cost savings and reducing annual carbon 
emissions by 6,000 metric tons CO2e.
Pall’s Cortland, New York, and Timonium, 
Maryland, sites also recently piloted the DBS Waste 
Minimization T oolkit, reducing the amount of waste-
to-landfill by 30% and saving over $125,000.
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT
58ENVIRONMENT
Our Water Quality Business
Danaher’s Water Quality businesses help safeguard our global water supply, as they 
have done for decades. Our passionate teams of water experts dedicate their careers 
to helping customers meet environmental goals, implement best practices and innovate 
products beyond compliance requirements.The North Pole Ice-Glaciers  by Laura Bas, Cytiva associateDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT
59ENVIRONMENT  /  OUR WATER QUALITY BUSINESS
Supporting Our Customers’ 
Sustainability Goals
The ability to protect water sources 
and maximize water use efficiency are 
critical for many ChemTreat customers. 
ChemTreat’s unique model offers water-
intensive production facilities custom 
sustainability programs that identify 
opportunities to reduce water use, improve 
the operational performance of capital 
assets and implement water-efficient 
solutions. For example, partnership with 
ChemTreat helped a North American 
brewer save over 40 million gallons of 
water in 2019 and over 566 million gallons 
of water in the past seven years. Thanks 
to ChemTreat, the customer is on track 
to meet or exceed its 2025 sustainability 
goal of 22% water reduction across ten 
breweries.Anticipating New Regulations 
on the Sea
In 2020, the International Maritime 
Organization (IMO) adopted regulations 
that require commercial vessels to reduce 
ozone-depleting pollution caused by 
sulfur oxide emitted in ship exhaust. Hach 
and XOS have led the way with creative 
solutions to help operators comply with 
these regulations and other more stringent 
emissions requirements in the U.S.
One of the most cost-effective methods 
to meet these air-quality standards is 
to clean onboard exhaust systems by 
spraying seawater onto raw gas emitted 
from ship engines, reducing the amount 
of sulfur oxide content expelled into the 
atmosphere Hach’s PAH500 sensor ensures 
the seawater used for exhaust scrubbing 
meets purification standards before it is 
discharged back into the sea.
Meanwhile, XOS makes it easier to adhere 
to IMO rules with its High Definition X-Ray 
Fluorescence, a next-generation regulated 
element detection technique that allows 
operators to monitor sulfur levels in fuel.Supplier of the Year in 
Sustainability
As part of Boeing’s  Go 4 Zero workplace 
safety program, ChemTreat has provided 
closed loop, cooling and boiler water 
treatment for the company’s locations 
across the U.S. since 2012. ChemTreat 
has expanded this relationship and 
was named Boeing’s 2019 Supplier of 
the Year in Sustainability. ChemTreat’s 
specialized technical service team planned, 
implemented and tracked a sustainability 
program to reduce Boeing’s water usage, 
energy consumption and carbon footprint. 
ChemTreat’s innovative CTVista+ 
monitoring system and cost-savings 
project tracking were key to understanding 
Boeing’s unique system needs and solving 
its water treatment and savings challenges. 
GRI:  203-1, 203-2, 303-1All working in unison....Nature and Mankind  by Rebecca Little, Cepheid associate
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT
60ENVIRONMENT
Contributing to a Greener Future
GRI: 203-1, 203-2, 302-4
Smart Solutions Reduce 
Cytiva’s Environmental Impact
Cytiva’s manufacturing site in Uppsala, Sweden 
produces resins used in the development 
and manufacture of therapeutics, which is 
an energy-intensive process. T o comply with 
environmental regulations, the facility adjusts 
the temperature of water sent to the municipal 
sewage treatment plant using an innovative 
system developed by Adven , a provider of low-
carbon energy and water solutions. In the 
process, Cytiva captures heat given off by the 
system to help warm the premises for its 1,200 
associates and reduce energy consumption. 
Between 2018 and 2019, the Uppsala facility 
decreased its energy consumption related to 
heating by 25%, a great stride toward its goal 
of reducing the energy usage of its operations 
by 30% by 2030.Pall’s Commitment to Sustainability
For more than a decade, Pall has demonstrated its commitment to environmental 
sustainability through creative, customer-centered solutions and community engagement 
opportunities for associates. Here are some highlights from 2019.
• Pall celebrated the 50th anniversary of 
Earth Day by purchasing 285 metric tons 
of carbon offsets, the equivalent of a day’s 
worth of Pall global emissions.
• 14 Pall teams from around the world joined 
the Ocean Conservancy’s International 
Coastal Cleanup event, collecting a total 
of 1,710 pounds of trash from 20 miles of 
beach.
• Over 500 associates joined Pall’s annual 
ten-day waste reduction challenge, 
reducing waste by 2,500 kg at our Fajardo, 
Puerto Rico and Hoegaarden, Belgium 
facilities alone.
• Design improvements from production 
materials teams at Pall’s Deland, Florida 
and Timonium, Maryland sites removed 
over one million linear feet of spiral wrap 
and six metric tons of glue from customer 
waste streams within a year.• Pall’s Pensacola, Florida, facility continues 
to engineer waste out of its operations, 
focusing on increasing onsite recycling. 
Recently, the team demonstrated 
that two chemicals used onsite can be 
recycled multiple times before disposal 
as hazardous waste. The site increased its 
recycling rate by over 20% in 2019.
• Pall’s Harborgate, UK facility celebrated its 
seventh consecutive year of zero waste to 
landfill for all operations.
• Pall’s Milan, Italy facility generated over 
130,000 kWh from solar power. That’s 
enough energy to power the facility for 
more than 40 days.
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT
61ENVIRONMENT  /  CONTRIBUTING TO A GREENER FUTURE
Breathe Easy
Over 90% of the world’s population live in 
areas where air pollution exceeds WHO 
thresholds, leaving them more vulnerable 
to cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. 
With such enormous repercussions, the 
validity of air pollution data is critical to 
protecting human health. Companies and 
researchers in 190 cities and 50 countries 
around the world use Cytiva’s Whatman 
filters to efficiently and effectively collect 
reliable air quality samples. Whatman 
filters are designed to help produce reliable 
test results in a variety of applications, even 
in the harshest industrial stacks and flues. A Sustainable Future for 
Fashion
Pantone is proud to support a more 
sustainable future for the fashion industry 
by partnering with brands who are leading 
the charge. Pantone recently collaborated 
with sustainable sneaker brand Cariuma  
to create both a Pantone Color of the Year 
Classic Blue sneaker and a fall 2020 Pantone 
sneaker collection. The Pantone fall capsule 
collection was inspired by the vibrant 
colors found around the world during the 
fall season and taken from PantoneView 
Colour Planner palettes. All Pantone styles 
are 100% vegan, and made with organic 
cotton canvas and ethically tapped natural 
rubber. For every pair of Pantone X Cariuma 
sneakers purchased, Cariuma will plant 
a pair of trees in the Brazilian rainforest, 
to directly aid reforestation and the 
preservation of our endangered species’ 
natural habitat.Native Plantings at Leica 
Grove
Fourteen departments from Leica 
Biosystems’ UK facility recently dedicated 
over 800 cumulative hours to plant 2,500 
native trees on a former animal grazing 
paddock, forming a corridor for endangered 
wildlife. The team has committed to a long-
term partnership with the local municipality 
for the maintenance of this tract of land. 
With plans to plant native wildflowers, 
Leica Biosystems hopes that Leica Grove 
will become an area associates can connect 
with through work and in their personal 
time as the plantings mature and wildlife 
returns.
GRI:  203-1, 203-2
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
62FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Ethics, Compliance & Governance
Highlights 63 Our Board of Directors & Management T eam 69
Our Culture 64
Ethical Business Conduct 65
Ethical Workplace 67Risk Oversight 73
Policies 75
Leading T oday and T omorrow, 2019 North Asia Women’s Leadership SummitDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
63FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
At Danaher, we are committed to 
maintaining high ethical standards 
and complying with all applicable 
laws, wherever we do business.
HIGHLIGHTSWe believe, with conviction, that acting with 
integrity at all times is the foundation for 
success, both individually and together. Our 
internal integrity and compliance motto – 
Your Integrity, Our Success – says it all.
98%
OF IN-SCOPE ASSOCIATES COMPLETED 
CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING AND RELATED 
CERTIFICATION IN 2019
IR MAGAZINE AWARDS
BEST CORPORATE GOVERNANCE:  
2014, 2015, 2018
BEST INVESTOR RELATIONS PROGRAM IN HEALTHCARE:  
2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020
BEST OVERALL INVESTOR RELATIONS PROGRAM:   
2018Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
64FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Our Culture
Danaher’s culture is rooted in a strong 
foundation of integrity and sound governance, 
and our sustainability program reflects this 
same commitment. Our operating companies 
have developed trust with their associates, 
customers and local communities over decades. 
And at Danaher, we have always recognized the 
importance of reputation to our success, which is 
why we are committed to maintaining the highest 
ethical standards and complying with all applicable 
laws, wherever we do business. 
Growth during tough times  by James Leo Antony, Pall associate
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
65FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Ethical Business Conduct
Danaher is committed to doing business with 
integrity at every level of our organization. Our 
corporate ethics and compliance function is 
responsible for Danaher’s Code of Conduct and 
related policies and programs that govern how we 
interact with customers, colleagues and business 
partners, and market our products and services. 
All Danaher operating companies are required 
to implement and comply with these policies and 
programs. #TheBestT eamWins, Shanghai One Site, China
GRI : 102-12, 102-16, 205-1, 205-2Ethical Interactions with Healthcare Professionals
Danaher’s Code of Conduct  requires that we comply with all applicable laws 
and regulations, including all applicable laws and regulations that govern our 
promotional activities and our educational and commercial relationships with 
healthcare professionals. In an effort to help advance compliance, Danaher is a 
member of AdvaMed, and our Diagnostics businesses have adopted AdvaMed’s 
Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals . Danaher associates in 
relevant businesses receive information and training about these requirements 
in a number of ways, including online and in-person trainings and periodic 
communications.
We support industry initiatives and U.S. federal and state regulatory requirements 
to make information about certain payments or transfers of value to healthcare 
professionals publicly available. A number of other countries also have similar 
disclosure requirements. In the U.S., this information is published on the U.S. 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Open Payments website . Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
66FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS  /  ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT
Countering Bribery & Corruption
Bribery and corruption are risks for all global enterprises. 
Preventing, detecting and responding to these risks, as well as 
maintaining accurate books and records, is an important priority for 
Danaher and its operating companies.
All Danaher associates must comply with our Code of Conduct , 
Global Anti-Corruption Policy and related policies as well as 
all applicable laws and regulations, and we reinforce these 
expectations with annual training for Danaher associates. Our 
administrative, business, technical, professional, management and 
executive new hires are required to complete mandatory Code of 
Conduct  and anti-corruption training as part of their orientation 
process and on an annual basis thereafter. 
We also support and monitor our third-party sales partners, such as 
distributors, through our Channel Partner Management compliance 
programs, including our Channel Partner Code of Conduct . Pursuant 
to this program:
• We conduct due diligence on our third parties in an effort to 
ensure adherence to our compliance standards and reduce 
potential risk before the channel partner is approved to conduct 
business on behalf of a Danaher operating company. Diligence is 
risk-based and conducted at periodic intervals.
• Our sales channel partners and many other third-party 
intermediaries are required to complete our Anti-Corruption 
Program (ACP) training, which is a condition to a Danaher 
operating company entering into or renewing a contract.Responsible Marketing to Customers & 
Patients
We require all associates who market directly to healthcare 
providers to follow Danaher’s Code of Conduct , the Danaher Product 
Marketing, Advertising and Promotion Policy (which addresses 
the use of any type of marketing used to inform or persuade target 
audiences of the relative merits of a product, service, brand or 
issue), the Danaher Social Media Guidelines for FDA-Regulated 
Operating Companies (which addresses information used on 
social media and other online platforms to advertise and promote 
products and services), as well as the AdvaMed Code of Ethics on 
Interactions with Health Care Professionals . Danaher’s Code of Conduct  
requires that we promote our medical products solely based on 
their approved labeling, that we sell our products through accurate 
and truthful communications, and that all information provided 
to others about our medical products be truthful, balanced and 
supported by data and relevant experience..
GRI:  102-16, 205-1, 205-2, 417-1
SASB: HC-MS-270a.1; HC-MS-270a.2; HC-MS-510a.2;IN 2019, DANAHER INCURRED NO 
MONETARY LOSSES AS A RESULT OF 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ASSOCIATED WITH 
FALSE MARKETING CLAIMS.Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
67Well-established, Danaher-wide policies and 
programs (including the Code of Conduct ) reinforce 
our culture of integrity within the workplace. 
These include the ethics and compliance systems 
described in this report and, in some cases, the use 
of data analytics to identify and mitigate risks. We 
look to industry best practices and benchmarks to 
track our performance against our peers.
Every Danaher associate is personally accountable 
for compliance with our ethics and integrity 
policies. The Integrity Anchor (“Models Humility, 
Transparency and Integrity”) is one of the 
five Leadership Anchors that guide annual 
performance reviews at Danaher, and managers 
numerically score associate performance with 
respect to this element annually. The Integrity 
Anchor score an associate receives directly 
impacts their compensation. In general, any 
associate who fails to complete the required 
compliance training in a given year can achieve 
a score on the Integrity Anchor of no more than 
2 out of 5 (if they fail to complete one required 
training course) or 1 out of 5 (if they fail to 
complete two or more required training courses). 
We may withhold further recognition, awards 
and/or monetary bonuses from, or terminate, 
associates who do not meet our expectations with 
respect to integrity and compliance.Engaging Associates in Ethics & Compliance
Our Code of Conduct  guides our everyday actions and interactions with internal 
and external stakeholders. It is available in 19 languages.
Each year, all associates in administrative, business, technical, professional, 
management and executive career categories are required to take Code 
of Conduct training and certify their understanding of the Code and all its 
Central Oversight
A central, robust corporate ethics and compliance function reinforces our 
commitment to integrity. The responsibilities of our corporate ethics and 
compliance function include:
• Developing and facilitating ethics and 
compliance training
• Leveraging data analytics to identify and 
mitigate key ethics and compliance risks
• Managing our confidential reporting 
hotline, Speak Up!
• Leading investigations into alleged 
misconduct• Supporting operating company 
compliance teams and leaders
• Developing and overseeing 
implementation of programs and 
campaigns that increase associates’ 
ethical awareness
• Reporting quarterly to Danaher’s Audit 
Committee and at least annually to 
Danaher’s Board of Directors on matters 
of ethics and compliancerequirements. Code of Conduct training is also 
provided when associates join Danaher as new hires 
or through acquisitions, and live Code of Conduct 
training is provided in certain cases for our shop floor, 
manufacturing and field sales staff. Code of Conduct 
training is available in 18 languages; however, we 
also give our local teams the option to order training 
materials in other languages if necessary.
GRI:  102-16, 205-2FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Ethical Workplace
of in-scope associates 
completed Code of Conduct 
training and related 
certification in 201998%Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
68Corporate Internal Audit 
Support
Danaher also has a robust corporate 
internal audit function tasked with 
validating that proper accounting, 
and accounting-related controls, exist 
throughout Danaher. The corporate 
internal audit function regularly conducts 
extensive internal audits in an effort to 
ensure that Danaher’s externally reported 
financial statements are properly prepared 
according to U.S. Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles and to validate the 
effectiveness of the company’s internal 
controls over financial reporting.
Internal audit also coordinates with 
Danaher’s corporate ethics and compliance 
function to quantitatively rank the 
company’s business locations from a risk 
perspective, using a set of established 
risk criteria that takes into account the 
location’s finance leadership, geographic 
location and historical internal audit 
performance, among other factors. The 
corporate internal audit and compliance 
functions meet regularly with the 
company’s senior finance leadership and 
use this risk-based ranking to conduct 
a prioritized review of the company’s 
locations and implement risk mitigation 
actions as required. Reporting Concerns
We encourage associates to seek guidance 
on ethical issues and require them to raise 
concerns about possible legal or ethical 
violations. Concerns can be raised through 
numerous channels, including managers, 
Human Resources, Legal or Compliance 
department representatives, Danaher’s 
Board of Directors or the Speak Up! 
Hotline.
Danaher’s corporate ethics and compliance 
function tracks and oversees all reported 
concerns from investigation to resolution. 
In 2019, we received and investigated over 
850 reports. Where appropriate we took 
disciplinary action, including coaching, 
changes in job responsibilities or title, 
discussion in performance reviews, adverse 
impact on paid incentive compensation and/
or termination of employment.
Speak Up! Program
The Speak Up! call center and website are 
independent from Danaher and staffed 
by third-party ethics and compliance 
specialists. Speak Up! is a confidential way 
to ask questions, seek guidance and report 
possible violations of the Code of Conduct 
or any policies, laws, rules or regulations. 
Associates are encouraged and expected 
to ask questions when unsure about any 
ethics or compliance issue, and associates 
GRI:  102-16, 102-17, 102-33FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS  /  ETHICAL WORKPLACE
are required to report actual or potential 
violations of law, our Code of Conduct 
or other Danaher policy. In addition, we 
encourage our business partners and other 
third parties who interact with us to report 
compliance concerns through Speak Up! 
We publicize Speak Up! through an annual 
internal communications campaign, and 
information about Speak Up! is always 
available in our Code of Conduct , in our 
offices and facilities, and on our intranet 
and public website.
Our associates and business partners 
may use Speak Up! 24 hours a day, 7 
days a week. When a concern is reported 
by phone, the operator will listen, ask 
questions if necessary and then write a 
summary report. The summary is then 
provided to Danaher for assessment 
and further action. Phone numbers are 
available for over 120 countries. Associates 
can also file complaints or submit 
inquiries electronically through  www.
danaherintegrity.com , which is available in 17 
languages. Reporters can choose to submit 
their concerns to Speak Up! anonymously, 
where allowed by local law. Danaher will 
not tolerate retaliation against anyone 
who reports a problem in good faith, nor 
will we tolerate retaliation against anyone 
who participates in an investigation. Any 
retaliation may be reported to management 
or via any of the resources listed in the Code 
of Conduct .Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
69Structure & Responsibilities
Our Board of Directors  (either directly or through its 
committees):
• T ogether  with management, determines Danaher’s 
long-term strategy and oversees Danaher’s 
strategic acquisition and integration process,
• Oversees  Danaher’s culture, succession planning 
and development (including both a long-term 
succession plan and emergency succession plan for 
the CEO position), compensation, benefits, talent 
recruiting and retention, associate engagement and 
diversity and inclusion programs,
• Evaluates  the performance and sets the 
compensation of our CEO and other executive 
officers,
• Oversees  the quality and integrity of Danaher’s 
financial statements, Danaher’s internal controls 
over financial reporting, Danaher’s compliance with 
legal and regulatory requirements and Danaher’s 
integrity and compliance program, and
• Oversees  our risk assessment and risk management 
program and sustainability program.Board Selection, Composition & Refreshment
Nominees for Danaher’s Board may be suggested by our directors, members of 
management, shareholders or, in some cases, by a third-party search firm.
Our directors actively consider the topic of Board refreshment. Using our Board 
skills matrix as a guide as well as the results of our annual Board and committee 
self-assessment process, the Nominating & Governance Committee evaluates 
Board composition at least annually and identifies for Board consideration areas 
of expertise and backgrounds that would complement and enhance our current 
Board. In considering the Committee’s recommendations, our Board seeks to 
balance the knowledge and experience that comes from longer-term Board 
service with the fresh ideas and new domain expertise and backgrounds that can 
come from adding new directors. Our Board consists of 12 members, including four women. We have separated 
the positions of Chairman of the Board and CEO and because our Chairman is 
an executive officer, our Board has appointed a Lead Independent Director to 
chair meetings of the independent directors and act as a liaison, as necessary, 
between the independent directors and the management directors. The Board’s 
Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance 
Committee each consist entirely of independent directors. 
GRI:  102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-26FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Our Board of Directors & 
Management TeamDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
70Diversity is a critical dimension of our focus on Board composition 
and refreshment.  Our Board believes that it should collectively 
embody a diverse set of skills, knowledge, experiences and 
backgrounds appropriate to the Company’s needs, and as a result 
it takes into account racial/ethnic, gender, age and national origin 
diversity when considering director nominees.  In 2019, our Board 
conducted a director search that specifically targeted diverse 
individuals, included a pool of candidates reflecting each of the 
foregoing categories of diversity and resulted in the appointments 
of Drs. Jessica Mega and Pardis Sabeti to our Board.  Building on 
the enhanced gender, age and national origin diversity from these 
appointments, and following several months of additional planning 
and preparation by our Board, in August 2020 Danaher formally initiated a further director search specifically focused on adding a 
Person of Color from an underrepresented community.
While our diversity journey continues, our Board’s current 
composition demonstrates the progress we have achieved.  As of 
the date of this report, one-third of Danaher’s Board is female; two 
of our key Board leadership positions (Lead Independent Director 
and Chair of the Nominating & Governance Committee) are held by 
a female director; more than 20% of our independent directors are 
under the age of 50; and our average director tenure has declined 
20% year-over-year. The following graph further illustrates the 
diverse set of skills, knowledge, experiences and backgrounds 
represented on our Board. 
GRI:  102-18, 102-22, 102-24, 405-1FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS  /  OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS & MANAGEMENT TEAM
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
71 GRI:  102-18, 102-24FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS  /  OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS & MANAGEMENT TEAM
CEO Succession Planning
The foundation of our Board’s CEO succession planning process is a 
CEO development model consisting of two dimensions: leadership 
behaviors and development experiences. The Board uses the 
development model as a guide in preparing candidates, and in 
evaluating candidates for the CEO and other executive positions at 
the Board’s annual talent review and succession planning session. 
At the annual session, the Board evaluates and compares candidates 
using the development model, and reviews each candidate’s 
development actions and progress over time as well as business 
performance. The candidate evaluations are supplemented with 
periodic 360-degree performance appraisals, and the Board also 
regularly interacts with candidates at Board dinners and lunches, 
through Board meeting presentations and at our annual leadership 
conference. In culmination of this process, in 2020 our Board 
appointed Rainer M. Blair to succeed Thomas P . Joyce, Jr. upon his 
retirement as Danaher’s President and CEO.
Sunsets by Shweta Thalve, SCIEX associate
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
72 GRI:  102-21, 102-25, 102-33, 102-43FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS  /  OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS & MANAGEMENT TEAM
Managing Potential Conflicts of Interest
Danaher’s Nominating and Governance Committee reviews and, if 
appropriate, approves all related person transactions (defined as 
transactions required to be disclosed under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K 
promulgated under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), 
prior to consummation whenever practicable. Related person transactions 
of an ongoing nature are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Shareholder Engagement Program
As noted in this report, we actively seek and highly value feedback from 
our shareholders. During 2019, in addition to our traditional investor 
relations outreach efforts, we engaged with shareholders representing 
approximately 25% of our outstanding shares on our governance and 
executive compensation programs and sustainability initiatives. Feedback 
received during these meetings was shared with our Nominating and 
Governance Committee and Compensation Committee to inform their 
decision-making.
Communication with the Board
Shareholders and other parties interested in communicating directly with 
our Board, or with individual directors, our Lead Independent Director 
or the non-management or independent directors as a group, may do so 
by addressing communications to the Board of Directors, to the specified 
individual director or to the non-management or independent directors, 
as applicable, c/o Corporate Secretary, Danaher Corporation, 2200 
Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Suite 800W, Washington, D.C. 20037-1701.
IR MAGAZINE AWARDS
BEST CORPORATE GOVERNANCE:  
2014, 2015, 2018
BEST INVESTOR RELATIONS PROGRAM IN HEALTHCARE:  
2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020
BEST OVERALL INVESTOR RELATIONS PROGRAM:   
2018Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
73While risk-taking is essential to growing a business, we recognize that 
prudent risk management is necessary to deliver long-term, sustainable 
shareholder value. The goal of our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
program is to comprehensively inventory and mitigate key risks across 
all of Danaher’s platforms and operating companies. Danaher evaluates 
risks across five main pillars: operational, strategic, financial and 
accounting, compliance and information technology/security. Examples 
of the risk topics covered within these pillars include risks relating to 
regulations, sovereign/political dynamics, intellectual property, natural 
catastrophe, competition for talent, supply chain, climate change, business 
continuity and disaster recovery, compliance, bribery and anti-corruption, 
competition, international trade, finance and accounting, cybersecurity 
and IT infrastructure. 
The risk data collected is used to support effective business decision-
making and assess risk-reward tradeoffs. It also gives our leadership 
visibility into key risks and countermeasures and enables us to mitigate 
risks as dictated by our risk-reward assessment. The result is that Danaher 
and its operating companies are able to build better, more resilient 
businesses supported by a risk-based approach. 
The Board’s role in risk oversight is consistent with Danaher’s leadership 
structure: management has day-to-day responsibility for assessing and 
managing Danaher’s risk exposure, and the Board and its committees 
oversee those efforts, with emphasis on our most significant risks. 
Annually, our senior management reports on our risk management process 
to the Audit Committee and on the results of that process to our Board 
of Directors. The strength of our risk management program lies in the 
autonomy we give our operating companies to think broadly about the 
risks they face and determine how best to mitigate them. We know that 
those who are closest to gemba  are best positioned to identify and mitigate 
our most significant risks.
GRI:  102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 205-1
TCFD:  Governance, Risk ManagementFOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
Risk OversightSPOTLIGHT: MANAGING CYBERSECURITY RISKS
Our commitment to cybersecurity includes a programmatic 
approach to seeking to protect the confidentiality, integrity 
and availability of Danaher’s products, data and systems. 
We realize that cyberthreats emerge rapidly, so we 
endeavor to manage cyber-risks consistent with industry 
best practices and standards, and mitigate risks posed from 
cyberattacks through our global policies and procedures.
We take measures to regularly improve and update our 
cybersecurity program. We perform independent program 
assessments, penetration testing and scanning of our 
systems for vulnerabilities. We educate and share best 
practices globally with our associates to raise awareness 
of cyberthreats. We maintain a Global Security Incident 
Response Plan and conduct regular exercises to ensure its 
effectiveness and maintain our preparedness.
The cybersecurity program is led by Danaher’s Chief 
Information Security Officer, who along with the Chief 
Information Officer, provide regular updates to the Audit 
Committee regarding this program, including information 
about cyber-risk management governance and the status 
of projects to strengthen cybersecurity effectiveness. 
The Audit Committee regularly briefs the full Board on 
these matters, and the full Board also receives periodic 
briefings from management on our cybersecurity program. 
Danaher has also updated its disclosure controls and 
procedures to specifically address cybersecurity risk, 
including by amending our Insider Trading Policy to address 
cybersecurity and by ensuring clear linkage between 
Danaher’s Disclosure Committee and Chief Information 
Security Officer.Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
74GRI: 102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 201-2
TCFD: Governance, Risk Management, StrategyIn the Peruvian Amazon  by  
Dave Hayden, Pall associateFOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS   /  RISK OVERSIGHT
SPOTLIGHT: RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES RELATED TO CLIMATE CHANGE
Danaher’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program specifically prompts 
consideration of potential risks related to climate change, including acute or chronic 
physical facility risks attributable to climate change; regulatory risks, such as increased 
taxation of, or caps on the use of, carbon-based energy; competitive risks due to evolving 
customer preferences for more environmentally friendly solutions; and reputational risk 
tied to changing customer or community perceptions of an organization’s contribution to 
or detraction from the environment.
A key climate-related risk for Danaher is physical risk resulting from acute or chronic 
changes in climate patterns. Acute physical risks include increased severity of extreme 
weather events, such as cyclones, hurricanes or floods. Chronic physical risks refer to 
longer-term shifts in climate patterns (such as sustained higher temperatures) that 
may cause sea level rise or chronic heat waves. These physical risks may have financial 
implications for Danaher, such as direct damage to assets and indirect impacts from 
supply chain disruption. Elsewhere in this report, we discuss steps Danaher has taken 
to mitigate the potential impact of these types of physical risk to its facilities as well as 
Danaher’s efforts to reduce energy consumption and GHG emissions.
Key climate-related opportunities for Danaher include the prospect of developing 
new commercial solutions to address customers’ sustainability-related needs, and the 
potential to reduce Danaher’s operating costs. Given that “Customers T alk, We Listen” 
is a Danaher Core Value, customer feedback regarding sustainability requirements has 
been and will continue to be an innovation driver for Danaher. We include in this report 
examples where our operating companies have incorporated customer feedback and 
innovated products and solutions to address sustainability-specific needs. In addition, 
Danaher’s businesses are increasingly focused on improving efficiency across our 
production and distribution processes, production assets, buildings and transport/
mobility in relation to energy efficiency and waste management. We include examples 
where our operating companies have quantified cost savings from environmental impact 
reduction initiatives. Danaher’s new energy and GHG emission reduction targets, and 
targets to reduce the percentage of waste sent to landfills or incinerators, are expected 
to accelerate these efforts.
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
75Political Involvement Policy
We believe in the right of associates to 
participate in the political process. We 
encourage our associates to be active in 
charitable and political activities on their 
own time and at their own expense. In 
particular, our Code of Conduct  provides 
that:
• In all communications, associates must 
make clear that political views and 
actions are their own and not those of 
Danaher.
• Associates may never use Danaher 
resources to contribute to, support 
or oppose any political party or 
candidate unless approved by Danaher 
Corporation’s Board of Directors or a 
committee of the Board.
• Supervisors should not solicit direct 
or indirect reports to contribute to, 
support or oppose any political party or 
candidate.
• Associates may never make a charitable 
or political contribution with the intent 
to improperly influence someone.Trade/Industry Associations
Danaher belongs to and pays dues 
to certain U.S. trade and industry 
associations. Company policy is that 
each such association may use no more 
than $25,000 of Danaher’s dues in any 
calendar year for political purposes, and the 
company communicates this policy to the 
associations of which it is a member.
Political Expenditures
Since 2012, no funds or assets of Danaher 
Corporation or its subsidiaries (collectively, 
the “Company”) have been contributed to 
or for (1) any political party or candidate, 
whether federal, state or local, (2) any 
entity operating under 26 U.S.C. Sec. 527 of 
the Internal Revenue Code, (3) any entity 
organized under 26 U.S.C. Sec. 501(c)(4) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, (4) any ballot 
measure or (5) any public communication 
that expressly advocates the election or 
defeat of a political candidate (“political 
purposes”). 
Danaher has no intention of contributing 
any company funds or assets for political 
purposes; any contribution of company 
funds or assets for political purposes would 
require approval by Danaher’s President 
and CEO. Building a Network of 
Sustainable Suppliers
At Danaher, we are committed to a 
standard of excellence in every aspect of 
our business, which includes conducting all 
our operations with integrity, respecting 
the rights of all individuals and respecting 
the environment. As described in the 
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct , we 
expect the suppliers (as well as permitted 
subcontractors) who do business with 
Danaher and its subsidiaries to share these 
commitments. Danaher and its subsidiaries 
strongly encourage each supplier to meet 
the standards set forth in the Danaher 
Supplier Code of Conduct  in all activities that 
relate directly or indirectly to Danaher 
Corporation or any of its subsidiaries. 
We evaluate a supplier’s compliance with 
these standards in determining whether to 
grant or continue preferred status for such 
supplier. Suppliers that do not conform to 
these standards may be disqualified from 
preferred status and/or have their business 
relationship with Danaher or the applicable 
Danaher subsidiary terminated. 
GRI:  102-9, 415-1FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
PoliciesDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS
76GRI:  102-9, 102-12
SASB : HC-MS-430a.3FOUNDATIONAL ELEMENTS  /  POLICIES
Supply Chain Management
The Company’s manufacturing operations employ a wide variety 
of raw materials, including metallic-based components, electronic 
components, chemistries, OEM products, plastics and other 
petroleum-based products. Prices of oil and gas also affect the 
Company’s costs for freight and utilities. The Company purchases 
raw materials from a large number of independent sources around 
the world. No single supplier is material, although for some 
components that require particular specifications or regulatory 
or other qualifications there may be a single supplier or a limited 
number of suppliers that can readily provide such components. 
The Company utilizes a number of techniques to address potential 
disruption in and other risks relating to its supply chain, including 
in certain cases the use of safety stock, alternative materials and 
qualification of multiple supply sources.Conflict Minerals
Danaher Corporation and its subsidiaries are committed to sourcing 
components and materials from companies that share our values 
regarding respect for human rights, integrity and environmental 
responsibility. Danaher is committed to complying with the OECD 
Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals 
from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, as well as Section 1502 
of the Dodd-Frank Act, which aims to prevent the use of minerals 
that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or in adjoining countries 
(“conflict minerals”).
Suppliers to Danaher are required to commit to being or becoming 
“conflict-free” (which means that such supplier does not source 
conflict minerals) and sourcing only from conflict-free smelters. Each 
supplier to Danaher is required to provide completed Responsible 
Minerals Initiative Conflict Minerals Reporting T emplate  declarations 
evidencing such supplier’s commitment to becoming conflict-free 
and documenting countries of origin for the tin, tantalum, tungsten 
and gold that it purchases. For more information on Danaher’s conflict 
minerals program , please contact conflictminerals@danaher.com . 
Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
77About This Report
• Certain statements included or incorporated by 
reference in this report are “forward-looking 
statements” within the meaning of the United 
States federal securities laws. All statements 
other than historical factual information are 
forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking 
statements are based on assumptions and 
assessments made by our management in light 
of their experience and perceptions of historical 
trends, current conditions, expected future 
developments and other factors. Forward-
looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance and actual results may differ 
materially from the results, developments and 
business decisions contemplated by our forward-
looking statements. Accordingly, you should 
not place undue reliance on any such forward-
looking statements. Important factors that in 
some cases have affected us in the past and that 
in the future could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those envisaged in our forward-
looking statements are described in Danaher’s 
filings with the United States Securities and 
Exchange Commission.  The forward-looking 
statements included in this report speak only 
as of the date of this report, and except to 
the extent required by applicable law, we do 
not assume any obligation to update or revise 
any forward-looking statement, whether as a 
result of new information, future events and 
developments or otherwise.
• In this report, we describe certain products and 
devices that have applications submitted and 
pending for certain regulatory approvals and/or 
are available only in certain markets.• Any trademarks, product names or brand 
images appearing herein are the property of 
their respective owners.
• We refer to developing markets as high-growth 
markets in our financial reporting and define 
them as geographic markets experiencing 
extended periods of accelerated growth in 
gross domestic product and infrastructure, 
which include Eastern Europe, the Middle East, 
Africa, Latin America and Asia (except Japan, 
Australia and New Zealand).
• This report is dated as of October 15, 2020 
and unless otherwise noted, all data in this 
report is as of October 15, 2020. All financial 
information in this report is limited to 
continuing operations and is reported in U.S. 
dollars.
• Uncertainties are inherent in collecting data 
from a wide range of facilities and operations 
in a global company such as Danaher. The data 
included in this report (other than audited 
financial data) are good faith estimates and 
have not been externally assured. We expect 
our data collection systems to evolve and we 
will seek to continually improve our processes 
for collecting and disclosing accurate, 
meaningful and consistent data.
• Danaher applied the following methodology 
with respect to the metrics and goals included 
in this report relating to energy usage, GHG 
emissions, water usage and waste generation 
and diversion from landfills or incinerators 
(“environmental metrics”). We collected 2019 data from (1) Danaher locations owned 
or leased from January 1, 2019 through 
December 31, 2019 that in aggregate account 
for approximately 75% of our total space, and 
(2) vehicles and aircraft owned or leased by 
Danaher during 2019. With respect to any 
locations owned or leased from January 1, 
2019 through December 31, 2019 for which 
data was not collected, we endeavored to 
account for such locations by extrapolation.
The energy usage and GHG emissions 
metrics are based on good faith estimates 
of fuel consumed on-site, purchased energy 
and energy consumed through operation 
of Danaher-owned or -leased vehicles and 
aircraft. Danaher’s non-energy-consumption 
GHG emissions, such as refrigerant releases 
and process air emissions, are omitted. With 
respect to GHG emissions, we take into 
account offsets in calculating such emissions 
provided such offsets are recognized by an 
accrediting organization recognized by the 
CDP .
We define “hazardous/regulated” as wastes 
that are deemed regulated or hazardous by 
national legislation/regulations at the point 
of generation.
When normalizing the environmental 
metrics to revenue for a particular year, 
we do not include revenue attributable to 
acquisitions consummated subsequent to 
January 1 of such year.Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
78Reporting FrameworksABOUT THIS REPORT
As part of our efforts to enhance the transparency 
and accountability of our sustainability program, this 
report contains disclosures that address elements of 
the Global Reporting Initiative™  (GRI) Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines, the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board  (SASB) Medical Equipment and 
Supplies Sustainability Accounting Standard, the T ask 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures  (TCFD)and 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals  (UN 
SDGs). With respect to each such standard, while this 
report is not intended to meet all the requirements 
of the standard, we have referenced each relevant 
section of the standard as to which we believe full or 
partial responsive information has been provided.The text on the bottom of each 
page of this report references 
the reporting standards 
relevant to the content 
included on such page. T o read 
our Disclosure Index, visit our 
report online.
The content of this publication has not been approved by the United 
Nations and does not reflect the views of the United Nations or its 
officials or Member States.Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
79ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Name of the organization 102-1 Danaher Corporation
Activities, brands, products, and 
services102-2 Danaher at a Glance
Location of headquarters 102-3Washington, D.C., U.S.
Danaher at a Glance  - Our Story
Location of operations 102-42019 Annual Report , p. 29, 118
Danaher at a Glance - Map
Ownership and legal form 102-5 2019 Annual Report , p. 2
Markets served 102-62019 Annual Report , p. 1-6
Danaher at a Glance
Innovation  - High Impact in Developing Markets
Scale of the organization 102-72019 Annual Report , p. 7, 29, 64, 66
Danaher at a Glance
People - Our T eam
Supply chain 102-92019 Annual Report , p. 6 
Foundational Element s - Policies - Building a Network of Sustainable Suppliers; Supply Chain 
Management 
External initiatives 102-12Innovation  - Medical Device Product Quality
(FDA’s Quality Systems Regulation), (ISO 13485 Medical Devices Quality Management 
System Standard)
People  - Diversity + Inclusion 
(CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion), (Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index)
Foundational Elements  - Ethical Business Conduct 
(AdvaMed’s Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals)
Policies
Conflict Minerals (OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply 
Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas)GRI - General Disclosures - Organization ProfileDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
80ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Statement from senior decision-
maker102-14 From Our CEO
Key impacts, risks, and 
opportunities102-152020 CDP Response
Environment  - Environment Metrics & Goals
People - Diversity + Inclusion - Diversity Metrics
Foundational Elements - Risk Oversight
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Values, principles, standards, and 
norms of behavior 102-16Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct
Danaher At a Glance – How We Work
Foundational Elements  – Ethical Business Conduct; Ethical Workplace
Mechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethics102-17Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct
Foundational Elements  – Ethical Workplace
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Governance structure  102-182020 Proxy Statement , p. 10-12
Danaher at a Glance  - Sustainability Oversight
Foundational Elements - Our Board of Directors & Management T eam
Executive-level responsibility for 
economic, environmental, and 
social topics102-202020 Proxy Statement , p. 14
Danaher at a Glance  - Sustainability Oversight
People  - Diversity + Inclusion - D+I Strategy & OversightGRI - General Disclosures - Strategy
GRI - General Disclosures - Ethics & Integrity
GRI - General Disclosures - GovernanceDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
81ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Consulting stakeholders on 
economic, environmental, and 
social topics102-212020 Proxy Statement , p. 13, 65
Danaher at a Glance - Sustainability at Danaher
Foundational Elements - Our Board of Directors & Management T eam; Shareholder Engagement 
Program
Composition of the highest 
governance body and its 
committees 102-222020 Proxy Statement , p. 1-5
Foundational Elements  - Our Board of Directors & Management T eam
Chair of the highest governance 
body 102-232020 Proxy Statement , p. 7
Foundational Elements  - Our Board of Directors & Management T eam
Nominating and selecting the 
highest governance body 102-242020 Proxy Statement , p. 5
Foundational Elements  - Our Board of Directors & Management T eam
Conflicts of interest  102-252020 Proxy Statement , p. 17-18
Foundational Elements  - Our Board of Directors & Management T eam
Role of highest governance body 
in setting purpose, values, and 
strategy102-262020 Proxy Statement , p. 8-9
Foundational Elements  - Our Board of Directors & Management T eam
Evaluating the highest 
governance body’s performance 102-28 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 12-13
Identifying and managing 
economic, environmental, and 
social impacts102-292020 Proxy Statement , p. 9
Danaher at a Glance – Sustainability at Danaher
Foundational Elements  - Risk Oversight
Effectiveness of risk management 
processes 102-302020 Proxy Statement , p. 9
Foundational Elements  - Risk Oversight
Highest governance body’s role in 
sustainability reporting102-322020 Proxy Statement , p. 14
Danaher at a Glance  - Sustainability OversightGRI - General Disclosures - Governance (cont.)Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
82ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Communicating critical concerns 102-332020 Proxy Statement , p. 65
Danaher Code of Conduct
Foundational Elements  - Ethical Workplace; Our Board of Directors & Management T eam
Remuneration policies 102-352020 Proxy Statement , p. 24-57
People  – Personal Potential
Process for determining 
remuneration 102-36 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 24-57
Stakeholders’ involvement in 
remuneration 102-372020 Proxy Statement , p. 25
People  – Personal Potential
Annual total compensation ratio 102-38 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 52
Approach to stakeholder 
engagement102-432020 Proxy Statement , p. 13
Danaher at a Glance  - Sustainability at Danaher
Foundational Elements  - Shareholder Engagement Program
Entities included in the 
consolidated financial 
statements 102-45 2019 Annual Report , p. 1-6; Exhibit 21.1
List of material topics 102-47 Danaher at a Glance  - Sustainability at DanaherGRI - General Disclosures - Governance (cont.)Danaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
83ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Reporting period  102-50 2019
Date of most recent report  102-51 2019
Reporting cycle 102-52 Annual
Contact point for questions 
regarding the report 102-53 sustainability@danaher.com 
GRI content index 102-55 Available here
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Direct economic value generated 
and distributed201-12019 Annual Report , p. 59-119
Danaher at a Glance
Financial implications and other 
risks and opportunities due to 
climate change201-2 Foundational Elements  - Risk Oversight 
Defined benefit plan obligations 
and other retirement plans201-3 2019 Annual Report , p. 97-104GRI - General Disclosure - Reporting Practice
GRI - Economic PerformanceDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
84ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Infrastructure investments and 
services supported203-1Our Global Response to COVID-19  - Champions for Our Customers; Caring for Our Communities
Innovation  - Innovation Defines Our Future; High Impact in Developing Markets
People  - In Our Communities
Environment - Our Water Quality Business; Contributing to a Greener Future
Significant indirect economic 
impacts203-2Our Global Response to COVID-19 - Champions for Our Customers; Caring for Our Communities
Innovation  - Innovation Defines Our Future; High Impact in Developing Markets
People - Personal Potential; In Our Communities
Environment - Our Water Quality Business; Contributing to a Greener Future
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Operations assessed for risks 
related to corruption205-1 Foundational Elements  - Ethical Business Conduct; Risk Oversight
Communication and training 
about anti-corruption policies 
and procedures205-2 Foundational Elements - Ethical Business Conduct; Ethical Workplace
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practices206-1 2019 Annual Report , p. 109-111GRI - Indirect Economic Impacts
GRI - Anti-Corruption
GRI - Anti-competitive BehaviorDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
85ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Energy consumption within the 
organization302-1 Environment - Environmental Metrics & Goals
Energy intensity 302-3 Environment - Environmental Metrics & Goals
Reduction of energy consumption 302-4Environment  - Environmental Metrics & Goals; DBS & the Environment; Contributing to a Greener 
Future 
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Interactions with water as a 
shared resource303-1 Environment  - Environmental Metrics & Goals; Our Water Quality Business
Water consumption 303-5 Environment - Environmental Metrics & Goals
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-1 Environment - Environmental Metrics & Goals
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions305-2 Environment - Environmental Metrics & Goals
GHG emissions intensity 305-4 Environment - Environmental Metrics & Goals
Reduction of GHG emissions 305-5 Environment - Environmental Metrics & GoalsGRI - Energy
GRI - Water and Effluents
GRI - EmissionsDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
86ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Waste generated 306-3 Environment - Environmental Metrics & Goals
Waste diverted from disposal 306-4 Environment - Environmental Metrics & Goals
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
New employee hires and 
employee turnover401-1 People - Highlights
Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided 
to temporary or part-time 
employees401-2Our Response to the Global COVID-19 Pandemic  - Supporting Our Associates
People - Personal Potential
Parental leave 401-3 People  - Personal Potential
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Occupational health and safety 
management system403-1 People - Safety
Hazard identification, risk 
assessment, and incident 
investigation403-2 People - Safety
Work-related injuries 403-9 People - SafetyGRI - Effluents and Waste
GRI - Employment
GRI - Occupational Health & SafetyDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
87ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Programs for upgrading employee 
skills and transition assistance 
programs404-2 People - Highlights; Professional Potential
Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance 
and career development reviews404-3 People - Professional Potential
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Diversity of governance bodies 
and employees405-12020 Proxy Statement , p. 5
People - Diversity + Inclusion
Foundational Elements - Our Board of Directors & Management T eam
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Operations and suppliers in 
which the right to freedom 
of association and collective 
bargaining may be at risk407-1Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct
People  - Commitment to Human Rights & Anti-Discrimination
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Political contributions 415-1Political Expenditures Policy
Foundational Elements  - Policies - Political ExpendituresGRI - Training & Education
GRI - Diversity & Equal Opportunity
GRI - Freedom of Association 
GRI - Public PolicyDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
88ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Requirements for product and 
service information and labeling417-1Danaher Code of Conduct
Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct
Innovation - Medical Device Product Quality
Foundational Elements - Ethical Business Conduct
DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Non-compliance with laws and 
regulations in the social and 
economic area419-1 2019 Annual Report , p. 109-111GRI - Marketing and Labeling
GRI - Socioeconomic ComplianceDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
89ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
TOPIC DESCRIPTION CODE RESPONSE
Product SafetyNumber of recalls issued, total units 
recalledHC-MS-250a.1 Innovation  - Medical Device Product Quality
Product SafetyNumber of FDA enforcement actions 
taken in response to violations of 
current Good Manufacturing Practices 
(cGMP), by type2HC-MS-250a.4 Innovation  - Medical Device Product Quality
Ethical MarketingT otal amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with false marketing claimsHC-MS-270a.1Foundational Elements - Responsible Marketing to Customers & 
Patients
Ethical MarketingDescription of code of ethics governing 
promotion of off-label use of productsHC-MS-270a.2Foundational Elements - Responsible Marketing to Customers & 
Patients
Supply Chain 
ManagementDescription of the management of 
risks associated with the use of critical 
materialsHC-MS-430a.3 Foundational Elements  - Supply Chain Management; Conflict Minerals
Business EthicsDescription of code of ethics governing 
interactions with health care 
professionalsHC-MS-510a.2Foundational Elements - Responsible Marketing to Customers & 
PatientsSASB
TOPIC DESCRIPTION RESPONSE
GovernanceDisclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks 
and opportunities.Danaher At A Glance  - Sustainability at Danaher
Foundational Elements - Risk Oversight
StrategyDisclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning where such information is material.Foundational Elements - Risk Oversight
Risk ManagementDisclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-
related risks.Foundational Elements  - Risk Oversight
Metrics and T argetsDisclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-
related risks and opportunities where such information is material.Environment - Environmental Metrics & GoalsTCFDDanaher Sustainability Report 2020 ABOUT THIS REPORT
90ABOUT THIS REPORT  /  REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
UN Sustainable Development Goals  Relevant to Danaher
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS RESPONSE
Goal 3 - Good Health and Well-Being  
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all 
at all agesDanaher at a Glance  - Our Businesses  
                                             Life Sciences; Diagnostics
Our Response to the Global COVID-19 Pandemic  - Supporting Our Associates; 
Caring for Our Communities  
Innovation  – Innovation Defines Our Future; High Impact in Developing Markets
Environment  – Contributing to a Greener Future
Goal 5 - Gender Equality  
Achieve gender equality and empower all women 
and girlsPeople – Professional Potential - T alent Recruitment; 
Diversity + Inclusion - Diversity Metrics; D+I Training; Diversity + Inclusion 
Around the World; Commitment to Human Rights & Anti-Discrimination; 
In Our Communities
Goal 6 - Clean Water and Sanitation  
Ensure access to water and sanitation for allDanaher at a Glance - Our Businesses  
                                             Environmental & Applied Solutions
Environment  - Our Water Quality Business
Goal 8 - Decent Work and Economic Growth  
Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, 
employment and decent work for allDanaher at a Glance
People - Diversity + Inclusion
Goal 9 - Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure  
Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable 
industrialization and foster innovationInnovation - Highlights; Innovation Defines Our Future; High Impact in Developing 
Markets
Goal 12 - Responsible Consumption and Production  
Ensure sustainable consumption and production 
patternsEnvironment – Environmental Metrics & Goals; DBS & the Environment; Our Water 
Quality Business; Contributing to a Greener Future
Goal 13  - Climate Action  
T ake urgent action to combat climate change and its 
impactsEnvironment – Environmental Metrics & Goals
Goal 14 - Life Below Water  
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and 
marine resources2019 Sustainability Report , p. 40
Danaher at a Glance - Our Businesses – Environmental & Applied Solutions
Contact Us
GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE
2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 800W 
Washington, DC 20037
Phone: 202.828.0850  
Fax: 202.828.0860
www.danaher.comSUSTAINABILITY
This Sustainability Report, along with all past reports, can be 
viewed in the Downloads section of sustainability.danaher.com . 
Additional inquiries can be directed to Danaher’s corporate office 
or Danaher’s Sustainability contact at sustainability@danaher.com  