DEERE & COMPANY 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2021 
Sustainability
ReportDeere & Company
One John Deere Place, Moline, Illinois 61265
(309) 765-8000
www.JohnDeere.com Recycled Paper Printed with Soy InkOn the cover:
The new, two-row CH950 Sugar Cane Harvester operating in 
Brazil, delivering sustainable outcomes across the production 
system and almost doubling the intake of the crop. While 
Brazil’s regulations prohibit refueling after dark, the CH950 only 
requires one refuel every 24 hours due to enhanced design and 
increased fuel efﬁ  ciency. This allows for continued productivity 
at night. Learn more on page 22. We run so 
life can leap 
forward .Chairman and
CEO Letter Our Strategy
in Action
ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
GOVERNANCEPage 6 Pages 12–29
Pages 30–37 Pages 38–53
Pages 54–62
ENVIRONMENTAL
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCEOUR STRATEGY IN ACTION8 Sustainability Priorities Informed 
by Materiality Assessment 
14 Data and Technology Demystify Cotton Production 31 Climate Stewardship 
39 DEI Framework 
44 Prioritizing Our People
47 Dealership Talent
55 Corporate Governance 35 Product Circularity 
60 Compliance 
64 Data Tables32 Energy and Emissions
40 Leading With a DEI Mindset
56 Sustainability Governance 
66 Awards37 Responsible Water Use
51 Workplace Health and Safety37 Waste Elimination
52 Product Quality
53 Product Safety 18 Connected Machines Support Sustainable 
Forest Management17 Turning Data Into Value
22 CH950 Boosts Efﬁ  ciency, Sustainability of 
Sugar Cane Harvest
26 See & Spray™ Select: Saves (and Targets) Green 
28 An Opportunity the Size of the Fleet: Performance 
Upgrades Promote Sustainability 6 Chairman and CEO Letter 5 2021 Highlights 
62 Political Engagement 58 Cybersecurity
and Data Privacy 10 Our Next Leap
61 Human Rights59 Supply Chain Management13 Progress Toward Our Goals
48 The John Deere Foundation’s 
Bold Commitment
42021 HIGHLIGHTS
Engaged 
Acres
Community
InvestmentSustainable
Innovations Launched
See & Spray™ Select System
Integrated ExactRate™ Liquid Fertilizer Solution
CH950 Sugar Cane Harvester
C770 Cotton HarvesterTotal Connected
Machines 
(Ag & Construction)315M+
$42.5M27 .8M+440,000+$44.024B 
20% 4% $5.128B Net Sales & Revenues 
Scope 1 & 2
Greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction achieved since 2017Scope 1 & 2
Greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction achieved in 2021Shareholder Value Added 
Pounds of Material Recycled
Through Remanufacturing  Increase of Women in Global 
Management Positions from 2020
More females overall in the workforceIncrease of Non-White 
Employees in U.S. 
Management from 2020 
5JOHN C. MAY
CHAIRMAN AND CEO
CHAIRMAN AND CEO LETTEROur people have led our business strategy, helped us 
overcome numerous challenges caused by COVID-19 , 
and stepped forward in our communities. They have 
stood tall, moved forward, and asked, “What’s next?”
Their efforts are evident in all the successes we celebrate.
This path to success is paved by the company’s Smart 
Industrial strategy and the sustainable outcomes our 
integrated technology stack provides. Our customers  
— and key stakeholders — beneﬁ  t by becoming more 
productive, proﬁ  table, and mindful of their impact on 
the world around them. 
Initiatives like our new excavator strategy and 
acquisitions like Bear Flag Robotics carry this mission 
forward and accelerate our transformation from 
automation to autonomy. This evolution includes 
“sense-and-act” technologies that enable more precise, 
more productive, and more sustainable outcomes.
We are also utilizing data like never before, linking 
behaviors to solutions such as the John Deere Operations 
Center which includes more than 315 million engaged 
acres worldwide. That connection is at the heart of 
our equipment — making it run more efﬁ  ciently while 
providing real-time insights and putting us closer to our 
customers and their changing businesses. 
To those working in cotton and sugar cane ﬁ  elds around 
the world, we have listened, applying technology to 
make the complex more manageable. And we have 
gone into forests with loggers and made maintaining 
and harvesting that unique crop safer, smarter, and 
more sustainable. 
It is our people who will use their unique expertise, insight, 
and commitment to pursue our 2022 Sustainability Goals. 
And we continue to recruit, develop, retain, and promote 
a diverse workforce, shaped by an understanding that 
our solutions are better when many voices are heard. We 
value that view, believing ideas must come from a variety 
of lived experiences, strengthening us as a whole. Finally, in reaching a new labor agreement we continued 
to invest in our people, bringing security, certainty, and 
continuity to our production and maintenance workforce 
— all while ensuring our business remains competitive.
Our Smart Industrial business model has made us 
more agile and direct, strengthening how we lead by 
example — whether it’s through a weeklong hackathon; 
an inspiring Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion framework; 
or navigating a pandemic and strained supply chain. It is 
here where our people shine.
John Deere is often gauged by the products we provide 
— and make no mistake, our products are second to 
none. However, we realize the world’s many challenges 
cannot be solved by equipment alone. Challenges like a 
deteriorating infrastructure, climate change, and social 
inequality push us to think beyond today. Answers will 
come from our grit, determination, and collaboration.
In our neighborhoods and villages — where food 
security, housing, and education must be elevated — 
we have made a commitment to future generations 
by investing at least $200 million over the next 10 
years, pledging bold support in places both familiar 
and far away.
And while what is highlighted in this Sustainability Report 
shows what a uniﬁ  ed company can accomplish, it does 
not measure all that we can become. Together, we have 
identiﬁ  ed a new direction for what comes next as outlined 
in our Leap Ambitions, which aligns our new business 
goals with new sustainability goals. By executing our 
strategy in pursuit of better outcomes — using fewer 
resources — we will drive change on a global scale.
It is in that horizon where I see life leaping forward and 
society thriving. It is why we run.
 Chairman and CEO         year ago we were reminded that people 
    are at the center of our purpose: We run 
so life can leap forward. A
7In 2021, John Deere completed our inaugural sustainability 
materiality assessment to identify, assess, and prioritize 
the sustainability topics most signiﬁ  cant to our business 
and our stakeholders. In working with a third-party ﬁ  rm on 
our most signiﬁ  cant environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) topics based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards, John Deere sought to understand our greatest 
ESG impacts, opportunities, and risks, and the inﬂ  uence of 
these on our stakeholders’ decision making.  
 
Members of our executive team were engaged to identify a 
cross section of stakeholders. Participants included John Deere 
leaders, customers, investors, dealers, suppliers, government 
agencies, industry associations, non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs), academia, and the general public. 
We engaged each of these groups to discuss areas of 
interest and perceived impact, risks, and opportunities 
associated with John Deere’s material ESG topics.  
 
The results of the materiality assessment informed our 
approach to reporting, and also served as a framework for 
evaluating and planning our future sustainability goals and 
objectives. The key topics for our business from an ESG 
perspective are reﬂ  ected on the right.
We believe continuous engagement with our stakeholders 
is integral to achieving our higher purpose and is part of 
the foundation on which we build trust and hold ourselves 
accountable to our stakeholders. Therefore, we continue 
to engage regularly with our diverse stakeholder groups, 
including customers, dealers, employees, investors, and 
community leaders. This continuous engagement is used 
alongside our materiality assessment as another input for 
assessing and prioritizing our sustainability priorities. 
For example, to ensure the continued delivery of sustainable, 
long-term value to our shareholders, we engage in proactive 
shareholder outreach three times per year, in addition to our 
regular ongoing dialogue with shareholders and potential 
shareholders throughout the year. These proactive outreach 
efforts focus on governance, executive compensation, 
sustainability, and other ESG topics. During 2021, we 
invited shareholders representing more than 45 percent of 
outstanding share ownership to engage in conversations 
with us on these topics. Of those we contacted, shareholders 
representing over 40 percent of outstanding share ownership 
participated in meetings and offered valuable insights.   ENVIRONMENTAL
Climate Stewardship
Emissions & Energy
Harmful & Hazardous Chemicals & Substances
Land, Habitat, & Forest Conservation
Recyclability & Product Lifecycle Impacts
Soil Health
Sustainable Food & Agriculture
Waste
Water Quality & Availability
SOCIAL
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
Employee Health, Safety & Wellness
GOVERNANCE
New Technologies & Innovations
Urbanization & Sustainable Infrastructure
SOCIAL
Dealership Talent
Product Quality, Durability & Reliability
Product Safety & Health
Talent Attraction, Engagement & Retention
Traceability, Nutrition, & Sustainable Diets
User/Customer Experience & Satisfaction
GOVERNANCE
Data Privacy & Product Security
Geopolitical Events
Human Rights & Labor Relations
Intellectual Property (IP)
Market Access & Trade Barriers
Political Participation & Advocacy
Responsible Supply Base & SourcingHIGHEST-PRIORITY TOPICS
TOPICS FOR ACTIVE MANAGEMENT 
AND MONITORINGSUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES INFORMED
BY MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
8• Focused on governance, board 
composition and expertise, 
   and executive compensation
• Discussions related to overall program 
structure and key metrics in executive 
compensation
• Questions on priorities and plans 
related to ESG, particularly climateProxy Season
EngagementSustainability 
Report 
Engagement2021 Shareholder Engagement Summary
Mid- Y ear 
Engagement
• Focused on feedback related to our 
annual sustainability report
• Shareholders view Deere very positively 
for a direct link between strategy and 
sustainable outcomes
• Feedback received: shareholders viewed 
climate change a key priority going 
forward — including Scope 3, TCFD, 
and alternative propulsion strategy
• Open questions related to our 
DEI priorities • Focused on updating shareholders 
on potential executive compensation 
changes and progress on ESG priorities
• Climate remains a key focus area for 
investors
• Board composition, including tenure, 
expertise, and over-boarding, an area 
of interest
• ESG integration into executive 
compensation a key topic of inquiryIn response to the feedback received from shareholders 
during 2021, some of the actions we have taken include:
• Quantiﬁ  ed our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and 
included in this report
• Analyzed our risks and opportunities related to climate 
change to include a Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures Report with this report
• Evaluated and set Science Based Target commitments for 
our Scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions
• Further expanded customer outcome-focused disclosures 
in this report and launched new Leap Ambitions 
to further demonstrate alignment of strategy and 
sustainable outcomes
• Included this key topic summary to serve as a guide for our 
sustainability priorities and strategy
• Published EEO-1 Disclosure (with respect to our U.S. 
employees) Multiple sustainability frameworks also impact our 
sustainability priorities and reporting. Our approach 
to sustainability reporting is aligned with our internal 
Enterprise Risk Management process. We also 
continue to align our reporting with the material issues 
identiﬁ  ed by the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB), including those speciﬁ  c to the Industrial 
Goods and Machinery industry. Our 2021 report 
continues to incorporate Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) reporting and support of the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Given the 
increasing importance and potential impact of climate 
change on our business and our world, John Deere 
also is reporting in alignment with the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report for 
the ﬁ  rst time this year and will continue to report to 
CDP on an annual basis. 
9In 2020, we announced a new vision and operating 
model to accelerate success through the integration 
of smart technology innovation with Deere’s legacy 
of manufacturing excellence.
The Deere Smart Industrial strategy focuses on
delivering intelligent, connected machines and
applications that will revolutionize production systems 
in agriculture and construction, unlocking customer 
economic value across the lifecycle in ways that are 
more sustainable for all.
The core elements of our strategy’s operating model — 
Production Systems, Technology Stack, and Lifecycle 
Solutions — paired with a new approach to capital 
allocation and the best team in the industry, are enabling
us to innovate with agility and speed.
Our customers face increasing challenges that make their 
businesses more competitive and dynamic. We will build on our track record by creating and delivering customer 
value through technological innovation, engineering 
and manufacturing excellence, and a world-class dealer 
channel, all of which uniquely position Deere to anticipate, 
address, and outpace these challenges better than anyone.
We’re pleased to announce our Leap Ambitions — the 
measures of our strategy. Our ambitions align across our 
customers’ production systems to optimize their complete 
operations — ensuring that every hour, every drop, every 
seed, every pound, and every pass counts — delivering 
better outcomes with fewer resources.
Our Leap Ambitions are focused goals designed to
boost economic value and sustainability for our
customers. We’ve committed to achieving these goals 
within four-year (2026) and eight-year (2030) periods. 
These Leap Ambitions mean great things for our 
customers, employees, investors, dealers, suppliers, 
and others who have a stake in John Deere.JOHN DEERE is uniquely positioned to deliver both 
ECONOMIC and  SUSTAINABLE VALUE for our customers 
through ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY and  SOLUTIONS.
OUR NEXT LEAP
10>$150 BILLION
PRODUCTION & PRECISION AG SMALL AG & TURF CONSTRUCTION & FORESTRY
By 2026
– Ensure 100% of new Small Ag 
 equipment is connectivity enabled 
– Offer an electric option in each 
 Turf and Compact Utility Tractor 
 product family
– Deliver a fully autonomous, 
 battery-powered electric  ag tractor
 to the marketBy 2026
– Reach 500 million engaged acres*
 with 50% highly engaged** 
By 2030  
– Ensure 75% of engaged acres are   
 sustainably engaged acres***By 2026
– Deliver 20+ electric and hybrid-electric 
  product models 
– Earthmoving: Increase SmartGrade™ 
     grade control adoption to 50% 
– Forestry: Boost Intelligent Boom 
 Control adoption to 100% 
– Roadbuilding: Increase Precision   
 Roadbuilding Solutions adoption to 85%
Product Circularity by 2030
– Achieve 95% recyclable
 product content 
– Ensure 65% of product content is   
 sustainable material
– Grow 50% in remanufacturing revenue 
Safety by 2026
– Improve Total Recordable Incident
 Rate 20%Reduce Environmental Footprint
by 2030
–  50% of operational CO2 e emissions
     (Scope 1 & 2)
–   30% of upstream and downstream 
     CO2 e emissions (Scope 3)
–   15% of waste intensity
–   10% freshwater consumption   
  intensity at water-stressed
  manufacturing locationsEnhance Ag Customer 
Outcomes by 2030
– Improve nitrogen use 
    efﬁ  ciency 20%†
– Increase crop protection 
    efﬁ  ciency 20%†
– Reduce 15% of customer
  CO2 e emissions†   FINANCIAL AND SUSTAINABLE OUTCOMESINCREMENTAL ADDRESSABLE MARKET OPPORTUNITY
EXECUTING OUR STRATEGY
Equipment Operations OROS at 20% by 2030
* Engaged acres is one of the foundational measures of customers’
use of the John Deere Operations Center (our online farm
management system). It reﬂ  ects the number of unique acres with
at least one operation pass documented in the Operations Center 
in the past 12 months.** Highly Engaged Acres include documentation of multiple production steps  
and the use of digital tools to complete multiple, value creating activities 
over a 12 month period.*** Sustainably engaged acres include incorporation of two or more 
sustainable John Deere technology solutions or sustainable practices 
over a 12-month period.
†Per unit of outputGrow enterprise recurring revenue to 10%  by 2030Connect 1.5 million  machines by 2026
Demonstrate viable low/no carbon alternative power solutions by 2026DELIVER ONGOING 
VALUE TO CUSTOMERS 
IN ALL THREE 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
11OUR STRATEGY
IN ACTIONAs we head into the ﬁ  nal year of our 2022 Sustainability Goals, 
we are committed to continuing to strive to achieve these 
goals. Reﬂ  ected here is our progress through ﬁ  scal year 2021, 
and we will provide the ﬁ  nal outcomes for these goals in our 
next round of sustainability reporting. 
As we look to the future, we have considered the signiﬁ  cant 
progress that our teams have made on this goal suite, and 
we have set the bar even higher for ourselves with the launch 
of our new Leap Ambitions. Our Leap Ambitions include goals that continue to focus on reducing the environmental 
impact of our own operations and our products, as well as 
providing a safe and healthy workplace for our world-class 
employees. We have also broadened the scope of these 
goals to include a focus on the environmental impact of our 
complete value chain by integrating a Scope 3 greenhouse 
gas reduction goal, as well as a new focus on delivering more 
sustainable outcomes for our customers. Taken together, 
our Leap Ambitions demonstrate the impressive impact 
of our strategy in action.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY²
ENTERPRISE TOTAL RECORDABLE 
INCIDENT RATEAchieve safety excellence through increased focus on leading 
indicators, risk reduction, health- and safety-management 
systems, and prevention.WASTE RECYCLEDINCREASE RECYCLING ²
201890%
85%85%
78% 78%80% 80%83%
75%
70%80%
2019 2020 2021 2022 Goal 2017
(BASE YEAR)Recycle 85% of total waste.
NEW PRODUCT PROGRAMS WITH LOWER 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
REMANUFACTURED AND REBUILD SALES GROWTH
40%30%
10.0%16.3%
8.9%20%
0%
2019 2020 2021 2022 GoalPRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY²
Reduce environmental impact, including CO2 e emissions, on 90% 
of new products. Increase the use of sustainable materials by 
growing remanufactured and rebuild sales by 30% and by increasing 
recyclable, renewable, and recycled content.
2019100%90%
53%67%71%
29%
0%50%
2020 2021 2022 Goal 2018
(BASE YEAR)1.324.0
3.2
2.4
1.6
0.8
0.0# of Recordable Incidents 
Per 100 Employees1.65 1.68
BLS* *BLS = Bureau of Labor Statistics - NAICS 333 - Machinery Manufacturing
Note: BLS data based on a calendar year2019 2020 2021 2022SUSTAINABLE ENERGY USE ¹
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (mtCO2e)
RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY2018
20181M
800K
60%50%
29.2 %40.5%
22.3% 23.8% 23.5%1,009,000 1,025,00097 7, 20 0840,500811,000
15%
REDUCTION
850,000400K
20%
0%200K
0600K
40%2019
20192020
20202021
2021from Base Y ear
2022
2022Goal
Goal 2017
(BASE YEAR)20%Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15% through 50% renewable-energy 
supply and excellence in energy efﬁ  ciency.
2017
(BASE YEAR)
WATER BMP IMPLEMENTEDUSE WATER RESPONSIBL Y ²
100%
21% 29%80%
50%
0%100%
2019 2020 2021 2022 GoalImplement water best management practices (BMP) in 
100% of water-scarce manufacturing locations.
1 Data associated with the operation of PLA Holding Netherlands B. V ., Mazzotti S.r.l., 
and King Agro Europa, S.L., and their related subsidiaries, and the Wirtgen Group 
entities are included for all years in the reported metrics. Data associated with the 
operation of Unimil is not included in the reported greenhouse-gas and renewable-
electricity metrics.
2 Data associated with the operation of PLA Holding Netherlands B. V ., Mazzotti S.r.l., 
King Agro Europa, S.L., and Unimil, and their related subsidiaries, and the Wirtgen 
Group entities, are not included in the reported waste recycling, water BMP , product 
sustainability, remanufacturing revenue, and total recordable incident rate metrics.PROGRESS TOWARD OUR GOALS
13It’s been said that what you can measure you can change. 
Perhaps there’s no better place to test that theory than 
in a cotton ﬁ  eld.
Managing the cotton-growing cycle is so complex that 
the industry uses an analogy: While growing certain crops 
is more like doing algebra, growing cotton is like doing 
calculus. In addition, cotton producers serve an extremely 
diverse customer base which often desires visibility into 
the production system in service of sustainability goals.
“The world needs cotton, but perhaps the world doesn’t 
necessarily appreciate what it takes to grow and harvest 
it,” said Steve Y oung, cotton production system manager 
at John Deere.
While cotton producers are working through those 
equations, John Deere is providing technology, best-in-
class equipment, and data tools that enable the sustainable 
outcomes growers and their customers desire.THE CALCULUS OF GROWING COTTON
When a cotton plant emerges, it starts growing bolls 
close to the stalk. Every day or two, another new boll 
emerges and it becomes a bigger and bigger plant. 
However, if the plant grows too tall and wide, it won’t 
produce a meaningful cotton crop. Therefore, a grower 
must constantly manage its growth pattern.
To effectively “manage” a cotton ﬁ  eld, growers must 
apply nutrients and chemicals throughout the growing 
season including herbicides, plant-growth regulators, 
insecticides, and fertilizers. In total, a typical growing 
season involves 11 nutrient and chemical passes per ﬁ  eld, 
which is both expensive and environmentally impactful.DATA AND TECHNOLOGY 
DEMYSTIFY COTTON PRODUCTIONThis is where John Deere See & Spray™ system comes in. John 
Deere’s upcoming in-season version of See & Spray can 
signiﬁ  cantly reduce the amount of contact herbicides applied 
in cotton production using targeted spraying.1 Deere sees this 
as just the beginning of the journey to develop “sense-and-act” 
technology in the ﬁ  eld. While four passes in a cotton-growing 
season involve herbicides, there is tremendous opportunity 
for future technology to deliver sustainable and economic 
outcomes that address the remaining seven passes.
Deere’s current technology stack is already saving cotton 
producers an estimated nearly $50 an acre through 
innovations like ExactApply™ sprayer system, section control, 
and AutoTrac™ guidance.2 With the addition of See & Spray
Ultimate system, and its targeted broadcast-spray 
technology, this ﬁ  gure could climb even higher. Contact 
herbicides — those that are applied directly to the plants — 
represent a signiﬁ  cant expense item on a grower’s ﬁ  nancials, 
costing nearly $50 per acre.3 John Deere’s in-season See & 
Spray technology is expected to provide savings of this line 
item of more than two-thirds, resulting in additional per-acre 
savings of over $30.1,3 This is good for our growers’ businesses, 
and good for the environment. 
1 Results based on internal John Deere strip trials in corn, soybeans, and cotton in Iowa, 
Mississippi, Texas, and Illinois, in typical growing conditions, with varying weed size, 
crop canopy, and ﬁ  eld conditions, using targeted spray of non-residual herbicide only, 
and using current software/algorithm at time of trials. Results will vary based on crop 
and weed pressure.
2 Based on a model farm growing 3,000 acres of cotton. Values are based on three-year
 historical average input prices as published by Mississippi State University. Results
 based on beneﬁ  ts assessed pursuant to third-party studies as well as results of actual  
 customer experience. Results will vary.
3 Values are based on three-year historical average input prices as published by 
    Mississippi State University.
15At the same time, John Deere continues to deliver better and 
more efﬁ  cient machine forms to meet customer needs and 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2021, John Deere launched 
the C770 Cotton Harvesters, which are the culmination of 
more than a decade-long journey that started in 2009 to 
revolutionize cotton harvesting. These machines represent the 
most signiﬁ  cant advancement in cotton harvesting since going 
from hand picking to mechanization.
The beneﬁ  ts of the C770 include an impressive 20-percent 
fuel savings through efﬁ  cient engine technology and machine 
design — reducing fuel costs for the customer and lowering 
greenhouse gas emissions for the environment — and a 
completely redesigned baler system. During the cotton-
harvesting process, each bale is wrapped in plastic to enable 
transport. The C770 packs more cotton into each bale, and 
reduces the amount of wrap required per pound by eight 
percent on cotton pickers and 12 percent on cotton strippers.4
More cotton per bale also means more cotton per load hauled 
to production sites — called gins — where cotton ﬁ  bers are 
separated from their seeds. That translates into fewer trips from 
ﬁ  eld to gin, additional fuel and time savings, and an extension 
of safety beyond the farm by reducing trafﬁ  c on rural roadways.  
application passes optimized 
with See & Spray targeted sprayapplication passes per growing cycle represent 11 opportunities 
for John Deere technology to optimize inputs
passes of opportunity for 
future Sense & Act innovationleaving 4 11
7Sustainable outcomes delivered annually by John Deere technology on a 3,000-
acre model U.S. cotton farm6JOHN DEERE’S SUSTAINABLE IMPACT BY THE NUMBERS
• 4,500,000 pounds of cotton harvested
• 1,942 pounds of plastic wrap savings
• 2,995 gallons of fuel savingsC770 HARVESTER IMPACT5Will address contact herbicides, which represent an annual 
expense for growers of nearly $50 per acre, and is expected to 
reduce the amount applied by more than two-thirds, which means 
an additional savings of over $30 per acre and more than 2,300 gallons 
of contact herbicides per yearSEE & SPRAY™ ULTIMATE SYSTEMSaved with Deere technology (ExactApply™ sprayer system, section control, 
and AutoTrac™ assisted steering system), by reducing inputs and improving 
yield by delivering the annual total farm savings of the following inputs:
• 30 bags of seed 
• 260 gallons of defoliant
• 278 gallons of growth regulator
• 692 gallons of insecticide
• 1,329 gallons of fuel 
• 1,402 gallons of contact and residual herbicides
• 6,489 gallons of nitrogen fertilizer
• 45,000 pounds of potassium fertilizer$50 / ACRE
489 metric tons CO2e emissions reduced per year  In total 
Equivalent of 1.2M passenger vehicle miles driven 
OR 6.5  tanker trucks of gasoline74 Compared to John Deere 7760.
5 Values are based on three-year historical average input prices as published by Mississippi 
 State University. Results based on beneﬁ  ts assessed pursuant to third-party studies as well 
   as results of actual customer experience. Results will vary.
6 Annual savings of a model cotton operation of 3,000 acres. Results will vary.
7 Equivalencies based on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies 
   Calculator, https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator.In addition to completing the hard work in the ﬁ  eld, John Deere 
“connected machines” —  those connected to the John Deere 
Operations Center through JDLink™ telematics system — are 
also constantly capturing and transmitting data. Capturing 
this in-ﬁ  eld information informs innovation and helps make 
production systems more efﬁ  cient and sustainable. These 
digitally “engaged acres” can also unlock additional insights 
and value for growers.
Deere customer Trey Davis, owner of Davis Family Farms 
in Doerun, Georgia, operates approximately 4500 acres 
of cotton, 2500 acres of peanuts, and 600 acres of corn 
annually. The family-run farm uses John Deere Operations 
Center data to help with its sustainability journey by 
identifying underperforming acres that can be repurposed. 
For example, he recently converted 20 acres of land into a 
pollinator plot, which is a more economic and sustainable 
use of that land.
Deere is also working to enable our customers to leverage 
their data to access additional value associated with their 
sustainable practices and sustainable crops. One example 
involves the U.S. Cotton Trust Protocol (U.S. CTP).
Cotton buyers are increasingly demanding more sustainably 
grown cotton and more visibility into the practices used to 
grow that cotton. Established in 2020, U.S. CTP wants to 
build a coalition of sustainable cotton growers to meet these 
demands. To qualify for U.S. CTP , growers must complete a sustainability analysis, which evaluates the sustainability 
of the customer’s production practices using the Field to 
Market® Fieldprint® calculator. Backed by the National Cotton 
Council and Cotton Incorporated, U.S. CTP then shares that 
aggregate information with cotton buyers — like clothing 
retailers — who can use this information to meet their own 
commitments related to sustainable products.
One of the key barriers to participation for growers is the 
hours it takes to enter manual data into relevant forms. This 
is where the John Deere Operations Center comes in. The 
John Deere innovation team is working to enable Operations 
Center customers to quickly import information and complete 
60 percent of the form with the click of a button. And the 
remainder can be completed through a more streamlined 
process, eliminating most of the manual-entry requirements.  
By building trust through providing visibility into the 
sustainable practices utilized by cotton growers, U.S. CTP 
can serve the growing demand by retailers for sustainably 
grown cotton. By eliminating the documentation hurdle 
required for participation, Deere can enable its customers to 
easily get real, tangible value from their sustainable growing 
practices. In this case, that value is access to markets for 
their cotton they may not have had before.“Working with Deere helps customers more easily 
leverage what they’re already doing to unlock the 
potential for creating value down the road.” 
— Jesse Daystar, Cotton Incorporated
TURNING DATA INTO VALUE
To see more of the story, visit  
deere.com/en/our-company/sustainability/  
sustainability-report/cotton-production/
17To fully understand the importance of 
sustainable forest management, it’s best 
to ﬁ  rst understand the environmental and 
economic value of its crop.
Y es, trees are a crop.
For some, that is a difﬁ  cult statement to 
understand, because trees are not like 
corn or soybeans. Once harvested, it takes 
years — not months — before the next 
harvest is ready.
GOOD FOR THE PLANET
There is no better asset in the ﬁ  ght against 
climate change than trees. Forests purify 
the air we breathe, ﬁ  lter the water we drink, 
and reduce the planet’s carbon footprint 
by storing carbon while releasing oxygen. 
In fact, almost as much carbon is stored 
in forests (650 billion tons) as is in the 
atmosphere (760 billion tons).1 And, when 
trees are harvested and turned into building 
materials, that carbon is sequestered, 
making for a long-term storage solution, 
as one cubic meter of lumber can hold one 
ton of CO2 for an average of 20 years.2 But harvesting doesn’t mean leaving an 
empty shell in nature. On the contrary, 
as application of sustainable forest-
management principles has increased, 
so has the available crop. According to the 
Global Forest Resources Assessment 2020, 
there are six-percent more living trees in 
forests in North America today than there 
were in 1990.3 
This is largely because, as a renewable 
resource, sustainably managed forests 
are maintained and regenerated as part of 
multiyear harvest cycles that can continue 
into inﬁ  nity and provide an endless supply 
of wood, fuel, and paper products. Proper 
forest thinning, soil maintenance, and 
clearing of dead trees also aid in new 
growth and can help lessen the impact of 
ﬁ  res. Without thinning and cleanup, much 
of what fuels a forest ﬁ  re is now at ground 
level, easily ignited, and rapidly spread. 
Economically, forests account for $500 
billion in products annually 4, with a global 
economic value estimated at $33 trillion a 
year.5 Beyond simple lumber or paper, trees 
contribute to products used in nearly every 
facet of our daily lives, including bedsheets, disposable diapers, oil ﬁ  lters, baseballs, 
cricket balls, life jackets, linoleum ﬂ  ooring, 
charcoal, and home insulation. And the 
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) 
claims 25 percent of the world’s population 
 — more than 1.9 billion people — rely on 
forest resources for their livelihood (e.g., 
construction, recreational uses of land, 
and timber harvesting).6CONNECTED MACHINES SUPPORT 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT
of carbon in the atmosphere of carbon stored in forests
One cubic meter of lumber can 
hold one ton  of CO2 for
an average of 20 years.2 There are 6 percent  
more living trees in 
North American forests 
today than in 1990.3760B tons1VS. 650B tons1 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), 
https://www.fao.org/forestry/communication-toolkit/76361/en/. 
2 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), 
https://www.fao.org/3/ac836e/AC836E03.htm. 
3 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 
Global Forest Resources Assessment 2020, page 46, Table 36, 
https://www.fao.org/3/ca9825en/ca9825en.pdf. 
4 The Business Research Company, Forestry and Logging Global 
Market Opportunities and Strategies Report, https://www.
thebusinessresearchcompany.com/report/forestry-and-logging-
products-market. 
5 Rainforest Alliance, What is Sustainable Forestry, https://www.
rainforest-alliance.org/insights/what-is-sustainable-forestry/. 
6 United Nations, The Global Forest Goals Report 2021, https://www.
un.org/esa/forests/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/Global-Forest-
Goals-Report-2021.pdf.
18THE BUSINESS OF LOGGING
These environmental and economic factors drive responsible 
logging businesses to maintain the land where these crops 
are planted, protected, and harvested. Ultimately, sustainable 
forest management is the practice of managing the growth, 
composition, structure, and quality of forests to meet society’s 
values and needs, in a manner that enables the continued 
sustainability of those forests.
The United Nations estimates that in the next 30 years, 
population growth will require twice as much food and urban 
areas will house nearly 70 percent of the projected 10 billion 
people living on the planet. This means farmland will give way 
to development and the timber industry will continue to be 
pushed to the edges of desirable land.
Many logging operations already function on steep slopes, 
unforgiving ranges, and soil types that are not conducive 
to growing food or building communities. Challenges in 
this workspace include skilled labor shortages, safety, ﬂ  eet 
management, and operation costs. As with any crop, customers 
want to be more efﬁ  cient, reduce inputs like fuel, and maintain the land they rely on. Using technology, we have the opportunity 
to assist our customers as they are felling, processing, extracting, 
and loading trees to be hauled to mills.
John Deere technology helps customers balance rugged 
demands with environmental concerns.  For example, 
by utilizing TimberMatic™ Maps and Intelligent Boom Control 
(IBC), a logging operation not only gets the most from the crop 
but reduces the impact on the environment around it.
TimberMatic Maps leverages Deere’s leading GPS technology to 
create a map-based production-planning and -tracking system. 
The software allows a contractor to set up a central command 
center that monitors all locations and tracks downed-tree 
placement — even when buried in snow — while minimizing 
disruption to environmentally sensitive areas. Alerts can be 
established so operators will be notiﬁ  ed if they get too close 
to these designated locations.To see more of the story, visit  
deere.com/en/our-company/sustainability/
sustainability-report/forest-management/
19This technology also allows for the design and real-time communication 
of the harvest plan, which means customers spend less time per load 
due to optimized path planning, increased load efﬁ  ciency, and reduced 
driving distance per load. This can help reduce the number of passes a 
machine makes in the forest by up to 15 percent, which aids soil health 
and regrowth through reduced compaction.
John Deere innovation also makes workforce management easier for 
our customers. By simplifying complex tasks and movements on the 
machines, a larger variety of operators with varying skill levels can operate 
the machines and still deliver optimum results, all while spending less 
time on a job. Used by harvesters in the felling (or cutting) stage and on 
forwarders for extractions, IBC is a technology that enables operators to 
control the boom on our machines as if it is a human arm. The controls 
used for reaching and securing trees for harvest intuitively mirror how 
that piece of equipment might function if it was actually the operator’s 
arm. This allows the operator to be 10-percent more efﬁ  cient, which 
translates into both fuel and time savings.
To understand the impact of these technologies, consider a model 
worksite operation in the Scandinavian forest. Here a logging operation 
and its team are harvesting 2,500 cubic meters, which takes the team 
about 11 days to complete on average.6 By combining these technologies  
 — TimberMatic™ Maps and IBC — this customer can save approximately 
$3,000 in operating expenses, reduce fuel usage by up to 156 gallons, 
and time on site by up to 40 hours. These outcomes reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions by about two metric tons (equivalent to eliminating 4,900 
to 5,000 passenger vehicle miles). All in just 11 days, on just one of many 
jobs completed throughout the year.   156
of fuel savedGALLONS
LESS HOURS 40
of labor to complete job
$3,137
cost savings to operator 
(fuel + labor)
2metric tons CO2e reduced
Equivalent to offsetting 5,000 passenger 
car miles driven or adding 2.5 acres of 
forest sequestering carbon8SUSTAINABLE OUTCOMES DELIVERED 
BY JOHN DEERE TECHNOLOGY 
SWEDEN
FINLAND
Outcomes realized per 2,500-cubic-meter model worksite7
6 Using Deere technology and Wheeled Cut-to-Length Equipment on 2,500- cubic 
meter Scandinavian worksite, operating two shifts per day, average 11 working days 
to complete harvest.
7 Outcomes based on customer experience and machine data. Results reﬂ  ect savings 
achieved during processing of 2,500 cubic meters with a typical team working two 
shifts per day, which would take approximately 11 days on average. Results will vary.
8Equivalencies based on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Greenhouse 
Gas Equivalencies Calculator, https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-
equivalencies-calculator.
20TimberMatic™ Maps
Production
Tracking
Visualized 
Production Data
Digital Map
Layers
Site
Progression
Connected 
Insights
INSIGHTS TO
MAXIMIZE
OPPORTUNITIES
21CH950
BOOSTS EFFICIENCY , SUSTAINABILITY 
OF  SUGAR CANE HARVESTSugar cane farming in Brazil is a tricky tightrope of 
coordination, safety, and efﬁ  ciency due to the scale of 
operations, stringent regulations, and the orchestrated 
chaos of machinery and people.
To keep a large sugar cane operation running, our 
customers may manage over 1,000 employees and 
more than 40,000 hectares (roughly 100,000 acres), 
in addition to over 20 harvesters, 40 tractors hauling 
harvested cane out of the ﬁ  eld, and ﬁ  ve or more 
refueling trucks driving back and forth to keep the 
harvesters running 24 hours a day. 
And while sugar cane as a crop is known for its 
importance in the food industry, in Brazil it is equally — 
if not more so — valuable to the renewable-fuel industry 
as the country sharpens its focus on greenhouse gases. 
With roughly 80 percent of the country’s auto ﬂ  eet tied 
to ﬂ  ex-fuel blends, more than 50 percent of sugar cane 
is used for ethanol.
When compared to more widely visible crops — like 
corn and soybeans — sugar cane is unique as it regrows 
off its own stubble or remaining stalk, making it truly 
sustainable unto itself. This regrowth means one sugar 
cane plant can provide up to ﬁ  ve years of harvest 
opportunity. But if the stalk is ripped from the ground, 
that yield potential is gone for good, which means a 
clean cut of the plant is critical.
Given the signiﬁ  cant role that harvest plays in the sugar 
cane production system, any pain points throughout 
this phase have a potentially outsized impact on 
growers. Those challenges include high fuel-input costs, 
high fuel-transport costs, logistics, soil compaction, 
and yield impacts.
In response, John Deere created the CH950 Sugar 
Cane Harvester.  
Launched in 2021, the CH950 is the ﬁ  rst mass-produced 
independent two-row sugar cane harvester in the 
industry. Previous models allowed for harvesting only 
one row of cane at a time because of the sheer weight 
of the crop. Average sugar cane yields are 80–100 
tons per hectare, and an average one-row sugar cane 
harvester operates 3,000 hours per year at 40 tons per 
hour. By comparison, this means the volume of material 
processed by a one-row sugar cane harvester per 
season is six times more than an average corn harvester 
processes per harvest. By adding the second row, the 
volume of material a single sugar cane harvester must 
process per season nearly doubles.When creating the two-row CH950, John Deere 
engineers addressed the challenge of increased volume 
with SmartClean™ system and RowAdapt™ technology. 
This technology allows the cane harvested from the 
dual rows to merge in the machine right after the plant 
is cut. The harvester then conveys the cane up into a 
narrow shaft, which enables control of the crop, allowing 
SmartClean to clean it more effectively. SmartClean 
allows for less cane loss, lower fuel consumption, and 
reduced trash within the crop. 
While nearly doubling the intake of crop is an impressive 
and welcome outcome, the impact of the CH950 goes 
way beyond productivity.  
Previous single-row models meant a six-foot-wide 
harvester had to work in a ﬁ  ve-foot-wide row spacing. The 
challenges associated with this mismatch were multiple.
“It created soil compaction issues as growers traveled 
over the same row spacings multiple times, and it also 
damaged root beds and caused poor cutting 
of the crop,” said Jesse Lopez, global sugar 
cane business manager at John Deere.
23The width of the previous machine form often meant the 
harvester’s tracks rode up along the plant’s root structure 
and would lift the stalk out of the ground when cutting the 
plant. This often hindered the plant’s chance for regrowth.
The rebalanced CH950’s wider base aligns the harvester’s tracks 
directly in the center of the rows, allowing for a 60-percent 
reduction in soil compaction as the machine only travels certain 
row spacings once and other row spacings not at all. 
The CH950 also increases the likelihood the typical ﬁ  ve-year 
growth cycle for the plant can be extended to seven or even 
eight years. By extending the replanting cycle, there are 
beneﬁ  ts beyond increased yields; this also delivers savings in 
input costs like seed and fuel, which also reduces the overall 
environmental impact of the production cycle. “There are so 
many beneﬁ  ts,” Lopez added. “When you look at the savings 
over that typical ﬁ  ve-year cycle, it is really meaningful. 
Adding one more year to the cycle could mean up to an 
additional 20 percent in reduced costs and a positive impact 
on sustainability.”
 
Stacked on top of these beneﬁ  ts is an immense fuel savings 
and logistics beneﬁ  t associated with the CH950. By nearly 
doubling the productivity of each machine, the CH950 has 
improved fuel efﬁ  ciency by up to 17 percent.An added wrinkle in Brazil are regulations that prohibit 
refueling in the ﬁ  eld after dark, a pain point for sugar cane 
growers as previous models of harvesters required refueling 
twice every 24 hours. The CH950 solves this problem with 
both increased fuel efﬁ  ciency and fuel-tank size. This new 
machine can be refueled once per 24 hours, which means the 
challenge of timing the last refueling during daylight hours 
is reduced, and the overall number of trips to the ﬁ  eld for 
refueling is cut by 25 percent, delivering a signiﬁ  cant fuel 
and greenhouse gas emissions savings for the operation.  
This impressive increase in productivity of a single machine 
reduces the number of harvesters needed to do the same job 
by a staggering 50 percent. For our model-farm operation, 
this means 11 machines instead of 22. The extra row also 
means up to 27-percent fewer tractors are needed to move 
the cane from the harvest wagon to the transport trucks. 
And fewer machines in the ﬁ  eld means a reduction in the 
number of operators of approximately 35 percent.
Felipe Dias, product manager for sugar cane, said it’s about 
being able to do more with less. “We will be able to produce 
the same amount of sugar and the same amount of ethanol 
with fewer resources,” he said. “That is the deﬁ  nition of 
sustainability.”
To see more of the story, visit
deere.com/en/our-company/sustainability/
sustainability-report/ch950-sugar-cane-harvest/
24CH950 SUGAR CANE HARVESTERS DELIVER SUSTAINABLE 
OUTCOMES ACROSS THE ENTIRE PRODUCTION SYSTEM: 1
                              LITERS  of fuel saved (300,000 gallons) 1.1M
KM  of reduced driving (7 ,145 miles) 11,500
fewer hours of labor 150,000METRIC TONS C02e reduced 3,600
• This translates into over 9 million miles  
driven by average passenger vehicle²
Economic value to the producer of 
R$18,000,000  or USD$3,000,000additional tons of sugar cane harvested due to reduced losses 52,000
1  These outcomes are based on a model sugar cane farm operating in 
Brazil on 42,000 hectares. These ﬁ  gures represent the outcomes realized 
per harvest operating CH950 Sugar Cane Harvesters across the entire 
operation. Results based on testing conducted in conjunction with the 
University of São Paulo State (UNESP-NEMPA). Results will vary.2  Equivalencies based on U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator, 
https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-
equivalencies-calculator.
25The heartbeat to any agronomic solution starts 
with being able to do more with less. More ground 
covered in less time. More options with less 
headache. And more yield with less input cost.
See & Spray Select adds one “more” to that list: 
more weed control with less chemical use.
See & Spray Select continues to advance 
the precision agriculture landscape by using 
sophisticated camera and nozzle-control 
technology from the ExactApply™ sprayer system 
foundation to transition from managing by ﬁ  eld to 
zone to row and, eventually, to individual plants. 
Or, in this case, weeds — the enemy of increased 
proﬁ  tability.
Available on new John Deere 400- and 600-Series 
Sprayers, See & Spray Select provides an innovative 
targeted broadcast-spraying solution. 
Used on unplanted ground, the “green-on-brown” 
technology differentiates color and can distinguish 
green from soil. When green is detected, spray 
nozzles are activated in varying degrees based 
on target rates needed.
On average, See & Spray Select can reduce contact-
herbicide usage by up to 77 percent while still 
hitting 98 percent of the weeds in the ﬁ  eld — 
essentially the same rate as broadcast spraying.1 
Savings are quickly accessible by the operator on 
the See & Spray dashboard via the in-cab display. 
In addition, the display provides a coverage map 
of areas traveled where herbicide was not applied. 
The display streams this data to the John Deere Operations Center, which provides customers with 
a ﬁ  eld map of herbicide application and quantiﬁ  es 
outcomes like acres not sprayed and herbicide 
savings.
By using fewer inputs, the need to reﬁ  ll is reduced, 
allowing farmers to cover more acres in a day.
The overall savings can help justify the use of more 
expensive and complex tank mixes to manage 
herbicide-resistant weeds. Studies have proven 
that when more than two modes of action are used, 
weeds are 83 times less likely to develop herbicide 
resistance, making it more cost effective to use.2
What’s more, engaging the technology to switch 
from broadcast application to See & Spray Select’s 
precision application is a seamless integration made 
from inside the cab.SEE & SPRAY™ SELECT SYSTEM  
SAVES (AND TARGETS) GREEN
1 In tests over 75,000 acres of fallow ground, typical weed pressure of 
  3,000 weeds per acre, with spray-length settings of small or medium, 
  customers experienced an average herbicide savings of 77 percent 
  when compared with a broadcast sprayer.2 Based on Evans JA, Tranel PJ, Hager AG, et al., Managing the 
  evolution of herbicide resistance. Pest Manag Sci; 2016;72:74–80.
2627AN OPPORTUNITY THE SIZE OF OUR FLEET:
PERFORMANCE UPGRADES PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY
OUR PERFORMANCE UPGRADES MISSION:
Shorten the technology-adoption curve, 
promote sustainable operations, and unlock 
customer economic value.The average age of equipment in North America 
is historically high, and John Deere wants to provide 
solutions that upgrade the technology, performance, 
and sustainability of the entire ﬂ  eet. To extend the 
useful life of products, customers can add technology 
and components that improve the performance and 
sustainability of machines beyond their original capacity. 
Performance upgrades allow customers to operate 
new technology without new equipment purchases. 
This balances productivity and capital expenditure to 
ultimately beneﬁ  t a customer’s bottom line. 
These innovative solutions also support a circular 
economy, which is based on the idea that we can eliminate 
waste. To achieve circularity, products are designed to 
last and optimized for disassembly, transformation, and 
renewal. This system encourages the preservation of 
natural resources, the reduction of energy consumption, 
the introduction of fewer plastics into the waste stream, 
and smaller carbon footprints overall. 
What’s more, performance upgrades enable our dealers 
to serve customers more efﬁ  ciently because technicians 
are working on machines and technologies they 
know well. When customers add updated John Deere 
technology to their machines, it works on their existing 
machine displays and seamlessly transfers their data to 
the John Deere Operations Center. It also allows farmers 
to get connected support, communicate with their trusted 
advisors, and make informed decisions for the future of 
their businesses. “When it’s all [John Deere] green, it reduces downtime 
for our customer, which is critical when the window to 
complete their job can be small. They come to a solution 
provider who adds seamless technology integration, 
making the John Deere dealer the recognized expert 
to have customer problems resolved,” Miles Keaton, 
director for Performance Upgrades, said.
 
On top of adding value for customers, performance 
upgrades represent a signiﬁ  cant business opportunity. 
There are 150,000 tractors, 70,000 planters, 50,000 
sprayers, and 90,000 combines sowing, protecting, and 
harvesting U.S. and Canadian crops each year. Deere can 
provide updates to planters back to 2005 and sprayers 
back to 2014. Kits for older model years and additional 
equipment are in development.
Deere currently offers 12 performance upgrades to the 
row crop planter product line, with particular focus on 
ExactEmerge™ row units, ExactRate™ liquid fertilizer, and 
Individual Row Hydraulic Downforce (IRHD). Customers 
select these upgrades to reduce inputs and achieve a 
better yield with uniform emergence and consistent 
seed depth across varying soil types. Deere also offers 
10 performance upgrades to sprayers, the most popular 
example of which is ExactApply™, which provides 
precision droplet control in liquid application 
to dramatically reduce overuse. The planting step is perhaps the most critical pass of the 
year for a farmer. The largest single impact that a planter 
has on corn yield is the ability to control the depth of the 
row unit. Customers with a 2005–2013 planter — before 
ExactEmerge row units and other advancements became 
available — can see more consistent seed depth and 
uniform emergence by adding IRHD and ExactEmerge. 
These Performance Upgrades can result in a signiﬁ  cant 
increase in corn yields if done correctly.
And while yields are increasing, inputs are decreasing. 
ExactEmerge accurately spaces each seed to achieve 
99-percent singulation, meaning higher yields are achieved 
with fewer seeds planted. While the seed is planted, 
ExactRate liquid fertilizer system applies liquid fertilizer 
with precision, reducing overlaps and applying the proper 
rate across a ﬁ  eld. These technologies can operate at 
double the speeds of conventional planters through the 
ﬁ  eld. This reduces the time required to plant and ensures 
the seeds are planted in the optimal planting window for 
maximum yield potential.
ExactApply sprayer system or nozzle control is our most 
common Sprayer Upgrade Technology, with the most 
advanced nozzle control on the market. Once in the ﬁ  eld, 
this technology enables customers to place chemicals exactly where the plant needs it. This reduces overall chemical usage 
without sacriﬁ  cing yield and provides beneﬁ  ts for both the 
customer’s business and their environment.
The key feature of ExactApply is precise droplet-size 
control over the widest range of operating speeds in the 
industry using Pulse Width Modulating (PWM) technology. 
This allows farmers to reduce overapplication and improve 
accuracy, all while saving two to ﬁ  ve percent on herbicide 
and pesticide use and conserving water. This sprayer 
upgrade will cover more acres faster, allowing customers to 
get the beneﬁ  ts of the newest sprayer technology with the 
equipment they already own. 
Armed with these capabilities and an understanding of 
our customers’ needs, Deere’s mission becomes rather 
simple: Shorten the technology-adoption curve, promote 
sustainable operations, and unlock customer economic 
value by installing the latest technology on later-in-
lifecycle equipment.
Better technology. Better solutions. Better yields. All while 
keeping our planet in better health. 
To see more of the story, visit 
deere.com/en/our-company/sustainability/
sustainability-report/performance-upgrades/ENVIRONMENTALCLIMATE STEWARDSHIP
ENVIRONMENTALReducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that 
are contributing to climate change requires the 
commitment of many to invest, innovate, and create 
solutions that don’t exist today. It requires all of us 
to look at our businesses and operations, and drive 
innovations that help reduce our own GHG emissions 
footprint. But it will take much more than that. It 
also means creating machinery and equipment with 
reduced tailpipe emissions and leveraging biofuels and 
renewable fuels. And it means that we at John Deere 
must enable our customers, through technology and 
data-driven decision-making tools, to understand and 
reduce their own GHG emissions footprint. 
This is where John Deere is uniquely positioned to 
lead the way. We see the global transition to a low 
carbon economy as a signiﬁ  cant strategic opportunity 
for our business and for our customers — whether 
that be through increased demand for sustainably 
grown grains, biofuels made from sustainably grown grains and oilseeds, or low-carbon solutions 
on earthmoving and roadbuilding worksites — 
our technology and solutions can and will enable 
our customers to participate in these economic 
opportunities. That alignment of sustainability and 
economic opportunity is what we believe will drive 
the necessary change and adoption. 
This year we completed the analysis necessary 
to publish our ﬁ  rst Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report. For additional 
detail on our governance, strategy, risk management, 
and metrics and targets related to climate change, 
please refer to our TCFD Report.  
31As John Deere continues to progress on achieving its 2022 
Sustainability Goals, there are several bright spots aiding 
its success. One such example resides in India. John Deere’s 
global Sustainable Energy Use goal is getting impressive 
engagement, and results, from the team at the company’s 
manufacturing facility in Pune, India. 
The Pune team’s engagement began with a large offsite 
wind-supply agreement more than 10 years ago. Today, 
our Pune facility is also home to one of the enterprise’s 
largest onsite solar installations. This has positioned Pune 
as an early leader in the company’s renewable-electricity 
efforts in a strategy balancing onsite and offsite power 
solutions with long-term solutions. The Pune site is well 
on the way to having more than half of its electricity come 
from renewable sources by the end of 2022, which is the 
GHG emissions equivalent of removing over 2,000 passenger 
vehicles from the road per year.2 Our India team is executing 
on a strategy to continue to grow the long-term renewable-
energy supply for all our key India locations.OPERATIONAL GHG EMISSIONS: 
SCOPES 1 AND 2
As part of our 2022 Sustainability Goals, we committed to 
reducing our absolute GHG emissions by 15 percent from our 
baseline of 2017 through the utilization of at least 50-percent 
renewable electricity. And we are on a path to exceed this goal. 
In 2021, we achieved 20-percent reduction in GHG emissions from 
2017 baseline and 40.5-percent renewable electricity.¹ Key drivers 
of the reductions we saw this year included: the implementation 
of more than 40 energy-efﬁ  ciency projects globally, in lighting 
and controls, compressed air, and manufacturing processes; the 
continued greening of our electricity supply; and an employee 
focus on eliminating energy waste. For 2021, our enterprise Scope 
1 GHG emissions were 403,300 metric tons and our Scope 2 GHG 
emissions were 407 ,700 metric tons.
But we aren’t ﬁnished yet. As part of our newly launched Leap 
Ambitions, we have recommitted to reducing our Scope 1 and 
2 GHG emissions, this time by an additional 50 percent from 
2021 levels and submitting this target to Science Based Targets 
initiative for approval. To achieve this goal, John Deere will 
continue to focus on energy efﬁ  ciency while transitioning to 
low-carbon energy sources like onsite renewable solutions and 
partnerships for offsite renewable projects. 
John Deere India: Leading 
in Renewable Electricity
ENVIRONMENTAL
1 Data associated with the operation of PLA Holding Netherlands B. V ., 
Mazzotti S.r.l., and King Agro Europa, S.L., and their related subsidiaries, 
and the Wirtgen Group entities are included for all years in the reported 
metrics. Data associated with the operation of Unimil is not included in 
the reported greenhouse-gas and renewable-electricity metrics.
² Equivalencies based on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Greenhouse 
Gas Equivalencies Calculator, https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-
gas-equivalencies-calculator.
32During 2021, we calculated our Scope 3 GHG emissions. 
Through this process, we identiﬁ  ed Category 1 
(Purchased Goods & Services) and Category 11 (Use of 
Sold Products) as the two categories where we have the 
greatest opportunity to reduce GHG emissions impact. 
Our Scope 3 emissions, represent 99 percent of our 
overall GHG emissions and our Category 11 emissions 
are over 92 percent of our total GHG emissions. For 
2021, our total Scope 3 GHG emissions were 112,453,000 
metric tons.
Based on our calculations, we have committed to 
submit a plan to the Science Based Targets initiative 
for approval that includes a 30-percent reduction in 
our Scope 3 GHG emissions by 2030. To achieve this, 
we will collaborate with our supply chain partners 
to ﬁ  nd opportunities for them to reduce their GHG 
emissions. Additionally, we are committed to developing 
products, technologies, and solutions that address the 
emissions of the products we produce. We will be doing research and development on a variety of avenues for 
alternative solutions related to machine propulsion 
— this will include electriﬁ  cation, renewable fuels, 
and biofuels. We have already started the journey of 
electriﬁ  cation, and our construction and forestry group 
is leading the way on a recent project. 
John Deere’s continued innovation of electriﬁ  ed equipment now 
includes its introduction of the E-Power Backhoe, a battery-electric 
prototype built off the current 310L 100-horsepower diesel equivalent.
Spurred by interest from National Grid — an electricity, natural gas, and 
clean-energy-delivery company based in the northeast United States — 
the E-Power Backhoe will utilize its cleaner power source to reduce CO2e 
emissions and diesel fuel consumption over the life of the product.
Currently in Phase I proof of concept, the E-Power Backhoe is being 
put to work in real-life jobsite scenarios. By leveraging the company’s 
previous product successes and the Construction & Forestry Division’s 
hybrid-electric loader line, the backhoe team was able to move 
quickly in getting a prototype into ﬁ  eld-testing in less than one year. 
Deere expects to leverage insights from the E-Power Backhoe across 
multiple product lines to have not only a backhoe but multiple machine 
forms that incorporate electriﬁ  cation, putting Deere on a path to 
revolutionizing the earthmoving ﬂ  eet.SUPPLY CHAIN AND USE OF SOLD PRODUCTS 
GHG EMISSIONS: SCOPE 3
E-Power Backhoe:
A Key Step in Our Electriﬁ  cation Journey
ENVIRONMENTAL
To see more of the story, visit  
www.deere.com/en/our-company/sustainability/
sustainability-report/e-power-backhoe/
33ENVIRONMENTAL
Carbon Pilot Program Focuses on Data, Agronomics
In early 2021, John Deere began a carbon pilot 
program with two goals in mind — helping 
customers improve their agriculture businesses 
beyond crop yield and continuing its impact on 
the environmental aspects essential to their 
operations.
The pilot aimed to utilize Deere’s ever-increasing 
data-collection prowess (currently at more than 
315 million engaged acres globally) to educate 
and assist customers regarding the agronomic 
beneﬁ  ts of carbon capture and the possibility 
of earning carbon credits for their efforts.Currently, 15–20 U.S. customers, with a 
representative total of 5,000 acres, are working 
with Deere to better understand sustainability 
markets, such as carbon markets, and how 
best to navigate through them as a customer. 
In addition to helping customers leverage 
the sustainability beneﬁ  ts of Deere precision 
technology tools, the pilot is also focused on 
assisting customers with two primary practices 
that are being utilized for overall soil health 
and carbon sequestration — cover cropping 
and no-till practices.While we work to reduce our own GHG emissions, John Deere is 
committed to delivering value to our customers through cutting-
edge technology and solutions that will make their operations 
more sustainable and lower their GHG emissions. The production 
systems we serve are complex operations that have multiple sources 
of GHG emissions beyond the tailpipe emissions associated with 
their equipment and machinery. For example, in agriculture other 
contributors include fertilizers, herbicides, fungicides, logistics and 
transportation, and drying activities. In addition, agriculture has the 
potential to transform from a net emitter of carbon to a net offsetter 
of carbon through reducing inputs and changing practices. For example, 
reducing tillage passes, nutrient management, and cover cropping all 
have the ability to enable our customers to sequester carbon in their soil 
— and potentially get compensated for it as new markets evolve, such 
as premium commodity markets for sustainably grown grains or new 
sustainability ecosystem markets. 
This is why our Leap Ambitions encompass not only our own 
emissions, but also focus on helping reduce our customers’ inputs 
and emissions. Our investment in solutions for our customers 
can both have an impact on GHG emissions and unlock additional 
economic opportunities. 
John Deere offers products and technologies in the market today 
that already reduce the GHG emissions of our customers’ operations. 
Our technologies optimize passes and reduce inputs like fertilizer and 
herbicides through precise application. Less inputs and fewer passes 
translate into lower GHG emissions. 
And we have a roadmap of additional technologies and solutions that 
will build upon these outcomes. We are also engaging closely with 
our customers to more clearly understand the science and pain points 
behind soil-carbon management and carbon sequestration. ExactRate™ Liquid Fertilizer Systems 
Optimizes Nutrient Stewardship 
When agricultural customers discuss input costs, 
fertilizers are a critical topic. Centered in that 
discussion are the four R’s of nutrient stewardship 
— right time, right rate, right source, and right 
place. Deere’s introduction in 2021 of the integrated 
ExactRate liquid fertilizer solution helps address 
each one.
The factory-installed system takes advantage of 
existing John Deere technology — ExactEmerge row 
units, variable-rate capability, curve compensation, 
and row-by-row control — to allow farmers to 
apply nutrients at the most optimal time of the 
year — when the seed is going into the ground. 
By integrating ExactRate with the ExactEmerge 
planter, customers can now plant their seeds and 
apply fertilizer in the same pass. 
Prior to ExactRate, time constraints in the spring 
led many customers to apply fertilizer in the fall 
when time was more plentiful. However, winter 
snow melt and spring rains often caused nitrogen 
leaching, which takes the fertilizer from the soil 
and washes it away. By removing the extra pass 
required to apply spring fertilizer, ExactRate is 
a critical step toward optimizing, and ultimately 
reducing, fertilizer application.BEYOND OUR OWN EMISSIONS
34John Deere provides solutions that are not only 
more productive and efﬁ  cient, but also minimize 
impact on the environment. During the whole life 
of the product, from design to end-of-life, we 
enhance the environmental sustainability of our 
products. From our 2022 Product Sustainability 
goals to our new Leap Ambitions, John Deere 
continues to focus on using less and better, using 
longer, and using again.
Our 2022 Product Sustainability goals include 
reducing the environmental impact, such as 
CO2-equivalent emissions, on 90 percent of 
our new product programs as well as increasing 
remanufacturing revenue by 30 percent with 
a baseline year of 2017 . In 2021, 71 percent of 
our new product programs incorporated goals 
to lower the environmental impact compared 
to the previous comparable model, and our 
remanufacturing revenue was 16.3-percent 
higher than 2017 .
Our newly launched Leap Ambitions place a 
renewed emphasis on product circularity. We 
have committed that by 2030: 95 percent of 
the materials (by weight) in our products will be 
recyclable, 65 percent of the content (by weight) 
going into our machines will be sustainable, and 
our remanufacturing revenue will be 50 percent 
higher than in 2021.USE LESS AND BETTER
We continually strive to improve productivity, 
enhance fuel efﬁ  ciency, reduce material usage, 
increase sustainable-material usage, and design 
for remanufacturing. John Deere’s products 
incorporate various sustainable materials such 
as recycled content, renewable materials (i.e., 
soy-based resin), and low-carbon materials that 
provide many beneﬁ  ts. Sustainable materials 
lower the product’s environmental impact, 
can reduce product weight, and enable the 
incorporation of our own customers’ products 
within our machines. We will continue to work 
on building our sustainable-materials usage 
to achieve our Leap Ambition of sustainable 
materials comprising 65 percent of our 
products by weight.
USE LONGER
Even with the long life of our products today, 
we continue to innovate to further extend 
our product lifecycles. John Deere has three 
processes by which to extend the useful life of 
our products — performance upgrades, rebuild, 
and remanufacturing.
PERFORMANCE UPGRADES
John Deere has aggressive goals to enable 
customers to improve the efﬁ  ciency and 
accuracy of their existing machines while 
minimizing the impact on the environment 
via the reduction of inputs. By upgrading older 
vehicles, such as a planter with ExactEmerge™ 
row unit or a sprayer with ExactApply,™ the 
customer can improve yields and reduce input 
costs while reducing the environmental impact 
of their work.
ENVIRONMENTALPRODUCT CIRCULARITY 
35John Deere has increased its representation within REMADE — 
a public-private partnership established by the United States 
Department of Energy — by contributing toward the program’s 
initial $140-million investment, making the company one of 35 
Tier 2 members. By linking John Deere Reman to REMADE, the 
company continues its efforts to promote a circular economy and 
accelerate getting solutions to market. The Tier 2 status allows 
Deere to have representation on REMADE’s governance board, 
access to federal funding, and participation in full projects.Deere, REMADE Work to 
Strengthen Circular EconomyREBUILD
The John Deere Powertrain ReLife Plus program is a machine-
rebuild program that extends the life of our construction 
customers’ machines. Starting with a thorough machine 
inspection by a certiﬁ  ed John Deere technician, the machine 
is rebuilt to include a complete set of John Deere Reman 
powertrain components and then covered by a standard 
one-year warranty on all John Deere Reman components. 
On the ag side of our business, sugar-cane and forage-
harvester customers in the U.S. and Europe also can rebuild 
their machines, thereby extending the life of the product. 
A longer life for our machines means existing equipment can 
stay in use longer, extending replacement frequency and 
reducing the overall environmental impact of each machine.
REMANUFACTURING
Remanufacturing reduces John Deere’s impact on the 
environment by reducing our reliance on raw materials through 
the reuse of parts. This enables us to eliminate waste and 
reduce energy use compared to manufacturing new parts. 
By bringing parts back to the original speciﬁ  cation, our 
John Deere Reman business provides quality remanufactured 
products such as engines, drivetrains, hydraulic and electronic 
components to agricultural, construction, and forestry 
customers at a lower price point than new parts and provides 
alternatives to customers looking for value and uptime. 
Customer acceptance of remanufactured parts continues 
to grow, and the environmental message associated with 
remanufacturing is resonating on a global level. Our continued 
focus on growing the remanufacturing business is reﬂ  ected 
in our Leap Ambition focused on growing remanufacturing 
revenue an incremental 50 percent by 2030 with 2021 as 
the baseline.
USE AGAIN
We design each of our machines so that when it reaches the 
end of its useful life, which can no longer be extended, most 
of its parts, components, and materials can be reused again 
in other products or recycled. We aspire to use high rates of 
recyclable material and create recycling streams that ensure the 
circularity of our products — this directly connects to our Leap 
Ambition of achieving 95 percent of recyclable content in our 
products by weight by 2030.
ENVIRONMENTALPRODUCT 
CIRCULARITY
To see more of the story, visit
deere.com/en/our-company/
sustainability/sustainability-
report/circular-economy/Our current water goal is to implement 
water Best Management Practices in 
all our water-scarce locations. In 2021, 
80 percent of the best management 
practices have been implemented at 
our water-scarce facilities.¹
Water is a vital component of our global 
manufacturing operations. Areas faced 
with the potential for water scarcity 
are our main priority. Using the World 
Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk 
Atlas tool, 17 John Deere manufacturing 
sites were determined to be in areas of 
water scarcity, mainly in Mexico, India, 
and China.¹ 
Pursuant to our commitment to achieve 
our 2022 Sustainability Goals, our 
manufacturing sites in these areas must 
implement applicable Best Management Practices. These Best Management 
Practices may include actions like: site-
speciﬁ  c water-management strategies, 
employee-education and -awareness 
programs, and review of existing 
operations for efﬁ  ciency opportunities.  
John Deere Dewas Works in Dewas, 
India, has reduced the intensity of 
water consumed more than 50 percent 
since ﬁ  scal year 2018 by focusing on 
reducing fresh water use in operations, 
optimization of water usage in the 
paint system, installing touch sensors, 
employee awareness, and reuse of 
water. One-hundred percent of the 
manufacturing facilities in India are zero 
discharge for wastewater, meaning the 
water consumed for operations is reused 
within the operation or facility.Even though our goal is focused on 
water-scarce locations, our commitment 
to using water responsibly is a critical 
part of the way we operate all our global 
facilities. These facilities are required at 
a minimum to develop and review a 
water-management strategy annually 
and develop and implement an employee-
engagement and -awareness campaign.
Looking forward to our Leap Ambitions, 
we will continue to focus on reducing 
fresh water consumption where it 
matters most, at our manufacturing 
locations in water-scarce areas. Deere is 
committing to reduce the water intensity 
in our manufacturing operations in 
water-scarce areas 10 percent by 2030. 
Our current recycling goal aims to recycle 85 percent of our 
waste from operations by 2022. In 2021, 83 percent of our 
waste was recycled.¹
Facilities have established waste-management programs 
that provide guidance for how to comply with waste-
management requirements while increasing recycling. 
Once waste and recyclables are separated, our facilities 
work with approved suppliers to ensure they are recycled 
or reused. We have processes in place to monitor our 
suppliers to ensure that we know where our waste and 
recyclables are ending up.
One of the largest leftovers of the manufacturing process is 
steel. Steel and scrap metal are not included within our waste 
reporting because they are commodities with established 
markets and associated economic value. Therefore, we 
recycle these materials through the resale process.
Moving forward, the focus will be looking beyond the 
disposal method and proactively looking to reduce waste 
generation in our operations. We are committed to reducing 
waste intensity from our operations 15 percent by 2030.RESPONSIBLE WATER USE
WASTE ELIMINATION 
ENVIRONMENTAL
With the acquisition of three scrap-metal-processing 
machines, the John Deere Waterloo Foundry Operation 
is moving closer and closer to scrap-steel independence 
and the ultimate recycling success.
Historically, the purchase of the iron and steel required 
for metal castings often meant working with outside 
sources to obtain the needed materials. Now, however, 
more and more of the shavings, sheets, and castings 
are coming from Deere facilities.
To achieve this, in 2021, the Foundry added a briquetter 
for metal shavings, a shear machine for processing spent 
sheets of metal used during laser cutting, and a casting 
crusher used on large castings found right in Waterloo’s 
own backyard.
“While still in the early stages, the Foundry is already 
seeing improved quality in the output from reusing 
their own scrap. This is good for Deere and good for the 
environment.” — Brian Harmon, Business Unit ManagerRecycling Leads to Steel 
Independence at the Waterloo Foundry¹ Data associated with the operation of PLA Holding Netherlands 
B. V ., Mazzotti S.r.l., King Agro Europa, S.L., and Unimil, 
and their related subsidiaries, and the Wirtgen Group entities, 
are not included in the reported metrics.
37SOCIALAt John Deere, a global team of diverse individuals delivers the most advanced products, technologies, 
and solutions to ensure the productivity, proﬁ  tability, and sustainability of a diverse set of customers 
around the world. We are best positioned to understand and solve the needs of these customers 
when we foster a diverse, engaged workforce and a culture of inclusivity.
At Deere, we know that our actions impact more than 75,000 employees as well as a broad set of 
stakeholders who rely on us. Therefore, our diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) framework incorporates 
our broader sphere of inﬂ  uence including customers, dealers, employees, suppliers, and communities. 
We must run together in order to leap forward.DEERE’S FRAMEWORK FOR A DIVERSE,  
EQUITABLE, AND INCLUSIVE FUTURE
SOCIAL
39Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) are not only priorities, 
but a mindset at John Deere. And it is what drives us to 
work tirelessly to attract a broad mix of employees with 
differing gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, gender expression, expertise, geographic, and life 
experience backgrounds.
And we know our work is only just beginning when we 
are onboarding a new employee. We continue to develop 
programs that will enable all our employees to reach 
their highest potential throughout their careers. Our 
employees are our most valuable asset.
Diverse teams generate better ideas and make better 
decisions. DEI is embedded in our recruitment and 
employee-development processes, which leverage talent-
attraction methods, technology, managers and cross-
functional teams focused on diversity, and our Employee 
Resource Groups (ERG).Our leadership sets a consistent and transparent tone on 
DEI. Leadership training focuses on building an inclusive 
environment, driving change, developing talent, modeling 
our values and culture, and empowering others. 
To help managers with development and team building, 
we also gather feedback via an inclusion index as part of 
our Employee Experience Survey. 
Starting in 2021, employees globally are taking part in 
a progressive learning plan that provides a series of 
microlearning courses that develop the DEI know-how 
of our employees in short, engaging segments. The 
current courses cover topics such as unconscious bias, 
psychological safety, and empathy, and look to educate 
and inspire employees to grow in their DEI know-how 
through the bite-sized learning.
We continue to further interweave DEI into all aspects 
of how we lead and do business. Regional DEI councils 
help build and support a diverse, equitable, and inclusive 
work environment.
Our company-sponsored ERGs are employee-run 
organizations formed around a common dimension 
of diversity, interest, education, or experience that 
affects the workplace. ERGs bring together individuals 
with shared interests, while serving as resources to our 
business. Their efforts address three key focus areas: 
employee development, community involvement, and 
business alignment.LEADING WITH A DEI MINDSET
We want the best teams, comprised 
of the best people, who are each 
an integral part of the best place 
to work  — John Deere. 
SOCIAL
To see more of the story, visit 
https://www.deere.com/en/ourcompany/
sustainability/sustainability-report/
educate-and-empower/
40When Leslee Hager, vice president of internal audit, talks 
about DEI at John Deere, she often references “square zero.” 
It’s a phrase, or marker, that describes the starting point in an 
employee’s personal journey toward educating themselves in 
understanding the differences inherent in all people, including 
race, ethnicity, disabilities, sexual orientation, gender, etc. 
And understanding, she said, is the key to moving a company 
from attracting diverse talent to becoming a company that 
retains diverse talent. “ As a company and organization, we did 
a good job of bringing in diverse talent, but we weren’t always 
connecting and creating the environment and the culture where 
people felt comfortable staying,” Hager said. 
The John Deere Accounting & Finance organization had earned 
a reputation for being diligent in DEI, but during a late 2020 
roundtable discussion, Hager recalled a tipping point that 
motivated the team to raise the bar. “We were told, ‘No, this 
is not enough,’” Hager said. “One of the leaders said, ‘We need 
to take big action and we need to make sure all our leaders 
are engaged.’”
That’s all the team needed to hear.
ELEVATING THE PROCESS
The Accounting & Finance team has workstreams focused 
on career development, diversity in leadership, recruiting 
and early career, culture and engagement, DEI conversations, 
and — linking them all — inclusion and communication. Each 
workstream has employee champions who hold regular 
meetings and facilitate subgroups that meet more frequently 
to keep interaction topical, educational, and engaging. 
The Accounting & Finance leaders also piloted the United 
Way’s “United for Equity” program — a 21-day challenge. 
The team utilized the program’s structure to keep the DEI 
conversation moving. Shane Edwards, regional group controller for North America, 
leads the DEI conversations. His monthly meetings typically 
have more than 500 employee participants. “Conversations 
create understanding, understanding creates empathy, and 
empathy creates action,” Edwards said. “With that, I believe 
the more we really listen to each other, the more we will work 
together to create a truly inclusive environment across all 
the workstreams.”
The Finance Development Program (FDP) is another program 
that further supports the DEI movement within Accounting 
& Finance. In addition to the broad support provided to all 
FDP participants, the program pairs diverse new hires with 
a mentor and coach, and connects them to professional 
organizations like the National Association of Black 
Accountants.
SEEING IMPACT
The process, planning, and passion are proving effective.
Three years ago, Deere noticed that the percentage of women 
in middle-to-upper-level Accounting & Finance roles did not 
reﬂ  ect the percentage of women in lower-level positions. With 
focused efforts, the department made meaningful progress 
on building a pipeline of diverse talent for these middle- and 
upper-level positions and has seen the percentage of mid-
career roles in the U.S. held by women increase.
With results like that, the team’s efforts haven’t gone 
unnoticed — in fact, the organization’s DEI educational model 
is currently being implemented by the Supply Management 
and the Global Law Services Group organizations.
One item highlighted during the 21-day challenge was Amy Wilson and Nicole Shearer’s “Perspectives” 
blog. The blog, known for its positive and unﬂ  inching approach, began as a look at being a woman at 
Deere and immediately earned a following. It has since grown in inclusion, encompassing everything 
from gender, religion, culture, race, and dual-career dynamics.
Since its February 2021 launch, the blog has generated and gathered dozens of submissions and posts. 
Many of the real-life stories share career issues and personal encounters.
“In almost every blog post we tried to include an action item because that’s ultimately the 
point,” Shearer, manager cash management, said. “We’re hoping that we can be a voice that 
encourages people to really think about something from a different perspective and then 
hopefully have the conversations, raise awareness, and, if it all goes well, change behaviors.”
OPEN CONVERSATIONS 
HOPE TO EDUCATE, EMPOWER 
SOCIAL
41FACTORY LEADERSHIP’S  MISSION 
LINKS COMPANY WITH COMMUNITY
When Becky Guinn, factory manager at John Deere’s Waterloo Works, 
thinks about the responsibilities that come with running one of the 
company’s most iconic facilities, she doesn’t limit herself to the four 
walls that surround her. And she doesn’t want her team to think that 
way either.
Guinn has been an energetic and effective advocate in recognizing 
what the area’s largest employer can bring by way of addressing hunger, 
housing, economic growth, diversity, and workforce development. 
She’s very clear in her expectations: Y ou have two jobs with John Deere, 
one inside the factory and one outside the factory.
Guinn has “partnered” members of her leadership team with an outside 
nonproﬁ  t group — like Iowa Heartland Habitat for Humanity or the 
Northeast Iowa Food Bank — and helped strengthen that link between 
the area’s largest employer and the identiﬁ  ed areas of greatest need in 
the community. To add rigor to the plan, Guinn established a community 
relations manager position and formed the Waterloo Citizenship 
Leadership Council. It’s all part of the “intentional presence” Guinn 
said is needed within John Deere’s home communities.
Guinn took the factory’s leadership role in September 2019 , nearly a year 
after the ﬁ  nancial website 24/7 Wall Street called Waterloo the worst 
city in America for Blacks to live. In her two-plus years in the role, her 
efforts haven’t gone unnoticed.
“Never before have I worked with someone with as sincere intentions 
to use the inﬂ  uence and resources of their company to improve this 
community as Becky,” Waterloo Mayor Quentin Hart said.
Despite the challenges brought on by a pandemic, Waterloo Works 
employees continued to remain active in the key areas of community 
engagement and worked collaboratively on plans to attract and retain 
top talent and make Waterloo a pipeline for diverse talent. Through 
the current reporting cycle, there has been a 32-percent increase in 
volunteerism over the previous year with a 6-percent increase from 
production employees.
SOCIAL
To see more of the story, visit  
deere.com/en/our-company/sustainability/
sustainability-report/factory-leaderships-mission/
42SUPPLIER DIVERSITY FOCUS 
ALIGNS WITH HIGHER PURPOSE
At John Deere we believe we can improve our business while making a meaningful 
difference in our communities through responsible business practices. This includes 
fostering an equitable, diverse, and inclusive supply chain. This is why we launched 
a new supplier-diversity strategy in 2021. 
Our new strategy strives to generate economic value and jobs by working with small 
and/or diverse suppliers, increase competition and reduce risk in our supply chain, 
and foster innovation and diversity of thought in our business and communities. 
To achieve this, we have committed to achieve the following by 2025: 
• Spend $500 million with minority-owned businesses 
• Spend $1 billion with woman-owned businesses 
• Actively grow our relationships with other disadvantaged business enterprises (DBEs), 
including those owned by veterans, members of the LGBTQ community, individuals 
with disabilities, small businesses, as well as businesses in historically underutilized 
business zones. 
Our supply management organization is working toward these goals by actively 
growing our relationships with minority-owned and disadvantaged business 
enterprises, ﬁ  nding better ways to identify diverse suppliers, and developing a more 
equitable onboarding process to support a diverse and sustainable supply base.
Luiza Lisboa has been an employee of 
John Deere for 11 years. As a territory 
aftermarket business manager in Brazil, she 
helps John Deere dealers connect with their 
customers from the ﬁ  rst day of ownership 
through the entire lifecycle of the equipment. 
As a female in a traditionally male-dominated 
industry, she noticed a pattern over time — 
she was often the only woman in the room.
Last year, Lisboa connected with fellow Deere 
employees Cecília Breda, business development 
and partnering manager, and Fabiana Franco, 
dealer development manager, who also felt 
concerned by this trend — speciﬁ  cally, the lack 
of women in leadership positions at dealerships. 
They partnered with and were ultimately 
sponsored by Assodeere, the Brazilian 
Association of John Deere Distributors, forming 
a team with Giovana Teixeira, Assodeere’s 
ﬁ  nancial and sustainability director, and Rejane 
Hermann, its executive director. Together, they 
created “Women of Impact,” a working group 
with a mission to work with the John Deere 
Dealership Network in Brazil to develop an 
organizational culture and further new and existing initiatives that allow for more space 
and support for women. The ultimate goal 
is to increase the number of women working 
within the dealership network in general and in 
management speciﬁ  cally. Women currently hold 
22 percent of the total positions and 19 percent 
of leadership positions within the network.
“Women of Impact” is gaining 
steam by gathering data, 
initiating conversations with 
dealer leadership, and planning 
future events, including a kickoff. 
“We’ve been trying to do this as 
organically as possible,” Lisboa 
said. “We feel dealers want to 
own this journey, not because 
John Deere says it’s important, but 
because they understand that it 
contributes to their sustainability.” 
WOMEN OF IMPACT: CULTIVATING FEMALE 
LEADERSHIP AT DEALERSHIPS IN BRAZIL
SOCIAL
43PRIORITIZING OUR PEOPLE
TALENT ATTRACTION AND RETENTION 
As our company evolves, our workforce needs and recruiting 
strategy must evolve. Competing in today’s market and 
advancing our Smart Industrial journey requires more deep 
and diverse technical expertise at all levels to drive innovation 
and solutions. We recruit at colleges and universities where 
John Deere has attracted talent for many generations, as well 
as at institutions where we have developed newer partnerships. 
This multidimensional approach ensures we are accessing the 
broadest and brightest talent.
To connect with diverse student populations, John Deere has 
been investing in diverse college and university students and 
their schools for many years. For example, to engage more 
diverse technical talent, this year we collaborated with the 
Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers by attending their 
virtual conference and socializing available career opportunities 
with John Deere. We have had great success building a pipeline 
of diverse talent from these types of programs.
Professional organizations remain a key tool in our recruiting 
process. While we have historically engaged with professional 
organizations primarily for early talent recruitment, this year 
we also focused on creating more synergies and opportunities 
to engage with professional organizations to socialize our 
mid-career opportunities. We moved to a more regionalized 
approach, versus purely engaging at large-scale conferences, to 
develop deeper relationships and opportunities to identify and 
recruit diverse talent.We are also utilizing technology and process improvements to 
further enhance our recruiting outcomes. In 2021, we partnered 
to implement two uniquely designed Recruiting Process 
Outsourcing (RPOs) models focused on quality, speed, and 
diversity. These RPOs enable us to proactively identify potential 
talent. For example, adding baselines for diverse candidate 
panels and removing some burdensome administrative 
processes allows us to have greater speed in the market and 
an articulated focus on diversity. Technology-driven solutions 
like Job Analyzer and Eightfold, both Artiﬁ  cial Intelligence 
tools, afford us the opportunity to remove gender bias in job 
descriptions and anonymize résumés when building potential 
talent proﬁ  les. 
We have intentionally built data transparency into our processes. 
Our Talent Acquisition (TA) dashboard drives accountability 
through every stage in the process — from diverse candidate 
panels to diverse interview slates, and ultimately an overarching 
focus on driving diverse talent throughout our employee 
population. Because there is visibility in the process, our TA team 
can partner with the business on the best approach to enhance 
the outcomes.
To attract and retain the best talent, we strive to offer some 
of the most competitive pay and beneﬁ  ts in our industry and 
the markets in which we operate. Beneﬁ  ts are tailored to each 
speciﬁ  c market and aim to provide resources that make sense for 
both the company and its employees. We are continually looking 
at new opportunities to enhance the beneﬁ  ts offered to our 
SOCIAL
44In the fall of 2021, following a ﬁ  ve-week 
work stoppage, Deere successfully 
negotiated a new six-year labor agreement 
with the International Union, United 
Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural 
Implement Workers of America (UAW) 
covering approximately 10,000 employees 
across several U.S. facilities. The collective 
bargaining agreement builds on Deere’s 
legacy of best-in-industry wages and 
beneﬁ  ts including proﬁ  t sharing, active 
health care, cost-of-living adjustments to 
protect wage gains, as well as a company-
funded deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t pension plan 
and deﬁ  ned contribution plan (401k) to 
enhance retirement ﬂ  exibility and security.¹The agreement represents an additional 
investment of over $3.5 billion in our 
employees. By providing ﬁ  nancial progress 
to our employees and, by extension, our 
home communities, Deere will be better 
equipped to meet the challenges of the 
future and build products that transform 
lives and livelihoods around the world.
To recognize the signiﬁ  cant performance 
and contributions of company’s global 
salaried workforce, in November 2021, 
Deere announced pay increases for 
nearly all salaried employees. In addition, 
Deere continued to embrace a future 
of work involving ﬂ  exible and remote opportunities based on the idea that 
employees can deliver value to customers 
everywhere if they are empowered to 
create value from anywhere. These 
policies will help Deere access new, 
diverse talent pools.²employees and made substantial changes to the pay and beneﬁ  ts 
of both our wage and salaried workforce in 2021.  
Additionally, after almost two years of seeing our employees 
adapt and continue to successfully deliver value through the 
dynamic environment that COVID-19 has created, we further 
embraced our ﬂ  exible work policy this year. Additional enhanced 
beneﬁ  ts offered to most of our salaried and production 
employees this year included: enhanced free counseling service 
options, improved parental leave paid time-off beneﬁ  ts for 
both new mothers and new fathers, and expanded voluntary 
beneﬁ  t offerings.
To maintain insights into the engagement and overall experience 
of our global employees throughout the course of their careers 
with John Deere, we periodically conduct conﬁ  dential employee-
experience surveys across most of the business. In these 
surveys, we emphasize employee engagement and manager 
effectiveness to ensure that we learn the extent to which 
employees feel engaged and supported in their work. Employees 
are strongly encouraged to participate, and we use results from 
the surveys to develop action plans across the enterprise. In 
2021, we conducted more limited-scope pulse surveys to measure 
employee perceptions following our Smart Industrial transition. 
Focus was placed on the areas of empowerment, accountability, 
inclusion, and engagement. Survey responses are being used to 
understand what is going well, what needs to be improved, and 
how John Deere can be an even better place to work.TALENT DEVELOPMENT
We strive to enable our employees to reach their highest 
potential by creating purpose-driven work opportunities, 
unique learning experiences, professional and personal 
development opportunities, comprehensive performance 
reviews and development plans, and mentoring opportunities.
For employees who join John Deere right out of college, 
the John Deere Development Program is a robust rotational 
program that provides early career employees with diverse 
experiences and a broad network to lay the foundation for 
their careers. New hires rotate between two or more entry-
level roles within their ﬁ  elds of study to build knowledge 
and experience. Development programs exist for engineering, 
information technology, supply management, marketing, 
analytics, accounting and ﬁ  nance, and human resources.
1While our UAW contract negotiations began during our ﬁ  scal 
year 2021, the contract was ratiﬁ  ed in November 2021, which is 
part of Deere & Company’s ﬁ  scal year 2022.
2 Changes to salaried workforce pay and beneﬁ  ts were effective 
November 1, 2021, which is part of Deere & Company’s ﬁ  scal 
year 2022. Deere & Company’s enhanced ﬂ  exible work policy 
was announced in November 2021, which is during Deere & 
Company’s ﬁ  scal year 2022.BEST-IN-INDUSTRY BENEFITS: 
INVESTING IN OUR  
EMPLOYEES’ FUTURES
SOCIAL
45John Deere uses the power of hackathons to drive innovation, 
collaboration, and empowerment. The company also believes in 
involving employees from legal, accounting, marketing, and operations 
to create an inclusive mix of all ideas. By doing so, hackathons allow 
John Deere to match problems with creative solutions.“The basic 
premise,” Josh Carson, senior staff engineer at John Deere’s ISG-
Urbandale, said, “is getting shared time for many people to open 
up doors and make something more awesome.” While that “more 
awesome” may be a new product or a new process, it’s really a culture 
that makes hackathons a success. By stressing their importance, senior 
leadership has made hackathons a valued priority in employees’ training 
and development. This focus increases participation, which has been 
aided by a virtual, global connection.
Sometimes industry-changing products are an end result. During a 
2018 hackathon, product marketing colleagues and Ray Liu, guidance 
engineer for autonomy, each set out to solve a problem involving 
inefﬁ  ciencies during harvest. Curtis Maeder, systems engineer, noticed 
that both parties were each approaching the same project from 
different angles and encouraged the forming of one team. Roughly 
six weeks later, a working prototype was moving through the ﬁ  eld. 
From there AutoPath™ software — a revolutionary technology that 
helps farmers collect data from the ﬁ  rst pass in the ﬁ  eld to establish 
row guidance for all subsequent ﬁ  eld passes — was born. Having real-
world examples to point to helps employees see the value in hackathons 
and helps to tell the John Deere story. Carson said when it comes to 
recruiting, hackathons position the company as a technology leader in the 
manufacturing world and a technology player in the innovation ﬁ  eld.HIGHLIGHT DEERE’S INCLUSION, 
RECRUITING POWER, AND INGENUITYAs employees grow throughout their careers, 
we are committed to offering experiences and 
opportunities that will challenge and reward 
them. To support these efforts internally, we 
offer functional and leadership learning tools and 
invest in targeted development for both people 
and technical leaders.
Externally, we provide employees at all levels 
opportunities to continue their formal education 
and acquire the critical skills necessary to meet 
future challenges through the Tuition Repayment 
Plan that reimburses 100 percent of the cost for 
tuition and books. Whether an employee decides 
that they will be a people leader or a technical 
leader, we provide development, training, and 
experiences.
Under the “Technical Path,” leaders develop as 
subject matter experts and contribute their technical 
and professional skills to enable John Deere to 
fulﬁ  ll our higher purpose. Through their training and 
skills, these leaders execute, support, research, and 
innovate in their areas of expertise as they develop 
and teach others. We draw on their knowledge to 
drive innovation, continuous improvement, and 
the development and execution of the John Deere 
Strategy. The John Deere Fellows Program is the 
highest level of recognition for employees who have 
contributed to the company’s success through deep 
expertise in their functional areas.
Under the “People Path,” leaders are developed 
through functional and leadership-development 
experiences, exposure, education, and 
evaluation to maximize their potential to 
achieve outstanding business results. Our Smart 
Industrial operating model leverages a Leadership 
Model that requires our leaders to demonstrate 
several key capabilities connected to our values 
and history, while guiding us into the future.
The new leadership model highlights the 
behaviors expected of John Deere leaders as 
they execute our strategy, model our culture, 
and create our future. These future-focused 
expectations were adapted for leaders and 
contributors at all levels and added to an 
enhanced Global Performance Management 
system, which will launch in 2022. Now, 
employees will have clear expectations for what 
will be delivered for our “business objectives” 
and how we will deliver them.HACKATHONS
SOCIAL
To see more of the story, visit
deere.com/en/our-company/sustainability/
sustainability-report/hackathon/
46RECRUITMENT OF MILITARY VETERANS HELPS DEALERSHIPS
Starting any new program comes with a basic set of challenges. 
Starting one at the onset of a global pandemic? Well, you’d 
better have a really good concept. Luckily for John Deere’s 
Military Career Skills Program, that’s exactly what they had.
The U.S.-based program has one goal — connect military 
veterans with technician jobs at John Deere’s network of 
independent dealers. David Bostic, the company’s service 
development manager, said there are two ways to make that 
happen — either through direct hiring based on his recruiting 
efforts at military career fairs or through the Department of 
Defense’s SkillBridge internship program.
As a Deere employee, Bostic networks between military 
personnel and John Deere dealerships. In 2021, John Deere 
independent dealerships hired 119 military veterans into 
technician jobs who have come through the Military Career Skills 
Program, helping lessen the stress many dealers experience in 
ﬁ  lling the much-needed roles. Of the 119 , 81 were direct hires 
and 38 started as interns and then were hired full-time by the 
dealership. Ninety-three percent of all interns brought into the 
program get a job offer from their dealers and the retention rate 
of the interns is about 86 percent.With nearly 3,000 John Deere dealer locations in the U.S., Bostic 
said there is an annual need — and company target — of training 
and developing 1,000 service technician candidates each year. 
John Deere TECH, a company-sponsored program offered at 
24 colleges throughout the U.S. and Canada, accounts for 
about 300 dealership technician job placements annually. 
Bostic said what separates Deere from other employers 
recruiting veteran service members for internships is the 
company’s job-placement assistance post-internship, immediate 
training opportunities (even available before the internship 
begins), and a 25-percent tool discount.
The training beneﬁ  t is a big hook, Bostic said.
“That beneﬁ  t kicks in the moment they contact us, and we get 
them set up in the program and in touch with dealers right away,” 
he said. “They have access to classes on our site and this helps 
them prepare for any potential interview they would have with a 
dealership. They can tell them they’ve already taken John Deere 
classes and they can show their scores. It really prepares them 
for that next step.”DEALERSHIP TALENT
John Deere dealer technicians play a critical role in keeping customers’ 
machines up and running, enabling the unmatched support that the our 
dealer network provides. These roles are in high demand, with expected 
job growth for service technicians and heavy mechanics outpacing general 
job growth. To promote interest in the service technician career path, 
John Deere partners across the globe with our dealers and numerous 
organizations to drive interest in these high-quality jobs.
Two examples of these programs are the John Deere TECH Program and the 
Military Career Skills Program in the U.S. The John Deere TECH Program is 
a two-year Associate Degree Technician Training Program that combines 
classroom, lab, and on-the-job training to provide students with the 
skill sets needed to develop into full-time John Deere technicians. Today 
there are over 20 John Deere tech locations across the U.S. and Canada 
where John Deere and dealers provide support through scholarships, paid 
internships, tools, training, and advertising, among other things.  
John Deere is passionate about ﬁ  nding a way to give back to those who 
have served our nation. The Military Career Skills Program is one of the 
ways we support service members as they transition to a civilian career. 
John Deere supports educating service members on this potential career 
path, and then helps with job placement, internships, and free training. 
This program helps service members build their résumés while gaining 
knowledge of the agriculture and construction industries.
Through these programs and others like it, John Deere and our dealers are 
playing a critical role in driving interest and job growth in this career path.
SOCIAL
47Inspired by humanity’s ability to overcome, in 2021, 
the John Deere Foundation pledged to invest at least 
$200 million over the next 10 years in three groups of 
people: smallholder and resource-constrained farmers 
around the world, families and youth in John Deere’s 
home communities, and the company’s own workforce. 
In making this pledge, the foundation strengthened 
its commitment to the United Nations’ Sustainable 
Development Goals by aligning its work with targets 
related to ending poverty, eliminating hunger, and 
ensuring quality education by 2030.
FARMERS FIRST
At the heart of John Deere’s higher purpose is our belief 
that farmers are essential to global prosperity. That is why 
the foundation has committed $50 million to smallholder and 
resource-constrained farmers throughout the world to bolster 
their ability to make a living, feed a growing global population, and reduce inequality. In 2021 alone, the foundation invested 
$3.4 million in farmers around the world, reaching 1.4 million 
total farmers.
Guided by similar values, One Acre Fund empowers farmers 
in Africa by “putting farmers ﬁ  rst.” One Acre Fund provides 
farmers with resources and support fundamental to their 
success, including the ﬁ  nancing of high-quality seeds and 
fertilizer, distribution of farm inputs, agricultural training, and 
commercialization opportunities. As a result of this work, incomes 
of One Acre Fund clients averaged 39-percent higher than control 
farmers on supported activities between 2018 and 2020. 
When One Acre Fund started its work in 2006, it piloted its 
approach with 38 farmers in Kenya. By focusing its efforts on 
making its model more effective, One Acre Fund has grown 
to directly serve over 1.4 million farm families in seven African 
countries. In 2019 , the foundation committed $5 million over 
ﬁ  ve years to One Acre Fund, making it the largest corporate 
foundation gift in the organization’s history and one of the 
largest grants in the John Deere Foundation’s history.
SOCIAL
48OUR NEIGHBORS
John Deere’s success over an almost 200-year period is 
inextricably linked to the prosperity of the families and youth 
who live, learn, and work in our home communities. That is why 
the foundation has committed $100 million to ensure inclusive 
and equitable access to resources and educational opportunities 
critical for human dignity and self-sufﬁ  ciency within these spaces.
Perhaps there was no greater aftershock from COVID-19 in our 
home communities than the dramatic increase in food insecurity, 
a particular threat to households with children, Black and 
Hispanic families, and those ﬁ  ghting against poverty. 
River Bend Food Bank, a nonproﬁ  t organization serving 23 
counties in Western Illinois and Eastern Iowa, was able to meet 
these needs by distributing over 20 million meals in 2021. In 2021, 
the foundation pledged $1.7 million to River Bend in an effort to 
end hunger in John Deere’s headquarters region. 
In total, the foundation invested $2.7 million in food-banking 
systems around the world in 2021, supporting the distribution 
of nearly 12.8 million meals. In our U.S. home communities 
alone, this investment produced almost 10.4 million meals, the 
equivalent of $32 million in economic relief (calculated using 
U.S. food sales data).
PUTTING OUR BACK INTO IT
While the company is known for its industry-leading 
products, its people help make, shape, and enrich the 
communities where they live and work. The foundation’s goal 
is to engage each employee by committing $50 million over the 
next 10 years to further mobilize their vast talents and generosity. 
In line with this commitment, almost $4.8 million 
was donated in 2021. 
For example, in 2021, more than 70 Waterloo Works production 
and maintenance employees volunteered to build the walls for 
six homes in Iowa Heartland Habitat for Humanity communities. 
In total, they built over 200 walls inside the John Deere facility. 
Once the walls were complete, they were set and sided by more 
John Deere employees at multiple home-construction sites.
In 2021, John Deere employees recorded over 124,000 volunteer 
hours. 111,000 of these hours were logged in the U.S., where 
the latest estimated value of each volunteer hour is $28.54. This 
means John Deere employees created over $3 million of additional 
value in their service of others.
SOCIAL
49Invested in Farmers
1.4 million total farmers
were reached
Volunteer Hours
111,000 of these hours were logged in the U.S., where the latest 
estimated value of volunteer time in the U.S. is $28.54 per hour. 
This means John Deere employees created over $3 million of 
additional value within U.S.-based communities.$3.4M
124,000Invested in Food-
Banking Systems 
This served 12.8 million meals 
in 2021, which equates to over 
$32 million in economic relief 
to those most vulnerable in our 
home communities (calculated 
using U.S. food sales data).$2.7M$42.5MHOW ARE WE ADVANCING LIVES AND LIVELIHOODS?
SOCIAL
50At John Deere, the health and safety of 
employees is our number-one priority, and our 
goal is to achieve safety excellence through 
increased focus on health- and safety-
management systems, leading indicators, risk 
reduction, and prevention. 
Our safety-balanced scorecard includes leading 
and lagging indicators and is designed to drive 
continuous improvement. All in-scope units are 
utilizing the scorecard and greater than 
75 percent are achieving their targeted levels 
of performance.
Today, reducing ergonomic risk is our largest 
opportunity to prevent injuries in the 
workplace. We are committed to reducing 
these injuries by further integrating ergonomic 
principles and practices into our product 
design and manufacturing processes. 
In 2021, we established standard ergonomics 
program requirements and performed 
self-assessments at all manufacturing 
units1 and large parts distribution centers. 
We integrated a “Prevention Through 
Design” initiative during two new product 
introductions. The goal of the initiative was 
to identify and mitigate safety and ergonomic 
risks during the design of the product and 
associated manufacturing processes. Finally, we have continued a sharp focus on 
preventing potentially serious incidents (PSIs). 
These events require a full investigation, 
standardized reporting, and sharing across 
the enterprise. PSIs associated with material 
movement are a priority. Several units across 
the enterprise have been deploying best-in-
class technology solutions to reduce the risks 
associated with pedestrian and fork-truck 
interaction. 
Our commitment to the health, safety, 
and well-being of our employees goes 
beyond the workplace. We are mindful 
of the overall well-being of employees at 
home and in our communities. We provide 
targeted programs in the areas of financial, 
physical, emotional, and social well-being 
to our employees and their families. 
To demonstrate our continued commitment 
to our employees’ health and safety, we 
have challenged ourselves again as part 
of our new Leap Ambitions. Starting with 
2021 as our baseline, we are committed to 
achieving a 20-percent reduction in our 
Total Recordable Incident Rate by 2026.
Continuous Improvement Keeps Employees Safe and Grounded
John Deere Des Moines Works production employees on the factory’s cotton picker assembly line 
utilized the company’s Continuous Improvement process to redesign how ﬁ  ve assemblers addressed 
working at various heights to install trash ducts, water lines, and fuel and water tanks. By creating 
an innovative cab-platform work center, the assembly processes were lowered by telescoping lifting 
columns, allowing workers to remain on the ground.WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY
1 Excluding recent acquisitions.
SOCIAL
To see more of the story, visit
deere.com/en/our-company/sustainability/
sustainability-report/continuous-improvement/
51Quality is a core value for John Deere. Our success with our 
Distinctive Product Quality initiatives has ensured that our 
customers’ uptime needs are met to keep them running. Product 
quality at John Deere has four primary focus areas:
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT QUALITY
During product development, John Deere’s quality processes 
include signiﬁ  cant reliability and durability testing, validation 
of new parts and procedures, and tracking to ensure products 
are ready for our customers at launch. Cross-functional teams, 
including both internal disciplines and critical suppliers, track 
results, adjust as needed, and manage programs to make sure 
customer expectations are met throughout the product lifecycle.
MANUFACTURED QUALITY
Quality processes, audit checks, and automated controls are built 
into each station of operation. Teams also validate and audit the 
ﬁ  nal product using a customer-focused machine runoff, ﬁ  nal 
set of inspections, and smart testing tools that allow them to 
proactively ﬁ  nd and address any issues prior to product shipment.
PROBLEM RESOLUTION
When problems or issues are identiﬁ  ed, we follow a rigorous 
problem-resolution process. This ensures we address issues 
quickly and completely by ﬁ  nding the root cause, validating 
solutions, and resolving problems with preventive actions. 
Leveraging virtual validation and lab analysis tools helps us 
quickly ﬁ  nd a solution and make improvements. Access to data 
and information about connected machine performance and 
from our production facilities helps us more rapidly identify 
and resolve customer problems.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
Leveraging customer insights and experiences helps us deliver 
Distinctive Quality by targeting quality levels for each product 
that are unique in the industry. We closely track performance of 
all products in relation to quality goals. We regularly follow up 
with our customers to ensure our products meet their speciﬁ  c 
requirements. Customer feedback drives modiﬁ  cations to our 
processes and product improvement, for example, improving 
longer-term reliability and durability well after the manufacturer’s 
warranty has expired.
John Deere has invested over $35 million in quality worldwide 
by improving our existing dimensional measurement resources 
through laboratory renovations and state-of-the-art equipment 
updates. As our product size, complexity, and precision increase, 
the demand on our measurement tools used to ensure product 
quality varies greatly and continues to rise. These updates are 
in support of product quality, the Smart Industrial operating 
model, and the safeguarding of our customers.PRODUCT QUALITY
SOCIAL
52Our Corporate Product Safety Department works with 
factory safety committees, especially during product 
technology development, and provides coordination 
and consistent processes for multiple-factory product-
development projects. Product safety and standards 
engineers keep abreast of, and lead advancements in, 
product safety by participating in standards development 
and trade organizations.
During all product design, we adhere to our General Rule 
for Product Safety. This rule requires that an acceptable 
design must not present an unreasonable risk of injury to 
a product user or others nearby. In applying this rule, we 
consider the people, environmental conditions, and other 
products with which a product is likely to be involved.
Beyond our General Rule for Product Safety, we rely 
heavily on applicable safety standards as published by the 
International Standards Organization (ISO), the American 
National Standards Institute (ANSI), the American Society 
of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE), the 
European Committee for Standardization (CEN), and other 
organizations. Our goal is to meet or surpass the intent of 
these standards.
As part of our design process, we ensure safety 
information appears in pre-delivery instructions, operator’s 
manuals, technical manuals, and other service publications 
according to the activities to which they apply. In addition, 
safety instructions in the form of safety signs are afﬁ  xed 
to the product to appropriately warn an operator of 
potential hazards.
We also provide training resources such as videos, 
posters, brochures, and guides. We support child-safety 
organizations, such as Progressive Ag Safety Day, and 
we encourage our dealers to promote safety in their 
communities.
We have a robust incident-reporting system that collects 
incident information involving John Deere equipment from 
numerous sources, including our dealers, the customer 
call center, and public information. All incident reports are 
forwarded to the Corporate Product Safety Department 
and entered into a central repository. A formal report of 
the incident is sent to the factory and marketing groups 
responsible for the product, where it is reviewed by the 
factory product safety committee.
We have developed and use product-repair and -recall 
processes, which include speciﬁ  c activities and procedures 
for product-recall reporting and notiﬁ  cation. All consumer 
product recalls are posted on the John Deere website and 
the website of the appropriate governmental agency.PRODUCT SAFETY
Function and safety are key priorities for John Deere, 
especially when designing equipment. One recent example 
involves the John Deere AB485 Air Boom Dry Fertilizer 
Spreader, which is factory installed on Deere’s F4365 
large-scale nutrient-applicator system. 
The AB485 has hoppers — or bins — on top of the machine 
that are ﬁ  lled with dry fertilizer for application in the ﬁ  eld. 
To ﬁ  ll the bins and clean the machine, customers needed a 
safe-access mechanism that did not require climbing over 
a tarp structure that protects against water intrusion. 
In a true tale of safety meeting function, two design 
challenges were solved with one clever component: 
folding handrails.
The ingenious system serves a dual purpose. First, it folds 
up to provide handrails for the customer when they are 
accessing the top of the machine. And, when folded down, 
it creates the structure for the tarp to wrap over.
The cross-functional team’s solution was the ﬁ  rst in 
the industry and reinforces John Deere’s leadership in 
product safety.
The key innovation is the ability to combine a safety feature 
with a functional one. By using a keen eye, designers were 
able to accommodate both the spacing needs on the tarp 
system with the requirements for handholds.
In the end it serves as an example, and reminder, that 
customers don’t have to give up convenience for safety.Folding Handrails Serve Two Purposes 
in One Idea
SOCIAL
53GOVERNANCEGOVERNANCE
From left to right, top to bottom: Dipak C. Jain, Clayton M. Jones, T ami A. Erwin, Gregory R. Page, 
Leanne G. Caret, Alan C. Heuberger, Sherry M. Smith, Dmitri L. Stockton, Charles O. Holliday Jr., 
John C. May, Sheila G. T alton, and Michael O. Johanns.At John Deere, we believe strong corporate governance 
— starting with our Board of Directors — enhances 
our business. With our Board’s oversight, we conduct 
business openly, honestly, and fairly. We measure our 
accomplishments by how we achieve them as well as by 
the results themselves. More than this, we know that 
our results will be greater and more long-lasting when 
we achieve them the right way. In short, we believe 
that strong corporate governance creates long-term 
shareholder value.
John Deere currently has a board of 12 directors.1 
Directors are nominated based on their skills, experiences, 
backgrounds and the needs of the Board and our 
company. Every Director must stand for election annually.
At all times, a majority of the Board of Directors must 
meet the criteria for independence established by 
applicable laws and regulations and the New Y ork Stock Exchange. At the end of calendar year 2021, all of our 
Directors, except our Chairman, were independent. 
Directors are recruited to strengthen the Board’s diversity 
and ensure that the Board reﬂ  ects and understands 
the diverse perspectives of John Deere’s stakeholders 
around the globe. Four of our 11 independent Directors 
are female and three are people of color.
Our Presiding Director is elected by a majority of 
the independent Directors. Among other duties and 
responsibilities, the Presiding Director presides at all 
meetings of the Board at which the Chairman is not 
present and, jointly with the Chairman, approves the 
schedule of Board meetings, the proposed agendas, 
and the materials to be sent to the Board. The 
Presiding Director can also call meetings of the 
independent Directors and is available for direct 
communication with shareholders.CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
1As of November 1, 2021, the ﬁ  rst day of Deere’s ﬁ  scal year 2022, Leanne G. Caret was elected to the Deere & Company Board of Directors. This temporarily raises 
the number of Deere’s Directors to 12. Dipak C. Jain is not standing for re-election at the Deere & Company 2022 Annual Shareholder Meeting on February 23, 2022. 
Therefore, it is anticipated that the number of Directors will return to 11 following the 2022 Annual Shareholder Meeting. All metrics in this report are calculated 
on the basis of the 12-member Board of Directors reﬂ  ected here.
55The Deere & Company Board of Directors has oversight of sustainability and is responsible for 
aligning our strategic priorities as well as ensuring Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) 
principles are integrated throughout the enterprise. The Corporate Governance Committee 
reviews ESG topics on a quarterly basis. During 2021, the committee was briefed on our 
strategic sustainability initiatives, goal-setting process, performance on metrics and targets, 
sustainability reporting roadmap, feedback from stakeholder engagement, and the landscape 
of shifting ESG expectations and practices. The committee also received educational updates 
from external experts on evolving trends and best practices in ESG reporting. Through regular 
engagement, the committee guides and directs our strategic ESG planning, ESG goal setting, 
and scope of our sustainability reporting. 
The compensation committee is responsible for ensuring that compensation is aligned with 
the strategic priorities, performance, and opportunities of the company. Throughout 2021, the 
committee was involved in understanding our progress toward setting the Leap Ambitions and 
the priorities that will move our business forward over the next decade.   
In addition, the full Board of Directors has oversight of the risks and opportunities associated 
with climate change. Updates are provided in alignment with our Enterprise Risk Management 
process. Additional detail regarding their role and our governance of climate change can be 
found in our Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report. 
To enable and execute on these initiatives, a variety of teams and policies are in place to ensure 
the full organization is aligned to deliver on our ESG priorities. With the Smart Industrial 
operating model now in place, sustainability is further driven throughout the organization 
and has altered some of our internal structure around delivery of ESG.SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE
56reviewing progress and challenges, and driving execution 
of initiatives to meet the goals. 
CLIMATE TEAM 
During 2021, we established a Climate Team within the 
organization, which is comprised of a cross-functional 
team whose roles are responsible for action related to 
the various risks and opportunities that we have identiﬁ  ed 
for our business related to climate change. This team 
monitors developments, quantiﬁ  es risk and opportunities, 
develops action plans, and engages throughout the 
organization to ensure alignment and assess performance 
toward our goals and targets. Members of this team 
engaged in a variety of projects this year, including 
quantifying our Scope 3 GHG emissions, setting science-
based targets, executing a Carbon Market Pilot program 
with customers, and external engagement on policy and 
industry trends.
SUBJECT MATTER EXPERTS 
Our broad team of Subject Matter Experts are the 
individuals who are critical to execution of our 
priorities. Working with their teams, they develop the 
implementation plans for achieving our sustainability 
initiatives. They continually monitor and engage these 
teams to ensure we are delivering on those action plans. 
They also serve a key role in keeping the rest of the 
organization informed on progress and roadblocks as 
they track and report metrics on a regular basis. These 
individuals have deep technical knowledge in their 
respective areas of expertise and serve as the go-to 
within the organization for their area.CEO STAFF 
John Deere’s CEO Staff provides direction for and ultimately 
owns the execution of our sustainability initiatives. 
Oversight and ownership at this level ensures that our 
sustainability initiatives are aligned with and a core 
component of our overall business strategy. CEO Staff 
receives updates from the sustainability teams throughout 
the year. During 2021, these updates encompassed the 
following topics: Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions 
quantiﬁ  cation and Science Based Targets initiative-based 
goals; goal-setting priorities; performance on 2022 targets 
and metrics; status updates on projects and initiatives 
enabling our ESG priorities; sustainability reporting trends 
and multiyear roadmap; and stakeholder feedback.
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP TEAM 
The Sustainability Leadership Team is comprised of 
a group of leaders from our Environmental, Health & 
Safety, Production Systems, Technology, and Finance 
organizations. This team engages closely with the 
teams working on setting strategic ESG priorities, 
driving toward delivery of our sustainability goals, and 
determining the roadmap for effective reporting. The 
group also works to engage with other leaders across 
the company to ensure alignment of our strategic ESG 
priorities with our business objectives, technology 
roadmap, and ﬁ  nancial performance.
GOAL CHAMPIONS 
Each of our sustainability-related goals has a Goal 
Champion. Each Goal Champion has ownership of 
the delivery of that goal and is responsible for aligning 
priorities and resources throughout the organization, 
GOVERNANCE
57PRIVACYCYBERSECURITY AND DATA  
At John Deere, we have seen a dramatic increase in the amount of data that is 
produced, collected, and analyzed. Properly managing and processing this data allows 
us to better run our enterprise, provide enhanced customer support, and offer better, 
more productive products and services for our customers.
Because of the importance of cybersecurity and data privacy, the Corporate Governance 
Committee and Audit Review Committee provide Board oversight. To ensure strong 
execution and engagement with the Board, we have established a Digital Risk 
Governance Council and an Executive Business Conduct Council, which provide senior 
leadership oversight of information security governance, data governance, digital risk 
management, and privacy.
We leverage the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity 
Framework as the foundational building block of our global information security 
program. Our program focuses on assuring operational resilience and protecting the 
information that has been entrusted to us by our customers, employees, dealers, and 
suppliers, as well as the data created by the enterprise. Learn more about our Digital 
Security program here.
Our data privacy program is constantly monitoring, adapting to, and working diligently 
to comply with changes in global privacy legislation. While the European General Data 
Protection Regulation and other regional and state regulations have brought increased 
requirements and more general awareness to privacy, we have long been focused on 
ensuring responsible use of personal data.
John Deere maintains its European Binding Corporate Rules, which are often considered 
the gold standard in the European Union for the transfer and processing of personal 
data. To accomplish this, we routinely submit signiﬁ  cant parts of our privacy program 
for review by European regulators.
We continue to provide a safe and secure environment for our customers to collaborate 
with their trusted advisers. With over 260 companies on our Application Programming 
Interface (API) platform at the end of ﬁ  scal year 2021, customers choose who they share 
data with, which they can easily check at the John Deere Operations Center.
GOVERNANCE
58New Supplier Award Keeps Attention on Sustainability
In launching its Supplier Sustainability Award program, John Deere has put additional emphasis 
on the topic of environment as well as the overall lives and livelihoods of our customers and 
dealer network. The program raises supplier awareness of the importance of sustainability.
In late 2021, the company invited all global suppliers to participate and tell their success 
stories as deﬁ  ned by three categories: People and Environment Impact, Business Impact, and 
Customer Impact. The categories cover topics ranging from social responsibility, environmental 
stewardship, regulatory and risk reduction, and value improvement for our customers.
The awards program will honor submissions from each of John Deere’s four global business 
regions in early 2022. The annual award looks to drive innovation that improves the overall 
sustainability of our value chain, recognize suppliers who have delivered meaningful impact, 
and ultimately enable solutions that are better for our customers.John Deere relies on global suppliers to help keep our customers up and 
running. Speciﬁ  cally, we have committed to growing our diverse supply 
base. In 2021, we expanded our supply base of small woman-owned 
businesses by 175 percent to nearly $4 million while also expanding small 
disadvantaged (minority-owned) suppliers by over 200 percent to over 
$14 million in spend. Looking ahead, our Supplier Diversity Program aspires 
to source $1.5 billion with diverse businesses by 2025.
As we continue to develop our supply base, our suppliers are expected 
to follow our Supplier Code of Conduct, which ensures our suppliers 
conduct business with integrity and in a socially and environmentally 
responsible manner. For additional information regarding critical 
materials and how we manage the risks associated with those materials, 
please refer to the SASB Index.
In addition to managing the diversity of the supply base, the company is 
continually assessing and working to improve our suppliers’ performance. 
This includes anything from compliance to ﬁ  nancial health. A corrective-
action process provides our suppliers opportunities to continually improve. 
In 2021, we continued to engage EcoVadis, a recognized global leader in 
corporate social responsibility and sustainability ratings, to assess the 
sustainability performance of key suppliers. Over 900 logistics, direct 
material, and indirect material and services suppliers have been asked 
to complete the sustainability assessment. Plans are to reach over 1,000 
suppliers by the end of ﬁ  scal year 2022, which will encompass over 60 
percent of our total material spend.
John Deere’s Achieving Excellence program acknowledges suppliers whose 
quality, delivery, cost management, wavelength, and technical support 
surpass expectations. The Achieving Excellence program also incorporates 
sustainability initiatives.SUPPLY CHAIN 
MANAGEMENT
GOVERNANCE
59The Center for Global Business Conduct provides 
continuous training, communications, and best practices 
throughout John Deere’s operations to sustain our strong 
ethical culture and ensure compliance with laws and 
regulations. Our Code of Business Conduct was refreshed 
in 2021, with a focus on providing simple, easy-to-use 
guidance on employee expectations in an engaging and 
useful format reﬂ  ecting our full global enterprise. The 
Code provides direct access to our global policies and 
offers guidance on complex and sometimes ambiguous 
business and cultural situations. 
In parallel with the Code refresh, we refreshed several of 
our global ethics and compliance policies which further 
outline expectations for employee behavior. We paid 
particular attention to enhancing our policy related 
to harassment and discrimination, along with a set of 
trainings on how we treat each other and work together, 
and a series of communications providing guidance on 
navigating the hybrid work environment. We continued 
to invest time and resources on our anti-bribery and anti-
corruption program, including communication, training, 
and process enhancements. 
Ethics and compliance training is required for full-time 
salaried employees at least four times per year, and new 
salaried employees must complete a core curriculum of 
training courses. Training topics focus on key compliance 
risks and expectations for employees.
 
Outreach to employees is a critical element of our 
compliance program, especially for compliance team 
members embedded in key geographies. We make a concerted effort to connect with employees around the 
world through our compliance networks and Employee 
Resource Groups.
Our ethical culture is a source of pride among our workforce. 
We measure our culture using questions embedded in 
our Employee Experience Survey, new hire surveys, and 
exit surveys. Ethics-related survey items consistently rank 
among our top-scoring items around the globe. 
Strong governance starts with our Board of Directors and 
is built upon robust processes and rigorous audits. We rely 
on our employees and other stakeholders freely reporting 
concerns of actual or potential misconduct or other risks. 
To encourage such reporting, we refreshed our reporting 
and non-retaliation policies to more clearly express how and 
when employees should report concerns and reiterate the 
company’s commitment to non-retaliation. The John Deere 
Compliance Hotline is operated by an independent company 
and is available to receive conﬁ  dential reports from anyone 
within or outside the company. To access country-speciﬁ  c 
Hotline information, employees can view the posters on 
display at each company location or visit the John Deere 
intranet. The John Deere Compliance Hotline website is 
listed in the Code of Business Conduct and the Supplier 
Code of Conduct.
We address all Hotline reports thoroughly and promptly. 
John Deere will not tolerate retaliation against any 
individual for making a report or participating in 
an interview or investigation. This is true even if an 
investigation does not uncover any actual misconduct.Operating with the highest business ethics requires vigilance. 
The John Deere Center for Global Business Conduct helps ensure 
consistent compliance with increasingly complex global laws 
and regulations in a dynamic global business environment.
GOVERNANCE
60At John Deere, we honor human rights and respect 
the individual dignity of all people globally. Our 
commitment to human rights requires that we 
understand and carry out our responsibilities 
consistent with company values and practices.
We strive to ensure that human rights are upheld 
for our employees and all workers in our supply 
chain. Our commitment to respecting human 
rights is deﬁ  ned in our Code of Business Conduct, 
Supplier Code of Conduct, Dealer Code of Conduct, 
and John Deere’s Support of Human Rights in Our 
Business Practices, which establish clear guidelines 
for our employees and suppliers, while helping to 
inform our business decisions.
John Deere employees have a responsibility to 
uphold the standards of honor and integrity in 
the Code of Business Conduct. All employees are 
required to review the code and incorporate it into 
their work and behavior. To foster a more positive 
workplace, the code provides guidance on creating 
an inclusive environment that promotes mutual 
respect and acceptance. It also discusses how to maintain a high level of integrity when working 
with customers and suppliers.
When choosing suppliers, we engage with those 
who comply with laws and uphold values aligned 
with our own. Our employees regularly discuss the 
Supplier Code of Conduct with suppliers, and most 
supplier contracts require adherence to the Supplier 
Code of Conduct. This code addresses the following 
key areas: labor and human rights, health and safety, 
environment, and ethics.
As the face of the John Deere brand to our customers, 
our dealers, distributors, and their sub-dealers 
(collectively, dealers) must be committed to 
conducting business ethically and in compliance 
with all applicable laws. To ensure that dealers 
conduct business with a high degree of integrity 
and in a socially and environmentally responsible 
manner, John Deere asks and expects all dealers to 
adhere to the Dealer Code of Conduct. Like the other 
codes, the Dealer Code of Conduct covers many topics 
ranging from labor, human rights, health and safety, 
environment, and ethics.HUMAN RIGHTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICIES 
These policies establish the guiding principles for John Deere corporate 
governance, including Board composition and functions, meetings, 
committees, compensation, and management evaluation and succession 
planning. 
CODE OF ETHICS 
This code establishes ethical standards applicable to Directors, 
employees, and ofﬁ  cers in satisfaction of applicable laws and regulations 
and the New Y ork Stock Exchange. 
CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT 
This code provides speciﬁ  c guidance to all employees and outlines how 
we can and must uphold and strengthen the standards of honor and 
integrity that have deﬁ  ned our company since our founding.
DEALER CODE OF CONDUCT 
This code requires that dealers conduct business with a high degree of 
integrity and in a socially and environmentally responsible manner.ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, AND SAFETY POLICY 
With a focus on continuous improvement, this policy provides that 
we conduct our business in a manner that protects our customers, 
employees, communities, suppliers, and the environment. 
GLOBAL CONFLICT MINERALS POLICY   
This policy sets forth our commitment to conducting worldwide business 
operations in a manner that complies with applicable laws and regulations 
regarding conﬂ  ict minerals. 
SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT 
This code requires that all our suppliers conduct business with a high 
degree of integrity and in a socially and environmentally responsible 
manner. 
SUPPORT OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES 
This guidance outlines how John Deere strives to ensure that human 
rights are upheld for our employees and all workers in our supply chain.JOHN DEERE 
POLICIES
Because we believe corporate governance is integral 
to creating long-term shareholder value, our Board 
of Directors has adopted company-wide corporate 
governance policies that are periodically reviewed and 
revised to ensure that they reﬂ  ect the Board’s corporate 
governance objectives. These policies, along with 
the John Deere Code of Business Conduct and other 
work-speciﬁ  c policies, establish the framework by which 
we conduct ourselves and our global business in full 
compliance with the law and by which we afﬁ  rm our 
commitment to integrity in everything we do. 
GOVERNANCE
61At John Deere, we believe that participating in democratic 
political processes around the world and advocating for public 
policies that permit us to compete fairly and freely in the 
marketplace are vitally important to all our stakeholders. 
In whatever form it might take, our engagement in the political 
process is grounded in and guided by our ﬁ  rm commitment to 
strong corporate governance and global corporate citizenship.
John Deere engages in public policy advocacy around the 
world to underscore the responsibility of a global business to 
participate in our communities. We engage in public policies 
such as trade, agricultural development, and regulations 
related to the impact of how John Deere operates around 
the world. We promote policies such as rural broadband, 
rapid adoption of precision technologies, mechanization, 
infrastructure, and tax and ﬁ  nancing access that impacts 
our customers. As a part of these efforts, we engage with 
like-minded companies, NGOs, and associations as well as 
participate in public-private partnerships to reach global 
audiences and policy makers.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
In compliance with U.S. federal and state election laws, 
John Deere administers the John Deere Political Action 
Committee (JDPAC), a voluntary, non-partisan initiative 
comprised of U.S. employees. JDPAC members voluntarily 
pool their personal ﬁ  nancial contributions to support select 
federal and state ofﬁ  ce candidates who understand and 
support the business interests of our company, customers, 
employees, and stakeholders. Under federal law and company 
policy, participation in JDPAC is limited to eligible, salaried 
U.S. employees.
Except for administrative expenses, JDPAC is funded solely by 
the voluntary contributions of John Deere employees and is 
not supported by funds from John Deere itself. The company 
does not reimburse employees directly or indirectly for political 
contributions, including contributions to JDPAC.
Oversight of JDPAC’s contributions and related activities are 
governed by its board of directors, comprised of 13 John Deere 
employees from throughout our various business units. JDPAC 
does not engage in legislative matters or lobbying activity. 
Further, JDPAC does not seek to inﬂ  uence any particular vote 
through contributions.JDPAC fully discloses all contributions made and received 
through reports ﬁ  led with the Federal Election Commission 
and various state ethics commissions, as required by law. 
For transparency, John Deere posts an annual report on our 
website summarizing JDPAC contributions made in the most 
recent calendar year or election cycle, categorized by state, 
candidate, and amount. To view the annual report for the 
2019–2020 election cycle, please click here.
John Deere complies with federal, state, and local campaign 
ﬁ  nance laws and regulations governing political contributions 
and the disclosure of these contributions. Consistent with U.S. 
federal law, John Deere does not contribute corporate funds 
to federal candidates, national political party committees, or 
other federal political committees. For example, even when 
permitted by applicable law in connection with certain state 
and local elections, we do not use corporate assets to support 
or oppose any candidate for political ofﬁ  ce or ballot measure. 
The company does, however, reserve the right to make 
exceptions to this practice so long as any contribution we 
make is consistent with our public policy agenda, in accordance 
with our Code of Business Conduct, and previously approved 
by our Chairman & CEO and Senior Vice President, General 
Counsel and Public Affairs.
John Deere does not pay for any independent expenditures 
or electioneering communications, as those terms are deﬁ  ned 
by applicable law. Moreover, John Deere did not make any 
political expenditures out of corporate assets in the 2020 
or 2021 calendar years. In the interest of transparency for our 
shareholders and other stakeholders, we publicly disclose and 
annually update our corporate contributions to associations 
for advocacy purposes. John Deere belongs to several trade and 
industry associations and pays regular dues to these groups. We 
participate in trade associations in part to join other like-minded 
companies in engaging in public education and advocacy efforts 
regarding major issues of common concern to our industries.
Our participation in trade associations is subject to 
management approval and oversight. We publicly disclose 
and annually update a list of those U.S. trade associations 
to which John Deere pays dues or makes other contributions 
of $50,000 or more, as well as the portions of such dues or 
payments that are not deductible under Section 162(e)(1) of the 
Internal Revenue Code. To view the 2021 report for U.S. trade 
association memberships and expenditures, please click here.POLITICAL
ENGAGEMENT
GOVERNANCE
62REPORTING SCOPE AND ISSUANCE 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this report that relate 
to future events, expectations, and trends involve factors 
that are subject to change, and risks and uncertainties that 
could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and 
uncertainties are difﬁ  cult to predict and often are outside of 
the control of the company.
When used in this report, the words “may,” “could,” 
“anticipate,” “target,” “plan,” “continue,” “goal,” “commit,” 
“achieve,” “project,” “intend,” “estimate,” “believe,” 
“expect,” and similar expressions are intended to identify 
forward-looking statements, although not all forward-
looking statements contain such words. Forward-looking 
statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results to differ materially from 
our historical experience and our present expectations or 
anticipated results. Forward-looking statements are neither 
historical facts nor assurances of future performance. 
Instead, they are based only on the company’s current 
beliefs, expectations, and assumptions regarding the 
future of its business, strategic objectives, projections, 
anticipated economic changes and trends, and other 
conditions. Forward-looking statements in this report 
may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding 
the company’s operational strategies; equipment designs 
that optimize performance outcomes for customers; 
efforts regarding energy, water, and emissions; and the 
development of mechanisms for tracking sustainability 
metrics. Important factors that could cause the company’s 
actual results to differ materially from those indicated in 
the forward-looking statements include, among others, 
the following: (i) compliance with and changes to global 
and regional environmental, health, safety, and human 
rights laws, including emissions and noise regulations, and 
other ethical business practices; (ii) compliance with and 
changes to greenhouse gas emissions and other standards 
related to climate change; (iii) production, design, and 
technological innovations and difﬁ  culties, including 
capacity and supply constraints and prices; (iv) availability 
and price of raw materials, components, and whole goods; 
(v) attracting, developing, engaging, and retaining qualiﬁ  ed 
employees; (vi) weather conditions and natural calamities; (vii) availability of enabling technologies, including GPS and 
radio-frequency spectrums; (viii) network security breaches 
and disruptions; (ix) compliance with privacy and data-
protection laws and regulations; (x) global and regional trade 
laws, regulations, and policies; (xi) governmental banking, 
monetary, and ﬁ  scal policies; (xii) global tax laws; (xiii) demand 
for food and bioenergy impacting farm commodity pricing 
and demand for the company’s products; (xiv) global political, 
economic, and social events and uncertainty; (xv) competitors’ 
actions and competitive pressures; (xvi) adapting products to 
customer preferences around the world; (xvii) infringement of 
the company’s intellectual property; (xviii) economic conditions 
weakening demand and/or limiting access to funding and 
higher funding costs; (xix) ability to realize the anticipated 
beneﬁ  ts of our business strategies including acquisitions, joint 
ventures, divestitures, or new product or efﬁ  ciency initiatives; 
and (xx) impact of the COVID-19 and other pandemics on the 
company’s operations and strategies. The company, except as 
required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or revise 
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new 
developments or otherwise. 
The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date 
of this report and undue reliance should not be placed on 
these statements. Goals are aspirational and not guarantees 
or promises that all goals will be met. Statistics and metrics 
relating to ESG matters are estimates and may be based 
on assumptions or developing standards. This report may 
contain links and references to other Internet sites. Such 
links or references are not endorsements of any products 
or services in such sites, and no information in such site has 
been endorsed or approved by the company. The inclusion 
of information in this report should not be construed as 
a characterization regarding the materiality or ﬁ  nancial 
impact of that information. Further information concerning 
the company and its businesses, including factors that could 
materially affect the company’s ﬁ  nancial results, is included 
in the company’s ﬁ  lings with the SEC (including, but not 
limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors 
of the company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K, 
and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q).Except where speciﬁ  cally noted otherwise, the reporting period of the John Deere 2021 Sustainability Report covers subject 
matter and data for Deere & Company’s ﬁ  scal year 2021 (November 2020–October 2021) and is limited to the operations owned 
and/or operated by Deere & Company. References to John Deere, our, we, or the Company mean Deere & Company and its 
subsidiaries, unless the content indicates otherwise. The John Deere Leap Ambitions, referenced throughout this report, 
were launched on February 18, 2022. This report was published on February 18, 2022.
GOVERNANCE
63DATA TABLE Unless otherwise noted, all metrics are determined on a ﬁ  scal year 2021 basis.
1Apex Companies, LLC has veriﬁ  ed greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data in accordance with the ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases — Part 3: Speciﬁ  cation with guidance for the validation and veriﬁ  cation of greenhouse gas statements assurance standard and water and waste data in accordance with the ISAE 
3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information assurance standard.
2Data associated with the operation of Unimil is not included in the reported metrics.
3Data associated with the operation of Unimil is not included in the reported 2021 metrics. Data associated with the operation of Unimil, PLA Holding Netherlands B. V ., Mazzotti S.r.l. and King Agro Europa, S.L., and their related subsidiaries, and the Wirtgen Group entities are not included in the reported 
2020 and 2019 metrics.
4Manufacturing correlates to deﬁ  nition in our Form 10-K, Wirtgen Group entities are not included in the reported 2020 metrics.
6Rate is per 100 employees. Data associated with the operation of Unimil is not included in the reported 2021 metrics. Data associated with the operation of Unimil, PLA Holding Netherlands B. V . and King Agro Europa, S.L., and their related subsidiaries, Mazzotti S.r.l. and the Wirtgen Group entities are not 
included in the reported 2020 and 2019 metrics.
7Rate is per 100 employees. Data associated with the operation of Unimil and the Wirtgen Group entities is not included in the reported 2021 metrics. Data associated with the operation of Unimil, PLA Holding Netherlands B. V . and King Agro Europa, S.L., and their related subsidiaries, Mazzotti S.r.l., and the 
Wirtgen Group entities are not included in the reported 2020 and 2019 metrics.
8Manufacturing correlates to deﬁ  nition in our Form 10-K, Wirtgen Group entities are not included in the reported 2020 metrics. ENVIRONMENTAL 2021 2020 2019
Energy Consumption (GJ)1,212,890,000  11,806,000  12,927 ,000
% Renewable Electricity1,240.5% 29.2 % 23.8%
Scope 1 Emissions (metric tons CO 2e)1,2403,300 343,500 388,500
Scope 2 (market-based) Emissions (metric tons CO 2e)1,2407,700 497,000 588,700
Scope 3 Emission (metric tons CO 2e) 112,453,000 — —
      Category 1 7 ,336,000 — —
      Category 11 105,117 ,000 — —
Water Consumption (megaliters)323,900 20,246 23,000
% of Waste Recycled383% 78% 78%
Total Waste (metric tons)31 1 7, 20 0 88,222 108,647
Hazardous Waste (metric tons)311,600 7 ,999 13,360
Non-Hazardous Waste (metric tons)3105,600 — —
# of ISO14001 Manufacturing Sites Certiﬁ  ed435 13 —
 SOCIAL 2021 2020 2019
Number of Employees 75,600 69,600 73,500
% of Part-Time and Student Employees 1.9% 1.4% —
% of Women in Revenue-Generating Positions 17 .3% — —
% of Women in STEM-Related Positions 1 7.6 % — —
Global Production Employees Covered by Collective Agreements 91.7% — —
Turnover Rate — Overall 7.0 % 5.0% 4.7%
      Turnover Rate — Production 8.6% 4.2% 6.2%
      Turnover Rate — Salaried 5.4% 5.8% 3.3%
Training Hours per FTE 1 9.5 1 9.8 —
Total Recordable Incident Rate61.98 1.32 1.65
Lost Time Frequency Rate60.78 0.32 0.33
Near Miss Frequency Rates711.96 15.03 —
Fatality Rated60.001 0.001 —
# of ISO9001 Manufacturing Sites Certiﬁ  ed 848 44 —
# of ISO45001 Manufacturing Sites Certiﬁ  ed82 — —
Charitable Contributions (% of Net Income) 1.5% 1.4% 1.9%
Charitable Contributions (millions USD) $42.5 $36.7 $ 3 7.8
Volunteer Hours 124,332 123,033 215,262
  GOVERNANCE 2021 2020 2019
Total Compliance Training Course Completed 279,147 247,1 89 236,020
# of Suppliers 4,457 4,533 —
# of Supplier Audits 880 402 —Board of Directors1
Senior Management
Management
General Workforce
- Salaried
- Production
Board of Directors1
Senior Management
Management
General Workforce
- Salaried
- Production
DIVERSITY — GENDER
BOARD OF DIRECTORS1SENIOR MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT
GENERAL WORKFORCE SALARIED PRODUCTIONMale Unidentiﬁ  ed Female
2021
 66.7%
 33.3%
2020
 72.7%
 2 7. 3 %
2019
 81.2%
 18.8%
2021
 85.3%
 14.7%
2020
 84.7%
 15.3%2021
 78.8%
 21.2%
2020
 79.8 %
 20.2%
2021
 80.2%
 19 .8%
2020
 80.7%
 19 .2%
 0.1%
2019
 80.6%
 19 .4%2021
 72.2%
 2 7.8 %
2020
 72.9%
 2 7.0 %
 0.1%
2019
 72.9%
 2 7.1 %2021
 87.1 %
 12.8%
 0.1%
2020
 88.3%
 11.6%
 0.1%
2019
 88.5%
 11.5%
DIVERSITY — RACE AND ETHNICITY 20212
AMERICAN INDIAN OR ALASKAN ASIAN BLACK OR AFRICAN AMERICAN
HAWAIIAN OR PACIFIC ISLANDER MULTIPLE RACES
WHITEBoard of Directors1
Senior Management
Management
General Workforce
- Salaried
- ProductionBoard of Directors1
Senior Management
Management
General Workforce
- Salaried
- Production
Board of Directors1
Senior Management
Management
General Workforce
- Salaried
- ProductionBoard of Directors1
Senior Management
Management
General Workforce
- Salaried
- Production
Board of Directors1
Senior Management
Management
General Workforce
- Salaried
- Production0.3%
0.7%
0.4% 
0.9%8.3%
8.8%
4.3%
3.4%
6.3%
0.6% 16.7%
7.0%
3.0%
6.0%
2.8%
9.1%
0.4%
0.7%
0.5%
0.8%HISPANIC OR LATINO
1.8%
2.7%
3.2%
3.2%
3.1% 
UNIDENTIFIED
Board of Directors1
Senior Management
Management
General Workforce
- Salaried
- Production0.4%
2.6%
0.8%
4.5%1  As of November 1, 2021, the ﬁ  rst day of Deere’s ﬁ  scal year 2022, Leanne G. Caret 
was elected to the Deere & Company Board of Directors. This temporarily raises the 
number of Deere’s Directors to 12. Dipak C. Jain is not standing for re-election at the 
Deere & Company 2022 Annual Shareholder Meeting on February 23, 2022. Therefore, 
it is anticipated that the number of Directors will return to 11 following the 2022 
Annual Shareholder Meeting. All metrics in this report are calculated on the basis 
of the 12-member Board of Directors reﬂected on page 56.
2  U.S. Employees Only.75.0 %
82.4 %
88.8 %
83.3 %
85.9 % 
80.9 %0.1%
0.1%
0.1%
0.1%
652021 AWARDSAE50 Awards
ExactRate™ Liquid Fertilizer System
Harvest Monitor with SmartClean™ System
X9 Combines
CH950 Sugar Cane Harvester
HDR Rigid Cutterbar Drapers
CF Folding Corn Heads
America’s Best-In-State Employer: 
#38 in Illinois, #5 in Iowa
Forbes
America’s Most JUST Companies: 
#1 for Workers in Commercial Vehicles 
and Machinery Industry
JUST 100
Best Global Brands
Interbrand
Top 5 Best Workplaces for Career 
Management — India
Great Place to Work
World Changing Ideas Award
Fast Company
World’s Most Admired Companies 
#1 in Construction and Farm Machinery
Fortune
World’s Most Ethical Companies
Ethisphere Institute
X9 Combine Awards
iF Design Award
Red Dot Award
67DEERE & COMPANY 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2021 
Sustainability
ReportDeere & Company
One John Deere Place, Moline, Illinois 61265
(309) 765-8000
www.JohnDeere.com Recycled Paper Printed with Soy Ink