2020  
Sustainability Report4
6
8
12Table of Contents2020 Sustainability Report
36
46
79
80         The Y ear in Highlights
Chairman and CEO Message
John Deere Strategy Overview
Featured Stories
ENVIRONMENTAL
SOCIAL
Data Table
Awards12
16
18
37
38
42
47
48
50
5222
26
32
43
44
45
54
61
62
64A Model for Sustainability
The Power of X  
Building a Better Infrastructure — and Future
Lowering Impacts with Innovation
Product Sustainability
Remanufacturing
Battling Food Insecurity During a Pandemic
Smart Citizenship
Workplace Health and Safety
Cultivating a Culture of InnovatorsComing Together while Standing Apart
Social and Economic Justice Matters  
Lives and Livelihoods in the Balance
Sustainable Energy Use
Use Water Responsibly
Increase Recycling
Talent 
Human Rights
Product Safety
Product Quality
66 GOVERNANCE
67
68
70
7172
73
74
77
782022 Sustainability Goals
Corporate Governance
Sustainability Governance
Environment, Health, and Safety  
Operations GovernanceCompliance
Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
Supply Chain
EcoVadis: Supplier Sustainability Ratings
Political Participation
3HighlightsTHE YEAR IN
GLOBAL  
FOOTPRINT
69,600  
EMPLOYEES
John Deere operates nearly 80 MILLION  square feet of facilities throughout 
the world and our equipment is sold in over 100 COUNTRIES
Region 1
Region 3Region 2
Region 4COVID-19
400K+ 85%
Face Shields 
ManufacturedGlobal Salaried Employees 
Working from Home
DELIVERING  
SUSTAINABLE OUTCOMES
230M+ 345K+
2XGlobal Engaged Acres Global Connected Machines
Increase of Incoming Data 
from 2019with Equipment Operations 
Manufacturing Locations
Administrative Offices Globallywith Parts Distribution Locations16 Countries
13 Countries
40
4FINANCIALS
Net Sales & Revenue
Shareholder Value AddedNet Income
$35.54
BILLION$2.75
BILLION
$1.56 BILLION
78%of Waste 
Recycled
86%Near-Miss Corrective Action Case Closures 
Within 60 Days in the First Year of 
Implementing This New Leading IndicatorOCCUPATIONAL 
SAFETYReduction in Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Since 2017of Global Electricity 
Sourced from Renewables32% 19%SUSTAINABLE  
ENERGY USE
INCREASE  
RECYCLING
OVER $4 MILLION21New Product Programs 
Rolled Out This YearPRODUCT  
INNOVATIONS
Average Daily Research and Development InvestmentBOARD OF DIRECTORS
27%
45%
27%Females on 
Board of Directors
Female or Ethnically 
Diverse Directors
Ethnically Diverse on Board of Directors
3 Female Directors           3 Ethnically Diverse Directors
2 Board Committees Led by Diverse Directors
COMMUNITY  
INVESTMENT
Invested in Citizenship Efforts $36.7  MILLION28 MILLION
Pounds of Material Recycled 
Through RemanufacturingPRODUCT
SUSTAINABILITY
5We run so life can leap forward .
In 2020, John Deere accelerated our reinvention 
to focus our future squarely on the futures of 
our customers. We’re directing the power of 
our enterprise to deliver intelligent, connected 
machines and applications that will revolutionize 
our customers’ businesses, unlocking economic 
value across the full lifecycle of our products in 
ways that are sustainable for all. We’re guided by 
three enablers essential to unlocking greater and 
more sustainable value for our customers. While this expression of John Deere’s higher purpose is new, its meaning is derived 
from what we’ve believed since our very beginning: We must act with urgency today  
to make the lives of our customers, workforce, and all those we serve better tomorrow.
We’ll focus our work on understanding every step of our customers’ 
production systems — each input, activity, and output. 
 
We’ll deliver an accessible technology stack, including machinery, 
hardware, software, connectivity, data platforms, and applications, 
to improve customer productivity, efficiency, and profitability across 
their production systems. 
 
We’ll provide our customers with lifecycle solutions in the form 
of parts, upgrades, and support that not only maintain the value 
of their investment, but also enhance value throughout their full 
experience with us. 1
2
3
6This year we caught powerful glimpses of our new direction. 
For instance, John Deere unveiled the X Series Combine –  
our most advanced combine ever. These marvels average  
45 percent more harvesting capacity across all crops, all while 
using 20 percent less fuel. The X Series stands as a guidepost 
to what we can accomplish — a richer harvest for our 
customers and a smaller environmental footprint for us all.
 
Our work was made more challenging by COVID-19 . We 
persevered by honoring our core values — integrity, quality, 
commitment, and innovation — and bringing them to life 
through how we protected our people. We deployed an 
array of precautions, all because the health and safety of our 
workforce are our highest priorities. Beyond this, we protected 
their financial well-being by keeping our operations running. 
The way we handled COVID-19 stands as another guidepost  
for what we can accomplish — a more prosperous workforce. 
 
What’s more, through our efforts one thing has been made 
apparent to me — our higher purpose is so bold that to be 
successful we must welcome everyone to join us in its pursuit. 
For our customers, this means using our technologies, talents, 
and resources to eliminate barriers to their livelihoods.  
For our people, this means creating a culture that embraces 
courage, accountability, diversity, equity, and the impact that 
these qualities create. Looking ahead, my personal success 
in inviting others into our purpose will be my most important 
contribution to what John Deere can accomplish — a more  
just society and better world.
 
While the accomplishments presented in the 2020 
Sustainability Report are a source of pride, they don’t 
represent the culmination of our efforts. For us, they are 
simply markers of what we’ve accomplished so far. More 
importantly, they serve as proof of the horizons yet to be 
reached especially when we remain true to our higher  
purpose. I am excited to see how far we all can leap.“WE’RE DIRECTING THE POWER 
OF OUR ENTERPRISE TO DELIVER 
INTELLIGENT, CONNECTED MACHINES 
AND APPLICATIONS THAT WILL 
REVOLUTIONIZE OUR CUSTOMERS’ 
BUSINESSES, UNLOCKING ECONOMIC 
VALUE ACROSS THE FULL LIFECYCLE  
OF OUR PRODUCTS IN WAYS THAT  
ARE SUSTAINABLE FOR ALL.”
To see more of the story, 
visit news.johndeerestories.com
7PURPOSE: WHY WE EXIST
WE RUN SO LIFE  
CAN LEAP FORWARD
CORE VALUES: HOW WE RUN
Integrity             Quality             Commitment             Innovation
STRATEGY: OUR NEXT LEAP
Production Systems  unlock customer value by making each step of the system more efficient
Technology Stack  enables our machines to do things smarter, more precisely, and with more productivity
Lifecycle Solutions  add value throughout the life of the product, maximizing uptime and minimizing cost
Dealers  sustainably deliver our value proposition and support customers locally
Capital Allocation  prioritizes and reinvests in high return activities
Diverse Talent  leads innovation that makes our company and customers more successful 
Sustainability  furthers our stewardship of people and planet
Customer Value Creation
increase customer profitabilityCustomer Preference  
 be the premier choiceProfitable Growth
drive OROS, OROA and SVAEmployee Engagement
inspire and lift up our employeesPERFORMANCE: HOW WE MEASUREWe conduct business essential to life. Running for the people 
who trust us and the planet that sustains us, we create intelligent 
connected machines that enable lives to leap forward.
8In 2020, we launched the Smart Industrial Operating Model  
with the aim of making our company more efficient, nimble,  
and competitive. Through this model, we will unlock new 
economic value for our customers so that they can become more 
profitable and sustainable. We will do this by revolutionizing 
agriculture and construction through the rapid introduction of 
new technologies and services. When we do, we will create more 
sustainable outcomes for our customers, employees, dealers, 
suppliers, shareholders, and the communities we serve. A SMARTER WAY
TO DO BUSINESS
9Think of our technology stack as the hardware 
and devices, embedded software, connectivity, 
data platforms, and applications that build 
upon our machines to unlock more economic 
value for our customers. This stack can simplify 
jobs, strengthen decision-making, and better 
connect  the steps of a production system. 
Through the stack, our customers will be able 
to do more with less.
When customers buy from John Deere, they deserve our 
support for the entire lifecycle of their machine. Our new 
integrated support strategy will enhance customer value 
through proactive and reactive support and easy access 
to parts, value-add services, and performance upgrades, 
regardless of when a customer purchases our equipment. • Dairy & Livestock
• High-Value Crops
• Turf & Compact Utility
• Earthmoving• Roadbuilding
• Forestry• Corn & Soy
• Small Grains
• Sugar
• CottonA production system is how our customers get work 
done. It encompasses the jobs they perform and the 
decisions they make to grow a crop or complete a 
project. All of these jobs and decisions form a complete 
system in which one job or decision influences the 
next. By dedicating our business to our customers’ 
production systems, we can better identify the greatest 
opportunities to help them save on expenses, increase 
productivity, and become more sustainable.PRODUCTION SYSTEMS
TECHNOLOGY STACK
LIFECYCLE SOLUTIONSKEY PRODUCTION SYSTEMS
10MATERIALITY
John Deere uses broad stakeholder engagement, 
internal measurement and accountability, and 
alignment with existing industry frameworks to  
inform our sustainability reporting. 
With guidance from John Deere’s leadership and Board of Directors,  
we engage our stakeholders on sustainability topics to understand 
their priorities and earn their trust. We regularly interact with 
customers, employees, dealers, suppliers, shareholders, industry 
experts, nonprofit organizations, and many others, all with the goal  
of delivering more sustainable outcomes for all. 
As we launched our Smart Industrial Operating Model in 2020,  
we also reevaluated our sustainability priorities and goals. As a result, 
this year’s sustainability reporting includes new and expanded topics 
relevant to our new operating model and its key outcomes. 
John Deere aligned our sustainability reporting with our internal 
Enterprise Risk Management process. We also aligned our reporting 
to the material issues identified by the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB ), including those specific to the Industrial 
Goods and Machinery industry. 
In addition, our 2020 report continues to incorporate GRI reporting . 
John Deere supports the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) , a set of 17 interconnected goals that provide specific 
targets to drive the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
11For generations, farmers have cared for their land in ways that 
preserve it. They strive to make the most of every seed and 
kernel, every drop of nutrient and fuel, and every hour of work 
to ensure their business remains productive and profitable. 
They wish to protect their watersheds, preserve the health 
of their soil, and steward the other environmental resources 
needed to sustain their crops and their livelihoods. 
John Deere’s solutions empower farmers to achieve these 
aspirations. They allow farmers to both do their jobs more 
precisely and productively through advanced technology 
as well as make better decisions based on data. We work 
relentlessly to help them optimize inputs and maximize output. Our vision is to ensure our customers are the most 
profitable and sustainable in the world. John Deere precision 
technologies are delivering the ultimate sustainable outcome 
— farming operations that are both more profitable as well as 
less intensive on the soil, water, and air. 
For nearly two decades, we’ve been developing advanced 
tools and technologies that help farmers achieve this ultimate 
outcome. And we’re just getting started. A MODEL FOR
Sustainability
12The five key steps of the corn and soy crop production 
systems include Manage, Prepare, Plant, Protect, and 
Harvest. Throughout this cycle, farmers must adjust to 
constantly varying conditions to optimize their inputs, 
investments, and operations, all while mitigating the 
impact on land, water, and air. With increasingly variable 
weather, a farmer has extremely narrow windows in 
which to complete jobs like planting and harvesting —
every job is a race against time. John Deere’s products 
help make adjustments in real-time to ensure the most 
precise, least-intensive application with each pass. 
We’ve highlighted the sustainable outcomes our 
farmers are experiencing today with six key John Deere 
technologies. The outcomes reflected here are based 
on a model farm analysis, which is built to represent 
a Midwest farming operation with 6,500 acres of row 
crops, split evenly between corn and soybeans.Manage
There is no “off season” for a farmer. 
Throughout the production cycle, 
John Deere’s connectivity technology 
and digital tools enable our farmers to 
monitor their operations, make tactical 
decisions and devise strategic plans 
for the following season. John Deere’s 
connectivity solutions and digital tools 
enable the collection and analysis of data 
throughout the production cycle.
Prepare
Data has been analyzed and decisions have been made to enable the crop production cycle 
to begin. Our farmer must first prepare the field for the new growing season. Weeds steal 
water and nutrients from growing crops, so starting with a weed-free field is critical. It’s also 
important to ensure that the soil provides optimal growing conditions for the new seeds. 
AUTOTRACTM technology incorporated on 
the farmer’s John Deere tractor optimizes 
each pass through the field as the soil is 
prepared, reducing overlap and ensuring 
that every inch of ground is only touched  
as much as needed. 
Outcomes: Time savings, fuel savings, 
reduced operator fatigue, reduced herbicide 
and fertilizer usage, reduced carbon 
footprint, reduced soil compaction.SECTION CONTROL utilizes GPS technology 
to turn sections of a John Deere sprayer 
on and off, enables even application of 
herbicides and avoids double application, 
particularly when the machine is making 
tight turns. When covering areas not 
requiring nutrients, sections can be 
completely turned off.
Outcomes: Reduced herbicide and fertilizer 
usage, reduced carbon footprint. 
TRUSETTM tillage technology allows the 
producer to make automated, precise 
depth adjustments to tillage implement 
to respond to the varying residue levels, 
moisture levels, and soil compaction 
throughout the field, creating a more 
consistent and healthy seedbed for crops. 
 
Outcomes: Increased yield, fuel savings, 
reduced carbon footprint.SUSTAINABILITY THROUGHOUT 
THE PRODUCTION SYSTEM
AutoTrac™ ensures that every 
inch of ground is only touched 
as much as needed.
13Plant
Once the soil is prepared and weather is optimal, our 
farmer will begin planting. The farmer must optimize 
placement of seeds and nutrients, minimize the number 
of passes through the field, and complete this step  
within a narrow window of time. 
Protect
As the seeds start to grow and mature, our farmer must 
continue to monitor and care for their health to ensure they 
reach their full potential. Ideal outcomes are achieved by 
minimizing passes through the field and disruption to the soil, 
while applying nutrients only when and where needed. EXACTEMERGE™ planter technology provides 
accurate and consistent seed placement, ensuring 
every single seed has its ideal space, and precise 
placement into the ground — all while allowing the 
operator to execute the job at nearly double the 
speed of other planters. ExactEmerge™ enables 
faster execution of the job, without sacrificing 
precise placement and population of seeds to deliver 
optimal growth conditions. With AutoTrac™ enabled, 
each planting pass is optimized to further reduce 
overlap. And the addition of Section Control provides 
independent control of each planter row, enabling 
each row to be paused to avoid overlap, double 
planting, and planting in non-productive ground.
Outcomes: Increased yield, time savings,  
fuel savings, seed savings. 
EXACTAPPL Y™ spraying technology allows 
for individual nozzles on a John Deere 
sprayer to be turned on and off to eliminate 
overapplication and double application, and 
completely avoid waterways or non-productive 
ground. Turn compensation technology varies 
the application rate across the machine as it 
turns to minimize over and under-application. 
When combined with AutoTrac™ and Section 
Control, ExactApply™ gives producers 
industry-leading control over protecting  
their crops, applying less total nutrients to the 
crops and soil while driving optimal outputs.
Outcomes: Reduced herbicide usage, 
avoidance of application in waterways, 
reduced carbon footprint.ExactApply™ gives producers
industry-leading control over
protecting their crops with
reduced inputs, while still 
achieving optimal outputs.ExactEmerge™ provides
accurate and consistent 
seed placement at double 
 the speed.
14Over the course of each production cycle, a single 
John Deere customer farming 6,500 acres utilizing 
the six technologies highlighted here could realize  
the following sustainable outcomes:*
over $180,000  
of input costs saved — an almost 10 
percent reduction of typical input costs
over $260,000  
of total value delivered to the producer through 
input savings and increased yield outcome
$40 per acre in value add  
to John Deere customers the equivalent of over 992,000 
passenger car miles driven per year***DELIVERING  
SUSTAINABLE  
OUTCOMESHarvest
The plants have reached their potential, and our farmer must 
efficiently harvest millions of kernels of corn and soybeans  
in a short window of time before early winter weather sets in,  
while mitigating crop losses, efficiently running operations,  
and protecting the land. Harvesting is a complex job, and many 
factors — such as hilly terrain and foreign materials getting mixed 
in with the grain — can impact the ability to collect and derive 
value from every kernel.
Together, these technologies 
allow our farmer to optimize 
the complete production 
cycle and to do it better next 
time, ensuring that every 
drop, every seed, every hour, 
and every pass counts.
Repeat CycleCOMBINE ADVISOR™ , groundbreaking technology available 
on John Deere combines, incorporates vision technology 
and machine learning to automatically adjust to changing 
crop conditions such as varying moisture levels and the 
presence of foreign materials to mitigate any losses. Active 
terrain adjustment helps reduce losses while maintaining 
efficiency on hilly terrain. When combined with AutoTrac, 
Combine Advisor keeps the combine accurately operating  
on the row at all times.
Outcomes: Increased yields, reduced operator fatigue,  
fuel savings, time savings , reduced carbon footprint.
* Results may vary.
** Majority of savings derived from corn acres.  
***Source: https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-
equivalencies-calculatorCombine 
Advisor 
helps reduce 
losses while 
maintaining 
efficiency on 
hilly terrain.over 1,600  gallons  
of diesel fuel saved
over 70  bags
of seed corn saved
over 160  bags
of soybeans saved
over 1,000  less gallons
of herbicide applied
over 400,000  kg CO 2
equivalent emissions avoided **over 250,000  less lbs
of fertilizer applied
15THE POWER OF
A RICHER HARVEST WITH A SMALLER FOOTPRINT
16We innovate on behalf of humanity and planet. The most 
powerful combine we’ve ever made — the X9 — exemplifies 
how our innovative solutions help bring farmers more 
precision, efficiency, and profitability to their work.  
And when farmers can make more with less, the entire 
world benefits.
The X9 was introduced after years of input by farmers 
who identified their most important needs in a combine, 
including what does and doesn’t work in their operation. 
Large-acre farmers have short harvest windows and tight 
profit margins. They need maximum productivity with 
minimal losses. 
Built for increased harvesting capacity, with more efficient 
power, better residue management, and loaded with 
integrated technology, X9 Combines offer large-acre 
farmers a giant leap forward in harvesting efficiency.  
It delivers 45 percent more harvesting capacity across all 
crop types, with no shortage of grain quality — while using 
20 percent less fuel per bushel (or ton) harvested. Farmers 
benefit from greater productivity and profitability while 
losing less grain and improving fuel efficiency. With less 
grain lost, everyone gains from greater food supply and 
food security.
Belts, transmission, residue system, and dual rotors 
contribute to lower fuel costs. To deliver 45 percent more 
capacity, the X9 Combine needs only 11 percent more 
horsepower than an S790. The ProDrive XL transmission 
delivers 30 percent more torque. The simplified belt-drive 
system uses larger pulleys and belts to improve hand-off 
power. And a new residue system consumes less power.Critical to unlocking the most value for our customers is 
taking advantage of the technology stack from across our 
product lines. Thousands of innovations build upon each 
other to deliver groundbreaking solutions. To give just  
one example, the high-performance premium chopper  
has 24 knives operating at 3,000 rpm to ensure residue  
is quickly incorporated into the ground, releasing valuable 
nutrients for the next planting season.
Our innovation is driven by our customers, who strive 
to be more productive and profitable. This innovation 
effort begins on the factory floor of our world-class 
manufacturing facilities, including the Harvester Works 
where our harvesters are built. A Smart Connected Factory 
strategy is being implemented that will revolutionize 
manufacturing at more than 60 John Deere factories 
around the world. It will establish digital threads of product 
and process information, while seamlessly connecting 
people, supplies, equipment, and technology. Analytics 
improve decision making and optimize outcomes. 
These capabilities create more dynamic logistics and 
production planning, improve the visibility and accuracy  
of materials throughout the global supply chain, and  
allow real-time customization of assembler instructions. 
The Smart Connected Factory strategy is an important 
aspect of sustainability, as our innovations not only allow 
our customers to leap forward, but our employees as well.
 
To see more of the story, 
visit deere.com/en/harvesting/x-series-combines/
We innovate on behalf of humanity and planet. 
17BUILDING A BETTER 
INFRASTRUCTURE —
and Future
A robust infrastructure is essential to a thriving economy  
and a more sustainable world. New roads and bridges can  
cut delivery time for goods, lowering costs for consumers 
and reducing environmental impact. New airports and 
seaports connect an economy to the world, making a 
country’s markets more competitive while raising standards 
of living. Globally, we face a $15 trillion gap between 
projected infrastructure investment and what is needed 
by 2040 for us to prosper. For instance, today the U.S. lags 
behind other developed countries, ranking 13th in the world 
in infrastructure quality. Inadequately maintained roads, 
bridges, and waterways cost billions every year in the U.S.  
in lost productivity. Delays due to traffic congestion alone 
cost the U.S. over $120 billion annually. Twenty percent of  
all airport delays are due to inadequate infrastructure, 
costing the economy another $35 billion a year.*Rebuilding our global infrastructure represents an enormous 
opportunity. John Deere’s innovative solutions allow 
contractors to unlock economic value from earthmoving, 
roadbuilding, and other large projects because they can do 
more with limited resources. Through our production system 
focus and technology stack, we’re delivering solutions  
that increase productivity and efficiency faster than ever. 
The examples of earthmoving and roadbuilding sites 
depicted here provide verified examples based on an actual 
customer’s experience of what is possible today.
*Sources: Council on Foreign Relations, www.cfr.org;  
World Economic Forum, www.weforum.org
18Grade management can provide a huge advantage in the earthmoving business. John Deere’s 
grade control technology controls the cutting edge of the dozer blade, so the operator 
doesn’t have to do all the finesse work when grading a job site. This increases efficiency and 
accuracy for novices and experienced operators alike, so they can achieve excellent results. 
When you compare this project to a
similar job site using machines without
grade control, the savings in money
and materials are significant. Operators
spend less time so less fuel is burned.
Fewer hours are needed to complete the
job, saving the contractor quite a bit of
time and allowing them to get to the next 
job sooner. And less asphalt is used
because grading is more precise. This not
only saves money, it reduces the amount 
of petroleum and natural gas needed to 
produce asphalt and bedding material, 
making the operation overall more 
sustainable. Plus, less fuel is needed to 
quarry aggregate and transport materials 
to the job site.EXAMPLE
EARTHMOVING SITE
EXTRAORDINARY 
VALUE OF GRADE 
CONTROL 750L DOZER (2D)772GP GRADER (3D)
EQUIPMENT  
& LABOR COST  
(PER LANE MILE)
ASPHALT  
COST SAVINGS
ASPHALT SAVINGSLABOR COST SAVINGS$1,002 $714
$ 5 7,4 20  
95 TONS$1.15M
1900 TONS$2,874 $ 5 7,4 8 129% Lower750L AND  
772GP W/O 
GRADE  
CONTROL750L (2D) & 
772GP (3D) 
WITH  
GRADE 
CONTROLPERCENTAGE  
CHANGE1 SITE
(10 LANE MILES)20 SITES/  
ANNUALL Y
362 METRIC TONS CO2 EQUIVALENT 
EMISSIONS SAVED  = 900,000  
MILES IN AVERAGE PASSENGER VEHICLE** *Results may vary based on job site, material conditions, weather, etc.
 **Results based on asphalt savings associated with 20 job sites.  
      Source: https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculatorGRADE CONTROL
The grade control technology enables the 
contractor to complete the job more quickly 
and reduces the need for the grade checker 
75 percent of the time for significant labor 
reduction. Additionally the higher accuracy  
sub-grade keeps asphalt thickness on spec 
versus 2/10” thicker resulting in significant 
material savings. This example illustrates the 
benefits of using grade control technology.On this 160-acre example site,  
a contractor is installing 10 lane 
miles of road in a newly constructed 
subdivision. The roadbuilding project 
is completed using a John Deere 750L 
Dozer equipped with 2D control for the 
more level surfaces and a 772GP Motor 
Grader equipped with 3D control for 
contoured surfaces.The Project
19RECYCLING      PAVING      COMPACTIONOur innovations in cost-effective, environmentally friendly 
construction methods help ensure the sustainability of global road 
infrastructure over the long term. The high-performance Wirtgen  
W 240 CRi and W 380 CRi cold recyclers rehabilitate extra-wide  
road surfaces in a single pass, efficiently and effectively.
On this example site, a contractor employs highly efficient cold 
recycling methods instead of traditional mill and fill methods in  
place. Cold recycling reutilizes materials that are already in place 
and paid for, while minimizing the cost and environmental impact of 
hauling millings to the asphalt plant and new materials from a quarry.
Traditionally, pavement repairs are 
carried out by a cold-milling machine, 
skid steer, a paver, and a roller. 
Cold recycling uses a dedicated 
machine, in this case a high-
performance Wirtgen W 380  
CRi cold recycler.The cold-milling machine removes existing damaged 
asphalt down to the subbase of the road.Trucks transport new 
materials to the site  
to feed the paver.
The cold recycler prepares asphalt surfaces on  
job sites by recycling damaged asphalt pavement. Damaged asphalt is loaded into a fleet  
of trucks for transport away from the site. 
These materials are hauled back to the 
asphalt plant to be recycled into new asphalt.
Existing pavement is granulated and mixed with water, 
binding agents, and cement to create a material that can be 
used to directly stabilize and repave the roadbed in a single 
pass. The process can double the life of the road, while 
opening it back up to vehicle traffic in half the time.Trucks transport 
existing materials 
away from the site 
to be recycled. 
Damaged asphalt does not need to be hauled 
away. New material does not need to be 
quarried and hauled back to the job site.EXAMPLE
COLD-RECYCLING 
ROADBUILDING SITE
The Project
On this job site the contractor 
is rebuilding 40 lane miles  
of road.
TRADITIONAL 
RE-PAVING PROCESS
COLD-IN-PLACE
RECYCLINGMILLING      TRANSPORT      BATCH MAKING      TRANSPORT      PAVING      COMPACTION
Outcomes: Fuel savings, preservation of natural 
resources, reduced carbon footprint, operator 
time savings, and reduced lane closures.
Outcomes: Improved length of life, reducing monetary 
and environmental cost of replacing roads.
20The Wirtgen W 240 CRi and W 380 CRi 
were awarded the prestigious John Deere 
2020 Design for Environment Award which 
recognizes product innovations that reduce  
the environmental impact of our customers.
To see more of the story, 
visit https://www.wirtgen-group.com/
ocs/en-us/wirtgen/w-240-cri-706-p/Cold-in-place recycling results in more profitability and productivity, 
with less virgin material required and less old material being sent 
to the asphalt plant to be recycled into new material. The process 
is more efficient, allowing the contractor to complete more 
projects over the course of a year. The result is an annual economic 
opportunity of millions of dollars while significantly lowering CO2 
equivalent emissions.SUSTAINABILITY  
MEETS PROFITABILITY
$1.5B IN ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY
1 COLD RECYCLER = 5,000
REDUCTIONMETRIC TONS OF CO 2  
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS AVOIDED
REDUCTIONif cold recyclers used on just 1 percent of jobs in U.S.
Equivalent to over 12 million passenger miles driven used per job (40 lane miles)
in material transported per job
in CO 2 equivalent  
emissions per jobLANE MILES  
COMPLETED
COST   (PER LANE MILE)
ROAD LIFESPAN40
$250K
$2.1M
0.5$69K
$13.4M
4
10-15 YRS 7-8 YRS72% DECREASE
550% INCREASE
700% INCREASE40
PROFIT (PER PROJECT)
JOBS (PER YEAR)TRADITIONAL 
METHODCOLD 
RECYCLINGPERCENTAGE CHANGE  
(FROM TRADITIONAL METHOD)
90%
60% *Results may vary based on job site, material conditions, weather, etc.
21coming while standing TOGETHER
APARTKeeping the world running
The hard work of our customers and our employees is essential 
to the lives of all people. They keep the world running by 
meeting our needs for food, fuel, shelter, and infrastructure. 
They’ve faced tough times before. But the COVID-19 pandemic 
has taught us all no matter how difficult the challenge, we can 
innovate and overcome. No matter what news another day 
brings, we can put on a hard hat, go out into the world, and 
make a difference.
Protecting the safety and well-being of our people is our top 
priority. By protecting their livelihoods in the face of COVID-19 , 
John Deere strengthened the resiliency of our customers, 
communities, and all those who depend upon our products  
and services to overcome the pandemic. 
As COVID-19 unfolded, John Deere continued to operate.  
We took immediate action to safeguard our factory employees. 
For those not required in factory operations, we offered  
remote work arrangements and deployed new technologies  
to strengthen virtual connectivity. 
Across our facilities, we enhanced our cleaning and sanitization. 
We also staggered shifts and restructured our assembly lines 
to promote social distancing, while providing face shields and 
additional personal protective equipment (PPE) and other 
measures. Thermometer checks or thermo scanning have been 
implemented at several of our factories. Because of these 
and other steps, John Deere created a safe workplace for its 
employees, and our operations have been able to continue 
without significant interruption.KEEPING OUR EMPLOYEES SAFE 
Necessity is the mother of invention, and the challenges  
of the pandemic have inspired our global team of engineers 
to come up with more than 20 innovative safety solutions. 
These include divider screens for computer workstations, 
ear-saving mask straps, no-touch door openers, personal-
use safety handles for hand carts, and clips that affix face 
shields to ordinary ballcaps. 3D printing allowed these last 
two innovations to be produced quickly and inexpensively.  
John Deere continued to make enough clips for 18,000 
ballcaps and is sharing the 3D printing specification online 
free of charge. 
The John Deere factory in Mannheim, Germany, shut 
down production for two weeks to create space for social 
distancing and minimize the risk of infection. A special 
team defined and implemented 73 projects, including 
taking contactless temperature measurement, modifying 
walking routes and breakrooms, and minimizing employee 
interaction. Before the pandemic, it wasn’t uncommon for 
workers to work shoulder to shoulder. Now smaller teams 
are assigned to workstations, allowing highly-trained 
employees to spread out and handle more tasks.
To help secure the livelihoods of its factory employees,  
John Deere provided work flexibility and financial support  
for employees who struggled to provide childcare.  
We waived waiting periods for those with pre-existing 
conditions, so that they could access short-term disability 
benefits and stay home. We also provided financial awards 
to recognize and reward factory employees for their 
dedicated contributions. And we made sure our workforce 
was aware of mental health resources that could assist  
them and their loved ones to cope with any stress  
and anxiety during challenging times.
Our employees, dealers, and customers are adapting, 
persevering, and overcoming challenges unlike any 
we have experienced. Here are a few of their stories.
23SHIELDING THOSE ON THE FRONT LINESENGAGING DEALERS AND TECHNOLOGY 
IN THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19
Leveraging both their skills in manufacturing as well as their 
passion for community service, the team at our Moline Seeding 
Group factory produced and distributed over 400,000 plastic 
protective face shields, 134,000 of which were sent to 49 
Veterans Health Administration hospitals in 35 U.S. states.  
In partnership with the John Deere Foundation, several 
were sent to communities of color that were being 
disproportionately impacted by COVID-19 . 
This joint effort between John Deere; the United Automobile, 
Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America 
(UAW); International Association of Machinists (IAM); 
Iowa Department of Homeland Security; and the Illinois 
Manufacturers’ Association represented one of many 
collaborations between John Deere and those in our home 
communities as we worked together to overcome the pandemic.Since 2017 , John Deere and our dealers have used  
John Deere Connected Support™ to constantly monitor 
our customers’ machines to help reduce costly downtime. 
Dealers use Expert Alerts based on data collected from 
thousands of connected machines to proactively address 
conditions that may otherwise likely lead to downtime. 
Remote diagnostics and programming allow technicians to 
resolve issues from a distance without a time-consuming 
trip to the job site. At a time of social distancing and 
limited interaction, this capability has become even more 
critical. In the months following the beginning of the 
pandemic, we’ve seen a dramatic increase in the total 
volume of Connected Support use by dealers to support 
our customers remotely and proactively.
“To me, it’s my patriotic duty to help out 
our country, especially those on the front 
lines. I don’t want someone  to lose a 
spouse, a partner, a child, or a parent.  
I’ll do anything in my power to make 
sure that doesn’t happen.”
JERRY MILLER JR., JOHN DEERE SEEDING ASSEMBLY
24CRITICAL MACHINES FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
In the midst of COVID-19 , it was not enough for John Deere 
to manufacture its machines. We also had to make sure that 
the machines we manufactured made it to the customers who 
depend upon them. This proved to be quite a challenge as 
countries around the globe imposed lockdowns restricting the 
shipment of goods.
The John Deere sub-Saharan Africa and Supply Management 
teams worked tirelessly and found creative ways to keep our shipments running. For example, when a shipment of 53 
tractors sent to a South African customer was turned away at 
the port of Durban, the team immediately began working with 
the shipping company and port authority. Through the team’s 
extraordinary efforts, the cargo vessel carrying the tractors 
was allowed to return to the port. Outside of South Africa, 
the John Deere team also contributed to an interim export 
regulation imposed for the Southern African Development 
Community’s 15 countries to allow agricultural equipment  
and parts to move cross-border during the lockdown.
CUSTOMER APPRECIATION
In 2020, Todd Stutrud, a farmer near Barton, 
North Dakota, ordered numerous new John Deere 
models that would make up the majority of his 
fleet. When the pandemic struck, he needed 
to make sure that the factory completed these 
orders so he could take delivery. Like all farmers 
he has a very small window of opportunity to 
complete the task of managing, preparing, 
planting, protecting, and harvesting weather-
dependent crops. Even the smallest delay can 
negatively affect the acres seeded, fertilizer 
applied, and acres harvested. Here’s an excerpt 
from a letter he wrote to John Deere employees.Dear John Deere employees,
        
I am a very proud John Deere customer. As an employee of John Deere,  
you manufacture and support the equipment that my family relies on to  
make a living. This year, especially with the COVID-19 pandemic, I am even 
more grateful for your hard work. We needed this equipment for the current 
year’s plant, and John Deere and the John Deere employees delivered. 
I would like you to know that YOU are a vital piece of the process. Y our 
willingness to work and to complete these John Deere orders does not go 
unnoticed. Here is to the celebration of your important job at John Deere, 
making high quality machines, and keeping us in the field.
 
On behalf of the entire Stutrud family, I would like to thank you for 
everything that YOU do, to make OUR job seamless and successful. I cannot 
stress to you enough, the importance of the high quality of work you 
complete, and the high standard you are held to. Thank you, John Deere 
employees, for your consistency and attention to detail, each and every day!
Sincerely,
Todd Stutrud, farmer, Barton, North Dakota
25At John Deere, we believe that when we strengthen the 
diversity of our workforce, we improve our ability to 
innovate. Diversity brings new ideas, better decisions,  
and stronger connections to the vibrant world within  
and around us. It’s a competitive advantage.
There is no more important role in our company where 
we embrace diversity and its benefits, than in our factory 
managers. They lead the people who manufacture and 
improve the machines upon which our success depends.  
As importantly, factory managers serve as role models  
for our workforce and in our communities for who we  
are and what we stand for.SOCIAL &
ECONOMIC
JUSTICE
26PAYING IT 
FORWARD
There’s no place that Rosalind “Roz” 
Fox, factory manager at John Deere 
Des Moines Works, would rather be 
than among the workers and high-tech 
manufacturing equipment of the 3.5 
million-square-foot facility. “Every day, 
we take hunks of metal and transform 
them into majestic machines,” she 
says. “It’s so fulfilling to see your 
work roar to life. I’m not out on the 
line turning wrenches, but I have the 
privilege of leading teams responsible 
for that. It’s unbelievable.”
An industrial engineer by trade, Fox 
runs the billion-dollar manufacturing 
center in Des Moines, Iowa. She is 
joined by many women throughout 
the organization who are thriving 
— not just in manufacturing, but 
other technical fields like Technology, 
Finance, and Data and Analytics.  
To further their professional growth, 
our company has established over 
40 employee networks and resource 
groups dedicated to supporting 
diverse and common interests. This 
is just one way John Deere is helping 
all employees forge a career, from the 
board room to the factory floor.
Fox is the youngest of six children 
and grew up in St. Louis, Missouri. 
“We lived in government-subsidized 
housing, but I had no idea we were 
poor,” Fox said. “We loved each other 
very much, and my parents worked 
very hard to make sure we had lights, 
gas, and food. They raised us to be 
very independent, strong-willed, and 
taught us that we could do anything 
we set our minds to.”
After high school, Fox lacked direction, 
working part-time stocking shelves 
at a department store after being 
fired from a fast-food restaurant. 
But with her father’s support, Fox 
graduated from the University of Missouri-Columbia with an electrical 
engineering degree, then earned her 
master’s in industrial engineering. 
While working as factory manager  
for a legendary American automaker,  
a recruiter offered her an interview 
with John Deere. “ At the automaker,  
it was cutthroat,” she recalls. “Nobody 
smiled. And all of a sudden, I’m at a 
place where everyone was so nice and 
welcoming.”
Fox took the job, but still had doubts 
about staying with John Deere long-
term. Then she made a work trip 
to South Africa, where she visited 
customers who were cultivating the 
first scalable crops they’d ever grown 
because of John Deere products. 
“When I saw that our work was truly 
changing people’s lives, that was the 
moment I decided I was going to stay 
with John Deere,” she recalls. “I’ll never 
forget it.”
The first Black female factory manager 
in John Deere history, Fox pays it 
forward. “I wish I had the opportunity 
to learn about engineering at an early 
age,” she says. “So we’ve started 
an ‘introduce a girl to engineering’ 
day. We’re also sponsoring a weld 
program, and we’re offering welding 
scholarships for young adults to 
work here. I’m committed to helping 
young people pursue STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering, and Math) 
careers in any way I can.”
Recently, Fox was appointed by Iowa 
Governor Kim Reynolds to serve on 
the state’s Commission on the Status 
of African Americans. At John Deere, 
she’s focusing on fostering a more 
diverse and inclusive company and 
developing future female leaders. “If I 
can do it, they can do it,” says Fox.  
“It’s not about how you start, it’s how 
you end. If you look at all the struggles 
I had early — if I can get through that 
and have some level of success, you 
absolutely can do it. Don’t be afraid. 
Step up to the challenge.”“I’M COMMITTED  
TO HELPING YOUNG 
PEOPLE PURSUE STEM  
(SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY , 
ENGINEERING, AND 
MATH) CAREERS IN  
ANY WAY I CAN.”
Rosalind “Roz” Fox
F actory Manager,
Des Moines Works
27REDUCING OUR  
CARBON FOOTPRINT  
AND MAXIMIZING  
OUR DIVERSITY
Of the dozen manufacturing facilities Deere operates in the 
United States, six are led by women, including Jena
Holtberg-Benge, General Manager, John Deere Reman.  
She provides global leadership for our remanufacturing
division that employs approximately 650 people and 
distributes remanufactured John Deere parts worldwide. 
That includes overseeing production at our remanufacturing 
facilities in Springfield and Stafford, Missouri, and 
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Holtberg-Benge is a strong 
believer in the value of remanufacturing to provide quality 
products to customers, while meeting global sustainability 
goals – reusing material through remanufacturing.
And she’s a big believer in diversity. “We need a shift in 
thinking about diversity and what it can bring to the company,” 
says Holtberg-Benge. “Our workforce needs to reflect our 
community. What really motivates me has been our ability to 
attract an extremely talented diverse workforce.”
John Deere Reman sells in over 100 countries globally. 
“Diversity has really helped us understand our customer base. 
In Reman, we’re seeing significantly improved shareholder 
value add (SVA) and operating return on operating assets (OROA). By having a diverse leadership team, John Deere 
Reman has been able to deliver on financial results, including 
improved margins.”
Holtberg-Benge has been able to achieve these results 
by taking a less hierarchical approach to leadership. “The 
old-school factory manager model of telling people what 
to do can’t succeed in a diverse climate. Through our Smart 
Industrial redesign, we’re flattening our organization. This 
new approach gets everyone engaged in striving toward the 
same goals.”
Holtberg-Benge received the Remanufacturing Industries 
Council’s (RIC) ACE award for its mission to Advocate, 
Collaborate, and Educate on behalf of the industry. She earned 
the Collaborate Award for her “strong leadership, enthusiasm, 
and collaborative spirit” chairing the Remanufacturing Alliance 
that promotes the industry, according to RIC.
“THROUGH OUR 
SMART INDUSTRIAL 
OPERATING MODEL, 
WE’RE FLATTENING OUR 
ORGANIZATION. THIS 
NEW APPROACH GETS 
EVERYONE ENGAGED  
IN STRIVING TOWARD  
THE SAME GOALS.”
Jena Holtberg-Benge,
Manager, John Deere Reman Business
28DELIVERING RECORD 
VOLUMES AND A MORE  
DIVERSE WORKFORCE
Tony Rollin, factory manager, Augusta Works in Georgia, oversees 
production of John Deere’s compact utility tractors and utility tractors. 
He started in November 2017 , after seven years working for John Deere 
in Waterloo and Des Moines and 15 years in the automotive industry.  
“I believe in a diverse and collaborative team, and in my career I have 
had the opportunity to work with diverse high performing teams.”
When he joined Augusta Works, Rollin became its first Black factory 
manager. “Our workforce reflected the community in terms of our 
number of Black employees, but most were in entry-level positions.  
I think it is very important that leadership reflects the group they 
are leading, and I appreciate that John Deere values diversity in the 
workplace. We made great strides in attracting diverse leadership 
talent in the first 18 months and it is a privilege to lead this highly 
collaborative team.” During that first year after Rollin started,  
Augusta Works had a record year in volume, becoming the 
highest volume tractor factory within John Deere. That was 
followed by another record year in 2019 , and despite the 
pandemic, 2020 will also be among the top five years in  
sales volume. 
To manage the high volume, Rollin hired over 500 people  
during the first year, including employees from other John Deere 
locations to get a diverse perspective. “We’re becoming a very 
diverse group and working to improve diversity at all levels. As a 
result, we’re seeing improvements in overall profitability, which is 
a very big win for us. We couldn’t have done this without a highly 
collaborating team with a perspective of diversity.” 
Rollin is a proud member of John Deere’s Black Leadership 
Forum and Black Employee Resource Group, which support 
Black employees and educate allies. Following the death of 
George Floyd and the social unrest that followed, he and other 
leaders led conversations about this complex issue. He also sits 
on the Georgia Board of Manufacturers and works with other 
manufacturers in the community advocating for diversity.
“I VALUE DIVERSITY NOT BECAUSE I AM BLACK BUT 
BECAUSE I TRUL Y VALUE DIVERSE PERSPECTIVES 
AND AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE.”Tony Rollin, F actory Manager, Augusta Works, Georgia
29EMPLOYMENT
Through its support of youth served through 
organizations like the Thurgood Marshall College 
Fund, John Deere seeks to enhance the diversity 
of our workforce. The Thurgood Marshall 
College Fund is the nation’s largest organization 
exclusively representing publicly supported 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
(HBCUs) and Predominantly Black Institutions. 
Over its history, the Thurgood Marshall College 
Fund has awarded more than $300 million to its 
students and member schools.
Since 2014, John Deere has invested over $1 
million in the Thurgood Marshall College Fund. 
John Deere also proudly supports the Thurgood 
Marshall College Fund Leadership Institute, a 
national program intended to develop students’ 
leadership skills and provide students with access 
to businesses seeking their enormous talents.
Xylan Grant, an internal auditor for  
John Deere in Olathe, Kansas, is 
one of 41 people we have hired as 
an employee or intern through this 
prestigious institute: “Having the 
privilege of being in Washington D.C. 
with some of the top HBCU students in 
the country, and top companies in the 
country, and being able to tell my story 
in a room like that is nothing less than 
amazing and an honor to be a part of.” 
TO EQUITY STARTS  
AT THE TOP
John Deere is committed to eliminating the systemic 
inequities that have prevented generations of Black 
Americans and communities of color from having fair 
access to social and economic opportunities. Far too  
many have never had their chance to leap forward.
John Deere’s commitment starts at the very top of our 
organization. In 2020, our Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, John May, joined the CEOs of the country’s largest 
employers as part of the Business Roundtable to identify 
critical areas in which the business community must drive 
meaningful change.
EDUCATION
In 2013, the Business Roundtable challenged its members to 
help nonprofit organizations that had developed innovative 
programs that enhance educational outcomes, particularly for 
disadvantaged youth. One such nonprofit organization was 
MIND Research Institute, the creators of ST (Spatial-Temporal) 
Math, a a PreK-8 visual instructional program that leverages 
the brain’s innate spatial-temporal reasoning ability to solve 
mathematical problems. The John Deere Foundation has 
invested nearly $1.5 million in ST Math to make it available to 
more than 25,000 students in Iowa, Illinois, and North Carolina.
30Farmer Jon Jackson raises public awareness on the plight of small farmers 
and is the founder and operator of Comfort Farms in Milledgeville, Georgia. 
He started his farm to help fellow U.S. military veterans recover from  
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and other combat-related injuries.FINANCIAL
More than a century ago, Black farmers in America owned over 16 
million acres of land. Today, that number has fallen to 4.7 million 
acres. While there are many reasons for this decline, one of the 
most significant is the impact of “heirs’ property.” Without a will, 
landowner’s property would simply pass to their heirs, hence the 
term “heirs’ property.”
Many Black landowners have lost their land through costly land 
or tax disputes. For those who have kept their land, without clear 
title they remain unable to use their property as collateral to secure 
loans or credit to further develop their businesses. Upward of 60 
percent of Black farmers currently operate on heirs’ property.
To eliminate the barriers created by heirs’ property, in 2020  
John Deere joined with the National Black Growers Council  
and the Thurgood Marshall College Fund, to form a new coalition 
entitled LEAP (Legislation, Education, Advocacy, and Production 
Systems) in partnership with the Federation of Southern 
Cooperatives. One of the coalition’s primary goals is to partner  
with organizations like the Federation and others to bring 
awareness, additional resources and legal resources to help  
farmers gain clear title to their land.
(Opposite Page) ST Math is one of several John Deere Foundation-
funded programs dedicated to elementary school youth, including 
FIRST LEGO League and Project Lead The Way Launch.
HOUSING
Safe and affordable housing provides more than just a roof over 
a family’s head. Housing allows families to accumulate wealth, 
provides stability that strengthens educational success for children, 
and protects the health of those who live in the home.
Because of the proven impact of safe and affordable housing, the 
John Deere Foundation invested more than $500,000 in 2020 in 
Habitat for Humanity projects throughout its home communities. 
In its headquarters community, John Deere supported Habitat for 
Humanity Quad Cities with funding for new construction as well as 
emergency support for homeowners struggling through COVID-19 . 
Over its history, nearly 84 percent of the homes built by Habitat for 
Humanity Quad Cities are owned by families of color. 
John Deere employees also add their time, talent, and sweat 
to make safe and affordable housing more accessible to our 
neighbors. John Deere employees provided nearly 14,500 hours of 
volunteerism on Habitat for Humanity projects in 2019 and 2020. 
This produced an additional $250,000 in support for the Habitat for 
Humanity network through the John Deere Foundation’s Dollars  
for Doers program.
31LIVES AND LIVELIHOODS  
in the Balance
At the heart of the global food insecurity caused  
by COVID-19 are hundreds of millions of smallholder 
farmers in Africa and Asia. These farmers typically 
work with their families to grow crops on land no 
more than two hectares in size. In normal times, 
these farmers grow upward of 80 percent of food 
consumed in these regions. In tough times like now, 
they struggle to feed themselves and their loved 
ones, much less get their crops to market.
 
Because of the vital importance and vulnerability of 
the world’s smallholder farmers, John Deere invests 
in programs like Rayuwa in northern Nigeria. Rayuwa 
means “life” and “livelihood” in the Hausa language. 
Working with PYXERA Global, John Deere identified 
Nigeria as a place where we could make an immediate 
and sustained difference on the livelihoods of 
smallholder farmers and those they sustain.Today, Nigeria is home to more than 200 million 
people. Nigeria is also one of the youngest countries 
in the world with more than 40 percent of its 
population under 15 years of age. In 30 years, Nigeria 
is projected to double in size. In order for Nigeria to 
grow, so must its farmers.
 
Much like John Deere builds a stack of technologies 
to unlock value for our customers, we also build a 
stack of programs to enrich the lives of those we 
serve through our citizenship. In Rayuwa, we’ve 
stacked agronomic training, youth education, and
volunteerism. Together, these programs create the 
opportunity for more profitable farmers in the near 
term, more prosperous farm families in the near term, 
and a greater connection to our higher purpose for 
our employees.Nourishing Nigeria by supporting smallholder farmers
“COVID-19 is expected to worsen the overall 
prospects for food security and nutrition. 
Pockets of food insecurity may appear in 
countries and population groups that were 
not traditionally affected. A preliminary 
assessment suggests the pandemic may 
add between 83 and 132 million people to  
the total number of undernourished in  
the world in 2020.”
Source:  FAO, IFAD, UNICEF , WFP and WHO. 2020. The 
State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2020.
32FARMING AS A PATH TO PROSPERITY
Rayuwa’s first objective is to increase farmer profitability. 
Working daily with 2,500 farmers in 11 villages, Rayuwa staff 
established test plots to inspire and engage them. Rayuwa 
staff shared new agricultural practices, including planting 
techniques, fertilization, and crop protection. One of the tests 
also involved hybrid seeds, which improved yields in some 
cases by nearly 200 percent.
 
For the 2020 planting season, Rayuwa helped farmers like 
Mallam Surajo access credit to purchase these kinds of 
improved inputs. “Even though things became so difficult 
during the pandemic, Rayuwa helped us arrange purchases of 
quality fertilizers, improved seeds, and agrochemicals on credit 
with a bank guarantee,” says Surajo. Despite surging extreme 
poverty throughout much of Nigeria, Rayuwa’s farmers 
increased their total earnings by nearly $1.3 million in 2020.
“I am now able to cultivate more of my land and get very  
good crop yields because of the work of the Rayuwa team,” 
says farmer Mallam Surajo. “Before last year’s planting in 2019 , 
they trained us in better ways of farming including how to plant 
seeds and how to apply fertilizers, and at harvest we saw how 
well these new practices improved yield.”
Prevalence of undernourishment (percentage)Number of undernourished (millions)12.6%
8.6% 8.9% 8.9%825.6
628.9678.1687.8
0%5%10%15%20%
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
MILLIONSPERCENTAG E
YEAR S...02505007501 000
841.4
9.8%THE NUMBER OF UNDERNOURISHED PEOPLE IN THE WORLD CONTINUED TO INCREASE IN 2019 .
Source:  FAO, IFAD, UNICEF , WFP and WHO. 2020. The State of Food 
Security and Nutrition in the World 2020.2019 2030
33SECURING FARMING’S FUTURE 
Rayuwa’s second objective is to improve the educational attainment of 
4,000 village youth. Access to high-quality education inspires profitable 
farmers to send their children to school. Empowered by a good education, 
these children can become even better farmers when they grow up and 
enter the family business. As a result of Rayuwa’s innovative education 
programs, including a home-based model developed in the midst of 
COVID-19 , youth earning top scores in letter and number recognition 
increased by 60 percent and 77 percent respectively, with a projected 
increase in lifetime earnings through better education topping $1.9 million.
“Rayuwa has brought a lot of improvement in my children’s 
education,” says Ibrahim Isiyaku. “Our teachers have benefited 
from the Rayuwa team and it reflects in what we now see in 
our children. Reading has improved so much, and they are also 
learning to speak and read simple English.”
Teaching even continued during the pandemic. The Rayuwa 
team provided Community Education Workers in the village with 
mobile phones so they could remain in contact with the Rayuwa 
education experts. This enabled them to continue providing 
limited home-based lessons to village children. “COVID-19 has 
had a lot of negative impacts, but here we count our blessings,” 
notes Ibrahim. “We are grateful that none of Rayuwa’s support to 
our farms and our children fully stopped during the lockdown.”
34MAKING IT PERSONAL
Rayuwa’s third objective is to engage John Deere volunteers. 
In October 2019 , a group of John Deere volunteers traveled 
to Rayuwa to help in the program’s launch. The impact of this 
experience for John Deere’s volunteers is best summed up by  
Jean Elloh, Divisional Sales Manager:
“For me, it was a privilege to have been part of the 
Rayuwa volunteer experience. Beyond contributing 
toward a project that aims to transform lives, from a 
personal standpoint, the experience reminded me of 
what I will call ‘my unique journey.’ Hearing the plights 
of the families in communities we visited took me back 
into time. I could identify with all the challenges the 
communities recounted.
The volunteer program afforded me the opportunity  
to contribute to improving livelihoods, to connect with 
nature through maize and rice harvesting experiences, 
and to bond with fellow volunteers, including the  
on-ground Rayuwa project team as well as the PYXERA 
Global team. It’s an awesome feeling to belong to a 
company that is committed to farmers regardless of 
their backgrounds.”
35with InnovationLOWERING IMPACTS
To see more of the story, 
visit youtube.com/watch?v=edhZn48RZJc
ENVIRONMENTALAt John Deere, we rise to the challenge of what others 
might deem the most difficult tasks. It is our pursuit of 
new technologies, including specifically electrification, 
that holds the promise of revolutionizing agriculture  
and construction. 
We see electrification as a critical technology for 
enabling two key accelerations on our technology 
journey: (1) providing a more efficient and stable power 
source to implements, and (2) enabling the operation 
of the precision components on our machines. For 
example, precision components on our industry-leading 
ExactEmerge™ planters are enabled by electrification. 
Each row unit of our ExactEmerge planter is equipped 
with dual electric drive motors, a critical component of 
enabling optimized seed placement while allowing our 
customers to continue to operate at high speeds. 
Similarly, this year we announced a significant 
advancement in our use of electrification as a power 
management source through the release of our 
revolutionary eIVT (electro-mechanical infinitely 
variable transmission) technology, also known as 
eAutoPowr, which delivers more fuel efficiency and 
added off-board power from our tractors. Our previous 
version of IVT technology, introduced in 2001, utilized a 
hydraulic-mechanical transmission, which had long been 
considered state of the art technology. Until now.
Our new eIVT improves upon our existing IVT technology 
by replacing the traditional hydraulic modules with more 
efficient and durable electric drives. Brushless electric motors and solid-state power electronics increase 
reliability. Plus eIVT, with its inherent electrification, 
enables both on- and off-board tractor and implement 
electrification, so implements do not need their own 
power electronics. Due to its efficiency in delivering 
power to implements, the eIVT is expected to deliver 
greater operating efficiency than the hydraulic IVT. 
The eIVT will be available as an option on our completely 
new and industry-first 8RX four-track tractors. The track 
system on the 8RX tractors provides a larger contact 
area with the soil, thus reducing ground pressure and 
slippage. Layering eIVT technology onto our 8RX 
tractor provides the capability for a more consistent 
and more efficient power source by using electrification 
to provide additional traction for the tractor as well as 
implements. Taken together, the reduced soil compaction 
and disturbance from the 8RX track system, and the 
efficiency and power from the eIVT, will offer a more 
sustainable solution — a lighter footprint on the soil 
and reduced fuel usage — to executing the various 
production steps, while at the same time adding 
productivity gains.
The eIVT transmission is so revolutionary that it was 
the only product to receive the coveted Gold Medal 
Innovation Award at the 2019 Agritechnica Show,  
where it was unveiled.
37PRODUCT  
SUSTAINABILITY
ENVIRONMENTALOur 2022 Product Sustainability goal includes a goal to reduce 
the environmental impact, including CO2 equivalent emissions, 
of 90 percent of our new product programs with a baseline  
of 2017 . In 2019 , 53 percent of our new product programs  
had lower environmental impacts. That number increased  
to 67 percent in 2020.
Our products, services and solutions are designed to increase our 
customers’ efficiency and productivity. By truly understanding 
our customers’ needs and incorporating innovative technology, 
we’re able to offer machines and technology solutions that 
are not only more productive and efficient, but also minimize 
impact on the environment. “Product Sustainability,” as we 
refer to it, is one of the best ways to offer lasting value to our 
customers, our employees, our business, and our world.
DESIGN FOR ENVIRONMENT
Our Design for Environment process considers all 
environmental aspects in the development of our products 
through the entire life cycle, including energy and supply 
chain impact. The process improves product performance by 
minimizing the environmental impact, for example, through 
better fuel economy or remanufacturing opportunities.Every day, John Deere invests approximately 
$4 million in research and development, 
with a growing emphasis on innovating 
productive, precise, and reliable automated 
machines that actively learn and adapt with 
our customers.
38Through our Design for Environment process, we 
improve productivity, enhance fuel efficiency, reduce 
material usage, increase use of more environmentally 
friendly materials, and design for remanufacturing.  
For example, John Deere’s products use various 
recyclable, renewable and recycled materials that 
provide many benefits, including weight reduction, 
which, in turn, can reduce fuel consumption and/or 
increase payloads or capacity. Plastics can improve 
durability in exteriors, fuel consumption, and corrosion 
and wear applications while reducing the cost of 
components as well as reducing environmental impact 
by eliminating paint through molded-in color. 
John Deere continues to partner with external 
organizations and governments to further develop 
more recyclable, renewable, and recycled materials. 
John Deere is a member of the Center for Bioplastics 
and Biocomposites (CB2). CB2 is a National Science 
Foundation Industry & University Cooperative 
Research Center that focuses on developing high-
value biobased products from agricultural and 
forestry feedstocks. Through this industry and 
academia partnership, we are striving to advance 
more sustainable materials for use in our products. 
John Deere is also a member of the PLASTICS Industry 
Association working with the full supply chain to drive 
sustainability through communications, advocacy,  
and industry projects.LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT 
To bring Design for Environment to life, we use a Life 
Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology to measure and 
quantify the environmental footprint for a product 
during its entire life cycle. We assess all phases of a 
product’s life, from raw materials and manufacturing 
to disposal at end-of-life, all while quantifying the 
impact. This establishes a baseline from which to 
improve and helps engineers design new products 
that increase efficiency through informed decision 
making. John Deere is a member of the American 
Center for Life Cycle Assessment (ACLCA), the premier 
LCA conference in the US, and serves on the Industry 
Committee for ACLCA.
Usage is the predominant phase in product-level LCA 
because of the environmental impact of long product 
life and fuel burn. A design challenge might be, for 
example, how to do more work while burning the same 
or less fuel. To give a real-world example illustrating our 
efforts to lead environmental stewardship, over the past 
decade, integrating electrified components into our 
equipment moved from theory to our development labs 
and assembly lines. This technology helps improve fuel 
economy and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT  
PHASE CONSIDERATIONS 
– Raw Materials & Manufacturing:  Using enviro-
friendly resources, including renewable, recycled, 
and remanufactured; assembling and shipping with 
greater efficiency and less consumption
– Maintenance:  Increasing wear life  
and maintenance intervals 
– Usage:  Maximizing product fuel efficiency, 
productivity, and other key operating factors
– End of Life:  Designing products for longevity and 
recyclability at the end of useful life
END OF LIFE
MAINTENANCE USAGERAW MATERIALS &  
MANUFACTURING
ENVIRONMENTAL
EXAMPLES OF SUSTAINABLE  
MATERIALS INCLUDE:
– Recycled Bottles:  Headliners in the Gator cab 
(XUV R-series released in 2018) contain PET 
(polyethylene terephthalate), sourced from 
recycled bottles. 
– Polypropylene Glass and Nylon:  The front grille 
skeletons used in our riding lawn tractor product 
line are constructed with a post-industrial PP 
(polypropylene) glass-filled material, and the 
hood hinge is built from an industrial reprocessed 
nylon material.
– Soy:  Soy-based foam seats that were introduced 
in 2020 for the new 8 Series Tractors and the new 
X9 Combine. 
39In 2020, our 8RX Tractor won two of the oldest and 
most prestigious industrial awards for excellent product 
design — the Red Dot Award and iF Design Award for 
Discipline Product. The tractor was also a 2020 Tech  
for a Better World Honoree at the Consumer Electronics 
Show and was named the Sustainability Product of  
the Y ear by the Business Intelligence Group.We developed the 8RX Tractor to address key customer 
pain points — optimizing soil protection and preserving 
soil quality without sacrificing efficiency. The tractor’s 
four tracks have more surface area and a stronger grip 
than a wheel or two-track tractor to prevent slipping. 
The tractor design enables farmers to cover a 40 
percent larger area while reducing the impact on the  
soil by 30 percent. This means less soil compaction, 
which can deter plant establishment and growth,  
and reduced water run-off and erosion, allowing soil 
to retain more air, water, and nutrients and make those 
available to plants. 
Our 8RX is also designed to help farmers do their job 
more precisely and productively despite an increasingly 
shrinking pool of skilled operators. From 2005 to 2019 , 
agricultural employment decreased 11 percent. Critical 
to meeting this challenge is delivering groundbreaking 
innovations that allow less-skilled operators to achieve 
optimal performance. 
The 8RX includes advanced automation features, 
with over 200 integrated sensors and cameras, and 
advanced self-driving capabilities. These and other 
features make the 8RX easier to operate, which 
enables less experienced operators to optimally 
operate the machine, helping produce more to  
feed a growing population. Even skilled farmers benefit from the 8RX, which 
allows them to turn their attention from steering or 
controlling an implement to making the adjustments 
and agronomic decisions necessary to improve 
productivity and sustainability. 
All operators will benefit from reduced fatigue.  
The spacious, comfortable cab offers more  
headroom and a smooth, quiet ride, along with 
two times the LED lighting for bright, 360-degree 
illumination of the field.MINIMIZING SOIL IMPACT,
MAXIMIZING GLOBAL IMPACT
ENVIRONMENTAL
To see more of the story, 
visit news.johndeerestories.com/8rx-tractor-  
recognized-for-its-contributions-to-sustainability/
40ASSESSING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS  
WITH A PRODUCTION SYSTEMS LENS
With the transition to our Smart Industrial Operating 
Model, we continue to shift our work from product-
level Life Cycle Assessments to production-system 
LCAs. Production-system LCAs provide insights into the 
environmental impact of producing a bushel of a given 
crop. These insights help drive innovation to reduce 
the production system’s overall footprint. More than 27 
different operations were analyzed for the corn production 
system and indicated that fertilizer has the 
most environmental impact. 
By focusing on these areas, we can design equipment and 
technology to reduce total fertilizer rate, while maintaining 
or increasing yield. An example is ExactRate™, a factory-
installed fertilizer system that precisely monitors and controls 
the application of liquid fertilizer during planting. Other 
examples include the ExactEmerge™ performance upgrade 
that improves the speed and accuracy of planters, and 
MaxEmerge™ 5e, an upgraded seed meter with an electric 
drive that delivers improved accuracy and performance.
John Deere is a member of Field to Market, an organization 
that unites the supply chain to deliver sustainable outcomes 
for agriculture. With Field to Market, we assisted with the 
development of the Fieldprint® platform, an assessment 
framework that measures the environmental impact of 
commodity crop products during the life cycle and identifies 
opportunities for continuous improvement.
JOHN DEERE PRECISION FARM TECHNOLOGIES PROMOTE 
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE IN BRAZIL
Brazil is among the most important food producers, helping feed the 
world’s ever-increasing population. For 15 years, John Deere has been 
actively supporting the Integrated Crop-Livestock-Forest (ICLF) system 
in Brazil. The system allows different cultivation modalities, when 
integrated in the same area, to minimize risks to the farmer, enrich local 
biodiversity, and improve fertility and land use. ICLF increases productivity 
while benefiting the environment by recovering degraded areas and 
sequestering carbon. 
In 2020, credit lines for farmers who adopt the ICLF system were 
announced, a historic milestone in Brazilian sustainable agriculture. Funds 
for these lines can be obtained through SAFF (Sustainable Agriculture 
Finance Facility), a financial mechanism established by the ICLF Network. 
SAFF was one of the projects selected in 2020 by the Global Innovation 
Lab for Climate Finance, a program to mobilize resources for sustainable 
development in emerging markets. Beginning in 2021, approximately 
$62 million will be available for farmers in the first year. Certified rural 
properties will be able to use funds to purchase agricultural machinery. 
John Deere Brazil is integrating ICLF certification with John Deere 
precision farming technologies to help encourage sustainable agriculture 
production. Data analysis from John Deere machines will be integrated 
with TrustScore, a system for certifying rural properties and ensuring 
access to the credit lines. Customers will be able to share operation and 
agronomic data using the John Deere Operations Center, John Deere’s  
 fleet management system. This will enable farmers to provide data 
directly to TrustScore to ensure compliance with goals and criteria 
established for certification. This will also allow farmers to view the entire 
crop cycle, from soil preparation to harvest, helping them plan work 
efficiently, reduce fuel use, and intelligently manage inputs.TRACTOR
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
CORN PRODUCTION SYSTEM
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Seed
Equipment
Drying
Pesticides & Herbicides
Transport
Fertilizer
ENVIRONMENTALRaw Materials  
& Manufacturing
Maintenance 
End of Life
Usage
41ENVIRONMENTALREMANUFACTURING
Our 2022 Product Sustainability goal includes a goal to 
increase remanufacturing revenue by 30 percent from our 
baseline year of 2017 . In 2019 , we had achieved a 10.0 percent 
increase in remanufacturing revenue. That number decreased 
to 8.9 percent in 2020.
Remanufacturing reduces John Deere’s impact on the 
environment by reducing raw material through the reuse  
of parts, or what we call core. This enables us to eliminate 
waste and reduce energy use compared to manufacturing  
new parts. By bringing parts back to the original specification 
our John Deere REMAN business provides quality 
remanufactured products and electronics to agricultural, 
construction, and forestry customers at a lower price point 
than new parts and provides alternatives to customers  
looking for value and uptime.
Over the last two decades, our John Deere REMAN business 
has seen strong business growth, with 25 percent of 
REMAN revenues now derived from sales in markets outside 
of the United States and Canada. Customer acceptance 
of remanufactured parts continues to grow, and the 
environmental message associated with remanufacturing  
is resonating on a global basis. 
Our John Deere REMAN business is also focused on 
continuous improvement and looking to the future.  
Our REMAN engineers have higher levels of engagement 
with new product design centers implementing “design for 
remanufacturing” into the original new product designs.  
Our operations teams have a heightened focus on improving 
core utilization using data and analytics to identify 
opportunities to better qualify core and improve core 
usage, thereby reducing the use of new parts content, 
reducing material spend and energy consumption. REMAN 
has recently found success in expanding their traditional 
business to include a Repair & Return business model in 
which a customer-owned unit is sent in, repaired, and 
returned back to the same customer. This new Repair & 
Return solution for electronic components is the fastest 
growing segment of our REMAN business.
John Deere is dedicated to the advancement of the 
remanufacturing industry. John Deere REMAN participates 
with the Reman Industries Council to promote standardization 
within the industry, addressing common challenges by 
remanufacturing organizations. The John Deere REMAN 
organization is working with REMADE, a DOE (Department 
of Energy) funded institute that brings together industry, 
educational institutions, and national labs to accelerate 
solutions for recycling and remanufacturing.
42ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABLE   
ENERGY USE
As part of our 2022 Sustainability Goals, we have 
committed to reducing our absolute GHG emissions 
by 15 percent from our baseline of 2017 through 
the utilization of at least 50 percent renewable 
electricity. In 2019 , we had achieved a 3 percent 
reduction in GHG emissions and 25 percent 
renewable electricity. In 2020, those numbers  
rose to 19 percent and 32 percent, respectively.
We are delivering on our sustainability 
commitments with financially sound projects 
in several ways. Our onsite renewable projects 
at several locations provide clear positive 
environmental impact. We also partner externally with utilities, infrastructure policy organizations, 
and suppliers for offsite projects — these deliver 
an even larger economy and scale. And of course, 
efficiency is our first objective, everywhere.
It is our goal to identify priority energy-efficiency 
projects, and we may perform kaizen-type events 
to identify low-to no-cost projects to save energy 
and water. At many sites, we have established 
dedicated energy teams — multi-disciplinary groups 
who are responsible for analyzing baseline energy 
usage at their site, reviewing environmental and 
energy use factors, establishing goals that will 
help us achieve our company-wide climate and 
energy commitments, and creating and completing 
necessary projects. 
This year we partnered with Clearway 
Energy Group in Texas and the Mesquite Sky 
Wind project.  The virtual power purchase 
agreement (VPPA) is for approximately 109 
megawatts of this new renewable resource.  
When operation begins in 2021, John Deere’s 
portion of the wind project will address more 
than 25% of our global electricity footprint, 
or the equivalent of the electricity needed to 
power more than 30,000 U.S. homes on an 
annual basis.
43Our current Water goal is to implement water Best 
Management Practices in all our water-scarce locations. 
In 2019 , 21 percent of the best management practices 
have been implemented at our water-scarce facilities.  
That number increased to 29 percent for 2020.
Water is a vital component of our global manufacturing 
operations. For example, water is crucial to ensuring 
that the multi-step process of painting our equipment 
ultimately results in the iconic green and yellow 
machines that our customers expect. Therefore, it is 
critical that we manage our manufacturing processes  
in water-efficient manner. Areas faced with the 
potential for water scarcity are our main priority. 
Geographic areas are determined to be “water-scarce” 
based on factors such as baseline water stress, access 
to water, groundwater stress, future water stress,  
and upstream storage of water.
Using the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water 
Risk Atlas tool, 19 John Deere manufacturing sites 
were determined to be in areas of water scarcity, 
mainly in Mexico, India, and China.* Pursuant to our 
commitment to achieve our 2022 Sustainability Goals, 
our manufacturing sites in these areas must implement 
applicable Best Management Practices by the end  of 2022. The required water Best Management  
Practices for each location may be different. These 
Best Management Practices may include actions like: 
site-specific water management strategies, employee 
education and awareness programs, incorporation of 
water-efficient equipment, leak-management plans,  
and water-reuse programs. Site-specific water 
management strategies determine current water 
consumptions and discharges, identify opportunities 
to reduce wasted water, guide water-focused goals, 
and establish a budget for water efficiency projects. 
Education and awareness programs encourage employee 
involvement in using water efficiently. Water-efficient 
equipment may be utilized in water-intensive areas, such 
as in a paint line or cooling towers. Leak management 
plans provide clearly defined processes for identifying 
and repairing leaks within the facility. Water-reuse 
programs are a way that facilities determine if specific 
water discharges are feasible to reuse in another process 
before being discharged.
Even though our goal is focused on water-scarce 
locations, our commitment to using water responsibly  
is a critical part of the way we operate all our global 
facilities. These facilities are also required to, at a 
minimum, develop a water management strategy and 
develop and implement an employee engagement  
and awareness campaign. Water management strategies 
are reviewed and updated annually. USE WATER  RESPONSIBL Y
ENVIRONMENTAL
*Excluding recent acquisitions
44Our current Recycling goal aims to recycle 85 percent 
of our waste from operations by 2022. In 2019 and 
2020, 78 percent of our waste was recycled. 
We continue to increase recycling within our 
facilities. We also encourage activities such as the 
use of returnable containers to mitigate waste. 
Facilities operate their own waste management 
programs that provide guidance for how to comply 
with waste management requirements while 
increasing recycling. Our employees work to separate 
waste from recyclables in our facilities. Once waste 
and recyclables are generated, our facilities work 
with approved suppliers to ensure they are recycled 
or reused. We have processes in place to monitor our 
suppliers in this regard to ensure that we know where 
our waste and recyclables are ending up.  
If issues are identified with the supplier through the 
John Deere supplier audit process, corrective actions 
are taken appropriate to risk, including switching 
suppliers if appropriate.One of the largest leftovers of the manufacturing 
process is steel. Steel and scrap metal are not 
included within our waste reporting because they 
are commodities with established markets and 
associated economic value. Therefore, we recycle 
these materials through the resale process. 
When including steel and scrap metal into the 
equation, the overall recycled content within our 
operations is much higher than the percentage 
reflected in our goals. Ultimately, our goals reflect 
our commitment to finding viable avenues for 
recycling types of waste content that do not 
necessarily have a clear avenue toward reuse.INCREASE  RECYCLING
ENVIRONMENTALAt the Nagpur Parts Distribution Center,  
India, the packaging team developed a way  
to reduce the use of plastic packaging. Plastic 
air pouches were originally used in packages 
shipped to customers. The team innovated 
by reusing what was to be scrap corrugated 
cardboard and modifying that cardboard 
to be shredded. The shredded corrugated 
cardboard is reused as cushioning and void 
filler material in packages to customers. 
Approximately 70 kilograms of corrugated 
cardboard scrap is shredded daily. Since 2019 , 
over 50 tons of corrugated scrap cardboard 
has been reused as corrugated cardboard 
shredding pads.
45In the wake of COVID-19 , access to 
adequate food became a desperate 
challenge around the world, including 
for many in our home communities. 
With food insecurity on the rise for 
our employees, customers, and their 
families and neighbors, John Deere and 
our workforce did what we have always 
done–we worked with local food banks 
and other organizations to deliver food 
to those in need.During a PandemicBATTLING FOOD INSECURITY
INDIA
John Deere delivered over 3,500 kits 
containing rice, wheat flour, cooking 
oil, a dry ration packet, and food kit 
with ready to eat snacks, along with 
masks, sanitizer, and soap. Together, 
these kits provided more than 13,000 
people with food and support for 
more than a month during the 
country’s intensive lockdown.
MEXICO
John Deere distributed over 350 
food kits, 835 lunches, and other 
essential items to vital institutions and 
organizations serving those in greatest 
need and at risk during the pandemic, 
including the elderly.“ Almost certainly the first essential 
component of social justice is adequate 
food for all mankind. Food is the moral 
right of all who are born into this world.”
DR. NORMAN BORLAUG , Nobel Prize winning agronomist 
and major contributor to the Green Revolution
BRAZIL
John Deere and its employees joined 
forces to donate over 13,000 food 
baskets totaling nearly 160 tons of 
food throughout our communities. 
Distributed across almost 90 
vulnerable neighborhoods, 
these baskets helped nourish 
approximately 10,000 people in the 
midst of the pandemic.
SOCIAL
350 Food Kits 
+ 835 Lunches
distributedProvided over 
13,000 people with 
food and supportHelped nourish 
approximately 
10,000 people
47SMART CITIZENSHIP
Guided by our reinvented operating model and reinvigorated 
higher purpose, John Deere’s citizenship strategy becomes 
even stronger. At the very heart of our citizenship work,  
we share the same focus on concepts like production systems, 
technology stacks, and lifecycle solutions, all with the goal 
of creating an impact on the lives for those we serve. Armed 
with this new focus and higher purpose, we can ensure 
that all of our efforts — be they financial investments or 
volunteer activities — not only have an impact, but also create 
opportunities for our neighbors, communities, and others to 
truly leap forward.
FROM PRODUCTION SYSTEMS TO  
EMPOWERMENT SYSTEMS
Evaluating a customer’s production system helps us find 
opportunities to unlock economic value. To do this we must 
first deeply understand the customer’s goals and every step 
they take in their work to make their goals a reality. Since 1948, 
the John Deere Foundation has worked to understand the 
aspirations and lives of those it serves throughout our home 
communities and the world. Ultimately the goal is addressing 
the most pressing needs and finding the greatest opportunities 
to create social, economic, and environmental value.
In 2020, the John Deere Foundation enhanced its focus 
on youth, their families, and caregivers in our home 
communities. COVID-19 revealed how fragile the support 
systems are for many families as they simply strive to go to 
school, care for children, and go to work. The John Deere 
Foundation proudly invested in those organizations best positioned to strengthen this multi-generational system, 
including a $1.2 million grant to support YWCA Quad Cities 
in constructing a new state-of-the-art facility. This helps 
expand childcare services and create career pathways for 
the most vulnerable families in John Deere’s headquarters 
community. 
STACKING CITIZENSHIP FOR GREATER IMPACT
Integrating different technologies into our core equipment 
platforms can create greater value for customers. That’s the 
core belief behind our cutting-edge work in building our 
technology stack. This belief also holds true for John Deere’s 
citizenship strategy. Guided by the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals, John Deere established the elimination of 
poverty, eradication of hunger, provision of quality education, 
and the creation of stronger partnerships as its core citizenship 
platforms. Upon these platforms, John Deere works with skilled 
nonprofit organizations around the world to build the best 
stack of programs with the people we serve.
There is no better example for John Deere of the power of 
stacking citizenship interventions than John Deere India’s 
Samruddhi program. The program, now in its sixth year,  
is a joint initiative between John Deere and the Centre for 
Advanced Research and Development (CARD). Samruddhi 
blends agronomic training, youth education, water and 
sanitation, and other interventions to create the greatest  
and most sustainable impact in these communities. Because 
of Samruddhi, John Deere was featured by Bloomberg in 2020 
as one of 50 Sustainability & Climate Leaders.
SOCIAL
The name of John Deere India’s flagship citizenship program is “Samruddhi,”  
a Hindi word that means prosperity. Consistent with its name, this project 
improves food security by promoting more productive agricultural techniques.  
At the same time, Samruddhi complements its agricultural work with better 
access to quality education for youth.
John Deere currently implements Samruddhi in Dewas, Sirhind, Nagpur, 
and Pune. Farmers in these communities used to rely heavily on traditional 
agriculture, and they were reluctant to adopt new technologies and methods. 
Working directly with farmers, John Deere helped demonstrate new processes, 
including the use of micro-nutrients, drip irrigation, mulching, and bio-fertilizers. 
These new processes brought bigger yields while saving water and other inputs. 
Because of Samruddhi, over 14,000 farmers are now able to provide more food 
for their families and communities and become more profitable. And almost 
23,000 youth have been exposed to new education programs that will allow  
for benefits well into the future.PROSPERITY THROUGH PARTNERSHIP
48Turning Trash into Treasure
Working side-by-side with Chad Pregracke and his team from 
Living Lands & Waters, nearly 250 employees from John Deere 
Horicon Works made a difference in early 2020. They took one 
semitrailer filled with trash pulled from the Ohio River and turned 
it into 2,000 pounds of recyclable materials saved from landfills. 
Volunteers spent three hours painstakingly combing through the 
trash to remove one ton of recyclable plastics and cardboard. 
John Deere is a longtime partner with Living Lands and Waters,  
an organization dedicated to river cleanups, watershed conservation 
initiatives, tree plantings, and environmental education. John Deere 
provides more than financial and equipment support to Living Lands 
& Waters — we provide our people who help make conservation and 
recycling part of their own lifecycles. 
SOCIAL
John Deere is committed to investing in our citizenship 
work at least 1 percent of our net income based on our 
previous three-year average performance. 
John Deere employees will record at least 1 
million hours of volunteerism from  
2017 through 2022.US$37 .8M
215,262 HOURS
123,033 HOURSUS$36.7M1.9% of our net income invested in 2019
recorded by John Deere employees in 2019
recorded by John Deere employees in 20201.4% of our net income invested in 2020
49WORKPLACE HEALTH 
AND SAFETY
Our 2022 Sustainability Goals include a goal to 
achieve safety excellence through increased focus 
on leading indicators, risk reduction, health & safety 
management systems, and prevention.
We made significant progress toward achieving our 
goals during 2020 through the launch of strategic 
initiatives associated with our management 
systems, ergonomics, and the introduction of a 
Safety Balanced Scorecard. The balanced scorecard 
includes leading and lagging indicators and is 
designed to enable continuous measurement 
of safety performance and drive continuous 
improvement. 
Leading Indicators include injury/illness corrective 
action closure rates, near-miss corrective action 
closure rates, and risk reduction from Safety and 
Ergonomic Risk Assessment (SERA) projects. 
Lagging Indicators include total recordable incident 
rate, ergonomic recordable case rate, and near-miss 
rate. 
Our Leading Indicators are tracked by most of our 
manufacturing facilities and internally reported. At 
a high level, the corrective action closure metrics 
measure how long it takes for a corrective action 
to be implemented after an injury or near-miss 
incident. The SERA program is a preventative 
program focused on risk identification and 
reduction through corrective action.  Continuous 
Improvement teams, along with safety professionals 
and unit staff identify safety and ergonomic risks which can be reduced or eliminated through a 
corresponding project or improvement. These may 
include physical changes to the work environment, 
sustainable process changes, or product design 
improvements. Each project is scored based on 
various elements of risk and each manufacturing 
unit has an annual risk-reduction goal. By focusing 
our efforts on these critical forward-looking 
solutions that address and prevent potential for 
injury, we are driving toward safer facilities and 
conditions for our employees.
One reason our employees are safe on the job is the 
company’s attention to ergonomics — the practice 
of designing work and workstations to reduce health 
issues caused by overuse of muscles, incorrect 
posture, and repetitive tasks. We are committed to 
delivering world-class ergonomics by proactively 
integrating ergonomics principles and practices into 
business processes. To this end, we have established 
requirements that our John Deere manufacturing 
units should utilize when implementing an 
ergonomics program.*
Our commitment to health and safety goes beyond 
the workplace, and we are mindful of the employee’s 
health and welfare off the job. Through health 
assessments, training, and support, we are trying 
to enhance the wellness of our employees. We are 
beginning work with early intervention programs 
such as industrial athlete training, job conditioning, 
and physical therapy programs.
SOCIAL
*Excluding recent acquisitions and leases
50IMPROVING SAFETY AND ERGONOMICS AT OUR 
MELBOURNE REGIONAL PARTS DISTRIBUTION CENTER
Poor ergonomics is a major contributor to manufacturing 
workplace injuries. Repetitive motions and incorrect 
movements can cause injuries that occur in an instant or over 
weeks, resulting in unnecessary and unwanted lost time. 
John Deere Limited in Melbourne, Australia, uses the 
SoterSpine™ ergonomics system to help correct — in real-
time — movements that could lead to injury. The regional 
parts distribution center (RDC) was tracking first aid 
injuries at the facility and noted many were strain-related. 
Data analysis from the past three years had shown that 
approximately 50 percent of all injuries were strains, which 
made up 50 percent of the OSHA reportable incidents for 
each year. Complacency and improper manual handling 
techniques needed to be addressed.
SoterSpine is a wearable device that clips to the back 
collar of an employee’s shirt or vest and beeps for audible 
reminders, while also sending data to linked devices. An app 
on any mobile device can receive information based on the 
employee’s musculoskeletal movements throughout the day.
If an employee bends at the waist instead of squatting and 
using their legs to lift a box, SoterSpine will alert them 
before the action takes place. If an employee is working in one place and moving the same over and over, SoterSpine 
captures that information, analyzes it, and then sends it  
to that employee’s smartphone or tablet. The feedback  
is immediate.
“It’s not a tracking device of any sort,” says Aaron Russell, 
RDC manager. “It simply measures at-risk movements by the 
employee so the individual can see results and go through 
personalized recommendations on how to reduce risk.” 
The goal is to have all employees go through the two-week 
program twice a year. 
Strain injuries have shown a steady decline and analytics 
were able to identify high-risk jobs and high-risk times of 
day. Employees really make an effort to reduce their risk 
rate, with some achieving over an 80 percent reduction in 
at-risk movements for their 10-day cycle.
The project earned Melbourne  
a John Deere 2020 Safeguarding 
Award for Proactive Risk Reduction.
SOCIAL“It simply measures at-risk movements by the employee so 
the individual can see results and go through personalized 
recommendations on how to reduce risk.”
Aaron Russell, RDC manager , John Deere Limited in Melbourne, Australia
51CULTIVATING A
Culture of Innovators
At John Deere, innovation is everywhere and  
no place more evident than on the factory floor. 
Every day our people identify improvements that 
help us deliver the highest quality products to 
our customers.
Innovation has been one of our company’s core 
values since our founding in 1837 . At John Deere, 
we know that innovation cannot exist without our 
people. In order to unlock value for our customers, 
we must unleash the innovative potential of our 
entire workforce.
Cultivating innovation starts with tapping 
into workers’ expertise and insights, which 
is why John Deere adopted its Continuous 
Improvement (CI) process 20 years ago. Since 
that time, the CI process has empowered and incentivized our workforce to innovate safer 
factories, better quality products, and more 
cost-effective processes. This has helped foster 
and enable a more appreciated, valued, and 
secure workforce.
Our CI process embodies what innovation has 
meant to our company for nearly two centuries 
– that an individual with a good idea can make 
something better. The CI process begins with 
message boards at John Deere factories, where 
workers can share ideas that improve safety, 
quality, or efficiency. Immediate follow-up 
encourages participation. Generally within 48 
hours, each idea is vetted and discussed with 
the worker. A team then proposes, tests, and 
implements a solution, when appropriate.
SOCIAL
52John Deere was named by Fast 
Company  as one of its 2020 
Best Workplaces for InnovatorsThe CI process fosters a workplace culture 
in which employees feel empowered 
to innovate by doing two vital things 
– financially rewarding employees with 
bonus pay and publicly thanking them 
for their accomplishments. In recognition 
for John Deere’s long efforts to cultivate 
a culture of innovation, John Deere was 
named by Fast Company  as one of its 2020 
Best Workplaces for Innovators.
As a result of the value created through 
CI, we’ve made significant investment in 
our factories over the last two decades. 
That’s an investment in our people and our 
future success. Through CI, we will continue 
to come up with ideas that lead to the 
development of innovative products we 
haven’t even imagined yet.Innovation has been one of 
our company’s core values 
since our founding in 1837 . 
At John Deere, we know 
that innovation cannot 
exist without our people. In 
order to unlock value for our 
customers, we must unleash 
the innovative potential of 
our entire workforce.
SOCIAL
To see more of the story, 
visit news.johndeerestories.com/
continuous-improvements-make-
a-big-impact/
53Talent
To compete in dynamic world markets, John Deere must have a global workforce that is 
unwavering in its commitment to deliver outstanding value. It must also be flexible in adjusting 
to the changing needs of the business. For us to succeed, we must attract the right talent, 
develop them professionally and personally, and retain our employees to meet current and 
future business needs. We see our employees — at every level of the company and regardless  
of role — as our most valuable asset.
To attract talent, John Deere offers competitive 
compensation and non-financial benefits everywhere 
we operate. These benefits are tailored to the specific 
market and are affordable for the company and its 
employees. 
The non-compensation benefits we offer focus on all 
aspects of employee well-being, including financial, 
physical, social, community, and career. John Deere 
subsidizes daycare providers in some communities 
to help employees secure quality childcare. Through 
our Healthy Directions initiative, we have introduced 
programs and resources to help U.S. salaried 
employees focus on their health and well-being.  Some larger facilities have fitness centers onsite. 
In the U.S., a Financial Wellness program is 
offered to support employees through a variety of 
financial situations including budgeting, identity 
protection, savings and retirement planning. Many 
of our locations have retirement plans ranging from 
pensions to tax-deferred individual savings plans. 
We also encourage employees around the world 
to volunteer time to both workplace-sponsored 
community projects as well as charitable causes 
important to them personally. We offer a variety of 
working arrangements — including flexible schedules, 
telecommuting, and job sharing — to help employees 
manage home and work-life situations.Talent Attraction
SOCIAL
54SOCIAL
Every summer, John Deere employs the talents of 
approximately 500 interns. Internships are a key asset  
to developing our next generation of employees.  
When COVID-19-related restrictions placed the in-person 
program in jeopardy for the summer 2020, a cross-
functional team was created to make the program virtual. 
This first-ever fully virtual internship program offered a 
robust work experience for 372 interns. It also allowed 
us to assess their capabilities as we continue to build a 
talented, deep, and diverse talent pool. The program was a 
success — over 95 percent of the interns who participated 
were recommended for entry-level positions and 
development programs. And we demonstrate our agility 
and innovativeness with overcoming unprecedent events.
Intern Luke Ottey, a computer science major at Penn State 
University, helped John Deere’s Intelligent Solutions Group 
develop computer vision applications. These applications 
use satellite images from multiple sources to detect 
disturbances in agricultural fields. He also helped a team that was using a simulation to create training data for  
an autonomous tractor. 
“The internship was extremely meaningful to me because 
of my experience with computer vision, aerial imagery, 
and predictive analytics,” he says. “ And with John Deere’s 
transformation to Smart Industrial, they are introducing 
machine learning applications into their different teams. 
That’s essentially my area of focus.”
Ottey was highly satisfied with the virtual internship.  
He accepted an offer for a full-time position at John Deere 
Financial in the Analytics Development Program. 
“Overall, it was a great experience,” he says. “Everything  
I would have done in person I was able to do virtually.  
I couldn’t imagine it going any better, and I’m very happy 
to get a job offer. I’m definitely looking forward to seeing 
what John Deere has to offer in person.”Virtual Internship
55We proudly partner with these 
professional organizations:
SOCIALHaving the right mix of talent is vital to our continued 
growth and industry-leading innovation. Diverse teams 
bring better ideas and make better decisions, helping us 
build more innovative products and deliver on our new 
higher purpose. Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) are 
embedded in our recruitment and employee development 
process, which leverages talent attraction methods, 
managers and cross-functional teams focused on diversity,  
and our Employee Resources Groups.
To attract diverse talent, John Deere invests in diverse 
college and university students as well as in their schools. 
We seek students who have diverse backgrounds, 
experiences, and thought processes. For example, we have 
had great success partnering with the Thurgood Marshall 
College Fund Leadership Institute, which supports the 
development of leadership skills at publicly supported 
HBCUs and predominantly Black institutions.
Leading professional organizations also play a crucial role in 
our diversity recruitment strategy. Developing and fostering 
deep relationships with these organizations positions us 
to attract exceptional, diverse talent. These relationships 
also offer current employees extensive leadership and 
development opportunities.
Our leadership sets a consistent and transparent tone on 
diversity and inclusion. Leadership training focuses on 
building an inclusive environment and driving positive 
behavioral change. To help managers with development  
and team building, we measure inclusiveness as part of  
our Employee Experience Survey. 
We are working to further interweave DEI into all aspects 
of how we lead and do business. In addition to regional 
councils, we are also forming a global Diversity and 
Inclusion Council with senior leaders who own our DEI 
journey. Our DEI journey is a collective effort that involves 
every level of our organization, and must be a clear priority 
of every leader. Our councils help build and support a 
diverse, equitable and inclusive work environment.
Our company-sponsored Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs) are employee-run organizations formed around a 
common dimension of diversity, interest, or experience 
that affects the workplace. ERGs bring together 
individuals with shared interests, while serving as 
resources to our business. Their efforts address three 
key focus areas — employee development, community 
involvement, and business alignment.THE RIGHT   
MIX OF TALENT
56SOCIAL
.EDU:  engages and retains members by challenging them to share their passions for 
learning, teaching, and leading.
Asian Connection:  develops and promotes professional competencies and enhances 
employees’ understanding of John Deere’s link to the Asia/Pacific region. 
Black Employee Resource Group:  fosters employee engagement, provides professional 
development opportunities, and facilitates community involvement, all while promoting 
and supporting a diverse and inclusive environment within John Deere.
FLEX (Flexibility Leads to EXcellence):  supports work-life management and employees 
in a formal teleworking arrangement worldwide by increasing engagement and 
awareness.
HOLA:  helps recruit and retain Hispanic/Latino employees, offers community outreach 
programs, leads employee development programs, and advocates for diversity and 
inclusion.
Military Employee Resource Group:  enables members to express their support for 
military families and activities and exercise innovation and leadership.Multicultural: creates an inclusive and collaborative environment and fosters personal 
and professional development by bringing together employees from a variety of racial 
and ethnic backgrounds to promote understanding.
NEON (New & Experienced Organizational Network):  focuses on both business- 
and social-oriented events and is open to all employees, regardless of their years of 
experience.
Parent & Caregiver Connection:  empowers and improves the effectiveness of  
John Deere employees in their dual role as business professionals and family caregivers.
Rainbow: supports lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer/questioning (LGBTQ) 
employees and their allies at John Deere by focusing efforts on inclusion, breaking 
isolation and encouraging employee networking.
Women in Operations:  attracts women for careers in operations, develops current 
talent for careers and opportunities in operations, and retains women in operations.
WomenREACH (Relating, Enriching, Achieving, Challenging, and Helping): creates  
an environment for women to learn, develop, and build professional relationships.EXAMPLES OF ERGS THAT EMPOWER EMPLOYEES ACROSS MULTIPLE UNITS INCLUDE:John Deere’s 1,300 Rainbow ERG members use in-person social gatherings 
to build networks within the company for sharing and communicating 
opportunities. When COVID-19 struck, a vast majority of ERG members 
began working from home. The ERG leaders identified feelings of isolation 
among members as a problem that needed their urgent attention, so they 
focused efforts to connect members through a variety of engaging and 
creative virtual solutions, including starting a new virtual social network. 
Rainbow ERG not only adapted to the environment but thrived. “COVID-19 
was all over the media and work and home and schools,” says Deb Shaw, 
a Rainbow ERG member and senior facilities engineer. “So the facilitators 
decided to not bring up COVID-19 directly, but instead asked for positive 
thoughts around the current situation. If a member brought up negativity 
surrounding COVID-19 , we would very much allow them to vent or share their 
experiences. The whole point of the socialization was support. Most of all  
we shared a common belief of treating others with respect and humanity.”
As a result of its efforts, the John Deere Rainbow ERG received a 2020 
Outie Award for Belonging During COVID-19 from Out & Equal, the premier 
organization working exclusively for LGBTQ workplace equality. Outie Awards 
recognize individuals and organizations as leaders in advancing equality 
for LGBTQ people in workplaces globally. John Deere’s award recognizes 
the company’s efforts in stepping up during the COVID-19 pandemic and 
innovating to maintain and increase a sense of belonging for all employees. 
Out & Equal noted that in addition to the virtual networking sessions the 
John Deere Rainbow ERG continued educational efforts by helping launch 
the first-ever LGBTQ Awareness Online Course to teach employees how to 
recognize challenges, display empathy, learn inclusive language, and be 
an active ally. The Rainbow ERG also partnered with the John Deere Black 
Employee Resource Group (BERG) to hold conversations and draft a formal 
statement on racial justice to company leaders.TOGETHER ANYWHERE.
“Friends, 2020 has not been normal. Our lives changed 
suddenly and dramatically. For many of us, we have been 
isolated from the human support systems upon which 
we depended to survive and thrive. Our human contact 
has often been reduced to what we can fit through a 
digital screen. These are challenges that we at John 
Deere and those of us in the LGBTQ+ community have 
overcome by creating ways to be together, wherever we 
are and despite whatever we face.”
— Roberto Leone, Audit Manager – IT, Deere & Company, acceptance speech,  
     Outie Award for Belonging During COVID-19Rainbow ERG earned the 2020 
Outie Award from Out & Equal,  
the premier organization for  
LGBTQ workplace equality.
57TALENT
DEVELOPMENT
Training and development opportunities for employees 
at all stages of their careers empower them to reach their 
full potential. Employees are also critical to the long-term 
success of our business. We encourage employees to 
identify the paths that can build the skills, experience, 
knowledge, and competencies needed for career 
advancement. We support them by creating purpose-
driven work opportunities, comprehensive performance 
reviews and development plans, mentoring opportunities, 
and professional and personal development opportunities.
From the Start
For those employees that join John Deere right out of 
college, we have a robust program in place to provide them 
with diverse experiences and a broader network to lay the 
foundation for their career. 
Upon graduation, students can join the John Deere 
team by applying to one of the John Deere Development 
Programs. These programs ensure that new employees 
gain experience in different areas of the company at 
the start of their careers. New hires rotate between two 
or more entry-level roles within their fields of study to 
build knowledge and experience. Development Programs 
exist for engineering, IT, supply management, marketing, 
analytics, accounting & finance, and HR.
Through an  
Employee’s Career
Performance Reviews and Development Planning
Competencies are the foundation of development 
at John Deere and align behavior with strategy. They 
provide a common language for how we work, helping set 
performance expectations and guiding career planning. 
They also drive professional development, including soft 
skills and technical capabilities.In 2019 , we introduced a new behavioral competency 
model which reflects the behaviors, knowledge, skills, 
and attributes that employees develop over their 
careers. These define how we achieve performance 
goals and business results. The John Deere 
Competency Model, which complements functional 
and technical skills, comprises three performance 
themes and 11 behavioral competency categories.
To empower employees to focus their work on activities 
that have the highest impact for both the company 
and their development, we have developed Global 
Performance Management (GPM). This system aligns 
their work to key business objectives and the John 
Deere Strategy. GPM also focuses employee attention 
on the importance of how we work with one another, 
emphasizing teamwork and interpersonal relationships. 
In addition to GPM, Individual Development Plans 
(IDP) provide a process for employees and their 
managers to identify and track development 
objectives. This may include attending John Deere 
University, a global online learning tool that provides 
access to a wide range of colleges and course curricula.
GPM and IDP provide ongoing and collaborative 
processes through which managers and employees have 
regular performance and development conversations. 
GPM is part of the annual merit process, which is used 
to determine increases in base pay.
Mentorship
At John Deere, we know that most development 
occurs on the job through hands-on learning and 
support from others. To ensure that our employees 
have a strong network of support, we have developed 
a robust Mentoring Process. The vision for the  
process is simple — we want every employee to have 
cross-cultural, generational, and functional skill 
development from someone else in the company.  
This collaborative knowledge-sharing connects 
colleagues globally and leverages expertise and 
processes at John Deere. Although the main focus is 
the development of the mentee, mentors also gain 
knowledge and development from the relationship.
SOCIAL
Click here to learn more about our Develop -
ment Programs, visit deere.com/en/our-com -
pany/john-deere-careers/jobs-for-students/
new-graduates/
58Professional & Personal Development Opportunities
As employees grow throughout their careers, we are 
committed to offering experiences and opportunities that 
will challenge and reward them. Whether an employee 
decides that they will be a people leader or a knowledge 
leader, we provide development training and experiences.
Under the “People Path,” leaders are developed by 
engaging employees and maximizing their potential 
to achieve outstanding business results. In 2020, we 
introduced a new Leadership Model. Implementing the 
Smart Industrial Operating Model requires our leaders 
to demonstrate several key capabilities connected to our 
values and history, while guiding us into the future. The 
new leadership model highlights the behaviors expected of 
John Deere leaders as they execute our strategy, model our 
culture, and create our future. Collectively, these behaviors 
will allow us to lead an engaged and inclusive culture while 
producing exceptional business results.
Under the “Knowledge Path,” leaders develop themselves 
by contributing their technical and professional expertise to 
the building of products and services that will help improve 
the world. Through their knowledge, these leaders execute, 
support, research, and innovate technologies and they develop and teach others. We draw on their knowledge 
to drive innovation, continuous improvement, and the 
development and execution of the John Deere Strategy.  
The John Deere Fellows Program is the highest level 
of recognition for employees who have contributed to 
the company’s success through deep expertise in their 
functional areas.
SOCIALDue to COVID-19 and a quickly changing environment, several 
of our leadership programs were cancelled in 2020, but we 
were able to pause, pivot, and provide an adapted experience 
for those selected for the Global Leadership Program. The 
Global Leadership Program provides formal and experiential 
learning opportunities to understand trends in business 
innovation, the marketplace, and competitive challenges all 
while driving sustainable change. Nine leaders with diverse 
backgrounds and experiences were selected for the program. 
In partnership with Tuck School of Business, the consortium 
program provides John Deere executives the opportunity to 
learn from executives from non-competing companies.DEVELOPING GLOBAL LEADERSHIP
Robin Singh 
Chief HR Officer
59SOCIALTalent Retention
It is not enough for us to attract and develop our 
world-class talent — we must also retain it. To retain our 
employees, we measure and manage the quality of the 
employee experience and employee turnover. We are very 
pleased that our commitments to and investments in our 
employees result in low turnover compared to others in 
our industry. 
We conduct confidential Employee Experience Surveys 
across the majority of the business. In this survey, 
we emphasize employee engagement and manager 
effectiveness to ensure that we learn the extent to which 
employees feel engaged and supported in their work. 
Employees are strongly encouraged to participate. We 
use the results from the survey to develop action plans 
across the enterprise. 
In 2020, we conducted a global pulse survey to measure 
engagement and to capture what was on employees’ 
minds as we navigated COVID-19 . Overall, employee 
engagement increased 4 points from the previous year. 
Employees were appreciative of how the organization 
was fostering their well-being during the pandemic. Our 
talent management team offered resources such as short 
videos to employees, like “Ways to Prevent Burnout” 
while working from home or “Best Practices for Engaging 
a Split Team (On-Site and Remote).”Developing skills to drive innovation and quality to support 
our customers is at the core to our business. Over the 
past year, John Deere’s Global Information Technology (IT) 
organization has focused on transforming skillsets and 
processes to increase speed and deliver more value to our 
customers through a new Smart Industrial Operating Model. 
This transformation effort highlighted gaps between many of 
our IT employees’ existing technical skillsets and those needed 
to enable the future of Deere. We made a strategic decision to 
offer many of our employees distinct opportunities to develop 
the skills needed to fill new roles within the Global IT function. 
These strategic investments in both tools and employees’ 
time, were built on two fundamental approaches: UP-Skilling 
for those employees who are technically proficient to perform 
in our future roles and are able to refresh and refine specific 
skills; and, functional RE-Skilling for employees who want to 
make a career pivot into software engineering, a role in high-
demand in Global IT.
UP-Skilling consists of integrating a collection of courses 
from world-class universities and companies into Deere and 
curating learning paths to build and reinforce the specific 
skills needed by Global IT functions. These courses give our 
employees unprecedented access to varying levels of skill 
development, so each employee can find the right course to 
fit their individual need. In addition to the technical skills our 
employees have gained, employees completed intermediate 
and advanced course completions for communication and 
leadership skills.
The RE-Skilling program consists of a learning experience 
where Global IT employees are able to dedicate their 
full working day participating in a 12-week, intense, fully 
immersive software engineering skill development program. 
RE-Skilling represents a double investment in the employee 
considering both the cost of the program and the employee’s 
full dedication to training throughout the immersion.
The UP- and RE-Skilling efforts in Global IT represent a 
dynamic approach to building an internal talent pipeline for 
skills that are in high demand. By investing to develop our 
existing employees, we are able to retain talent and align them 
to the ever-evolving skills needed to drive customer value. UP- AND RE-SKILLING GLOBAL IT
60Labor and Human Rights
Health and Safety
Environment
EthicsAt John Deere, we honor human rights and respect 
the individual dignity of all persons globally. Our 
commitment to human rights requires that we 
understand and carry out our responsibilities consistent 
with company values and practices. 
We strive to ensure that human rights are upheld for 
our employees and all workers in our supply chain.  
Our commitment to respecting human rights is defined 
in our Code of Business Conduct, Supplier Code of 
Conduct, and John Deere’s Support of Human Rights in 
Our Business Practices, which establish clear guidelines 
for our employees and suppliers, while helping to 
inform our business decisions.
John Deere employees have a responsibility to uphold 
the standards of honor and integrity in the Code 
of Business Conduct. All employees are required to 
review the code and incorporate it into their work and 
behavior. To foster a more positive workplace, the code 
provides guidance on creating an inclusive environment 
that promotes mutual respect and acceptance. It also 
discusses how to maintain a high level of integrity when 
working with customers and suppliers.
When choosing suppliers, we engage with those who 
comply with laws and uphold values aligned with our 
own. Our employees regularly discuss the Supplier Code 
of Conduct with suppliers, and most supplier contracts 
require adherence to the Supplier Code of Conduct. 
This code addresses the following key areas:
SOCIALHUMAN
RIGHTS
We can build a better 
future and contribute 
to equality.Hatred and discrimination have no place in our 
society. Because actions speak louder than words, 
the John Deere Foundation pledged $1 million 
to the NAACP Empowerment Programs to fight 
against racial inequality. We also matched two-for-
one donations for U.S. employees to social justice 
reform organizations. These included the NAACP , 
American Civil Liberties Union, National Urban 
League, Trevor Project, Equality Now, Thurgood 
Marshall College Fund, and United Negro College 
Fund. By empowering employees to make a 
difference and express solidarity, we can build  
a better future and contribute to equality.BETTER FOR ALL
61PRODUCT  
Safety
SOCIALOur Corporate Product Safety Department 
works with factory safety committees,  
especially during product technology 
development, and provides coordination and 
consistent processes for multiple-factory 
product development projects. Product safety 
and standards engineers keep abreast of, 
and lead advancements in, product safety by 
participating in standards development and 
trade organizations.
During all product design, we adhere to our 
General Rule for Product Safety. This rule 
requires that an acceptable design must not 
present an unreasonable risk of injury to a 
product user or others nearby. In applying this 
rule, we consider the people, environmental 
conditions, and other products with which a 
product is likely to be involved.
Beyond our General Rule for Product Safety, 
we rely heavily on applicable safety standards 
as published by the International Standards Organization (ISO), the American National 
Standards Institute (ANSI), the American Society 
of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE), 
European Committee for Standardization (CEN), 
and other organizations. Our goal is to meet or 
surpass the intent of these standards. 
As part of our design process, we ensure safety 
information appears in pre-delivery instructions, 
operator’s manuals, technical manuals, and 
other service publications according to the 
activities to which they apply. In addition,  
safety instructions in the form of safety signs 
are affixed to the product to appropriately warn 
an operator of potential hazards.
We also provide training resources such  
as videos, posters, brochures, and guides.  
We support child-safety organizations, such as 
Progressive Ag Safety Day, and we encourage 
our dealers to promote safety in their 
communities.
62We also have a robust incident reporting system that 
collects incident information involving John Deere 
equipment from numerous sources, including our dealers, 
the customer call center, and public information. 
All incident reports are forwarded to the Corporate Product 
Safety Department and entered into a central repository. 
A formal report of the incident is sent to the factory and 
marketing groups responsible for the product, where it is 
reviewed by the factory Product Safety Committee. 
We have developed and use product repair and recall 
processes, which include specific activities and procedures 
for product recall reporting and notification. All consumer 
product recalls are posted on the John Deere website and 
the website of the appropriate governmental agency.A growing number of laws and regulations around the 
world relating to the chemical makeup of products placed 
on the market are being introduced, and revisions are 
made to those already in existence. The company monitors 
product chemical regulations, such as REACH and RoHS 
laws. As new requirements are identified, we update our 
processes while continually engaging our supply base.
SOCIAL
To see more of the story, visit
deere.com/en/parts-and-service/safety/KEYWORDS
REACH - Registration, Evaluation, Authorization  
and Restriction of Chemicals
RoHS  - Restriction of Hazardous SubstancesAppropriate features are built into John Deere products to  
help protect operators and others from injury. For example,  
John Deere excavators, wheel loaders, crawlers, and skid 
steers can be equipped with a rearview camera that displays 
the action behind the machine on a color monitor. Our wheel 
loaders also feature a rear radar object-detection system.
In addition, John Deere is currently developing Obstacle 
Intelligence as a potential feature for its loaders, skid steers, 
and excavators. Possible elements could include an advanced 
rear-object detection system, virtual mirrors that provide a 
wider field of view, a display showing projected path lines of 
the vehicle, and alerts for objects that intensify as the object 
gets closer.Developing safe products is one of our key priorities.OBSTACLE DETECTION AND INTELLIGENCE
63SOCIALPRODUCT  
Quality
Quality is a core value for John Deere. 
Significant effort and investment go into 
delivering a standard of quality that achieves 
the highest levels of customer satisfaction. 
John Deere’s success with our Distinctive 
Product Quality initiatives has ensured that  
our customers’ uptime needs are met to keep 
them running in the field, the construction site,  
or wherever they connect to the land. 
Establishing aggressive customer-driven goals 
for all our products helps assure product 
quality. A continuous improvement process led 
by our product teams helps us address quality 
issues identified through several channels 
including warranty claims, connected machine 
data, and dealer and customer feedback. When 
an issue is discovered, cross-functional teams 
swiftly evaluate the issue, and implement 
corrective actions as appropriate. We also 
continually monitor and measure customer 
feedback through customer surveys and 
machine performance via our connectivity 
solutions for much of our John Deere fleet.
Product Quality at John Deere has  
four primary focus areas:
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT QUALITY
During product development, John Deere’s 
quality processes include significant reliability 
and durability testing, validation of new 
parts and procedures, and tracking to ensure 
products are ready for our customers at launch. 
Cross-functional teams, including both internal 
disciplines and critical suppliers, track results, 
make adjustments as needed, and manage programs to ensure customer expectations  
are met throughout the product lifecycle. 
The engineering team audits and inspects new 
parts and procedures. The team also performs 
testing in the lab and field to find product 
failures before they get to our customers.  
We engage critical suppliers and involve them 
in design, manufacturing, and quality planning. 
This helps ensure John Deere products meet 
customer needs throughout the product 
lifecycle. 
MANUFACTURED QUALITY
John Deere’s quality management system 
includes teams that work with operations, 
manufacturing, and product engineering 
teams to ensure the highest level of quality. 
Quality processes, audit checks, and 
automated controls are built into each station 
of operation. Teams also validate and audit 
the final product using a customer-focused 
machine runoff, final set of inspections, 
and smart testing tools that allow them to 
proactively find and address any issues prior  
to product shipment. Currently, 44 of our 
global manufacturing locations are certified  
in ISO 9001.
Through rigorous auditing, inspections, and 
process reviews, we work with our suppliers 
to ensure they are capable of continually 
producing quality components and parts. 
Additionally, John Deere offers coaching, 
capability support, and industry information 
that helps suppliers improve performance.  
Our partnership with suppliers is key to 
ensuring final product quality.
64SOCIAL
IMPROVING PRODUCT  
QUALITY AT HARVESTER WORKSPROBLEM RESOLUTION
When problems or issues are identified, we 
follow a rigorous problem resolution process.
This ensures we address issues quickly and 
completely by finding the root cause, validating 
solutions, and resolving problems with 
preventive actions. Leveraging virtual validation 
and lab analysis tools helps us quickly find a 
solution and make improvements. These tools 
also help us learn from failures.
We understand that time is money with 
our customers and every minute counts. 
More access to data and information about 
connected machine performance and from 
our production facilities helps us more rapidly 
identify and resolve customer problems. To 
help limit customer downtime, we proactively 
release software updates, some of which can 
be delivered remotely. We also closely monitor 
customer satisfaction through customer 
surveys, making sure our uptime performance  
is truly distinctive to our customers. 
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
Customer satisfaction is a key focus for us  
and part of our company-wide Distinctive 
Product Quality Initiative. Distinctive Quality  
is what defines, characterizes, and supports  
our brand. It differentiates us from the 
competition by contributing to a distinctive 
customer experience and delivering value to  
our stakeholders while also satisfying  
applicable requirements. 
Leveraging customer insights and experiences 
helps us deliver Distinctive Quality by targeting 
quality levels for each product that are unique 
in the industry. We closely track performance 
of all products in relation to quality goals. 
We regularly follow up with our customers 
to ensure our products meet their specific 
requirements. Customer feedback drives 
modifications to our processes and product 
improvement, for example, improving longer-
term reliability and durability well after the 
manufacturer’s warranty has expired. John Deere Harvester Works, Moline, Illinois has invested 
over $10 million in quality and factory process control 
technology since 2014. In conjunction with this large 
investment, cross-functional problem-solving teams 
have reduced the failures per machine by half, resulting 
in more durable products with lower repair costs and 
fewer warranty claims. The use of data, analytics, and 
technology at John Deere Harvester Works reduces 
process variation in the manufacturing of our combines 
and front-end equipment to produce the highest quality 
products for our customers.
65from 2019 to 2020John Deere has typically utilized a short-term time horizon for sustainability 
goals, which has ensured that each set has been near-term enough to drive 
behavior toward accomplishing those goals, as well as provides enough time 
for the business to adapt and make the necessary changes. 
In setting our 2022 Sustainability Goals, we benchmarked more than 30 
companies including sustainability leaders, others in our industry, and 
companies represented on John Deere’s Board of Directors. The goals went 
through rigorous evaluation by a cross-functional team, which considered 
alignment to our business and strategy, extent of business evolution 
necessary to achieve within the time frame, and priority areas for internal 
stakeholders. As a result, we developed five core sustainability goals that  
we have committed to delivering on by the end of our fiscal year 2022. 
PROGRESS TOWARD OUR GOALS
We continue to make positive progress toward accomplishing our 2022 
Sustainability Goals, despite the challenges presented by the dynamic 
circumstances of 2020 and the COVID-19 pandemic. Our top priority 
during 2020 was keeping our employees safe. Despite the challenging 
circumstances, we saw a 20 percent improvement in our Total Recordable 
Incident Rate from 2019 to 2020. 
 
We continue to reduce our GHG emissions, although a portion of the 
progress experienced in 2020 was due to the impact of COVID-19 on our 
operations, rather than our structural improvement programs. Therefore, 
we still expect that our time horizon for accomplishing our 15 percent 
absolute GHG reduction goal will be 2022. A major part of achieving this 
goal is through the use of renewable energy, and we are over halfway to 
our goal of 50 percent renewable electricity. 
 
Our global units are implementing water best management practices,  
and continue to explore opportunities for increased avenues for recycling, 
despite some obstacles presented by the impact of COVID-19 during 2020 
and the shifting global market for recycling. While our remanufacturing 
activity was down this year due to the pandemic, we expect this area to 
continue to grow meaningfully into 2022 and beyond. As a company,  
we rolled out 21 new product programs during 2020, 67 percent of which 
have a reduced environmental impact compared to prior models.2022  SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
GOVERNANCE
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
20%ENTERPRISE TOTAL RECORDABLE  
INCIDENT RATEAchieve safety excellence through increased focus on leading 
indicators, risk reduction, health and safety management systems, 
and prevention.WASTE RECYCLEDINCREASE RECYCLING
201890%
85%85%
78% 78%80% 80%
75%
70%80%
2019 2020 2021 2022 Goal 2017
(BASE YEAR)Recycle 85 percent of total waste.
NEW PRODUCT PROGRAMS WITH LOWER  
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
REMANUFACTURED AND REBUILD SALES GROWTH
40%30%
10.0%8.9%20%
0%
2019 2020 2021 2022 GoalPRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY
Reduce environmental impact, including CO 2e emissions, on 90 
percent of new products. Increase the use of sustainable materials 
by growing remanufactured and rebuild sales by 30 percent and by 
increasing recyclable, renewable, and recycled content.
2019100%90%
53%67%
29%
0%50%
2020 2021 2022 Goal 2018
(BASE YEAR)
1.324.0
3.2
2.4
1.6
0.8
0.0# of Recordable Incidents 
Per 100 Employees1.65
BLS* *BLS = Bureau of Labor Statistics - NAICS 333 - Machinery Manufacturing
Note: BLS data based on a calendar year2019 2020 2021 2022SUSTAINABLE ENERGY USE
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (mtCO2e)
RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY2018
20181M
800K
60%50%
25%32%
24% 24%9 47,9 5 0 967 ,000 921,000 766,000
15%
REDUCTION
800,000400K
20%
0%200K
0600K
40%2019
20192020
20202021
2021from Base Y ear
2022
2022Goal
Goal 2017
(BASE YEAR)19%Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15 percent through 50 percent 
renewable electricity supply and excellence in energy efficiency.
2017
(BASE YEAR)
WATER BMP IMPLEMENTEDUSE WATER RESPONSIBL Y
100%
21%29%
50%
0%100%
2019 2020 2021 2022 GoalImplement water best management practices (BMP) in 
100 percent of water-scarce manufacturing locations.
67CORPORATE
Governance
At John Deere, we believe strong corporate governance —
starting with our Board of Directors — enhances our business. 
With our Board’s oversight, we conduct our business openly, 
honestly, and fairly. We measure our accomplishments by  
how we achieve them as well as by the results themselves. 
More than this — we know that our results will be greater  
and more long-lasting when we achieve them the right way. 
In short, we believe that strong corporate governance creates 
long-term shareholder value. 
John Deere currently has a Board of 11 Directors. Directors are 
nominated based on their skills, experiences, and backgrounds 
and the needs of the Board and our company. Every Director 
must stand for election annually.
At all times, a majority of the Board of Directors must meet the 
criteria for independence established by applicable laws and 
regulations and the New Y ork Stock Exchange. At the end of 
calendar year 2020, all of our Directors, except our Chairman, 
were independent.
Directors are recruited to strengthen the Board’s diversity and 
ensure that the Board reflects and understands the diverse 
perspectives of John Deere’s stakeholders around the globe. 
Three of our 10 independent Directors are female and three  
of our 10 independent Directors are people of color.
Our Presiding Director is elected by a majority of 
the independent Directors. Among other duties and 
responsibilities, the Presiding Director presides at all 
meetings of the Board at which the Chairman is not present 
and, jointly with the Chairman, approves the schedule of 
Board meetings, the proposed agendas, and the materials 
to be sent to the Board. The Presiding Director can also call 
meetings of the independent Directors and is available for 
direct communication with shareholders.
(from left to right, top to bottom) John C. May, Sheila G. Talton, Dipak C. Jain,  
Tamra A. Erwin, Dmitri L. Stockton, Charles O. (Chad) Holliday, Jr., Sherry M. Smith, 
Gregory R. Page, Michael O. Johanns, Alan C. Heuberger, Clayton M. Jones
GOVERNANCEJohn Deere has developed a risk management process to 
manage long-term shareholder value with oversight by the 
Board. Sustainability topics are incorporated into this risk 
management process. Various internal committees comprising 
Senior Officers have responsibility for identifying, evaluating, 
mitigating, and monitoring risks. Reviews of key risks typically 
occur at regularly scheduled Board meetings. Periodically, 
pertinent risks are reviewed with the Board to provide a deeper 
understanding of the current trends and mitigation plans.
THE BOARD HAS DELEGATED SOME OF ITS AUTHORITY  
TO FIVE COMMITTEES:
THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee may meet as needed to act on 
matters requiring action between meetings of the full Board. 
AUDIT REVIEW COMMITTEE 
The Audit Review Committee assists the Board in overseeing the 
integrity of our financial statements, our compliance with legal 
requirements, and the performance of our internal auditors.
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE 
The Compensation Committee makes recommendations to the 
Board regarding incentive and equity-based compensation 
plans. It also evaluates and approves the compensation of our 
executive officers except for the compensation of our CEO, 
which is approved by the full Board.
FINANCE COMMITTEE 
The Finance Committee reviews the policies, practices, 
strategies, and risks relating to John Deere’s financial affairs 
and exercises oversight of our Financial Services business, 
pension and OPEB matters.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE 
The Governance Committee monitors corporate governance 
policies, evaluates and recommends nominees to the Board, 
recommends Board structure, and oversees our Center for 
Global Business Conduct. The Committee also oversees the 
company’s compliance programs and monitors risks related to 
environmental matters, occupational safety, product safety, 
product compliance, product liability, supply chain, and other 
related sustainability topics. JOHN DEERE POLICIES
Because we believe corporate governance is integral to creating 
long-term shareholder value, our Board of Directors has adopted 
company-wide corporate governance policies that are periodically 
reviewed and revised to ensure that they reflect the Board’s 
corporate governance objectives. These policies, along with 
John Deere’s Code of Business Conduct and other work-specific 
policies, establish the framework by which we conduct ourselves 
and our global business in full compliance with the law and by 
which we affirm our commitment to integrity in everything we do.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICIES  
These policies establish the guiding principles for John Deere 
corporate governance, including Board composition and functions, 
meetings, committees, compensation, and management evaluation 
and succession planning.
CODE OF ETHICS 
This code establishes ethical standards applicable to Directors, 
employees, and officers in satisfaction of applicable laws and 
regulations and the New Y ork Stock Exchange. 
CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT  
This code provides specific guidance to all employees and  
outlines how we can and must uphold and strengthen the 
standards of honor and integrity that have defined our company 
since our founding. 
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, AND SAFETY POLICY 
With a focus on continuous improvement, this policy provides that 
we conduct our business in a manner that protects our customers, 
employees, communities, suppliers, and the environment. 
SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT  
This code ensures that all our suppliers conduct business with  
a high degree of integrity and in a socially and environmentally 
responsible manner. 
 
SUPPORT OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN OUR BUSINESS 
PRACTICES 
This guidance outlines how John Deere strives to ensure that  
human rights are upheld for our employees and all workers in  
our supply chain. 
GLOBAL CONFLICT MINERALS POLICY 
This policy sets forth our commitment to conducting worldwide 
business operations in a manner that complies with applicable  
laws and regulations regarding conflict minerals.
GOVERNANCE
69Responsibility for sustainability runs from our Board of Directors to our 
employees. To do this, the Board oversees a variety of committees, councils,  
and policies to engage every employee throughout the company. With the Smart 
Industrial Operating Model, we are reevaluating the future of these different 
committees, councils, and groups to ensure sustainability ownership is further 
driven throughout the organization.
The Corporate Governance Committee guides and directs strategic planning, 
metrics generation, and reporting guidance regarding sustainability through  
the following groups: 
Enterprise Environment, Health, Safety, Standards, and Sustainability (EHSSS) 
Council.  The EHSSS Council provides leadership to assure business decisions 
address regulatory compliance in relation to the supply chain, risk reduction, 
and safeguarding employees, customers, and the environment. The council 
advocates practices that promote sustainable performance with natural resource 
conservation through global operations and with John Deere products, services, 
and technology solutions. The EHSSS Council meets multiple times annually and 
members include executive and division leadership and subject matter experts.
Product Safety Standards Regulatory and Compliance (PSSRC) Council. The 
PSSRC Council provides guidance and direction for product safety and standards. 
It meets at least three times a year and makes a formal annual report to the 
Corporate Governance Committee. The Council includes corporate and platform 
product safety and standards personnel, as well as legal and public affairs counsel. 
Climate Change and Carbon Risk Team (CCCRT). Climate change risks and 
opportunities are reported to this team via quarterly meetings. The team 
monitors changes in climate science, technical issues such as land-based offset 
protocol developments, macro- and sector-level economics related to forestry 
and agricultural modeling, carbon and fuel prices, customer trade associations’ 
positions, climate regulation and legislation globally, and other carbon marketplace 
news. The team is composed of global representatives from supporting business 
areas and subject matter experts.
Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) Committee.  
The ESG committee protects and promotes John Deere’s brand, reputation, 
and investment interests. It tracks, coordinates, and documents requests for 
information from the company on ESG issues. The committee meets on a quarterly 
basis and is composed of subject matter experts.
Subject Matter Experts.  Subject Matter Experts are responsible for developing 
and executing the strategic plan and generating metrics based on their deep 
understanding of the specific subject and the company. 
SUSTAINABILITY
Governance
GOVERNANCE
70ENVIRONMENT,  
HEALTH, AND SAFETY  
OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE
John Deere’s workplace health and safety and 
environmental commitments and efforts are set forth 
in our Environment, Health, and Safety Policy and are 
integrated into the company’s worldwide operations 
through two critical systems: the John Deere Health 
and Safety Management System and Environmental 
Management System. One internal process in place to 
ensure alignment with our environmental commitments 
is the Capital Facility Approval Funding process.
HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Our Health and Safety Management System is based 
on ISO 45001. Global standards set the minimum 
requirements for John Deere health and safety. We 
also set standards for contractor safety, which include 
a requirement to conduct a hazard assessment for 
contractor work with high risks to personnel, property, 
and business interruption.
Every five years, third-party safety audits are 
conducted at the majority of our manufacturing 
locations. These audits review the effectiveness of the  
Health and Safety Management System, adherence to 
applicable John Deere health and safety standards, and 
compliance with regulatory requirements. 
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
John Deere is currently transitioning to ISO 
(International Standards Organization) 14001:2015.  
This system fosters continuous improvement and 
drives environmental performance.  Currently, 13 of our global manufacturing locations 
are certified in ISO 14001:2015, with a goal of having 
100 percent manufacturing locations certified by 2022 
(excluding joint ventures and recent acquisitions). 
Every four years, third-party audits are conducted at 
certain John Deere sites, selected based on relative 
level of risk. Sites not subjected to third-party audit 
are assessed through our internal audit protocols. 
Both types of audits are aimed at assessing compliance 
of each facility with environmental programs and 
applicable regulatory requirements around the world.  
CAPITAL FACILITY APPROVAL FUNDING
We aspire to design, build, and operate facilities that 
minimize use of natural resources. Any new capital 
project over $4 million of facility-based spend must  
be evaluated using the Sustainable Facility Design  
Tool before leadership approval can be obtained.  
This tool determines and prioritizes environmental 
design strategies by region, type of facility, and 
whether that facility is owned or leased. Examples of 
such strategies include natural lighting options and 
water recirculation. These prioritized strategies are 
then incorporated within project design when viable.
GOVERNANCE
71Compliance
Operating with the highest business ethics 
requires vigilance. John Deere’s Center for 
Global Business Conduct helps ensure consistent 
compliance in a dynamic global business 
environment with increasingly complex global 
laws and regulations.
The Center for Global Business Conduct provides 
continuous training, communications, and best 
practices throughout John Deere’s operations  
to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, 
and to sustain our strong ethical culture.  
It provides employee access to global policies 
and offers guidance on complex and sometimes 
ambiguous business and cultural situations. Ethics 
and compliance training are required for full-time 
salaried employees at least four times per year, 
and new salaried employees must complete a core 
curriculum of training courses. Training topics are 
focused on key compliance risks and expectations 
for employees. We measure our culture using 
questions embedded in our Employee Experience 
Survey, new hire surveys, and exit surveys. We 
have team members embedded in key geographies 
to provide consistent support for employees and 
the culture.Our strong governance starts with our Board of 
Directors, and is built upon strong processes, 
rigorous audits, and on our employees and  
other stakeholders freely reporting concerns  
of actual or potential misconduct or other risks.  
To encourage such reporting, we have established 
the John Deere Compliance Hotline, operated by 
an independent company and available to receive 
confidential reports from anyone within or outside 
John Deere. To access country-specific Hotline 
information, employees can review the posters  
on display at each company location or go to the  
John Deere intranet. Anyone may access the  
John Deere Compliance Hotline through the 
website listed in the Code of Business Conduct 
and Supplier Code of Conduct. 
We address all reports thoroughly and promptly. 
John Deere will not tolerate retaliation against 
any individual for making a report. This is true 
even if an investigation does not uncover any 
actual misconduct.
The Ethisphere Institute has recognized John Deere as one  
of the world’s most ethical businesses 13 times since the  
award’s inception.
“Integrity is a core value at John Deere and has 
been critical to our company’s long history of 
success,” said John May, Chairman and CEO at 
Deere & Company. “We remain committed to 
upholding the highest ethical standards and 
maintaining our reputation for doing business 
the right way.”
GOVERNANCE
72CYBERSECURITY 
AND DATA PRIVACY
At John Deere, we have seen a dramatic increase 
in data which is produced, collected, and analyzed. 
Properly managing and processing this data allows 
us to better run our enterprise, provide enhanced 
customer support, and offer better, more productive 
products and services for our customers.
Because of the importance of cybersecurity 
and data privacy, the Corporate Governance 
Committee and Audit Review Committee provide 
Board oversight. To ensure strong execution 
and engagement with the Board, we have 
established a Digital Risk Governance Council and 
an Executive Business Conduct Council, which 
provide senior leadership oversight of information 
security governance, data governance, digital risk 
management, and privacy.
We leverage the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology Cybersecurity Framework as 
the foundational building blocks of our global 
information security program. Our program focuses 
on assuring operational resilience and protecting the information that has been entrusted to us by 
our customers, employees, dealers, and suppliers,  
as well as the data created by the enterprise. 
Our data privacy program is constantly monitoring, 
adapting to, and working diligently to comply with 
changes in global privacy legislation. While the 
European General Data Protection Regulation and 
other regional and state regulations have brought 
increased requirements and more general awareness 
to privacy, we have long been focused on ensuring 
responsible use of personal data. 
John Deere maintains its European Binding 
Corporate Rules, which are often considered  
the gold standard for the processing of personal 
data in the European Union. To accomplish this,  
we routinely submit significant parts of our privacy 
program for review by European regulators.
To see more of the story, 
visit deere.com/trust
GOVERNANCE
73At John Deere, we rely on strong, capable suppliers and a supply 
base that mirrors the diversity of all our stakeholders worldwide. 
For that reason, we are committed to continuously growing and 
developing small and diverse suppliers throughout the world. 
COMMITMENT TO SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Since its inception in 1980, our Supplier Diversity program has 
attracted new and promising suppliers through our Prospective 
Supplier website, supplier outreach events, and conferences. 
Supply Management routinely works with suppliers to help 
develop and improve their manufacturing processes. Our goal 
is to actively work with suppliers to help them become more 
competitive in the industries they serve. We also continuously 
engage local and national councils and share best program 
practices. We want to continue to grow suppliers of direct 
material, indirect material, and logistics, and follow a strategy 
that will help the supply chain become more resilient and prosper.
Our program annually recognizes small and diverse suppliers who 
have demonstrated continued growth in expanding their business 
relationship with John Deere and lead the way in proactive 
innovative opportunities. We include small and diverse supplier 
awards each year and promote expansion of supply within our 
divisions.
We continue to focus on diverse suppliers by placing priority on 
growing our spending with existing suppliers while also looking 
to expand the supply base with new women- and minority-owned 
businesses. To further our commitment in this area, we added a 
role within Supply Management focused on developing deeper 
relationships with diverse suppliers and increasing our total 
business opportunities. 
In 2020, we were able to expand business with a small woman-
owned business by 300% to nearly $1M and a small disadvantaged 
(minority owned) supplier by over 300% to over $4.5M in spend. 
SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE EXPECTATIONS
We expect that all our suppliers treat workers with dignity and 
respect, provide safe working conditions, use environmentally 
responsible manufacturing processes, and adhere to the highest 
ethical standards. Our actions, including onsite supplier audits 
and supplier training as well as consistent and fair treatment 
of suppliers, demonstrate our commitment to supply-chain 
excellence.Supply Chain
GOVERNANCE
Wallas Wiggins
Vice President of  
Supply Management
74To ensure suppliers conduct business with a high degree of integrity 
and in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, all our 
suppliers are expected to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
Based on our own Code of Business Conduct, the Supplier Code of 
Conduct applies to all suppliers worldwide. Under the code, suppliers 
are expected to comply with child labor laws and must not engage in 
or support the use of forced or involuntary labor. They are expected 
to comply with all applicable local laws concerning discrimination in 
employment, provide safe working environments, and comply with 
safety and health laws and regulations.
Environmental compliance is a key expectation of our suppliers. 
Suppliers must ensure their operations comply with all laws related 
to air emissions, water discharges, toxic substances, and hazardous 
waste disposal. They are encouraged to have an environmental 
management system in place and to conduct their operations in a 
way that minimizes the impact on natural resources while protecting 
our customers, employees, and the environment.
At John Deere we have robust policies and procedures in place to 
ensure that both (1) controlled materials required in our supply 
chain and operations are managed properly, and that (2) restricted 
materials do not find their way in. There are three main avenues that 
John Deere uses to manage critical materials: our Supplier Code of 
Conduct, Supplier Audits, and our Restricted Materials List.
To verify that our suppliers are abiding by our high standards  
for compliance, we perform regular audits of their processes and 
procedures. We complete a quality and compliance audit on all 
new direct material suppliers and re-audit based on any known 
issues, new manufacturing locations or other key indicators. Supply 
Management completes an annual Conflict Minerals review for over 70% of our total purchased volume each year. Due diligence to 
address any identified concerns is completed and suppliers are driven 
to eliminate any potential issues within their supply chain. 
John Deere files its Conflict Mineral report with the SEC annually. 
Supply Management also completes RoHS and REACH surveys with 
our supply base for required material as new parts are required.  For 
all compliance processes, John Deere Supply Management maintains 
all problems and nonconformances in our Supply Chain Risk 
Management system where corrective action plans are established 
and followed up on under a defined schedule.
To see further details about the critical materials within our supply 
chain, and how we manage the risks associated with those materials, 
please refer to the SASB Appendix.
Additionally, our suppliers are expected to be familiar with the 
business practices of their own suppliers and subcontractors and 
ensure that they, too, operate in accordance with the Supplier Code 
of Conduct. John Deere provides a reporting process through which 
suppliers can anonymously report potential violations. 
ACHIEVING EXCELLENCE PROGRAM
The John Deere Achieving Excellence program evaluates a 
supplier’s performance in quality, delivery, cost management, and 
technical support and includes all requirements of the Supplier 
Code of Conduct. We proactively monitor suppliers to mitigate 
risks of a negative impact on human rights, health, safety, or the 
environment, and we take measures to ensure that our suppliers 
conduct business in an ethical manner. A supplier’s environmental 
sustainability efforts are key measurement in the John Deere 
Achieving Excellence program.
SUPPLIERS BY THE END OF OUR FISCAL YEAR 2022
REACHED THROUGH THE ECOVADIS PLATFORM
GOVERNANCE
75ASSESSING AND IMPROVING SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE
We utilize a risk-management tool to monitor supplier risks 
for compliance, financial health, performance, and event and 
business continuity planning. We monitor activity related 
to the Supplier Code of Conduct, including compliance to 
environmental assessments, and all other compliance issues 
reported through other channels. This improves transparency 
and risk management in the supply chain.
We employ a robust and formal audit, assessment, and 
verification program for suppliers and potential new 
suppliers. Many on-site audits include a compliance 
verification section that covers all requirements of the 
Supplier Code of Conduct. 
 
In the event of non-compliance, we utilize a formal internal 
corrective action process. Programs and processes are 
formalized through the John Deere Supplier Qualification 
System and Non-Conformance & Corrective Action Process.In 2020, John Deere engaged EcoVadis, a recognized global 
leader in corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability 
ratings, to assess the sustainability performance of key 
suppliers in our supply chain. Over 400 logistics and material 
suppliers have been asked to complete the sustainability 
assessment. Plans are in place to reach over 1,000 suppliers 
by the end of our fiscal year 2022, which will encompass over 
60 percent of our material spend for the corporation.
Our Supply Chain Sustainability initiative will provide a high 
level of transparency to the sustainable performance of our 
supply base, while helping improve our overall corporate 
performance. We will accomplish this by driving suppliers to 
improve their sustainability performance, fully incorporating 
the sustainability scorecard into our procurement processes, 
and providing supplier awards and recognition for improved 
CSR scores within our Achieving Excellence supplier 
evaluation process.
GOVERNANCETo see more of the story,  
visit our Restricted Materials List
76To improve the sustainability performance of our 
supply chain, we collaborate with EcoVadis, a global 
leader in business sustainability ratings. EcoVadis’ 
assessment model has been refined over decades by 
their sustainability experts. Suppliers are assessed using 
an online questionnaire customized to industry, country  
of operations, and size.
The assessment model is organized into four themes: 
environment, ethics, labor and human rights, and 
sustainable procurement. The methodology covers  
an additional 13 CSR & Sustainability criteria on top of 
the following eight covered in the John Deere Supplier 
Code of Conduct.
• Employee Health and Safety
• Working Conditions
• Child Labor, Forced Labor, and Human Trafficking
• Diversity, Discrimination, and Harassment
• Corruption
• Responsible Information Management
• Environmental Practices
• Social PracticesResults are published in an actionable scorecard, along 
with benchmarks and detailed feedback of strengths 
and improvement areas in each of the four themes.
Our work with EcoVadis covers a significant portion 
of our global supply base. John Deere will utilize the 
EcoVadis scorecard results to enhance our procurement 
processes, enable higher levels of collaboration with our 
suppliers on sustainability issues, identify and mitigate 
supply chain risks, provide additional evaluation criteria 
in our Achieving Excellence supplier ratings, and —
most importantly — to increase John Deere’s ability to 
positively impact the global environment.
Environment
Ethics
Labor and Human Rights
Sustainable ProcurementFour Themes of EcoVadis’ 
Assessment ModelECOVADIS: SUPPLIER
SUSTAINABILITY RATINGS
GOVERNANCE
77POLITICAL PARTICIPATION
At John Deere, we believe that participating 
in democratic political processes around 
the world and advocating for public policies 
that permit us to compete fairly and freely 
in the marketplace are vitally important to 
all our stakeholders. In whatever form it 
might take, our engagement in the political 
process is grounded in and guided by our firm 
commitment to strong corporate governance 
and global corporate citizenship. 
In compliance with U.S. federal and state 
election laws, John Deere administers the  
John Deere Political Action Committee 
(JDPAC), a voluntary, non-partisan group 
comprising U.S. employees. JDPAC members 
voluntarily pool their personal financial 
contributions to support select federal and 
state office candidates who understand and 
support the general business interests of 
our company, customers, employees, and 
stakeholders. Under federal law and company 
policy, participation in JDPAC is limited to U.S. 
administrative and executive-level employees. 
Except for administrative expenses, JDPAC is 
funded solely by John Deere employees and 
not supported by funds from John Deere itself. 
The company does not reimburse employees 
directly or indirectly for political contributions, 
including contributions to JDPAC. 
Oversight of JDPAC’s contributions and 
related activities are governed by its board 
of directors, comprised of 13 John Deere employees from throughout our various 
business units. JDPAC does not engage 
in legislative matters or lobbying activity. 
Further, JDPAC does not seek to influence  
any particular vote through contributions. 
JDPAC fully discloses all contributions made 
and received through reports filed with the 
Federal Election Commission and various 
state ethics commissions, as required by 
law. For transparency, John Deere posts an 
annual report on our website summarizing 
JDPAC contributions made in the most recent 
calendar year or election cycle, categorized 
by state, candidate, and amount. To view the 
annual report for the 2019–2020 election 
cycle, please click here  
Political spending by John Deere reflects our 
business interests and is used to further our 
public advocacy goals. John Deere complies 
with federal, state, and local campaign 
finance laws and regulations governing 
political contributions and the disclosure of 
these contributions. Consistent with U.S. 
federal law, John Deere does not contribute 
corporate funds to federal candidates, 
national political party committees, or other 
federal political committees. For example, 
even when permitted by applicable law in 
connection with certain state and local 
elections, we do not use corporate assets to 
support or oppose any candidate for political 
office or ballot measure. The company 
does, however, reserve the right to make exceptions to this practice so long as any 
contribution we make is consistent with our 
public policy agenda, in accordance with our 
Code of Business Conduct, and previously 
approved by our Chairman & Chief Executive 
Officer, and Senior Vice President, General 
Counsel & Public Affairs. John Deere does 
not pay for any independent expenditures 
or electioneering communications, as those 
terms are defined by applicable law. In the 
interest of transparency for our shareholders 
and other stakeholders, we publicly disclose 
and update annually our corporate political 
contributions. John Deere did not make  
any political expenditures out of corporate 
assets in the 2019 or 2020 calendar year.  
John Deere belongs to several trade and 
industry associations and pays regular dues 
to these groups. We join trade associations 
in part to join other like-minded companies 
in engaging in public education and advocacy 
efforts regarding major issues of common 
concern to our industries.
Our participation in trade associations 
is subject to management approval and 
oversight. We publicly disclose and update 
annually a list of those U.S. trade associations 
to which John Deere pays dues or makes other 
contributions of $50,000 or more, as well as 
the portions of such dues or payments that 
are not deductible under Section 162(e)(1) of 
the Internal Revenue Code. To view the annual 
report for U.S. trade association memberships 
and expenditures, please click here
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: 
Statements in this report that relate to future events, expectations, and trends 
involve factors that are subject to change, and risks and uncertainties that could 
cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties are difficult 
to predict and often are outside of the control of the company. 
Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future 
performance. Instead, they are based only on the company’s current beliefs, 
expectations and assumptions regarding the future of its business, strategic 
objectives, projections, anticipated economic changes and trends, and other 
conditions. Forward-looking statements in this report may include, but are 
not limited to, statements regarding the company’s operational strategies, 
equipment designs that optimize performance outcomes for customers, efforts 
regarding energy, water, and emissions, and the development of mechanisms for 
tracking sustainability metrics. Important factors that could cause the company’s 
actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking 
statements include, among others, the following: (i) compliance with and 
changes to global and regional environmental, health, safety, and human rights 
laws, including emissions and noise regulations, and other ethical business 
practices; (ii) compliance with and changes to greenhouse gas emission and other 
standards related to climate change; (iii) production, design and technological 
innovations and difficulties, including capacity and supply constraints and prices; 
(iv) availability and price of raw materials, components and whole goods; (v) attracting, developing, engaging and retaining qualified employees; (vi) weather 
conditions and natural calamities; (vii) availability of enabling technologies 
including GPS and radio frequency spectrums; (viii) network security breaches 
and disruptions; (ix) compliance with privacy and data protection laws and 
regulations; (x) global and regional trade laws, regulations, and policies; (xi) 
governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies; (xii) global tax laws; (xiii) 
demand for food and bio-energy impacting farm commodity pricing and demand 
for the company’s products; (xiv) global political, economic, and social events and 
uncertainty; (xv) competitors actions and competitive pressures; (xvi) adapting 
products to customer preferences around the world; (xvii) infringement of the 
company’s intellectual property; (xviii) economic conditions weakening demand 
and/or limiting access to funding and higher funding costs; (xix) ability to realize 
the anticipated benefits of our business strategies including acquisitions, joint 
ventures, divestitures, or new product or efficiency initiatives; and (xx) impact of 
the COVID-19 and other pandemics on the company’s operations and strategies. 
The company, except as required by law, undertakes no obligation to update or 
revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new developments 
or otherwise. Further information concerning the company and its businesses, 
including factors that could materially affect the company’s financial results, is 
included in the company’s other filings with the SEC (including, but not limited to, 
the factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of the company’s most recent annual 
report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q).
GOVERNANCE
782020 2019 2018
Turnover Rate
      Overall 5.0% 4.7% ...
      Salaried 5.8% 3.3% 2.9%
      Production 4.2% 6.2% 5.8%
% of part time and student employees 1.4% ... ...
Training hours per FTE 1 9.8 ... ...
Total Recordable Incident Rate61.32 1.65 1.68
Lost Time Frequency Rate60.32 0.33 0.27
Fatality Rate60.001 ... ...
Near Miss Frequency Rate615.03 ... ...
# of ISO9001 manufacturing sites certified744 ... ...
Charitable Contributions (millions USD) $36.7 $ 3 7.8 $38.3
Charitable Contributions (% of Net Income) 1.4% 1.9% 2%
Volunteer Hours 123,033 215,262 185,830DATA TABLE Unless otherwise noted, all metrics are determined on a fiscal year basis.
4Unidentified indicates employees did not report
5Does not include administrative professionals
6Rate is per 100 employees
7Manufacturing correlates to definition in our Form 10-K
8US Only1Apex Companies, LLC has verified greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data in accordance with the ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas statements assurance standard and water and waste data in accordance  
with the ISAE 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information assurance standard. 
2Data associated with the operation of Unimil, PLA Holding Netherlands B. V . and King Agro Europa, S.L., and their related subsidiaries, and the Wirtgen Group entities are not included in the reported 2019 and 2020 metrics. In addition, data associated with the operation of Unimil, Mazzotti S.r.l. 
and Blue River Technology, Inc. are not included in the reported 2019 and 2020 occupational safety, water, and waste metrics. Scrap metal and foundry sand are excluded from waste metrics.
3Manufacturing correlates to definition in our Form 10-K ENVIRONMENTAL 2020 2019 2018
Energy Consumption (MWh) 3,090,000 3,480,000 3,550,000
% Renewable Electricity 32% 25% 24%
Scope 1 emissions (metric tons CO 2e)1,2333,000 388,000 386,000
Scope 2 (market-based) emissions (metric tons CO 2e)1,2433,000 533,000 581,000
Water Consumption (megaliters)220,246 23,000 24,500
% of Waste Recycled278% 78% 80%
Total Waste (metric tons)288,222 108,647 ...
Hazardous Waste (metric tons)27 ,999 13,360 ...
# of ISO14001 manufacturing sites certified313 ... ...
 SOCIAL 2020 2019 2018
Number of Employees 69,600 73,500 74,000
Gender Diversity Female Male Unidentified4Female Male Unidentified4Female Male Unidentified4
      Board of Directors 2 7. 3 % 72.7% ... 18.8% 81.2% ... ... ... ...
      Senior Management515.3% 84.7% ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
      Management 20.2% 79.8 % ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
      General Workforce 19 .2% 80.7% 0.1% 19 .4% 80.6% ... 19 .0%  81.0% ...
             Salaried 2 7.0 % 72.9% 0.1% 2 7.1 % 72.9% ... 2 7.1 % 72.9%  ...
             Production 11.6% 88.3% 0.1% 11.5%  88.5% ... 11.3% 88.7% ...
  GOVERNANCE 2020 2019 2018
Total Compliance Training Course Completions  
by Salaried Employees247,1 89 236,020 ...
# of suppliers 4,533 ... ...
# of supplier audits 402 ... ...Racial and Ethnic Diversity 2020 American Indian  
or AlaskanAsian Black or African 
AmericanHawaiian or Pacific 
IslanderHispanic or  
LatinoMultiple  
RacesWhite Unidentified4
      Board of Directors ... 9.1 % 18.2% ... ... ... 72.7% ...
      Senior Management5,8... 8.3% 6.7% ... 3.3% ... 81.7% ...
      Management80.4% 4.0% 2.7% 0.1% 2.6% 0.3% 89.5 % 0.4%
      General Workforce80.5% 3.3% 5.7% 0.1% 3.3% 0.5% 85.8% 0.8%
            Salaried80.3% 5.9% 2.6% 0.0% 3.1% 0.4% 86.7% 1.0%
            Production80.6% 0.7% 8.8% 0.1% 3.6% 0.6% 84.9% 0.7%
79Awards2019-2020
America’s Most JUST Companies  
 JUST 100 
Best Place to Work  
Glassdoor
Agritechnica Gold Medal Award  
John Deere eAutoPowr Transmission
Tech For a Better World, Innovation Award Honoree  
Consumer Electronics Show
Best of CES Sustainability Award  
GadgetMatch
Best Global Brands  
Interbrand
World’s Most Ethical Companies  
Ethisphere
Top Employer  
John Deere France (T op Employers Institute)
Best Workplaces for Innovators  
Fast Company
50 Sustainability & Climate Leader  
Bloomberg
8R Series Tractor Awards  
Red Dot Award  
iF Design Award  
Sustainability Product of the Y ear (Business Intelligence Group)
80