PEOPLE
PRIORITYARE OUR
2017
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORTDelta is in the business of  bringing people together .
It’s what we do when we fly customers to friends , family  
and colleagues  half a world away
When we keep our  employees safe  and recognize them  
for jobs well done
When we support charitable organizations  in our communities  
with our time, talent and resources  
And when we  operate sustainably , helping to ensure an enduring  
planet for all
For more than 90 years, every decision we’ve made has  put people first
Because at Delta, air travel is our business  
ButPEOPLE                PRIORITY ARE OURCEO Message ................................................................................................................................................. 3
Delta By-The-Numbers .............................................................................................................................. 4
Goals and Progress ...................................................................................................................................... 5
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals ............................................................................. 9
Talent & Culture .......................................................................................................................................... 10
Safety  ............................................................................................................................................................. 21
Customer Satisfaction  ............................................................................................................................. 31
Environmental Stewardship .................................................................................................................. 41
Community ................................................................................................................................................... 61
Appendix ...................................................................................................................................................... 69
GRI Index ...................................................................................................................................................... 82T ABLE       CONTENTS OFA Message From Ed
Taking care of people is the most important job we do at Delta. 
Whether it’s our employees, the 180 million customers who trust 
us with their travel each year, or the millions who make up the 
communities where we live, work and serve—making people our 
priority has always been the backdrop for all our efforts. 
At no other time has this been more apparent than in 2017—one of the 
best years in Delta's 90+ year history—when we continued investing 
billions of dollars not just in our employees through innovative tools 
and $1.1 billion in profit sharing, but in the products and services our 
customers have come to know and expect from Delta online, in our 
airports and on our aircraft. 
As we charged through 2017, our operational reliability reached new 
heights with an unprecedented 242 days without a cancelling a mainline 
flight. This, combined with harnessing customer insights to deliver 
more personalized service has meant our customer satisfaction scores 
continued climbing and employee satisfaction remained high as our 
people continued differentiating Delta on the global stage. 
Throughout the pages of this report you’ll find example after example 
of ways Delta is charting our own course forward to have a meaningful 
impact on the people we encounter, while mitigating the impact our 
business has on our environment for future generations. Some highlights 
from 2017 included: 
 »Reducing our global employee injury rate thanks to our LIVESAFE 
program that targets improvements in personal safety leadership, 
training and proactive intervention
 »Driving diversity and inclusion across Delta by providing front-line 
and executive training and signing on to the CEO Action for Diversity 
& Inclusion program to cultivate a workplace in which different points 
of view are welcome and employees feel encouraged to discuss 
diversity and inclusion topics
 »Providing more than $4 million in Red Cross relief efforts in the 
aftermath of hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria, and multiple 
earthquakes in Mexico in addition to Delta’s commitment to giving 
back 1 percent of our net income from the previous year to key 
charitable organizations through cash contributions and grants from 
The Delta Air Lines Foundation that exceeded $45 million in 2017
 »Developing meaningful technology through employee teams and 
our Global Innovation Center, The Hangar, to enhance the customer 
experience with features like the proprietary flight weather viewer that helps pilots avoid turbulence, biometric boarding passes, free 
in-flight mobile messaging, RFID bag tracking through the Fly Delta 
app, auto check-in and post-purchase upgrades
 »Launching Delta’s flagship onboard experience with the A350 and 
announcing the addition of the Airbus A220-100—both aircraft that 
will continue Delta’s environmental sustainability efforts to replace 
20 percent of our mainline fleet by 2020
 »Fuel-saving efforts that contributed to a 13.3 percent reduction in 
absolute emissions since 2005, putting us on track toward the goal of 
reducing emissions by 50 percent over 2005 levels by 2050
 »Voluntarily purchasing and retiring in total nearly 2.5 million offsets 
in 2017 as part of our effort to voluntarily reduce our total emissions 
to 2012 levels
 »“Up-cycling” thousands of wear-testing uniform samples as part of 
developing Delta’s new uniforms for 60,000 front-line employees
 »Implementing industry-leading operational recovery processes 
to lessen the impact of major weather events on customers and 
employees
 »Earning top employment awards from Fortune, Great Place to Work 
and Glassdoor 
At the core of every decision we make as a company is a strong set of 
core values set forth by our founder nearly 90 years ago. To care for 
our customers, our community and each other is defined as servant 
leadership, and is reflected in our commitment to being a good steward 
of the environment, a positive force in the communities we serve and 
a great place to work and fly. This concept will continue driving us 
forward in our mission to take care of people while being sustainable  
in all aspects of our business for decades to come. 
Ed Bastian  
Chief Executive Officer
CEO MESSAGE
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
3DEL TA BY-THE-NUMBERS
Delta By-The-Numbers
As a worldwide leader in the aviation industry, we provide scheduled air transportation for passengers and cargo 
throughout the United States and around the world. Delta is a founding member of the SkyTeam global alliance, 
and we participate in the industry’s leading trans-Atlantic joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia, as well as 
joint ventures with Virgin Atlantic, Virgin Australia and Aeromexico and entered into a joint venture with Korean 
Air that is subject to regulatory approval in Korea. Subsidiaries include Monroe Energy, LLC and Delta Global 
Services, LLC. A listing of Delta subsidiaries can be found in the Appendix. 
HEADQUARTERS
KEY HUBS  
& MARKETS800+ 15,000+
30652 6 Atlanta, GA
Countries Continents
DestinationsAircraft
(Mainline fleet)Daily Flights
(Including worldwide  
alliance partners)
 »Atlanta 
 »Boston
 »Detroit 
 »Los Angeles
 »Minneapolis–St. Paul »New York–John F. Kennedy
 »New York–LaGuardia
 »Salt Lake City 
 »Seattle
 »Amsterdam  »London–Heathrow 
 »Paris–Charles de Gaulle
 »Tokyo–Narita
delta.com
Delta News Hub: news.delta.com
Facebook.com/deltaTwitter.com/delta
Instagram.com/deltaAdditional information is available at:180+ M
Customers 80,000+
Employees
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
4Goals & Progress
In 2017 we aligned our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) with the environmental, social and governance issues 
that are most relevant to our business and set goals for each. The following are the results of our progress toward these 
2017 goals. More in-depth information on individual material issues and KPIs can be found throughout the 
report.
Talent & Culture
Safety
GOAL: GOAL: Employee Satisfaction
Customer Safety Employee SafetyWith an 87 percent return rate 
from Delta people all over the 
world, we surpassed our annual 
satisfaction rate goal by achieving 
87 percent satisfaction.
We achieved a slight 
reduction in global injury 
rate due to initiatives that 
targeted improvements in 
safety leadership, proactive 
intervention and training, 
standardized rules and 
processes and proactive 
injury management.GOAL: Achieve 85 percent employee satisfaction.
Proactively reduce risks by identifying, 
assessing, mitigating and/or eliminating 
hazards that may cause incidents, accidents or 
injuries to customers.Achieve word class personal safety performance 
with the goal of sending all Delta employees and 
business partners home safely.
Global Injury Rate201586%
201688% 87%Employee Satisfaction
201789%
2013 201484%
20153.54
20163.87 3.91Employee Safety
20174.03
20142%
Above Response Rate Goal2017 Employee 
Satisfaction SurveyGOALS & PROGRESS
Zero
Serious Customer 
Injuries
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
5GOALS & PROGRESS
Customer Satisfaction
Net Promoter Score (NPS) Customer Service
Since 2013, our NPS has improved by more than 10 percent, 
with a 1.4 percent improvement from 2016. This improvement 
reflects increasing brand relevance over the past five years. In 2017, Delta finished second among network carriers 
in the JD Power satisfaction survey, improving 33 points 
over 2016 and earning our highest score to date. GOAL:                      Short-Term: Consistent year-over-year  
growth from the 2016 baseline. Long-Term: Achieve 
a NPS of 50 percent.GOAL: Earn JD Power Award for Customer Service. 
Domestic Net Promoter Score
201533.5%
201637.8%41.5%Domestic Net Promoter Score
201740.1%
2013 201431.1% 2015693
2016709758Customer Service
2017725
2013 2014682
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
6Climate Change
IATA-ALIGNED GOAL:
IATA-ALIGNED GOAL:
IATA-ALIGNED GOAL:Fuel Efficiency
Carbon Neutral GrowthOverall fuel efficiency has improved by 8 percent based on revenue miles 
since 2009, and 6.2 percent based on gallons per 1,000 Available Seat 
Miles (ASM) since 2009. Delta continues to pursue initiatives to enhance 
fuel efficiency toward achieving IATA goals. 
Since 2005, absolute emissions have been 
reduced by 13 percent. Fuel savings in 2017 
avoided emissions of 19,000 metric tons CO2e.Short-Term: Improve fuel efficiency an average of 1.5 percent per year from  
2009 to 2020.
Medium-Term: Cap net international aviation CO2 emissions from 2020.  RTM: Gallons per 100 Revenue Ton Miles
  ASM: Gallons per 1,000 Available Seat Miles
Absolute Emissions Reduction
Long-Term: Reduce net aviation CO2 emissions 50 percent by 2050, relative to  
2005 levels.2015 2016XXXFuel Efficiency
2017 2014 200915.7216.1716.7316.81
15.7216.07
15.7415.87
15.3915.76
Gallons per 100 Revenue Ton Miles (RTM)
Gallons per 1,000 Available Seat Miles (ASM)
In Millions of Metric T ons of CO2201538.9
201639.7 40.2Absolute Emissions Reduction
201740.0
2005 201446.2In Millions of Metric Tons of CO2Over the past five years, we have successfully grown our 
business without growing our carbon emissions, thanks to 
fuel-efficiency initiatives and carbon offset purchases. 
  EMISSIONS
  OFFSETS
2016XXXCarbon Neutral Growth
2017 2014 2015 2005N/A46.1
38.9
1.239.7
2.140.0
2.340.2
2.5
Emissions         OffsetsIn Millions of Metric Tons of CO2e
In Millions of Metric T ons of CO2GOALS & PROGRESS
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
7GOALS & PROGRESS
Nonhazardous Waste GenerationThe annual variability of spills is due to the growth in operational 
events and variations in the frequency of fueling, fleet type, deicing 
events and other maintenance activities. Annual variability will 
continue to affect this metric on a year-over-year basis.
Reduce year-over-year waste generation.Environmental Compliance
RECYCLED LANDFILLED UPCYCLED
GOAL: GOAL: Environmental Notices of ViolationSpills
Hazardous Waste Generation
The expansion of maintenance operations and improvements to 
our maintenance service offerings to external customers resulted 
in an increase in hazardous waste generation during 2017. Not to exceed three Notices.GOAL: Experience no more than 87 combined Class I and Class II spills annually. 
GOAL: 
Reduce year-over-year waste generation.201581
201695 93Spills
201791
2013 201478Non-Hazardous Waste Generation
20151,085
20161,3101,529
20171,124
2013 2014827
20151,405
20161,465
1,135
20171,646
2013 20141,105
201543
201617 19
201723
2013 2014NA
20155
20167
3Environmental Notices of Violation
20172
2013 20144
2015509
2016446477Hazardous Waste Generation
2017432
2013 2014591In Tons
In T onsIn T ons In T ons In T ons
In 2017, overall recycling increased while landfill decreased.
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
8UNSDG
Common Goals
The United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) engage organizations across all sectors to help 
end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. Delta is committed to supporting those goals that  
most closely align with our business. 
•  Provide over 80,000 jobs throughout our global operations
•  Rank consistently on national lists for employee engagement
•  Provide competitive benefits and compensation
•  Share profits with employees, averaging approximately $1 billion annually over the past two years 
•  Invest in the individual potential of employees through training and development programs
• Establish processes and encourage practices to ensure a safe workplace
• Invest in innovative technology, such as biometrics, to enhance safety, security and the customer experience
• Collaborate with regulatory and government agencies to deploy new technologies that enhance flight safety
  
• Promote a culture of diversity and inclusion through Business Resource Groups that count more than 15,000 members
• Support industry workplace diversity initiatives, such as the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion
• Committed to gender pay parity and spousal benefits for same-sex couples and their children
• Maintain a robust supplier diversity program
• Provide affordable air transport to facilitate cultural understanding and exchange
• Enable travel for those who are disabled or have medical conditions
• Enable global travel through the availability of affordable air transport
• Support local communities where we live, work, and serve through The Delta Air Lines Foundation
• Promote community engagement through our three key pillars of Education, Health & Wellness, and Armed Service Members & Veterans
• Work with our suppliers to increase the efficiency of our aircraft through lightweighting and aircraft replacements 
• Upcycle aircraft, aircraft parts, and uniforms through programs such as re:loom
• Promote our headquarters and in-flight commingled recycling program in 35 destination cities 
• Comply with all environmental regulations in the areas of air quality, aircraft drinking water, and waste 
• Committed to and have achieved carbon neutral growth for five consecutive years
•  Aligned with International Air Transport Association on short-, medium-and long-term goals to improve fuel efficiency, achieve carbon 
neutral growth, and reduce carbon emissions
• Purchase and retire more than 2.5 million carbon offsets in 2017 
• Work with suppliers to increase the fuel efficiency of aircraft and implement fuel-saving flight procedures
• Engage producers in support of alternative aviation fuels
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
9Talent
& Culture
IN THIS CHAPTER
Living the Delta Difference ............... 13
Rewarding Employees  
for Great Work  ...................................... 15
Top Talent for a Top Airline ............... 17
A Culture of Diversity,  
Inclusion & Equality ............................ 19
In 2017 , Forbes published the W20 Group’s list of the 15 Most Relevant Brands in America, adding to the headline, 
“Number 11 Will Surprise You.” Number 11 was none other than Delta, the only airline among a list of leading 
technology companies and other top consumer brands.
“The airline makes the cut in large part due to the incredibly strong 
showing from employees as they discuss life at Delta, the operating 
culture and company values,” the publication wrote. The ranking 
may have come as a surprise to list makers, but not to Delta. While 
culture is a new area of emphasis for many companies, it’s been the 
heart of Delta’s business model for 90 years. 
Our long history of building and nurturing our culture has earned us 
deep emotional connections with our employees and shared values 
of integrity and respect. We nurture these connections through 
ongoing and active listening, including formal mechanisms, such as 
our annual employee engagement survey, and a variety of informal 
measures. And we share our success with the people who make it possible, as evidenced by our attractive total rewards package and 
industry-leading profit-sharing program.
Delta consistently ranks on national lists for both employee 
engagement and customer loyalty. This is no accident. Satisfied 
employees make for satisfied customers, which in turn make us 
a more successful business. The fuel for this virtuous cycle is our 
investment in our people. We will continue this journey by putting 
people first: refining our talent attraction and retention practices, 
rewarding high performance, providing opportunities to learn and 
develop, and cultivating a diverse and inclusive place to work. Talent & Culture
Employee and Customer Satisfaction Recognition 
Certified Company  
2017–2018
86,498*
Global Employees
41%**
U.S. Ethnic MinoritiesTALENT & CUL TURE    
*Delta mainline active employees as of 12/28/2017  
**Delta mainline active employees as of 12/28/2017. Excludes people who did not report their ethnicity.Fortune  
100 Best Companies  
to Work for 2017
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
11“ No one individual can create an airline. 
An airline is a team. It must be a friendly, 
courteous, cooperative and efficient team, 
bound as closely as a devoted family.”
    C.E. Woolman
   Founder, Delta Air Lines 
A Closer Look at Delta PeopleTALENT & CUL TURE      A Closer Look at Delta People         
MALE 60.8%
FEMALE 39.2%Hires 
MALE          59%
FEMALE     41%Attrition AIRPORT  
CUSTOMER SERVICE 33%
IN-FLIGHT SERVICE 25%
FLIGHT OPERATIONS 16%
TECHNICAL OPERATIONS 12%
RESERVATIONS 6%
CORPORATE 6%
CARGO 2%Operational Division 
<30 47.4%
30–39 30.6%
40–49 15.3%
50–59 6.0%
60+ 0.7%New Hires by Age 
<30 32%
30–39 20%
40–49 14%
50–59 14%
60+ 20%Attrition by Age MALE          59%
FEMALE     41%Employees by GenderEmployees by Gender
2017 Hires2017Employees by Region
2017Operational Division
2017
2017
2017 Attrition
20172017 New Hires by Age
2017
2017 Attrition by Age
2017UNITED STATES 96.4%
ASIA-PACIFIC                         1.6%
LATIN AMERICA                   0.9%
CANADA & CARIBBEAN    0.6% 
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST  
& AFRICA                                 0.5%Employees by Region Employees by Gender
2017 Hires2017Employees by Region
2017Operational Division
2017
2017
2017 Attrition
20172017 New Hires by Age
2017
2017 Attrition by Age
2017Employees by Gender
2017 Hires2017Employees by Region
2017Operational Division
2017
2017
2017 Attrition
20172017 New Hires by Age
2017
2017 Attrition by Age
2017Employees by Gender
2017 Hires2017Employees by Region
2017Operational Division
2017
2017
2017 Attrition
20172017 New Hires by Age
2017
2017 Attrition by Age
2017Employees by Gender
2017 Hires2017Employees by Region
2017Operational Division
2017
2017
2017 Attrition
20172017 New Hires by Age
2017
2017 Attrition by Age
2017Employees by Gender
2017 Hires2017Employees by Region
2017Operational Division
2017
2017
2017 Attrition
20172017 New Hires by Age
2017
2017 Attrition by Age
2017Employees by Gender
2017 Hires2017Employees by Region
2017Operational Division
2017
2017
2017 Attrition
20172017 New Hires by Age
2017
2017 Attrition by Age
2017
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
12Living the Delta Difference
The “Delta Difference” separates us from our competitors. Since 1929, Delta people have worked diligently to build 
our record for delivering safe, high-quality service and for acting with honesty, integrity and professionalism in all  
we do. We are proud of this legacy.
Three key documents describe and reinforce the fundamental values 
and basic behaviors required of all Delta employees, as well as what 
employees can expect of Delta in return. These documents are 
the centerpiece of our companywide compliance program and are 
supported by our Board of Directors and senior officers. They are: 
 »Rules of the Road, the foundation of our core values and 
principles, which define clear unifying behaviors of our culture  
and outline expectations for modeling leadership at every level  
of the company. 
 »The Way We Fly helps us put our culture into practice by 
outlining basic expectations of trust, dignity, respect, common 
sense and good judgment. 
 »The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct provides our 
employees, our subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide with a 
summary of standards for business conduct. The Code also 
describes some of the resources available that help us maintain 
our standards. The Code helps ensure that our actions never fall 
short of our legal and ethical commitments.
One of the ways we help to create a great place to work is by 
maintaining an open-door policy. Each employee is proactively 
encouraged and expected to raise concerns if they become 
aware of practices or work environments that do not meet 
Delta’s expectations, particularly issues of safety, harassment 
and discrimination. We encourage employees to speak to their 
immediate leaders about questions or concerns, but they can  
also report concerns through the following channels: 
 »Divisional and corporate leadership
 »Human Resources professionals
 »The Equal Opportunity department 
 »Safety, Ethics & Compliance HelpLine 
We do not tolerate hostility, harassment, unwelcome sexual 
advances or other unprofessional conduct under any circumstances. 
As reports of sexual harassment and other acts of misconduct 
make national headlines, Delta has reinforced our commitment 
to appropriate behavior—and swift response in the event of 
wrongdoing. We aim to create an atmosphere in which employees 
at every level of the company have confidence to raise concerns regarding discrimination, harassment or intimidation. From there, 
Delta puts words into action by investigating those concerns quickly 
and fairly, always ensuring that the employees who raise concerns 
suffer no adverse consequences from doing so. 
The Delta Safety, Ethics & Compliance HelpLine makes it easy 
to report conduct that may be unethical, illegal, a violation of 
professional standards or contradictory to Delta’s Code of Ethics 
and Business Conduct. Using the HelpLine, employees can speak up 
about concerns, including those regarding safety, labor practices, 
harassment or discrimination. 
Examples of activity that could be reported include:
 »Creating or ignoring safety hazards
 »Insider trading
 »Accounting or auditing irregularities
 »Use, sale or transportation of illegal drugs
 »Physically harming or harassing others
 »Ticket, credit card or SkyMiles fraud
 »Information leaks
 »Vandalism or sabotage
The HelpLine is available to employees, customers, vendors and  
other third parties in a business relationship with Delta, and 
operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It is answered by 
a third-party operator. All calls to the HelpLine can be made 
anonymously, and procedures ensure that confidentiality will  
be maintained to an extent consistent with Delta’s obligations  
under the law. 
When EthicsPoint, our HelpLine provider, receives a notification, it 
is reviewed by the HelpLine paralegal and attorney responsible for 
HelpLine calls. They determine where to direct the report, whether 
to an investigator, Delta’s General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer 
or, when appropriate, the Board of Directors.
Each month, the HelpLine Attorney and HelpLine Paralegal meet 
with representatives from Human Resources, Equal Opportunity, 
Compliance, Corporate Safety and Regulatory Compliance to 
review the information gathered during investigations and assist, 
if necessary, in developing responses. The caller is notified when 
an investigation has concluded. Depending on an investigation’s TALENT & CUL TURE      Living the Delta Difference            
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
13outcome, remedial action may also be taken. This could include 
policy clarification, process revision, additional training, coaching 
sessions or disciplinary action, up to and including termination.  
All allegations received through the HelpLine are tracked to inform 
trend analysis.
The HelpLine supports Delta’s commitment to providing a safe 
and secure operation—our most fundamental commitment to our customers, employees and the communities we serve. We do not 
retaliate against any employee who reports a conduct violation in  
good faith.
Delta also provides antibribery and anticorruption training to all 
Delta personnel and agents who may interact with foreign officials 
on Delta matters. Training available to employees is provided in 
person to supplement mandatory online training.
Saying a Big “Thank You!”
A small “thank you” can go a long way. But as Delta headed 
into the busy summer 2017 travel season, we decided a 
big “thank you”was more in order—one in which we used a 
Facebook Live event to individually recognize by name our 
more than 80,000 employees worldwide.
More than 430 celebrities, athletes and business leaders 
from Delta and its global partners in 20 cities around the world took turns reading names. Familiar faces included 
Jeff Foxworthy, Sean Astin, Anthony Anderson, the cast 
of “Stranger Things,” Chelsea Football Club, Dr. Bernice 
King, Miss America and more. The event lasted more than 
50 hours, one of the longest in Facebook Live history. 
Employees could log in to a microsite to find out when 
their name would be announced.PRIORITY: All Delta People Worldwide
TALENT & CUL TURE      Living the Delta Difference            
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
14 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Rewarding Employees  
for Great Work 
Our success as a business depends on every Delta employee at every level, and we believe in rewarding them for 
the success they help to create. Our competitive and generous compensation philosophy is also designed to help 
us recruit and retain talented employees. 
Delta employees are grouped into two categories for compensation 
purposes: scale and merit employees. The latter includes a broad 
mix of leaders and individual contributors who are paid a salary. We 
track pay for merit employees by using data to benchmark relative to 
their peers at Delta and across multiple industries. Merit employees’ 
job performance is evaluated based on skill, experience, innovation, 
effort and leadership.
Scale employees, who include pilots, flight attendants, maintenance 
technicians, baggage handlers and others, are paid an hourly wage. Delta's 
leadership position in the industry allows us to pay scale employees 
competitively and reward excellent performance. We offer pay premiums 
based on job function and work rules that provide a balance of flexibility, 
productivity and quality of work life. Benefits are competitive and 
flexible and include paid time off, retirement savings and comprehensive 
healthcare coverage.For all employees, competitive base pay is one piece of a larger 
compensation pie that includes added rewards and benefits. Our 
profit sharing program is one of the most generous in the industry 
and recognizes our employees’ contributions in meeting Delta’s 
financial targets. Over the past five years, we have paid out more 
than $5 billion through the program, more than any other company. 
This plan, combined with highly competitive base pay and monthly 
Shared Rewards bonuses paid for meeting operational targets, has 
resulted in an 80 percent increase in total annual compensation 
since 2008. Our people can further share in our financial success 
through an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). This plan allows 
employees to use payroll deductions to purchase Delta stock. 
The Shared Rewards program helps incentivize employees to 
deliver safe, on-time, best-in-class travel to our customers. Eligible 
employees can earn a monthly cash bonus based on achieving the 
specific operational goals in the categories of baggage handling, 
completion factor, on-time arrivals and domestic net promoter 
score. Employees earn $25 for meeting or exceeding one goal,  
TALENT & CUL TURE      Rewarding Employees for Great Work             
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
15$50 for two, $75 for three and $100 for all four, with a maximum 
payout of $1,200 per year for U.S.-based employees. Eligible 
international employees participate in Shared Rewards with target 
payout values appropriate for each country.
Delta supports flexible employment arrangements. Ready Reserve 
employees are eligible to work fewer weekly hours; receive competitive 
pay, profit sharing, Shared Rewards, 401(k) savings and travel privileges; 
but in most locations are not eligible to participate in health and welfare 
plans. The Reservation Sales Work @ Home program allows Ready 
Reserve employees to receive the same benefits as full-time employees 
without the time and expense of traveling between home and the 
engagement center. Employees must live within a three-hour drive of  
the center to be eligible.
Delta employees also care deeply for one another, as seen through 
the work of two internal funds created by employees, for employees. 
The Employee & Retiree Care Fund supports individuals who suffer 
from severe financial hardship resulting from unforeseen and 
unavoidable crises such as natural disasters. This fund distributed 
nearly $4 million to employees in 2017. The Delta Scholarship Fund 
helps employees and eligible family members achieve their dreams 
of earning an advanced degree. The Delta Scholarship Fund has 
awarded more than $5 million in scholarships since it launched in 
2008, and 591 employees and dependents received funding for  
the 2017–2018 school year. 
Executive compensation is aligned with compensation for all Delta 
employees but is also dependent on the airline's performance, which 
includes environmental, social and governance factors. The Personnel 
& Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors sets evaluation criteria and compensation for the CEO and reviews and approves 
compensation for other officers. The Committee also produces an 
annual report on executive compensation for inclusion in Delta’s  
proxy statement, in accordance with SEC rules and regulations.
TALENT & CUL TURE      Rewarding Employees for Great Work             
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
16T op Talent for a T op Airline 
For 90 years, Delta has fostered one of the most engaged and loyal workforces of any airline in the world. To  
continue our tradition of excellence, we follow a human capital development strategy that is rooted in our shared 
values of honesty, integrity, respect, perseverance and servant leadership. We work hard to hire people steeped in 
these values so they can help perpetuate our unique culture. Delta reinforces these values through an experiential 
onboarding process, continuous development and coaching opportunities, recognition for hard work and an 
industry-leading compensation philosophy. 
We continue to update those strategies to keep pace with workplace 
trends. Today’s job seekers are looking for positions that did not exist a 
decade ago and are finding information about these jobs in new ways. 
They want careers that are dynamic with the opportunity to develop and 
take on new roles over time. Delta, too, has evolved over time. We are in 
a strong financial position with goals of becoming one of the top service 
brands in any industry. These aspirations demand top talent to match. 
Industry dynamics also drive recruitment efforts. As more people 
embrace air travel, we require more employees to support seasonal surges 
in demand and respond to new risks. Recruiting the next generation of 
employees to replace those retiring from key technical roles—especially 
pilots and mechanics—is also a major focus. In the coming years, we 
plan to hire approximately 5,000 employees annually. We find talent by 
publishing all positions on both our internal and external career websites. 
We also invest in recruitment marketing initiatives such as targeted 
advertising, social media outreach and employee referrals, and we create 
partnerships with community-based organizations and institutions, as 
well as state and local workforce agencies. 
An important way we will retain the brightest talent is by providing 
opportunities to grow within Delta. That’s why we’ve invested $50 million 
to modernize our human resources technology offerings, including those 
supporting career development. Today, we provide a range of talent 
development opportunities, including mandatory compliance training, 
new hire training and general professional development. We also support 
employees informally with coaching, mentoring and performance 
support as needed. A new online learning database allows employees to view all resources that Delta offers in one place, from webinars to in-
person workshops. Delta will also launch a customer experience training 
for front-line employees following the success of a 2017 pilot program. 
CAREER GROWTH THROUGH PERFORMANCE REVIEWS 
Every year, merit employees, who make up 10.9 percent of our 
workforce, participate in a performance management process which 
helps support their career development goals. In fact, 8,436, or 
87.7 percent, of merit employees completed these reviews in 2017. 
Employees receive feedback on whether their outputs over the 
past year support Delta’s goals and Rules of the Road. Performance 
ratings have been eliminated in Delta’s merit population in order to 
support a focus on development and an increasingly cross-divisional, 
collaborative way of working. Merit employees are evaluated on the 
basis of what they achieve against their goals and their alignment to 
the Rules of the Road. The new performance management process 
encourages ongoing conversations about employee performance and 
development goals so that employees know where they stand and have 
development conversations that are timely and open. Merit employees 
now have ongoing check-in conversations focusing on goals, feedback, 
career development and strategies for improvement. 
 »Performance Planning—Employees create performance 
objectives aligned to the goals of their manager, division and the 
overall corporation. Individual Development Plans are utilized to 
ensure employees can meet these goals and are aligned to Delta’s 
Rules of the Road. 
Training Hours per Employee by Division
AIRPORT  
CUSTOMER 
SERVICECARGOFLIGHT  
OPERATIONSIN-FLIGHT 
SERVICERESERVATIONSTECHNICAL 
OPERATIONSCORPORATE
Merit 36.9 16.3 9.7 10.5 16.3 29.7 7.0
Front-line 24.3 25.0 39.8 8.2 25.1 60.5 6.4TALENT & CUL TURE      Top Talent for a Top Airline             
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
17TALENT & CUL TURE      Top Talent for a Top Airline              »Ongoing Check-In Conversations—Throughout the year, 
employees and managers have conversations on the progress 
being made toward goals and an employee’s development. 
 »Year-End Conversations—During the last quarter, a final 
check-in conversation occurs to review an employee’s progress 
over the last year toward goals achievement and to ensure individual performance and alignment with behaviors in Delta's 
Rules of the Road. 
Beyond formal performance management, feedback and coaching 
conversations are scheduled quarterly to ensure employees have 
the guidance and information to continuously grow.
Winging Girls to a Future In Aviation
Commercial airline flight decks across the U.S. have a 
problem: only 5.14 percent of pilots are female. Girls and 
women are not often encouraged to pursue careers in 
aviation, and they have few female role models to look 
up to in the industry.
Delta is trying to change that through Women Inspiring 
Our Next Generation (WING), a day-long program to 
expose girls to aviation careers. In 2017, the third year 
of the program, we flew 115 girls between the ages of 12 
and 18 from Atlanta to Pensacola, where they explored 
the National Flight Academy. From gate agents in the 
terminal to the pilots and flight attendants onboard the 
aircraft, to the ramp agents loading and unloading the 
plane to the dispatchers tracking the flight from Delta's operations center, the flight was entirely crewed by 
women employees. 
Throughout their day at the Flight Academy, the girls tried 
out different roles. They were given a chance to navigate 
as a team, communicate as a team and fly an actual route 
as a team in Naval simulators. Students also heard from 
accomplished Delta women about careers in aviation, 
including as pilots, mechanics, engineers, technicians, IT 
specialists, communicators and reservations agents. 
Delta plans to hire more than 25,000 employees over the 
next five years. Through programs like WING, we hope to 
ensure that many more positions will be filled by women—
from the engineering department to the flight deck. PRIORITY: Future Female Aviators  
18 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.A Culture of Diversity, Inclusion  
& Equality
To serve the world, we must reflect its diversity and be a model for inclusiveness. As reflected in our Rules of the 
Road, Delta embraces diverse people, thinking and styles, and we treat each other with dignity and respect. These 
values are important both inside and outside of the company and help foster a safe and professional workplace that 
promotes teamwork and trust. 
Delta’s diversity and inclusion strategy focuses on three strategic 
imperatives: seeking diversity, promoting inclusion and driving 
accountability. Diversity is the mix, inclusion is finding value in the 
mix, and accountability is the sustaining factor for both. With efforts 
including renewed recruitment strategies, an increased focus on pipeline 
development, inclusion training for more than 5,000 employees and 
diversity-focused development sessions for more than 300 leaders, 
Delta’s 2017 efforts concentrated on building a solid foundation for 
seeking diversity and driving inclusion. 
Underscoring our commitment to diversity, Delta CEO Ed Bastian 
signed on to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, a CEO-
driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace. As a collaborative group of more than 175 CEOs 
and presidents at many of the world’s leading companies, the 
leaders have agreed to take action to cultivate a workplace in 
which different points of view are welcome and employees feel 
encouraged to discuss diversity and inclusion topics. 
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is reflected in our policies, 
including providing spousal benefits for eligible, legally married 
same-sex couples and their children. Another important example is 
our commitment to gender pay parity. Delta conducts periodic pay 
reviews to take a closer look at equal pay among men and women 
and address any equity issues. During the company’s most recent 
review, Delta achieved complete pay parity for men and women 
Diversity and Inclusion Recognition 
Best Workplace for  
Diversity 2017
Best Workplace  
for Women 2017
Best Place to Work for  
LGBTQ Equality 2018
Military Friendly  
Employer 2018  
Victory Media  
Best Place to Work for  
Disability Inclusion 2017  
(Perfect Score)
America’s Best  
Large Employers 2017
Workforce Magazine  
TALENT & CUL TURE      A Culture of Diversity, Inclusion & Equality          
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
19Serving as a Resource for Business and Individuals
A few months after the tragic 2016 shooting at Pulse 
nightclub in Orlando, Florida, Mathew Palmer received 
a phone call: “My son just came out to me. I don’t know 
what to do.” Calls like this aren’t unusual for Palmer, 
a New York–based flight attendant who supports the 
airline’s LGBTQ community. EQUAL is an employee 
group committed to promoting inclusion, respect for 
differences, equal opportunity and workplace diversity, 
and serves as a champion for LGBTQ employees and  
their allies.
But this was different, Palmer said. Although the caller 
was a fellow Delta employee, he was also a stranger, 
trusting Palmer with a truly intimate matter. “He was 
worried,” Palmer says. “But what started out as a 
reluctant acceptance turned into genuine understanding. 
The more we talked, the more comfortable he became.”
Interactions like these are exactly what EQUAL is about. 
Many at Delta know EQUAL for its support of Pride 
events around the world. In 2017, EQUAL, in partnership 
with Delta’s Community Engagement team, participated 
in 16 Pride initiatives, from the Nashville Pride Walk to 
Pride in London. But these events are only one part of  
the group’s purpose.“We want employees and the business to see us for what 
we are—a business resource group. Whether it’s a parent 
with a child who has just come out, or an employee who 
needs assistance, we want people to know that we’re 
here to help,” Palmer says. EQUAL has advised Delta 
on policies of interest to LGBTQ employees, such as 
health benefits for same-sex couples. The group also 
raises money and volunteers for organizations such as 
Jerusalem House, a nonprofit that provides housing to 
low-income and homeless people affected by HIV/AIDS; 
The Trevor Project, a toll-free hotline for LGBTQ youth; 
and PFLAG, an advocacy group for LGBTQ people and 
their family, friends and allies.
Employee resource groups like EQUAL offer essential 
perspective for all employees at Delta—allowing us to 
better take better care of our people, our customers  
and the communities we serve.PRIORITY: LGBTQ Employees and Allies  in administrative and front-line jobs.  Maintaining pay parity is an 
ongoing effort, and Delta remains fully committed to maintaining 
parity as our employee base continues to change and grow. 
Delta is committed to providing a workplace that is free from 
discrimination. This means we recruit, hire, train and promote 
without regard to a person’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, pregnancy, disability, genetic 
information, age, veteran status, citizen status, marital or familial 
status, or political affiliation. As an equal-opportunity employer, 
all employment decisions, including compensation decisions, are 
based on legitimate work-related criteria. This includes providing 
reasonable accommodation for employees’ disabilities and pregnancies, and religious beliefs and practices. Our employees 
help promote a culture of diversity and inclusion through Business 
Resource Groups (BRGs). With a strong focus on inclusion, Delta 
experienced unprecedented growth of its BRGs in 2017, now totaling 
more than 15,000 members. All BRGs have an overall mission aligned 
with Delta’s business strategy, and are important resources for market 
research, professional development, recruitment and retention of 
diverse employees. Our current BRGs represent groups aligned with 
disabilities and accessibility; Asian and Pacific Islander employees; 
Black employees; LGBTQ employees; multigenerational workgroups; 
Latin American and Hispanic employees; veterans; working families; 
women and employees interested in environmental sustainability.TALENT & CUL TURE      A Culture of Diversity, Inclusion & Equality          
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
20 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. Safety
IN THIS CHAPTER
Reducing Injury at Work ................... 23
Safer in the Skies ................................. 25
A Foundation for Safety .................... 26
Ensuring Secure Flights &  
Rapid Emergency Response ............ 27
Protecting Customer Health ............ 28
Handling Potentially 
Dangerous Goods ................................ 29
Safety Across Our Network .............. 30
Safety
Delta’s #1 Core Value is “Put Safety First—Always.” The safety framework at Delta is supported by a robust Safety 
Management System that is integrated into our business and built on elements including Policy, Risk Management, 
Assurance, Promotion, Leadership, and Continuous Improvement. The SMS supports Delta employees as they make 
risk-based decisions and proactively manage risks to address hazards that could lead to injuries, damages or harm 
each day.
In 2017, we renewed our focus on safety with a new tagline: 
“LIVESAFE—At Work, At Home, At Play.” This message reflects our 
understanding that safety matters beyond the workplace, and the 
only way for us to create lasting change is to help employees make 
safe behaviors part of their daily habits.
Delta is further integrating safety into our human resources, supply 
chain and finance processes, using what we call the CARE Model. 
The model was developed for Delta but is based on industry best 
practices in safety competencies and behaviors:
 »Communicate Safety Expectations
 »Assess Risks
 »Reinforce Safety Behaviors
 »Engage EmployeesThe CARE Model is a way to integrate safety into the end-to-end 
employee management process, from hiring to retiring. In 2018, 
we plan to begin using the model in our performance evaluation 
process. The Delta Supply Chain team is focused on forging stronger 
safety partnerships with our contractors and suppliers and ensuring 
transparency of safety performance. Finally, by taking a risk-based 
view of our safety incidents and injuries, we are ensuring critical safety 
investments are built into the capital expenditure planning process.
In our journey of continuous improvement, Delta not only collaborates 
and benchmarks with airlines around the globe—there is no competition 
when it comes to safety—but actively does the same with major global 
employers in other industries, with the ultimate goal of achieving 
world-class performance in personal safety. 
47.7%↑
Delta Days Away Restricted 
Transferred Rate
Delta's TRIR is
47.2%
better than industry average0
Work-related  
fatalities3.905
Total Recordable Injury Rate 
(TRIR), a 3% decrease over 2016SAFETY     
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
22SAFETY      Reducing Injury at Work             Reducing Injury at Work
Employees across Delta are trained in the safety challenges and risks unique to their divisions. Each division,  
from Airport Customer Service (ACS) to Cargo to Flight Operations to In-Flight Service to Technical Operations (TechOps), 
has developed a distinct set of “lifesaving rules” designed to prevent the most significant injuries to employees.
Many of these rules, such as wearing a seatbelt in any vehicle equipped 
with one, are simple—but we know they can make a big difference. For 
example, TechOps and ACS both have requirements to prevent falls 
from height, recognizing we regularly work at heights above four feet, 
where a fall could have serious consequences. 
Another way we frame safety for employees is by stressing the 
power of “and,” showing our teams how they can provide great 
service and on-time performance and stay safe. In this way, we 
believe we can engage all employees as safety champions for 
themselves and for our customers, ensuring safe operations and 
striving to eliminate personal injuries. 
With lifesaving rules as a baseline for behavior, we have taken 
further measures to reduce injuries. For example, ergonomic injuries 
continue to be the most common across all our divisions. These 
injuries can be minimized with proper warm-up and stretching 
routines, which we have rolled out among select teams in ACS and 
TechOps. At multiple locations, including Atlanta, Minneapolis and 
Los Angeles, we have also established athletic trainers in the station, 
allowing our people to address pain or discomfort before it becomes 
a serious problem. 
We also continue to search for equipment to improve ergonomics 
across our operations. This includes relatively low-technology solutions 
such as cart casters to enhance movement in our maintenance shops 
and PowerStow belt loaders that convey baggage directly into cargo 
bins, thereby minimizing human intervention. 
In the event of an incident, we have introduced improved tools 
to determine root causes and solutions, including the TapRooT 
and Human Factors Analysis and Classification System (HFACS) 
investigation tools. We launched RiskNet to maintain our safety 
risk assessments any time we implement a new policy, procedure 
or piece of equipment, to ensure risks are identified and mitigated 
early in the process. 
We completed several Safety Workouts in 2017. These are events 
that bring employees together for three days to offer their insights on safety issues. Employees identify hazards or challenges they 
experience on the job, then work to generate solutions to mitigate 
them. At the end of the Workout, employees present their ideas to 
a panel of Delta’s top executives, who decide whether to implement 
the recommendations.
RECOGNIZING SAFE FACILITIES 
Quality Assurance conducts onsite visits, reviews required 
documentation and interviews employees to confirm that safety 
expectations are being met.  Delta also complies with new OSHA 
regulations, such as the Final Rule for Walking-Working Surfaces 
and Fall Protection Standards, finalized in 2017. 
Delta is the only major airline with OSHA’s Corporate VPP status. Delta 
has 20 VPP Star locations in the United States. VPP is not an award, but 
an acknowledgment of commitment to continuously improving our 
employees’ safety at work. Across more than 5.6 million U.S. worksites, 
less than one-tenth of 1 percent share the VPP Star distinction. 
At Delta’s VPP sites, the rate of on-the-job injury and illness is far 
lower than the industry average: 1.34 injuries per 100 employees, 
compared to the air transportation industry average of 7.41. In 
addition, the OSHA recordable injury rate at our VPP facilities is  
55 percent better than non-VPP Delta sites and 82 percent better 
than the industry average. 
1 Based on a comparison using NAICS 481111
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
23Making Safety Personal
Delta continues to engage all employees on safety 
through activities such as National Safety Month and, for 
the first time in 2017, a companywide Safety Day. On this 
day, every Delta employee was engaged in two safety-
building activities. First, we asked employees, “Who do 
you stay safe for?” People answered this question by 
bringing in photographs of their families, pets, friends 
and more—their reasons for keeping out of harm’s way. The second activity was a personal commitment to 
safety, during which we asked employees to write down 
a single thing they could commit to doing differently to 
keep themselves safer. Employees found these exercises 
to be incredibly impactful, and we will continue to use 
Safety Day as an opportunity to make safety personal.PRIORITY: Front-Line Employees
SAFETY      Reducing Injury at Work  
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
24Safer in the Skies
Ensuring the health, safety and security of our customers is paramount. To fulfill this promise to our customers 
while providing the highest levels of service in the air and on the ground, we ensure that all safety policies and 
procedures either meet or exceed the best safety practices of the airline industry.
In most cases, our proactive safety culture allows us to exceed 
regulatory standards. The goal of Delta’s Flight Safety Program is to 
identify and eliminate hazards before they cause injuries to people 
or damage to aircraft or facilities. This includes both how we operate 
aboard our aircraft and how we respond to external risks and that 
could affect data. 
Onboard recorders measure thousands of aircraft parameters, 
producing enormous amounts of data that allow us to identify 
vulnerabilities and areas for improvement. The data we gather is also 
used to produce animated videos that we use for training purposes. 
Delta has invested in technology that greatly expands our pilots’ 
awareness of turbulence and other weather. We participated in a collaborative project with the FAA and the National Center 
for Atmospheric Research that developed a product called Eddy 
Dissipation Rate (EDR). EDR provides real-time depictions of the 
location and severity of turbulence in a given area, allowing pilots 
to adjust routes as needed to reduce the potential for an injury and 
improve customers’ in-flight experience.
Flight Operational Quality Assurance (FOQA) is the program we use 
to ensure the safety and efficiency of flights. The success of FOQA 
requires the cooperation of diverse stakeholders and is a testament to 
the strength of relationships and safety focus of the management and 
labor teams at Delta. Additionally, we use this valuable information for 
predictive maintenance, propulsion engineering and fuel savings.SAFETY      Safer in the Skies            
25 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.A Foundation for Safety
Whether we are protecting our employees, customers, business partners or our airplanes, Delta believes in a 
structured approach to Safety Management and is a strong advocate for Safety Management Systems (SMS).  
The Delta SMS includes four key elements: Safety Policy, Safety Risk 
Management, Safety Assurance and Safety Promotion; along with 
Safety Leadership and Continuous Improvement, these components 
establish the framework to ensure we manage risk while building our 
safety culture. The SMS is an integrated approach that is applied to 
Safety Management across our business with the goal to mitigate 
hazards before they lead to incidents.
Since its development in 2006, Delta’s SMS has matured into a strong, 
successful and healthy foundation for our evolving daily operational 
processes. The keys to its success are employee engagement, leadership support and communication. Our front-line employees are the eyes and 
ears of our operation and are best positioned to identify daily hazards and 
offer solutions. Constant analysis of systems, processes and procedures 
provides ongoing opportunities to proactively identify hazards before an 
incident occurs. Effective hazard reporting by all employees throughout 
the organization helps to ensure we address issues in a timely manner. 
The strong relationship we have with our connection carriers and 
SkyTeam Alliance partners helps Delta gather and assess safety-related 
data, best practices and lessons learned.
Certifying Our Safety Systems
Delta received approval of the airline's enterprisewide 
Safety Management System (SMS) from the Federal 
Aviation Administration in 2017, following a process 
of more than two years. Delta submitted its SMS 
implementation plan to the FAA in March 2015, putting 
us among the first U.S. carriers to do so and among 
the first to receive certification. Receiving the FAA's 
certification of our SMS demonstrates the commitment 
of our people to maintain and enhance Delta's culture of 
safety.
Over the last two years, Delta’s safety team has 
undergone systemwide FAA audits aimed at evaluating 
Delta's compliance within the four elements of SMS. 
These audits ensure employees know where they can 
report safety concerns and how those concerns are 
effectively addressed.The SMS remains in a state of continuous improvement, 
based on direct employee feedback and divisional input 
to operational issues that may pose a safety concern. The 
success of the SMS lives with every Delta employee’s 
active participation in the hazard identification process. 
Each operational division has systems in place where 
hazards to customers, employees and equipment can be 
reported. 
Delta already leads the U.S. airline industry with the 
lowest global injury rate and managed to eliminate or 
reduce risk as an organization focused on continuous 
improvement. We are committed to reducing the global 
injury rate by 75 percent in the next five years as we track 
on a path to joining some of the safest companies for 
employees in the U.S.PRIORITY: Flight and Employee SafetySAFETY      A Foundation for Safety
26 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Ensuring Secure Flights  
& Rapid Emergency Response 
Our world is increasingly characterized by geopolitical change and uncertainty. This requires us to be ready to 
respond swiftly to security challenges that could threaten our customers or employees. 
Delta continues to evolve our security program, taking a proactive 
approach to addressing risks and minimizing impacts and working 
with government and airport partners to expand customer service 
security initiatives. In close collaboration with U.S. government 
partners, we conduct regular threat assessments of all locations 
Delta serves to ensure appropriate levels of protection. Delta also 
relies on employees with security clearances to guide our response 
to emerging or existing threats, which could include diverting flights 
en route to safeguard our customers, people and assets—above  
and beyond government guidance. 
Delta’s Business Continuity and Emergency Response programs 
provide training and support that ensure we can appropriately 
respond to any crisis impacting our airline. Thanks to this training, Delta’s highly skilled responders can work through any disaster 
by quickly assessing the situation, using predeveloped plans and 
developing an action plan to be used throughout the crisis. Frequent 
drills and simulations keep our employees familiar with response 
processes and equipped to respond at a moment’s notice. They also 
help us understand areas of improvement, and we continually make 
improvements to our plans outside of an actual emergency. As an 
example, a new area of training for employees is how to respond to 
active shooter events. Delta Business Continuity engages all divisions 
to develop secondary business processes aimed at minimizing 
disruption to our customers during a business failure. We maintain 
daily vigilance to ensure our teams are ready to respond to any crisis 
that affects our company, employees and customers. 
We take great pride in our all-volunteer force of employees from 
Delta and our Delta Connection partners. These volunteers, known 
as the Care Team, are specially trained in working with survivors 
and families of an aviation disaster. The Care Team is composed of 
compassionate, caring individuals who are on call for immediate 
deployment to any worldwide destination. Our current goal for Care 
Team membership globally is between 2,600 and 4,000 employees. 
The Care Team is organized into smaller teams of 15-20 members 
each. Assistance can include making flight arrangements, assisting 
with ground transportation, arranging hotel accommodations, 
providing food and emergency clothing and helping keep customers 
and family members informed. Care Team members also help 
coordinate communication among hospitals, airport officials and 
organizations like the Red Cross or Red Crescent and can be a 
shoulder to lean on during a difficult time—helping our customers 
feel at home, no matter where they are in the world. Delta’s 
Emergency Response team focuses on ensuring Delta meets or exceeds 
requirements of the U.S. Aviation Disaster Family Assistance Act of 
1996. In doing this, we make certain we’re meeting requirements for all 
the international destinations in which Delta operates.
SAFETY      Ensuring Secure Flights & Rapid Emergency Response
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
27Protecting Customer Health
Our commitment to customers’ safety includes their health condition during flight. Our in-flight medical 
capabilities provide best-in-class safety that exceeds FAA regulatory guidance for onboard medical equipment, 
supplies, medication and ground medical physician support. 
Delta also accommodates battery-operated medical devices, 
including portable oxygen concentrators that have been 
preapproved by the U.S. Department of Transportation and  
Delta to ensure compatibility with aviation electronic systems. 
In rare cases, customers may need assistance that goes beyond 
the treatment we can provide in-flight. That’s why we voluntarily 
contract with STAT-MD, a division of emergency medicine 
services of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. STAT-MD 
provides 24/7 ground-based medical support for all domestic and 
international in-flight medical events, in addition to pre-flight 
medical fitness-to-fly consultative support. STAT-MD physician 
consultants are board-certified emergency medicine physicians 
who understand Delta’s onboard medical capabilities and the 
effects of altitude on physiology in flight. During in-flight medical 
occurrences, these trained physicians consult from the ground and 
provide treatment recommendations, which could include diverting 
a flight to provide a patient with more immediate medical care. 
This consultation happens in collaboration with pilots in the flight 
deck, flight attendant first responders, customer medical volunteers, 
if available, and the flight’s dispatcher from the Operations and 
Customer Center. 
SAFETY      Protecting Customer Health
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
28Handling Potentially Dangerous Goods 
Another important component of flight safety is the safe handling of dangerous goods. Delta’s Dangerous 
Goods Management Group manages and oversees handling of dangerous goods, as well as implementation of 
companywide dangerous goods policies.
Due to strict regulations by domestic and international authorities 
related to acceptance, handling and transport, our dangerous goods 
program is operated as part of our quality management system. 
The program is tasked with establishing hazardous materials 
and dangerous goods standards, evaluating operations against 
those standards, recommending appropriate improvements and 
promoting awareness and compliance. 
Delta understands the risks associated with carrying regulated 
materials onboard and accepts and transports hazardous materials 
through our Cargo/Airport Customer Service division, as well as 
transporting company-required materials to Technical Operations 
facilities. Delta’s HazMat program is fully compliant with applicable 
regulations as well as the International Civil Aviation Organization 
(ICAO) technical instructions. Further ensuring the safety of our 
employees and customers, all Delta employees who may be required to handle any type of HazMat are trained annually through an FAA-
approved training program.
We have also taken proactive measures to limit the onboard risks 
posed by potential lithium ion battery fires from personal electronic 
devices (PED). The average airline passenger travels with three to 
five lithium ion—powered devices, which equates to hundreds of 
batteries on any given flight. Although very rare, the threat of a thermal 
runaway involving lithium ion batteries is real. Recognizing this threat, 
in 2017, Delta proactively purchased PED overheat containment kits 
that will be installed on our entire fleet in 2017-2018. We are the 
first major domestic carrier to deploy this safety enhancement.
At Delta, the safety of our onboard customers and employees will 
remain a top priority. In 2015 we were among the first airlines to ban 
hoverboards, and in 2018 we were among the first airlines to prohibit 
the use of “smart bags” with nonremovable lithium-ion batteries.
Delta is the first major domestic carrier to deploy Personal Electric Device overheat containment kits on its entire fleet. The kits help to limit the onboard risks 
posed by lithium ion battery fires from PEDs.SAFETY      Handling Potentially Dangerous Goods  
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
29Safety Across Our Network
Delta is committed to collaboration with airline partners on safety beyond what regulations require. This includes 
codeshare partners and members of our SkyTeam Alliance. The FAA requires audits of each of our partners every two 
years. These audits last roughly five days each and include hundreds of elements, ranging from flight operations to 
cabin maintenance, in order to meet IATA standards. In between audits, we monitor major changes and any safety, 
security or quality incidents. 
We believe that these standards are just a start, however, and 
engage with partners well beyond FAA requirements to ensure we 
are operating at consistent levels across our network. Delta strives 
to collaborate on the highest degrees of safety and security across 
all partnerships through: 
 »Monthly sessions with our Delta Connection Partners during 
which partners report on safety and security metrics and share 
corrective actions and mitigation plans. 
 »Routine sessions with heads of safety for each of the  
20 SkyTeam partners. This group includes six working groups 
that focus on operational safety, ground, safety, emergency 
response, quality and compliance, and security.  »Dedicated sessions with our equity and joint venture partners. 
 »Continuous monitoring of the global airspace to ensure that 
no Codeshare partner flights pass through prohibited areas.
Delta also participates in and leads multiple industry-wide safety 
initiatives. For example, we participate in a working group that 
uses the FAA’s Aviation Safety Information Analysis and Sharing 
(ASIAS) system. ASIAS promotes the open exchange of de-identified 
safety information to continuously improve aviation safety. We also 
are an active participant leader and member of the Flight Safety 
Foundation, Commercial Aviation Safety Team (CAST), National 
Safety Council and International Society of Air Safety Investigators.
SAFETY      Safety Across Our Network
30 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Customer
Satisfaction
IN THIS CHAPTER
Doing More for Our Customers ...... 34
Welcoming Everyone on Board ...... 35
Enhancing the  
Customer Experience ......................... 36
Transforming Travel  
Through Tech ........................................ 37
Protecting Our Digital Assets ......... 39
Customer Satisfaction
Building lasting relationships with our customers is one of Delta’s priorities. To do this, we strive each day to 
provide the most reliable, safe and convenient experience possible on every flight and through every interaction. 
This includes calls to our Customer Engagement Centers and 
customer inquiries through social media. Delta prides itself on 
having received Contact Center Certification from J.D. Power and 
Associates four years in a row—the only airline ever to earn the 
title. In addition, Delta continues to enhance the travel experience 
through innovation, streamlined security procedures and an 
unrelenting focus on safety.
This level of discipline is especially important when we are faced 
with events that are beyond our control. In the middle of the holiday 
travel season, for example, a power outage shut down operations at 
the Atlanta airport, Delta’s busiest hub, for 12 hours. And, a record 
number of hurricanes closed airports throughout the Caribbean and 
Florida for several days in 2017 as well. Through it all, Delta people 
provided our customers the very best service in the industry, and 
customer satisfaction during such events has improved year over 
year, based on data collected on every flight. 
Recovery from major events like these is crucial to maintaining 
customer trust. In 2017, we reinforced our readiness for these 
unforeseen challenges by establishing an Irregular Operations 
Steering Committee, consisting of senior leaders from each 
operational division. This group has developed a cross-divisional 
manual of agreed-upon actions to aid in recovery from a disruption. Key elements include:
 »Dispatching additional flight crew resources to affected cities
 »Setting up cross-divisional communications coordinators
 »Establishing automated alerting for airport congestion
 »Predetermining overtime requirements
 »Establishing remote work resources to aid during high  
workload periods
 »Creating response checklists for key operational positions
 »Developing scorecards for evaluating teams’ performance on 
certain mission-critical tasks during debriefings 
Additional keys to keeping satisfaction high during extraordinary 
circumstances have been advance planning, proactive communication 
and support in airports for impacted customers. For example, when 
severe weather or other events disrupt operations, Delta may issue 
a travel waiver to give customers the chance to take alternate flights 
without paying a change fee. To make it easier for customers to 
know when a waiver is available, Delta now notifies customers via 
email or text when they are traveling from, through or to a market 
with a waiver. A pilot test of the tool drove a significant increase in 
customer experience scores. 
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION      
32 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Relieving the Stress of Stressful Travel
Picture the Atlanta airport—the busiest in the world and 
our largest hub—during Thanksgiving week, one of the 
most popular travel times of year, particularly for those 
who fly infrequently, and it’s easy to see why Delta needs 
all hands on deck. Peach Corps, a team of hundreds of 
Delta employee-volunteers, helps customers start the 
holiday right by assisting their journey through the 
airport during especially busy times. 
The Peach Corps’ mission: Answer travelers’ questions, 
solve minor problems and guide customers in the right 
direction to minimize waiting and frustration. This 
also eases the load on other employees by redirecting 
customers who don’t need to see a customer service 
agent to begin their trip.
The Peach Corps was such a success in its pilot during 
Atlanta’s Thanksgiving rush that we are expanding the program. In Los Angeles, 210 volunteers—some from 
outside the U.S.—assisted customers as Delta and other 
airlines moved operations across the airport in an epic 
terminal swap. At New York-LaGuardia, Peach Corps 
volunteers ensured smooth operation as the busy Delta 
Shuttle operation switched terminals. Some volunteers 
have received advanced training so that they can 
perform tasks such as creating extra boarding lines at 
gates and rerouting luggage. That’s especially valuable 
during severe weather delays, such as those caused by 
Hurricane Irma.
The ways that Peach Corps members help may seem 
small: “Where’s the nearest restroom?” “How does  
this kiosk work?” But for customers who now start  
their journeys with a little less stress, it makes all  
the difference. PRIORITY: Holiday Travelers
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION     
33 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.CUSTOMER SATISFACTION      Doing More for Our Customers            Doing More for Our Customers 
We recognize that we are only as good as our ability to get customers to their destinations reliably and on time. 
For this reason, we consider completions, or flights that arrive without cancellation, and on-time arrivals among 
key measures of customer satisfaction performance.  
We set monthly and annual goals for these metrics for both Delta and 
Delta Connection partners, and award bonuses to our employees for 
meeting or exceeding these goals. In 2017, we ran 242 days without 
canceling any mainline flights, including 90 days with no system 
cancellations on the entire Delta platform—a 10 percent increase from  
2016. In addition, 82.8 percent of our flights were on time, ranking  
us number one among North American airlines. 
Delta takes the pulse of our customers using net promoter scores, a 
standard tool for measuring customer satisfaction. Recognizing that 
customer satisfaction is driven by all aspects of the flight experience, from a smooth boarding process and technology upgrades to 
interactions with Delta employees, we are making investments in each 
of these areas. Training for Delta people now includes a focus on how 
interactions with customers can directly affect net promoter scores 
and, in turn, customer loyalty and company revenue. 
During 2017, we achieved record customer satisfaction levels, 
with higher net promoter scores in every region and a two-point 
improvement overall. We will continue to build on this success  
with investments in our products and people, as well as more than  
$12 billion in airport facility projects planned in the next decade.
Our Performance  
on Our Customers’ 
Behalf in 2017
90 days
No system 
cancellations on  
entire Delta platform 82.8%
on-time performance; 
#1 ranking among major 
North American airlines;
OAG Punctuality League 
2017  
Most On-Time 
Airline 
FlightGlobal
First U.S. airline to earn award242 days
With no mainline flight cancellations
#1 Ranking
Business Travel  
 News 2017 Airline Survey
$2 billion
INVESTMENT IN 
PARTNERSHIPS WITH 
GLOBAL AIRLINES,
GIVING CUSTOMERS 
MORE CHOICE
DEL TA SKYMILES
U.S. NEWS BEST TRAVEL 
REWARDS
BUSINESS  
AIRLINE  
 OF THE YEAR
Business Travel  
Awards
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
34Welcoming Everyone on Board
Delta is proud to serve customers of all ages, cultures, nationalities and walks of life. As our world becomes  
more connected and our customer base becomes more diverse, we are committed to preparing our employees  
to provide the same high level of service to all. 
Delta has an uncompromising policy to never discriminate against 
any customer, including on the basis of race, gender, age, national 
origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation, veteran status or 
other similar classifications. This not only complies with legal 
requirements; it is part of Delta’s core values. 
In 2017, we provided diversity training to 23,000 flight attendants, in 
addition to training that is required of all Delta executives. This training 
uses real-life scenarios to help front-line employees understand and 
confront issues such as unconscious bias and microaggressions, which 
can greatly affect interpersonal interactions. 
Delta’s nondiscrimination policy includes providing reasonable 
accommodations for our customers with disabilities. Those who 
serve our customers are responsible for knowing the company’s 
policies and procedures, as well as applicable government 
regulations, that apply to service for customers with disabilities. 
This includes customers who travel with service or support animals. 
We carry approximately 700 of these animals daily, adding up to 
nearly 250,000 per year. However, lack of regulation in health and 
training screening for service and support animals has led some 
travelers to stretch the true intent of service animal policies, using 
fraudulent certification paperwork. When animals that have not 
undergone the rigorous training required of true service and support 
animals board our flights, they pose a risk to customers—and do a 
disservice to individuals who have real and documented needs.
To respond to this risk, Delta worked with our Advisory Board on 
Disability to find a solution that supports customers with a legitimate 
need for these animals, while creating a safe and consistent travel 
experience for all. We asked for feedback from this board, made up of 
Delta frequent flyers with a range of disabilities. Delta also incorporated 
feedback from other advocates for customers with disabilities. A new Service Animal Support Desk should simplify the travel 
experience for customers traveling with service and support animals. 
The desk will verify that all required documentation is received 
and will also confirm the customer's reservation to travel with an 
emotional support or psychiatric service animal before arrival at the 
airport. Since our new policy announcement, other airlines have made 
similar changes. Delta’s new policy, which took effect in March 2018, 
initiated the following requirements: 
Customers Traveling with Trained Service Animals
 »Possible requirement for pet health forms and/or 
immunization records
 »Check in via Delta.com, the Fly Delta mobile app, airport kiosks 
or with an airport agent
Customers Traveling with Emotional Support or Psychiatric  
Service Animals 
 »A signed Veterinary Health Form and/or an immunization record
 »Emotional Support/Psychiatric Service Animal Request Form 
 »Letter prepared and signed by licensed mental health professional 
 »Signed Confirmation of Animal Training Form 
 »Check in with airport agent 
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION      Welcoming Everyone on Board
35 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Recognizing  
Service Members
During 2017, Delta CEO Ed Bastian received a note from 
a customer, an active military member: Would the airline 
consider recognizing individuals traveling on orders? Delta 
people have a proud history of supporting the military, so 
we jumped at the chance to honor this request. 
After 20 days of thoroughly testing the concept, 
Delta teams were confident that a systemwide rollout 
could happen quickly. Feedback from employees and 
customers proved that the move was the right thing 
to do. Now, when boarding begins on Delta flights, 
customers hear, “Our active duty U.S. military service 
members with ID are welcome to board.”As Delta invests in tools and processes to improve the 
customer experience, this initiative is a reminder that 
caring for our customers doesn’t always require the latest 
technology. With approximately 3,000 Delta employees 
in the U.S. Armed Forces and 10,000 employee veterans, 
military personnel are a remarkably important part of our 
business. We’re proud to have one more way to show 
our gratitude to those who sacrifice so much for us.PRIORITY: Active-Duty Military Customers
Enhancing the  
Customer Experience
AT HOME
ON BOARDAT THE AIRPORT
AT THE GATEGet checked in 
automatically  
with the Fly Delta appCheck bags quickly and 
securely with biometric-
based, self-service bag drop
Snap your picture, 
confirm and board your 
international flight  Receive personalized recognition 
by Delta Flight Attendants based 
on Medallion status, achieved 
milestones and more
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION      Enhancing the Customer Experience
36 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Transforming Travel Through T ech
As technology transforms so many aspects of modern life, Delta is making investments in technology that are 
enhancing the customer experience in new ways. 
For example, thanks to recent advancements in biometrics 
technology, facial and fingerprint scans are beginning to replace 
boarding passes and government-issued IDs. Soon, customers will 
arrive at the airport, check their bags, enter the Delta Sky Club and 
board their flights—all without showing a boarding pass or photo ID. 
Biometric verification has a higher level of accuracy than paper 
boarding passes and frees up agents to assist customers with seat 
changes and perform other skilled tasks. It gives customers less to 
keep track of as they move through the airport, allowing them to 
travel faster and more seamlessly than ever. 
A series of pilot tests at our U.S. hubs in 2017 got us much closer 
to this future. We started by allowing Delta Sky Club guests with 
CLEAR membership to check in to the DCA Delta Sky Club by 
scanning their fingerprints. In partnership with U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection, we also tested next-generation facial recognition 
boarding in Atlanta and New York—John F. Kennedy. In Minneapolis, 
we opened the first biometric self-service bag drop, streamlining the 
secure bag check process. As of early 2018, biometric check-in  
is now available at all 50 domestic Delta Sky Club locations. 
Beyond biometrics, new mobile devices for Delta employees are 
allowing gate agents and flight attendants to deliver service with 
a more personal touch. For example, the Nomad tool is the size 
of a cell phone and allows agents to make seat changes, rebook 
customers, check bag status, board or check in customers and print 
bag tags and boarding passes from the palm of their hand. The 
device got its name from the freedom it provides agents to untether 
from a computer when helping customers. Similarly, Delta Sky 
Pro, a handheld device for flight attendants, provides information 
about the customers traveling on each flight, such as who recently 
achieved Medallion status or who experienced a delay on a recent 
flight. These insights allow flight attendants to offer personalized 
engagement. If every flight crew recognized 20 customers per flight, 
Delta could personally enhance the travel experience of 50,000 
customers every day. Delta is also making improvements to customers’ in-flight technology 
experience, including free mobile messaging on all Wi-Fi-enabled 
flights; high-speed, gate-to-gate Wi-Fi for domestic narrowbody 
aircraft; Wi-Fi portal enhancements; simplified Wi-Fi pricing; and bag 
tracking via the Fly Delta mobile app. And we’re not stopping there. We 
continue to generate new ideas through investments like The Hangar, 
a global innovation center that taps into top university talent; Engage, 
an Atlanta-based accelerator that supports technology startups of 
which Delta is a founding supporter; and Innovative Flight Experience 
weekends for employees, meant to generate solutions from within 
our business. All of these efforts are helping bring about a digital 
transformation at Delta, allowing us to continually make the travel 
experience a little bit smoother for our customers. 
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION      Transforming Travel Through Tech
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
37Transporting Critical Cargo 
Caring for people means more than delivering customers 
to their destinations. It also includes using our resources 
to transport lifesaving cargo like medication, human 
tissues—even a beating heart for a transplant. 
Delta Cargo now offers a variety of services for 
transporting these priceless packages, including DASH 
Critical & Medical, the first fully GPS-enabled, same-day 
service offered by a U.S. freight carrier. Customers can 
ship items up to 45 minutes before a flight’s scheduled 
departure, and a dedicated team will monitor the 
shipment throughout its journey.
In 2017, Delta Cargo also became the first U.S. global 
customer carrier to receive Pharma Logistics Certification from the Center of Excellence for Independent 
Validators, creating the network’s first trans-Atlantic 
route. Building upon this certification, we expanded the 
list of destinations reached by our Pharma 4 program, 
which is used for products that must be shipped at room 
temperature. Delta now has 49 pharma stations on six 
continents, in addition to nine approved facilities across 
Europe that we operate with our partners. 
As Delta adopts new certifications and grows the number of 
locations served by Cargo services, we are not only helping 
deliver essential care—we are raising the bar across our 
industry for handling of vital medical products. PRIORITY: Healthcare Professionals and Patients 
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION      Transporting Critical Cargo             
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
38Like most businesses and organizations, our information and 
technology systems are subject to increasing threats of continually 
evolving risk. The mission of Delta’s Information Security Program 
is to protect Delta’s business and people (customers, employees, 
and partners) from information security threats while empowering 
and enabling Delta to “keep climbing” through innovative, forward-
looking, holistic information security services, products and solutions. 
The Information Security Division is committed to safeguarding 
all forms of internal business and customer information, as well as 
protecting all information systems from unauthorized access, use, 
disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction. To carry out our 
mission, Delta focuses on five layers of protection: identify, protect, 
detect, respond and recover.
The Information Security Program ensures the confidentiality, 
integrity and availability of critical business information. It also takes 
steps to maintain the privacy of information we hold regarding our 
customers and employees. All Delta employees are expected to play 
their part in maintaining general information security and privacy as 
they handle corporate and customer information in their job functions. 
We made significant progress in 2017 in the transformation of our 
information technology function to improve operational reliability 
and enhance disaster recovery capabilities. Most significantly, we opened a new data center to provide redundancy for our key systems 
and continue the enhancement of that facility. We also reduced 
the risk of technology system failures to our operations through 
additional disaster recovery processes and heightened emphasis 
on our information security program, including through the hiring 
of an experienced information security professional as our Chief 
Information Security Officer (CISO).
The current Information Security division consists of the CISO role, 
with four workgroups that support the information security of our 
global operations: 
 »Cyber Monitoring and Assurance whose mission is to identify, 
protect, detect, respond and recover from cyberattacks and provide 
reasonable assurance that IT systems are adequately protected 
through continuous vulnerability scanning and systems testing.
 »Identity and Access Management to provide a holistic, 
coordinated approach to managing identity, access and 
authentication.
 »Governance Risk and Compliance establishes security policies 
and standards, conducts risk assessments, and promotes security-
related training and awareness programs, as well as ensuring 
compliance with legislation and regulatory requirements.Protecting Our Digital Assets 
Technology is a common thread across all improvements to the customer experience. As such, information 
security is essential to Delta. To operate effectively in a large, diverse environment and compete successfully 
in the global economy, Delta commits to having information assets that are secure, accurate and accessible. 
We make the security and privacy of our customers’ personal information a top priority.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION      Protecting Our Digital Assets             
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
39 »Delta Information Assurance Leaders (DIAL) lead security 
efforts with IT portfolio owners, engage in business projects at the 
ground level and work to influence the security of those projects 
before they go through their build and deploy processes.
Delta also seeks the opinions of industry experts to ensure that our 
information security program remains effective. These assessments 
are both voluntary and compliance-based. Following third-party 
assessments and audits, we implement additional security controls 
and technologies as needed to ensure we are keeping pace with 
current cyberthreats and trends. 
Delta employees are the first line of defense against information 
security threats, and a workforce that is trained and aware of 
information security policies and processes helps to reduce the security 
risk to Delta’s information assets. Relevant and appropriate training 
regarding data protection—related privacy policies and processes is 
available for all personnel. All employees with logical access to Delta 
systems must complete information security awareness training 
upon hire and on an annual basis. Additional training and education 
is provided to key audiences, such as IT developers and people who 
process credit cards. We also give practical guidance on information 
security issues throughout the year to employees and managers across 
the company. 
Our Information Security Awareness Program includes a quarterly 
expert speaker series, quarterly “clean desk” audits, creation and 
distribution of video and poster campaigns, awareness and 
engagement events in conjunction with large corporate events such as 
the Delta Block Party and LEAD. The team also participates in National 
Cybersecurity Awareness Month in October and Data Privacy Day in 
January. Awareness campaigns throughout the year focus on hot 
topics such as phishing, antitampering, data classification, password 
protection and ensuring a secure workspace. Training and awareness 
activities serve to not only educate employees about how to protect 
Delta’s information assets, but also to give employees and their 
families the tools they need to protect themselves in the digital world.BEING RESPONSIBLE WITH CUSTOMER DATA  
Delta carries millions of customers each year, and we have a 
responsibility to protect the privacy of the information that customers 
entrust to us when they choose Delta as their airline. At the core of 
Delta's global commitment to data protection is our Data Protection 
Governance Framework, as set forth in our data privacy and 
cybersecurity-related policies and procedures.
We collect and process only the personal data that is necessary 
for achieving the purposes set forth in our Privacy Policy and have 
established appropriate physical, electronic and managerial safeguards 
to protect the information we collect. These safeguards are regularly 
reviewed to protect against unauthorized access, disclosure and 
improper use of customer information, and to maintain the accuracy and 
integrity of that data. In the event of policy changes or a data breach, we 
communicate with customers in a timely manner and provide assistance 
to those who may have been impacted by an incident. 
Delta’s privacy practices are explained to our customers on our 
website. Topics include Delta’s Privacy Policy, Policy for Mobile 
Applications and extensive information on customer privacy and 
data security. We and other U.S. carriers are subject to laws regarding 
privacy of customer and employee data that vary between the 
countries in which we operate. In addition to the heightened level 
of concern regarding privacy of customer data in the U.S., certain 
European government agencies are reviewing airline privacy practices. 
We will track and comply with these new regulations as they evolve  
to keep our customers safe. 
To support privacy by design and by default as specified by the EU 
General Data Protection Regulation, Delta conducts a Privacy Impact 
Assessment at the outset of new projects and initiatives that relate to 
personal data processing. This may include the procurement of a new 
IT system or application, the collection of personal data through a new 
channel or the sharing of personal data with a new vendor.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION      Protecting Our Digital Assets            
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
40Environmental
Stewardship
IN THIS CHAPTER
Climate Change
Responding to  
New Regulations ................................. 43
Reducing Absolute Emissions  ....... 44
Fuel-Efficiency Improvements  ......46
A Sustainable  
& Efficient Fleet  .................................. 47
Offsetting Our Impact  ...................... 48
Environmental Compliance
Managing & Mitigating Spills ......... 52
Protecting Air Quality ........................ 54
Aircraft Drinking Water ..................... 55
Thinking Differently  
About Waste ......................................... 56
Climate Change
While air travel accounts for only 2 percent of global carbon 
emissions, we recognize the seriousness of the threat posed by 
climate change and the need to shrink our carbon footprint. We 
are committed to working with regulators and with partners across 
our industry to find workable solutions to decrease our impact. The 
greatest contributor to our environmental footprint—and therefore 
our biggest opportunity—is our use of jet fuel. We are making 
progress on this front by meeting international targets for emissions 
reduction, investing in more fuel-efficient aircraft and improvements  
to existing aircraft, purchasing carbon offsets to mitigate the emissions  
from many of our flights and driving energy efficiency in our facilities 
where possible.  
Climate change considerations influence Delta’s short-term, medium-
term and long-term climate goals. The opportunity to address climate 
change risks has driven us to track metrics and model future impact 
related to both physical and regulatory risk. Physical risks include 
weather risks to airports, passenger safety and turbulence and more 
irregular operation days due to weather events. Regulatory risks 
include the current European Union’s Emissions Trading System (EU 
ETS), the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Carbon 
Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) 
and other potential environmental and emissions reduction schemes.  
To help address these risks, Delta has integrated expected carbon  costs into aircraft planning and purchasing strategies and fuel-
efficiency commitments. 
Management of environmental and climate change–related risks and 
opportunities is integrated into our companywide risk management 
process, and ultimate oversight of Delta's environmental sustainability 
program falls to our Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance 
Committee. A cross-divisional council—the Delta Risk, Privacy and 
Compliance Council—develops risk mitigation strategies and updates 
its assessment of risks as conditions change. 
Day-to-day management of climate change issues is the 
responsibility of the Managing Director of Global Environment, 
Sustainability and Compliance, who reports to the Senior Vice 
President of Corporate Safety, Security and Compliance. The Senior 
Vice President is responsible for setting the direction and standards 
for environmental performance at Delta and chairs the Executive 
Environment Leadership Council (EELC). The EELC is made up of 
senior-level executives who are responsible for the approval of our 
emissions strategy and emissions-related annual goals. It provides 
advice and recommendations to the CEO and corporate leadership 
team on issues related to sustainable development, including climate 
change. The EELC typically meets meets two to three times per year,  
or more as necessary. 
Being a sustainable business means staying mindful of the impacts of our decisions. Nowhere is this clearer than in 
our approach to reducing carbon emissions and managing our environmental impacts. Environmental stewardship 
at Delta includes not only reducing our emissions due to the burning of jet fuel, but also minimizing the impact of 
activities throughout our business.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  CLIMATE CHANGE    
42 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.How Delta Supports IATA Goals 
GOAL
HORIZON
TIMEFRAME
HOW IT’S  
MEASURED
WHAT DEL TA  
IS DOING 
OUR  
PROGRESSIMPROVE FUEL EFFICIENCY  
BY 1.5 PERCENT PER YEARACHIEVE CARBON-NEUTRAL 
GROWTHREDUCE EMISSIONS BY  
50 PERCENT OVER 2005 LEVELS
Fuel needed to carry a set amount of 
weight a certain distance (expressed  
as gallons per 100 revenue ton miles)CO2 emissions for aviation industry 
from 2020 onward T otal aircraft emissions in 2050  
compared to 2005 2009–2020 2021–2035 2005–2050Short-Term Medium-Term Long-Term
Decreasing weight, improving 
takeoff and landing procedures  
(see page 46)Carbon offsets  
(see pages 48 & 49)Annual fuel savings initiatives 
(see pages 44 & 45) 
2.3 percent improvement  
in aircraft efficiency from  
2016 to 2017. Delta has achieved carbon-neutral 
growth compared to 2012 emissions. We 
are the only airline to voluntarily cap 
emissions ahead of IATA’s deadline. 13.3 percent reduction in absolute 
emissions since 2005, putting us  
on track toward this goal. Responding to New Regulations
Many parts of the world are introducing regulations to limit carbon emissions produced by various entities. For 
example, under the EU ETS, any flight originating from and landing in the European Union is currently subject 
to the ETS. If an airline exceeds its free emissions allowances under the ETS, it must purchase additional ones. 
Currently, Delta’s obligation under EU ETS only applies to intra-EU diversions and charters. 
As the regulatory landscape changes in the U.S. and abroad, we may 
face added regulations, taxes or permitting requirements related to 
our emissions, including requirements from multiple jurisdictions 
for the same operations. As a result of ongoing discussions 
between the U.S. and other nations, the InternationaI Civil Aviation 
Organization (ICAO) adopted a global, market-based emissions 
offset program known as the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction 
Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA). Delta has a Carbon Emissions Policy that aligns with ICAO and 
International Air Transport Association (IATA) guidelines, including IATA’s 
targets for short-, medium- and long-term reductions in emissions across 
the aviation industry. The responsibility of review for this program falls 
to our EELC. In addition, Delta leadership compensation is tied to 
performance, which includes ESG sustainability efforts such as fuel 
savings initiatives. Because fuel accounts for a significant portion of 
Delta’s costs, any efforts to save fuel directly impact Delta’s bottom line, 
which in turn affects bonus pools and profit sharing for all employees. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  CLIMATE CHANGE              Responding to New Regulations
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
43Because of the environmental and financial challenges posed by 
purchasing increasing amounts of jet fuel, many members of the 
aviation industry believe that the future lies with alternative, or 
nonpetroleum-based, sources of energy. As researchers explore 
the use of biofuels as alternative fuel sources, Delta has proactively 
developed a set of biofuel principles that will guide our decision-
making and investments in this area. To be worthy of investment,  
we believe that any new biofuel project must: 
 »Meet applicable technical and regulatory standards, including 
ASTM D1655
 »Have lower environmental impacts (climate, water, air and 
biodiversity), including lower life-cycle carbon emissions than 
conventional, petroleum-based jet fuel
 »Ideally, come from feed stocks that will not displace or 
compete with food crops
 »Satisfy technical and functional criteria that allow biofuel to 
be commingled within existing national fuel transport, storage 
and logistics infrastructure, as well as within individual airport 
and airline systems 
 »Have no adverse impact on aircraft engines
 »Be somewhat cost competitive with existing petroleum-based 
supply »Advance the future availability of jet biofuels
 »Meet Delta’s reputational and creditworthiness standards
In 2017, Delta launched a partnership with the University of 
Georgia to manage ongoing life-cycle analyses of new biofuels. 
An evaluation of camelina oil, including the entire life-cycle from 
cultivation and harvesting to biojet fuel production, transport and 
combustion, demonstrated that it could significantly reduce carbon 
emissions compared to petroleum-based fuels. In addition, Delta will 
continue to engage with  producers to assess the technical, financial 
and regulatory challenges associated with bio-jet opportunities.Reducing Absolute Emissions 
We recognize that fuel efficiency and carbon-neutral growth alone are not sufficient to address the risks of  
climate change. In line with IATA’s long-term emissions-reduction goals, we must also dramatically decrease  
absolute emissions, which result mainly from burning of jet fuel by our mainline and regional aircraft.
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  CLIMATE CHANGE              Reducing Absolute Emissions
44 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.CARBON EMISSIONS (Metric T ons CO2e) 
EMISSIONS SOURCES 2005 2015* 2016 2017
SCOPE 1 — DIRECT EMISSIONS FROM OWNED OR CONTROLLED SOURCES
Jet fuel from mainline operations and wholly owned 
subsidiaries such as Delta Private Jets41,741,619 34,888,066 35,257 ,525 35,591,053
Fuel used in ground support equipment 133,194 98,580 98,505 106,286
Natural gas (stationary combustion) 55,593 68,809 75,505 78,632
Chemicals 3,469 1,190 1,386 1,913
Refrigerants 10,513 3,304 3,800 4,343
Emergency generators, fire pumps 834 168 135 219
SCOPE 2 — INDIRECT EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY
Electricity from directly billed owned facilities 2 27,169 186,383 175,024 146,239
Electricity from leased facilities 193,249 106,071 111,824 117, 3 67
SCOPE 3 — INDIRECT EMISSIONS IN VALUE CHAIN
Jet fuel from regional partners 3,808,637 4,392,668 4,291,817 4,129,530
Total 169,277 39,745,239 40,015,521 40,175,582
Offsets — 2,059,745 2,361,921 2,522,752
OUR NET EMISSIONS 46,173,685 37,685, 493 37,685, 493 37,685, 493
*Emissions numbers updated post 2016 CRR publication after emissions verification had been completed.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  CLIMATE CHANGE              Reducing Absolute EmissionsJet fuel (Scope 1 and 3) from mainline and regional aircraft accounts 
for 98.8 percent of Delta’s total emissions. Currently, Scope 3 
emissions only include jet fuel from our regional partners. 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions and any offsets purchased and retired 
are calculated and third-party verified annually in accordance with 
The Climate Registry’s reporting protocols. Delta’s emissions data 
and verification statements can be found on The Climate Registry’s 
reporting website.To track our progress on this long-term goal, we verify our complete 
emissions inventory, including the fuel burned by our regional carriers, 
under The Climate Registry protocol. These emissions metrics are 
measured annually and are used to benchmark our progress on 
efficiency improvements and absolute emissions reductions. 
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
45Fuel-Efficiency Improvements 
Delta’s primary opportunity for lowering our emissions is optimizing use of jet fuel. Between mainline and regional 
aircraft, jet fuel accounts for more than 98 percent of our total emissions and is our second-largest operating expense. 
One way we can reduce our fuel use is by decreasing the weight that 
planes must carry. We did this in 2017 by installing carbon brakes on 
some airplanes that reduced weight by 700 pounds. 
Other creative solutions include a renewed focus on using only a 
single engine for taxiing and asking customers to close shades in the 
cabin during summer months. This keeps the cabin up to 10 degrees 
cooler, decreasing the amount of time we need to run the auxiliary 
power unit. In addition, a new proprietary flight weather app allows 
our pilots to better avoid rough air, which ensures a smoother ride and 
burns less fuel. The result of these initiatives is that in 2017, although our planes carried more weight, they required significantly less fuel  
to do so. 
We also use IATA’s guidelines to calculate emissions intensity, or 
emissions per 100 revenue ton miles. Measuring emissions intensity 
aligns with IATA’s emissions-reduction goal and allows airlines to 
focus on growth. While our total absolute emissions (direct conversion 
from fuel) may increase, emissions intensity (emissions to transport 
100 revenue ton miles) should be reduced over time.
Making proactive efficiency improvements also helps to offset other 
factors, some that are beyond our control. For example, new customer 
expectations such as in-flight Wi-Fi require us to add equipment—and 
therefore, weight—to our aircraft. At busier airports, planes spend 
more time taxiing and may even have to circle in the air before being 
cleared for landing. A plane can use up to 400 gallons of fuel per 
hour while on the ground, and, as congestion increases at airports 
worldwide, this problem results in increased fuel burn. 
Delta’s substantial regional fleet adds complexity to our efforts to 
reduce emissions. Shorter flights are less efficient, mile for mile, than 
longer ones. In addition, planes use the most energy during takeoff and landing, and these stages take up a greater percentage of time on 
short flights. Finally, shorter flights also tend to use smaller planes, so 
efficiency per passenger also decreases on these flights. 
Over the past few years, we have reduced the number of regional 
aircraft and depended on larger aircraft, such as the Boeing 717-200, to 
achieve the same capacity using fewer takeoffs and landings, thereby 
improving overall efficiency. In addition, improvements to arrival and 
departure procedures, onboard weight reduction and other measures 
saved Delta an incremental 1.87 million gallons of fuel in 2017.Fuel Efficiency
2013                                                2014                                                2015                                    2016                                                2017            4.00%
3.00%
2.00%
1.00%
0.00%
-1.00%
-2.00%
-3.00%Total Fuel
Total Load (RTM)
Fuel Efficiency RatioENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  CLIMATE CHANGE              Fuel-Efficiency Improvements
Though total load increased from 2016 to 2017, we were able to maintain a consistent level of fuel use. This resulted in an improving fuel efficiency ratio.
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
46A Sustainable & Efficient Fleet 
Our commitment to addressing climate change informs the way we manage our fleet. We balance technological 
improvements available in new aircraft with a desire to build a fleet that is sustainable for the long term and 
maximizes planes’ useful life. 
We view airplanes as long-term investments. While the body of a 
plane may stay in our fleet for up to 30 years, we are continually 
improving aircraft from the inside out, increasing customer comfort 
and connectivity with new interiors and making fuel-efficiency 
improvements, such as adding winglets and routinely washing 
engine compressors to remove airborne particles. 
 As narrowbody aircraft approach retirement age over the next 
five years, we will replace them with quieter, more fuel-efficient 
Airbus 321s, Airbus 220s and Boeing 737-900ERs. These upgrades 
will build upon our lightweighting and other efficiency measures, 
allowing us to steadily transform our fleet’s performance.
Delta’s Fleet
1,316
Delta mainline and  
regional carrier aircraft 
353  
Purchase commitments  
for new aircraft by 202014.9 years  
Average age ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  CLIMATE CHANGE              A Sustainable & Efficient Fleet
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
47Offsetting Our Impact 
Delta continues to buy carbon offsets to reduce our total emissions footprint to 2012 levels. We ensure that these 
projects have a positive impact in places where Delta does business. Since 2013, we have voluntarily purchased and 
retired almost 9 million carbon offsets, including a commitment to retire more than 2.5 million offsets in 2017 alone.
These offsets include a biomass project in Alagoas, Brazil. There, two 
small factories that produce tiles, bricks and ceramic products now 
have the resources to adopt more sustainable practices. The factories’ 
owner switched from native wood to renewable materials, such as 
bamboo, coconut husks, cashew shavings, sawdust, elephant grass 
and sustainable timber, providing an eco-friendly building option for 
the local construction industry. The factory has also partnered with 
local universities to conduct research on biomass and invested in more 
efficient production technology. As a further benefit, the owner of the 
factories opened a soccer school, open daily, that promotes education 
and keeps children away from street violence. 
Global carbon-sequestering projects we support deliver both social and 
environmental benefits. For example, one project is The International 
Small Group & Tree Planting Program (TIST), which empowers 
subsistence farmers in countries such as Kenya and Uganda to reverse 
the devastating effects of deforestation, drought and famine through 
tree planting and sustainable agriculture.The loss of trees and the continuing use of some agricultural practices 
hurt the land and threaten the lives of subsistence farmers. The world’s 
poorest farmers depend on having healthy land for their very survival. 
They often clear trees off land for new farms. Removing trees exposes 
the ground to drying winds. Erosion from intense rains removes the 
rich top soil. Eventually the soil “dies” and farmers move to other land, 
clear trees and begin the cycle again.
TIST Small Groups are always finding better ways of working 
together, planting trees and farming. From their successes and 
failures, Small Groups develop "best practices" and then encourage 
other groups to adopt them. Groups adopt new farming practices 
using existing hand tools and natural fertilizers that increase food 
production. They develop practices for starting nurseries and caring 
for the seedlings, and share what works best for germinating and 
transplanting different tree species.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  CLIMATE CHANGE              Offsetting Our Impact
How Delta and Duke's First One-Of-Its-Kind  
Partnership helps local community with carbon offsets.
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
48Partnerships to Make Travel Carbon Neutral
During the 2017 regular season, the Seattle Seahawks 
traveled 25,688 miles—the sixth-highest amount of 
travel of any team in the NFL. As the official airline of 
the Seahawks, we share the team’s commitment to 
environmental sustainability. To support that commitment, 
we offset carbon emissions from the miles the Seahawks 
traveled by purchasing 1,080 carbon credits from Cedar 
Grove Composting.
Cedar Grove diverts yard waste and food scraps from landfills 
in the Puget Sound region, producing nutrient-rich compost 
used by local farms, businesses, governments and residents. 
Taking the partnership even further, the Seahawks and First 
& Goal Hospitality offered a custom gameday menu at the 
stadium, featuring organic vegetables grown by Sound 
Sustainable Farms using Cedar Grove compost.
Delta is also the official airline of Duke University Athletics. 
In 2017, we expanded this partnership further with a first-of-
its-kind sustainability program. Delta and Duke’s combined 
purchase of 5,000 carbon credits simultaneously offset carbon from all Duke University business travel on Delta in 2017, while 
supporting urban forestry in the Raleigh-Durham area through 
funding the planting and care of 1,000 new trees.
The program is being facilitated by North Carolina-based 
Urban Offsets. Approximately half of the trees being planted 
will benefit historically disadvantaged Raleigh-Durham 
neighborhoods identified through a 2016 Duke Nicholas 
School of the Environment student-led report outlining the 
red-lining policies of the 1930s that resulted in trees being 
planted in mostly wealthy white neighborhoods.
These purchases underscore Delta’s own commitment to 
carbon-neutral growth, which also was demonstrated during 
2017 when we extended offsets to customers nationwide for 
one day, offsetting emissions on all domestic travel into and 
out of Seattle, Boston, Los Angeles and all three New York-area 
airports. Approximately 30,000 offsets accounted for the 
travel of more than 100,000 customers. In addition, we offset 
company business travel for Delta employees during Earth 
Month in April, totaling more than 12,000 offsets purchased.PRIORITY: Environmentally Focused Customers ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  CLIMATE CHANGE             Partnerships to Make Travel Carbon Neutral
49 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Environmental Compliance
Think of an airline, and you might picture airplanes and check-in counters. But Delta’s operations, and our impact, go 
well beyond what most people see. Mechanics use chemicals and other materials in maintenance facilities to repair, 
clean and maintain aircraft. Customers generate waste at Delta Sky Clubs and in flight. Ground crews handle millions of 
gallons of fuel daily. And, safe drinking water must be on board every Delta flight. In each case, these actions have an 
environmental impact.
Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is a starting point 
for nearly every action we take. We view regulations as minimum 
requirements. Where we can, we go beyond compliance to make sure 
that our operations have the lowest possible environmental impact. 
And where regulations do not exist, we operate responsibly by following 
the best practices of the aviation industry and our knowledge of what’s 
best for our people and the environment.
We manage and measure performance in the following areas:
 »Number and volume of spills
 »Number of Notices of Violation/Non-Compliance
 »Number of Core Tasks completed on time in our Environmental 
Management Information System (EMIS) 
 »Compliance with air quality regulations
 »Compliance with hazardous and nonhazardous waste regulations
 »Compliance with drinking water and wastewater regulations
 »Compliance with hazardous materials regulations 
These areas are governed by Delta’s Environmental Policy, which is 
approved by our Executive Enviromental Leadership Council (EELC). 
During 2018, the Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance Committee 
began overseeing all environmental and climate-related risks.
 »Environmental Coordinators (ECs). ECs are located at all 
mainline airport stations and maintenance locations that we 
operate. They coordinate environmental actions, including 
conducting inspections, keeping records, liaising between airport 
environmental staff and regulatory authorities and overseeing 
airport service contractors. ECs also communicate our efforts to 
operating divisions and leadership at their respective stations. In 
addition, members of our corporate environmental compliance 
management team routinely work with ECs at each station to provide 
training and to ensure that all compliance work is monitored and 
audited using the same metrics and protocols across the system. New 
Airport Customer Service ECs must also attend live training sessions with an environmental compliance manager from their division and 
can enroll in follow-up training to gain more hands-on experience. 
In addition, ECs who use specialized equipment or have oversight 
in specific areas such as stormwater, hazardous waste or drinking 
water receive additional standardized compliance training in their 
areas of responsibility. 
 »Spill Drills. In the event of a spill, Delta employees are trained 
to follow internally approved and externally compliant procedures 
for mitigation. We provide both computer-based and hands-on 
training for spill response and cleanup. During the initial phase of 
a response, Delta personnel are trained to protect people’s safety; 
stop the leak and contain the spill; notify the airport fire department 
and airport authority; gather information on the location, cause, 
material and quantity spilled; and determine with airport personnel 
whether the spill is controlled and contained. 
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE     
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
50 »Compliance Visits. These formal, nonregulatory visits provide 
additional opportunities for corporate environmental managers 
to reinforce training and provide additional guidance and valuable 
feedback to station and divisional leaders. In 2017, we transitioned 
to conducting all compliance visits in-house, rather than using 
third parties. This allows us to conduct visits more regularly and 
give valued feedback directly to operations employees. This 
comprehensive process, in turn, allows us to maintain continuous 
compliance by identifying operational and process improvements, 
while also providing opportunities for creating corrective action 
plans as necessary.
 »Environmental Programs Manual (EPM). This document 
helps ensure compliance by explaining exactly how to follow 
environmental regulations. The EPM is managed at a corporate 
level and is updated to ensure that it addresses all applicable 
local, state and federal environmental regulations. It provides a 
consistent set of guidelines and best practices for all of Delta’s  
U.S.-based operations.  »Environmental Management System (EMS). Another internal 
management tool, the EMS is used to proactively manage and track 
station-specific roles, responsibilities, records and documents, 
which helps airport stations understand their commitments for 
documenting and monitoring environmental compliance. Users 
are provided with a proactive tool that outlines environmental 
requirements and methods for complying. 
 »Environmental Management Information System (EMIS). 
EMIS is a web-based tracking tool that works with EMS and 
gives stations a system for ensuring compliance with automated 
notifications and task descriptions. In addition to task completion, 
compliance information and data can be entered online, allowing it 
to be monitored by corporate, divisional and operational leaders. 
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE     
51 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Managing & Mitigating Spills 
Our environmental policies include procedures for preventing hazardous substances associated with our 
operations from entering the environment. These procedures explain how to store and handle all Delta-required 
substances and materials. This includes petroleum products like jet fuel, diesel fuel, gasoline and hydraulic fluid,  
as well as other substances such as glycol-based aircraft deicing fluids. 
Our first step and ongoing goal is to prevent spills from occurring. 
However, in the event of a spill, Delta employees are trained to follow 
internally approved and externally compliant procedures for mitigation.
When a spill happens, we manage the spill in an environmentally 
responsible manner, containing it, beginning cleanup and completing 
all required regulatory reporting and documentation. Then, involved 
personnel communicate the incident to station and division leadership. At 
that point, corporate environmental managers conduct a comprehensive 
analysis of the entire incident. Their goal is to gather any lessons  
to be learned from the experience, so we can prevent future spills 
from happening.
To continually improve our progress on spills, we set goals for our 
operating divisions and track spill performance throughout the 
year. Where required under spill reporting guidelines, for volumetric 
amounts of Class I and Class II* spills, or spills entering the environment 
via a storm drain or soil, we report incidents to local, state and federal 
regulatory agencies. Other reportable environmental compliance areas 
include wastewater discharges, air emissions and solid waste, but can 
include any regulated material that may enter the environment. We investigate all Class I and II spills to determine causes and contributing 
factors. This helps us develop solutions that benefit all stations. 
In 2017, Delta experienced an increase in the number of reportable spills 
overall. Our total number of recordable Class I and Class II spills was 
93, six above our goal, and this number includes a total of 21 regulatory 
reportable spills, a 31 percent increase over 2016. With the goal of 
continuous improvement, the annual variability of spill numbers is due 
to the growth in operational events and variations in the frequency of 
fueling, fleet type, deicing events and other maintenance activities. 
Annual variability will continue to affect our reported spills on a  
year-over-year basis.
NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS 
We received three notices of violation (NOVs) from an environmental 
regulatory agency in 2017. One NOV was for failure to pay an industrial 
wastewater permit fee on time; one was for an exceedance of a permit 
condition in an industrial wastewater discharge; and one was for a 
failure to submit a remedial investigation report on time. No NOV 
resulted in a monetary penalty to the company.
* Class I: Any spill that reaches soil and/or water and/or any spill equal to or greater than 25 gallons. 
Class II: Any spill that is equal to or more than five gallons, but less than 25 gallons and does not reach soil and/or water.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE             Managing & Mitigating Spills
52 DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTT otal Number and Volume of Significant Spills
2017 ACS, DCC, GESC AND TOC SPILLS
Spill  
MaterialAirport Customer  
Service (ACS) Delta Connection  
Carriers (DCC)Global Environment,  
Sustainability &  
Compliance (GESC)T echnical  
Operations (TOC)T otal
Count Volume 
(gals)Count Volume 
(gals)Count Volume 
(gals)Count Volume 
(gals)Count Volume 
(gals)
Diesel/  
Gasoline0 0 2 36 0 0 1 30 3 66
Glycol 10 470 2 275 0 0 0 0 12 745
Hydraulic 
Fluid10 162 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 162
Jet A Fuel 21 1,321 19 273 0 0 14 225 54 1,819
Lav Fluid/
Waste6 153 2 10 0 0 1 10 9 173
Other* 5 59 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 59
Total 52 2,165 25 594 0 0 16 265 93 3,024
*Aqueous Film Forming Foam, Antifreeze, Engine Oil, Industrial Waste Water, Varsol
Recorded Spills and Spill Goals
2014 2015 2016 2017
Class I Recorded Spills 38 41 40 38
Class II Recorded Spills 43 54 51 55
Total Recorded Spills (Class I + Class II) 81 95 91 93
Regulatory Reportable Spills 22 28 16 21
Annual Spill Goal (Class I + Class II) 69 100 90 87
Notices of Violations/Noncompliance
2014 2015 2016 2017
Notice of Violation Goal 2 2 5 3
Noncompliance/Permit Exceedances Goal 4 * * *
Performance (by year)
Notice of Violation 5 7 2 3
Noncompliance/Permit Exceedances 1 * * *
Monetary Value ($) of significant fines $0 $0 $0 $0
*With the goal of continuous improvement, in 2015, Delta did not set a goal for noncompliance/permit exceedances. This decision was made due, in part, to the limited number of histori-
cally reported incidents, as well as the goal to focus on identifying and minimizing the occurrence of documentable compliance violations. Refocusing of our efforts has also allowed us to 
establish best practices for the avoidance of reportable regulatory violations. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE             Managing & Mitigating Spills
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
53Protecting Air Quality
Delta is committed to reducing air emissions, including carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter 
(PM), sulfur oxides (SOx), volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and hazardous air pollutants (HAPs). 
To help improve air quality around airports, our stations and 
Technical Operations facilities comply with federal, state, city, 
county and district requirements. Third-party environmental 
professionals review and audit our air quality programs for 
compliance as necessary. These audits include a multifaceted 
inspection of agency reporting, emissions records and work 
practices.  Delta tracks stationary and mobile equipment that 
contains ozone-depleting substances (ODS), chemicals that destroy 
stratospheric ozone. These substances are commonly found in 
aerosol products, foams and fire extinguishers. They are also used as 
refrigerants in air conditioning and cooling equipment. 
ODS Class I and II refrigerants are categorized based on their 
ozone-depleting potential. Because these units contain regulated 
substances, only certified technicians can perform maintenance 
that involves accessing the refrigerant-containing circuits. During 
required maintenance and servicing, we take all appropriate 
measures to prevent release of ODS into the atmosphere. Where 
feasible, we buy or retrofit equipment that contains a substitute 
refrigerant with a lower global warming potential.
In addition, eight Delta facilities must file routine emissions 
inventory reports due to individual state requirements. This includes 
tracking five pollutants that may contribute to climate change: CO, 
NOx, PM, SOx and VOCs. Seven sites require regulatory reporting 
annually, and one requires reporting every three years. The eight 
facilities are:
 »Atlanta Technical Operations Center, Atlanta, Georgia
 »Atlanta Airport Station, Atlanta, Georgia
 »Atlanta Corporate Headquarters, Atlanta, Georgia
 »Minneapolis Airport Station and Technical Operations Center 
(combined reporting), Minneapolis, Minnesota »Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport Office Building J, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota
 »Iron Range/Hibbing Reservation Center, Hibbing, Minnesota
 »Cincinnati Airport Station, Cincinnati, Ohio
 »Salt Lake City Airport Station, Salt Lake City, Utah  
(triennial reporting)
PROGRESS ON AIR QUALITY IN CALIFORNIA  
At the end of 2017, Delta was compliant with all mobile source equipment 
rules in California, which are more stringent than those imposed on our 
other domestic operations. Delta’s goal in California is to meet the air 
emissions requirements set by the state. In addition, we set our ground 
support equipment replacement and retrofit schedules in California 
to meet those required by regulation.
Our off-road diesel fleet in California proactively achieved the 2019 target 
of 4.1 grams of NOx per brake horsepower-hour, a standard measure for 
heavy-duty and nonroad engines. We achieved this target due to credits 
obtained by using electric off-road vehicles in place of diesel vehicles or 
adding newer diesel vehicles with verified emission controls in place.
We also surpassed the large spark ignition engine targets for forklift 
and nonforklift subsets. For the forklift group, we exceeded the 
mandate for hydrocarbon (HC) and NOx emissions (1.1 g/bhp-hr) with 
our fleet average of 1.0 g/bhp-hr. For the nonforklift group, we exceeded 
the mandate for HC and NOx emissions (2.5 g/bhp-hr) with our fleet 
average of 2.1 g/bhp-hr.
Finally, we met 2017 compliance targets for the diesel Airborne 
Toxic Control Measures. To do this, we achieved the particulate 
matter standard of 0.18 g/bhp-hr for portable nondrive diesel 
engines under 175 horsepower and 0.08 g/bhp-hr for similar 
engines between 175–750 horsepower.
Mandated Reporting Emissions Progress Emissions (tons/year)
Criteria Pollutant Emissions 2014 2015 2016 2017
CO 308.7 53.8 42.7 159.9
NOx 154.2 103.5 98.4 133.4
PM 15.7 10.9 23.3 24.2
SO2 20.4 12.1 11.7 12.2
VOC 199.6 128.4 159.2 179.5ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE             Protecting Air Quality
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
54Aircraft Drinking Water
Aircraft drinking water is a top priority to ensure customer safety and satisfaction. Each Delta plane is equipped  
with a tank system that holds anywhere from 38 gallons to 290 gallons of water, depending on fleet size and type.
This water is needed for hot tea and coffee made in the galleys, while 
regular drinking water is served from bottles. The onboard water system 
also supports sinks and commodes in the lavatories.
Delta sources local water from municipal water sources that have been 
approved by the EPA as a public water system. Public water systems 
are held to the EPA’s National Primary Drinking Water Standards. As 
required by EPA’s Aircraft Drinking Water Rule, Delta disinfects each of 
its more than 950 aircraft four times per year, performs water quality 
sampling once per year and reports this information to EPA on an 
ongoing basis. Delta Cabin Maintenance mechanics are responsible for 
performing disinfections and taking water samples.For flights to international locations, potable water used on our 
aircraft must meet EPA requirements that water be absent of total 
coliform bacteria, an indicator of potential water contamination. 
If coliform is detected in any water sample, Delta performs 
prescribed corrective measures at the earliest possible opportunity 
for each aircraft. These measures include further disinfection of 
the water tank and follow-up sampling. Total water consumption 
across airport stations is unable to be tracked and monitored due 
to varying scenarios where we do not own and/or manage property 
and leaseholds, thereby making it impossible to measure water 
usage as a whole.
Changing the Course of Water Conservation
Delta and 
Hartsfield-
Jackson Atlanta 
International 
Airport are giving 
visitors a chance 
to contribute to 
the conservation 
of waterways 
nationwide. We 
recently launched 
a partnership 
to support 
Bonneville 
Environmental Foundation’s Change the Course, a freshwater 
conservation and restoration initiative. Customers and 
employees can replenish waterways across North America 
by texting the word “Delta” to 474747, or by refilling a 
reusable water bottle at water filling stations on Delta 
concourses and throughout the Atlanta airport. Change the Course restores 1,000 gallons of water for every text 
received and bottle filled. The partnership aims to restore 
approximately 30 million gallons of water within a year.
Delta and the Atlanta airport’s support of Change the Course 
will go toward the Flint River Water Stewardship project, 
which provides funding, outreach and technical support to 
modernize irrigation systems, maximize crop production, 
reduce water use and restore flows in important areas 
throughout the lower Flint River Basin. The river runs  
344 miles across the state, including underneath  
Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport.
Georgia’s rivers provide drinking water for millions and 
supply farms, cities and businesses across the state. These 
freshwater ecosystems are home to some of the greatest 
aquatic biodiversity in North America. Pressures like drought, 
pollution and population growth, however, have stressed 
rivers and freshwater supplies, putting natural ecosystems 
and local economies at risk. Change the Course fosters 
the innovation, partnership and stewardship necessary to 
sustain the water supply and improve water quality.PRIORITY: Water-Conscious Customers
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE             Aircraft Drinking Water
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
55 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Thinking Differently About Waste
Reducing the waste that we generate is important both for meeting our environmental compliance commitments and 
lowering our overall environmental impact. We continually assess our waste streams and waste handling operations 
to identify high-value materials for reuse and recycling, as well as ways to minimize what we send to landfills.
HAZARDOUS WASTE  
Hazardous wastes are a byproduct of operating a safe and 
compliant commercial airline. We recognize the negative societal 
and environmental impacts of improper handling and disposal of 
hazardous waste—including harm to the health of our employees and local communities. Accordingly, Delta has initiatives in place to ensure 
proper disposal and to meet all applicable regulatory handling and 
disposal requirements. Delta’s hazardous waste is carefully managed by 
vetted and approved handlers to ensure that both Delta and the public 
remain protected and safe.
Delta has waste minimization plans at all large-quantity generator 
locations and is working to reduce hazardous waste generation. 
However, due to expanded maintenance operations and improvements 
to our product and maintenance service offerings, we generated more 
hazardous waste in 2017 than in prior years. As a result, we did not 
achieve our 2017 goal for hazardous waste generation, which was a 
reduction from the 432 tons generated in 2016. Our 2018 goal is less than 
477 tons of hazardous waste, and we will track and monitor this goal 
monthly. Establishing this goal increases transparency and compels us to 
continuously identify ways to reduce our environmental impact. 
NONHAZARDOUS WASTE   
Operating a major airline includes not only management of our own 
waste, but also customer-generated waste materials. Delta-generated 
waste includes waste from operations, maintenance and construction 
activities at airports and other locations where partners can separate 
our materials and send us waste stream volumes. 
Understanding and handling this complex mix of waste streams means 
that not all nonhazardous waste that is generated can be recycled or 
diverted from a landfill. Working toward the highest possible diversion 
rate, we continually seek to identify both materials and opportunities to 
increase our landfill diversion efforts. 
Nonhazardous Waste Generation (in tons)
Material Streams 2014 2015 2016 2017
Landfilled or Incinerated Materials 1,405 1,465 1,426 1,135 
Landfilled Construction Debris 361 0 220 0
Recycled Material 1,085 1,310 1,124 1,529
Reused/Upcycled Materials 42.8 17.3 23.4 19We have identified three main waste streams 
varying by material type and regulatory 
handling requirements. 
HAZARDOUS  
WASTEHeavily regulated waste that must 
be disposed of in accordance with 
applicable local, state and federal 
handling requirements
RECYCLABLE 
MATERIALNonregulated materials 
that can be diverted from 
landfills for reuse again as 
the same materialNONHAZARDOUS  
WASTE
Consists of 
items that are 
not “trash” as a 
consumer might 
think of it, but are 
not regulated in 
the same way as 
hazardous  
wasteENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE            Thinking Differently About Waste
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
56Much like our approach to hazardous waste, in 2017 we targeted year-
over-year improvements for reducing the nonhazardous waste volume 
generated in our operations. In 2017, we produced 2,664 total tons of 
nonhazardous waste, which includes reusable and recyclable materials. 
This number is down from 2,792 tons in 2016.
REUSABLE MATERIAL   
Delta has embraced the concept of “upcycling,” or giving materials 
second life as new product or product inputs. These innovative 
diversion programs, launched with a variety of partners and vendors, 
reduce the amount of new materials needed to produce new products 
in the marketplace. Working with our partners, through 2017 we 
diverted just under 40,000 pounds of leather seat covers in total. 
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL  
A major way we’re reducing our environmental impact is by identifying 
and diverting valuable recyclable materials from our waste streams. 
We’re doing this both through recycling goods on flights where 
we maintain control of the materials at the station level, and by 
encouraging our employees to recycle at home and at work using our Atlanta-based Employee Recycling Center. In both efforts, we donate all 
rebate funds to Delta community and employee support programs. 
FINDING VALUE IN RECYCLED GOODS  
Delta’s in-flight commingled recycling program, in operation since 
2007, is a great example of our commitment to reducing waste in the 
air and on the ground. While the program is not available on every Delta 
flight, due to destination airport service availability and operational 
constraints, we do offer onboard recycling options for 35 destination 
cities. We collect single-stream materials, including plastic, aluminum 
and paper, during flights and bag them for diversion. Upon flight arrival, 
the materials are collected by the Cabin Service team or catering team 
and transported to airport recycling centers. 
Delta catering partners at select airport stations also collect and 
recycle empty cans and bottles purposely left in beverage carts. A 
new aluminum can recycling partner supplied a can compactor to the 
domestic flight kitchen, which allowed us to significantly increase the 
number of cans we collected and processed in 2017. We are currently 
exploring the potential of expanding this partnership to process 
Recycling Uniforms to Support Job Training
Delta people tested thousands of garments from our 
new uniform collection to find the best possible fit 
and function. When the wear test ended, the Delta 
uniform team set out to find a creative way to give 
these garments new life. Nonbranded clothing could 
be donated easily; however, Delta-branded uniform 
pieces presented more of a challenge. 
That led us to partner with re:loom, an Atlanta 
organization that helps individuals address obstacles 
to employment through paid on-site job training 
and leadership opportunities. At re:loom, weavers 
design and produce handmade products and lead a 
team of weavehouse volunteers. With a stable salary, 
100 percent healthcare coverage and opportunities 
to engage in the operation of the weavehouse, 
employees gain a financial foundation, leadership 
skills and a sense of purpose and accomplishment. The program repurposed Delta’s Zac Posen–designed 
uniforms into rugs, keychains and other colorful 
products—finding use for materials that would have 
otherwise gone to waste.PRIORITY: Individuals Who Need Job Training
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE            Thinking Differently About Waste
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
57 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.cans from international flights inbound to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta 
International Airport. If implemented, the program will take place in 
partnership with the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol to ensure that 
Delta remains compliant with all U.S. regulations. 
There are 34 domestic recycling locations and one international 
recycling location across the Delta system. We do not always receive 
rebates or volumes for these materials due to airport-specific protocols 
for removing waste, but we are nevertheless committed to removing 
these items from the waste stream. Thanks to our increased can 
recycling volume, the program set a record for collection and revenue 
in 2017 of more than $250,000. We continue to donate rebates earned 
from Delta’s in-flight recycling program to Habitat for Humanity through 
Delta’s Community Engagement team. From the proceeds raised in 2017, 
Delta will be able to build two Habitat homes in the metro Atlanta area. 
Total rebates from 2007 to 2017 totaled more than $1,000,000. These 
funds have been used, along with Delta employee volunteer hours, to 
fund and build nine Habitat for Humanity homes in five Delta cities, with 
two more on the way.
IN-FLIGHT RECYCLING CHALLENGES  
Materials handling and infrastructure issues pose a challenge to 
capturing and reporting progress on in-flight recycling efforts. At 
most domestic locations, we encounter challenges in measuring 
diversion rates and understanding trends for recycling efforts 
once materials leave our aircraft. Our waste streams may become intertwined with other carriers’ waste, or airport authorities may 
choose not to share this information. This difficulty, combined with 
more airports developing their own recycling programs, means 
that we foresee continued challenges in capturing, tracking and 
monitoring total volumes for our recycling efforts.
International flight regulations also pose challenges to increasing 
in-flight recycling. The U.S. Department of Agriculture considers 
materials from international flights contaminated with meat, dairy 
and/or produce to be regulated waste, which must be thermally 
treated to ensure there is no contamination to domestic U.S. 
agriculture. Similar rules exist in every country to which we fly. For 
this reason, Delta’s greatest challenge remains how best to collect 
and separate materials to keep recyclable materials uncontaminated 
both onboard the aircraft and upon arrival at the international  
flight kitchen.
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE            Thinking Differently About Waste
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
58Celebrating 10 Years of On-Board Recycling 
In 2007, Delta became the first airline with a comprehensive 
in-flight recycling program for cans, newspapers, water bottles 
and snack containers. Take a look back at what we’ve achieved. 
26,000  
cubic yards  
Landfill space  
spared
110
Number of 747-400 
widebody aircraft 
collected material
 could fill6,500 tons  
Material collected
$1 M+
Raised from recycled 
goods to build Habitat  
for Humanity homesENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE            Thinking Differently About Waste
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
59RECYCLING AT DEL TA HEADQUARTERS  
In support of the largest concentration of Delta employees and 
Delta office space domestically, the Employee Recycling Center 
(ERC) in Atlanta provides a place for all employees to recycle 
materials generated at home and process recyclables from our 
Atlanta headquarters. 
Employees can bring materials that include aluminum cans, plastic 
bottles, glass, tin and paper. We also have an employee recycling 
program at the Atlanta Technical Operations Center. The ERC donates 
all rebate funds to the Delta Employee & Retiree Care Fund to help 
individuals who suffer from severe financial hardship resulting from 
unforeseen and unavoidable crises such as natural disasters. Delta is reviewing the operations at our corporate campus to 
determine what changes must be made to qualify as a zero-waste 
facility. There is no universally accepted definition of what “zero 
waste” means, and we have chosen to define it as at least 90 percent 
diversion from landfills. A cross-functional team of employees is 
evaluating Delta’s current recycling practices, composting options 
and potential offsite waste-to-energy solutions to determine next 
steps for reaching our zero-waste goal. 
Currently, multiple Delta Sky Club locations, including those in Seattle, 
Minneapolis-St. Paul and San Francisco meet our definition of zero 
waste. These Delta Sky Clubs recycle packaging, compost leftover food 
and offer ecoconscious food service items. 
Recycling Stations Recycled T ons Rebates
Recyclables201535
201635Stations Tons
201735
201432
2015779
2016767
2017784
2014751Rebates
2015$109,548
2016$99,059
2017$251,234
2014$85,283
COMMINGLED 617
 ALUMINUM 92
 PAPER 31
 PLASTICS 12 
 
 
 2014
COMMINGLED 560
 ALUMINUM 142
 PAPER 51
 PLASTICS 14 
 
 
 2016COMMINGLED 576
 ALUMINUM 165
 PAPER 29
 PLASTICS 9 
 
 
 2015
COMMINGLED 829
 ALUMINUM 632
 PAPER 89
 PLASTICS 16 
 
 
 2017201535
201635Stations Tons
201735
201432
2015779
2016767
2017784
2014751Rebates
2015$109,548
2016$99,059
2017$251,234
2014$85,283
COMMINGLED 617
 ALUMINUM 92
 PAPER 31
 PLASTICS 12 
 
 
 2014
COMMINGLED 560
 ALUMINUM 142
 PAPER 51
 PLASTICS 14 
 
 
 2016COMMINGLED 576
 ALUMINUM 165
 PAPER 29
 PLASTICS 9 
 
 
 2015
COMMINGLED 829
 ALUMINUM 632
 PAPER 89
 PLASTICS 16 
 
 
 2017201535
201635Stations Tons
201735
201432
2015779
2016767
2017784
2014751Rebates
2015$109,548
2016$99,059
2017$251,234
2014$85,283
COMMINGLED 617
 ALUMINUM 92
 PAPER 31
 PLASTICS 12 
 
 
 2014
COMMINGLED 560
 ALUMINUM 142
 PAPER 51
 PLASTICS 14 
 
 
 2016COMMINGLED 576
 ALUMINUM 165
 PAPER 29
 PLASTICS 9 
 
 
 2015
COMMINGLED 829
 ALUMINUM 632
 PAPER 89
 PLASTICS 16 
 
 
 2017201535
201635Stations Tons
201735
201432
2015779
2016767
2017784
2014751Rebates
2015$109,548
2016$99,059
2017$251,234
2014$85,283
COMMINGLED 617
 ALUMINUM 92
 PAPER 31
 PLASTICS 12 
 
 
 2014
COMMINGLED 560
 ALUMINUM 142
 PAPER 51
 PLASTICS 14 
 
 
 2016COMMINGLED 576
 ALUMINUM 165
 PAPER 29
 PLASTICS 9 
 
 
 2015
COMMINGLED 829
 ALUMINUM 632
 PAPER 89
 PLASTICS 16 
 
 
 2017ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  »  ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE            Thinking Differently About Waste
In T ons
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
60IN THIS CHAPTER
Education ............................................... 64
Health & Wellness .............................. 66
Armed Service Members  
& Veterans  ............................................ 68
CommunityCommunity
Giving back has been core to our culture for more than 80 years. Delta’s mission to serve as a global network 
connecting people, places and communities is reflected in our long-term commitment to action and outreach that 
makes communities better places to live. 
At Delta, charitable giving is driven by our success, as we invest 
1 percent of the previous year’s net income each year into the 
communities where we live, work and serve. This continual 
commitment raises the bar for Delta’s Community Engagement 
program, formalizing communities as one of our key stakeholders. 
Based on 2016 earnings, Delta and The Delta Air Lines Foundation  
gave more than $45 million back to communities in 2017. We think 
of these actions as profit sharing for the community: the more our 
business succeeds, the bigger difference we can make. Delta’s community efforts are guided by three pillars of focus: 
Education, Health and Wellness, and Armed Service Members 
and Veterans. Through corporate giving, donations and employee 
volunteerism, we aim to enhance educational opportunities, improve 
health and wellness accessibility across the globe and support our 
armed service members, veterans and their families nationally. 
COMMUNITY   
62 DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTDelta’s Community Engagement 
26  Junior Achievement chapters 
supported across 
4 continents to teach financial 
literacy, work readiness and 
entrepreneurship education253  Habitat homes 
built in 12  countries since 1995
9,375  pints of blood donated 
to the American Red Cross in fiscal 
year 2017 (YE 6/30)
#2  corporate blood donor in U.S.
19  children’s hospitals 
supported worldwide
including 14  Children’s 
Miracle Network Hospitals
22  food banks supported 
worldwide
including 17  Feeding America 
food banks
$4.3 million  
to 7Red Cross organizations in 
support of global disaster relief20  KaBOOM! playgrounds 
built across 10  markets since 
2013, giving kids a safe place  
to play
25  YMCA chapters 
supported across 5 countries 
through programs that include 
swim lessons, tutoring, job 
shadows and more148 million  miles 
donated to Fisher House 
Foundation’s Hero Miles Program 
and Luke’s Wings since 2013
$735,000
1,330  bikes and 
2,500  toys donated  
to Marine T oys for T ots
11  USO chapters supported as well 
as the Freedom Center in Detroit 
and the Armed Forces Service 
Center in Minneapolis-St. Paul
1,825 employees 
participated in 16  Pride  
events worldwide40+ Arts and culture 
organizations supported
$6 million raised by employees and customers for 
the American Cancer Society, American Heart Association, 
Breast Cancer Research Foundation and United WayEDUCATION ARMED SERVICE MEMBERS
& VETERANSHEAL TH & WELLNESS
OTHER INITIATIVESCOMMUNITY             Delta's Community Engagement
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
63Education
Today’s students will be tomorrow’s Delta employees, customers and shareholders. Our global education efforts 
aim to spark students’ imaginations and position them for bright futures in aviation and the general workforce. 
In line with this commitment, we invest in organizations that engage 
students in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) 
programs and underscore the importance of financial literacy, 
economics and entrepreneurship. 
 »Delta supports 26 Junior Achievement chapters across four 
continents, igniting students’ interest in aviation careers through 
job shadows and outreach programs that teach financial literacy, 
entrepreneurship, macroeconomics, business and career readiness. 
 »Delta and The Delta Air Lines Foundation have implemented 
our education strategy through immersive collegiate partnerships 
that include Auburn University, Clark Atlanta University, Emory 
University, Georgia State University, Georgia Tech, Morehouse 
College, Morehouse School of Medicine, Spelman College and the 
University of Georgia to enhance leadership development, higher education and aviation programs and facilities to encourage 
innovation in the aerospace industry. 
 »Each March, Technical Operations and Flight Operations 
employees share the science of aviation with more than 20,000 
students at the Atlanta Science Festival’s Exploration Expo, 
which celebrates and promotes STEM education. 
In addition, Delta supports early education programs, recognizing 
that learning can take on many forms. 
 »In 2017, our employees built KaBOOM! playgrounds in 
Atlanta, Cincinnati, Minneapolis and Washington, D.C. Delta has 
contributed to 20 total KaBOOM! playground builds across  
10 markets since 2013—giving students and local kids safe 
places to play. COMMUNITY             Education
64 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. »In July, we launched our partnership with Atlanta Public 
Schools (APS), pledging to contribute $500,000 over five years 
to improve the quality of education and literacy rates at two 
elementary schools in the South Atlanta cluster for APS, each 
located near Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. 
The partnership includes ongoing reading and tutoring support 
with Delta employees and helps cover essential student needs 
like books, clothing, reading glasses and meals. 
 »Delta partners with 25 YMCA chapters globally, helping 
children, adults and families with programs and services including afterschool care, financial assistance, global education, 
swimming, mentoring, early learning readiness and more. 
 »Through our partnership with the National Flight Academy, 
more than 430 students from our community partners and 
children of Delta employees spend six days aboard the world’s 
only virtual land-locked aircraft carrier located in Pensacola, 
Florida. Students role play as pilots, develop their skills in 
simulators and test their mental preparedness, communication 
and teamwork in immersive scenarios that inspire students to 
learn about aviation and STEM careers. 
Delta Partners With Junior Achievement Globally  
to Grow Pipeline of Future Talent
Delta strives to give students around the world the 
opportunity to succeed in a global economy. Our 
partnership with Junior Achievement (JA)—now 
spanning 26 chapters across four continents—aims 
to spark students’ interest in aviation careers, while 
teaching financial literacy, work readiness and 
entrepreneurship education through job shadows and 
outreach programs.
Through JA, we have inspired more than 800,000 
students—the next generation of Delta employees and 
customers. Students work alongside Delta employees, 
shadowing leaders on the job at key Delta hubs for a behind-the-scenes look at airport operations. In 
Atlanta, Detroit, Los Angeles, New York and Salt Lake 
City, students learn financial literacy and budgeting 
skills through interactive Delta Sky Club® storefronts 
at JA Finance Park and BizTown facilities. Delta also 
supports JA’s U.K. chapter, Young Enterprise, through job 
shadows at Heathrow Airport and sponsorship of Young 
Enterprise’s annual Company Programme Trade Fair and 
the National Finals. And since 2015, Delta has supported 
the JA Company of the Year competition, presenting the 
Delta Social Impact Award to students across the globe 
who have shown entrepreneurial thinking to develop an 
innovative solution to a social challenge. 
In addition, Delta launched a new educational strategy 
with the JA Academy program in Georgia with students 
from Benjamin Banneker High School for the 2016–2017 
school year. Students work though case study challenges 
in the classroom and participate in job shadows at  
Delta hubs to integrate learning and experience in a 
real-world, hands-on approach. As a result, JA Academy 
participants have significantly outperformed non-
JA Academy peers academically as part of Georgia’s 
Milestone performance ratings. PRIORITY: The Next Generation of Employees & CustomersCOMMUNITY             Education
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
65 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Health & Wellness 
Supporting global health and wellness initiatives is an important way Delta helps meet employees’ and customers’ 
basic needs while building connections with business and community leaders. 
Each year, Delta employees and customers raise millions of dollars 
for organizations actively working to promote wellness, combat 
disease and fight hunger. Highlights from 2017 include:
 »Delta people have helped build or rehab 253 homes in  
12 countries across the globe through our more than 20-year 
partnership with Habitat for Humanity. Each year, more than 
2,500 employees volunteer their time to build safe and affordable 
homes. Throughout 2017, Delta employees constructed 12 homes 
in Chulavista, Mexico, in addition to homes in Atlanta, Los Angeles, 
Minneapolis, New York and Seattle. 
 »Delta supports 19 hospital organizations in the U.S. and the 
U.K., 14 of which are Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals, and 
serves as the presenting sponsor of Children’s Miracle Week 
in Orlando each year. Other hospital support includes Great 
Ormond Street Hospital in the U.K. and St. Jude Children’s 
Research Hospital.  »Employees volunteer at 22 food banks across the globe, 17 of 
which are Feeding America food banks. Our support included 
Delta’s eighth year of monthly volunteering with Food Bank for 
New York City. 
In addition, our commitment to action and outreach is exemplified 
through a variety of employee-run initiatives. 
 »Since 2005, Delta employees and customers have raised 
an unprecedented $12.8 million for Breast Cancer Research 
Foundation (BCRF). We celebrated the 13th anniversary of the 
“Breast Cancer One” survivor flight in October—our keystone 
event that kicks off a month-long campaign to generate 
awareness and raise money for BCRF. The Pink Plane carried 
140 employee breast cancer survivors from Atlanta to Seattle to 
celebrate their victories, share inspiring stories of courage and 
raise funds for breast cancer research. 
COMMUNITY             Health & Wellness
66 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. »Employees raised a record $2.3 million in 2017 in support of the 
American Cancer Society through events such as Relay for Life, the 
Delta Jet Drag and the Hope Ball. Delta has supported the American 
Cancer Society for 16 years and has contributed more than $11 million 
to support the organization’s lifesaving initiatives, including medical 
research, education and patient programs.
 »Delta employees annually contribute approximately  
$1.6 million to United Way—a longstanding partner  
of more than 30 years. In addition, we have a 100 percent  
giving participation rate from officers and directors across  
the company. 
Delta and Our Employees Join Forces in Support of the 
American Red Cross Disaster Relief Programs
Since World War II, Delta has partnered with the American 
Red Cross—our longest-standing nonprofit partner. Delta 
provides ongoing contributions to the American Red Cross  
as an Annual Disaster Giving Program member at the  
$1 million level and holds blood drives across the country, 
ranking as the second-largest corporate donor of blood  
in the U.S. Delta hosts the largest single-site corporate blood 
drive in the U.S at our TechOps in Atlanta, which consistently 
generates more than 500 units of blood each drive.
From July 2016 to June 2017, Delta employees donated 
9,375 total pints of blood at 178 drives across  
32 donation locations, making Delta the largest corporate 
donor in the Southeast. In March, Delta was also the 
proud recipient of the American Red Cross Biomedical 
Partnership Award for our blood drive donation model. Through our partnership with the American Red Cross, 
Delta Air Lines, The Delta Air Lines Foundation and our 
employees mobilized during disaster when Hurricanes 
Harvey, Maria and Irma devastated the Gulf Coast  
and the Caribbean and multiple earthquakes struck 
in Mexico in the fall of 2017. A combined $4.3 million 
was donated to the American Red Cross and various 
international Red Cross societies to help those directly 
affected by the natural disasters.PRIORITY: Neighbors & Communities in Crisis  COMMUNITY             Health & Wellness
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
67 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.Armed Service Members & Veterans 
Nearly 12,000 veterans and military personnel, including pilots and aircraft mechanics, are currently employed at 
Delta, many of whom balance active duty with their Delta jobs.
In recognition of this, we support organizations that help  
military service members, veterans and their families across  
the United States. 
 »Delta serves as a principal funder of four Fisher House 
facilities, a network of comfort homes where families of 
military personnel can stay at no cost while their loved ones 
receive medical treatment. In 2017, Delta participated in the 
groundbreaking of two homes near James J. Peters VA Medical 
Center in Bronx, New York, slated to open spring 2019. 
 »In addition to employee-led toy drives across the system in 
2017, Delta contributed $735,000 to Toys for Tots, which is run 
by the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve, toward funding in 17 markets, 
including $100,000 toward the national literacy program. In 
Atlanta and Detroit, employees also participated in bike builds 
where 1,330 bikes were constructed and 1,000 helmets and 
2,500 toys were collected for local youth. 
 »Delta supports 11 USO chapters systemwide, as well as the 
Freedom Center in the Detroit Metropolitan Airport and the Armed Forces Service Center in the Minneapolis-Saint Paul 
International Airport. Each year, Delta supports USO Fleet Week 
in Los Angeles, New York and Seattle. In 2017, employees built 
over 500 bikes to be distributed to children of military personnel 
in partnership with USO of Metro New York.
 »As a national sponsor of the Congressional Medal of Honor 
Foundation, Delta honors the legacy of the living Medal of Honor 
recipients with our highest SkyMiles status, Diamond Medallion. 
Delta customers also support our commitment to military personnel 
through SkyWish, the charitable arm of the SkyMiles program. 
 »In 2017, Delta and our customers donated a combined  
10.4 million miles to the Fisher House Foundation’s Hero Miles 
Program and Luke’s Wings, helping to reconnect hundreds of 
service members with their loved ones during hospitalization. 
Over the past four years, Delta and our customers donated more than 
148 million miles to these organizations. 
COMMUNITY             Armed Service Members & Veterans 
68 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.APPENDIX
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
69Environmental 
Compliance
About This Report ............................ 71
Financial Performance .................... 72
Freedom of Association .................. 72
Governance ......................................... 72
Corporate Governance ................ 72
Sustainability Governance ......... 72
Board Education  
& Communication ........................ 73
Political Contributions  
& Lobbying Transparency .......... 73 
Risk Management ........................ 73Health Benefits .................................... 74
Travel & Work Health ................... 74
Subsidiaries .......................................... 75
Structure ................................................ 75
Supply Chain ......................................... 76
Supplier ESG Assessment ........... 76
Supplier Diversity .................................. 77
Stakeholder Engagement .................. 77
Stakeholder Engagement  
At-A-Glance .................................... 78
Verification Statement ...................... 80Table of
Contents
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
70APPENDIX              About This Report
This Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) presents our defined 
material areas and metrics as of December 31, 2017. We issue our 
CRR on an annual basis. This 2017 report is an update to our previous 
report published in 2016. For all material Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs), we present data for the current year and data for at least  
three previous years. 
GRI CONTENT 
This report has been prepared in accordance with Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards at the Comprehensive application level. 
This report also provides additional information and data, not 
specified by GRI, that we and our stakeholders deem relevant to 
business operations. A complete GRI Standards content index is 
included in this report beginning on page 82.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE  
We conduct assurance to verify our main environmental impact—
carbon emissions. The external assurance statement for emissions is 
on page 80. Ruby Canyon Engineering, Inc. was engaged beginning 
in 2016 to conduct carbon emissions verification and to provide a 
reasonable level of assurance on our Statement of Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) Emissions. Verified emissions data back to 2005 are publicly 
available on The Climate Registry at www.cris4.org .
Note that Delta’s annual GRI reporting timeline and annual emissions 
verification and reporting timelines do not coincide. For this reason, 
annual verification of emissions trail GRI reporting by one year. As 
a result, annual emissions for the 2017 CRR reporting year will be 
verified after this CRR has been published. Due to internal timeline 
reporting differences, any discrepancies from past CRR reporting to 
final verification will be noted in the external verification statement 
and in relevant tables.
CONTACT INFORMATION 
Please send comments or questions about this CRR to  
Christine.Boucher@delta.com or in writing to:
Delta Air Lines, Inc.
Attn: Christine Boucher, Managing Director
Global Environment, Sustainability and Compliance
Department 885
1020 Delta Blvd.
Atlanta, GA 30354MATERIALITY
As part of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting guidelines, 
Delta periodically performs materiality assessments to identify 
which sustainability topics are most important to our stakeholders. 
Materiality in this context differs from the concept of materiality in a 
securities law perspective, but helps guide our sustainability strategy 
and reporting. In 2017, we refreshed our materiality assessment. Our 
last assessment was conducted in 2015. The exercise also prepared 
Delta to transition from the GRI-G4 reporting framework to the  
GRI Standards framework. 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS  
Delta’s materiality assessment process draws from GRI guidance 
to consider how our activities and impacts influence stakeholder 
expectations and interests. For this process, we used a third party 
to help us first identify a list of all potential topics material to Delta, 
prioritize these topics from most important to least important based 
on stakeholder input, validate these results through an internal 
materiality workshop and apply the final list of prioritized issues to 
Delta’s sustainability reporting strategy. In the process, we garnered 
input and feedback from more than 700 internal and external 
stakeholders through an online survey.
The result of our materiality assessment process identified 10 material 
issues most important to both Delta and our stakeholders. 
•  Customer Safety & Security
•  Customer Satisfaction
•  Customer Data Privacy
•  Occupational Health & Safety
•  Employee Satisfaction
•  Fleet Strategy
•  Environmental Compliance & Regulation
•  Ethics Management
•  Customer Nondiscrimination
•  Training & Development
We have assigned each of these material issues a set of key 
performance indicators (KPIs), for which we have set goals and 
continue to track progress. Performance data and year-over-year 
progress can be found in this report on pages 5 through 8. All KPIs 
use either generally accepted or industry-standard metric protocols 
for reporting. Delta is committed to achieving stated goals and 
continuing to make progress annually on our KPIs.
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
71Financial Performance  
We primarily report on our organization and our financial performance 
through our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on 
Form 10-Q and investor relations website http://ir.delta.com. In this 
report, financial performance data focuses on economic performance 
as it relates to environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. 
The organizational entities covered in this CRR are the same as those 
presented in our Annual Report.
Freedom of Association
Delta respects all employees’ legal rights, including the rights 
to free association and collective bargaining. This includes the 
right to decide whether to be represented by a union. Our U.S.-
based employees are covered by the Railway Labor Act (RLA), the 
federal law governing labor relations between air carriers and their 
employees. Under the RLA, employees have the right to decide 
whether they wish to be represented by a union. They also have the 
right to reject union representation. As of December 31, 2017, we had 
more than 80,000 full-time equivalent employees, approximately 
19 percent of whom were represented by unions. The following table 
shows our domestic airline employee groups that are represented by 
unions—numbers from the December 31, 2017 10K page 10.
•  Delta Pilots = 13,324
•  Delta Flight Dispatchers = 420
•  Endeavor Air Pilots = 1,805
•  Endeavor Air Flight Attendants = 1,160
•  Endeavor Air Dispatchers = 55
Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Ensuring that the right people, principles and guidelines are in place 
has helped us secure our current position as one of the world’s most 
admired airlines. We are proud of our history of good corporate 
governance. To learn more about our corporate governance, policies, 
processes and procedures, please visit our investor relations page at 
http://ir.delta.com. 
Online governance documents include:
•  Certificate of Incorporation
•  Bylaws
•  Director Independence Standards
•  Audit Committee Charter•  Corporate Governance Committee Charter
•  Finance Committee Charter
•  Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter
•  Safety and Security Committee Charter
•  Employee Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
•  Stock Ownership Guidelines
•  Corporate Governance Principles
In addition, we make available on our website all documents filed 
with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), 
including our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Proxy Statement for 
each annual meeting. These filings contain detailed information 
about our activities, including financial performance, business 
strategy and executive compensation.
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Delta’s stakeholders expect us to produce sustainable and 
responsible positive financial results while investing in healthy 
communities, maintaining a robust workforce and protecting natural 
environments. Collectively, these expectations drive our approach 
to ESG sustainability and responsibility. For this reason, ESG 
sustainability at Delta is defined as meeting the company’s financial 
goals of growth and profitability over time through innovative 
business practices that minimize the environmental impact of Delta 
operations and promote the health, welfare and productivity of the 
individuals and communities we employ and serve.
Our Executive Environmental Leadership Council (EELC) is made 
up of senior leaders who help establish and support environmental 
sustainability and corporate responsibility policy, strategy and 
action plans that address risks and opportunities annually.
Seeking continuous improvement, including self-evaluation and 
risk mitigation related to ESG, in 2017 the EELC met two times to 
further align and direct sustainability and climate change issues and 
initiatives that included:
•  Industry engagement on climate change policy at the 
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)
•  Performance against the International Air Transport 
Association’s (IATA) 1.5 percent fuel efficiency improvement goal
•  Climate change and biofuel strategy and action plan
•  Stakeholder engagement on sustainability
•  Environmental partnerships, including carbon offsets from 
The Nature Conservancy
•  Sustainability reporting and disclosures through the 
Corporate Responsibility Report, the CDP , the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index and corporate customer questionnairesAPPENDIX              
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
72EELC Leader Members Include:
•  Senior Vice President—Corporate Real Estate 
•  Managing Director—Global Environment, Sustainability  
and Compliance 
•  Senior Vice President—Fuel Management 
•  Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer 
•  Vice President—Brand Management 
•  Senior Vice President—Flight Operations 
•  Vice President—Investor Relations 
•  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
•  Senior Vice President—Safety, Security and Compliance 
•  Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer 
•  Senior Vice President—Supply Chain Management & Fleet 
•  Senior Vice President—Technical Operations 
•  Vice President—Sales Operations and Development 
•  Vice President—Operations Customer Center 
•  Senior Vice President and Chief Communications Officer 
•  Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 
In 2017, day-to-day environmental events were addressed by 
the affected operational division. The EELC serves as the primary 
governance body responsible for addressing ESG policy risks. In 2017, 
the EELC received zero reports of critical ESG concerns or issues. 
However, we remain aware of concerns related to the impact of 
carbon emissions and climate change from the aviation industry. In 
recognition of these concerns, we are actively engaged with ICAO 
efforts to establish an efficiency standard and a carbon-neutral 
growth initiative.
BOARD EDUCATION & COMMUNICATION
The Board recognizes the importance of continuing education and 
encourages members to take advantage of education opportunities 
at Delta’s expense. Additionally, the Board remains in touch with 
stakeholder concerns through several communication processes.
The Board and the EELC are also regularly briefed on trends related to 
material issues and on stakeholder ESG concerns. Relating directly to 
ESG, the Board enhances its knowledge by:
•  Reviewing ESG industry trends related to strategy, 
performance, policies and goals
•  Reviewing other Delta governance body reportsPOLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS & LOBBYING TRANSPARENCY
In 2017, DeltaPAC contributed a total of $653,595 to various 
candidates for federal election campaigns. Corporate political 
contributions totaled $55,000 in Georgia, $25,000 in Michigan, 
$20,000 in Florida, $1,000 in Utah and $8,500 in Washington.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The global and highly competitive nature of our industry presents 
many risks. Financial and operational risks include the following 
factors, among others:
•  Terrorist attacks, geopolitical conflict or security events 
may adversely affect our business, financial condition and 
operating results
•  High fuel costs or cost increases, the effect of rebalancing the 
fuel hedging program and mark-to-market adjustments, as well 
as significant extended disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel 
could also materially negatively affect our business
•  Significant investments in airlines in other parts of the world 
and our commercial relationships with those carriers may not 
produce returns or results we expect
•  We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity from a serious 
aircraft accident
•  Breaches or lapses in the security of our technology systems 
and the data we store could compromise others’ information 
and expose us to liability and could have a material adverse 
effect on our business
•  Employee strikes and other labor-related interruptions and 
disruptions of service at one of our hub, gateway or key 
airports or by our third-party regional carriers could have a 
material adverse effect on our operations
•  Disruptions of our information technology infrastructure could 
have a material adverse effect on our business
•  Failure of our technology to perform effectively could have an 
adverse effect on our business
•  Failure to comply with agreements governing our debt, 
including financial and other covenants, could result in events 
of default
•  Employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may 
adversely affect our operations
•  Our results can fluctuate because of weather, natural disasters 
and seasonalityAPPENDIX              
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
73•  An extended disruption in services provided by third parties, 
including regional carriers, could have a material adverse 
effect on our operating results
•  The failure of insurance to cover a significant liability related to 
our refinery could have a material adverse effect on our results
•  The failure to comply with environmental regulations by our 
refinery or the enactment of additional regulations could 
have a negative impact on our results
•  If we lose senior management personnel and other key employees 
and they are not replaced by individuals with comparable skills, 
our operating results could be adversely affected
•  Our reputation and brand could be damaged if we are exposed to 
significant adverse publicity through social media
•  The global airline industry is highly competitive, and if 
we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our 
business, financial condition and operating results will be 
materially adversely affected
•  The airline industry is subject to extensive government 
regulation, and compliance with existing and new regulations 
may increase our operating costs
•  Extended interruptions in service at major airports could have 
a material adverse effect on our operations
•  The rapid spread of a contagious illness could have a material 
adverse effect on our business and results of operations
•  Prolonged periods of stagnant or weak economic conditions 
could have a material adverse effect on our business and 
financial results
•  Economic conditions and regulatory changes leading up  
to and following the United Kingdom’s exit from the  
European Union could have a material adverse effect on  
our business and results of operations
Health Benefits
In addition to comprehensive healthcare coverage, Delta offers 
dental, vision and flexible spending account benefits to eligible 
employees. To promote disease prevention, employees enrolled in 
a Delta Account-Based Healthcare Plan are covered at 100 percent 
for preventive care services based on the recommendations of 
the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF). Beyond USPSTF 
recommendations, employees covered by Delta’s medical plans 
receive other preventive services such as travel immunizations 
and assistance with healthcare questions and needs through the 
Delta Health Direct program. In addition, employees and their eligible family members have access to Delta’s Employee Assistance 
Program, which offers confidential counseling, assessment and 
referral service support.
As of January 2017, U.S.-based expectant mothers in all ground  
and flight attendant positions, including Ready Reserve and  
Flex @ Home, receive a minimum six weeks at 100 percent pay 
for maternity leave. In addition, all mothers and fathers may take 
a 30-day unpaid bonding leave following the birth, adoption, 
guardianship or fostering of a child once paid maternity leave (if 
applicable) and/or other Family Medical Leave Act benefits have 
been exhausted.
Through Delta Health Rewards, a voluntary, incentive-based 
wellness program, we help U.S. employees and their spouses or 
same-sex domestic partners reach health goals. Participants earn 
Rewards dollars by completing specific health actions such as 
undergoing an annual physical exam, completing an online health 
assessment and refraining from the use of tobacco products. 
Rewards dollars are put into employee health reimbursement 
accounts (HRAs) or Optum Bank health savings accounts (HSAs) 
each year and can be used to pay for eligible medical expenses.
TRAVEL AND WORK HEAL TH  
To continually ensure the health of all Delta employees, numerous 
employee medical surveillance programs, screenings and safety trainings 
were conducted at Delta airport stations. Programs included: 
•  Implementing WHO International Health Regulation 
pertaining to Lifetime Yellow Fever vaccination status while 
maintaining optional 10-year revaccination benefit at the 
employee’s option.
•  Maintaining crew and other employee business traveler 
awareness around Zika risk and prevention strategies. 
Travelers could avoid destinations with active Zika 
transmission secondary to pregnancy considerations.
•  Leading the placement of a CPR automated training kiosk at 
Gate A11 of Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport. 
Its aim is to engage and educate passengers on CPR techniques 
in less than 15 minutes.APPENDIX              
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
74Our employees travel to all parts of the world, which can occasionally 
expose them to disease outbreaks and other health risks. To address 
these challenges, Delta provides its employees on business travel 
with travel health consultation and company-paid vaccine coverage, 
antimalaria medication and insect repellent. 
Delta’s medical plans also provide travel vaccine coverage for global 
travel by employees and covered family members. Separate Delta 
internal programs target prevention of illness among employees who 
travel internationally on company business, especially to developing 
countries with risks of malaria, yellow fever, dengue, chikungunya, Zika, 
food/waterborne illness and other diseases that may occur as outbreaks. 
Employee education focuses on promoting awareness about the use 
of personal protection measures, early symptom recognition, a 24/7 
malaria hotline and prompt medical treatment. 
Delta also provides top-tier global medical assistance to help employees 
who become ill or injured while on company business internationally. 
Telephone consultations, available 24/7, can result in a hotel physician 
visit, a doctor’s office appointment or referral to an emergency room. 
Case management continues until the ill employee can travel back 
home. In rare circumstances, we can dispatch an air ambulance staffed 
with a highly skilled transport team of healthcare professionals.
Subsidiaries
Monroe Energy, a wholly owned subsidiary of Delta Air Lines, 
operates an oil refinery outside of Philadelphia. The refinery has 
more than 450 employees and fulfills approximately 70 percent of 
Delta’s domestic jet fuel needs through both direct production and 
various exchange agreements. 
Monroe Energy is a limited-liability company that operates 
independently of Delta with its own operational and environmental 
policies and its own management for oversight of its policies. It is 
not subject to Delta’s environmental policy, procedures or reporting 
requirements. As such, details of Monroe Energy's environmental 
performance, governance and regulatory compliance, including 
carbon emissions, are not included in this report. Structure
PARENT COMPANY: DEL TA AIR LINES, INC.  
  Subsidiaries:
1. Aero Assurance Ltd.
2. Comair Holdings, LLC
 Subsidiaries:
  1. Comair Services, Inc.
  Subsidiaries:
  1. Delta Private Jets, Inc.
3. DAL Global Services, LLC
4. Delta Air Lines Dublin Limited
5. Delta Air Lines, Inc. and Pan American World Airways 
 UNTERSTUTZUNGSKASSE GMBH
6. Delta Air Lines Private Limited
7. Delta Flight Products, LLC
8. Delta Material Services, LLC
9. Delta Receivables, LLC
10. Delta Sky Club, Inc.
11. Endeavor Air, Inc.
12. Epsilon Trading, LLC
13. ML T Vacations, LLC
 Subsidiaries:
 1. Delta Gift Cards, Inc.
14. Monroe Energy, LLC
 Subsidiaries:
 1. MIPC, LLC
15. Montana Enterprises, Inc.
16. New Sky, Ltd.
17. Northwest Airlines, LLC
18. NW Red Baron LLC
19. TATL Services B.V. (100% owned by Delta Air Lines, Inc.)
20.  DL International Enterprises, LLC (100% owned by Delta Air 
Lines, Inc.)
21.  DL Investment Partners, L.P . (Delta Air Lines, Inc. is a 99.9% 
General Partner; DL International Enterprises, LLC is a 0.1% 
Limited Partner) 
22.  DAL Foreign Holdings C.V. (Delta Air Lines, Inc. is a 99.8% 
General Partner; DL Investment Partners, L.P . is a 0.1%  
General Partner; DL International Enterprises, LLC is a 0.1% 
Limited Partner)
23.  DAL Europe C.V. (DAL Foreign Holdings C.V. is a 89.9% General 
Partner; DL Investment Partners, L.P . is a 10% General Partner;  
DL International Enterprises, LLC is a 0.1% Limited Partner)
24. DAL Leasing Limited (DAL Europe C.V. is the sole Member)
25. Delta TATL UK Limited (DAL Europe C.V. is the sole Member)APPENDIX              
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
75Supply Chain
Delta is firmly committed to social, environmental and economic 
responsibility in all our operations. Delta’s Supply Chain Management 
(SCM) professionals operate at a level befitting a global airline 
leader, following rigorous internal material standards for sourcing, 
procurement and selection of our suppliers and business partners. 
Delta’s SCM organization has multiple units that partner with 
business divisions to formulate business and sourcing strategies 
to deliver sustainable results to the company. This ensures a 
continuous supply of cost-competitive, quality goods and services 
that meet responsibility requirements.
We understand that our SCM is a component of providing long-term 
sustainable support to our customers. To do this, we work hand-in-  
hand with vendors and suppliers to manage the services and 
products they provide. 
There are many links in our supply chain beyond procurement.  
These include logistics, distribution, materials management  
and transportation. 
We partner with our suppliers and business units to manage 
services using the following values: 
•  Integrity and ethical behavior 
•  Fact-based decision-making 
•  Challenging the status quo 
•  Enhancing shareholder value 
•  Diversity 
•  Teamwork 
•  Continuous improvement 
•  Respect for people and the value they bring 
•  Innovation 
•  Excellence in performanceSUPPLIER ESG ASSESSMENT
Our strategic sourcing process defines how we work with suppliers 
to ensure that they are operating up to our standards. We actively 
engage with NGOs, industry peers and other stakeholders to develop 
our strategic sourcing process to best address ESG issues within our 
supply chain. This includes a due-diligence policy to screen all key 
suppliers for potential environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
risk factors. Following this process helps eliminate any potential 
negative impacts of our global supply chain—which in turn helps 
Delta improve. We hold ourselves to the same high standards as 
our suppliers, adhering to operational ESG requirements and using 
mechanisms for monitoring, reporting and correcting ESG issues.
As part of our Green Procurement Policy, we seek to understand and 
mitigate supplier risk when making sourcing decisions. A key part of 
this policy includes assessing the following ESG risk factors: 
Environmental
•  Energy Use/Efficiency
•  Environmental Breaches
•  Waste Reduction
•  Environmental Emissions
•  Deployment of Renewables
•  Carbon Footprint
•  Hazardous Waste
Social
•  Employee Health & Safety
•  Lost Injury Days
•  Community Investment
•  Diversity Issues
•  Employee Labor Practices
•  Absence Rate/Turnover
•  Customer Perception 
Corporate Governance
•  Reporting & Transparency
•  Audit Processes
•  Notices of Violation
•  Training & Development
•  Performance Management
•  Shareholder Interests
•  Anticorruption Practices APPENDIX              
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
76The two most important documents we use to verify that our 
suppliers adhere to sustainable business practices are our Supplier 
Code of Conduct and Supplier Sustainability Guidelines. The 
Supplier Code of Conduct is distributed to all vendors, who are 
required to read and agree to comply with all requirements. 
To further ensure continuous improvement, we offer a Supplier 
Performance Management program. The program includes the use 
of monthly performance scorecards, periodic business reviews and 
discussions on developing and maintaining sustainable business 
processes. In 2017, 100 percent of all supplier assessments utilized 
our Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Sustainability Guidelines, 
with 66 key suppliers participating in Delta’s Supplier Performance 
Management program that includes the use of monthly performance 
scorecards, periodic business reviews and discussions on developing 
and maintaining sustainable business processes. Taking ESG factors 
into account when we select suppliers adds shareholder value by 
reducing risks. It also addresses customer desires to do business with  
a company that values ethical business practices. 
Supplier Diversity 
Delta recognizes the critical role suppliers play in our global value 
chain. As a global service provider, “local” to us means maximizing 
our responsible returns to stakeholders through diversity and by 
requiring significant expenditures in the communities we serve. 
Expenditures include contracted labor, facility rents and landing fees 
that support local airport station operations across the Delta system. 
Commitment to diversity in our supply chain means ensuring that our 
supplier base reflects the diversity of our customers. To do this, we set 
annual spend targets with minority- and women-owned businesses, 
and we measure progress toward achieving these targets.
Our annual spend with minority- and women-owned businesses 
reached $773 million in 2017, which is up 13 percent from 2016. We’ve 
achieved this high level by identifying viable, diverse companies—then 
helping them understand and develop the capabilities required to 
compete successfully for Delta business. We encourage our Tier I 
suppliers to build similar relationships with diverse businesses. Stakeholder Engagement
Continuous engagement and regular dialogue with our stakeholders 
through both formal and informal processes allows us to innovate and 
proactively address emerging needs and risks. In addition to ongoing 
internal stakeholder engagement efforts and commitments, we 
regularly engage with external stakeholders on trending and emerging 
issues that matter to their organizations. To do this we periodically 
receive and respond to inquiries and requests for information related 
to the sustainability practices of our company. Our long-standing 
commitment to engagement allows us the opportunity to continue to 
refine corporate governance and corporate strategy over the long term. 
The following table summarizes our 2017 stakeholder engagement 
activities on sustainability-related issues:
Delta understands that increased transparency through  
corporate sustainability reporting helps us effectively engage  
with stakeholders, resulting in continuous improvement to our 
business over the long term. Here is a list of external charters  
and associations Delta is actively engaged with:
•  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
•  CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project)
•  The Climate Registry
•  Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)
•  FTSE4Good 
•  Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index
•  International Air Transport Association (IATA)APPENDIX              
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
77Stakeholder Engagement At-A-Glance
Stakeholder Group Primary Communication Channels/Frequency Key Issues Example of 2017 Action(s)
Investors •  Annual shareholder meetings
•  Annual report, quarterly earnings and proxy statement
•  External recognition, ratings and rankings
•  Investor Day•  Return on investment
•  Transparent reporting practices and disclosures•  Held Investor Day in 
Atlanta
•  Initiated contact with  
90 percent of top  
20 investors
•  Attended more than  
10 industry conferences 
with management
Customers •  19 different customer group satisfaction surveys
•  Social media•  Reliable and on-time flights
•  Expansive global network
•  In-flight comfort
•  Efficient cargo delivery •  Ranked first among  
North American airlines in 
on-time performance
•  Improved our overall  
net promoter score by  
two points
•  Provided diversity training 
to 23,000 flight attendants
•  Revised Service Animal 
policy
•  Continued to transform 
customer experience 
through technology 
enhancements at home, at 
the airport and in flight
Employees •  Employee Satisfaction Survey
•  Employee Involvement Group (EIG)
•  TechOps EIG
•  Reservations Liaison for Information Networking and 
Communication (ResLINC)
•  Airport Customer Service and Cargo Frontline Involvement 
Team (FIT)
•  Velvet-360 Tour
•  Town Hall Program
•  Delta Board Council•  Competitive pay and benefits
•  Workplace safety
•  Clear communication
•  Work/life balance
•  Career and growth opportunities
•  Support of a diverse workforce•  Achieved an 88 percent 
employee satisfaction 
survey score
•  Shared $1.1 billion in profits 
with employees
•  Invested $50 million 
to modernize human 
resources, including career 
development, technology
•  Signed the CEO Action for 
Diversity & Inclusion
Suppliers •  Supplier ESG Assessment
•  Supplier Diversity (MBE, WBE and SBE) engagement•  Leadership in testing and scaling alternative fuels 
and vehicle technologies
•  Capacity-building support for local and  
diverse suppliers•  Utilized our Supplier 
Performance Management 
Program with 66 key 
suppliers to facilitate 
the use of monthly 
performance scorecards, 
periodic business 
reviews and discussions 
of sustainable business 
procedures
•  Increased spend with 
minority- and women-
owned businesses by  
13 percent to reach  
$773 millionAPPENDIX              
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
78Stakeholder Engagement At-A-Glance
Stakeholder Group Primary Communication Channels/Frequency Key Issues Example of 2017 Action(s)
Governments & 
Nongovernmental 
Organizations•  Collaborative partnerships with governments and NGOs 
around the world
•  Industry associations
•  External recognition, ratings and rankings•  Facilitation of cross-border travel
•  Expansion of security initiatives
•  Socially and environmentally friendly  
business practices 
•  Support for infrastructure investment  
and maintenance
•  Creation of competitive marketplaces
•  Private-sector expertise and resources
•  Collaboration on innovative solutions
•  Socially and environmentally friendly  
business practices
•  Transparent reporting practices•  Continued to support 
efforts to develop 
alternative fuels and 
modernize the U.S. air 
traffic control system
•  Implemented measures to 
save 1.87 million gallons of 
fuel during 2017
•  Upheld our commitment to 
carbon-neutral growth for 
the fifth consecutive year
•  Purchased more than  
$2.5 million worth of 
carbon offsets
•  Realized a year-over-year 
reduction in the amount 
of nonhazardous waste 
volume generated in our 
operations
Communities • The  Delta Air Lines Foundation
•  Delta Air Lines corporate contributions
•  Contributions to nonprofit organizations
•  Social media•  Employee volunteerism and local support
•  Flight and travel safety programs•  Gave 1 percent of 
previous year’s income, 
or $48.6 million, back to 
communities
•  Contributed $4.3 million to 
Red Cross organizations in 
support of global disaster 
relief
•  Supported a wide range of 
causes and organizations 
through our three pillars 
of focus: Education, Health 
and Wellness and Armed 
Service Members and 
VeteransAPPENDIX              
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
79This verification statement documents that Ruby Canyon En gineering, Inc. has conducted verification activities in 
conformance with ISO 14064-3 and The Climate Registry’s (TCR)  General Verification Protocol for the emissions 
report described below.  
Member Name : Delta Air Lines
Emissions Year: January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016
 Complete Reporting Classification:
Reporting Boundary:  Worldwide (including North America)  
Consolidation Methodology:
 Control Only:  Operational
Verification Opinion:  Conformance 
Ruby Canyon Engineering, Inc. has conducted a full ve rification of Delta Air Line s' emission report to a 
reasonable level of assurance. Based on Ruby Canyon Engineering, Inc.'s verification activities and findings,  
Delta Air Lines' emissions report is   prepared in all material respects in accordance with the reporting criteria 
identified below.  
GHG reporting criteria against which verification was conducted: 
The Climate Registry’s General Reporting Protocol Version 2.1, dated January 2016 
The Climate Registry’s GRP Updates and Clarifications document dated March 2018 
GHG verification protocols used to conduct the verification: 
The Climate Registry’s General Verification Protocol Version 2.1 ,dated June 2014   
The Climate Registry’s GVP  Updates and Clarifications document dated March 2016   APPENDIX  Verification Statement
DELTA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 80Total Entity-Wide Emissions Verified (Control Criteria): 
Total Scope 1 Emissions: 35,436,857.03 metric tons CO 2e, consisting of metric tons of each GHG as follows: 
35,086,304.37 CO 2  6.72 CH 4  1,114.10 N 2O  5,017.83 HFCs (CO 2e)  21.59 PFCs (CO 2e)  0 NF 3  0 SF 6
Biogenic Direct CO 2Emissions (stationary and mobile combustion only): 0 metric tons CO 2
Total Location-based Scope 2 Emiss ions: 318,628.03 metric tons CO 2e, consisting of metric tons of each 
GHG as follows: 
316,639.98 CO 2  27.66 CH 4  4.54 N 2O
Biogenic Indirect Location-based CO 2Emissions: 0 metric tons CO 2
Total Market-based Scope 2 Emissions: 318,628.03 metric tons CO 2e, consisting of metric tons of each GHG 
as follows: 
316,639.98 CO 2  27.66 CH 4  4.54 N 2O
Biogenic Indirect Market-based CO 2 Emissions: 0 metric tons CO 2APPENDIX              Verification Statement
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
80APPENDIX              
Total Entity-Wide Emissions Verified (Equity Share Criteria, if applicable): 
Total Scope 1 Emissions:  metric tons CO 2e, consisting of metric tons of each GHG as follows: 
 CO 2        CH 4   N 2O        HFCs (CO 2e)   PFCs (CO 2e)   NF 3   SF 6
Biogenic Direct CO 2Emissions (stationary and mobile combustion only):  metric tons CO 2
 metric tons CO 2e, consisting of metric tons of each GHG as Total Location-based Scope 2 Emissions: 
follows:
 CO 2  CH 4  N 2O
Biogenic Indirect Location-based CO 2Emissions:     metric tons CO 2
 metric tons CO 2e, consisting of metric tons of each GHG as Total Market-based Scope 2 Emissions: 
follows:
    CO 2        CH 4        N 2O
Biogenic Indirect Market-based CO 2 Emissions:  metric tons CO 2
Comment: Please note that Delta applied 2,361,921 retired offs ets to Scope 1 emissions total resulting in a net 
total of 33,074,936.03 tCO2e for Scope 1 emissions. APPENDIX  
DELTA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 81Attestation: 
Jessica Stavole-Carter, Lead Verifier Date Digital Signature Acknowledgement*
Date Digital Signature Samantha Phillips, Independent Peer Reviewer
Acknowledgement*
Authorization:
I Stephanie Zhu accept the findings in this Verification St atement and authorize the submission of this verification 
statement to The Climate Registry on behalf of Delta Air Lines.
Member Representative Signature Date Digital Signature Acknowledgement*
*For digital signature: By checking the “Digital Signature Acknowledgement” box, I agree that this verification s tatement shall be deemed to be
“in writing” and to have been “signed” for all purposes and that any electronic record will be deemed to be in “writing.” I will not contest the
legally binding nature, validity, or enforceability of this veri fication statement and any corresponding documents based on the  fact that they
were entered and executed electronically, and expressly waive any and all rights I may have to assert any such claim.
g
r Repre seeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeentntntntnttntntnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnative Signat06/05/2018
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
81GRI INDEX
Disclosure 
Number Disclosure Title 2017 Response
GRI 102: General Disclosures
Organizational Profile 
102-1 Name of the organization Corporate Profile
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Corporate Profile
102-3 Location of headquarters Corporate Profile
102-4 Location of operations Corporate Profile
102-5 Ownership and legal form Delta Air Lines, Inc. is a publicly held corporation incorporated in the state of 
Delaware. Our shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
102-6 Markets served Corporate Profile
102-7 Scale of the organization Corporate Profile
102-8 Information on employees and other workers A Closer Look at Delta People
102-9 Supply chain Appendix — Supply Chain
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain There have been no significant changes during the reporting period.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Delta has not formally adopted use of the precautionary principle. For Delta, adoption of the 
principle would apply primarily to potential harm related to use of fossil fuels and carbon 
emissions. While the principle is not formally used we are aware of risks; we meet all SEC and 
compliance reporting standards; we have established a Climate Change Policy; and we are actively 
engaged with the airline industry regarding mitigation efforts.
102-12 External initiatives Appendix — Stakeholder Engagement 
102-13 Membership of associations Appendix — Stakeholder Engagement 
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker A Message From Ed
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Delta 2018 10-K pages 12-19  
Environmental Stewardship —  Climate Change  
Appendix — Risk Management
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Talent & Culture — Living the Delta Difference
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Talent & Culture — Living the Delta Difference
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Principles
102-19 Delegating authority Appendix — Governance
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental,  
and social topics Appendix — Governance
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental,  
and social topics Appendix — Governance  
Delta 2018 Proxy, page 4
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Board of Directors
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Delta 2018 Proxy, page 11
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Principles
102-25 Conflicts of interest Delta Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Appendix — Governance
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Appendix — Governance
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance The Board of Directors and each of its committees conducts an annual self-evaluation. This 
evaluation includes a review of performance with respect to governance of economic, financial, 
operational, environmental and social topics. The specific input process varies from year to year in 
order to promote critical and productive self-evaluation. After self evaluation, the Board and each 
committee review the results and appropriate actions are taken to address any areas of concern.
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Appendix — Governance  
Delta 2018 Proxy, page 14
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Appendix — Governance  
Delta 2018 Proxy, page 14
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Appendix — Governance  
Delta 2018 Proxy, page 14
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Appendix — GovernanceGRI INDEX
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
82Disclosure 
Number Disclosure Title 2017 Response
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Stockholders and other interested parties may communicate with Delta’s non-management 
directors via e-mail at nonmgmt.directors@delta.com. Communications with non-management 
directors may also be mailed to:
c/o Law Department, 981  
Attn: Chief Legal Officer  
1030 Delta Boulevard  
Atlanta, GA 30354
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Appendix — Governance
102-35 Remuneration policies Delta 2018 Proxy, pages 3, 23-50
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Talent & Culture — Rewarding Employees for Great Work
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Delta 2018 Proxy, page 27
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Delta 2018 Proxy, page 50
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Delta 2018 Proxy, page 50
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Appendix — Stakeholder Engagement 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Delta 2018 10-K page 10
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Appendix — Stakeholder Engagement 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Appendix — Stakeholder Engagement 
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Appendix — Stakeholder Engagement 
Reporting Practices
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Delta 2018 10-K page 55
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Appendix — About This Report
102-47 List of material topics Appendix — About This Report
102-48 Restatements of information There have been no restatements in this reporting period.
102-49 Changes in reporting Appendix — About This Report
102-50 Reporting period Appendix — About This Report
102-51 Date of most recent report Appendix — About This Report
102-52 Reporting cycle Appendix — About This Report
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Appendix — About This Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Appendix — About This Report
102-55 GRI content index Appendix — About This Report
102-56 External assurance Appendix — About This Report
Topic-Specific Standards
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct  
Talent & Culture —  Living the Delta Difference
103-2 The management approach and its components Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct  
Talent & Culture — Living the Delta Difference
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Enterprisewide assessment for corruption-related risks.
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 
proceduresTalent & Culture — Living the Delta Difference
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There were no incidents of corruption during 2017.
GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct  
Talent & Culture — Living the Delta Difference
103-2 The management approach and its components Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct  
Talent & Culture — Living the Delta Difference
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct  
Talent & Culture — Living the Delta Difference
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and  
monopoly practicesDelta 2018 10-K pages 22, 55GRI INDEX
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
83Disclosure 
Number Disclosure Title 2017 Response
GRI 302: Energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
302-3 Energy intensity Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
GRI 305: Emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environmental Stewardship — Climate Change
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance — Protecting Air Quality
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant  
air emissionsEnvironmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance — Protecting Air Quality
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance — Thinking Differently About Waste
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance — Thinking Differently About Waste
306-3 Significant spills Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance — Making Progress on Spills
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance — Thinking Differently About Waste
306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Delta does not significantly discharge into water bodies.
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental Stewardship — Environmental Compliance
GRI 401: Employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Safety — Reducing Injury at Work  
Talent & Culture  
Appendix — Health Benefits
103-2 The management approach and its components Safety — Reducing Injury at Work  
Talent & Culture  
Appendix — Health Benefits
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safety — Reducing Injury at Work  
Talent & Culture  
Appendix — Health Benefits
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Talent & Culture — A Closer Look at Delta People
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employeesAppendix — Health Benefits
401-3 Parental leave Delta does not track this information.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and SafetyGRI INDEX
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
84Disclosure 
Number Disclosure Title 2017 Response
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Safety
103-2 The management approach and its components Safety
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safety
403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health  
and safety committeesSafety — Reducing Injury at Work
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days,  
and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalitiesSafety — Reducing Injury at Work
403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 
occupationDelta is unaware of any high risk for diseases related to our employees’ occupation.
403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Safety — Reducing Injury at Work
GRI 404: Training and Education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Talent & Culture — Top Talent for a Top Airline 
103-2 The management approach and its components Talent & Culture — Top Talent for a Top Airline 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Talent & Culture — Top Talent for a Top Airline 
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Talent & Culture — Top Talent for a Top Airline 
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  
assistance programsTalent & Culture — Top Talent for a Top Airline 
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and  
career development reviewsTalent & Culture — Top Talent for a Top Airline 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Talent & Culture — A Culture of Diversity, Inclusion & Equality
103-2 The management approach and its components Talent & Culture — A Culture of Diversity, Inclusion & Equality
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Talent & Culture — A Culture of Diversity, Inclusion & Equality
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Talent & Culture — A Closer Look at Delta People  
Delta 2018 Proxy, page 2
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Talent & Culture — A Culture of Diversity, Inclusion & Equality
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Safety  
Customer Satisfaction
103-2 The management approach and its components Safety  
Customer Satisfaction
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safety  
Customer Satisfaction
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 
categoriesSafety
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts  
of products and servicesThere were no incidents reported in 2017.
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Customer Satisfaction — Protecting Our Digital Assets  
Delta Air Lines, Inc. Privacy Policy
103-2 The management approach and its components Customer Satisfaction — Protecting Our Digital Assets  
Delta Air Lines, Inc. Privacy Policy
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Customer Satisfaction — Protecting Our Digital Assets  
Delta Air Lines, Inc. Privacy Policy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy  
and losses of customer dataConfidentiality constraints maintain that Delta does not report this information.
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Talent & Culture — Living the Delta Difference
103-2 The management approach and its components Talent & Culture — Living the Delta Difference
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Talent & Culture — Living the Delta Difference
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and  
economic areaDelta 2018 10-K page 22GRI INDEX
DEL TA AIR LINES, INC. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
85