CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT2019
POSITIVE CHANGE
POWERED BY 
CONNECTION.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
CEO MESSAGE  3 
2019 AT A GLANCE  
Delta by the Numbers  4 
Goals and Progress  5
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals   8
SAFETY  10  
Safety Above All 11 
Safety Leadership & Culture 12
Safety On The Ground 13
Safety In The Skies 14
Safety For Our Customers 15
Safety Across Our Network 15
Security 16  
KEEP CLIMBING...  17
...FOR OUR PLANET  18
Environmental Compliance      19
Managing & Mitigating Spills  21
Protecting Air Quality  22
Aircraft Drinking Water  23
Waste Management  24 
     Hazardous Waste  24 
     Nonhazardous Waste   25
Environmental  Sustainability  27 
Sustainability Governance & Management Strategy 28
Climate Risk  29
Climate Action  31
Metrics: Transparency & Reporting 37 
...FOR OUR PEOPLE 42
The Delta Difference  43
Diversity, Inclusion & Equity  45
Putting Our People First  48
Employee Benefits 50
Future Employees 54
Partners with Shared Values 55
Supplier Diversity  56
 ...FOR OUR CUSTOMERS 57
Customer Satisfaction  58
On-Time Performance  58
NPS Measurement  59
Transforming Travel Through Technology 60
Business Disruptions   62
Serving Customers With Disabilities  64
Customer Data Protection 65
Community Engagement  67
Education  69
Health & Wellness   71
Military and Veterans  73 
 
APPENDIX  74
GRI Index  81 
SASB Index  86
TCFD Index 87 CONTENTS TABLE OF 
22019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.3
A MESSAGE 
FROM  
ED BASTIAN
 
In 2019, Delta demonstrated the power of our people and brand as we continued 
to be a force for positive change across the world. In 2020, we are facing the worst 
financial crisis in our 95-year history amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, the 
global racial crisis is bridging the gap between knowing what’s right and doing what’s 
right, creating an international dialogue around what it means to be anti-racist. All of 
these moments have demanded action and we have made swift decisions that put 
our people and customers first. This is possible because we are a company deeply 
grounded in our values with a clear understanding of our commitments.  
These commitments include:  
SAFETY ABOVE ALL 
The safety of our customers and employees is, and will always be, a core value at 
Delta. We seek to continually enhance safety on the ground, in the sky and throughout 
the operation to protect our people, customers, and network. When the coronavirus 
struck, we rapidly adapted our operations with key changes to ensure safety, including 
introducing a new standard of cleanliness and making space for safer travel.    
OUR PEOPLE 
Delta’s foundation is built on a culture of caring for each other and our customers. We 
celebrate success and tackle challenges together, and I am thankful to work with the 
best team in the industry. Many of our employees are on the front lines in the fight 
against the virus, working to keep our nation’s airways open for essential travel. Our 
employees are helping protect our future with more than 41,000 having selflessly 
chosen to take voluntary unpaid leave and more than 17,000 opting to retire or leave 
the company. Our people continue to make the difference and we are supporting them 
during this pandemic. We have provided employee testing for COVID-19, both the 
active virus and antibodies. For those employees who are high-risk for this disease or 
have become infected, we provided a paid protection plan to help financially  
support them.
We also believe that a better connected world requires us to have a work force that 
reflects that world. In light of the national dialogue around racial inequality, we 
reaffirmed our commitment to be an ally in the fight against social injustice through 
a number of actions including: lobbying for the passage of Georgia’s Hate Crime Bill, 
hosting a town hall with Equal Justice Initiative founder Bryan Stevenson and joining 
businesses in Minnesota calling on state lawmakers to pass legislation implementing 
policing reforms to prevent unacceptable police behavior and ensure that perpetrators 
of racist actions are held accountable. We also reinforced our Zero T olerance Policy 
with our employees that states we will not tolerate racist, bigoted or hateful acts or 
statements in our workspaces or directed at our people. This includes on social media 
by Delta people, which hurts our culture and our people. We’ve taken swift action 
this summer on top of our long-term efforts to seek diversity, promote inclusion and 
create equity for our workforce and our world. OUR CUSTOMERS 
Protecting our customers’ well-being is the driver behind all that we do regarding the 
Delta CareStandardSM efforts. In response to COVID-19, we have increased cleanliness 
efforts and are using electrostatic sprayers to sanitize every aircraft before each 
departure, complementing extensive measures already in place to clean high-touch 
areas before every flight. As of the publishing of this document we have created 
more space for safer travel across our operation, blocked middle seats, implemented 
back-to-front boarding and required all customers and employees to wear masks to 
reduce the risk of transmission. Nothing is more important than the health and safety 
of our employees and customers.
Our customers have always been at the center of every business decision we make, 
including giving 1% of previous year’s profits to the communities where we live, work 
and serve. As a build to this, in 2019 we were proud to launch The Great Delta  
Give-Back, which offered employees a paid day to volunteer at charitable 
organizations that were dearest to them and reached more than 1,800 communities 
across the globe. It's actions like this that have landed us, for three years in a row, on 
Points of Light's Civic 50 list, which recognizes community-minded companies across 
the nation.  
OUR PLANET 
On February 14, 2020, we announced our commitment to become carbon neutral 
over the next 10 years. Less than four weeks later, the world we all knew had 
changed. Despite this, Delta remains committed to sustainability, adjusting our 
playbook to account for the current crisis and how we bring back service responsibly. 
This includes accelerating our fleet modernization program by permanently 
retiring many of our less-efficient aircraft, exploring sustainable aviation fuels, and 
supporting the development of future aircraft-propulsion technology.  
Our commitment to connecting the world and making a positive impact will not 
falter. We know Delta will successfully navigate through this crisis and remain the 
airline of choice when our customers are ready to fly again, and we look forward to 
that day.  
While most of the above has been a part of 2020, 2019 was an incredible year for 
Delta. The pages that follow will showcase this and we’re very proud of the work 
we did then, the work we’re doing now and the work we will do. We look forward to 
our future as a more nimble airline, and whether you are a customer, an investor, an 
employee or a community partner, I thank you for being part of our journey as we 
keep climbing.
ED BASTIAN  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 DELTA
BY THE
NUMBERS 91,000
EMPLOYEES200M
CUSTOMERS
50
COUNTRIES
300
DESTINATIONS15,000*
DAILY DEPARTURES1,000+
AIRCRAFT6
CONTINENTS
KEY HUBS & MARKETS HEADQUARTERS
Atlanta, GA
JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS
Air France-KLM
Alitalia
Virgin Atlantic
Virgin Australia
Aeromexico**
Korean AirAtlanta
Boston
Detroit
Los Angeles
Mexico City
Minneapolis/St. Paul
New York–John F. Kennedy
New York–LaGuardiaSalt Lake City
Seattle
Amsterdam
London–Heathrow
Paris–Charles de Gaulle
Seoul-Incheon
Tokyo–Narita
delta.com
Delta News Hub: news.delta.com
Facebook.com/deltaAdditional information is available at: Twitter.com/delta
Instagram.com/delta*Including Worldwide Alliance Partners
**Joint Cooperation Agreement
2019
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC. 42019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.5
46.2
39.7
40.0
40.2
41.0
42.0
CLIMATE CHANGE
RESULTS: Achieved for 2019  
In 2019, fuel efficiency improved  
1.83%, compared to 2018; our  
Revenue Ton-Miles (RTM) grew  
by 4.43% while total fuel use  
increased only 2.52%.
RESULTS: Not Achieved
Since 2013 we have voluntarily purchased 
and retired more than 14 million offsets, 
well ahead of the IATA goal of capping 
international emissions starting in 2021. 
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and 
it’s financial impact, we were only able 
to purchase 40% of the offsets needed 
to achieve Delta’s 2019 carbon-neutral 
growth goal. However, our goal to cap 
emissions at  2012 levels will be achieved. 
With our reduced flying schedule in 2020 
and the 40% of offsets we purchased in 
2019, our average for 2019 and 2020 will 
keep us at our goal of capping emissions 
at 2012 levels. We also remain committed 
to investing $1 billion over the next 10 
years to become the first carbon neutral 
airline globally and will continue our 
investments once COVID-19 is solved for.LONG-TERM GOAL 
Reduce net aviation CO 2 emissions 50% by 
2050, relative to 2005 levels.
 
RESULTS: Making Progress
Since 2005, we have reduced absolute  
GHG emissions by 9%.   Absolute  
Emissions ReductionFuel Efficiency
2005 
 
 
2015 
 
 
2016 
 
 
2017
2018
2019GOALS & PROGRESS
T otal Emissions              OffsetsIn Millions of Metric T ons of CO2e45
40
35
30
25
20
2012 2013CO/two.supe Metric Tons (millions)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019International Air Transport Association-Aligned Goals
(Gallons per 100 RTM)15
1020
2009 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
IATA Goal                        Delta Progress
Carbon-Neutral GrowthIn 2020, we committed $1 billion 
over the next ten years toward 
mitigating all emissions from our 
global business going forward. 
MEDIUM-TERM GOAL 
Achieve carbon-neutral growth on international emissions beginning in 2021. Delta has capped all emissions at 2012 levels. SHORT-TERM GOAL  
Improve fuel efficiency by an average of 1.5% per year from 2009 to 2020.2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.6Since 2015, Delta’s NPS has improved by 13 
pts, including +4.9 pts of growth in 2019 
versus prior year. This improvement reflects 
increased recognition from customers 
of thoughtful, relevant investments in 
customer experience, including strong 
focus on our core business fundamentals—
operational reliability, world-renown 
customer service—and delivering other 
customer experience initiatives that take 
the stress out of travel, making air travel 
something to look forward to, such as our 
industry-leading in flight entertainment. 
Through continued focus on Delta’s 
strengths and opportunities for additional 
growth, we are committed to propelling our 
customer experience forward and realize 
long-term NPS benefits.
CUSTOMER  
SATISFACTIONGOALS & PROGRESS
Net Promoter Score (NPS)  
 
GOAL 
With 10+ points of growth over the past 
five years, we aim to surpass 60 points in 
the next five years.  
 
Year-Over-Year NPS Results
2015      2016      2017      2018      2019     OPERATIONAL   
SAFETY
Customer Safety & Health 
GOAL 
Proactively reduce risks by identifying, 
assessing, mitigating and/or eliminating 
hazards that may cause incidents, 
accidents or injuries to customers. 
ZERO
Serious Customer
Injuries
EMPLOYEE 
SAFETY
Global Injury Rate 
GOAL 
Achieve world-class personal safety 
performance with the goal of sending all 
Delta employees and business partners 
home safely each day. 
GLOBAL INJURY RATE
In 2019, our global injury rate was 43% 
better than industry average.TALENT &   
CULTURE
Employee Engagement  
 
GOAL 
Achieve an 85% positive  
employee engagement score. 
 
Employee Engagement
88% 87% 85% 89%
2015      2016      2017      2018      2019*     
In 2019 Delta  
was recognized by  
Great Place  
to Work®*
*Fortune 100  
  Best Companies  
  to Work For®  
  201982%
37.8 42.4 40.1 45.9 50.8
* In 2019, our score decreased due to the use of a new 
survey platform that measures different items than 
previous years.
2015
2016
2017
2018
20192019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.7
GOALS & PROGRESS
ENVIRONMENTAL  COMPLIANCE
Nonhazardous Waste Generation
GOAL 
Reduce year-over-year waste generation.  
Hazardous Waste Generation 
GOAL 
Reduce year-over-year waste generation. 
                               (in tons)   
 Environmental Notices
of Violation 
GOAL 
Not to exceed three notices.Spills 
GOAL 
No more than 90 combined Class I and 
Class II spills annually.2015 
2016 
2017
2018
20191,465
1,646
1,135
1,015
4,806*
1,310
1,124
1,529
1,345
1,2200
220
0
178,567****
10,00017
23
19
175**
0***2015 
2016 
2017
2018
2019
2015 
2016 
2017
2018
20192015 
2016 
2017
2018
2019Landfilled (in tons) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Recycled (in tons)Upcycled (in tons) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Landfill Construction Debris (in tons)
*Higher 2019 number is due to reclassification of some waste streams and a new reporting platform, allowing for a broader capture of waste volumes and improved accuracy. 
**Higher 2018 number is due to the retirement of frontline uniforms that were upcycled upon the release of the new styles.  
*** Programs and upgrades that would provide upcycling materials were not executed in 2019. 
****Higher 2018 tonnage due to airport redevelopment contaminated soils mitigation.
2015      2016      2017      2018      2019     
2015      2016      2017      2018      2019     446        432        477       444       670     
7              2             3            4             2     
The 2019 increase is mostly due to a new 
reporting platform implemented across 
stations that allows for broader input 
of waste generation data and improved 
accuracy. Another contributing factor is the 
opening of the new Rolls Royce facility at 
T echnical Operations facility in Atlanta. Delta 
is continuing to work with our supply chain 
to understand and reduce our hazardous 
waste footprint where possible.Annual variability is due to growth in 
operations and maintenance activities and 
will continue to affect reported numbers on 
a year-over-year basis.95
86 9391 932015                     2016                     2017     
  2018                     2019     2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.8
UNITED NATIONS  
SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) 
engage organizations across all sectors to help end poverty, protect the 
planet and ensure prosperity for all.  
Delta is committed to supporting those goals that
most closely align with our business.
 »Supported healthier global 
communities and lifestyles, as 
well as provided basic health 
needs worldwide 
 »#1 Corporate blood donor 
to the American Red Cross. 
In 2019, Delta employees 
donated 13,064 pints of blood, 
saving close to 40,000 lives 
 »Employees helped repack more 
than 2 million pounds of food 
annually across the globe, 
including support of 18 Feeding 
America food banks 
 »Global hospital support 
included 21 children’s hospitals, 
15 of which are Children’s 
Miracle Network Hospitals 
 »Employees and customers 
raised $6.6M million in 2019 
for the American Cancer 
Society, American Heart 
Association, Breast Cancer 
Research Foundation and 
United Way »Promoted education and 
lifelong learning for all 
 »Created a pipeline of future 
Delta employees and 
customers through our 
support of education 
 »Through partnership with 
Junior Achievement, Delta 
supported 30+ chapters 
across four continents to 
ignite an educational  
spark in 800,000+  
students annually 
 »Supported 3DE, an 
interactive educational 
program that re-engineers 
high school education to be 
more relevant, experiential 
and authentically connected 
to experiences outside  
the classroom  
 »Partnered with the national 
nonprofit KABOOM! to fund 
and build 30 playgrounds in  
14 cities since 2013 
 »Partnered with 22 YMCAs on 
2 continents to help provide 
programming to support  
educational programs »Created community 
partnerships with 
organizations like Girls Who 
Code to further diversity  
STEM careers
 »Cumulatively flew over 
600 girls on Delta’s annual 
all-female WING Flight to 
introduce them to jobs  
in aviation
 »Increased female 
representation across the 
business, particularly on 
the leadership level through 
strategic HR practices
 »Committed to maintaining  
pay parity for men and  
women in administrative and 
frontline jobs
 »Hired and developed  
women-owned businesses 
through Supplier Diversity & 
Inclusion program
 »Provided employee training  
to fight human trafficking in 
the air, at home and in  
local communities
 »First and only U.S. carrier 
to sign a Code of Conduct 
outlined by End Child 
Prostitution, Pornography  
and T rafficking
 »Founded company for the 
Global Business Coalition 
against Human T rafficking  
in 2012
 »Created career development 
opportunities to support 
human trafficking survivors »Provided approximately 
91,000 jobs throughout our 
global operations 
 »In 2019 Delta employs over  
12,000 active duty and  
military veterans 
 »Has consistently ranked  
high on national lists for 
employee engagement 
 »Provided competitive benefits 
and compensation 
 »Shared $1.6 billion in profits 
with employees, marking 
the sixth year in a row that 
profit sharing has exceeded 
$1 billion 
 »Invested in the individual 
potential of employees 
through training and 
development programs 
 »Established processes and 
encouraged practices to 
ensure a safe workplace  »Invested in innovative 
technology, such as 
biometrics, to enhance  
safety, security and the 
customer experience 
 »Collaborated with regulatory 
and government agencies to 
deploy new technologies that 
enhance flight safety 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.9
 »Promoted a culture of diversity 
and inclusion through Business 
Resource Groups that count more 
than 18,000 members 
 »Supported industry workplace 
diversity initiative, such as  
the CEO Action for  
Diversity & Inclusion 
 »Committed to spousal benefits  
for same-sex couples and  
their children 
 »Maintained a robust supplier 
diversity program to support 
minority, veteran, LGBTQ+, and 
women-owned businesses
 »Provided affordable air transport 
to facilitate cultural understanding 
and exchange
 »Enabled travel for those  
who are disabled or have  
medical conditions
 »Committed to becoming a member 
of the Billion Dollar Roundtable, an 
exclusive group of corporate brands 
that spend a minimum of  
$1 billion annually with certified 
diverse-owned businesses »Enabled global travel through  
the availability of affordable  
air transport 
 »Supported local communities 
where we live, work and  
serve through Delta Air Lines and 
The Delta Air Lines Foundation 
 »Promoted community engagement 
through our three key pillars of 
Advancing Education, Improving 
Health and Supporting Armed 
Service Members and Veterans 
 »Built 273 homes in 13 countries 
with Habitat for Humanity since the 
partnership began in 1995 
 »Each year, more than  
1,500 Delta employees have 
volunteered to build homes in the 
U.S. and internationally to offer 
families safe, decent and  
affordable homes  »Worked with our suppliers to 
increase the efficiency of our 
aircraft through lightweighting 
and aircraft replacements 
 »Upcycled aircraft, aircraft parts 
and uniforms through programs 
such as re:loom and Looptworks 
 »Promoted our headquarters and 
in-flight recycling programs at 
40 domestic recycling locations 
and three international recycling 
locations worldwide 
 »Material compliance with all 
environmental regulations in 
the areas of air quality, aircraft 
drinking water and waste
 »Delta has built 12 homes  
with Habitat for Humanity  
with funds from on-board 
recycling and T echOps oil 
recycling program. »Aligned with IATA on short-, 
medium- and long-term goals to 
improve fuel efficiency, achieve 
carbon neutral growth and reduce 
carbon emissions 
 »Committed $1 billion over the 
next ten years toward mitigating 
all emissions from our global 
business going forward through 
innovation, advancing clean air 
travel technologies, accelerating 
the reduction of carbon emissions 
and waste, and establishing new 
projects to mitigate the balance  
of emissions
 »Worked with suppliers to increase 
the fuel efficiency  
of aircraft and implement  
fuel-savings flight procedures 
 »Supported development of 
alternative aviation fuels
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
SAFETY 
 
SAFETY ABOVE ALL 11 
SAFETY LEADERSHIP & CULTURE 12
SAFETY ON THE GROUND 13
SAFETY IN THE SKIES 14
SAFETY FOR OUR CUSTOMERS 15
SAFETY ACROSS OUR NETWORK 15
SECURITY 16IN THIS CHAPTERABOVE ALL
102019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.11
Our commitment to a culture of safety is shaped by a genuine care for our people and 
customers. Safety is a core value at Delta and it connects us as a company globally—
whether taking care of a sick passenger, replacing a worn tire in Atlanta, completing a 
pre-flight checklist in London or inspecting ramp vehicles in Detroit. We are committed to 
sending every Delta employee and customer home to their loved ones safely each day.  
We proactively work to reduce risks by identifying, assessing, mitigating and/or eliminating 
hazards that may cause incidents, accidents or injuries to customers. On board aircraft, in 
boarding bridges and at airport gates, we perform risk assessments for the safety of our 
customers. Our in-flight safety demonstrations and announcements are regularly enhanced. 
Our pilot and maintenance teams collaborate to report on and repair onboard equipment 
such as seats, tray tables and bins. 
We also strive to achieve world-class personal safety performance with the goal of sending 
all Delta employees and business partners home safely. In 2019, our safety culture enabled 
us to maintain a 3.9% T otal Recordable Injury Rate performance. This is the same rate that 
we achieved in 2018 and 43% better than the industry average. Our days away, restricted 
or transfer rate (DART) was 3.21 days in 2019 compared to 3.09 in 2018.  REFLECTING ON THE VALUE OF SAFETY
At Delta, we are committed to running the safest 
operation possible. Our people and our business 
partners are empowered to take all necessary steps 
to ensure the safety of themselves, their colleagues 
and our customers at all times. That includes 
slowing down or stopping the operation if they 
feel it’s necessary. Our people are more important 
than budgets, metrics or any other pressures. But 
despite these measures, accidents may still happen. 
In August, we suffered the loss of a beloved, 
dedicated and respected member of our ground 
operations team during an accident on our ramp 
at JFK. He was a lead agent and 18-year employee, 
famous for his dedication to his colleagues and to 
Delta. Most of all, everyone knew his smile, which 
was always beaming even on the toughest days.  
After the accident, we conducted a thorough 
investigation to understand what happened. Since 
then, we have made enhancements to our tug 
operations policies and procedures, introduced 
new programs aimed at managing risk within our 
ramp operation and made significant investments 
in ground support equipment. As we look ahead, 
we will continue to leverage the strengths of our 
Safety Management System to ensure that we 
proactively address potential hazards in our system 
and take action promptly.  We are committed to 
doing everything in our power to ensure that every 
person at Delta goes home to their loved ones 
safely each day. There is nothing more important. 
SAFETY
Safety Above All
In 2019, we introduced a special Security 
Incident Response tool, allowing us to 
better mitigate dangerous actions or 
events, or circumstances that might  
target or unintentionally disadvantage 
Delta operations, brand, employee safety, 
or property.
OUR SAFETY CULTURE
3.9% 
T otal Recordable Injury Rate3.21 Days  
Days Away, Restricted or  
T ransfer Rate*
*Metric as defined by OSHA2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.12
Delta’s Safety Management System (SMS) is at the heart of 
all our safety programs. The system provides a framework for all employees 
to monitor, identify and address issues that may affect flight safety or lead 
to employee injury, environmental impact, non-compliance with regulatory 
requirements in our operations, asset damage or damage to the Delta brand.   
An effective SMS enables Delta to proactively address problems and hazards 
based on data gathered from everyday operations. When improvements to 
operational processes are suggested, the SMS allows Delta to rigorously 
analyze and evaluate the improvements’ potential impact on safety across the 
entire organization before a change is made. The SMS is broken down into 
four key focus areas—safety policy, safety risk management, safety assurance 
and safety promotion. Delta’s SMS is a proactive, data-driven, and predictive 
approach to managing safety in the operation.  
Read more about what we’re doing to enhance safety and security corporately, 
on the ground, in the sky and throughout the operation to protect our people, 
customers, and network. 
Recognizing that people’s actions and decisions are influenced by the 
environment and culture in which they work, we continue to invest in human 
performance and behavioral safety capability and techniques, which are 
the foundation of our business. As an example, our T echOps team engaged 
industry leaders in behavioral science to develop a program for over 
11,000 team members who will be trained in Advanced Error Reduction in 
Organization's tools and techniques.   
At Delta, we are committed to running the safest operation possible and 
embrace the principles of Just Culture through reporting of safety hazards, 
and peer-to-peer or manager-to-employee led safety observations and 
conversations. That commitment is also demonstrated by our consistent 
reinforcement to our frontline people that they are empowered to slow down 
or stop the operation if they feel it is necessary to do so to maintain safety.  The Aviation Safety Action Program (ASAP) is the most mature demonstration 
of our commitment to Just Culture. ASAP is a voluntary, non-punitive safety 
reporting program for all frontline operational employees that encourages 
proactive, confidential hazard and near-miss reporting. ASAP aims to 
embolden a healthy safety culture through its collaborative approach to 
risk identification and mitigation. It offers Delta pilots, mechanics, flight 
attendants, ground employees, dispatchers, and load planners a human 
performance-focused safety reporting program that allows for early 
detection of hazards and a systems approach to event review and continuous 
improvement. The goal of ASAP is to prevent future safety events. T ogether, 
Delta management, the FAA, and employee/labor representatives analyze the 
reported hazards and make recommendations to the company, the FAA, ATC, 
or even manufacturers to mitigate risks in the operation. 
SAFETY
SAFETY LEADERSHIP AND CULTURE 
Delta’s commitment to a strong safety culture starts with the oversight of the Board’s Safety & Security Committee and a dedicated executive leadership 
team. This team keeps the safety of our people and customers at the forefront of all business decisions. This safety-first business value is also the reason 
we created Delta’s CARE Model for all leaders, which describes four critical safety leadership behaviors: 
COMMUNICATE  
SAFETY EXPECTATIONSASSESS   
RISKREINFORCE   
SAFETY BEHAVIORSENGAGE  
EMPLOYEES
Communicate a compelling view 
of safety expectations internally 
and externally, including “safety 
above all” and the belief that all 
incidents are preventable. 
 Understand and identify 
health and safety risks across 
a wide range of planning and 
operational activities; seek to 
understand and quantify risks.  Foster a “Do the right thing 
even when no one is watching” 
culture while recognizing 
positive safety results,  
activities and behaviors. Monitor and review safety 
performance and share results 
across the organization;  
maintain trust and 
accessibility with colleagues. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.13Many enhancements were made in 2019 to improve the working environment 
and the equipment and technologies our employees and partners utilize daily.  
On the ground, our Airport Customer Service (ACS) team continues to look 
at ways to minimize the risk exposures inherent in working on the ramp and 
handling bags. We introduced 55 Power Stow belt loaders in 2019, with plans for 
additional units in the future. These belt loaders reduce the exposure of baggage 
handlers to motion-related injuries while manually stacking bags in the aircraft 
hold. Installation of new safety-critical devices are underway on tugs and other 
ground support equipment (GSE) vehicles across our operation, including engine 
cutoff switches to prevent uncommanded movement, and telematics, improving 
on the ground navigation and decreasing the risk of accidents. Divisional 
verification and assurance programs were also enhanced in 2019, increasing the 
number of observations across the operation, specifically focusing on our Serious 
Injury or Fatality Potential events.  
 
In addition to internal assurance programs, Delta’s Corporate Quality Assurance 
(QA) team conducts audits at our airports to review required documentation 
and interviews employees to confirm that safety expectations are met. In 2019, 
this team completed over 800 detailed safety audits across our domestic and 
international airports, focusing on Ground Operations, Cargo, De-Icing and 
Fueling. These reports go along with leadership’s local self-audits to identify 
areas that need attention. Data from these evaluations also are used when 
investigating incidents to correlate causal factors and identify topics that may 
need systemwide attention.
 
  The T echOps team continues to observe the SEAT approach for proactive safety 
observations and conversations in the operation. The Maintenance group also 
introduced an innovative new technology that provides digital tools, available via 
handheld devices, to complete advanced ergonomic assessments and training in 
real time. 
 
Finally, we continue to promote and reinforce “The Lifesavers” across all 
divisions. These are division-specific rules to prevent serious injury or fatality. 
T estimonial training videos, featuring lessons learned from employees who 
sustained an injury, further reinforce the Lifesavers safety message.  
SAFETY
SAFETY 
ON THE GROUND
SEAT  — SAFETY OBSERVATIONS
STOP
the unsafe 
behaviorENGAGE
in a friendly wayAGREE
on a safer way  
to proceedTHANK
them
22OSHA VPP Sites
Delta is proud to have 22 OSHA Voluntary 
Protection Program (VPP) Star locations in 
the United States and is still the only major 
airline with OSHA Corporate VPP status.1.3Delta VPP Sites  
Total Recordable Injury Rate
Industry average is 6.7.  
Source: Bureau of  
Labor Statistics.2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.14
Flight Operational Quality Assurance (FOQA) is the program we use to ensure 
the safety and efficiency of flights. Onboard recorders measure thousands of 
aircraft parameters, producing vast amounts of data that allow us to identify 
vulnerabilities and areas for improvement. Delta Flight Safety employs a data 
modeling and analysis team that continuously monitors system performance to 
proactively identify risk and implement effective operational solutions. The data 
we gather is also used to produce animated videos for training purposes. The 
success of FOQA requires the cooperation of diverse stakeholders and we view 
it as a testament to the strength of the relationships among and safety focus of 
the management and labor teams at Delta. Additionally, we use this valuable 
information for predictive maintenance, propulsion engineering and  
fuel conservation. 
We have added to our existing range of apps to make reporting safety concerns 
easier for our employees, including a Smoke and Fume App and a T urbulence 
App, which allow Flight Attendants to provide the critical facts following a 
smoke and fume or turbulence event in real time via a straightforward form. The 
Apps are accessed using the Delta SkyPro, a handheld device carried by all Delta 
flight attendants. 
Our In-Flight Service (IFS) T eam proactively built safety into daily routines via 
“CARE conversations.” These safety conversations between flight attendants 
and leaders focus on reviewing recent injuries and offering recommendations 
for changes to work methods to avoid injury in the future. CARE Conversations 
are complemented by the “I’ve Got Your Back” (#IGYB) movement, an 
employee-owned safety program that is fundamental to promoting peer-to-peer 
safety within the IFS team, with #IGYB champions in 19 bases. These champions 
engage their fellow flight attendants in lounges, concourses, and at gates to 
take the safety message to their peers.  
 
Delta’s Dangerous Goods Management Group manages and oversees handling 
of dangerous goods, as well as implementation of companywide dangerous 
goods policies. The program, operated as part of our quality management 
system, is tasked with establishing hazardous materials and dangerous goods 
standards, evaluating operations against those standards, recommending 
appropriate improvements, and promoting awareness and compliance.  
Delta understands the risks associated with carrying regulated materials 
onboard and accepts and transports hazardous materials through our Cargo/
Airport Customer Service division, as well as transporting company-required 
materials to T echOps facilities. Delta’s HazMat program is designed to ensure 
compliance with applicable regulations, as well as the International Civil Aviation 
Organization (ICAO) technical instructions. In a further effort to ensure the 
safety the safety of our employees and customers, all Delta employees who 
may be required to handle any type of hazardous materials are trained annually 
through an FAA-approved training program. 
SAFETY
SAFETY  
IN THE SKIES
TOTAL DANGEROUS GOODS CARGO VOLUMESDelta participates in and leads multiple 
industrywide safety initiatives. For example, 
we participate in a working group that uses 
the FAA’s Aviation Safety Information Analysis 
and Sharing (ASIAS) system. ASIAS promotes 
the open exchange of de-identified safety 
information to continuously raise awareness 
and standards in the industry. We also are an 
active participant leader and member of the 
Flight Safety Foundation, Commercial Aviation 
Safety T eam (CAST), International Air T ransport 
Association (IATA), National Safety Council and 
International Society of Air Safety Investigators. SAFETY INITIATIVES
139,531 FLIGHTS 469,035 PIECES 13,074,973 KG 
28,825,381 lbs2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.15
Our in-flight medical capabilities seek to provide  
best-in-class safety that exceeds FAA regulatory guidance 
for onboard medical equipment, supplies and medication.   
T o help us respond quickly to an emergency in the air, 
Delta accommodates passenger-specific, battery-operated 
medical devices, including portable oxygen concentrators 
that have been preapproved by the U.S. Department of 
T ransportation and Delta to ensure compatibility with 
aviation electronic systems.  
We voluntarily contract with STAT-MD, a division of 
emergency medicine services of the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center. STAT-MD provides 24/7 ground-based 
medical support for all domestic and international in-flight 
medical events, in addition to pre-flight medical  
fitness-to-fly consultative support. STAT-MD physician 
consultants are board-certified emergency medicine 
physicians who understand Delta’s onboard medical 
capabilities and the effects of altitude on physiology in 
flight. During in-flight medical occurrences, these trained 
physicians consult from the ground and provide treatment 
recommendations, which could include diverting a flight 
to the closest airport to provide a patient with more 
immediate medical care. This consultation happens in 
collaboration with pilots in the flight deck, flight attendant 
first responders, customer medical volunteers, if available, 
and the flight’s dispatcher from the Operations and  
Customer Center.  
In 2019, we introduced Narcan nasal sprays to help reverse 
opioid overdoses. In addition, we held 25 hands-only 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR without rescue breaths) 
training events, resulting in over 2,000 Delta employees 
learning the lifesaving technique. Safety Across Our Network  
With our codeshare partners and members of our SkyT eam® 
Alliance, Delta is committed to safety collaboration that goes 
beyond regulatory requirements. The DOT and FAA require 
audits of each of our partners every two years to ensure 
conformity to ICAO requirements. The IATA Operational Safety 
Audit (IOSA) program is one of the methods that Delta utilizes 
to conduct the audits. These audits last roughly five days 
each and include hundreds of elements, ranging from flight 
operations, maintenance and cabin service to ground and cargo 
handling. In between audits, we monitor major changes and 
safety, security or quality incidents. 
We believe that these standards are purely a foundation. Delta 
and its alliance partners are committed to safety and security 
across all partnerships through:  
• Monthly sessions with our Delta Connection partners, 
wherein each reports on safety and security metrics, 
shares corrective actions and mitigation plans on 
safety hazards, and recommends best practices. 
• Routine sessions with heads of safety for each of 
the 19 SkyT eam partners. This organization includes 
six working groups that focus on operational safety, 
ground safety, emergency response, quality and 
compliance, security and safety promotion.
• Dedicated sessions with our equity and joint  
venture partners.
• SMS Effectiveness Assessments, conducted jointly, 
provide tailored insights into our safety performance 
and a safety improvement roadmap.INTRODUCED  
NARCAN
NASAL SPRAY
25 
HANDS-ONLY
CPR EVENTS
2,000  
CPR TRAINED 
EMPLOYEES
SAFETY 
ON THE GROUND
SAFETY
SAFETY 
FOR OUR 
CUSTOMERS2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.16
Delta’s “All Hazards” approach guides our Business Continuity and Emergency 
Response teams in facilitating a companywide framework that proactively 
identifies threats that have the potential to disrupt our business. Some threats 
are outside of Delta’s control; thus, our Corporate Crisis Center response protocol 
places less emphasis on the actual event type, and more on the training and 
experience of our divisional responders. Their understanding of our response 
process, along with being closely attuned to how their area of responsibility fits 
into the response process, allows us to quickly develop an incident action plan 
that guides the strategy for response efforts. This ability to manage business 
disruption reduces recovery time while providing for the safety and security 
of our customers and employees. Frequent drills and simulations keep our 
responders familiar with response processes and equipped to respond at a 
moment’s notice.  
In close collaboration with U.S. government partners, we conduct regular threat 
assessments of all international locations Delta serves to ensure appropriate 
levels of protection. Delta utilizes government-provided classified information, 
as well as public and other private information to guide our efforts to mitigate 
emerging or existing threats. While mitigation measures are founded on 
government guidance, Delta, based on internal risk assessments, strives to go 
above and beyond government guidance to safeguard our customers, people and 
assets—no matter on the ground or in the sky. 
Delta continues to build on a range of initiatives to include the engagement and 
empowerment of our employees as security sensors and advocates. As part of 
that effort, we enhanced our Advanced Situational Awareness training, as well 
as active-shooter and armed-attack response training that highlights the actions 
employees can take to be more aware of their surroundings, as well as how they 
can respond to support the safety and security of employees, customers, and 
facilities. The training was completed by more than 50,000 employees.       
SAFETY
In 2019, we expanded our tactical response 
and global reach by introducing a special 
Security Incident Response tool, allowing 
us to better mitigate dangerous actions or 
events, or circumstances that might target or 
unintentionally disadvantage Delta operations, 
brand, employee safety, or property. This tool, 
which can quickly expand security resources 
across the globe, has been adopted into 
the broader Delta Risk Management portfolio. 
This new ability provided additional resources  
and functionality to respond to multiple  
emerging events that occurred throughout 2019.  SECURITY INCIDENT  
RESPONSE TOOL
SECURITYKeep Climbing…
Keep Climbing isn’t just something we say—it’s something 
we do. We’re here 95 years after our first flight because of our 
relentless drive to find a better way to serve our customers 
and our employees. And as complex and technical as running 
the world’s most reliable airline is, the way we do it is simple 
and human. It’s by listening to the needs, ideas and dreams 
of our customers, employees and partners, then charting a 
course that takes us there. It is the reason we never accept 
the status quo, leading innovation in the industry for decades, 
and it is why the best team in the world gives their best every 
day. Curiosity fuels us, innovation propels us, and humanity 
lifts us, so we never look back.  
 
We only Keep Climbing. 
17 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
KEEP CLIMBING...
 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE      19
MANAGING & MITIGATING SPILLS  21
PROTECTING AIR QUALITY  22
AIRCRAFT DRINKING WATER  23
WASTE MANAGEMENT  24
 Hazardous Waste  24 
 Nonhazardous Waste   25
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 27
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE &  
MANAGEMENT STRATEGY  28
CLIMATE RISK  29
CLIMATE ACTION 31
METRICS: TRANSPARENCY & REPORTING 37IN THIS CHAPTERFOR OUR PLANET
18ENVIRONMENTAL 
COMPLIANCE 
Our operations are subject to international, federal, state 
and local laws and regulations put in place to protect the 
environment, including mandates related to greenhouse gases 
and other air emissions, noise reduction, water discharges, 
aircraft drinking water, storage and use of petroleum, and the 
management and disposal of hazardous waste, substances  
and materials.  
Compliance with these laws and regulations is a starting point 
for protecting the environment, but regulations are minimum 
requirements for us. Where we can, we ensure that our 
operations have the lowest possible environmental impact. 
And where regulations do not exist, we operate responsibly by 
following best practices. We innovate on the basis of our own 
operational knowledge and experience, and in the event of an 
environmental incident, we respond promptly, coordinating 
with applicable regulatory authorities to address and mitigate 
any impact and to prevent a recurrence.
FOR OUR PLANET
We are on a journey to meaningfully 
impact the planet and to ensure the 
sustainability of our business for decades 
to come. 
We have committed $1 billion over the 
next 10 years on our journey to become 
carbon neutral by investing in innovation, 
advancing clean air travel technologies, 
accelerating the reduction of carbon 
emissions and waste, and establishing  
new projects to mitigate the balance  
of emissions. 
DELTA AIR LINES, INC. 19 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTENVIRONMENTAL 
POLICY
Publicly available policy outlining our 
commitment to conduct our operations 
in an environmentally 
sustainable manner.ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROGRAMS MANUAL (EPM)
Our internal policy and compliance management 
protocol document explains how to follow environmental 
regulations. The EPM is managed at a corporate level and is 
regularly updated to ensure that it addresses all applicable 
federal, state and local environmental regulations, in 
addition to best practices for all 
Delta’s U.S.-based operations.
 SCHEDULED 
COMPLIANCE VISITS
These routine informal, nonregulatory visits are 
conducted internally to reinforce training and to provide 
additional guidance and feedback to station environmental 
personnel and divisional leaders. They also enable more 
comprehensive visits on an annual basis, which 
enables quick identiﬁcation of areas in 
which to make operational and process 
improvements, as well as the provision 
of corrective action plans.
ENVIRONMENTAL 
COORDINATORS (ECs) & 
ENVIRONMENTAL REPRESENTATIVES (ERs)
Our daily hands-on environmental compliance leads, who are located at all mainline airport 
stations and maintenance locations where Delta operates. They are responsible for 
coordinating all environmental compliance eﬀorts, including conducting inspections, keeping 
records, liaising between airport environmental staﬀ and regulatory authorities, and overseeing 
airport service contractors. New ECs and ERs are also required to attend in-person training 
sessions with an environmental compliance manager from their division. ECs and ERs who are 
required to use specialized equipment or who have oversight in speciﬁc compliance 
areas—such as stormwater, hazardous waste or drinking water—receive additional 
standardized compliance training in their areas of responsibility. Members of our Corporate 
Environmental Compliance Management team routinely work with ECs and ERs at airports to 
provide training and to ensure that all compliance work is monitored and audited via the same 
metrics and protocols system-wide. 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT 
INFORMATION SYSTEM (EMIS)
A web-based tracking tool tailored to our unique needs 
that works in conjunction with a station’s EMS 
to ensure timely compliance of scheduled 
environmental tasks. 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (EMS)
Works alongside the EPM to manage and track 
station-speciﬁc environmental roles, responsibilities, 
records and documents for complying 
with regulations on an airport-
speciﬁc level.MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 
FOR OUR PLANET
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 DELTA AIR LINES, INC.2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.21
MANAGING & MITIGATING SPILLS 
As a member of the communities where we live, work, and serve, 
it’s important for us to protect our communities. It is why we 
have developed procedures for preventing releases of hazardous 
substances associated with our operations. Those procedures give 
instruction on storing and handling a wide range substances and 
materials, such as jet fuel, diesel fuel, gasoline, hydraulic fluid, and 
glycol-based aircraft deicing fluids.
In the event of a spill, our employees and business partners are trained through 
both computer-based and hands-on coaching to respond and to clean up in 
accordance with internally approved procedures that comply with external 
agencies. They include the following:  
Ensuring the safety of all employees, passengers and the public.   
Stopping the spill at its source and containing it as soon as it is  
safe to do so.  
Notifying our airport and division leadership about the incident and 
reporting it to government agencies as required.  
Investigating  all spills equal to or greater than five gallons to determine 
contributing factors. If necessary, a corrective action plan is developed and 
carried out to complete any necessary remediation and to prevent future 
spills from occurring.    
 In 2019, we purchased two underflow dams (Water-Gate by HalenHardy®) 
and two booms (HARBO T-Fence by HalenHardy®) to help manage and 
mitigate spills to waterways. These dams feature inclined pipes to move water 
downstream while containing the spill behind the dam. Each is designed to 
be deployed quickly (in under 30 minutes) and with minimum personnel. 
These two systems are housed at our bulk-fuel storage facilities in Atlanta and 
Cincinnati to quickly assist in initially containing a petroleum release until our 
team’s emergency-spill-response contractors can access the site. 
Our total number of recordable Class I and Class II spills in 2019 was 93, 
which constitutes an 8% increase from 2018. This number includes a total of 
25 reportable spills, which represents a 25% increase from 2018. The annual 
variability of spill numbers has been tied to the increased and expanded 
operations and variations in the frequency of fueling, fleet type, deicing events 
and other maintenance activities. Annual variability will continue to impact 
the number of our reported spills every year. For context, we transfer roughly 1 
million gallons of jet fuel daily in Atlanta alone. However; compared to the total 
gallons of jet fuel transferred in our operations (approximately 1 million gallons 
per day in Atlanta in 2019 alone, the total amount of jet fuel spilled systemwide 
in 2019 (4,719 gallons) was very small.
2017 2018 2019
Class I Recorded Spills 38 39 44
Class II Recorded Spills 55 47 49
T otal Recorded Spills (Class I + II) 93 86 93
Regulatory Reportable Spills 21 20 25
Annual Spill Goal  < 87 < 90 < 90RECORDED SPILLS AND SPILL GOALS
We received two notices of violation (NOVs) from environmental regulatory agencies 
in 2019. Therefore, we realized our goal of not exceeding three for the year. 
One NOV from the California Air Resources Board (CARB) was related to a 
specialty vehicle at San Francisco Airport with an older on-road engine that had 
specific-use restrictions. The limited use of that engine could not be verified by 
a third party, and the NOV included an insignificant financial penalty.  
We received the other NOV at the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky Airport for a 
stormwater discharge violation.    NOTICE OF VIOLATION/NONCOMPLIANCE
2017 2018 2019
Notices of Violations 3 4 2
Goal: Not to Exceed 3 3 3
Fines ($) 0 0 $1,000
FOR OUR PLANET2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.22Delta is committed to reducing air emissions, including carbon monoxide (CO), 
nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM), sulfur oxides (SOx), volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs) and hazardous air pollutants (HAPs).
Third-party environmental professionals review and audit our air-quality programs for 
compliance as needed. These audits include a multifaceted inspection of agency reporting, 
emissions records and work practices.
Additionally, eight Delta facilities must file routine emissions inventory reports consistent with 
individual state requirements. This includes tracking CO, NOx, PM, SOx and VOCs. Seven sites 
require emissions reporting annually, and one requires reporting every three years. The eight 
facilities are:  
• Atlanta T echnical Operations Center, Atlanta, Georgia   
• Atlanta Airport Station, Atlanta, Georgia   
• Atlanta Corporate Headquarters, Atlanta, Georgia   
• Minneapolis Airport Station and T echnical Operations Center (combined reporting), 
Minneapolis, Minnesota   
• Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport Office Building J, Minneapolis, Minnesota   
• Iron Range/Hibbing Customer Engagement Center, Hibbing, Minnesota   
• Cincinnati Airport Station, Hebron, Kentucky   
• Salt Lake City Airport Station, Salt Lake City, Utah (triennial reporting)    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ground Support Equipment (GSE), which services planes between flights, also can contribute 
to air emissions and affect local air quality through fuel use. During 2019, we increased 
deployment of electric GSE and to use alternative fuels in this equipment. Future efforts will 
focus on Boston-Logan International, Newark-Liberty, John F. Kennedy, LaGuardia, Portland 
International, Salt Lake City airports and California stations. 
FOR OUR PLANET
PROTECTING AIR QUALITY
AIR QUALITY IN CALIFORNIA
California’s air quality requirements are more 
stringent than the federal and state requirements 
that apply to our other domestic operations. 
In an effort to lower overall airport emissions, 
we worked with the South Coast Air Quality 
Management District on airport memorandums 
for GSE (ground support equipment) emissions 
at Los Angeles International Airport, Ontario 
International Airport and John Wayne Airport. 
We regularly report to the California Air 
Resources Board (CARB) and Los Angeles World 
Airports (LAWA), and have systematically 
upgraded older parts of our GSE fleet to newer,  
lower-emissions vehicles. We have also 
worked with the airports to ensure charging 
infrastructure for use of electric vehicles is 
sufficient for demands. By January 1, 2020, we 
attained the combined GSE fleet target of  
0.1 grams per brake horsepower hour for diesel 
airborne toxic control measures. Our airports and 
Technical Operations 
facilities comply with federal 
and local air quality requirements. 
In 2019, we submitted Title V Air 
Permit renewal applications for four sites, as 
required by federal regulations for routine 
updating and reissuance. In November 2019, 
the Georgia Environmental Protection Division 
renewed the Title V permit for our General 
Offices in Atlanta. Working with the Georgia 
Environmental Protection Division and Minnesota 
Pollution Control Authority, we expect the 
remaining three permits to be renewed in 2020.  
CRITERIA POLLUTANT EMISSIONS (TONS/YEAR)
2017* 2018 2019
Carbon Monoxide (CO) 159.85 43.67 44.51
Nitrogen Oxides (NO x) 133.42 102.30 133.90
Particulate Matter (PM) 24.21 23.12 15.52
Sulfur Dioxides (SO 2) 12.21 13.20 14.97
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 179.54 155.30 119.09
* 2017 reporting includes data from the Salt Lake City Airport Station, which requires reporting every three years.2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.23
FOR OUR PLANET
The quality of aircraft drinking water is a top priority to ensure customer safety and satisfaction. Each 
plane is equipped with a tank system that holds anywhere from 38 to 290 gallons of potable water, 
depending on aircraft size and type. This water is needed for hot tea and coffee made in the galleys, while 
regular drinking water is served from bottles. The onboard water system also supports sinks and commodes 
in the lavatories.  
Delta sources local water from municipal water sources that have been approved by the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) as public water systems. U.S. public water systems are held to the EPA’s National 
Primary Drinking Water Standards.  
As required by the EPA’s Aircraft Drinking Water Rule, we disinfect the potable water tanks on each 
aircraft four times per year, perform aircraft water quality sampling once per year, and report this 
information to the EPA on an ongoing basis.  
For international locations where we board water, we apply the EPA’s requirement that water be absent of 
total coliform bacteria, an indicator of potential water contamination. If coliform is detected in any water 
sample, we perform prescribed corrective measures at the earliest possible opportunity for each aircraft. 
These measures include further disinfection of the water tank and follow-up sampling.   AIRCRAFT DRINKING WATER
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.24
WASTE  
MANAGEMENT
Reducing waste throughout the operation is an ongoing 
goal of the company, key to meeting our environmental 
compliance commitments and lowering our overall 
environmental impact. We manage three different types 
of waste streams each of which varies by material type 
and regulatory handling requirements: hazardous waste, 
nonhazardous waste and recyclable or reusable materials. 
FOR OUR PLANET
HAZARDOUS WASTE  
The generation of hazardous waste is a function of operating a safe and compliant commercial airline. We recognize the negative societal and environmental 
impact of improper handling and disposal of hazardous waste—including the potential harm to the health of our employees and local communities. Accordingly, 
we have initiatives in place that are intended to ensure proper management and disposal of hazardous waste in compliance with applicable regulatory 
requirements. Our hazardous waste is carefully managed by vetted and approved vendors that are bound by contract to ensure the safe and compliant handling 
of all waste that is generated. We also proactively track and monitor our hazardous waste generation throughout the system.  
Delta has waste minimization plans at all large-quantity generator locations; we have also set goals to reduce hazardous waste generation, the progress of which 
are monitored on a monthly basis. 
Our goal is to show absolute year-over-year improvement in hazardous waste generation. Establishing this goal increases transparency and compels us to 
continuously identify ways to reduce our environmental impact.  
 
In 2019, we generated a total of 670 tons of hazardous waste at these facilities, compared with 444 tons in 2018 (the same tracking method was used for 
both years). This represents a 51% increase year over year. The increase resulted from the rise in maintenance activity necessitated by the opening of a new 
Rolls-Royce center in Atlanta. In addition, a new engine test cell was added to support this center. While these activities resulted in increased hazardous 
waste generation, our enhanced waste management practices to reduce perishable chemicals throughout our system has had a positive impact on the 
amount of hazardous waste made. Our newer aircraft also have different maintenance requirements than the older aircraft they replace. We expect this will 
result in reduced hazardous waste generation in the future from maintenance activities. Hazardous  
Waste  
While hazardous waste generation as a whole 
increased, we expect to see future reductions 
due to fleet modernization which will reduce 
hazardous waste from  
our aircraft operations.
Recyclable/  
Reusable Materials  
We continue to assess our waste streams  
and waste handling operations to identify high-
value materials for reuse and recycling, as  
well as ways to minimize what we  
send to landfills. Nonhazardous  
Waste  
We upcycle and derive additional  
use from parts through our subsidiary Delta 
Material Services (DMS), utilizing facilities and 
manpower when it comes to aircraft parts.  
We are also looking at sustainability metrics, 
such as recycled content in products  
we purchase, as well as what the  
end-of-life plan will be when 
we can no longer use  
a product.  2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.25
FOR OUR PLANET
NONHAZARDOUS WASTE  
Delta-generated nonhazardous waste includes waste from operations, maintenance and construction activities at airports and other locations where partners 
separate our materials and send us waste stream volumes. We strive to minimize waste sent to a landfill but given the complexity of operating these diverse 
waste streams, not all nonhazardous waste generated can be recycled or diverted from a landfill.  In 2019, we re-classified certain waste streams and improved 
and changed our reporting platform, allowing for a broader capture of waste volumes which is reflected in the total tons landfilled.
We seek to identify materials and opportunities to maximize our landfill diversion, and we target year-over-year reductions.   
In 2019, we produced 4,806 total tons of nonhazardous landfill waste from Delta operations alone—an increase from 1,015 tons in 2018. The increase was 
due to a change in the way we track our metrics and the addition of Rolls Royce facility to the Atlanta T echnical Operations Center. 
In addition, we had 10,000 tons of waste from multiple airport redevelopment projects that resulted in large amounts of construction-related debris 
removal. This number does not include normal trash or refuse from our airport operations, and it was a one-time only occurrence.   
MATERIAL STREAMS 2017 2018 2019
Landfilled or Incinerated Materials  1,135 1,015 4,806
Landfilled Construction Debris -- 178,567 10,000
Recycled Material 1,529 1,345 1,220
Reused/Upcycled Materials 19 175 0*NONHAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATION (TONS) 
SINGLE-USE PLASTICS 
In 2019, we removed a variety of single-use plastic items equal 
to the weight of almost two Boeing 757 aircraft. The elimination 
included stir sticks, wrappers, utensils and straws from Delta 
aircraft and Delta Sky Clubs, as well as plastic wrap from 
international Main Cabin cutlery. We also eliminated unnecessary 
plastic wrapping from Delta One amenity kits and continue to 
review all the plastics used in our onboard service. 
ZERO-WASTE OPERATIONS 
In 2019 we achieved zero-waste operations—which we define 
as 90% waste diverted from landfill—at three Delta Sky Club 
locations: Seattle, Minneapolis-St Paul and San Francisco. These 
Delta Sky Clubs recycle packaging, compost leftover food and 
provide eco-conscious food service items.
* Programs and upgrades that would provide upcycling materials were not executed in 2019. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.26
FOR OUR PLANET
IN-FLIGHT RECYCLING PROGRAM
2017            2018            2019     35               41               43     784            793            794      $251,234  $193,516  $44,000     
2017            2018            2019     2017            2018            2019     
RECYCLING STATIONS RECYCLED TONS REBATES
IN-FLIGHT RECYCLING CHALLENGES 
The price of recycled commodity products on the open market continued 
to fall in 2019, primarily due to lack of demand. In some instances, 
recycling costs us more than it would to landfill material. As a result, 
despite volumes that were consistent, our recycling rebates and 
consequently our recycling-derived donations to Habitat for Humanity 
dropped by more than 80%. We expect this situation to continue for the 
foreseeable future.   
At most domestic locations, we encounter challenges in measuring 
diversion rates and understanding trends for recycling efforts because  
our waste streams may become intertwined with those of all other 
airlines at the airport. This lack of segregation and access to recycling 
data makes it a constant challenge to determine the true volume of our 
recycling program.   
The U.S. Department of Agriculture considers materials from international 
flights contaminated by meat, dairy and/or produce to be regulated 
waste, which must be thermally treated to ensure there is no 
contamination to domestic U.S. agriculture. Similar rules apply in  
other countries we fly to. For this reason, our greatest international 
recycling challenge remains determining the best approach for 
collecting and separating materials while keeping recyclable materials 
uncontaminated both onboard the aircraft and upon arrival at the 
international flight kitchen. 
Started operation. 
40 U.S. cities with programs for on-board 
recycling on domestic ﬂights; 3 international 
recycling city. These 43 locations cover 78% of 
our passenger traﬃc. 
We collect single-stream materials, 
including plastic, aluminum and paper.  
We do not always receive rebates or volumes 
for these materials owing to airport-speciﬁc 
protocols for removing waste, but we are 
nevertheless committed to removing these 
items from the waste stream. 
Proceeds from recycling rebates are donated to Habitat 
for Humanity. Total rebates from 2007 to 2019 have 
totaled more than $1.4 million dollars. These funds 
have been used, along with Delta employee volunteer 
hours, to fund and build 12 Habitat for 
Humanity homes in 7 Delta cities. 
We built a 13th home in Atlanta solely from the 
proceeds of used oil and scrap metal, which were 
donated by our Technical Operations group.IN-FLIGHT COMINGLED RECYCLING PROGRAM2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.27
FOR OUR PLANET
Reducing Delta’s carbon footprint through 
enterprise-wide efforts to decrease the use of 
jet fuel and increase efficiency. Areas of focus 
include an ambitious fleet renewal program, 
improved flight operations to reduce use fuel 
use, weight reduction to help improve fuel 
efficiency, and increased development and 
use of sustainable aviation fuels.  Investing in innovative projects and 
technology to remove carbon emissions from 
the atmosphere that go beyond the airline’s 
current commitments and investigating 
carbon removal opportunities through 
forestry, wetland restoration, grassland 
conservation, marine and soil capture, and 
other negative-emissions technologies.Building coalitions with our employees, 
suppliers, global partners, customers, 
industry colleagues, investors and other 
stakeholders to advance carbon reduction 
and removal goals and to maximize our  
global impact.
CARBON REDUCTION CARBON REMOVAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTAs we connect people with communities, experiences and one another, we are committed to doing our part to build a better world. As a purpose-driven and 
values-led company, we will reduce our environmental impact. We led the U.S. aviation industry by launching the first carbon offset program in 2007, making 
it easy for customers to reduce the environmental impact of their travel. Delta is also the only major airline to voluntarily cap carbon emissions at 2012 levels 
by purchasing carbon offsets. As we look to the future of aviation, we will focus our efforts to reduce our impact on jet fuel, which is the primary contributor 
to our carbon footprint.   
We are committed to working with partners across our industry to find meaningful business solutions that decrease the industry’s impact. Our $1 billion 
investment over the next ten years in initiatives that will limit the impact of global air travel on the environment attests to our commitment. We will invest in 
spearheading innovation, advancing clean air travel technologies, accelerating the reduction of carbon emissions and waste, and establishing new projects to 
mitigate the balance of emissions.   
Our goals for this initiative include: 
While we stand by this commitment, the financial repercussions from the global reach of COVID-19 were felt throughout the company and in all departments. 
We will retire some offsets toward our 2019 flights, but we expect the cumulative emissions from FY19/20 to be lower than our internal emissions cap level 
(at 2012 levels) because of what was nearly a global freeze on airline travel.  ENVIRONMENTAL  
SUSTAINABILITY  
CLIMATE CHANGE, EMISSIONS & AIR FLEET  2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.28
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT STRATEGY  
Delta’s stakeholders expect us to produce sustainable and responsible positive financial results while investing in healthy communities, maintaining a 
robust workforce and protecting natural environments. Collectively, these expectations drive our approach to Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
sustainability and responsibility. For this reason, sustainability at Delta is defined as meeting the company’s financial goals of growth and profitability over time 
through innovative business practices that minimize the environmental impact of Delta operations and promote the health, welfare and productivity of the 
individuals and communities we employ and serve.  
 
FOR OUR PLANET
Action                  Innovation                  Collaboration                  Evolution                  Transparency  Delta Board of 
Directors Corporate  
Governance Committee 
This position is responsible 
for day-to-day management 
of climate change and 
environmental sustainability  
issues, and for establishing the 
direction of Delta’s sustainability 
efforts and its sustainability 
standards. This individual also 
chairs the Executive Environment 
and Leadership Council (EELC). The highest governance body 
for ESG oversight, which 
includes climate change and 
environmental sustainability 
efforts; the charter includes 
responsibility for the oversight 
of Delta’s sustainability efforts  
and progress. Senior  
Vice President/  
Chief Sustainability Officer EELC Delta Risk Council
Cross-divisional group that 
develops risk mitigation 
strategies and updates 
its assessment of risks as 
operational conditions change. 
Delta’s annual Flight Plan guides the strategy and action items for both short and long term activity for the company. Certain metrics related to climate strategy 
remain on the annual Flight Plan year over year, including a metric on fuel/fleet efficiency and emissions reduction. 
Because fuel accounts for a significant portion of Delta’s costs, any efforts to save fuel and reduce fuel expenses (new aircraft, fuel savings initiatives) directly 
impact Delta’s pre-tax income, which in turn affects profit sharing for all employees and the attainment of targets in annual incentive plans in which the  
CEO participates. 
Our other short- and long-term climate and sustainability actions are driven by the following:  
• Delta Flight Plan, which outlines our annual corporate goals for the year, is updated annually with key metrics and visions for the company 
• Environmental Policy 
• Carbon Emissions Policy  
• Delta’s $1B commitment over the next ten years on a journey toward carbon neutrality, driven by our Sustainability Principles: Senior-level executive council 
responsible for the approval  
of Delta’s environmental  
sustainability and emissions  
strategies, programs and annual  
goals. This council also provides  
advice and recommendations to  
the CEO and Corporate  
Leadership team on issues  
related to environmental  
sustainability, resilience  
planning and climate change.  
The EELC consists of individuals  
from corporate real estate, fuel 
management, flight operations, 
technical operations and brand 
management, among  
other sectors.Air travel accounts for about 2% of global carbon emissions. Within 
Delta, jet fuel makes up 98% of our carbon footprint. We recognize 
the impact of our emissions contribution on climate change and our 
role in helping to mitigate the carbon footprint of air travel.  
Given the scope of Delta’s emerging risks, including environmental 
sustainability and climate change, our strategic approach to 
addressing risk is part of a company-wide risk management process.  
FOR OUR PLANET
CLIMATE 
RISK
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC. 292019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.30
TRANSITION RISK
REGULATORY 
& POLICY We consider the risk (financial, scope, etc.) of current regulations, such as EU ETS, in addition to some environmental taxes that are 
placed on Delta and/or our passengers. Examples are the Palau tax and Germany and UK taxes. Because there’s a financial impact, 
we consider all potential regulations (as discussed at an industry level) to ensure we are evaluating the risk appropriately. Emerging 
regulations such as CORSIA are a large part of our assessment, and we continue to evaluate the risks associated with CORSIA, as 
we believe this should be the only global scheme to address international aviation emissions. In addition, evaluating other regional 
schemes continues to be part of our climate assessment, as Delta would pay multiple taxes or fees for the same fuel if both CORSIA 
and another regional scheme applied. As there could be a financial impact, we track and consider all applicable emerging regulations 
(as discussed at an industry level) to ensure we are evaluating the risk appropriately.
TECHNOLOGYOur evaluation of technology risk is currently tied to emerging regulation, such as the ICAO new aircraft CO 2 emissions standard which 
will reduce the impact of aviation greenhouse gas emissions on the global climate. Standards or regulations related to new aircraft 
technology improvements will impact how airline operators can transition to a low-carbon economy.  
MARKETWe evaluate risks, such as a possible shift from air travel (business travelers) for face-to-face meetings to using remote/telework 
options. We also evaluate the possibility of a change in consumer behavior driven by the perception that flying has a negative impact.
REPUTATIONPublic concern about climate change may enhance the reputation of airlines that are perceived as being proactive in their handling of 
greenhouse gas emissions. We address this by considering how we communicate our actions with regard to climate change and by 
ensuring that we educate and engage stakeholders.
PHYSICAL RISK
ACUTE
PHYSICALOur operations are impacted by severe weather, natural disasters and seasonality. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters (or 
other environmental events) can significantly disrupt service and create air traffic control problems. These events decrease revenue 
and can also increase costs. In addition, increases in the frequency, severity or duration of thunderstorms, hurricanes, typhoons or 
other severe weather events, including those from changes in the global climate, could result in increases in delays and cancellations, 
turbulence-related injuries and fuel consumption (to avoid such weather), any of which could result in loss of revenue and higher costs. 
The impact of this risk is regularly assessed by our Operations Customer Center in order to prepare for disruptions from weather events.
CHRONIC 
PHYSICALOne of the major constraints on an aircraft’s revenue-generating ability is the amount of payload it can carry at takeoff. This is 
influenced by air density. Increased mean temperatures result in lower air density and consequently a lower takeoff performance, 
reducing the payload capability of an aircraft while increasing fuel costs. This effect is pronounced at high-altitude airports, which  
have lower air density due to their elevation, such as Delta’s hub in Salt Lake City. Chronic physical risks also impact the airports we 
serve that are coastal, at sea level and more prone to flooding. As with acute physical risks, these are assessed by our Operations 
Customer Center. CLIMATE RISK AND STRATEGYFOR OUR PLANET
Sustainability Strategy  
Our sustainability strategy includes evaluating various risks and opportunities associated with climate change to determine how we can integrate them into our 
short-, medium- and long-term planning. Both transition and physical risks are evaluated as part of this process.2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.31
CLIMATE OPPORTUNITIES
FLEETIncreases in fuel- and CO 2-related costs as a result of international agreements, carbon taxes, cap and trade schemes, fuel taxes and regulations, 
and voluntary agreements provide Delta with additional incentives to implement other fuel conservation initiatives, thereby lowering Delta’s fuel 
expenditure and mitigating Delta’s environmental impact. Any reduction in fuel consumption results in reduced exposure to GHG emissions and 
less sensitivity to changes in the cost of carbon and fossil fuel. New, we believe new, more efficient aircraft will produce the biggest impact on our 
efficiency and our ability to reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions. Over the past few years, we have reduced the number of regional aircraft  
and depended on larger aircraft, such as the Boeing 717-200, to achieve the same capacity with fewer takeoffs and landings, thereby improving  
overall efficiency.
Our commitment to addressing climate change is a factor in the way we manage our fleet. We balance technological improvements available in new 
aircraft with a desire to build a fleet that is sustainable for the long-term and that maximizes the useful life of our planes. Our $8.4 billion in cash flow 
from operations in 2019 helped fund $4.9 billion in capital expenditures for the business. As part of our multiyear fleet transformation, in 2019 we took 
delivery of 88 new aircraft, including A321-200s, B-737-900ERs, A350-900s, A330-900s, and A220-100s.
As a result of COVID-19 and the need to park aircraft, Delta retired the MD-99, MD-90 and the Boeing 777 earlier than previously planned.
FUELAs Delta works toward achieving the goal set in February 2020 (committing $1B over the next 10 years in an effort to achieve carbon neutrality), 
part of its efforts will be assessing the role sustainable aviation fuel plays in the portfolio. T o do that, we will be evaluating multiple feedstock types, 
technology types and locations, as well as attempting to understand the life cycle of emissions reduction. We will also evaluate incentives against the 
current premium of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) to determine the role that offtakes and investments may play in helping to reduce our footprint 
while we scale SAF for the industry.  
Currently, alternative jet fuel can constitute up to 50% of a blend with conventional jet fuel. The potential financial impact of using this at 1c per 
gallon for 50% of our obligation equals more than $20M in additional costs. In reality, the premium is much higher, and the percentage of our fuel 
consumption that can be biofuel is much less than 50%, as currently the total supply can cover only 1% of total jet fuel consumption. Even at 1% of our 
total consumption (approximately 41 million gallons), a 10c premium would cost an additional $4M. An additional $1 premium would be $41M.
 
CARBON
OFFSETS 
 As Delta works toward achieving the goal set in February 2020 ($1B over the next 10 years in an effort to achieve carbon neutrality), we realize that 
we will be largely dependent on offsets to realize our goal until new aircraft technology and SAF become available at scale. We will be looking at how 
carbon offsets can also support the local communities in which we live and serve while contributing to a circular energy economy (offset project types 
that may be able to provide feedstock for SAF in the future).
CLIMATE ACTION   
 
Carbon Reduction and Avoidance 
New Fleet  
Fleet replacement currently has the largest impact on our emissions and efficiency.  
New aircraft are 25% more efficient per seat mile than the aircraft they replace.  
In 2019, Delta operated our first full year with the Airbus 220—our newest state-of-the-art aircraft, 
featuring best-in-class fuel efficiency—in our fleet, becoming the first U.S. airline to take delivery  
of the aircraft in 2018.  
In 2019, our $8.4 billion of cash flow from operations helped fund $4.9 billion in capital expenditures for the 
business. As part of our multiyear fleet transformation, we took delivery of 88 new aircraft, including A321-200s, 
B-737-900ERs, A350-900s, A330-900s, and A220-100s. 
As a result of COVID-19 and the need to park aircraft, Delta will retire the MD-88 and MD-90 aircraft (two of the least 
efficient fleets) earlier than previously planned, with both aircraft types exiting the fleet effective June 2020. In addition, 
Delta's Boeing 777 will be retired by the end of 2020. Delta will continue flying its fleet of long-haul next generation Airbus 
A350-900s, which burn 21% less fuel per seat than the 777s they will replace.
FOR OUR PLANET
The cross-divisional initiative that yielded the most 
fuel dollars and emissions reductions was reducing 
the run time of Delta’s onboard auxiliary power units 
(APUs):   
Ensuring the aircraft parked at the gate is 
hooked up to ground power, as this utilizes one 
tenth of the energy of jet fuel  
Asking customers to close shades and open 
the vents in the cabin during summer months.
These efforts keep the cabin up to 10 degrees 
cooler, decreasing the amount of time needed 
to run the auxiliary power unit  
Through the focused efforts by our ramp 
team, maintenance teams, flight crews and 
customers, we were able to save nearly 14M 
gallons in 2019
FOR OUR PLANET
INITIATIVESFUEL SAVINGS  
(gallons)FUEL SAVINGS  
($)EMISSIONS  
AVOIDED IN CO 2e
Airport Initiatives, such 
as APU Reduction6,600,000  $14,982,000 65,347
Flight Operations 
Initiatives8,100,000  $18,387,000 80,198
Operational  
Improvements 10,700,000 $24,289,000 105,941
Maintenance Activities   6,500,000 $14,755,000 64,356
Savings from Delta 
Connection Carriers 500,000 $1,135,000 4,950
Reducing Weight in  
Onboard Services400,000 $908,000 3,960
SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL  
 
Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) can produce more than 80% less life-cycle emissions than conventional jet fuel. As researchers are 
exploring the use of biofuels, Delta has developed a set of biofuel principles that will guide our decision-making and investments in this 
area. To be worthy of investment, we believe that any new SAF project must:  
Meet applicable technical and regulatory standards, including ASTM D1655  
Have a lower environmental impact (climate, water, air and biodiversity), including lower  
life-cycle carbon emissions than conventional petroleum-based jet fuel  
Ideally, come from feedstock that will not displace or compete with food crops  
Satisfy technical and functional criteria that allow biofuel to operate within the existing national fuel  
transport, storage and logistics infrastructure, as well as within individual airport and airline systems  
Have no adverse impact on aircraft engines  
Be reasonably cost-competitive with existing petroleum-based supply  
Advance the future availability of SAFs  
Align with Delta’s reputation and creditworthiness standards  
Delta engages with a range of producers and stakeholders to assess the technical, financial and regulatory challenges associated with 
SAF opportunities.  FUEL SAVINGS   
In 2019, a Fuel Board comprising senior leaders from each operating division was established to 
focus on promoting fuel-saving initiatives throughout the airline. A revamped Fuel Council was also 
launched to manage the specific initiatives. As a result of this focus from leadership and the efforts of 
the operating divisions, 33M gallons (or $75M) were saved in 2019, and 325,000 metric tons of CO 2 
emissions were avoided.  REDUCING AUXILIARY  
POWER UNIT (APU) RUNTIME:  
A CROSS-DIVISIONAL EFFORT
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 32 DELTA AIR LINES, INC.2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.33
FOR OUR PLANET
Delta invested $2 million to partner with Northwest 
Advanced Bio-Fuels (NWABF) to determine the feasibility 
of using a biofuel facility to produce sustainable aviation 
fuel and other biofuel products. NWABF’s project would 
utilize wood residue deposits and wood slash found on 
forest floors to produce the biofuel, which would qualify 
under an approved carbon-reducing pathway recognized by 
the American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM). If 
feasible, NWABF plans first delivery of the fuel, which could 
be used at operations in Seattle, Portland, San Francisco and 
Los Angeles, by the end of 2023.  
We also entered into an agreement with renewable chemicals 
and advanced biofuels company Gevo to purchase 10 million 
gallons per year of SAF. Powered by inedible, industrial corn 
products, or No. 2 corn, Gevo’s patented process separates 
the sugar from the proteins in the corn product. The sugars 
are then used to make the jet fuel, while the proteins are 
fed to livestock. We expect the fuel to be available for use 
between 2022 and 2023.
In 2016, the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) adopted CORSIA, a global 
plan to cap international emissions that will begin in 2021. However, since 2013 Delta 
has voluntarily capped its total carbon emissions at 2012 levels using offsets. Since then, 
we have purchased and retired more than 12 million carbon offsets from verified offset 
projects that have additional and permanent benefits. We have invested in a range of 
VCS (Verified Carbon Standard), ACR (American Carbon Registry), CAR (Climate Action 
Reserve) and Gold Standard projects, including renewable energy, reforestation and 
REDD+ (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation) initiatives that 
aim to prevent deforestation while ensuring that local communities benefit.   
The financial impacts from COVID affected our ability to maintain carbon neutral growth in 
2019. Nonetheless we are committed to becoming a carbon neutral company. This requires 
us to account for emissions across our business—both in the air and on the ground—and 
offset what we produce. The investments we make will create new projects and methods 
to reduce the airline industry’s carbon footprint, benefiting global communities and 
making it easier for other organizations to explore similar options to address their own 
carbon footprints.  CARBON REMOVAL
FIRST SAF FLIGHTS
In 2019, we operated our first SAF flights: the 
delivery of four Airbus 330-900neo from T oulouse, 
France, to Atlanta. In addition, we partnered with 
Airbus and Air BP to ensure that our next 20 A321 
deliveries from Mobile to Atlanta are carbon neutral 
by using an SAF blend and offsets. In 2019, we had 
the first nine of these aircrafts delivered. 
In total, these 13 flights used approximately 141,000 
gallons of SAF. The SAF used in the A321 deliveries 
produced about an 83% reduction in life-cycle 
emissions, compared with conventional jet fuel.
FOR OUR PLANET
TIST EAST AFRICA  
PLANTING TREES AND  
TRANSFORMING COMMUNITIES  
TIST East Africa supports subsistence farmers as they address 
poverty, land degradation, and climate change through planting 
trees. It aims to improve the lives of some of the poorest people 
in the world through capacity building, leadership development, 
information sharing and efforts at establishing gender equality.  
This is achieved through an innovative, community-led approach 
to tree planting. This ensures that local farmers are the architects 
and managers of the project on the ground, leading to benefits for 
themselves and their families, the land and the planet.
While other projects prevent carbon emissions, TIST farmers are 
planting new trees on degraded land that pulls CO 2 out of the 
atmosphere. TIST does not rely on deforestation projections,  
as it knows that all the carbon stored in TIST trees has  
been sequestered. 
The trees planted by TIST East Africa have reduced global 
emissions by 5.69 million tonnes of carbon dioxide—equivalent to 
taking 1,281,404 cars off the road for a year. TIST trees also reduce 
the temperature of the air by evaporating water through their 
leaves, and they reduce the soil temperature by shading  
the ground.  
By properly valuing and paying for the services the trees provide, 
climate finance in the form of carbon credits is channeled into the 
local economy: the farmers receive 70% of the profits from that 
revenue stream alongside prepayments that are allocated per living 
tree. Trees also provide benefits that go far beyond this payment— 
shelter, shade, sustenance, fertilizer, medicine and prevention of 
erosion, providing an audited value between $7 and $8 per  
tree planted.
34 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.Through our partnership 
with TIST, we have purchased  
more than 225,000 offsets toward our 
carbon-neutral growth commitment 
in addition to offsetting the emissions 
associated with travel to and from  
events like CES 2020 and our  
Investor Day.5.8  million  
tons of CO/two.sup sequestered 
by planting over 
19.8 million trees. 
50%  
of leadership is women.
41% 
of participants are women.  125  
people are working 
directly with TIST. 93,000+  
farmers received high-quality 
vocational training. More than 
69,000 farmers  were given 
instruction on HIV/AIDS, malaria, 
typhoid, sanitation, clean drinking 
water, and hygiene.  50,000 people 
at the household level were 
provided with access to 
improved cookstoves. $170+ million 
of veriﬁed economic beneﬁts 
to communities at the base of 
the world economy. As much as a 
400-600% 
increase in crop yields 
through training in 
improved agricultural practices. 44,292  
hectares of 
land restored .ECOSYSTEMSCLIMATE
LIVELIHOODSSUSTAINABLE 
ENTERPRISE SUSTAINABLE 
COMMODITIES 
INCLUSIVITYFAIR 
ECONOMIC 
RETURN IMPACT FROM ENTIRE TIST PROGRAM
FOR OUR PLANET
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 35 DELTA AIR LINES, INC.2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.36
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
FOR OUR PLANET
RETAIL  
In Q4 2019, we made it easier for customers to offset their flights by creating delta.com/co2 . Customers enter the details of 
their flight, and their mileage is calculated for them. They can then choose to fund one of the six carbon offset projects that  
we support.  
COMPANIES  
Delta has also partnered with corporate accounts to address emissions and has pilot carbon offset agreements in place  
with companies such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Columbia Sportswear, Merck and UCB, a global 
biopharmaceutical company. 
YOUTH ADVISORY BOARD ON SUSTAINABILITY  
It’s important to allow the next generation of consumers a seat at the table. That’s why we formed the inaugural Youth 
Advisory Board on Sustainability in 2019. The 16 members range from 12 to 18 years of age and represent a total of 11 U.S. 
states and American Samoa; they applied for a board role through Delta’s partnership with the Captain Planet Foundation. This 
diverse group includes environmental club leaders, social impact entrepreneurs and founders of multiple green nonprofits. 
They help guide and support our sustainability initiatives, particularly with respect to reducing waste in our operations, while 
enhancing their own personal growth and professional development.  
AIRPORTS   
We continue to work with airports on sustainability measures, including a collaboration with 12 other airlines on a work plan 
to reduce emissions at Seattle-T acoma International Airport. The work plan will explore the use of sustainable aviation fuels 
as well as a variety of other mechanisms that could contribute to carbon and air emission reductions, including technology, 
operations, infrastructure and future aircraft technology. 
INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT  
Our industry group, IATA’s Sustainability and Environment Advisory Council, advises the Board of Governors, the IATA Director 
General and other IATA bodies on environmental matters, including climate change policy, CORSIA and climate action, through 
technology, operations and market-based measures to help achieve climate targets in the short- and medium-term. Our ongoing 
engagement with IATA and Airlines for America (A4A) allows us to influence industry position and to stay abreast of industry climate 
change regulations (CORSIA) and climate change goals while also providing feedback on implementation strategies to regulatory 
bodies and other stakeholders. Delta has been involved by sitting on ICAO’s technical working group on CORSIA since its inclusion in 
the IATA delegation to provide input and to help shape the monitoring, reporting, verification and emissions units aspects of CORSIA. 
We have consistently engaged with the government (FAA, State Department), our industry group (IATA) and ICAO during the process 
leading up to the ICAO 39th Assembly. We plan to continue to engage with various stakeholders leading up to the implementation  
of CORSIA.  2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.37
METRICS: TRANSPARENCY & REPORTING  
Though climate change issues continue to influence the airline industry, Delta has already focused on carbon reduction, carbon removal and stakeholder 
engagement to reduce our impact on the environment. As result of these efforts, we have made progress on industry climate goals as we continue to maintain 
high reporting standards. Specifically we have:
Improved fuel efficiency by 1.07% per year since 2009, when measured on fuel per RTM (revenue ton mile)   
Capped our emissions at 2012 levels using carbon offsets   
Reduced our total emissions by 9% in 2019 compared with 2005 levels  
Improved Efficiency  
The IATA industry’s short-term goal is to improve fuel efficiency by an average of 1.5% each year, from 2009 to 2020. This is measured by CO 2 emissions per 
1,000 revenue tonne kilometers (RTK), or the amount of fuel needed to carry 1,000 revenue tonnes a distance of one kilometer. RTK is measured by multiplying 
the estimated weight of passengers and cargo by the distance it was flown. This efficiency goal accommodates business growth.   
This goal is measured only in jet fuel emissions: Delta mainline (Scope 1), Delta wholly-owned subsidiaries (Scope 1) and regional partners from whom 
Delta purchases fuel (Scope 3).  
Averaged 1.07% annual fuel efficiency improvement since 2009, which is below the IATA goal.  
However, over the past three years we have seen increased efficiency improvements, including 1.83% year-over-year fuel efficiency improvement in 2019, 
which was attributed largely to the new, more efficient aircraft.  
Although the load carried (measured in passenger and cargo revenue tonne kilometers) increased by 4.43% in 2019 relative to 2018,  
our fuel consumption only increased by 2.52%, resulting in an efficiency improvement of 1.83%, which exceeded the IATA goal of 1.5%.  
FOR OUR PLANET
1.15
1.10
1.05
1.00
0.95
0.90
0.85
0.80
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Delta Industry2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019Emissions per 1,000 RTKFUEL EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTFOR OUR PLANET
2009 2017 2018 2019
Fuel–Mainline and  
All Regional* (gallons)3,871,512,110 4,024,983,217 4,103,471,094 4,207,042,906  
Revenue Passenger Miles 
(RPM)189,427,180,000 217,789,957,000 225,279,795,000    237,727,342,000
Revenue T on Miles  
(RTM, Passenger + Cargo)23,136,681,962 26,155,482,716 27,002,486,783  28,199,926,688  
Revenue T onne Kilometers 
(RTK, Passenger + Cargo)  33,778,915,200 38,186,280,736 39,422,883,226 41,171,112,341
Available Seat Miles  
(ASM)  -- 255,362,985,823 263,365,005,000 275,379,370,000
Fuel Efficiency: Gallons/ 
100 T otal RTM16.73 15.39 15.20 14.92
*Delta Private Jets not included 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 38 DELTA AIR LINES, INC.FUEL EFFICIENCY DATADELTA AIR LINES, INC.39T o continuously track progress of our carbon reduction, avoidance and removal actions, we have calculated and verified our full emissions inventory since 
2005, in accordance with The Climate Registry’s General Reporting Protocol. Our verified reports are publicly available at www.cris4.org.   
Scope: All emissions under operational control  
 
Greenhouse gas emissions included: CO 2, CH 4, N 2O, HFCs, PFCs and SF 6  
 
The retirement (in a registry) of any carbon offsets for carbon-neutral growth since 2012 are also verified as part of this process  
 
Since 2005, we have reduced our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 9%, before the use of offsets 
 
Since 2013 we have voluntarily purchased and retired more than 14 million offsets, well ahead of the IATA goal of capping international emissions starting 
in 2021. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s financial impact, we were only able to purchase 40% of the offsets needed to achieve Delta’s 2019 
carbon-neutral growth goal. However, our goal to cap emissions at  2012 levels will be achieved. With our reduced flying schedule in 2020 and the 40% 
of offsets we purchased in 2019, our average for 2019 and 2020 will keep us at our goal of capping emissions at 2012 levels. We also remain committed to 
investing $1 billion over the next 10 years to become the first carbon neutral airline globally and will continue our investments once COVID-19 is solved for.
FOR OUR PLANET
EMISSIONS TREND   
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Oﬀsets EmissionsCO/two.supe Metric Tons (millions)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTEMISSIONS REDUCTION SINCE 2005
2005 Levels2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.40
FOR OUR PLANET
2005 2017 2018 2019
Jet Fuel - Mainline Delta  38,158,943 33,779,560 34,699,897 35,759,375
Jet Fuel - Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries 3,582,676   1,811,492 2,121,572 2,230,657
Fuel - Ground Support Equipment  133,194   106,294 99,951 97,992
Stationary Combust Facilities  55,593 78,632 68,306 68,039
Chemicals  3,469 1,304 1,192 1,959
Refrigerants  10,513 4,343 3,244 3,542
Emergency Generators/Fire Pumps  834 217 239  218
2005 2017 2018 2019
Electricity - Directly Billed Facilities  227,169 156,553 165,872 152,849
Electricity - Leased Facilities 193,249 107,057 107,588 104,407
Natural Gas - Leased Facilities     -- 32,664 33,267 33,583
2005 2017 2018 2019
Jet Fuel - Regional Partner Airlines  3,808,637 4,129,530 3,677,438 3,516,714EMISSIONS INVENTORY   
SCOPE 1—Direct Emissions from Owned or Controlled Sources in metric tons CO2e
SCOPE 2—Indirect Emissions from Purchased Electricity in metric tons CO2e
SCOPE 3—Indirect Emissions in Value Chain in metric tons CO2eFOR OUR PLANET
2005 2017 2018 2019
T otal Jet Fuel Emissions 45,550,256 39,720,583 40,498,906 41,506,746
Scope 1 TOTALS 41,945,222 35,781,844 36,994,401 38,161,781
Scope 2 TOTALS 420,418 296,274 306,727 290,839
Scope 3 TOTALS  3,808,637 4,129,530 3,677,438 3,516,714
T otal Verified Gross Emissions 46,174,277  40,207,647 40,978,566 41,969,334
Carbon Offsets Purchased  -- 2,524,277  3,293,160 1,706,500
T otal Verified Net Emissions 46,174,277 37,683,370 37,685,405 40,060,531*EMISSIONS INVENTORY   
SUMMARY—in metric tons CO2e
In 2019, Delta’s total emissions were 41.9 million metric tons of CO 2e, a 2.4% increase from 2018. Despite our reductions 
since 2005, Delta’s absolute emissions have trended upward since 2012 due to a 19% increase in revenue ton miles 
flown. Due to COVID-19’s impact, carbon-neutral in growth 2019 was not achieved. However we expect the cumulative 
emissions from FY19/20 to be lower than our internal emissions cap level of 2012 levels because of what was nearly a 
global freeze on airline travel. 
We remain committed to meeting the industry’s 2050 target: a 50% reduction in emissions relative to a 2005 baseline. 
We will continue to move forward on our path toward carbon neutrality through our $1 billion commitment.  
41 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.*2019 emissions are still undergoing third-party verification. We will retire some offsets toward our 2019 flights, but we expect the cumulative 
emissions from FY19/20 to be lower than our internal emissions cap level (at 2012 levels) because of what was nearly a global freeze on airline travel. 
Verification of 2019 emissions data is still underway.2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
KEEP CLIMBING...
 
THE DELTA DIFFERENCE 43
DIVERSITY, INCLUSION & EQUITY  45
PUTTING OUR PEOPLE FIRST  48
Employee Benefits 50
Future Employees 54
Partners with Shared Values 55
Supplier Diversity  56IN THIS CHAPTERFOR OUR PEOPLE
422019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.43Culture  
The way our people care for each other and  
our customers defines Delta’s culture. 
 
The Delta Difference  
Since 1929, Delta people have worked diligently to build our record for delivering safe, 
high-quality service and for acting with honesty, integrity, respect, perseverance and 
servant leadership in all we do. We are proud of this legacy, as well as our well-earned 
reputation for excellence and integrity.
T o give everyday guidance to our employees and leadership, we rely on three guides for 
our culture: 
Rules of the Road, is our foundation and outlines core values, principles and 
expectations of modeling leadership at every level of the company.  
The Way We Fly , outlines our basic expectations of each other as employees. 
 
Delta’s Code of Ethics and Business defines how we conduct business around the 
world and helps employees better understand their role in protecting Delta’s  
values, culture and reputation. 
  
FOR OUR PEOPLE
2019 EMPLOYEE AWARDS
American Heart Association Workplace Health 
Achievement Index—Gold Recognition  
Companies That Care Honor Roll 2019  
Comparably Best Leadership T eams 
Comparably T op CEOs for Diversity 
Comparably T op CEOs for Women 
Disability Equality Index Best Places to Work 2019  
Forbes—America’s Best Employers for New Graduates 
(Rank 77)  
Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work for 2019  
Fortune and Great Place to Work: Best Workplaces for 
Diversity 2019  
Fortune and Great Place to Work: Best Workplaces for
Women 2019  
Fortune and Great Place to Work: Best Workplaces for 
Millennials 2019  
Great Place to Work Certified Company 2019–2020  
Indeed.com T op Rated Workplaces: 50 Best  
Indeed.com T op Rated Workplaces: Best by Veterans  
National Business Group on Health—Best Employers for 
Healthy Lifestyles—Gold Award  
Workforce 100 List for HR Excellence 2019  
HireVue Candidate Experience Award 2019  We’re often asked,  
‘What sets Delta apart?’  
And the answer is simple:  
OUR PEOPLE. 
 
In 2019, for the third straight year, Delta 
landed on Fortune’s 100 Best 
Companies to Work For list, 
the only airline 
to do so.  
Delta consistently ranks on national lists for  
both employee engagement and customer loyalty.  
For the third straight year, Delta landed on Fortune’s 100 Best 
Companies to Work For list, the only airline to do so.2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.44
FOR OUR PEOPLE
Delta’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is a nonnegotiable policy critical 
to maintaining Delta’s high level of performance. It also helps our business 
partners understand how we conduct business, and it provides key compliance 
policies that apply to interactions around the world.   
All Delta employees must read, understand and follow Delta’s Code of Ethics 
and Business Conduct, as well as report violations or suspected violations, 
which allows Delta to address issues as they arise. Employees are encouraged 
to report suspected violations to their supervisor or other manager; their 
HR representative or the Law Department; or through DeltaHelpLine.com or 
through our 24/7 toll-free helpline by calling 1-800-253-7879 within the U.S. 
and Canada.  
Reports to the Helpline are answered discreetly and confidentially by an 
independent company that helps us respond to concerns, including, if 
deemed appropriate, an investigation and corrective action. Delta does not 
tolerate retaliation of any kind for raising concerns or making a report in good 
faith about a safety, ethics or compliance issue. Delta will take appropriate 
disciplinary action, up to and including termination, against individuals who 
retaliate. In 2019, we received 944 calls to the helpline. 
Our long history of building and nurturing our culture has earned us deep 
emotional connections with each other. We care for these connections through 
ongoing and active listening, including formal mechanisms such as ongoing 
employee engagement surveys and a variety of informal measures. And when 
we are successful, we share our success with the people who make it possible.
Last year, we delivered live training sessions to our 
colleagues globally on topics including anti-trust, 
conflicts of interest, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, 
insider trading, and trade sanctions and restrictions.  
During 2019, 20,141 employees and contractors 
completed the Delta Code of Ethics and Business 
Conduct online course, a 99.02% completion rate for 
the relevant population. This is a 2% improvement 
from 2018, but still falls approximately 0.8% short of 
our 2020 goal of 100%. Culture of Integrity in Action
We also continued to expand the variety and reach of  
Ethics and Compliance program communications by:  
Publishing featured articles on our internal, employee-focused intranet 
Distributing printed materials throughout the company  
Building a central, online home for employees to access policies 
and compliance information  
Creating videos by Delta officers who discuss what compliance means to their business 
units for use in live and online trainings  
Providing direct communications to senior leaders to encourage participation in training 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.45
FOR OUR PEOPLE
A More Inclusive Workplace 
As a global airline, we are in the business of bringing people together. 
And to be able to unite the world, we believe that our company must 
reflect the diversity of the world and serve as a model of inclusiveness. 
With that goal in mind, Delta’s diversity and inclusion strategy 
focuses on three strategic imperatives: seeking diversity, promoting 
inclusion and driving accountability. The strategy is supported and 
measured by Delta Vision 2020, a three-year plan to increase diversity, 
particularly in leadership roles. Delta Vision 2020 is supported by 
Delta’s Diversity & Inclusion Council, a senior cross-divisional group 
that meets regularly to evaluate corporate and divisional metrics, 
programs and proposals that align with the company’s strategic 
imperatives. The Personnel & Compensation Committee oversees the 
company’s progress with this strategy and has incorporated a diversity 
update as a standing meeting agenda item.  
 
 Gender Equality 
Creating an inclusive environment in a predominantly male industry 
means advocating for and championing women. Delta works to 
dismantle barriers to career entry and advancement, with 25 female 
leaders in officer positions. Conversations about women in the 
workplace are encouraged through our Business Resource Group 
(BRG), SHE, which creates a forum for women and allies to connect and 
guide major business decisions. Delta remains committed to pay parity 
in both administrative and front-line roles, but we recognize that there 
is more work to be done.  DIVERSITY , INCLUSION & EQUITY:  
RESPECT THE WORLD, REFLECT THE WORLD
Diversity & Inclusion Training  
Promoting inclusion through education and training is a 
priority for us. We want to strengthen Delta’s inclusive culture 
by helping our employees build greater self-awareness to 
better respond to one another and to our customers. In 2019, 
we designed and launched diversity and inclusion education 
training for employees.  
Data regarding sexual assaults on flights are elusive because no clearinghouse for data exists and the figures that are collected are not a robust 
representation of reality. In an effort to improve data collection, share best practices and empower flight crews to deal with misconduct, the U.S. Department 
of T ransportation created the National In-Flight Sexual Misconduct T ask Force in late 2018. The T ask Force allows members to share best practices in training, 
reporting and data collection around incidents of sexual misconduct, while also reviewing current practices, protocols and requirements of U.S. airlines in 
responding to and reporting allegations of sexual misconduct by passengers on board aircraft. In 2019, Delta’s Senior Vice President—In-Flight Service, 
Allison Ausband, was named to the task force as the representative for airlines. Ausband leads a team of 26,000+ flight attendants, supervisory and support 
personnel around the globe, as well as Delta’s onboard global food and beverage operation. Ausband is also executive sponsor for Delta’s anti-human 
trafficking program. Delta is committed to serving women in the wider community through our fight against human trafficking, a crime which largely exploits 
women and children. THE NATIONAL IN-FLIGHT SEXUAL MISCONDUCT TASK FORCE  2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.46
ATTRITION 
BY AGEEMPLOYEES
BY RACEEMPLOYEES
BY GENDER
NEW HIRES
BY AGENEW HIRES
BY GENDER
EMPLOYEES
BY REGIONOPERATION
DIVISIONATTRITION 
BY GENDER
FOR OUR PEOPLE
WORKFORCE PROFILE
A Closer Look at Delta People
White    59% 
African American/Black   21% 
Hispanic     10% 
Asian/Pacific Islander    7% 
T wo or More Races     2% 
Native Hawaiian*      1% 
American Indian / Alaskan*   0% 
United States                 96.7% 
Asia-Pacific                    1.4% 
Latin America & Caribbean**     1%  
Europe, Middle East & Africa     .5% 
Canada***                                      .4%  Airport Customer Service  32% 
In-Flight Service                 25.4% 
Flight Operations                  15.3% 
T echnical Operations               12.3% 
Corporate                   6.7% 
Reservations                    6.1% 
Cargo                     2.1% Male    53% 
Female    47% Male                  58.4% 
Female                  41.6% 
<30                 44.7% 
30–39                 28.7% 
40–49                  16.2% 
50–59                   8.8% 
60+                    1.5% <30                     24% 
30–39                   18.6% 
40–49                    11.2% 
50–59                    12.1% 
60+                   33.9% 
*New for 2019 **New grouping for 2019—formerly just LA ***New grouping for 2019—formerly Canada and CaribbeanMale    59% 
Female    41% 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.47
FOR OUR PEOPLE
Strengthening our diversity  
through a robust pipeline 
 
T o support career advancement, Delta hosts professional development 
summits in partnership with our BRGs and external professional 
organizations. In 2019, we hosted a Latinx summit, which provided a 
forum to network, share feedback and create plans to increase Latinx 
employee representation at every level of the company.  
Delta extends its values of diversity and inclusion to our supply chain. 
The diversity clause in our supplier code requires contractors to 
acknowledge Delta’s commitment to enhancing business opportunities 
for small, minority, women, veteran and LGBTQ+-owned businesses 
and those owned by people with disabilities as first and second tier 
suppliers, so long as they are competitive on price, quality and service.   
T o grow the diversity of Delta’s leadership pipeline, we strive to 
provide development programs for the most promising early and 
mid-career leaders with strong gender and ethnic diversity. We reach 
a broad range of diverse groups through sponsorships, professional 
development and early-career programs. Our early outreach to minority 
groups aims to break down barriers to the industry and expose 
students to relatable and inspiring role models. For example, Delta’s 
partnership with the Organization of Black Aviation Professionals’ 
(OBAP) ACE Academy and Solo Flight programs introduce high 
school students of color to careers in aviation. Over the past 5 
years, Delta’s all-female WING flight, standing for Women Inspiring 
our Next Generation, has introduced over 600 girls ages 12 to 18 
to aviation careers, including the 100 that participated in our 2019 
program. Delta also sponsored and participated in Pride events across 
the world, including World Pride in New York City, celebrating the 
50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots. In 2019, more than  
2,000 employees walked in local PRIDE parades in support of  
LGBTQ+ communities.  
 
SUPPORTING DIVERSE-OWNED BUSINESSES 
In 2019, Delta announced a new partnership with Brown Estate, the 
first and only Black-owned estate winery in California’s Napa Valley. 
The innovative idea to partner with Brown Estate started with BOLD, 
Delta’s business resource group for the Black community. Partnering 
with innovative, diverse suppliers from certified small-, minority- and 
women-owned businesses like Brown Estate is fundamental to Delta’s 
strategy. Seeking employee perspectives and leveraging unique ideas 
contributes greatly to creating the highest quality experience for 
our customers. LEADING DIVERSITY  
AMONG NYSE-COMPANIES  
In 2019, Delta CEO Ed Bastian was appointed as one of  
15 founding member CEOs of the New York Stock Exchange 
Board Advisory Council, which is aimed at advancing diversity in 
the workplace by using members’ personal networks to connect 
candidates with companies seeking boardroom leadership. Our CEO 
has a long-standing personal commitment to cultivating diversity in 
the workplace, including signing on to the CEO Action for Diversity 
and Inclusion in 2017. His appointment to the Advisory Council will 
help companies continue to ensure people feel welcomed, included 
and empowered from the top down.  
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.48
FOR OUR PEOPLE
W e believe Delta’s most important competitive advantage is our dedicated employees, who are the face of our brand. Effectively attracting, engaging, 
developing, retaining and rewarding our people is a priority of Delta and its Board of Directors. In February 2020, the Board updated the Personnel & 
Compensation Committee’s charter to memorialize the Committee’s long-standing role in oversight of the policies and strategies relating to human 
capital management. PUTTING OUR   
PEOPLE FIRST
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Personnel & Compensation 
Committee has oversight for all matters 
related to human capital management 
including, diversity & inclusion, talent 
attraction & retention, succession 
planning, compensation and benefits. 
The Personnel & Compensation consults 
with an independent consultant and 
management in the development and 
review of the company’s executive 
compensation program and actively 
engages with management in regular 
review of succession planning and talent 
development, including the diversity & 
inclusion strategy.The Audit Committee oversees all 
processes and procedures related to 
Delta’s Code of Ethics and Business 
Conduct. It regularly reviews reports 
from Delta’s ethics and compliance 
team on adherence to these policies, 
including policies that relate to human 
capital matters. It also regularly receives 
reports from Delta’s corporate audit 
team on complaints, allegations and 
incidents related to sexual and other 
forms of harassment and workplace 
discrimination.Under the guidance of Delta’s Chief 
People Officer, the company’s human 
resources team is responsible 
for the day-to-day development 
and implementation of all human 
capital management programs that 
supports the company’s culture and 
its focus on its people.PERSONNEL  
& COMPENSATION
COMMITTEE
CHIEF
PEOPLE  
OFFICERAUDIT
COMMITTEEHUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.49
FOR OUR PEOPLE
Delta sponsors 401(k) plans for all 
employees. Active eligible U.S. employees 
can enroll immediately and newly 
hired employees are automatically 
enrolled. In the primary plan, Delta 
makes an automatic contribution equal 
to 3% of eligible earnings. In addition, 
Delta matches 100% of the first 6% 
of eligible earnings contributed to the 
plan. Employees can make pre-tax, Roth 
401(k), or after-tax contributions or a 
combination of the three. The record 
keeping for the Delta 401(k) plans is 
provided by Fidelity. Edelman Financial 
Engines offers independent, objective 
investment advice and management 
advisory services with Online Advice or 
the Professional Management program.Executive compensation is aligned with 
our compensation philosophy for all Delta 
employees, but is also dependent on the 
airline’s performance and can be limited 
if our employees do not receive a payout 
under our profit-sharing program. The 
Personnel & Compensation Committee 
of the Board of Directors sets evaluation 
criteria and compensation for the CEO 
and reviews and approves compensation 
for other officers. The Committee also 
produces an annual report on executive 
compensation for inclusion in Delta’s 
proxy statement, in accordance with SEC 
rules and regulations.The Shared Rewards program helps 
incentivize employees to deliver safe,  
on-time, best-in-class travel to our 
customers. Eligible employees can 
earn a monthly cash bonus based on 
achieving the specific operational goals 
in the categories of baggage handling, 
completion factor, on-time arrivals and 
domestic Net Promoter Score. Employees 
earn $25 for meeting or exceeding one 
goal, $50 for two, $75 for three and $100 
for all four, with a maximum payout of 
$1,200 per year for U.S.-based employees. 
Eligible international employees 
participate in Shared Rewards with target 
payout values established for  
each country. Scale employees, who include pilots, 
flight attendants, maintenance 
technicians, customer service and 
reservation agents, baggage handlers and 
others, are paid an hourly wage. Delta’s 
leadership position in the industry allows 
us to pay scale employees competitively 
and reward excellent performance.   
We offer pay premiums based on job 
function and work rules that provide a 
balance of flexibility, productivity and 
quality of work life.For all employees, competitive base pay 
is one piece of a larger compensation 
pie that includes added rewards and 
benefits. Our profit-sharing program has 
been world leading and recognizes our 
employees’ contributions in meeting 
Delta’s financial targets.   
For the past six years in a row we’ve paid 
out more than $1 billion annually through 
the program. This plan, combined with 
highly competitive base pay and monthly 
Shared Rewards bonuses for meeting 
operational targets, paid an average 
bonus of 14.5% over the last five years.Our people can further share in our 
financial success through an Employee 
Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). This 
plan allows employees to use payroll 
deductions to purchase Delta stock.  COMPENSATION
Delta employees are grouped into two categories for compensation purposes: scale and merit 
employees. The latter includes a broad mix of leaders and individual contributors who are paid a salary. 
We track pay for merit employees by using data to benchmark their compensation relative to their 
peers at Delta and across multiple industries. Merit employees’ job performance is evaluated based on 
skill, experience, innovation, effort and leadership. Benefits are competitive and flexible and include 
paid time off, retirement savings and comprehensive health care coverage.
RETIREMENT EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION SHARED REWARDSBASE PAY PROFIT SHARING EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.50
FOR OUR PEOPLE
HEALTH BENEFITS 
 
Preventative Care/Delta Health Direct Program 
In addition to comprehensive health care coverage, Delta offers dental, 
vision and flexible spending account benefits to eligible employees. T o 
promote disease prevention, employees enrolled in a Delta Account-Based 
Healthcare Plan are covered at 100% for preventive care services based on 
the recommendations of the U.S. Preventive Services T ask  
Force (USPSTF).  
Beyond USPSTF recommendations, employees covered by Delta’s medical 
plans receive other preventive services such as travel immunizations and 
assistance with health care questions and needs through the Delta Health 
Direct program. 
 
Delta Employee Assistance Program 
T o support employees and their household members through issues that 
impact their ability to live and work well, Delta offers a robust Employee 
Assistance Program. EAP services include 24/7 telephonic support, seven 
confidential counseling sessions per issue per year, unlimited access 
to onsite mental health coaches at Delta’s largest locations, financial 
consultations (budgeting, savings and credit cards), legal consultations 
(estate planning and certain family issues) and daily life assistance 
(coordinating caregiving needs) all at no additional cost to employee or 
household member.  
In addition, Delta employees and their household members ages 18+ 
can also access confidential emotional support through real-time coach 
chatting, guided content and video therapy. 
 
Delta Health Rewards 
Through Delta Health Rewards, a voluntary, incentive-based wellness 
program, we help U.S. employees and their spouses reach health goals. 
Participants earn rewards dollars by completing specific health actions 
such as undergoing an annual physical exam, completing an online health 
assessment and refraining from the use of tobacco products. Rewards 
dollars are put into employee health reimbursement accounts (HRAs) 
or health savings accounts (HSAs) each year and can be used to pay for 
eligible medical expenses.   
 
 
Maternity Policy 
U.S.-based expectant mothers in all ground and flight attendant positions, 
including Ready Reserve and Flex @ Home, receive a minimum of six 
weeks at 100% pay for maternity leave. In addition, all mothers and fathers 
may take a 30-day unpaid bonding leave following the birth, adoption, 
guardianship or fostering of a child once paid maternity leave (if applicable) 
and/or other Family Medical Leave Act benefits have been exhausted.  Travel and Work Health 
To encourage the health of all Delta employees, numerous employee 
medical surveillance programs, screenings and safety trainings are 
conducted at Delta airport stations. Programs included:  
Health awareness programs for employees and customers 
We have implemented WHO International Health 
Regulation pertaining to Lifetime Yellow Fever vaccination 
status while maintaining optional 10-year revaccination 
benefit at the employee’s option.  
We maintain crew and other employee business traveler 
awareness around Zika risk and prevention strategies.  
We lead with the placement of a CPR automated training 
kiosk at Gate A11 of Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson International 
Airport. Its aim is to engage and educate passengers on 
CPR techniques in less than 15 minutes.  
Travel health consultation and company-paid vaccine 
coverage, anti-malaria medication and insect repellent 
Our employees travel to all parts of the world, which can 
occasionally expose them to other disease outbreaks and  
health risks. T o address these challenges, we provide our 
employees on Delta business travel with travel health 
consultation, company-paid vaccine coverage, anti-malaria 
medication and insect repellent.   
Delta’s medical plans also provide travel vaccine 
coverage for global travel by employees and covered 
family members. Separate Delta internal programs 
target prevention of illness among employees who 
travel internationally on company business, especially to 
developing countries with risks of malaria, yellow fever, 
dengue, chikungunya, Zika, food/waterborne illness and 
other diseases that may occur as outbreaks. Employee 
education focuses on promoting awareness about the 
use of personal protection measures, early symptom 
recognition, a 24/7 malaria hotline and prompt  
medical treatment.  
Delta also provides top-tier global medical assistance to 
help employees who become ill or injured while traveling 
internationally on company business. Through telephone 
conversations available 24/7, employees can be referred 
for a hotel physician visit, a doctor’s office appointment 
or an emergency room visit. Case management continues 
until the ill employee can travel back home. In rare 
circumstances, we can dispatch an air ambulance staffed 
with a highly skilled transport team of health  
care professionals.  2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.51
FOR OUR PEOPLE
Freedom of Association  
Delta respects all employees’ legal rights, including the rights to free 
association and collective bargaining. This includes the right to decide 
whether to be represented by a union or to choose to remain union-free. 
Our U.S.-based employees are covered by the Railway Labor Act (RLA), 
the federal law governing labor relations between air carriers and their 
employees. Under the RLA, employees have the right to decide whether 
they wish to be represented by a union or to reject union representation.  
As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 91,000 full-time equivalent 
employees, approximately 16% of whom were represented by unions. 
 
 
 
 Flexible Employment 
Ready Reserve 
Delta supports flexible employment arrangements. Ready Reserve 
employees are eligible to work fewer weekly hours; are paid on the same 
pay scale as full-time customer service agents; and receive profit sharing, 
Shared Rewards, 401(k) savings, travel privileges and time-off benefits. In 
most locations, Ready Reserve employees are not eligible to participate in 
health and welfare plans. 
 Reservation Sales Work @ Home 
The Reservation Sales and Customer Care Work @ Home program allows 
employees to receive the similar benefits as full-time employees without 
the time and expense of traveling between home and the engagement call 
center. Employees must live within a three-hour drive of the center to  
be eligible. There is a pay differential that is an industry best practice and as 
we benchmark with other companies, our W@H program is one of the best 
in the industry.
UNION REPRESENTATION
13,328
DELTA PILOTS443
DELTA FLIGHT  
SUPERINTENDENTS 
LISTENING AND LEARNING:   
PERFORMANCE REVIEWS  
Every year, merit employees, who make up 11% of our workforce, 
participate in a performance management process that helps support 
their career development goals. Career development and growth for 
merit employees is focused around four key activities:  
Performance Planning 
Performance Planning through which employees create 
performance objectives aligned to the goals of their manager, 
division and the overall corporation.  
Individual Development Plans 
Individual Development Plans are utilized by employees and 
managers to plan and track focused developmental activities in 
identified skills or behaviors.  
Ongoing Check-In Conversations 
Ongoing Check-In Conversations occur throughout the year 
between employees and their managers on the progress being 
made toward goals and employees’ development.  
Year-End Conversations 
Year-End Conversations are a final check-in to review an employee’s 
progress over the year toward goals and to ensure individual 
performance is aligned with behaviors in Delta’s Rules of the Road.  
Beyond formal performance management, feedback and coaching 
conversations occur regularly to ensure employees have the guidance and 
information they need to continue to grow.   2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.52
FOR OUR PEOPLE
General Trainings:  
 Compliance, New Hire, Mentoring/Coaching 
We provide a range of talent development opportunities, including a broad 
range of modern development experiences, new leader training, mandatory 
compliance training, new hire cultural onboarding and general professional 
development. These development experiences are created for and by our 
own employees. We support employees with a formal mentoring program for 
employees at all levels and informal coaching, mentoring and performance 
support as needed. Our online learning database allows employees to view all 
resources that Delta offers in one place, from webinars to in-person workshops. 
 
Foundational Leadership Program  
In 2019, we introduced a refreshed version of our Foundational Leadership 
Program for new leaders at Delta. This program builds leaders’ skills, drawing 
on Delta’s Leadership Behaviors as a foundation. It also provides leaders 
with the resources needed to guide their teams in the achievement of our 
company mission.      
 
 
SURVEYS & ENGAGEMENT 
A primary way we measure employee satisfaction is through 
a company-wide employee survey. Nearly 37,000 Delta 
employees—41%—participated in the 2019 Employee Survey. 
Of the total number of participants, 82% of employees gave 
Delta a positive rating. 
Beyond this survey, Delta employees also are heard through 
division-specific engagement surveys provided annually 
on an employee’s hire date and division-specific employee 
engagement groups. In addition, the Delta Board Council 
consists of a representative from every major noncontract 
operating division and ensures that employee voices are 
heard at the Board of Directors level. Each major noncontract 
operating division also has a formalized Employee Involvement 
Group (EIG) that partners with Delta leaders to make Delta 
better for employees and customers. Our BRGs and our 
internal social media platform SkyHub are also important 
engagement channels for employees and leaders. 
T raining / Career Development 
An important way we retain the brightest talent is by providing opportunities to grow within Delta. We continue to modernize our human resources tools and 
technology in order to streamline and enhance platforms that improve the employee experience.   
Airport
Customer
Service
CargoFlight
Operations
T echnical
OperationsIn-Flight
Service
CorporateReservations
 
Merit
Hours9.89 9.71 8.13 21.77 9.07 5.52 28.70
Scale
Hours4.63 14.73 89.16 50.39 26.42 5.85 73.40TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE BY DIVISION2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.53
Delta’s employee-led groups contribute to a more 
inclusive and engaged climate across the organization’s 
global footprint. Our Business Resource Groups 
(BRGs) and four employee involvement groups 
provide professional development, drive employee and 
community engagement, and serve as a source for new 
and innovative business solutions. The growth and 
influence of BRGs has been impressive and impactful in 
creating a more inclusive and engaged culture. In 2019, 
more than 20,000 employees were members of BRGs.  
BRGs focus on professional development and employee 
engagement and are a source for new and innovative 
business solutions. These groups ensure that a diverse 
and inclusive voice remains an intrinsic component of 
the decision-making process. They also demonstrate 
Delta’s shared values of treating one another with 
dignity and respect.  SAFETY 
ON THE GROUND
FOR OUR PEOPLE
EMPLOYEES 
SUPPORTING
EMPLOYEES
655  
EMPLOYEES
RECEIVED  
SCHOLARSHIPS$3.7M  
IN GRANTS
TO EMPLOYEES$1.85M  
AWARDED IN
SCHOLARSHIPSDelta employees also care deeply for one another, as seen through the work of 
two internal funds created by employees for employees. The Delta Employee & 
Retiree Care Fund supports individuals who suffer from severe financial hardship 
resulting from unforeseen and unavoidable crises such as natural disasters. This 
fund distributed $3.7 million in grants to employees for hardships and disaster 
relief in 2019. The Delta Scholarship Fund helps employees and eligible family 
members achieve their dreams of furthering their education. The Fund has 
awarded more than $10 million in scholarships since it launched in 2008, 
and 655 employees and dependents received scholarships worth $1.85 million 
for the 2019–2020 school year. Delta Employee & Retiree Care FundBusiness Resource Groups
Focus on professional development, employee engagement and source for new and innovative business solutions
ABLE (Persons with Disabilities)
FUSION (Asian/Paciﬁc)
SHE (Women)
WORKING FAMILIES
BOLD (Black community)GENGAGE (Multigenerational)
VETERANS
EQUAL (LGBTQ+)
GREEN UP (Sustainability)
ADELANTE (Hispanic/Latinx)
Employee Support Groups
Employees supporting one another 
through shared experiencesEmployee Involvement Groups
AIRPORT CUSTOMER SERVICE/CARGO
IN-FLIGHT SERVICE
RESERVATION SALES & CUSTOMER CARE
TECHNICAL OPERATIONSWRENCHED HEARTS (Grieving parents)
HOPE THRIVES (Cancer support)
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.54New Hiring Experience  
In 2019, our talent acquisition team launched a new hiring experience with 
improved search capabilities, a streamlined application process, and better, 
more frequent communications for internal and external candidates. We 
recognize that many of our candidates are also our customers and the 
process to apply for a job at Delta should evoke the same customer care that 
is experienced when traveling with us. The new experience can be viewed 
at delta.com/careers. T o strengthen diversity, we have shifted our recruiting 
strategy to build stronger partnerships with local and regional diverse 
professional organizations. We are also developing strategies to leverage BRGs 
as talent ambassadors, as well as increasing the number of diverse candidates 
in final interview slates. It is equally important to increase internal mobility 
for existing diverse employees. T o do so, we are working with leaders and 
divisional functions to strengthen the pipeline of employees considered for 
promotions, lateral moves and professional development.  
FOR OUR PEOPLE
Human Capital Development Strategy 
T o continue our tradition of excellence, Delta follows a human 
capital development strategy that is rooted in our shared values of 
honesty, integrity, respect, perseverance and servant leadership. We 
hire people steeped in these values and reinforce them through an 
experiential onboarding process, continuous development and coaching 
opportunities, recognition for hard work and an industry-leading 
compensation philosophy. Additionally, Delta’s Four Essential Behaviors 
(Unlock Potential, Go Beyond, Connect, Chart the Course) are used to 
select, develop and coach employees who reflect our transparent and 
ongoing approach to employee development.   
We continue to update our strategies to keep pace with workplace 
trends. T oday’s job seekers want careers that are dynamic, with the 
opportunity to develop and take on new roles over time. With our goal of 
becoming one of the top service brands in any industry, we need the top 
talent to match.  
Industry dynamics also drive recruitment efforts. In 2019, we were 
focused on attracting talent to bolster our growing operation— 
especially pilots and aircraft maintenance technicians. Additionally, we 
placed increased emphasis on building our employer brand within the 
Information T echnology and Analytics community to drive increased 
innovation in our operation and drive a positive customer experience.   
 
 
 
  
 
A MORE DIVERSE STEM FUTURE 
Our innovative culture will continue to be fueled by diverse STEM talent 
and an equitable work environment. We want to build a hiring pipeline for 
women in STEM and have partnered with Society of Women Engineers and 
Girls Who Code to support STEM education among the next generation. 
Strategic partnerships like this not only promote talent growth for Delta, 
but also help us help improve systemic underrepresentation issues across 
industries and further connect us with the communities we serve.   
FUTURE  EMPLOYEES2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.55
 
FOR OUR PEOPLE
Partnership with Training Programs  
 Preparing aspiring aviation professionals to take the helm from retiring 
employees is a priority. We have partnerships with more than  
47 maintenance training programs across the U.S. to help identify, 
mentor and source the next generation of aviation maintenance 
technicians. Through these partnerships, we offered tours, job shadows 
and career guidance for the schools, as well as training opportunities for 
instructors. Where possible, we donated serviceable parts, engines and 
airframes to give students even more real-world maintenance experience 
working with jet aircraft components. In 2019, The Delta Air Lines 
Foundation issued a $25,000 grant to the San Diego Miramar College 
to support its Aviation Maintenance T echnician training program. The 
grants will allow the programs to enhance their curriculum development, 
projects and material support, increasing students’ awareness, 
knowledge and skills of avionics, electrical and composite structures.   
Commitment to Veterans  
Delta has long been committed 
to hiring veterans and reservists, 
employing over 12,000 veterans.   
Delta views the partners in its supply chain as an extension of the company, 
which is why our Supply Chain Management (SCM) professionals follow 
rigorous internal material standards for sourcing, procurement and selection 
of our suppliers and business partners. There are many links in our supply 
chain beyond procurement. These include logistics, distribution, materials 
management and transportation. 
Delta’s SCM organization has multiple units that partner with business 
divisions to formulate business and sourcing strategies to deliver  
sustainable results to the company. This program aims to ensure a  
continuous supply of cost-competitive, quality goods and services that  
meet responsibility requirements.  
 
We seek Supply Chain partners that share our values of:  
Integrity and Ethical Behavior  Fact-Based Decision-Making 
Challenging the Status Quo   Enhancing Shareholder Value 
Diversity     Teamwork 
Continuous Improvement  Innovation 
Excellence in Performance 
Respect for People and the  
Value They Bring 
We also recognize that our shared future is dependent upon our ability to 
protect the earth and our resources. We actively engage with NGOs, industry 
peers and other stakeholders to develop our strategic sourcing process to 
best address ESG issues within our supply chain. This includes a due-diligence 
policy to screen all key suppliers for potential environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) risk factors. As part of our Procurement Policy, we seek to 
understand and mitigate supplier risk when making sourcing decisions.  
 A key part of this policy includes assessing the following ESG risk factors: 
Environmental  
Energy Use/Efficiency   Environmental Breaches 
Waste Reduction    Environmental Emissions 
Deployment of Renewables   Carbon Footprint 
Hazardous Waste 
Social   
Lost Injury Days    Community Investment   
Diversity Issues    Employee Labor Practices   
Absence Rate/Turnover   Customer Perception   
Corporate Governance   Reporting & Transparency   
Audit Processes    Notices of Violation   
Training & Development   Performance Management   
Shareholder Interests   Anti-Corruption Practices  
Employee/Supplier/ 
Partner Health & Safety
A Supplier Code of Conduct is distributed to all vendors, who are required 
to read and agree to comply with all requirements. We also offer a 
Supplier Performance Management program to further ensure continuous 
improvement. The program includes the use of monthly performance 
scorecards and periodic business reviews that may include discussions of 
developing and maintaining sustainable business processes. In 2019 critical 
suppliers participated in business reviews and scorecarding activities. We 
believe taking ESG factors into account when we select suppliers adds 
shareholder value by reducing risks. We believe it also addresses customer 
desires to do business with a company that values ethical business practices. 
  Partners with Shared Values
In 2019, job-seeker site indeed.com  
again recognized Delta as a top 
workplace for veterans. Delta was 
an early adopter of the Veteran Jobs 
Mission’s goal to hire 1 million veterans 
and takes a multipronged approach 
of community outreach and strategic 
partnerships to hire veterans.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.56
FOR OUR PEOPLE
 
SUPPLIER  DIVERSITY & INCLUSION  
Our commitment to diversity extends beyond our internal hiring process into our supply 
chain, ensuring that our supplier base reflects the diversity of our customers. We have made 
a commitment to becoming a member of the Billion Dollar Roundtable, an exclusive group of 
corporate brands that spend a minimum of $1 billion annually with certified diverse-owned 
businesses. T o do this, we set annual spend targets with minority- and women-owned 
businesses, and we measure progress toward achieving these targets. 
In 2019, we spent $1.71 billion with small and certified minority, veteran, LGBTQ+ and women-
owned businesses, a 24% increase over 2018. We’ve achieved this high level by identifying 
viable, diverse companies and coaching them on how to successfully compete for Delta business. 
We encourage our Tier I suppliers to build similar relationships with diverse businesses. 
The Supplier Development Academy, a recent Delta initiative, illustrates our commitment  
to diversity: 
The Supplier Development Academy is a 12- to 18-month program designed to develop 
diverse supplier candidates into corporate-ready suppliers that are fully equipped to do 
business with Delta Air Lines and other global supply chains. As a company that is  
focused on its customers, Delta seeks to cultivate strategic business partners that reflect 
the rich diversity of the cultures and communities we serve. T o accomplish this, we are 
committed to investing in suppliers with the potential to develop both the scale and the 
necessary capabilities to compete for contracts at Delta and elsewhere. 
The goal is to equip selected suppliers for long-term success by providing a significant  
base of resources, including educational components, access to Delta decision-makers,  
and mentoring support along the way. The pilot program—which was announced at the 
2018 Star Awards in February—included six suppliers that were nominated by leaders in 
Supply Chain Management and the Delta Business Units.  
PROGRAM BENEFITS
The Supplier Development Academy offers an array of benefits, including: 
Assessments   
Business assessments to identify specific gaps in capacity and development of a strategic plan. 
Education  
A robust business curriculum focused on 12 key areas of business scalability and growth. 
Coaching  
Monthly strategic coaching and quarterly business intensives to accelerate business performance.  
Access  
Access to key Delta executives, Business Unit leaders and Prime suppliers. 
Capital Partners 
Exposure to financial acumen from traditional and nontraditional funding sources.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
KEEP CLIMBING...
 
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION  58
On-Time Performance   58
NPS Measurement  59
Transforming Travel  
Through Technology  60
Business Disruptions   62
SERVING CUSTOMERS WITH DISABILITIES  64
CUSTOMER DATA PROTECTION 65
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT  67
Education  69
Health & Wellness   71
Military and Veterans  73IN THIS CHAPTERFOR OUR CUSTOMERS
In partnership with our customers, we’re creating a stressless travel 
experience. In 2019, we achieved record NPS scores throughout 
the year and at year-end across all our regions, including a record  
NPS  of 50.8 on domestic flights—an increase of nearly 5 
points from 2018.
572019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.58
BUILDING A  
BETTER CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE  
Building lasting relationships with our customers is one of Delta’s priorities.  
T o do this, we strive each day to provide the safest, most reliable and 
convenient experience possible on every flight and through every interaction. 
This includes calls to our Customer Engagement Centers and customer inquiries 
through social media. Delta continues to enhance the travel experience through 
innovation, streamlined security procedures and an unrelenting focus on safety.   
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
CUSTOMER 
SATISFACTION
On-Time Performance 
We recognize that we are only as good as our ability to get customers to their destinations reliably and on time. For this reason, we consider completions, or 
flights that arrive without cancellation, and on-time arrivals among the key measure of customer satisfaction performance. Our goals exceed DOT mandates. 
There are monthly and annual goals for these metrics for both Delta and Delta Connection partners, and award bonuses to our employees for meeting or 
exceeding these goals.
281 DAYS  180 DAYS  84%  
In 2019, we achieved a record 281 days without 
canceling any mainline flights, including 165 days 
with no system cancellations on the entire Delta 
network—a 15% increase from our record achieved 
in 2018. This was due in part to a 99% reduction in 
maintenance-related cancellations we’ve achieved 
over the past decade.Delta Connection, which is our regional network, 
achieved 180 days of zero flight cancellations 
in 2019. The group achieved this level of 
performance through an intense focus on delivering 
reliable customer experience. When an individual Delta 
Connection carrier is unable to complete a flight due to 
a mechanical or other issue, often another carrier will 
step in and substitute that flight to ensure customers 
get to their destination with little or no disruption.Combined, the Delta network operation posted  
84% of on-time flights across the network 
for the year.  EXPANSION IN SOUTH AMERICA
Delta has continued efforts to bring together the leading 
airlines of North and South America through its strategic 
alliance with LATAM Airlines Group S.A. Through the 
alliance, Delta seeks to improve alignment among brands 
and enable us to provide the best service and reliability 
for our shared customers. Once fully implemented, our 
strategic alliance with LATAM will offer significantly 
expanded travel options for customers.
ON-TIME NO DELTA CONNECTION 
CANCELLATIONSNO MAINLINE   
CANCELLATIONS2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.59
Delta takes the pulse of our customers using Net Promoter Scores (NPS), a 
standard tool for measuring customer satisfaction. Recognizing that customer 
satisfaction is driven by all aspects of the flight experience, we track satisfaction 
throughout a customer’s journey. This allows us to make more direct connections 
between all aspects of a customer’s experience and their likelihood to 
recommend Delta to others. In 2019, we achieved record NPS scores throughout 
the year and at year-end across all of our regions, including a record NPS of 50.8 
on domestic flights—an increase of nearly 5 points from 2018.  
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
DOMESTIC NET PROMOTER SCORENPS   MEASUREMENT
NPS improvements reflect our investment in customer service initiatives during 2019. Among the projects funded:  50.8
45.92019
2018
Automatic flight check-ins on the Fly Delta App for quick 
and seamless travel from curb to gate 
A redesign of the international Main Cabin for a more 
premium travel experience 
Enhanced customer communications during 
international travel for a more informed  
customer experience 
Expansion of in-flight entertainment content for more 
entertainment throughout the flight  
In-flight entertainment availability upon boarding so 
customers can begin their favorite shows and movies 
upon being seated Guest Services T ool (GST)—an app for pilots that runs 
on their iPads  
The addition of an estimated-time-to-gate feature on 
the Fly Delta app  
Virtual queuing so customers know when their group is 
boarding at the gate 
We also tested initiatives including express beverage 
service, free Wi-Fi, and service recovery toolkits for  
in-flight crew. These projects are in addition to the 
more than $12 billion that Delta is spending on airport 
redevelopment over the next decade.  2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.60
Delta is making investments in technology that are enhancing the customer experience in 
new ways. Thanks to recent advancements in biometric technology and verification, like facial 
and fingerprint scans, we are able to provide a higher level of accuracy, and thus a higher level 
of security, than paper boarding passes. It also frees up agents to better assist customers with 
needs, such as seat changes, prior to flight. The technology also gives customers less to keep 
track of as they move through the airport, with the goal of allowing them to travel faster and 
more seamlessly than ever.  
Delta’s partnered with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (US CBP) and CLEAR for over four 
years on pilot programs to test biometric screening. As part of this program, Delta operates the 
only biometric terminal in the U.S. at Atlanta’s Maynard H. Jackson International T erminal. This 
optional, end-to-end Delta biometrics experience enables all international passengers flying on 
Delta, Aeromexico, Air France-KLM and Virgin Atlantic to use facial recognition technology to: 
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
T ransforming T ravel  
THROUGH  
TECHNOLOGY
INNOVATION IN  
BAGGAGE HANDLING
Delta is proud to have the best record among  
U.S.-based global carriers for baggage performance, 
mishandling fewer than 0.02% of bags for every 
10,000 customers in 2019. We’re constantly striving to 
improve upon that performance through innovative new 
tools and technologies aimed at supporting the airline’s 
ramp and baggage operations. In 2019, Delta’s Baggage 
Operations and Control Center transitioned to a 24/7 
operation, allowing for timelier customer responses 
across email and social media. We also invested  
$10 million in 6,000 next-generation handheld 
scanners to replace older models. The Zebra TC77, 
which operates with advanced 4G LTE network 
capabilities and features enhanced Wi-Fi and cellular 
antenna hardware, is intended to significantly increase 
efficiency while delivering improved connectivity  
and reliability.  
Based  
on initial testing,  
facial recognition saves up to  
9 MINUTES  
per flight.Check in at self-service kiosks in the lobby  
Drop checked baggage at lobby counters  
Serve as identification at the TSA checkpoint  
Board a flight at any gate in T erminal F  
Go through CBP processing for  
international travelers entering the U.S. F2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.61
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Delta continues to make significant improvements to customers’ 
in-flight technology experience, further closing the gap of what 
customers can expect on the ground and in the air. Some of the most 
notable improvements include expanding our high-speed,  
gate-to-gate Wi-Fi to over 62% of mainline aircraft; implementing  
Wi-Fi connection enhancements; providing a streamlined and 
responsive Wi-Fi portal design; and introducing Gogo day-pass 
transferability on Aeroméxico’s Gogo-equipped aircraft.  
Delta is also expanding and enhancing its onboard entertainment 
options by equipping more planes with live TV, allowing customers to 
stay connected to real-time news, content and sporting events. In early 
2019, we introduced a new, proprietary wireless in-flight entertainment 
system invented by Delta on the A220 across all cabins. The wireless 
seatback entertainment system will allow for easier updates and 
repairs over the lifetime of the aircraft, as well as transfer content to 
the screen wirelessly, allowing for fewer wires and less weight on  
the aircraft.  
We continue to generate new ideas through investments such as 
The Hangar, a global innovation center that taps into top university 
talent; Engage, an Atlanta-based accelerator that supports technology 
startups and of which Delta is a founding supporter; and Innovative 
Flight Experience weekends for employees meant to generate solutions 
from within our business. All of these efforts are helping Delta digitally 
transform to create a smoother travel experience for all our customers.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.62
A big part of maintaining customer trust and keeping satisfaction high is 
Delta’s ability to recover from major events. Our Business Continuity program 
identifies threats and develops mitigation strategies for potentially major 
business disruptions that could impact our customers and our employees, like 
extreme weather, pandemics or security incidents. It promotes an integrated 
approach to all crisis preparedness through collaborative planning, training 
and frequent simulated exercises that promote close partnerships among air 
carriers, airports and government authorities. As a result, our customer 
satisfaction during disruptive events has improved 6 points year over year, 
based on data collected on every flight.  
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
BUSINESS
DISRUPTIONS
We have reinforced our readiness for these unforeseen 
challenges through our Irregular Operations (IROP) Steering 
Committee, consisting of senior leaders from each operational 
division. This group has developed a cross-divisional manual of 
agreed-upon actions to aid in recovery from a disruption.  
 
Key elements include:
Dispatching additional flight crew resources to affected cities  
 
Setting up cross-divisional communications coordinators  
 
Establishing automated alerting for airport congestion  
 
Predetermining overtime requirements  
 
Establishing remote work resources to aid during high  
workload periods  
 
Creating response checklists for key operational positions  
Developing scorecards for evaluating teams’ performance  
on certain mission-critical tasks during debriefings 1
2
3
4
5
6
72019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.63
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Delta’s advance planning, proactive communication and support in airports for 
impacted customers helps us maintain customer satisfaction. For example, when severe 
weather or other events disrupt operations, Delta may issue a travel waiver via email or 
text to give customers the chance to take alternate flights without paying a change fee 
when they are traveling from, through or to a market with a waiver.   
T o help improve our understanding and preparation of extreme weather, we provide 
our meteorologists and other teams with 24 hours of training every year. These 
trainings allow for cross-collaboration to improve operations. For instance, in 2019, the 
meteorology team partnered with the flight operations team to create a weather radar 
module for quarterly training.  
We also introduced the Weather Impact T ool (WIT), an internal tool for all employees to 
view Delta’s meteorology planning and IROP forecasts in a single place. With this tool, 
users can more efficiently all users this tool, they can more efficiently plan for possible 
weather constraints with longer lead times. This allows Delta’s flight planning team to 
proactively cancel flights if warranted, as well as enabling stations to be prepared for 
when operations resume.   
We extend access to these tools to our partners like Air France and KLM, who use the 
“threat plots” issued by Delta Meteorology to be aware of potentially hazardous weather 
conditions. Threat plots include forecasts for turbulence, volcanic ash clouds, hurricanes 
and significant space weather events. Delta Connection and joint venture partners also 
receive our IROP forecast from the new WIT .  
We are also partnering with the International Air T ransport Association (IATA) to build an 
industry database of automated turbulence reports. This database is intended to provide 
us with better visibility into areas of turbulence reported by other airlines. In 2019, 
we worked with the Federal Aviation Administration Weather Research Division to 
transition an automated turbulence forecast product from research into operations 
and have made the product available to the entire aviation industry.
  
EXTREME WEATHER
On September 1, 2019, Dorian made landfall in the northern 
Bahamas Islands as a Category 5 hurricane, devastating Great 
Abaco Island, Grand Bahama Island and T reasure Cay. As Dorian’s 
impact became known and relief efforts began, coordinating 
the humanitarian efforts was no easy feat, especially given the 
severe infrastructure damage at the airports. Delta and its Delta 
Connection partner Endeavor Air operated eight flights between 
Sunday, Sept. 8, and Thursday, Sept. 12, carrying more than 
85,000 pounds of supplies and evacuating more than  
500 survivors from Marsh Harbour, Great Abaco Island and 
Freeport, Grand Bahama Island, to Nassau. 
Delta’s Emergency Response program ensures 
personnel are prepared to respond to and assist customers, 
their families and fellow Delta employees following a 
critical incident anywhere in the world. An important part 
of Delta’s Emergency Response program is the Delta Care 
Team. This all-volunteer group of employees—more than 
2,600 team members strong—is trained to work with 
survivors and families impacted by an aircraft accident 
involving a Delta or partner aircraft. This highly diverse 
team is on standby 24/7, ready to deploy anywhere in the 
world. Their goal is to establish immediate and continual 
communications between Delta and the survivors and 
families affected by an accident or incident, and to respond 
to their needs both over the phone and in person. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.64
SERVING CUSTOMERS  
WITH DISABILITIES
At Delta, we understand that in order to be truly inclusive and equitable, 
we must ensure accessibility for all. As such, we maintain a Disability 
Program office in our Corporate Safety, Security and Compliance division 
that leads Delta’s efforts in creating inclusive travel experiences. At 
its foundation, this team is responsible for maintaining compliance with 
the legal requirements applicable in the various jurisdictions we serve 
and ensuring that Delta’s nondiscrimination policy provides reasonable 
accommodations for our customers with disabilities. Beyond that, the team 
partners with service and operational groups across Delta to help identify 
best practices and implement policies and procedures to better serve 
customers with disabilities.   
In 2019, Delta reported an industry-leading performance with the U.S. 
Department of T ransportation’s new reporting metric on damaged or 
delayed wheelchairs and scooters. We also are testing additional handling 
improvements for these assistive devices intended to further improve 
assistive device handling. 
As part of our commitment to customers, we fly over 610 service and 
support animals everyday, adding up to nearly 223,000 per year. Lack of 
regulation regarding the training and documentation requirements for 
maintaining the validity of service and support animals, however, has led 
to abuse of these policies. Animals who have not gone through the  
rigorous training and certification to become service animals can pose a 
risk to customers and our employees. As a result, Delta policy was revised 
to limit service and support animals to those over four months of age and 
to prohibit emotional support animals from traveling on flights greater than 
eight hours. The policy was again refined in 2019 to remove the restriction 
on emotional support animals on flights longer than eight hours and to 
reaffirm our restriction on pit bulls and pit bull-type dogs. This updated 
policy followed an 84% increase in reported incidents involving service and 
support animals—such as urination, defecation, and biting—as compared to 
2016 and 2017.   
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
A key resource supporting accessible travel is our Advisory Board  
on Disability (ABD), a volunteer organization comprised of  
14 customer-members with a variety of disability-related expertise.  
These members represent academic, business and healthcare backgrounds. 
They provided guidance on defining policies and procedures that best 
accommodate the legitimate needs of customers with disabilities,  
including service animal policies.   
Beyond the travel experience, the ABD works across the 
organization to create inclusive standards in all departments, 
like partnering with Marketing to develop internal 
captioning standards for any internal or external 
video created by Delta. Their involvement on our 
assistive device working group has been crucial 
in the development of customer and agent 
tools and other initiatives that help us 
improve the handling and transport 
of assistive devices. 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.65
At the core of Delta’s global commitment to data protection is our Privacy Policy. 
We strive to collect and process only the personal data that is necessary and have 
established physical, electronic and managerial safeguards to protect this information. 
These safeguards are regularly reviewed to protect against unauthorized access, 
disclosure and improper use of customer information, and to maintain the accuracy 
and integrity of that data. In the event of policy changes or a data breach, we aim to 
communicate with customers in a timely manner and assist those who may have been 
impacted by an incident.  
We and other U.S. carriers are subject to laws regarding the protection privacy of 
customer and employee data that vary between the countries in which we operate. We 
continue to update our processes to adhere to domestic and international privacy and 
data protection laws and regulations. New and updated processes include controls for 
data minimization, stricter adherence to data retention policies, updates to employee 
and customer-facing applications, establishing “opt-in” features, and changes to access 
permissions for systems and applications processing personal data.  
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
DEFENDING  
AGAINST THREATSCUSTOMER 
DATA PROTECTION
Our escalation policy guides employees on 
what to do if they detect or suspect a security 
issue on a Delta computer system or if Delta 
Confidential or Restricted information has been 
compromised. In such circumstances, employees 
must immediately contact the Help Desk and 
notify management. 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.66Delta’s membership in information security-related organizations allows 
Delta to remain engaged with the broader aviation community, sharing 
best practices in security and benefiting from shared intelligence 
information. In 2019, to continue evolving and better our IT and data 
security we completed the following:  
• The final deployment of a Data Loss Prevention tool   
• Security Orchestration, Automation and Response (SOAR) 
capabilities through our new security information and event 
management (SIEM) platform   
• A program to ensure data protection and encryption controls are in 
place for all customer data   
• The Delta Information Security team introduced a security 
training module that allows us to customize training using content 
provided by the vendor and developed by Delta. We now offer 
online courses to relevant employees and contractors covering the 
following topics:   
E-mail usage guidelines   
Information classification guidelines   
Internet access guidelines   
Overview of the information security function   
Password and user ID requirements   
Payment card industry data security standards   
Regulatory requirements   
Reporting a data security incident   
Sensitive security information   
Social engineering threats  
Secure application coding 
 
We released the Delta Information Acceptable Use Policy (AUP), a new 
policy around which our training is designed. We shared this new policy 
and the associated training modules with employees and contractors 
through video content. Additional enhancements to the program 
included role-based training modules designed specifically to enhance 
security training for individuals in certain roles within the company.  
PROTECTING CUSTOMER  
INFORMATION AND DATA  
 
T o improve the customer experience, the use and integration of technology 
is critical, which means that information security is essential to Delta. T o 
carry out this mission, Delta adheres to the NIST-CyberSecurity Framework, 
which emphasizes identification, protection, detection, response and 
recovery. All Delta employees are expected to play their part in maintaining 
general information security and privacy as they handle corporate and 
customer information in their job functions.  
Delta regularly assesses its information security program capabilities 
and tools to improve reliability, enhance capabilities, and to scan our 
environment for vulnerabilities and weaknesses. Our information technology 
owners remediate vulnerabilities identified within established timeframes 
and report to management on a weekly basis regarding the security risk 
posture of our information technology assets. 
Delta also seeks the opinions of industry experts to evaluate the 
effectiveness of our information security program through such measures as 
conducting third-party penetration tests annually, as well as conducting red 
team and blue team exercises internally. In 2019, our internally conducted 
system security analysis (pen test) found Delta’s ability to defend against 
security threats to be above industry standard.  
We have established a dedicated Information T echnology (IT) Risk team 
tasked with the goal of ensuring that risk remediation activities are carried 
out consistently, and that risk remediation controls are operating as intended 
and within established thresholds.  
Enterprise-wide training is paramount to reducing risk and promoting a 
secure brand that is serious about protecting customers, employees and 
company information. All employees and contractors with access to Delta’s 
information are required to complete annual training, which is updated as 
new technology, security and privacy issues emerge. 
Our Information Security Awareness program includes an expert speaker 
series, and awareness and engagement events in conjunction with large 
corporate events such as Relay for Life and LEAD, our annual leadership 
meeting. The team also participates in National Cybersecurity Awareness 
Month in October and Data Privacy Day in January. Awareness campaigns 
throughout the year focus on hot topics such as phishing, antitampering, 
data classification, password protection and ensuring a secure workspace. 
T raining and awareness activities serve not only to educate employees about 
how to protect Delta’s information assets, but also to give employees and 
their families the tools they need to protect themselves in the digital world.  
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
</>2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.67
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Since our founding, Delta’s culture of giving back has served as a connection 
to the communities where we live, work and serve. We celebrated our culture 
of giving back in 2019 by announcing The Great Delta Give-Back, offering 
employees a paid day to volunteer at charitable organizations worldwide that 
are dearest to them. This initiative drove employees to serve more than 1,800 
communities by reading to students, hosting events for sick children, building 
homes for those in need, mentoring young people and giving blood to save 
lives, among many other acts of service.   
In addition to employee volunteering, every year Delta invests one percent of 
the previous year’s net income into communities across the globe that align 
with our key pillars—Environment, Education, Health and Wellness and Military 
& Veterans. This commitment raises the bar for Delta’s Community Engagement 
program, formalizing communities as one of our key stakeholders. Delta Air 
Lines and The Delta Air Lines Foundation contributed $59 million to supporting 
global communities in 2019. 
1,800  
COMMUNITIES
SERVED$59M  
SUPPORTING
COMMUNITIESCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Delta is an honoree of  
The Civic 50 by Points of Light  
In June 2019, Delta was named an honoree of The Civic 
50 by Points of Light, the world’s largest organization 
dedicated to volunteer service, for the second year in 
a row. The award recognizes Delta as one of the most 
community-minded companies in the U.S. POINTSOFLIGHT2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.68
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
DELTA’S COMMUNITY IMPACT—AT A GLANCE
30
JA CHAPTERS22
YMCA CHAPTERS250
READING BUDDIES
AND TUTORS
Delta partners with Junior 
Achievement chapters 
across 4 continents to 
teach students financial 
literacy, work readiness 
and entrepreneurshipEDUCATIONDelta employees have built 
KaBOOM! playgrounds 
across 14 cities to give
kids a safe place to playDelta supports YMCA 
chapters on 2 continents 
through programming that 
includes swim lessons, 
tutoring and job shadowsDelta employees read and 
tutor students at 2 Atlanta 
Public Schools in the South 
Atlanta Cluster and also 
provide basics like books, 
coats, food and glasses
$6.6M
RAISED 
IN 2019WELLNESSDelta employees help 
repack more than 2 million 
pounds of food annually 
across the globe, including 
support of 18 Feeding 
America food banks
Delta employees and customers set record 
fundraising amounts in 2019 for the American 
Cancer Society, American Heart Association, Breast 
Cancer Research Foundation and United Way
100% of Delta's senior leaders contribute to the 
United Way's efforts to advance the common good 
in communities worldwide20
FOOD BANKS
Delta employees donated 
blood at 254 drives, 
making Delta #1 among 
American Red Cross 
corporate donors 
in FY1913,064
PINTS OF BLOOD
Delta employees build homes annually—spanning
13 countries since 1995—with Habitat for Humanity
12 homes have been funded by Delta’s on-board 
recycling and TechOps oil recycling programs6
RED CROSS
ORGANIZATIONS
Delta’s Red Cross 
support covers 
disaster relief 
efforts across 
the globe
127M
MILES$735K
DONATION FISHER HOUSES
71
HEROES12
USO CHAPTERS
As part of a Veterans Month 
promotion each November, Delta and 
its customers have donated miles to 
Fisher House Foundation’s Hero Miles 
Program and Luke’s Wings through 
the SkyWish Program, which helps 
transport military family members of 
injured service members and veteransMILITARY & VETERANSDelta has funded Fisher House facilities 
in LAX, NYC and SEA, which provide 
lodging for family members of injured 
loved ones receiving treatment at 
military and VA facilitiesDelta contributes to Toys for 
Tots annually and Delta 
employees build 1,000 bikes for 
kids every holiday season
Delta supports the Congressional 
Medal of Honor Foundation by 
providing living medal recipients with 
Diamond Medallion status and also 
funds educational programs including 
Direct to Kids, centered around 
promoting Medal of Honor valuesDelta supports the USO, as well as 
the MI Freedom Center in DTW 
and the Armed Forces Service 
Centers in MIA and MSP
$375K 
DONATION
Delta supports Folds of Honor 
with 75 educational 
scholarships each year for 
the children and spouses 
of our fallen and disabled 
service membersHABITAT
HOMES27330
PLAYGROUNDS
4Delta’s global hospital support 
includes 15 Children’s Miracle 
Network Hospitals, plus other 
leading hospitals like St. Jude 
Children’s Research Hospital 
and Great Ormond Street 
Hospital in London21
CHILDREN’S
HOSPITALS2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.69
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
EDUCATION
Delta’s education efforts aim to inspire the next generation of Delta employees, 
customers and shareholders, positioning them for bright futures in aviation and the 
general workforce. In keeping with this commitment, we invest in organizations that 
engage students in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) programs and 
underscore the importance of financial literacy, economics and entrepreneurship.  
Equipping today’s students with the skills and resources to thrive as tomorrow’s leaders 
will forge a path to a better future.  
Delta partners with 30 Junior Achievement chapters across four continents 
to teach students financial literacy, work readiness and entrepreneurship. 
Delta is also a National Signature Partner of 3DE, a JA program for high school 
students that restructures their educational experience to prepare them for life 
beyond the classroom.  
Through our partnership with the National Flight Academy, more than 600 
students from our community partners, military dependents of Delta employees 
spend six days aboard the world’s only virtual land-locked aircraft carrier, located 
in Pensacola, Florida. Students role play as pilots, develop their skills in simulators 
and test their mental preparedness, communication and teamwork in immersive 
scenarios that inspire them to learn about aviation and STEM careers.   
Despite a lapse in federal appropriations, the Martin Luther King, Jr. (MLK) National Historical Park 
remained open from January 19 through February 3, 2019 thanks to a grant from The Delta Air Lines 
Foundation and revenue generated by National Park Service recreation fees. The $83,500 grant 
covered National Park Service operations for 16 days, including MLK weekend—when the National 
Park Service witnessed the highest-ever number of visitors to the site. The park also remained open 
during celebrations in Atlanta for The Big Game, allowing for cleanup, administration, maintenance 
and more at a time when the city experienced a large increase in tourism owing to the event.  The 
park includes 35 acres in Atlanta’s Sweet Auburn Historic District, which contains important sites 
associated with the life and legacy of the civil rights leader: the home in which he was born; Ebenezer 
Baptist Church, where he served as co-pastor; and the historic Fire Station No. 6, which served the 
community in MLK’s youth. 
PRESERVING A LEGACY2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.70
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
In addition, Delta supports early education programs, recognizing that 
learning can be exhibited in many forms.
 
Delta volunteers help build playgrounds across the country. Since our 
partnership began in 2013, Delta employees have built 30 KABOOM! 
Playgrounds across 14 markets to give kids a safe place to play. 
In 2019, Delta built playgrounds in Atlanta, Boston, Los Angeles 
and Seattle. Delta also partners with The T rust for Public Land and 
partnered with John Wesley Dobbs Elementary in Atlanta for a 
design workshop in which students visualized a playground that will  
be built in the future. 
Delta supports 22 YMCA chapters on three continents through 
programming that includes tutoring and job shadows enabled 
by dedicated efforts from Delta’s RES and CARE teams. In 
2019, Delta supported a sustainability-focused program in 
Atlanta by joining two local YMCA after-school programs to 
distribute Looptworks backpacks recycled from Delta uniforms.  
 
2019 marked our third year in partnership with Atlanta Public 
Schools, which includes a $500,000 contribution over five years to 
improve the quality of education and literacy rates at two elementary 
schools in the South Atlanta Cluster. The partnership includes 
ongoing reading and tutoring support from more than 250 Delta 
employees and helps cover essential student needs, such as books, 
vision screenings/glasses, coats and meals. 
PROVIDING  
A LIFELINE
Delta is a corporate sponsor of Covenant House, which cares for 
homeless and trafficked youth in 31 cities across six countries. In 
2019, Delta employees and leaders worked with Covenant House 
to open doors for vulnerable youth through corporate Sleep Outs. 
These events raised more than $100,000 and provided mentorship 
and career readiness opportunities that have generated several 
Delta hires and a special partnership with Bombas, a sock company. 
Through this partnership, 300,000 Delta One customers received 
a free pair of Bombas dress socks in their in-flight amenity kit. For 
each pair given on board, another was donated on the ground to 
14 Covenant House chapters. Socks—a simple wardrobe staple for 
many—are the most requested clothing item in homeless shelters, 
but they number the fewest donations.  
OVER
$100K  RAISED
30 
KABOOM!
PLAGROUNDS
22 
YMCA  
CHAPTERS
$500K  
APS 
CONTRIBUTION2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.71
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
HEALTH & WELLNESS
Supporting healthier global communities, whether every day or when an unexpected disaster strikes, empowers 
individuals to get the most from every day. Delta’s commitment to action and outreach is exemplified through 
corporate support and employee engagement opportunities.  
 
Highlights from 2019 include:  
273 Habitat Homes: Since this partnership began in 1995, Delta employees have built 273 homes across 13 
countries, including nine in 2019 with Habitat for Humanity. T welve homes have been funded by Delta’s on-board 
recycling and T echOps oil recycling programs. In 2019, Delta employees built six homes in Brazil, two homes in 
Atlanta and one in Los Angeles. 
6 Red Cross Organizations: Delta supports disaster relief efforts across the globe, serving as an American Red 
Cross Annual Disaster Giving Partner (ADGP) at the $1M level annually. In 2019, Delta’s disaster relief support 
included efforts to fight the Los Angeles wildfires and clean-up relief measures in the Midwest following severe 
flooding and in the Bahamas after Hurricane Dorian. In addition to a record donation of blood, Delta contributed 
an additional $650,000 to the American Red Cross to fund specific disaster relief efforts in 2019. Delta also 
sponsored the American Red Cross’s Sound the Alarm program, which sends volunteers to 100-plus high-risk 
cities across the U.S. to install more than 100,000 free smoke alarms as a means of preventing home fires.   
20 Food Banks: Delta employees help repack more than 2 million pounds of food annually across the globe, 
which includes support for 18 Feeding America food banks. Delta employees sorted and packed more than 
300,000 pounds of food during Hunger Action Month (September), which equated to more than 187,000 meals. 
21 children’s hospitals: Delta supports 21 children’s organizations in the U.S. and the U.K., 15 of which are 
Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. Other children’s hospitals supported by Delta include Great Ormond Street 
Hospital, located in the U.K., and St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, located in Memphis, T ennessee.  
273  
HABITAT
HOMES
6 
RED CROSS
ORGANIZATIONS
20 
FOOD
BANKS
21 
CHILDREN’S
HOSPITALS+2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.72
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Delta employees and customers raise millions of dollars for 
organizations actively working to promote wellness, combat  
disease and fight hunger:  
Since 2005, Delta employees and customers have raised an 
unprecedented $16.8 million for the Breast Cancer Research 
Foundation (BCRF). Delta celebrated the 15th anniversary of  
its October “Breast Cancer One” survivor flight, which both kicks 
off and serves as the keystone event of our month-long campaign 
to generate awareness of and raise money for BCRF. The Pink 
Plane carried 140 employee breast cancer survivors from Atlanta 
to San Diego to celebrate their victories, share inspiring stories of 
courage and raise funds for breast cancer research.  
Employees raised $2.2 million in 2019 in support of the American 
Cancer Society through events such as Relay for Life, the Delta 
Jet Drag and Hope Ball. Delta has supported the American Cancer 
Society for 17 years and has contributed more than $17 million to 
support the organization’s lifesaving initiatives, including medical 
research, education and patient programs.  
Delta employees surpassed the 2019 United Way fundraising 
goal by raising more than $1.6 million. We have a 100% giving 
participation rate from senior leaders across the company, 
supporting our long-standing partner of more than 30 years. 
Delta employees, retirees and customers donated a record 13,064 
pints of blood at Delta-hosted American Red Cross blood drives 
across the system for the 2019 fiscal year, which equates to up 
to 40,000 lives saved. This donation record—an 18% increase 
from Delta’s previous donation year—made Delta the number-one 
corporate blood donor in the U.S. for the second year in a row. 
This marked the most successful donation year since the airline’s 
partnership with the humanitarian organization began in 1941, 
when Delta employees donated blood during World War II.SAVING LIVES
$16.8M BREAST CANCER RESEARCH FOUNDATION
$2.2M AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY
$1.6M UNITED WAY
2012 4,920
2013 5,291 +8%
2014 6,087 +15%
2015 6,642 +9%
2016 8,132 +22%
2017 9,375 +15%
2018 11,085 +18%
2019 13,064 +18%CORPORATE BLOOD DONATION (in pints)2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.73
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Delta is firmly committed to honoring our U.S. military and 
veterans—those who protect freedom around the world and 
allow generations to create change for good. We partner 
with civic and nonprofit organizations that support military 
service members and veterans.  
 
Delta is proud to be the Airline Partner of T oys for T ots and a 
National Corporate Sponsor of the Marine T oys for T ots Literacy 
Program. In 2019, Delta contributed $725,000 to U.S. Marine 
Corps Reserve T oys for T ots. In Atlanta, T echOps employees 
purchased and built 1,175 bikes and collected more than 15,000 
toys for local youth.  
Delta supports 12 USO Chapters, as well as the Michigan Freedom 
Center in the Detroit Metropolitan Airport and the Armed Forces 
Service Centers in Miami International Airport and Minneapolis- 
St. Paul International Airport.  
As part of a Veterans Month promotion each November, Delta 
and its customers have donated 127 million miles to Fisher House 
Foundation’s Hero Miles Program and Luke’s Wings through 
the SkyWish Program, which helps transport family members of 
injured service members and veterans.  
Delta is a principal funder of four Fisher House facilities, a network 
of comfort homes in which families of military personnel can stay 
at no cost while their loved ones receive medical treatment. Delta 
has funded Fisher House facilities in Los Angeles, New York 
City and Seattle. 
As a national sponsor of the Congressional Medal of Honor 
Foundation, Delta honors the legacy of the living Medal of Honor 
recipients with our highest SkyMiles Status, Diamond Medallion.  
Delta serves as a “friend of the fold” in support of the Folds 
of Honor Foundation, helping the organization provide 75 
educational scholarships to the children and spouses of fallen and 
disabled service members. MILITARY & 
VETERANS
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
APPENDIX
 
ABOUT THIS REPORT 75
 Materiality  75
 Stakeholder Engagement  76
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  77
GOVERNANCE  77
 Corporate Governance  77
 Board Education & Communication  78
 Political Contributions &  
 Lobbying Transparency  78
RISK MANAGEMENT  78
SUBSIDIARIES  79
VERIFICATION  80
GRI INDEX   81
SASB INDEX 86
TCFD 87IN THIS CHAPTER
742019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.75
The 2019 CRR utilizes our most recent (2019) biannual GRI Materiality 
Assessment priority topics. More information on our Materiality Assessment 
process and material topics can be found on pages 75 to 76. The 2019 CRR 
is a snapshot of our ESG efforts that covers the period of January 1, 2019, to 
December 31, 2019, and updates our previous report, published in 2018. For all 
ESG information defined as material in our 2018 Materiality Assessment, metrics 
are presented for the current year and for a minimum of three previous years. 
The report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards: comprehensive 
application level. This report also provides additional information and data 
not specified by GRI that Delta and its stakeholders deem relevant to business 
operations. A complete GRI Standards Content Index can be found beginning on 
page 81.   
 
2019 CRR EXTERNAL ASSURANCE  
We conduct assurance to verify our primary environmental impact—carbon 
emissions. An external assurance statement for emissions can be found on page 
80. Ruby Canyon Engineering, Inc. conducts our carbon emissions verification and 
provides a reasonable level of assurance on our Statement of Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) Emissions for reporting. Verified emissions data back to 2005 is publicly 
available on The Climate Registry website, at www.cris4.org. Note that Delta’s 
annual GRI reporting time line and annual emissions verification and reporting 
timelines do not coincide. For this reason, our annual verification of emissions data 
trails our CRR GRI report by one year. As a result, annual emissions for the 2019 
CRR reporting year will be verified after the CRR has been published. Furthermore, 
due to internal timeline reporting differences, any discrepancies from past CRR 
reporting to final verification will be noted in the external verification statement and in  
relevant tables. MATERIALITY   
Materiality is a key component of Delta’s annual corporate environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) reporting strategy because it allows us to strategically 
address and provide information about our most relevant ESG topics, as defined 
by our seven stakeholder groups:  
• Investors  
• Customers  
• Employees  
• Suppliers  
• Communities  
• Governments & Nongovernmental Organizations  
• Partner Airlines/Industry Peers 
At Delta, we use our annual CRR to transparently communicate how we view, 
prioritize and approach the identified ESG sustainability topics. We conduct 
materiality assessments on a biennial basis. Our 2019 assessment initially 
evaluated and examined more than 37 different topics, which were then narrowed 
down to 10 priority reporting topic areas (covered in four chapters). These priority 
topic areas helped to further define the information that we reported on in 2019. 
 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS  
T o evaluate and determine which priority topics are key to operating a world class 
airline, we directly engaged our seven stakeholder groups through a questionnaire 
process. This type of direct engagement allows us to better understand the topics 
that are important to our stakeholders, as well as provide exceptional service in an 
evolving business environment. Although our stakeholder engagement activities 
prior to 2017 had historically focused on customer service, satisfaction and 
support, the 2015 and 2017 materiality engagement processes allowed us to build 
on past efforts and to further define our priority topics.
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Delta’s 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR)  
is our third report aligned with the  
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
Standards framework.APPENDIX
ESG SUSTAINABILITY CONTACT 
Please send comments or questions about the 2019 CRR  
to SUSTAINABILITY@DELTA.COM or in writing to: 
DELTA AIR LINES, INC.  
ATTN: GARETH JOYCE, CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER 
DEPARTMENT 423  
1020 DELTA BLVD. 
ATLANTA, GA 30354
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.76
METHODOLOGY  
Drawing on GRI guidance, we utilized a four-step approach. The process sought to IDENTIFY possible topics, PRIORITIZE topics, VALIDATE results and finally 
APPLY & ALIGN the list to our CRR reporting strategy and to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs). 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  
We believe regular engagement and dialogue with our seven defined stakeholder 
groups through both formal and informal processes allows us to innovate and 
proactively address emerging ESG needs and risks. In addition to ongoing internal 
stakeholder engagement efforts and commitments, we regularly engage with 
external stakeholders on trending and emerging issues that matter to them. One 
way we do this is by responding to inquiries and requests for information related 
to our ESG sustainability practices. 
1
IDENTIFICATION2
PRIORITIZATION3
VALIDATION4
APPLICATION  
& ALIGNMENT
Following cross-industry and 
industry research, a coverage 
universe of 49 potential material 
topics was established. From this 
universal list, topics were then 
narrowed to 37 of the most relevant 
airline-specific topics. Based on the narrowed list of 37 
topics, a survey was developed 
that asked stakeholders to rank the 
importance of each topic relative 
to the others. We disseminated 
two versions of the survey—one to 
internal stakeholders and the other 
to external stakeholders. Both 
internal and external survey results 
were then aggregated and analyzed 
to create an initial topic ranking 
and matrix.Delta’s CRR reporting committee 
reviewed and discussed the 
matrix and prioritization of the 
37 material issues. Based on this 
discussion, a final ranking and 
matrix were created.The material topic list was mapped 
and applied to GRI comprehensive 
disclosures and aligned with 
the UNSDGs. Translating matrix 
results into priority reporting 
topics produced a list of the top 
10 material topics. Although the 
top 10 topics list receives the most 
coverage in our CRR, the final 
37-topic list informed the 2019 
report in its entirety. 
MATERIAL ISSUES
1 Flight Safety 11 Ethical Conduct
2 Customer Satisfaction 12 Customer Nondiscrimination
3 Customer Data Privacy and Protection 13 Emergency Preparedness
4 Employee Safety 14 Passenger Rights
5 Innovation 15 Human T rafficking
6 Aircraft Fuel Efficiency and GHG Emissions 16 Employee Engagement and Satisfaction
7 Climate Change Management 17 Diversity and Inclusion
8 Corporate Culture 18 Sustainable Aviation Fuels
9 Financial Performance and Resiliency 19 T ravelers with Disabilities
10 Customer Health and Safety 20 Disaster Response
In addition to understanding that direct and indirect stakeholder engagements 
allow us to innovate and evolve our ESG efforts, we realize that increased 
transparency helps us effectively improve our business over the long-term.  
The external charters and associations Delta is actively engaged with include: 
• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
• CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project)  
• The Climate Registry  
• Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)  
• FTSE4Good Index
• Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index  
• International Air T ransport Association (IATA)  
• A4A 
  APPENDIX2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.77
GOVERNANCE 
At Delta, we are proud of our history of good corporate governance, 
beginning with Delta’s board, which sets the tone for the culture, values 
and strategy of the company. Delta has a history of a strong, independent 
and active Board, composed of seasoned members with diversity of 
experiences. The chart to the right represents information as of  
April 30, 2020.
More information about our board members can be found on our investor 
relations website at https://ir.delta.com/governance/#board-directors . 
Our investor relations website also contains all documents we file with the 
SEC, including our annual reports, quarterly reports and proxy statements 
for our annual meetings. These filing contain detailed information about 
our activities, including financial performance, business strategy and 
executive compensation.
GOVERNANCE PRACTICE HIGHLIGHTS 
The Board is committed to sound corporate governance practices in line 
with evolving best practices. These practices include:
• Independent, non-executive chair
• Election of all directors annually
• Ongoing succession and refreshment – 8 of 12 directors first elected in 
2014 to the present
• Majority voting for directors in uncontested elections
• Proxy access
• Special meeting call by holders of 20% of outstanding common stock
• Outside directors do not stand for re-election after age 72
• Robust self-evaluations of Board and Board committee
• Regular comprehensive succession planning for management
• Policies for Anti-hedging and anti-pledging of Delta stock by all 
management, employees and Board
• Prohibition against ownership of airline competitors’ stock by the Board  
and officers
• Meaningful stock ownership and retention guidelines for Board and  
executive officers
• No shareholder rights plan (poison pill) or super-majority voting
• No employment agreements or supplemental executive retirement plans  
for officersDIVERSITY INDEPENDENCEBOARD
TENURE8 6 11
5 52
20-4 YEARS 5-9 YEARS 10+ YEARS
All Independent
Except CEO And ALPA NomineeAverage Tenure
5.5 Years (All)
4.9 Years (Nominees)5 Of 13 Directors Are Diverse From 
Racial, Gender Or Ethnic Standpoint
SENIOR LEADERSHIP
AIRLINE/TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY
MARKETING/BRAND MANAGEMENT/DATA
FINANCE/ACCOUNTING
RISK MANAGEMENT
TECHNOLOGY/CYBERSECURITY/DIGITAL
ENERGY
GLOBAL BUSINESS
GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS/SECURITY
BOARD MEMBERSHIP11
2
2
7
5
5
83
1
7SKILLS INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS COLLECTIVELY POSSESS
BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE  
Because we believe operating pursuant to sound governance practices benefits the 
long-term interests of our shareholders, for many years we have chosen to elect 
an independent, non-executive Chairman of the Board separate from our Chief 
Executive Officer. The non-executive Chairman of the Board plays an important 
governance leadership role, working with our Chief Executive Officer to coordinate 
the Board’s oversight of management
The Board of Directors has established five committees to assist in discharging its 
responsibilities:
• Audit
• Corporate Governance
• Finance
• Personnel & Compensation
• Safety & Security
Through its committees, the Board regularly monitors and oversees a wide range 
of matters relating to financial, social and environmental concerns. A complete 
list of the responsibilities of each committee can be found in the committee 
charters, which are available in the corporate governance section of our website 
at ir.delta.com/governance/ . All members of the Audit, Corporate Governance, 
Finance and Personnel & Compensation Committees are non-employee directors 
who are independent, as defined in the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing 
standards and Delta’s director independence standards. The members of the 
Audit Committee and the Personnel & Compensation Committee also satisfy 
the additional independence requirements set forth in rules under the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 Act. 
 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
We primarily report on our financial performance through our Annual Report (Form 10-K), Quarterly Reports (Form 10-Q) and other filings with the SEC, all of which are 
available on our relations website, ir.delta.com , and the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov . Financial performance data in this report focuses on economic performance as it 
relates to environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. The organizational entities covered in this CRR are the same as presented in our Annual Report (From 10-K).APPENDIX2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.78BOARD EDUCATION & COMMUNICATION  
The Board recognizes the importance of continuing education. All members are 
encouraged to take advantage of education opportunities at Delta’s expense. 
Board members are also regularly engaged in informal opportunities to develop 
a deeper understanding of issues relevant to Delta and the airline industry. 
Additionally, the Board retains oversight of stakeholder concerns through regular 
communication processes with management. Among the many topics on which 
the Board receives regular reports and updates from management are ESG matters. 
In particular, the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board receives updates 
on the company’s environmental sustainability strategy and accomplishments, 
political contributions and charitable activities. The Personnel & Compensation 
Committee has regular oversight over human capital management, including 
receiving regular reports on succession planning. The Audit Committee receives 
regular reports on enterprise risk management matters and relevant matters 
reported to the company’s helpline.
 
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS & LOBBYING TRANSPARENCY  
In 2019, DeltaPAC gave $1,192,500 to federal-level candidates, committees  
and party committees. In 2019, corporate spending for federal lobbying  
expenses totaled $3,287,092 and state-level corporate political contributions 
totaled $476,217. Our report on political contributions is available on our investor 
relations website at https://ir.delta.com/governance .
RISK MANAGEMENT  
The global and highly competitive nature of our industry presents many risk. 
Financial and operational risk factor, include the following:
• The rapid spread of the COVID-19 virus and measures implemented to 
combat it have had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on 
our business. Moreover, the longer the pandemic persists, the more material 
the ultimate effects are likely to be. It is likely that there will be future 
negative effects that we cannot presently predict, including near  
term effects.
• We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from a serious 
accident involving our aircraft or aircraft of our airline partners.
• Breaches or lapses in the security of our technology systems and the data we 
store could compromise passenger or employee information and expose us 
to liability, possibly having a material adverse effect on our business.
• Disruptions of our information technology infrastructure could interfere with 
our operations, possibly having a material adverse effect on our business.
• Failure of our technology to perform effectively could have a material adverse 
effect on our business.
• Our significant investments in airlines in other parts of the world and the 
commercial relationships that we have with those carriers may not produce 
the returns or results we expect.
• We have a significant amount of fixed obligations and have incurred 
significant new debt in a short period in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Insufficient liquidity may have a material adverse effect on our financial 
condition and business.
• Agreements governing our debt, including credit agreements, include 
financial and other covenants that impose various restrictions on our 
business. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in events  
of default.
• Employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may have a material 
adverse effect on our operations.
• Our results can fluctuate due to the effects of weather, natural disasters  
and seasonality.
• An extended disruption in services provided by third parties, including  
third-party regional carriers, could have a material adverse effect on our 
results of operations.
• Our business and results of operations are dependent on the price of 
aircraft fuel. High fuel costs or cost increases, including in the cost of 
crude oil, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
• Significant extended disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a 
material adverse effect on our operations and operating results.
• An environmental or other incident associated with the operation of the 
Monroe refinery could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated 
financial results if insurance is unable to cover a significant liability. In 
addition, such an incident could damage our reputation.
• The operation of the refinery by Monroe is subject to significant 
environmental regulation. Failure to comply with environmental 
regulations or the enactment of additional regulation could have a 
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results.
• If we lose senior management and other key employees and they are not 
replaced by individuals with comparable skills, our operating results could 
be materially adversely affected.
• Our reputation and brand could be damaged if we are exposed to 
significant adverse publicity.
• T errorist attacks, geopolitical conflict or security events may adversely 
affect our business, financial condition and operating results.
• The global airline industry is highly competitive and, if we cannot 
successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition 
and operating results will be materially adversely affected.
• Extended interruptions or disruptions in service at major airports in which 
we operate or the extended grounding of a type of aircraft or engine we 
operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
• The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and 
new regulations may increase our operating costs.
• The airline industry is subject to many forms of environmental regulation, 
including increased regulation to reduce emissions. Failure to comply with 
environmental regulations or the enactment of additional regulation could 
have a material adverse effect on our financial results.
• Because of the global nature of our business, unfavorable global economic 
conditions or volatility in currency exchange rates could have a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.
• Economic conditions following the United Kingdom’s exit from the 
European Union could have a material adverse effect on our business.APPENDIX2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.79
OVERSIGHT OF RISK MANAGEMENT  
The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility to oversee Delta’s enterprise risk management program (ERM). Headed by the Vice President—Corporate Audit & 
Enterprise Risk Management, the ERM program instills a heightened awareness of risk management throughout Delta, identifies and categorizes risks and monitors 
the progress of enterprise risk mitigation plans. The role of ERM is to provide a risk management framework with cross functional alignment to enable risk informed 
decision-making through identification and categorization of risks and monitoring the progress of enterprise risk mitigation plans. The Board discusses risk throughout 
the year, particularly when reviewing operating and strategic plans and when considering specific actions for approval. Depending on the nature of the risk, the 
responsibility for oversight of selected risks may be delegated to appropriate committees of the Board, with material findings reported to and discussed with the  
full Board.
Delta’s ERM process is a journey of continuous improvement and iteration to meet the evolving needs of our business. Leaders of the business divisions, working closely 
with the ERM leader, have responsibility for risk identification, development of business risk mitigation plans, and monitoring and reporting progress of their implemen-
tation. The corporate safety and security department oversees the risk management process for risks related to customer, employee, aircraft and airport safety and secu-
rity matters. A senior management level, cross-divisional council, the Delta Risk Council (DRC), meets quarterly and includes the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Information 
Officer, Chief Sustainability Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Controller, Chief Information Security Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and Vice President—Corporate Audit & 
Enterprise Risk Management, among others. The DRC is responsible for overseeing all of the company business and safety and security risks, including the following: 
monitoring risk tolerance levels; defining organizational responsibilities for risk management; identifying significant risks to Delta; and risk mitigation and management 
strategies based on Delta’s risk tolerance levels as well as monitoring the business to determine that risk mitigation activities are in place and operating. As appropriate, 
various officers and employees attend meetings of the DRC and follow up on issues addressed within the DRC.  
 
SUBSIDIARY REPORTING 
Delta Air Lines subsidiaries are not subject to Delta Air Lines environmental policy, procedures or reporting requirements. Given this, details of subsidiary environmental 
performance, governance and regulatory compliance are not included in this report. Delta Connection emissions are included in this report.APPENDIX
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.80Delta Air Lines 2018 GHG  Emissions  Inventory Verification      5 
March 31, 2020  
 emissions and verified that the final reported emissions are materially correct to a limited level of 
assurance.  
4.0 Verification Results 
Delta  provided sufficient evidence and documentation of its emission s calculations , data collection 
procedures, and monitoring and quality control procedures  for its facilities . The verification process 
focused on v erifying the emissions calculations  and the source data used by Delta  to quantify its GHG 
emissions in accordance with The Climate Registry’s General Reporting Protocol . The following is a 
summary of the verification results.  Tables 2 and 3 define the GHG emissions ver ified for 2018. 
During the verification process, RCE made requests for additional documentation, clarifications , and 
corrective actions  as necessary  to complete the verification. Delta  sufficiently addressed all corrective 
actions. The details of these requests are documented in RCE’ s List of Findings provided to Delta . 
 
5.0 Conclusion  
RCE conducted a risk‐based analysis of Delta ’s GHG  emissions  inventory  and a strategic review of the 
inventory data and calculations . Based upon the processes and procedures and the evidence collected, 
RCE concludes that the GHG assertion is a fair representation of the  GHG emissions for 2018  and can be 
considered:  
• In conformance with The Climate Registry’s Gener al Reporting Protocol V ersion 2.1, 
• Without material discrepancy  in Scope 1 , Scope 2  location -based, Scope 2 market -based, or 
Scope 3  emissions , and  
• Scope 1 and 2 emissions v erified to a reasonable level of assurance  and Scope 3 emissions 
verified to a limited level of assurance.  
 
Table 2. Total North American Entity Emissions by Emission Type Under Operational Control  
Emissions Verified  CO 2e (metric tons)  
Stationary Combustion  68,544.65  
Mobile Combustion  24,582,345.33  
Fugitive  4,238.47  
Scope 1 Total  24,655,128.45  
Applied Offsets  -3,29 3,160 .00 
Net Scope 1 Total  21,3 61,968.45  
Purchased Electricity – Location -based  267,489.73  
Purchased Heating – Location -based  31,026.42  
Scope 2 Location -Based Total  298,516.15  
Purchased Electricity – Market -based  267,489.73  
Purchased Heating – Market -based  31,026.42  
Scope 2 Market -Based Total  298,516.15  
*Individual categories  may not sum to total  due to rounding . Please note that Delta applied 3,293,160 retired offsets to Scope 1 
emissions total resulting in a net total of 33,701, 240 tCO2e for  combined North American and Worldwide  Scope 1 emissions . 
 
Delta Air Lines 2018 GHG  Emissions  Inventory Verification      6 
March 31, 2020  
 Table 3. Total Worldwide Entity Emissions by Emission Type Under Operational Control  (including 
North America)  
Emissions Verified  CO 2e (metric tons)  
Stationary Combustion  68,577. 02 
Mobile Combustion  36,921,387.25  
Fugitive  4,436.45  
Scope 1 Total  36,994,400.72  
Applied Offsets  ‐3,293,160  
Net Scope 1 Total  33,701,240.72  
Purchased Electricity – Location ‐based  273,459.91  
Purchased Heating – Location ‐based  33,267.19  
Scope 2 Location ‐Based Total  306, 727.09  
Purchased Electricity – Market ‐based  273,459.91  
Purchased Heating – Market ‐based  33,267.19  
Scope 2 Market ‐Based Total  306, 727.09  
Fuel and Energy Related Activities  3,677,436.76  
Scope 3 Total  3,677,436.76  
*Individual categories  may not sum to total  due to rounding . Please note that Delta applied 3,293,160 retired offsets to Scope 1 
emissions total resulting in a net total of 33,701,240  tCO2e for  combined North American and Worldwide  Scope 1 emissions . 
 
 
 
 
Lead Verifier Signature      Independent Peer Reviewer  Signature  
     
Jessica Stavole ‐Carter     Nina Pinette  
APPENDIX
VERIFICATION
We conduct assurance to verify our primary environmental impact—carbon emissions. An external assurance statement for emissions can be found on below. Ruby 
Canyon Engineering, Inc. conducts our carbon emissions verification and provides a reasonable level of assurance on our Statement of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 
for reporting. Verified emissions data back to 2005 is publicly available on The Climate Registry website, at www.cris4.org . Note that Delta’s annual GRI reporting time 
line and annual emissions verification and reporting timelines do not coincide. For this reason, our annual verification of emissions data trails our CRR GRI report by 
one year. As a result, annual emissions for the 2019 CRR reporting year will be verified after the CRR has been published. Furthermore, due to internal timeline reporting 
differences, any discrepancies from past CRR reporting to final verification will be noted in the external verification statement and in relevant tables. 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.81
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE
TITLE2019
RESPONSE
GRI 102: General Disclosures
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Delta Air Lines, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Delta By the Numbers
Delta 2019 10-K, pages 2-6
102-3 Location of headquarters Delta By the Numbers
Delta 2019 10-K, page 2
102-4 Location of operations Delta By the Numbers
Delta 2019 10-K, pages 2-3
102-5 Ownership and legal form Delta Air Lines, Inc. is a publicly held corporation incorporated in the state of
Delaware. Our shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
102-6 Markets served Delta By the Numbers
Delta 2019 10-K, pages 2-6
102-7 Scale of the organization Delta By the Numbers
102-8 Information on employees and other workers For Our People—Workforce Profile
102-9 Supply chain For Our People—Partners with Shared Values
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain There have been no significant changes during the reporting period.
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Delta has not formally adopted use of the precautionary principle. For Delta, adoption of the principle 
would apply primarily to potential harm related to use of fossil fuels and carbon emissions.  While 
the principle is not formally used, we have an established enterprise risk management program and a 
Climate Change Policy; and we are actively engaged with the airline industry regarding  
mitigation efforts.
102-12 External initiatives Appendix—Stakeholder Engagement
102-13 Membership of associations Appendix—Stakeholder Engagement
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision maker A Message from Ed
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Delta 2019 10-K, pages 13-20
For Our Planet—Climate Risk
Appendix—Risk Management
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior For Our People—The Delta Difference
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics For Our People—The Delta Difference
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Principles
102-19 Delegating authority Appendix—Governance
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental,  
and social topicsAppendix—Sustainability Governance and Management Strategy
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental,  
and social topicsAppendix—Materiality and Materiality Assessment Process
Delta 2020 Proxy, pages 10-11
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Board of Directors
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Delta 2020 Proxy, page 14
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Principles
102-25 Conflicts of interest Delta Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values,  
and strategyAppendix—GovernanceAPPENDIX
GRI INDEX2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.82
APPENDIX
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE
TITLE2019
RESPONSE
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Appendix—Governance
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance The Board of Directors and each of its committees conducts an annual self-evaluation. This
evaluation includes a performance review relative to the governance of economic, financial, operational, 
environmental and social topics. The specific input process varies from year to year in order to promote 
critical and productive self-evaluation. After self-evaluation, the Board and each committee review the 
results and appropriate actions are taken to address any areas of concern.
  
 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Appendix—Governance
Delta 2020 Proxy, page 17
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Appendix—Governance
Delta 2020 Proxy, pages 11-12
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Appendix—Sustainability Governance and Management Strategy
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Stockholders and other interested parties may communicate with Delta’s nonmanagement directors via 
e-mail at nonmgmt.directors@delta.com. Communications with nonmanagement directors may also be 
mailed to:
c/o Law Department, 981
Attn: Chief Legal Officer
1030 Delta Boulevard
Atlanta, GA 30354
102-35 Remuneration policies Delta 2020 Proxy, pages 20-48
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Delta 2020 Proxy, pages 20-48
For Our People—Putting Our People First
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Delta 2020 Proxy, page 20
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Delta 2020 Proxy, page 46
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Delta 2020 Proxy, page 46
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Appendix—Stakeholder Engagement 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Delta 2019 10-K, page 11
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Appendix—Stakeholder Engagement
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Appendix—Stakeholder Engagement
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Appendix—Stakeholder Engagement
Reporting Practices
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Delta 2019 10-K, pages 53-55
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Appendix—About This Report
102-47 List of material topics Appendix—About This Report
102-48 Restatements of information There have been no restatements in this reporting period.
102-49 Changes in reporting Appendix—About This Report
102-50 Reporting period Appendix—About This Report
102-51 Date of most recent report Appendix—About This Report
102-52 Reporting cycle Appendix—About This Report
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Appendix—About This Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Appendix—About This Report
102-55 GRI content index Appendix– About This ReportGRI INDEX2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.83
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE
TITLE2019
RESPONSE
Topic-Specific Standards
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct
For Our People—The Delta Difference
103-2 The management approach and its components Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct
For Our People—The Delta Difference
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Enterprise-wide assessment for corruption-related risks.
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies  
and proceduresFor Our People—The Delta Difference
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There were no incidents of corruption during 2019.
GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct
For Our People—The Delta Difference
103-2 The management approach and its components Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct
For Our People—The Delta Difference
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Delta Code of Ethics & Business Conduct
For Our People—The Delta Difference
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust,  
and monopoly practicesDelta 2019 10-K, page 24
GRI 302: Energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
103-2 The management approach and its components For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
302-3 Energy intensity For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
GRI 305: Emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
Delta’s Carbon Emissions Policy
103-2 The management approach and its components For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
Delta’s Carbon Emissions Policy
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
Delta’s Carbon Emissions Policy
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions For Our Planet— Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
305-4 GHG emissions intensity For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions For Our Planet—Environmental Sustainability—Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) For Our Planet—Environmental Compliance
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO X), sulfur oxides (SO X),  
and other significant air emissionsFor Our Planet—Environmental ComplianceAPPENDIX
GRI INDEX2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.84
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE
TITLE2019
RESPONSE
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary For Our Planet—Environmental Compliance
103-2 The management approach and its components For Our Planet—Environmental Compliance
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach For Our Planet—Environmental Compliance
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination For Our Planet—Waste Management
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method For Our Planet—Waste Management
306-3 Significant spills For Our Planet—Managing and Mitigating  Spills
306-4 T ransport of hazardous waste For Our Planet—Waste Management
306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Delta does not significantly discharge into water bodies.
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary For Our Planet—Environmental Compliance
Delta’s Environmental Policy
103-2 The management approach and its components For Our Planet—Environmental Compliance
Delta’s Environmental Policy
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach For Our Planet—Environmental Compliance
Delta’s Environmental Policy
307-1 Noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations For Our Planet—Environmental Compliance
Delta’s Environmental Policy
GRI 401: Employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Safety—Safety Leadership & Culture
For Our People—Health Benefits
Delta’s Rules of the Road
103-2 The management approach and its components Safety—Safety Leadership & Culture
For Our People—Health Benefits
Delta’s Rules of the Road
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safety—Safety Leadership & Culture
For Our People—Health Benefits
Delta’s Rules of the Road
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover For Our People—Workforce Profile
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided  
to temporary or part-time employeesFor Our People—Health Benefits
401-3 Parental leave Delta does not track this information.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Safety
The Way We Fly
103-2 The management approach and its components Safety
The Way We Fly
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safety
The Way We Fly
403-1 Workers’ representation in formal joint management–worker 
health and safety committeesSafety—Safety Leadership & Culture
403-2 T ypes of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 
absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalitiesSafety—Safety Leadership & Culture
403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related  
to their occupationDelta is unaware of any high risk for diseases related to our employees’ occupation.
403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements  
with trade unionsSafety—Safety Leadership & CultureAPPENDIX
GRI INDEX2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.85
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE
TITLE2019
RESPONSE
GRI 404: Training and Education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary For Our People—Putting Our People First—T raining/Career Development
They Way We Fly
103-2 The management approach and its components For Our People—Putting Our People First—T raining/Career Development
They Way We Fly
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach For Our People—Putting Our People First— T raining/Career Development
They Way We Fly
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee For Our People—Putting Our People First—T raining/Career Development
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition
assistance programsFor Our People—Putting Our People First—T raining/Career Development
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance  
and career development reviewsFor Our People—Putting Our People First—T raining/Career Development
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary For Our People—Diversity, Inclusion & Equity
103-2 The management approach and its components For Our People—Diversity, Inclusion & Equity
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach For Our People—Diversity, Inclusion & Equity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees For Our People—Workforce Profile
Delta 2020 Proxy, page 13
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men For Our People—Diversity, Inclusion & Equity
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Safety
For Our Customers—Customer Satisfaction
103-2 The management approach and its components Safety
For Our Customers—Customer Satisfaction
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Safety
For Our Customers—Customer Satisfaction
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impact of product  
and service categoriesSafety
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety  
impacts of products and servicesThere were no incidents reported in 2019.
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary For Our Customers—Customer Data Protection
For Our Customers—T ransforming T ravel Through T echnology
Delta Air Lines, Inc. Privacy Policy
103-2 The management approach and its components For Our Customers—Customer Data Protection
For Our Customers—T ransforming T ravel Through T echnology
Delta Air Lines, Inc. Privacy Policy
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach For Our Customers—Customer Data Protection
For Our Customers—T ransforming T ravel Through T echnology
Delta Air Lines, Inc. Privacy Policy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer dataConfidentiality constraints prohibit Delta from reporting this information.
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary For Our People—Culture
103-2 The management approach and its components For Our People—Culture
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach For Our People—Culture
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social  
and economic areaDelta 2019 10-K, page 24APPENDIX
GRI INDEX2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.86
TOPIC METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Activity 
MetricsAvailable seat kilometers (ASK) TR-AL-000.A 275,379 million (Available Seat Miles)
Passenger load factor TR-AL-000.B 86.3%
Revenue passenger kilometers (RPK) TR-AL-000.C 237,727 million (Revenue Passenger Miles)
Revenue ton kilometers (RTK) TR-AL-000.D 41,171 million
Number of departures TR-AL-000.E More than 15,000 flights per day
Average age of fleet TR-AL-000.F 14.9
TOPIC METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Greenhouse 
Gas  
EmissionsGross global Scope 1 emissions TR-AL-110a.1 38,161,781 MT CO 2e 
(see For Our Planet - Emissions Inventory)
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions,  
emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targetsTR-AL-110a.2 For Our Planet— 
Environmental Sustainability—  
Climate Change, Emissions & Air Fleet
(1) T otal fuel consumed TR-AL-110a.3 35,759,375 MT CO 2e (mainline) 
(see For Our Planet - Emissions Inventory)
(2) Percentage alternative fuel TR-AL-110a.3 0%  
(only used in 13 aircraft delivery flights;  
see page 32)
(3) Percentage sustainable fuel TR-AL-110a.3 0%  
(only used in 13 aircraft delivery flights;  
see page 32)
Labor  
PracticesPercentage of active workforce covered under collective bargaining agreements TR-AL-310a.1 Approximately 16%
(1) Number of work stoppages TR-AL-310a.2 0
(2) T otal days idle TR-AL-310a.2 0
Competitive
BehaviorT otal amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with  
anti-competitive behavior regulationsTR-AL-520a.1 N/A
Accident & 
Safety
ManagementDescription of implementation and outcomes of a Safety Management System TR-AL-540a.1 Safety
Number of aviation accidents TR-AL-540a.2 4 per 1,138,768 flights
Number of governmental enforcement actions of aviation safety regulations TR-AL-540a.3 0SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD INDEXAPPENDIX2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DELTA AIR LINES, INC.87
DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMEND DISCLOSURE SOURCE
Governance
Disclose the organization’s governance concerning
climate-related risks and opportunities.a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks 
and opportunities.For Our Planet—Sustainability Governance and  
Management Strategy
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and 
managing climate-related risks.For Our Planet—Sustainability Governance and  
Management Strategy
Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential impact of  
climate-related risks and opportunities on  
the organization’s businesses, strategy and  
financial planning.a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities 
the organization has identified over the short-, medium-, 
and long-term.For Our Planet—Climate Risk
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and  
opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, 
and financial planning.For Our Planet—Climate Risk
c) Describe the potential impact of different scenarios, 
including a 2°C scenario, on the organization's businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning.For Our Planet—Climate Risk
Risk Management
Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and 
manages climate-related risks.a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying 
and assessing climate-related risks.For Our Planet—Climate Risk
b) Describe the organization's processess for managing 
climate-related risks.For Our Planet—Climate Risk
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 
organization’s overall risk management.For Our Planet—Climate Risk
Metrics and Targets
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and 
manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities.a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess 
climate-related risks and opportunities in keeping with its 
strategy and risk management process.For Our Planet—Metrics: T ransparency and Reporting
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks.For Our Planet—Metrics: T ransparency and Reporting
c) Describe the targets used by the organization to 
manage climate-related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets.For Our Planet—Metrics: T ransparency and ReportingTASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURESAPPENDIX
*Due to the current reporting year (2019), verification of emissions data trails the publication of Delta’s annual GRI report; verified emissions data is for 2018. 
2019 emissions data will be verified by the end of 2020 and publicly available at cris4.org
Delta responds annually to the CDP Climate Change questionnaire. Responses to TCFD disclosure framework are also available in our CDP response, available 
on cdp.net and delta.com/sustainability  
2019 CDP score: A-
 1030 DELTA BLVD., ATLANTA, GA 30354Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The statements in this report that are not historical facts, including statements regarding our estimates, expectations, beliefs, 
intentions, projections, goals, aspirations, commitments or strategies for the future, should be considered "forward-looking 
statements" under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are not guarantees or promised outcomes and should not be construed 
as such. All forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from the estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions, projections and strategies reflected in or suggested by the forward-
looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the material adverse effect that the COVID-19 
pandemic is having on our business; the impact of incurring significant debt in response to the pandemic; the possible effects of 
accidents involving our aircraft; breaches or security lapses in our information technology systems; disruptions in our information 
technology infrastructure; our dependence on technology in our operations; the performance of our significant investments in, 
and commercial relationships with, airlines in other parts of the world; failure to comply with the financial and other covenants in 
our financing agreements; labor issues; the effects of weather, natural disasters and seasonality on our business; the effects of an 
extended disruption in services provided by third parties; the cost of aircraft fuel; the availability of aircraft fuel; failure or inability of 
insurance to cover a significant liability at Monroe’s T rainer refinery; the impact of environmental regulation on the T rainer refinery, 
including costs related to renewable fuel standard regulations; our ability to retain senior management and key employees; damage 
to our reputation and brand if we are exposed to significant adverse publicity; the effects of terrorist attacks or geopolitical conflict; 
competitive conditions in the airline industry; interruptions or disruptions in service at major airports at which we operate; the 
effects of extensive government regulation on our business; the impact of environmental regulation on our business; the sensitivity 
of the airline industry to prolonged periods of stagnant or weak economic conditions; and uncertainty in economic conditions and 
regulatory environment in the United Kingdom related to the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
Additional information concerning risks and uncertainties that could cause differences between actual results and forward-looking 
statements is contained in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
year ended December 31, 2019 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2020. Caution 
should be taken not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which represent our views only as of July 31, 2020, 
and which we have no current intention to update except to the extent required by law.