Bold ideas for 
better communities
2020-2021 Sustainability ReportSustainability Report
Table of Contents 
w
Introduction
About This Report 3
Letter from Chief  
Responsible Officer  4
Letter from Head of  
Sustainability and ESG5
Dream Overview 6
Sustainability Journey 8
ESG Framework 9
Stakeholder Engagement 12ESG at Dream
Governance and Risk 13
Governance 14
Risk Management 17
Business Ethics 19
Social 20
Employee Engagement  
and Development22
Diversity, Inclusion and 
Advancement25
Health and Safety 29
Volunteering and Giving 31ESG by Entity
Dream Unlimited Corp. 34
Overview 34
Highlights 35
Scorecard 36
Our Approach 38
Environmental 39
Social 43
Governance 45
Dream Impact Trust 47
Overview 47
Highlights 48
Scorecard 49
Our Approach 52
Environmental 54
Social 59
Governance 61Dream Office REIT 64
Overview 64
Highlights 65
Scorecard 66
Our Approach 68
Environmental 69
Social 73
Governance 76
Dream Industrial REIT 79
Overview 79
Highlights 80
Scorecard 81
Our Approach 83
Environmental 85
Social 94
Governance 97Appendices
Supplemental Disclosures 102
Standards References: 
GRI, SASB, TCFD104
www.dream.ca↗For more information on 
Sustainability at Dream, please 
visit our website.
2The content of this report was defined through 
engagement with Dream’s stakeholders, as well as by 
specific commercial real estate sustainability standards 
and Dream’s sustainability programs and initiatives. 
This report has been approved by the Chief Responsible 
Officer of Dream Unlimited Corp., and Chief Executive 
Officers of Dream Industrial REIT and Dream Office REIT 
as well as the Chief Financial Officers for each entity. In 
addition, it has been approved by the Chief Operating 
Officers of Dream Office REIT and Dream Industrial REIT.  
The annual Sustainability Report is prefaced by the 
common Dream group section and then followed by 
individual sections for each entity. The following sections 
reflect the Dream group of companies and their common 
policies, strategies, performance and initiatives: Dream 
Overview, Sustainability Journey, ESG Framework, 
Stakeholder Engagement, Governance & Risk, and Social.
The remaining sections of the report reflect entity-specific 
practices and performance. The intended audiences of 
this report are tenants and residents, investors, research 
analysts, communities, employees, our partners, as well 
as municipalities and governments in locations where 
Dream operates.Introduction
About this Report
Reporting Standards
This report has been prepared with references to the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. It also 
includes indicators from the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Real Estate Standard and 
addresses the recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). These 
standards are referenced in the reference tables starting 
at the end of this document.Report Verification
Environmental data disclosed by D.UN and MPCT.UN in 
this report has been independently verified by Quinn 
& Partners, who performed limited verification on 
selected GHG emissions, energy, water and waste data 
in accordance with ISO 14064-3. In this report, the 
symbol indicates verified information. A copy of the 
verification statement can be found here. ↗
Contact
For any questions or feedback regarding this report,  
please contact: 
Sustainability & ESG at sustainabilityandesg@dream.ca ↗Reporting Boundaries
All information and performance data contained in this 
report reflects the period from January 1 to December 31, 
2020, unless otherwise stated. All amounts are reported 
in Canadian dollars. In some places we may highlight a 
2021 initiative and will provide more detailed information 
on these initiatives in next year’s sustainability report, 
to be released in 2022. Where there have been 
changes in measurement methods or restatements of 
information from the 2019 Sustainability Report ↗, we 
have identified these in a footnote to describe the change. 
Dream published its first Sustainability Report in 2015, 
and has subsequently disclosed sustainability information 
in the annual reports of its public entities since 2017. In 
2019, we released a Sustainability Report focusing on the 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance 
and practices for the Dream group of companies as well 
as for each Dream entity. The 2019 Sustainability Report was 
released in November 2020. The 2020-2021 Sustainability 
Report presents Dream’s new ESG Framework and provides an 
update on Dream’s sustainability performance, practices 
and initiatives.
The Dream group  
of companies consist of 
the following:The Dream group of companies, which is collectively 
referred to as "Dream", consist of the following:  
Dream Unlimited Corp. (TSX: DRM)  
("DRM") or ("Dream Unlimited") 
Dream Impact Trust (TSX: MPCT.UN)  
("MPCT.UN") or ("Dream Impact") 
Dream Office REIT (TSX:D.UN)  
("D.UN") or ("Dream Office") 
Dream Industrial REIT (TSX:DIR.UN)  
("DIR.UN") or ("Dream Industrial")
Dream Unlimited Corp.[+]
TSX: DRM2020 Annual Report ↗
Website  ↗Dream Impact Trust [+]
TSX: MPCT.UN2020 Annual Report ↗
Website  ↗Dream Office REIT [+]
TSX: D.UN2020 Annual Report ↗
Website  ↗Dream Industrial REIT [+]
TSX: DIR.UN2020 Annual Report ↗
Website  ↗
* Dream Impact Trust’s legal name is Dream Impact Master GP Inc. 3Chief Responsible Officer's Message
At Dream, we have always embraced impact investing and 
sustainability. Our mission is to create positive environmental 
and social results, alongside strong financial returns. 
We also know that good Environmental, Social and Governance practices are 
necessary to meet the needs of investors and manage risk in our business. 
We are building better communities because they are environmentally 
sustainable, inclusive and improve the lives of our tenants, communities, 
partners and employees, which is an integral part of who we are and how we 
do business.
In addition to being the right thing, sustainability is a part of our day-to-day 
business and we actively work to improve the places where we invest, develop 
and operate with the goal of leaving them better than we found them. Our 
successes can be seen in the revitalization of our communities such as 
Toronto’s Distillery District, Zibi, West Don Lands and Brightwater. We have 
pursued social and environmental results with our tenants by offering green 
leases, creating walkable communities with parks and green spaces, and 
operating energy and water efficient buildings.
At Dream, we are using our core business to address broader social 
and environmental issues and we have been able to support Canada’s 
commitment to affordable housing, climate change and social inclusion. 
We have set significant attainable and affordable housing targets in our 
development projects at Zibi, Canary District, and West Don Lands. We are 
making progress on Zibi’s goal of being 100% powered by its innovative, 
zero carbon District Energy System by 2025. We continue to support and 
celebrate the Indigenous community through the Indigenous Hub project in 
Canary District and within the Zibi community. As community builders, we 
want to ensure a high quality of living, resource efficient assets, safe and 
well-paid jobs, and contribute to local supply chains and enterprises.
In 2020, Dream became a signatory to the International Finance Corporation’s 
Operating Principles for Impact Management and over the past year we 
have worked diligently to develop our impact investing approach while also 
achieving market returns. We now have the tools to better measure and 
communicate our positive environmental and social results that we generate 
together with financial returns to our investors. We invest with intent and are 
focused on the future impacts we can create beyond the typical development 
projects. Our impact investing approach has shown us where we have the 
greatest opportunity to maximize our impact: Environmental Sustainability 
and Resilience, Affordable and Attainable Housing and Inclusive Communities.The Dream group of companies, including Dream Unlimited, Dream Office 
REIT, Dream Industrial REIT and Dream Impact Trust, continue to demonstrate 
leadership in creating a better future world. 
We are proud to announce that the Dream group of companies has set an 
ambitious and industry leading goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions 
by 2035. As part of our Environmental Sustainability and Resilience impact 
vertical, we are applying our rigorous impact management system to hold 
ourselves accountable and strive for transparent, continued improvement. 
Over the next year, we will deliver a road-map that outlines how we will reach 
net zero by 2035. We also recently announced $136.6 million in funding 
from the Canada Infrastructure Bank, which will significantly support our 
transition to net zero.
We have also committed to the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative, which sets 
targets of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050; however, at Dream 
we are going to go further, faster. We are committing to net zero by 2035 
because we need to take steps now, not later. Our teams are motivated and 
understand the sense of urgency to find solutions.
We are very proud to unveil a new Social Procurement Strategy that is one 
of the most ambitious in Canada. We seek to leverage the money we spend 
in developing and managing our real estate to create business opportunities 
and jobs for both equity-seeking groups and local or independent businesses. 
In the communities we build, we use our impact principles to build 
communities that are safe, diverse and attainable.
Our goal has always been to do great work. Our people feel empowered, 
fulfilled and are proud of our work. We have a strong track record of building 
great careers and we are very proud of the many alumni that have gone on to 
be leaders in the industry and continue to stay connected with Dream.
The events of the past years have impacted the world profoundly. Throughout 
this time, we have been focused on running a great business and having a 
positive impact on people’s lives.
Sincerely, 
Michael Cooper
Chief Responsible Officer
Dream Unlimited Corp.
4Head of Sustainability and ESG Letter
In our 2020-2021 Sustainability Report, Dream is proud 
to show that we’ve accomplished a lot and significantly 
advanced our impact, sustainability and ESG mandates. 
Building on our well received 2019 Sustainability Report, we've advanced our 
practices to develop greater and more detailed data collection, best in class 
policies and standards, and more ambitious goals. We believe that a solid 
management approach to ESG is the foundation for good business practices 
and our impact investing platform. 
In 2021, we formalized our ESG Framework to integrate ESG into our 
business and provide support for our mission to Build Better Communities 
– communities that are sustainable, inclusive and improve people’s lives. As 
you will see in this report, the ESG Framework sets the direction for all Dream 
entities to continue our leadership by identifying and elevating our key ESG 
priorities. It includes elements that are common to all entities, but is also 
customized to meet the ESG goals and needs of each individual entity.  
Our ESG Framework centres around four core pillars which capture important 
value creation opportunities and responsible business practices:
Creating better places 
Being future ready 
Fostering strong relationships 
Ensuring operational excellence 
With our ESG Framework in place, we have guiding principles for our 
businesses and employees to focus our innovation and energy. 
We are pleased to announce that Dream has set new, industry leading net 
zero greenhouse gas emission (“net zero”) goals for each Dream entity: 
DRM, MPCT.UN and D.UN have committed to being net zero by 2035 for operations 
and new developments, including Scope 1, 2 and select Scope 3 emissions 
DIR.UN has committed to being net zero by 2035 for operations including Scope 
1 and 2 and Net Zero by 2050 for select Scope 3 emissions Reaching net zero is not simple, and we understand that it goes beyond one 
commitment. To support our net zero commitments, we commit to increased 
measurement and verification of our greenhouse gas emissions, alignment 
with leading standards and organizations, increased transparency in our 
reporting, and increased partnership in working with our stakeholders 
in government, utilities, our supply chain, employees and our tenants. As 
part of our effort to be leaders in the transition to the low carbon future we 
will continually monitor and assess the applicability of renewable energy 
generation opportunities.  
In addition, we have taken significant steps to show our commitment to 
transparency and accountability in our business. As such, Dream Unlimited, 
on behalf of the Dream group of companies, has joined the Net Zero Asset 
Managers (NZAM) initiative in November, which represents asset managers 
around the world aligned with net zero targets of 2050 or sooner. The 
initiative covers 220 signatories and US$57.4 trillion AUM, of which Dream is 
one of the first Canadian companies to join.  
Furthermore, Dream Unlimited, on behalf of the Dream group of companies, 
has signed onto the United Nations’ Principles for Responsible Investment (UN 
PRI)↗ – an international network of investors working together to implement 
six key principles to ensure a sustainable global financial system. Each 
Dream entity has become an official supporter of the Task Force on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ↗, chaired by Michael R. Bloomberg. 
Together with our net zero by 2035 commitment, our commitments to NZAM, 
UN PRI and TCFD contribute to our comprehensive and rigorous impact and 
ESG management system.  
Over the next five years, our focus will be to take meaningful and thoughtful 
steps to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by setting interim 
reduction targets and focusing on measuring our Scope 3 emissions including 
emissions from downstream leased assets and business travel.
We hope you find this report informative, educational, and inspiring as we 
continue on our impact, sustainability and ESG evolution.
Sincerely,
Lee Hodgkinson
Head of Sustainability & Technical Services
Dream Unlimited Corp.
5Dream Overview
Dream is an asset manager, owner and developer of real estate. Founded in 1994 with a 
vision to revolutionize the way people live and work, Dream is one of Canada’s leading 
real estate companies, with over $13 billion in assets under management amongst its four 
publicly listed entities, private funds and institutional partnerships.$13 billion
In assets under management*
39.8 million
sq.ft. of industrial Gross Leasable Area 
(GLA) in DIR.UN*23,810
condominium and purpose-built rental 
units in the Dream group portfolio 
(including development pipeline)*
5.5 million
sq.ft. of office GLA in D.UN*
476
total employees11.7 million
sq.ft. of commercial / retail GLA across 
the Dream group portfolio*Across the Dream group of companies we have:
At Dream, our employees are our most valuable asset and 
consist of the following:
(1) Includes only employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, Dream Industrial Management Corp.,
Dream Office Management Corp. and Dream Industrial Europe Advisors Cooperatieve U.A. Does not include employees 
at Dream recreational properties, employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, 
parental leave) or interns.   
(2) Numbers represented as total headcount, not full-time equivalent. 
(3) Includes permanent part-time employees. 
(4) Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week.Number of Employees(1)(2)Men Women Total
Permanent(3)252 224 476
Contract 6 8 14
Full-time(4)255 231 486
Part-time 3 1 445%
of managers are women47%
of employees are women30%
of executives are women*As of September 30, 2021. 
6Introduction
Dream Group of Companies
Dream Office REIT
TSX: D.UNDream Industrial REIT
TSX: DIR.UN
Dream Unlimited Corp. 
TSX: DRM
Dream Impact Trust
TSX: MPCT.UNRecurring Income
Stabilized Income 
Generating AssetsAsset Management & 
Equity Ownership in 
Dream Office REITDevelopment
Urban Development 
Toronto & OttawaWestern Canada 
Community 
DevelopmentDream
Dream takes an innovative and bold 
approach to ESG and impact investing, 
continuously challenging ourselves and  
others to do more.
Headquartered in Toronto, Canada, Dream is responsible 
for some of Canada’s most iconic and transformational 
projects. We invest with purpose, embracing creativity, 
passion and innovation to deliver high returns, while doing 
good for the communities and the world around us.  
We proudly participate as members of several industry 
associations including:
Building Owners and Managers Association  
(BOMA) Canada 
REALPAC 
International Council of Shopping Centres (ICSC) 
Building Industry and Land Development Association (BILD) 
Commercial Real Estate Development Association (NAIOP) 
Local Business Improvement Associations  
Urban Land Institute (ULI) 
Catalyst member of the Canadian Green Building  
Council (CaGBC) 
European Public Real Estate Association (EPRA) 
RECA – Real Estate Council of Alberta
SREC – Saskatchewan Real Estate Council 
RECO – Real Estate Council of OntarioDream's Private 
Asset Management 
Business
7Introduction
Sustainability Journey 
Dream has integrated sustainability into the way we conduct business for over a decade. 
We are proud of our track record of environmental, social and governance initiatives, 
and look forward to sharing our progress with you on the journey ahead. 
2004
DRM formed a partnership to invest, 
improve and revitalize Toronto’s Distillery 
District community, transforming 40 heritage 
buildings into a landmark destination and 
creating a cultural anchor in the city’s East end2007
DRM launched a $350M fund exclusively 
focused on renewable energy
2011
D.UN began measuring greenhouse gas 
emissions, energy and water consumption 
and set four-year targets
DRM was selected to develop the LEED Gold 
Pan/Parapan AM Athletes Village, inclusive 
of affordable and student housing. The 
project won numerous awards including 
the 2014 Building Industry and Land 
Development Association (BILD) Community 
of the Year2013
DRM became the first TSX-listed company to 
have a female majority Board2014
DIR.UN began its rooftop solar program
DRM invested in Zibi (Gatineau) to create 
Canada’s most sustainable master-planned 
community
2014
Dream formalized diversity policies for  
each entity
Dream established a Sustainability 
Executive Committee to oversee and 
embed sustainability in key business areas, 
including property operations, employee 
engagement and communications2018
DRM and MPCT.UN (formerly Dream Hard 
Asset Alternatives Trust) were selected to 
deliver the West Don Lands project, building 
600+ affordable housing units in a mixed-
income community
2018
D.UN and DRM formed Alate Partners to 
invest in innovative real estate solutions2020
Dream Hard Asset Alternatives Trust (DRA.
UN) changed name to Dream Impact Trust 
(MPCT.UN), focusing on impact investing
DRM became a signatory to the Operating 
Principles for Impact Management and 
a member of the Global Impact Investing 
Network
2015
Michael Cooper, Chief Executive Officer, 
changed title to Chief Responsible Officer
Dream published its first Sustainability Report2017
DRM completed the transformation of 
the Broadview Hotel, creating a beautiful 
landmark and arts and culture destination 
for the vibrant Riverside community 2021
MPCT.UN published inaugural Impact Report and 
Disclosure Statement 
Dream developed ESG framework to drive and 
unite ESG initiatives across the entities
D.UN and MPCT.UN participated in the Global 
Real Estate Sustainable Benchmark (GRESB) for 
the first time and achieved a score of 91 and 90 
respectively
Dream certified as a Great Place to Work ® 
which reflects its commitment to creating a 
positive work culture for all of its employees 
DRM and MPCT.UN released Impact Financing 
Framework to issue green, social or sustainability 
bonds, green loans and social loans, or other 
financial instruments to finance or re-finance 
eligible impact projects 
DIR.UN released Green Financing Framework in 
support of DIR.UN’s green financing initiatives 2019
DRM and MPCT.UN (formerly Dream Hard 
Asset Alternatives Trust) established a 
partnership with Anishinábe Health Toronto 
to develop Canary Block 10, the centre of 
an Indigenous Hub celebrating culture and 
serving Toronto’s Indigenous community
8BP
Best Place sIntroduction
ESG Framework
For over two decades, we have been working 
to make our communities better while 
maximizing returns for our investors.
We aim to continue this work while increasing our focus 
on generating intentional and measurable environmental 
and social returns, aligning ourselves with applicable 
standards and in 2021, further integrating ESG throughout 
our business by implementing a formal ESG Framework.  
We are excited to share our new ESG Framework, which 
identifies and elevates our ESG priorities and sets the 
direction for us to continue to be an ESG leader.  
Developed with extensive input from key stakeholders, our 
ESG Framework considers the global macro trends that 
are influencing today’s sustainability expectations and 
identifies the emerging and material sustainability topics 
that are ingrained in how we run our business internally 
and externally. The ESG Framework is connected to 
Dream’s purpose to Build Better Communities and aligns 
with our corporate values and strategy.
The ESG Framework applies to each of our entities and is 
tailored to address the most material ESG topics within 
each. Throughout this report you’ll find references to the 
ESG Framework, including at the start of each entity’s 
section, that set out the most material sustainability 
topics for each entity and how we are responding based 
on the type of asset class and specific fund objectives.  ESG Framework Pillars
Best  Places:
Creating better places and communities 
that make positive impacts on people’s 
lives and the planet 
Future Ready: 
Building and operating with the future  
in mind 
Strong  Relationships: 
Fostering inclusive relationships to create 
value for everyone in our community 
Operational Excellence: 
Running a great company that focuses  
on purpose and profitDream's Values
Our values provide the foundation for 
our corporate culture and our investment 
philosophy – and align with our ESG 
Framework pillars.
Social Responsibility 
Courageous Ideas
Meaningful Relationships
Fierce Diligence
9Best Places
Creating better places and communities that make 
positive impacts on people’s lives and the planet.
Certifications
Health, safety, and wellness
Amenities and inclusive atmosphere
Attainability and affordability
Connectivity
Dream Value: Social ResponsibilityFuture Ready
Building and operating with the future in mind.
Climate change resilience
Carbon and resource efficiency
Innovation and technology adoption
Sustainable development
Sustainable redevelopment
 Dream Value: Courageous IdeasStrong Relationships
Fostering inclusive relationships to create value for 
everyone in our community.
Tenant relationships
Government collaboration
Community / NGO partnerships
Indigenous engagement
Sustainable procurement
Dream Value: Meaningful RelationshipsOperational Excellence
Running a great company that focuses on purpose 
and profit.
Diversity, inclusion and advancement
Valuing employees, 
ESG risk management
Corporate governance
ESG impact and management
Dream Value: Fierce Diligence
BP
 SR FR OEESG Framework PillarsIntroduction
 
10Introduction
 
United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals 
The Sustainable Development Goals, (SDG) 
also known as the Global Goals, were 
adopted by all United Nations Member States 
in 2015 as a universal call to action to end 
poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all 
people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030.  
There are 17 goals in total which provide a shared blueprint 
to achieve these goals. In our investment strategy we 
identify relevant SDGs and consider how our project may 
contribute to the achievement of these goals. In particular, 
Dream is dedicated to building safe, resilient, inclusive and 
sustainable cities – expressed by Goal 11.
Dream supports the Sustainable Development Goals
Canary District
Toronto, Ontario
11Stakeholder  
groupEmployees
Frequency:  
ContinuousTenants
Frequency:  
ContinuousInvestors and analysts
Frequency:  
ContinuousMunicipal government partners 
and local communities
Frequency:  
Ad Hoc
Topics engaged on — COVID-19 response 
 — Health, safety and wellness initiatives 
 — Lunch and Learns 
 — Office services 
 — People & Culture programs  
 — Social Committee activities 
 — Diversity, inclusion and advancement  — Sustainability campaigns and events  
 — GHG data collection for areas outside of 
our operational control 
 — Wellness promotions 
 — COVID-19  — Sustainability strategy and disclosure  
 — Impact investing 
 — Financial returns alongside measurable 
social and environmental benefits 
 — Industry initiatives 
 — Net zero targets  — Housing affordability 
 — Indigenous engagement 
 — Social procurement 
 — Sustainability practices
Engagement 
methods — Annual performance reviews 
 — Semi-annual feedback check-ins 
 — Internal communications (intranet, 
emails) 
 — Bi-weekly business updates with Chief 
Responsible Officer 
 — One-on-one meetings 
 — Social media (LinkedIn, Glassdoor) 
 — Touchpoints and exit interviews 
 — Guest speakers  
 — Town halls 
 — Employee Surveys 
 — Weekly COVID-19 updates  — Emails/communications 
 — Engagement surveys 
 — Media releases 
 — Monthly promotions 
 — One-on-one meetings with leasing and 
client services  
 — Tenant experience emails 
 — Tenant concierge service 
 — Website 
 — Quarterly newsletters Investor relations activities including: 
 — Investor Days 
 — Investor presentations 
 — Meetings 
 — Annual General Meeting 
 — External conferences 
 — Press releases 
 — Quarterly and annual reports  
 — Website  — Community meetings 
 — Emails and other communications 
 — Sustainability policies and standards  
 — Focus groups 
 — Market round- table discussions 
 — Media releases 
 — Websites (project specific and 
corporate) websites 
 — Quarterly and annual reports 
 — Relationship building 
What we heard — Employees feel heard and supported 
 — Employees report that Dream is an 
inclusive place to work 
 — Dream employees feel that health and 
safety has been implemented well 
through the COVID-19 pandemic 
 — Employees feel there is an openness 
to new ideas  
 — Employees appreciate the fast-paced 
work culture and environment at 
Dream  — Tenants report they are appreciative of 
efforts to promote wellness, as well as 
offer new programs and communication 
platforms 
 — Tenants are pleased with receiving 
regular COVID-19 updates and new 
safety protocols   — Investors are interested in Dream’s 
approach to managing sustainability, 
climate risk disclosure and participation 
in the GRESB real estate assessment 
and the United Nations Principles for 
Responsible Investment (UN PRI) — Design-related feedback 
 — Importance of  public realm, parks, 
public spaces, amenities
How we are 
responding — Initiated discussions with employees 
and managers on topics of 
engagement 
 — Used feedback from employee survey 
to identify improvement opportunities 
and implement new initiatives to 
improve employee experience 
 — Refined our Whistleblower Policy  
 — Following up on diversity survey 
recommendations   — Used feedback from our tenant 
satisfaction survey to identify 
improvement opportunities for property 
teams and develop action plans to 
implement new tenant engagement 
initiatives — Enhanced sustainability governance
 — Set performance targets 
 — Assessed flood risk
 — Aligning disclosures with leading ESG 
reporting standards — Enhanced communication including 
community feedback, ongoing dialogue, 
open soundings and weekly meetings 
 — Integrated design-related changes Introduction
Stakeholder  
Engagement
Dream fosters strong, long-term relationships 
and maintains an open and ongoing dialogue 
with all our stakeholders.
Doing so creates satisfied tenants, happy employees, 
confident investors and enthusiastic partners. We make 
use of multiple engagement methods to continuously 
improve how we work together and create shared value in 
the communities where we operate. We continue to build 
on the feedback received from our stakeholders and use it 
to improve our business.
12Governance & Risk
Dream is committed to sound and effective 
corporate governance. Our goal is to not only 
meet the requirements established by regulators, 
but also to uphold excellent corporate 
governance principles and practices. 
13Governance
Our governance approach includes nominating 
diverse, independent and experienced Board members to each of our public entities, as well as ensuring transparency in all aspects of our business.
Read more about our corporate governance practices in the 
Management Information Circulars for each entity and on our corporate websites.
Board Oversight
For each Dream entity, a Board Committee is responsible for oversight of sustainability matters. We continue to embed sustainability in our Board mandates and integrate sustainability in each entity’s strategy, enterprise management systems, operations and most importantly, culture.
Board Composition
Each Dream Board is comprised of highly experienced, dedicated and knowledgeable professionals who each have expertise in key areas of Dream’s businesses.
How Our Framework Applies:
Governance topics that are a key priority for Dream are:
Corporate governance
ESG risk managementESG impact and management
The following sections in this charter will illustrate how we are addressing 
material governance topics for Dream and how ESG is integrated throughout our governance structures and risk management processes.Dream Industrial REIT - Read More ↗
Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Disclosure Policy ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
Whistleblower Policy ↗Majority Voting Policy ↗Diversity Inclusion & Advancement  
Commitment ↗
Management Information Circular ↗Dream Unlimited Corp. - Read More ↗
Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Disclosure Policy ↗Code of  Conduct ↗
Whistleblower Policy ↗
Majority Voting Policy ↗Diversity Inclusion & Advancement  
Commitment ↗
Management Information Circular ↗Dream Impact Trust - Read More ↗
Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Disclosure Policy ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
Whistleblower Policy ↗Majority Voting Policy ↗Diversity Inclusion & Advancement  
Commitment ↗
Management Information Circular ↗Dream Office REIT - Read More ↗
Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Disclosure Policy ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
Whistleblower Policy ↗Majority Voting Policy ↗Diversity Inclusion & Advancement  
Commitment ↗
Management Information Circular ↗75+2575%
75+2571%
75+2571%
75+2575%50+5050%
43+5743%
25+7525%Independent Women
75+2575%
75+2575%
75+2575%60+4060%
2019(1)2020(2)
Independent WomenBoard Composition
(1) As of November 2020.
(2) As of December 2021.(3) Includes members of both the GP and Trust Boards.
43+5743%*
25+7525%50+5050%↗
↗
↗
↗60+4060%50+5050%
OE(3)
14Board Diversity
We believe in diversity and value the benefits 
it can bring to our Boards.
Board diversity promotes the inclusion of different 
perspectives and ideas and ensures that Dream has the 
opportunity to benefit from all available talent. Having 
a diverse Board makes prudent business sense, helps 
maintain a competitive advantage and makes for better 
corporate governance.  
We will periodically assess the skills, experience, knowledge 
and backgrounds of Directors and Trustees in light of 
the needs of the Board, including the extent to which the 
current composition of the Board reflects a diverse mix of 
skills, experience, knowledge and backgrounds, including 
an appropriate number of women Directors and Trustees. 
The Board targets a composition in which women comprise 
approximately 30% of Directors or Trustees.
In 2021, we approved Board Diversity Policies for each of 
our public entities.
Executive Oversight
The Chief Responsible Officer (CRO) of Dream Unlimited is 
the highest-level executive with oversight over ESG, including 
sustainability and climate change matters, at Dream. In addition, 
the Chief Financial Officer of each Dream entity together with the 
Chief Operating Officers for DIR.UN and D.UN provides leadership 
over the sustainability strategy and oversees the adoption of the 
ESG Framework for each Dream entity. 
Sustainability at Dream is managed by the ESG Executive 
Committee, which is made up of members of the Executive 
Leadership team from each Dream entity as well as the Head of 
Sustainability & Technical Services and VP Strategic Finance. 
The ESG Executive Committee receives regular updates from 
the Sustainability & ESG team, Strategic Finance team, and the 
Sustainability Working Groups. 
Dream Leadership Conference 
Collingwood, ON
30 Adelaide Street East,
Toronto, OntarioGovernance
 
Further Information
Dream Unlimited Corp. 
Website  ↗Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Dream Impact Trust
Website  ↗Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Dream Office REIT 
Website  ↗Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Dream Industrial REIT 
Website  ↗Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
15Green Property Operations
This group is responsible for integrating environmental 
sustainability in Dream’s property operations, 
which includes overseeing energy, water, and waste 
management, procurement, leasing and marketing, and 
tenant engagement. The Green Property Operations 
group supports the development and rollout of policies, 
programs, guidelines and tools.Employee Engagement
The employee engagement group uses social activities, 
personal development programs, and inter-office 
competitions to raise awareness about Dream’s 
sustainability practices. The group designs activities to 
encourage employees to understand and support our 
commitments to sustainability. A key component of this 
group’s goals is to tie Dream to its purpose of Building 
Better Communities.Tenant Engagement
The tenant engagement group remains in frequent 
contact with tenants to keep them well informed of 
Dream’s sustainability efforts. The group evaluates 
tenant satisfaction with the services we provide and 
identifies improvement opportunities, designs activities 
to encourage tenants to be environmentally conscious 
and connects with tenant sustainability committees and 
internal green teams.
Sustainability Reporting & Communications
This group works to continually embed sustainability 
into the Dream brand, so that everyone internally and 
externally knows about our commitment to sustainability. 
This entails preparing an external sustainability report, 
sharing information through newsletters and online, 
working on targeted sponsorships and promoting Dream’s 
efforts at conferences.Profile: Sustainability  
Working Groups 
When it comes to our people and the environment, we 
are committed to establishing and implementing strong 
sustainable practices. To make this an integral part of our 
culture, we give our employees opportunities to participate in 
our sustainability efforts through four employee-led working 
groups that champion different aspects of our sustainability 
efforts and lead the implementation of our activities.01 02
03 04
Employees Teaching Sustainability
30 Adelaide Street East, Toronto, ONGovernance
 
16Risk Management
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) at Dream is integrated 
with our risk management frameworks and is managed by 
our risk management group. 
ERM is overseen by the Governance & Nominating Committee of the DRM 
Board. The Director of Risk and Insurance reports annually to the following 
Board committees at each entity: the Governance & Nominating Committee 
at DRM; the Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee at 
MPCT.UN; the Compensation, Health and Environmental Committee at D.UN; 
and the Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee at DIR.UN.  
ERM at Dream is executed through procedures aimed at identifying, 
analyzing, responding to, managing and reporting on our exposure to 
risks. Through this process, risks are assessed based on their anticipated 
frequency, severity and likelihood, then either transferred, mitigated, or 
managed accordingly.  
Risk management for acquisitions, investments and developments is overseen 
by the Chief Operating Officers and Chief Executive Officers at both D.UN and 
DIR.UN, respectively, together with the Chief Financial Officers. For DRM and 
MPCT.UN, this is overseen by the President of Asset Management and Chief 
Responsible Officer of DRM together with the Chief Financial Officers. At each 
entity, acquisitions and developments involve collaboration with numerous 
teams, including the Risk Management and Technical Services departments.
Risk management activities include evaluating opportunities using both an 
Impact Investment Criteria Checklist to assess environmental, social and 
governance risks and opportunities, as well as a Due Diligence Checklist 
involving a more comprehensive set of risks, tailored for each opportunity. 
In acquisitions, Due Diligence Checklists involve assessments of building 
systems to determine the business case and payback associated with capital 
improvements that are required to enhance resource efficiency and add 
value to the investment. This is in addition to environmental site assessments 
conducted by the Risk Management department and its environmental 
consultants to identify, quantify, and manage potential environmental risks.Climate Change Risks
Climate change continues to attract the focus of governments and the 
general public as an important threat, given that the emission of greenhouse 
gases and other activities continue to negatively impact the planet. Investors 
increasingly view climate change as a critical concern, while tenants and 
residents continue to demand low-carbon, resilient properties.  
Dream is exposed to both the transition and physical risks of climate change. 
Transition risk is the risk that our properties will be subject to government 
regulations aimed at mitigating the impacts of climate change, such as 
greenhouse gas emissions reduction regulations, which could impose 
constraints on our operational flexibility or cause us to incur financial costs 
to comply with various reforms. Failure to adapt to climate change reforms 
could result in fines or adversely affect our reputation, operations or financial 
performance. Furthermore, our properties may be exposed to the impact of 
events caused by climate change, such as natural disasters and increasingly 
frequent and severe weather conditions; which we refer to as physical risks. 
Such events could interrupt our operations and activities, threaten our 
tenants, damage our properties and may potentially decrease our property 
values or require us to incur additional expenses, including increasing 
insurance costs against natural disasters and severe weather.  
Transition and physical climate risks are part of Dream’s ERM and are 
currently managed through acquisition due diligence, building performance 
analyses, capital improvements, environmental, health and safety 
inspections and environmental audits in standing investments, as well as 
environmental health and safety inspections for new acquisitions. Our 
proactive energy management practices enable Dream to mitigate the 
adverse impacts of new regulation, including compliance costs. We also 
manage our risks by purchasing insurance policies to cover our assets in the 
event of property damage arising from climate-related events. We insure our 
assets to their 100% true replacement cost value, including coverage for 24 
months of gross income. This mitigates Dream's exposure and ensures we are 
reasonably protected from potential losses.  
Energy and Water Management Risks 
Dream is focused on managing and operating our buildings and acquisitions 
as efficiently as possible to mitigate risks associated with escalating utility 
costs, shifting regulations and tenant preferences. We manage energy 
and water risks by conducting energy and water audits, and implementing 
applicable efficiency measures to reduce our consumption.Dream Unlimited Corp. 
Website  ↗2020 Annual Report ↗
Dream Impact Trust
Website  ↗2020 Annual Report ↗
Dream Office REIT 
Website  ↗2020 Annual Report ↗
Dream Industrial REIT 
Website  ↗2020 Annual Report ↗
For more information, please read our latest reports available on our website:Zibi
Ottawa, ON / Gatineau, QCGovernance
 
17Governance
 
Physical Climate Risks
We conduct analyses on an annual basis to identify physical climate risks in 
our portfolio and assess our level of resiliency. Climate resiliency describes 
our actions to prepare, adapt and endure the shocks and stressors we face 
related to climate change. The goal of climate resilience is to reduce the 
likelihood and impact of a catastrophic or disruptive event on our properties 
and in our communities.
Using third-party climate data, we assess the physical climate risk at each 
property across each of our entities, DRM, MPCT.UN, D.UN and DIR.UN, 
against the following hazards:
We are committed to improving the resilience of our properties against the 
effects of physical climate risks. Using this analysis, we will identify specific 
regions and properties with increased climate risk and identify opportunities 
to improve resilience through ongoing capital and operations investments.  
In addition, we have performed a flood and catastrophic loss risk assessment 
to determine which properties in our portfolio are at risk of losses from 50, 
100, 200 and 500-year floods.  
Based on the results, we are actively exploring developing site-specific plans, 
such as water damage mitigation plans and emergency plans for industrial 
properties at risk of windstorms. For example, our Zibi development, which 
is in a 50-year flood plain, has been designed to withstand 1,000-year 
flood risk. Going forward, our goal is to integrate standardized policies and 
procedures to further mitigate against physical climate risks across our 
portfolio. We believe this will also lead to lower insurance premiums and 
avoidance of stranded assets. 50-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)100-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)200-year 
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)
DRM(3)3 4,000,000 1 400,000 - - 1 37 ,000
MPCT.UN(4)- - 1 61,000 - - - -
D.UN - - 1 78,000 - - 1 228,000
DIR.UN 1 86,000 13 1,900,000 17 2,400,000 14 2,600,000
(1)  Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated in the figures in the other time categories. Changes from 2020 are the
result of acquisitions or dispositions of assets since the previous reporting year. As of September 30, 2021.
(2)  Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA).
(3)  Includes Dream Unlimited’s Canadian Income Properties, Arapahoe Basin, Willows in Saskatoon and Zibi at 100% of GLA as of September 30, 2021. 
(4)  MPCT.UN assets managed by D.UN were included in this assessment at 100% of GLA.Flooding
Wildfire
Windstorm
TornadoHailstorm   
Lightning 
Earthquake   
1602 Tricont Avenue,
Whitby Ontario
Zibi
Ottawa, ON / Gatineau, QCNumber of At-Risk Assets from Flooding(1)Cyber Risk
Dream is committed to cyber security and privacy through a 
combination of regular security awareness activities and use 
of next-generation protection technologies.
Our cloud strategy involves an in-depth design around user access rights 
which supports our data governance initiatives. We perform regular assurance 
activities, which include internal and third-party vulnerability scanning and 
assessments in order to manage exposure and risk. 
Our cyber security team monitors threats and attacks and has implemented 
preventative measures to ensure that all systems and employees are protected. 
We have a robust set of processes and procedures for incident management 
and resolution, supported by a cycle of continuous improvement. In addition, 
we have a mandatory cyber-awareness training program for all employees 
which ensures that they can detect and report malicious behaviour.
18Business Ethics
As one of Canada’s leading real estate 
organizations, Dream is committed to maintaining the highest standards as it relates to Board governance and ethical business conduct.
We are steadfast in our commitment to maintaining the 
highest business and personal ethical standards by dealing openly and honestly with each other and with our Directors, Trustees, investors, tenants and suppliers. We are also acutely aware of the laws and regulations that govern our conduct at work, in the marketplace and in our communities. 
The various policies governing business ethics and norms of behaviour at the Dream group of companies are developed by respective entity Boards. Compliance with these policies is the responsibility of all employees.  
Each Dream entity has a Code of Conduct which is 
reviewed annually. The Codes are our statement of the values and principles that guide us in our day to-day business activities. T he keystones of our Codes 
are: integrity, respect, fairness, accountability and transparency. The Codes support our commitment to 
operate our businesses at the highest level of legal, moral and ethical standards and they provide the overriding principles for all of our policies and our approach to business. Each entity’s Code of Conduct applies to all members of the organization, including Directors, Trustees, Officers and employees.   
Dream Unlimited Corp. 
Website  ↗Annual Information Form ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
DIA Code of Conduct ↗
Dream Impact TrustWebsite  ↗ Annual Information Form ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
DIA Code of Conduct ↗
Dream Office REIT Website  ↗ Annual Information Form ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
DIA Code of Conduct ↗
Dream Industrial REIT Website  ↗ Annual Information Form ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
DIA Code of Conduct ↗These Codes have guidelines for expected behaviours and 
practices in day-to-day business activities, and direct employees to report conflicts of interest to a manager. Conflicts of interests related to Directors, Trustees and Officers are disclosed in our Annual Information Forms, while related party transactions are disclosed in each entity’s financial statements.  Governance
Dream University Learning Session
30 Adelaide Street East, Toronto, ON
19Social
At Dream, our people set us apart. We take 
great pride in our workforce and know that 
investing in them creates long-term value for 
our company.
20How Our ESG  
Framework Applies
Our goal is to be an inclusive employer 
that fosters a workplace where diversity is 
recognized as our strength and all employees 
enjoy equal opportunities to unlock their 
potential and grow their careers.
The approximately 500 employees across our entities 
come from a variety of backgrounds and places, bringing 
valuable skills and perspectives to our team. Together, 
we are united by our company values and common 
purpose of Building Better Communities.  We believe that 
employees should have better lives because they work at 
Dream - both professionally and personally through the 
impact they have on the communities we are developing 
and through the knowledge that they are contributing to a 
better and more sustainable future. 
Material social topics that are key priorities for Dream are:
Community and NGO Partnerships
Diversity, inclusion, and advancement
Valuing employees
The following sections in this chapter will illustrate how 
we are addressing material social topics for Dream 
and provide examples of how our business contributes 
positively to social outcomes. 
Valuing Employees Diversity, Inclusion, and Advancement
Community and NGO Partnerships“Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, Dream has remained committed 
to flexibility, support, transparency and most importantly, the well-
being of our employees, their families and our communities in general. 
Over the past year and a half, we developed our Better Together Plans, 
our response to dealing with the pandemic and how we plan to safely 
welcome back employees, tenants and guests.  Through continued 
communication, we provided the information our employees needed 
to stay informed and supported while adhering to the best health and 
safety practices and standards.”
Gordon Wadley
Chief Operating Officer, Dream Office REIT 
Lead of Dream’s Pandemic Response Team
SR
Social
 
OE
21Our Approach
Employee development and engagement is managed by 
Dream’s People & Culture team, which serves all Dream 
entities. Our approach is guided by employee opinions to 
understand what makes working at Dream enjoyable and how 
best to improve their experience.  
Our People & Culture team works together with our Health 
& Safety team and Diversity, Inclusion and Advancement 
Committee to enhance engagement and employee 
development, as well as further embed wellness, diversity, 
inclusion, and advancement across all areas of the Dream 
employee experience. Employee development and engagement 
is governed by the Organization Design and Culture 
Committee of the DRM Board. 
Dream Group of Companies - Employee Summary
(1)  Includes only employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, Dream Industrial Management Corp. and Dream Office Management Corp and Dream Advisors
Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties, employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns.   
(2)  Numbers represented as total headcount, not full-time equivalent. 
(3)  Includes permanent part-time employees. 
(4)  Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week. Total Men WomenAge 
>30Age  
30-50Age  
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
CanadaUnited 
StatesEurope
New Hires(1)
2019 97 50 47 44 41 12 80 16 - 1
2020 68 41 27 19 40 9 55 9 - 4
Voluntary Turnover Rate(1) (2)
2019 16% 7% 9% 5% 9% 2% 12% 4% - -
2020 7% 4% 3% 2% 3% 2% 6% 1% - -2019 2020
Employee (1)(2) Total Men Women Total Men Women
Permanent(3)470 251 219 476 252 224
Contract 24 11 13 14 6 8
Full-time(4)488 259 229 486 255 231
Part-time 6 3 3 4 3 1Dream Group of Companies – New Hires and Turnover Rates
In 2020, Dream hired a total of 68 new full-time employees and had an overall voluntary turnover rate of 7%. The decrease in 
turnover rate from 2019 can be attributed to uncertainty caused by COVID-19, Dream’s commitment to no layoffs and a bonus 
payment to all employees earning under $100,000 annually at the beginning of COVID-19. Key Accomplishments
86% response rate achieved in our 2021 employee 
engagement survey 
Certified as a Great Place to Work®  in 2021  
Named one of Canada’s Best Employers  for Recent 
Graduates  in 2021 by The Career Directory 
Recognized as one of the  Best Workplaces for Giving 
Back  in 2021 by Great Place to Work
24 virtual events  were held to engage employees 
throughout the pandemic 
5 Dream employees  were awarded with Ethos Awards for 
living Dream values 
$13,400  donated to local foodbanks in lieu of holding 
annual holiday party as part of our Home for the Holidays 
employee initiative 
Social 
Employee 
Development & 
Engagement
We are focused on developing leaders throughout 
Dream by prioritizing internal hires and 
providing opportunities for personal and 
professional growth. 
(1)  Includes only employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, Dream Industrial Management Corp. and Dream Office Management Corp and Dream Advisors
Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties, employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns. 
(2)  Turnover is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2020. 
222019 2020
Tuition $72,229 $73,273
Professional fees $440,989 $351,982Dream Group of Companies - Employee 
Training and Development 
Employee Development
At Dream we strongly believe in developing future talent, 
which is why we have a strong internship program where 
we welcome a broad range of students from different 
backgrounds to experience our corporate environment and 
provide them an opportunity to learn practical skills relevant 
to their field of study. 
We hire students from different universities and colleges and are always 
proud to rehire past interns in full-time roles post-graduation. In addition 
to this, we are a Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA)  accredited 
organization which allows our employees to receive the accredited hours they 
require to obtain their CPA designation. Dream also has a 360 Rotational 
Analyst Program to develop up-and-coming talent by awarding them full time 
employment upon graduation after spending a summer term with Dream.  Employee Benefits
Dream’s benefits for full time employees and their dependents are effective 
starting day one of employment and boast a wide variety of competitive 
perks including a parental leave top-up program, annual bonuses, and 
retirement savings programs. Our People & Culture team are proactive about 
evolving our benefits program to prioritize employee health and wellbeing 
with flexible options to suit a variety of preferences. See below for more 
highlights of our employee benefits.
Health and Wellness:
Employee Assistance Program 
Telemedicine services 
Virtual counselling 
League platform: 
• Benefits concierge 
• Health programs and challenges 
• Wellness marketplace and discounts 
• Health and lifestyle spending accounts 
Learning and Development:
Up to $2,500 tuition reimbursement
Up to $500 reimbursement for textbooks per year 
Reimbursement of professional membership or designation fees 
Reimbursement for job-related training, seminars, or conferences 
Engagement:
Ethos employee award program for living Dream values 
Half-day Fridays before summer long weekends 
Bi-monthly virtual events, contests and activities, in lieu of in-person events due 
to COVID-19 
Donations, and volunteer work that impact our communities  Employee Engagement Survey
In 2021, we conducted an employee engagement survey to better understand 
employee satisfaction across a variety of topics. The survey was deployed 
by Great Place to Work Canada®, as part of our certification process to be 
recognized as a Great Place to Work®, and achieved an 86% completion rate. 
The Great Place to Work® certification is based upon the following factors:
 — The level of trust that employees have in leadership 
 — The level of pride employees have in their jobs 
 — The extent to which employees get along with colleagues 
The survey results provided our People & Culture team with meaningful 
insights regarding employees’ satisfaction with our benefit program and 
leadership’s communication throughout the pandemic. For example: 
84%  of respondents agreed that “the organization’s current health 
benefits program (Medical, Dental, Employee Assistance Program, 
Telemedicine, Health Spending Accounts, League etc.) meets or 
exceeds my needs"
97%  of respondents agreed that “Leadership has been keeping us 
informed of the emergency measures’ impact on the business during 
the COVID-19 pandemic"
96%  of respondents agreed that  “Leadership has kept me well-
informed of measures being taken by the organization to protect 
employees during the COVID-19 pandemic"In 2021, Dream was recognized  
by The Career Directory as one  
of Canada’s Best Employers  
for Recent GraduatesSocial
 
23Forward-looking Plans
Dream will continue to support employees 
during the COVID-19 pandemic and provide 
a safe return to the office. In addition, we are 
using the results of the employee engagement 
survey and focusing on the following new 
initiatives to enhance the Dream experience:
Not Myself Today
Not Myself Today is a new initiative Dream is preparing 
to roll out to invest in the mental health of our workforce. 
This initiative will complement our existing mental health 
benefits and programs such as our virtual counselling 
offering and mental health focused lunch and learns. 
Not Myself Today provides participating companies 
with tools and resources to build greater awareness and 
understanding of mental health, reduce stigma, and 
foster a supportive culture. The program offers support 
and expert resources developed by the Canadian Mental 
Health Association and will provide our People & Culture 
team with best-practice tools to engage, evaluate and 
educate the organization to strengthen our approach to 
mental health. 
Dream Exchange / Ten Thousand Coffees
In early 2022, our People & Culture team is planning to 
expand our Dream Exchange platform to include a ‘genius 
bar’ expert speaker series. This initiative will support 
employee engagement and development by providing 
opportunities for in-house subject matter experts to 
deliver custom presentations to an audience of interested 
colleagues and allow for all employees to benefit from the 
wealth of skill and knowledge that exists at Dream.
Case Study
Dream Exchange / Ten 
Thousand Coffees
In June 2021, Dream implemented a new mentorship program, 
prompted by employee feedback gathered through our diversity 
survey. Employees shared with us that they wanted more 
opportunities to connect with colleagues, as well as gain a stronger 
understanding of different parts of the company. In response, the 
People & Culture team partnered with Ten Thousand Coffees to 
launch Dream Exchange – a platform that employees can use to 
help expand their internal networks. The tool offers Dream staff 
the option to set up one-on-one connections based on professional 
topics of interest, as well as participate in small-group Q&A 
discussions with leadership.
OEValuing employeesSocial
 
Case Study
Dream 360 Program
Dream 360 is a rotation program that allows soon-to-be 
graduates to gain experience in various departments of a diverse 
real estate business. Successful applicants join us as summer 
analysts following their third year of post-secondary studies 
before joining Dream on a full-time basis upon completion of 
their fourth and final year of school. Program participants get to 
experience various groups within Dream including Investments, 
Development Finance, Asset Management, Financial Planning 
& Analysis, Strategic Finance and Portfolio Management. Each 
rotation is approximately one year long, and after two rotations 
analysts join one group in a permanent role. This competitive 
program allows participating analysts the flexibility to shape their 
experience at Dream, working with us to develop and identify 
their interests. 
OEValuing employees
24Social
Diversity, Inclusion & 
Advancement
At Dream we value Diversity, Inclusion and 
Advancement (DIA) for our workforce and 
communities. We believe in making our 
work environment and the communities in 
which we operate a space for all individuals 
to be their most authentic selves. This is 
best reflected through engagement in our 
four pillars: Listen, Learn, Action and 
Accountability. 
Listen
We hear the stories of our employees and stakeholders 
to understand the pulse around diversity, inclusion, 
advancement, and equity at Dream.Learn
We believe in constantly educating ourselves on best practices 
and ways to make our workforce and communities more inclusive.
Action
Not only do we say we want to accomplish things, we take 
actionable measures to ensure we are following through on 
our obligations.Accountability
We hold ourselves responsible by measuring and monitoring 
our goals and progress with data and analysis.
25Approach
Diversity, Inclusion and Advancement (DIA) 
at Dream is managed by the DIA Committee. 
The Committee membership includes 
employees of all levels, including C-suite, 
Directors, Managers, as well as our President 
and Chief Responsible Officer.
The DIA Committee is chaired by the Chief Operating 
Officer of Dream Office REIT and Dream Unlimited’s 
Director of Technology Operations. The Committee’s 
mandate is to learn, listen and develop best practices to 
enhance diversity and inclusion at Dream, as well as build 
accountability for advancing DIA across the business. 
Key Accomplishments
Completed our first diversity survey to provide us with a baseline 
measurement of our current status and provide focus and opportunities for 
success in the future 
Two-time honouree of the Globe and Mail’s Report on Business "Women 
Lead Here" program that benchmarks gender parity (2020 and 2021) 
Created the Dream DIA Commitment – our statement detailing what we 
stand for at Dream when it comes to diversity, inclusion and advancement 
Developed a new intranet site and external webpage dedicated to DIA 
initiatives and accomplishments 
Launched quarterly DIA training to help employees better understand 
and act on systemic racism, unconscious bias, race, colour, and gender 
discrimination  
Launched the Dream Exchange, our internal mentorship program that 
focuses on the advancement of all employees 
Provided two scholarships towards the Girls E-Mentorship (GEMs) Program 
and provided a summer internship for a GEMs student. GEM was founded 
in 2012 with the vision that all young women should have the opportunity 
to succeed despite where they come from or what barriers they have faced 
Enhanced our Employee Referral Program to provide employees an option 
to donate their referral bonus to a DIA charity 
Joined CREED Council as an industry partner. The aim of the CREED 
Council is to shift the equity and diversity conversation from talk to action 
through the creation of widely applicable tools, resources, programs, 
services and best practices that enhance inclusion in the workplace 
Provided 16,705 sq. ft. of free office space at our Eglinton Complex to 
the CEE Centre for Young Black Professionals for a 2-year term. This 
transaction equates to $425,000 in community benefit
In Spring 2021, Dream commissioned Saskatoon Community Youth Arts 
Programming (SCYAP) to create a mural celebrating Metis culture at 1st 
Avenue Parkade. SCYAP was established in 2001 as a non-profit that helps 
at-risk-youth through art, as well as cultural and employment programming  Social
 
26Community
The community workstream works towards giving back, 
promoting inclusivity and providing support to community-based 
organizations that are focused on under-served communities. We 
believe that it is fundamentally important to give back and support 
these communities.
DREAM Difference
Our DREAM Difference workstream focuses on opportunities to leverage 
our networks, partners and contractors in order to provide opportunities to 
those in the BIPOC Community. We also have a unique opportunity to pay it 
forward by supporting not-for-profit groups via providing accommodations 
and/or mitigating the cost of their rent. Please see the Social Procurement 
section [+] for further details.Recruitment
Our recruitment workstream focuses on continuing to hire diverse 
talent while removing unconscious bias during the hiring process. 
We also target a larger network by supporting community-based 
organizations to create pipelines to recruit, attract, expose and mentor 
underrepresented communities.
Advancement
Our advancement workstream works towards growing and 
developing our internal talent at all levels within Dream. In 
addition, we work externally to provide support and resources 
toward growth and access to employment opportunities. 
Performance
We measure our progress on diversity, inclusion and advancement 
in many ways. Most recently, in our 2021 employee engagement 
survey, our employees voluntarily self-disclosed diversity 
information which will act as our benchmark data. Through our 
activities, initiatives and programs we will strive to create an even 
more diverse workforce.We are committed to reviewing our practices and ensuring there are no gaps in how we operate. To do this 
effectively, we have focused on our four employee-led workstreams that aim to foster a more inclusive culture:
Dream Group of Companies - Gender Breakdown of 
Dream Employees and Governance Bodies:2019(1)2020(2)
Women Men Women Men
Employees(3)53+4747% 53%53+4747% 53%
Managers 53+4745% 55%53+4745% 55%
Executive Team 69+3131% 69%69+3130% 70%
DRM - Board of Directors 50+5050% 50%50+5050% 50%
MPCT.UN - GP & Trust Boards(4)57+4343% 57%40+6060% 40%
D.UN - Board of Trustees 57+4343% 57%50+5050% 50%
DIR.UN - Board of Trustees 75+2525% 75%75+2525% 75%
(1)  As of November 2020.
(2)  As of December 2021.
(3)  Includes employees at all levels. 
(4)  Includes members of both the GP and Trust Boards.Social
 
27Forward-looking Plans
Formalized Recruiting Framework
We believe in embracing diverse backgrounds, experiences, talents, 
and perspectives and that we are stronger when we create equitable 
opportunities for growth and advancement. To improve our diversity and 
inclusion practices in recruiting, Dream is working to create an inclusive 
hiring guide and provide anti-bias training and educational resources for 
managers. We are also working to enhance the accessibility of our hiring 
process, and are reviewing our external marketing with the aim to broaden 
and diversify our typical recruitment strategies. 
Voluntary Demographic Census
In the coming year, we are planning a voluntary demographic census. The 
census will allow employees to anonymously self-identify their race, ethnicity, 
disability status, sexual orientation and gender. This data will allow our 
People & Culture team to better tailor employee programs, as well as support 
our DIA Committee in understanding the makeup of our employee population. 
This data will be leveraged to guide organizational DIA efforts and address 
systemic inequities. 
Employee Resource Groups
Dream’s People & Culture team is working on launching Employee Resource 
Groups (ERGs), a new initiative to build community among employees 
and provide greater opportunities for organic learning experiences that 
contribute to both personal and professional development. ERGs may 
be convened around employee identity or experience such as female 
professionals, people of colour, young professionals, or new hires. ERGs can 
serve to benefit employees by creating opportunities to form supportive 
professional relationships outside of their teams or department.Diversity Survey
In 2020, we completed a milestone accomplishment: our first diversity 
survey. The insights gained from the survey will be used as a baseline to 
help measure the success of future DIA initiatives. The survey results show 
that a vast majority of Dream employees strongly agree that diversity and 
equity are essential for business success. We are encouraged by our results 
as we believe we are setting a high bar at the start of this journey. Our DIA 
Committee is looking forward to continuing to build on this accomplishment.  
Lunch & Learn Series
We believe that education is a key factor for us to understand our differences 
and commonalities. Enhanced education helps foster an environment that is 
open, inclusive and unbiased, which is why we offer workshops and training 
for our employees to share and learn from each other.  In 2020, we completed 
the planning for the launch of our 2021 Lunch & Learn Series which will cover 
a wide variety of social topics. 
3%
of employees identify 
as LGBTQ+29%
of employees identify 
as visible minorities
2%
of employees identify 
as Indigenous5%
of employees identify 
as having a disability
* Based on 86% of employees responding to survey.
* Data as of June 2021.35%
aged under 3551%
between the ages of 
35-5414%
over the age of 55Dream Group of Companies – Additional Diversity Metrics*
Pride Lunch and Learn  Webex Indigenous Education Lunch & Learn WebexSocial
 
28Social
Health and Safety 
Health and safety at Dream is collectively 
overseen by the Head of People & Culture 
and the VP of Property Management.
Day-to-day management of Health and safety is the 
responsibility of our Health and Safety Coordinator who 
is responsible for monitoring and tracking health and 
safety incidents, training requirements and implementing 
corporate and property level preventative measures. 
All levels of management work in consultation and 
cooperation with employees, Joint Health and Safety 
Committees, contractors and visitors to ensure that the 
requirements of Dream’s Health and Safety Policy, the 
Occupational Health and Safety Act, and other applicable 
legislation are met. 
All managers and supervisors are responsible and 
accountable for the health and safety of the individuals 
and workplaces under their oversight. They are expected 
to advise employees of the existence of potential or actual 
workplace hazards and ensure that employees work 
safely in accordance with the Occupational Health and 
Safety Act and its regulations, as well as all applicable 
Dream policies and procedures.  
Joint Health and Safety Committees and representatives 
are required to do regular inspections at various 
frequencies depending on what province they are 
located in. Our Health and Safety department receives 
a copy of each inspection and may direct concerns to 
supervisors, schedule follow-up inspections, or investigate 
any instances of non-compliance. We provide health and 
safety training for all employees, specific to their roles 
and job requirements. 
Key Accomplishments
Began updating National Corporate Health and 
Safety Program to ensure consistency throughout all 
divisions 
Created mandatory health and safety courses to be 
completed by all new Dream employees 
Updated tracking system to record all incidents, 
accidents, and inspection reports to continuously 
improve hazard assessment  
90%  of respondents in employee engagement 
survey reported that “Our organization has been 
providing adequate support for me to feel physically 
and emotionally safe during the COVID-19 crisis"
Performance 2019 2020
Lost-time injuries Near misses Lost-time injuries Near misses
Men 1 - 1 -
Women - - - -
Central Canada 1 - - -
Western Canada - - 1 -
Injury type(s) Saw dust in eye N/A Slip / trip -
Lost days 2 N/A 10 -
29RiskCheck Health and Safety Services 
Dream employs RiskCheck, Canada’s leading environmental 
health and safety risk management company, to perform 
annual inspections for our buildings in Ontario and quarterly 
checks across all of our buildings in Canada. RiskCheck’s 
services provide assurance that Dream complies with regional 
regulations related to all aspects of health and safety. 
RiskCheck also supports Dream’s Health & Safety teams in 
delivering, designing and implementing internal training and 
risk management programs to mitigate any risks identified in 
annual inspections.Forward-looking Plans 
Our Health & Safety team’s goals and objectives are to develop 
and implement a robust, standardized, and comprehensive 
Health and Safety program across Dream that meets and 
exceeds industry standards. To achieve this, we are working on:
Achieving 100% completion for health and safety training for 
operations employees and new employees
Launching an internal health and safety platform to share health 
and safety policies, forms and other health and safety topics in 
a convenient and central location for all employees
Conducting an annual review of our health and safety policies 
and procedures
Case Study
Rapid COVID-19 Screening
In May of 2021, we entered a pilot program with the Rotman 
Creative Destruction Lab to implement a voluntary rapid antigen 
screening program. The program is available to both corporate 
and operations employees. Employees who volunteer to participate 
are encouraged to test twice per week but can test more often if 
they wish. Test results are available in 15 minutes. The screening is 
self-administered under the supervision of a trained colleague who 
guides volunteers through the process. We opened our screening 
hub in June 2021 and as of September 2021 we had:
 — 143 volunteers participating in the program
 — 753 tests completed
Testing of operations employees who work on-site helps to keep our 
tenants safe. Read more about measures we are taking to ensure 
tenants can return to work safely in our Return to Operations plans ↗Case Study
HIVE App
HIVE is an app that allows us to help ensure the return to our 
corporate offices is done safely, while assisting employees with 
the transition to hybrid-work. The app houses our daily check-
in health questionnaire, where staff are prompted to self-assess 
for symptoms of COVID-19. HIVE also enables easy contact-
tracing, should we need to do so. Other features include helping to 
facilitate desk and space bookings, as well as allowing our teams 
to monitor office density. As of the publication of this report, we 
are trending at 90% reminder-less check-ins.
OEValuing employees
OEValuing employeesSocial
 
30Social
Volunteering & Giving 
We complement our community development projects with 
volunteering that supports vital social services and serves our 
communities’ most vulnerable populations.
Dream also encourages all employees to live our values by becoming involved 
with causes they care about. Employees are then evaluated on how well 
they lived the company’s values as part of the annual review process. Dream 
prioritizes charitable organizations both locally and nationally that support 
youth in sport, women in shelters, women’s health, youth services and 
homeless and marginalized communities. Each Dream entity also supports 
additional initiatives of their choosing.
Through our business and volunteering and giving initiatives, we are focused 
on improving the local economy and social fabric by supporting and 
partnering with local businesses and charities, contributing to community 
well-being and engaging citizens and our employees.
Our Approach
Regardless of position, tenure or title, we 
encourage every employee to do great things both 
inside and outside of the office. We recognize that 
some employees are active participants in their 
communities and want to help them give back. 
We offer employees:
One paid volunteering day  per year through our relationships with 
charitable organizations
$500 annually  through our employee donation program whereby 
we contribute to charitable organizations that employees are actively 
involved with 
$1,000   awarded to five recipients to contribute to a cause they believe 
in through our annual ETHOS awards peer nomination program
The option to donate all or part of their referral bonus to a charitable 
organization
“Social good is in our DNA. That’s why making an impact is one 
of our core company values. We seek to create positive social 
and environment change by running fundraisers, organizing 
campaigns or volunteering in the community.”
Cynthia Barria
Manager, Office Services
31In 2020, our local and National charitable 
partners include: 
Key AccomplishmentsThe Shoebox Project ↗
The Shoebox Project for Women collects and 
distributes gift-filled shoe-boxes to women impacted by 
homelessness in communities across Canada and the 
United States. Each thoughtfully created and decorated 
Shoebox is filled with items valued at $50 that can 
enhance self-esteem and reduce feelings of isolation for 
women in need.Minwaashin Lodge ↗
Minwaashin Lodge provides a range of programs and 
services to First Nations, Inuit and Métis women and 
children (regardless of status) who are survivors of 
domestic and other forms of violence.
Tropicana Community Services ↗
Tropicana Community Services offers a culturally 
aware and supportive program to those in need, with a 
predominant focus on the Caribbean, Black and African 
communities of Toronto. Rainbow Railroad ↗
Rainbow Railroad helps LGBTQ+ people escape state-
sponsored violence. Since 2006, Rainbow Railroad has 
helped more than 800 persecuted LGBTQ+ people from 38 
countries travel to safety.In 2021, Dream was named a 2021 
Best WorkplacesTM for Giving Back 
by Great Places to Work®
Case Study
Collect, Communicate and 
Share
We are proud of the work we do and the difference we can make 
in people’s lives. In 2020, we adopted an innovative approach 
to profile and support all the great community initiatives and 
programs we include in our annual sustainability report by 
developing the Collect, Communicate and Share program. As 
part of this program, we have committed to donate $1.00 per 
download of our sustainability report up to a maximum of 
$10,000 per year to support our charitable partners. 
SR
$800,000+
donated to charities by Dream group  
of companies
$2,500
donated to seven charities that provide assis-
tance to under-served communities in lieu of 
tenant gifts during the 2020 holiday season$10,000
donated from 2019 Sustainability 
Report downloads through our Collect, 
Communicate and Share program
$13,400
donated to local food-banks in lieu of holiday 
party as part of our Home for the Holidays 
employee initiativeCommunity / NGO partnershipsSocial
 
32Case Study
Front Line Dreamer
In lieu of holding a holiday party due to the ongoing COVID-19 
pandemic, Dream offered employees an option to thank front 
line employees through our Hero Program. Rather than receiving 
a holiday gift, an overwhelming amount of our staff chose to 
donate a $100 electronic gift card to front line employees to show 
their support for their hard work and dedication throughout the 
COVID-19 pandemic.  
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant impact 
on our ability to conduct volunteer or fundraising events with 
our charitable partners. At the same time, many charities are 
experiencing higher demand and staff and volunteer shortages. 
This pandemic has led us to re-examine our approach to 
volunteering and giving and we look forward to sharing more 
information on our future plans soon.Forward-looking Plans 
Dream is proud to have been able to 
continue to provide charitable support to 
our communities during the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
We continue to develop and implement initiatives to provide 
Dream employees different ways of giving back to their 
communities with time, money or items. We look forward to 
resuming higher levels of in-person volunteering and on-site 
fundraising events to help support post-pandemic recovery 
efforts in our communities.
In addition, we are developing community art programs 
in collaboration with local artists at properties as a way to 
inspire and bring communities together.Social
 
OEValuing employees
33Dream Group of Companies
Dream Unlimited Corp.
Dream Unlimited Corp. (TSX: DRM) is a innovative developer of exceptional office 
and residential assets in Toronto. DRM owns stabilized income generating assets in 
both Canada and the U.S. and has an established and successful asset management 
business, inclusive of $13 billion of assets under management. DRM has a proven 
track record for being innovative and for its ability to source, structure and execute 
on compelling investment opportunities. DRM is the asset manager for Dream 
Impact Trust and Dream Industrial REIT. 
$13 billion
assets under management(1)23,810
condominium and purpose-built rental units 
in the Dream group portfolio (including devel-
opment pipeline)(1)
11.7 million
sq.ft. of commercial / retail GLA across the 
Dream group portfolio(1)$40 billion 
of real estate transactions completed(1)
(1)  All figures as at September 30, 2021.
Canary District
Toronto, ON
3463%
waste diversion at Arapahoe Basin,  
an increase of 15% over 201913,937
metric tons of soil remediated  
at Zibi$761,065
donated to charities and NGOs  
in 2020$265,629
paid for employee tuition 
and professional fees(1)
Carbon  
Neutral
made progress toward 2025 goal of 
achieving 100% carbon neutral opera-
tions at Arapahoe Basin In 2021, Dream further expanded its impact platform by successfully 
launching one of the world’s first open-ended private funds dedicated 
exclusively to impact investing. With investments from some of Canada’s 
leading institutions and family offices, Dream Impact Fund shares a 
similar mandate to Dream Impact Trust, including the three impact 
verticals and the Impact Management System.
GIIN
DRM became a member of the Global 
Impact Investing Network (GIIN)
1st Impact  
Report
DRM published our first Impact Report ↗ 
that presents our approach to impact 
investing through the creation of the 
Dream Impact Management System 
and reports on our impact performance 
aligned with the leading impact 
framework, the Operating Principles for 
Impact Management
 Increased Data 
Collection
and disclosures of energy, GHG 
emissions and water data51+49
40+60of employees are women(1)49%
of managers are women(1)40%
(1)  Based on employees of Dream Asset Management Corporation, which includes employees of DRM and
MPCT.UN. Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties, employees on unpaid leaves of 
absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns. 43%
of executives are women(1)Dream Unlimited Corp.
2020 Highlights
40+60231
affordable units under construction 
at West Don Lands Block 8, with first 
occupancies expected in 2023Protected 
Employees
by ensuring rigorous health and 
safety measures were taken during the 
COVID-19 pandemic96%
employee response rate for employee 
engagement satisfaction survey Environmental Social Governance 
Signatory
DRM became a signatory to the 
International Finance Corporation’s 
Operating Principles for Impact 
Management
Developed ESG 
Framework
DRM's new ESG Framework sets out the most 
material sustainability topics and how we are 
responding based on the type of asset class 
and specific objectivesNet Zero
Started construction on our permanent 
Zibi Community Utility ("ZCU" or the 
"District Energy System") plant which 
will enable zero-carbon heating and 
cooling at our Zibi development
Increased  
Biodiversity
of plants and animals as well as 
reintroduced native vegetation at Zibi
35Indicator(1)2020
Energy
Energy consumption (ekWh)(2) 21,131,324
Energy intensity (ekWh / sq. ft.)(3) 64
Water(3) 
Water consumption (m³) 33,833
Emissions(2)(4)
Scope 1 emissions (tCO2e) 2,338
Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 2,038
Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2; tCO2e) 4,376
Dream Unlimited Corp.
ESG Scorecard
(1)  2019 data is not available. We continue to improve our data collection processes and coverage for transparency and comparability purposes. 
(2)  Data covers only the Broadview Hotel, Distillery District and Arapahoe Basin Ski Resort. 
(3)  Data covers only the Broadview Hotel and Distillery District. 
(4)  GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the World Resource Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol. They capture activities DRM has direct and
indirect operational control over:
Scope 1 emissions generated directly from its operations, including heating at Impact’s properties.
Scope 2 emissions indirectly associated with generation of purchased electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumed by properties.
ESG Scorecard
The Distillery District,
Toronto, ON
Goals
Starting in 2022, target LEED Gold or One 
Planet Living certification as a minimum 
building standard for all new construction 
high-rise office wholly owned and developed 
by DRM
By 2023, create DRM's Construction 
Waste Management Guideline for new 
developments  (applicable to all high-rise 
office and apartment construction, wholly 
owned and developed Dream)
By 2026, collect energy, water, waste 
data as well as measure and disclose 
greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1 and 2) 
and intensities, for all operational properties 
within DRM's defined boundary
36How Our ESG Framework 
Applies to DRM
The following sections in this chapter will 
illustrate how we are addressing material ESG 
topics for DRM and provide examples of how 
our business contributes positively to social 
and environmental outcomes.
ESG topics that are a key priority for DRM are:Key Accomplishments
Within the real estate industry there is general agreement that in order for countries 
to meet the Paris Agreement all buildings will need to emit net zero GHG emissions 
by 2050. Leadership is needed to show the industry how this will be achieved sooner 
rather than later. 
In 2021, we launched our Net Zero Steering Committee and announced our net zero 
goals for each Dream entity. 
Dream’s overarching commitment to Building Better Communities requires us to 
address climate change. Beyond the ESG metrics, targets and impact verticals 
built into each of our projects, we are committed to an overall net zero approach to 
reducing carbon emissions in line with international standards and commitments. We 
look forward to sharing our net zero strategy in 2022, which will include best-in-class 
methodologies, science-based interim targets, road-maps and reporting requirements.  
In 2021, DRM became a signatory to three voluntary international initiatives to 
demonstrate our commitment to climate action and responsible investing: 
DRM, on behalf of the Dream group of companies, joined the Net Zero Asset Managers 
(NZAM) Initiative ↗ ,which is a group of international asset managers committed to 
supporting the goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, in line with 
global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. 
DRM, on behalf of the Dream group of companies, signed onto the United Nations 
Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) ↗ , which includes a group of more than 4,300 
investment managers and asset owners from nearly 90 countries committed to developing a 
more sustainable global financial system.
DRM became an official supporter of the Task Force for Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) ↗  which provides guidance and recommendations to help companies 
provide better climate disclosures to support capital allocation. More than 2,300 companies 
support the TCFD and Dream is one of the first Canadian public real estate companies to 
become an official supporter.DRM  has committed to be net zero 
by 2035 for operations and new 
developments, including Scope 1, 2 and 
select Scope 3 emissions
Brighton,
Saskatoon, SKFR SR OE BP —Sustainable development
 —Carbon and resource 
efficiency
 —Attainability
 —Connectivity —ESG impact and 
management
 —Sustainable procurement
 —Diversity, inclusion and 
advancementDream Unlimited Corp .
 
37Dream Unlimited Corp.
Our ESG Approach
We have always managed our  business with 
a focus on environmental responsibility 
and creating inclusive communities for 
our residents, tenants and employees while 
generating strong financial returns.
We have a legacy of building communities that showcase 
best practices in sustainability. We strive to make positive 
impacts on the natural environment and the communities 
in which we operate, work and live. Our communities cater 
to buyers and tenants seeking a green, urban lifestyle 
where transit and public spaces have premium value. 
Whether we are building new communities, making new 
investments or operating our existing assets, we always 
aim to integrate sustainability into our practices for our 
customers, tenants, employees and home-buyers. 
We are committed to building inclusive and equitable 
communities. This includes creating sustainable communities 
that reduce socio-economic inequalities and effectively 
manage resource consumption and production. Often, 
we have done this in partnership with various levels of 
government to support individuals in under-served groups. 
Building a better community is bigger than our organization 
and the assets we develop, it encompasses society at large 
and the cities in which we live and operate.
DRM has policies covering activities across the value chain 
including our Building Standards Manual for developments, 
our Guide to Sustainable Building Operations, and our 
Tenant Sustainability Handbook for customer relations. 
Alpine Park,
Calgary, ABCase Study
Sustainable Living  
at Alpine Park 
Nestled under an 11-acre ridge-line that provides scenic mountain 
and prairie views, Alpine Park ↗ is an over 600-acre community 
that offers a unique blend of natural and urban living. We believe 
the future of community-building isn’t in technologies alone, 
but in connections to the people and the environment around 
us. Alpine Park is Dream’s first step of Calgary’s new West End 
expansion and provides both a green and urban lifestyle. Some 
highlights of the development include:
 — A charming Village Centre with inspiring public art, curated 
shops and inviting cafes that turn daily routines into 
opportunities for connection
 — Street-oriented housing with attractive, varied architecture 
favouring porches over poured driveways 
 — Wide paths, safely set back from the street weave through 
beautiful green court parks 
 — Efficient automobile use, without allowing cars to dominate 
the environment 
 — Located close to major highways, maintaining the 
connection to the heart of downtown Calgary 
 — Cherishes its natural surroundings with multi-use trails, 
respectful of environmental features 
BP FRSustainable development
Connectivity
38Dream Unlimited Corp.
Environmental
Sustainable Development
Dream is committed to integrating sustainability into the 
design, construction and operations of all our buildings. 
We consult with the public to identify community needs that can be 
incorporated into the overall development plan prior to starting the application 
process. We also work with leading urban designers and master community 
planners to create attractive, community-oriented and environmentally 
sustainable concepts.
These include:
Creating inclusive and vibrant urban communities that people are proud to live 
and work in 
Building long-term affordable housing in prime locations close to transit and 
employment of which a minimum of 10% will be accessible(1)
Integrating market and affordable units to create diverse, mixed-income, family 
focused communities 
Committing to sustainable design in urban centres 
Partnering with Indigenous communities 
Integrating our communities into the natural environment by building around 
important environmental amenities and using native plants and grasses 
Design inclusive spaces for all users including accessible units
Zibi
Gatineau, QC / Ottawa, ON
(1)  At Zibi Block 10, and West Don Lands Blocks 8 & 3/4/7.
Highlights
9M sq.ft.  of GLA targeting green building 
certification of LEED Silver or higher
6.5M sq.ft.  of GLA under development 
with construction waste diversion targets, 
preference for recycled/recyclable materials 
and preference for low carbon materials
18,000 sq.ft.  of green roofs at 
Brightwater development
39How does sustainability factor into your day-to-day role and 
responsibilities at Dream?
Sustainability has always been a part of my day-to-day role at Dream and 
it underpins many of our decisions. In 2019, the building and construction 
industry was responsible for close to 38% of total global energy related 
carbon emissions as stated by the 2020 Global Status for Buildings and 
Construction↗ . At Dream, we realize the urgency of the problem and are 
driven to be part of the solution with aspirational goals operationalized 
through our day-to-day decisions. 
Our Development team constantly learns from and works collaboratively with 
internal and external stakeholders towards designing, building, and owning 
inclusive, financially sustainable, and environmentally regenerative assets. 
The team is mindful of our carbon footprint throughout the life-cycle of our 
developments, and we ensure our lands are being remediated with minimal 
waste and impact on biodiversity. We are also mindful of the materials we 
use and are working towards eliminating, reducing, or replacing carbon 
intensive products. It is our belief that creating and preserving green spaces, 
as well as designing and constructing healthy and energy efficient buildings 
is critical to creating communities where our residents and tenants can thrive. 
What are your future goals as it relates to sustainable 
development at Dream?
Reducing our carbon footprint is one of my top goals at Dream. I think that 
as an industry, real estate has a long way to go in reducing carbon emissions 
and managing healthy and smart buildings. We need to work collaboratively 
and with urgency. This creates a huge opportunity for innovation, unlocking 
of values and for new leaders to rise. Dream is an emerging thought leader. 
Our area of focus in our developments is moving towards net zero embodied 
carbon emissions, enhancing our social procurement strategy, and 
supporting a regenerative economy. We continuously learn from and work 
with our suppliers to understand the progress made in concrete, alternatives 
to steel, and other sustainable technology and materials.
How does sustainable design and development improve 
environmental and social outcomes?
I think intentionality combined with transparency and accountability lead to better 
environmental and social outcomes. When we acquired 262 Jarvis, an existing 
apartment building, our impact and asset strategy was clear - align with our 
impact verticals: sustainability and resilience, attainable and affordable housing 
and inclusive communities. Our plan was to retrofit with a goal to decarbonize the Interview
Tsering Yangki
Integrating sustainability considerations into 
development and constructionTsering Yangki
Head of Real Estate Finance & DevelopmentDream Unlimited Corp.  
 
asset and preserve affordability while ensuring market returns. This intentionality 
allowed us to design our community programs, offer affordable units and minimize 
our carbon footprint. Using key performance indicators, we can measure, manage 
and report the environmental and social outcomes for each project.
Zibi is another great example of this approach. As stated in the (One Planet 
Report↗)  the 10 principles from the One Planet Living Framework which range 
from Zero Carbon and Waste to Health and Happiness, underpin our 34-acre 
community in Ottawa/Gatineau. We measure the reduction of embodied carbon 
in our materials and products based on the percentage of recycled content and/
or materials that are locally sourced. As of 2020, raw materials used in concrete 
production in our projects now meet LEED requirements..
Why is diversity, inclusion and advancement important for 
real estate?
As a woman and a minority at a leading real estate development firm, I am 
mindful of the challenges, my privilege, and recognize my responsibility in 
ensuring I make space for inclusion, engagement and empowerment. If you 
have a culture of inclusion, diversity naturally follows. Inclusivity is a powerful 
force that unlocks value and strengthens business. Inclusivity-perspectives, 
lived experiences, etc. - in the composition of the decision makers as we 
design and construct is imperative for us in real estate, as we are building 
for all residents and tenants as well as for future generations. It’s a long path 
ahead but I am optimistic in where we are heading.  
I recall a conversation with a colleague who mentioned she was the only 
woman during a design development workshop. She noted it was a beautiful 
mixed-income and mixed-use development with lush, towering bushes for 
privacy. She noted that as a young woman walking home at night, she 
would feel safer if the community’s green spaces were more open. Her peers 
incorporated that perspective, allowing for a more livable and inclusive 
community.  
What drives you to care about environmental issues so 
deeply?
I was born and grew up in a small refugee settlement in India, where there 
was shortage of a lot, even basic clean water! Many in my community, 
including myself, have touched melting glaciers and know families displaced 
due to climate change. That is a lived experience that defines my personal 
and professional life. My parents grounded me with the values of compassion 
and interdependence, be it people or planet, so being intentional on 
environmental stewardship is personal to me.
40* Metrics reported are based on Arapahoe Basin’s reporting period October 1 – September 30.2018 2019 20202025  
Target
Waste Diversion* 50% 48% 63% 75%
Renewable 
Electricity*46% 48% 53% 100%Water Management
DRM is committed to reducing water consumption at our properties through 
preventative maintenance programs. Our Water Conservation Policy sets 
forth objectives that support this goal, including monitoring major water 
consuming equipment through building management systems, leak reporting 
through our tenant service program, routine inspections by staff, installing 
low flow water fixtures during washroom renovations, and monitoring 
landscape irrigation using rain sensors and control timers.
Brighton,
Saskatoon, SKArapahoe Basin Kids Center,
Dillon, CODream Unlimited Corp.  
 
Energy Management 
DRM is committed to using energy in an efficient, cost effective and 
environmentally responsible manner. Our Energy Policy sets forth objectives 
that support this goal, including benchmarking energy use at all facilities, 
meeting our energy reduction targets, enrolling in demand response 
programs and educating employees and tenants on energy conservation.Case Study
Update on Arapahoe Basin’s 
2025 Sustainability Targets
In 2018, Arapahoe Basin implemented a strategic sustainability 
plan and road-map to achieve completely carbon neutral 
operations by 2025. Despite the unprecedented 2019/2020 
ski season which saw our operations close at the onset of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, sustainability remained a constant focus 
and we continue to make steady progress toward our 2025 goals.
FR OECarbon and resource efficiency
ESG impact and management
Arapahoe Basin’s 2020 key 
accomplishments include:
 — 18% increase from 2019 in solar production from 
on-site solar arrays 
 — Completed a major water efficiency project 
resulting in significant reductions in overall water 
usage and associated emissions 
 — Achieved highest landfill diversion rate to date 
due to the recycling efforts relating to the chairlift 
replacement projects 
 — Arapahoe Basin Sustainability Report↗→
41Case Study
Reducing Waste at  
Arapahoe Basin
Waste reduction is an accessible way to get involved in sustainable 
action and a significant focus in the community where Arapahoe 
Basin operates in Summit County. 
 — Recycling and composting bins are provided alongside all 
waste bins
 — Staff are encouraged to bring compost and recycling from 
home
 — Unique strategies are employed to divert any and all 
material we can from the landfill
These efforts all contribute to Arapahoe Basin’s goal of carbon 
neutral operations by 2025. 
FR OENumber of At-Risk Assets from Flooding(1)
DRM(3) 50-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)100-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)
3 4,000,000 1 400,000
200-year 
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)
- - 1 37 ,000
(1)  Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated
in the figures in the other time categories. Changes from 2020 are the result of acquisitions or 
dispositions of assets since the previous reporting year. As at September 30, 2021.
(2)  Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA).
(3)  Includes Dream Unlimited’s Canadian Income Properties, Arapahoe Basin, Willows in
Saskatoon and Zibi at 100% of GLA. Physical Climate Risks
We conduct analysis on an annual basis to identify physical climate risks 
in our portfolio and assess our level of resiliency. Climate resiliency describes 
the actions to prepare, adapt and endure the shocks and stressors we 
face related to climate change. The goal of climate resilience is to reduce the 
likelihood and impact of a catastrophic or disruptive event on our properties 
and in our communities. 
Using third-party climate data, we assessed the physical climate risk at each 
property in DRM’s portfolio against the following hazards:   
We are committed to improving the resilience of our properties from the 
effects of physical climate risks. Using this analysis, we will identify specific 
regions and properties with increased climate risk and identify opportunities 
to improve resilience through ongoing capital and operations investments. 
As part of the physical climate risk analysis, we have updated the flood risk 
and catastrophic loss risk assessment in 2021 to identify properties in our 
portfolio that are at risk of losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year floods. Our 
next step in this process is to develop a plan to increase resilience to flooding 
and water damage and ensure there are supporting emergency management 
and business continuity procedures in place. Dream Unlimited Corp.  
 
Carbon and resource efficiency
ESG impact and management
Arapahoe Basin Ski Resort
Dillon, COFlooding
Wildfire
Windstorm
TornadoHailstorm   
Lightning 
Earthquake   
42Dream Unlimited Corp.
Social
Dream’s strength as an organization comes 
from our strong and diverse workforce. 
Our employees possess expertise in a wide variety 
of areas that benefit our business, from real estate 
management and development to capital markets, risk, 
insurance and many more. Our people come from a 
wide range of backgrounds and places, bringing many 
valuable skills and perspectives to our team. The people 
we hire all have one thing in common: they share our 
company values and contribute to our company culture. 
Total Men WomenAge 
Under 30Age  
30-50Age  
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
Canada
New Hires(1)22 16 6 9 10 3 20 2
Voluntary 
Turnover Rate(2) 10% 5% 5% 3% 6% 1% 9% 1%
(1)  Based on employees of Dream Asset Management Corporation, which includes employees of DRM and MPCT.UN. Does not include employees at Dream recreational
properties,employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns. 
(2) Turnover is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2020.DRM - Employee Summary
(1)  Based on employees of Dream Asset Management Corporation, which includes employees of DRM and MPCT.UN. Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties,
employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns.
(2)  Numbers represented as total headcount, not full time equivalent.
(3)  Includes permanent part-time employees.
(4)  Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week.Employee (1)(2) Total Men Women Central Canada Western Canada
Permanent(3)187 95 92 126 61
Contract 9 4 5 4 5
Full-time(4)193 97 96 128 65
Part-time 3 2 1 2 1
   
Gender Breakdown
New Hires and Turnover Rates61+39
56+4451+49Employees*
Managers
Executive Team
49%  Women
40% Women
43% Women51% Men
60% Men
57% Men
 *Includes employees at all levels.As of December 31, 2020, the average length of 
service for DRM employees is 4.2 years.
43Case Study
The Broadview Hotel
The Broadview Hotel is an example of our social procurement 
strategy in action. The hotel collaborates with the community 
to support local artists, social entrepreneurs and independent 
businesses through the sourcing of various hotel products and 
services, such as skincare, mini-bar items, vinyl records, coffee 
and chocolate. This year, we will be expanding to include a 
specific focus on BIPOC and women-owned businesses.
OE SRSocial Procurement  
at Dream 
DRM aims to develop local supply chains to 
minimize our environmental footprint and 
create local jobs. 
Our new program, The Dream Difference, will establish a 
clear, intentional and equity-focused strategy for social 
procurement to leverage and influence our entire supply 
chain. As a start, Dream is creating a request to suppliers 
and contractors to highlight their company diversity 
programs.
For further information please see our  
Social Procurement Brochure ↗
Case Study
Indigenous Hub
Canary Block 10 is an innovative development in Toronto’s 
Canary District that we are working on in partnership with 
Anishinábe Health Toronto. Canary Block 10 is a mixed-use 
project that will house the first purpose-built Indigenous Hub in 
a major North American city. The development will be composed 
of a 238-unit condominium building, a 206-unit residential 
rental building, heritage retail space, a community health centre 
and a mixed-use commercial building that includes a training, 
education and employment centre, offices for Indigenous-owned 
businesses and a city daycare. The five-building development will 
be built to a LEED Gold Standard and draws from Indigenous 
architectural and design influences to foster a lasting spirit of 
diversity and inclusivity. 
Anishinábe Health Toronto is a community health centre with 
the mission to improve the health and well-being of Indigenous 
People in spirit, mind, emotion and body by providing Traditional 
Healing within a multi-disciplinary healthcare model.
Canary District
Toronto, ON
The Indigenous Hub project is expected to deliver the following 
environmental and social impacts:
 —  Reduction of energy consumption by 31% compared to the building code
 — Reduction of GHG emissions by 38% compared to the building code
 — Reduction of potable water consumption by 35% compared to market standard
 — Increased access to healthcare will improve the overall effectiveness of health services
 — Fully funded education, health and childcare centre to support the local 
Indigenous community
→Dream Unlimited Corp.  
 
Sustainable procurement
Diversity, inclusion and advancementSustainable development
Indigenous engagement SR FR
44Dream Unlimited Corp.
Governance
As part of the ESG Framework, DRM links ESG performance to executive  
and employee goals and compensation.
Sustainability at DRM is managed by the following:  
* As of December, 2021.Role Responsibilities
Chief Responsible Officer; President of Asset Management Provide oversight of sustainability and ESG at DRM
Governance and Nominating Committee Provide oversight of environmental property risks
Organization Design and Culture Committee Provide oversight of corporate culture and employee satisfaction
Leaders and Mentors Committee Provide oversight of diversity and inclusion at all levels of organization
ESG Executive CommitteeAdopt ESG framework for each Dream entity
Communicate sustainability strategy and commitment across company and key 
external stakeholders 
Delegate implementation to the Sustainability and ESG team
Report to the Governance and Nominating Committee
Vice Chair, DevelopmentManage the implementation of sustainable practices in the design of select 
development projects, including the Distillery District, Broadview Hotel, Canary 
District and West Don Lands
Head of Impact Investments and StrategyResponsible for the execution of Dream's impact pathways, which includes delivering 
specified, measurable outcomes for specific social and environmental goals 
Identify opportunities with external stakeholders and community partners to further 
advance DRM's impact initiatives and broader community objectives
Sustainability and ESG TeamOversee and manage portfolio sustainability initiatives including building 
certifications, energy, water and waste management and monitoring, as well as 
strategic initiatives
Meet quarterly with the ESG Executive Committee
Sustainability Working Groups Serve as a forum to share information across departments and groups
Sustainability Manager, Arapahoe Basin Ski Area Manage the implementation of site-specific sustainability plans and objectives
Program Manager, Sustainability at Zibi Manage the implementation of site-specific sustainability plans and objectives
Governance and Nominating Committee Members
Vincenza Sera
ChairRichard Gateman
MemberJennifer Lee Koss
Member
25+75
50+5075% of DRM Directors 
are independent*
50% of DRM Directors 
are women*
For the second consecutive year, Dream Unlimited Corp. is a 
recipient of the Globe and Mail’s "Women Lead Here" award. 
With 50% of our Board, 43% of our executives, 40% of our 
managers, and 49% of our employees being women,we are 
proud to be recognized for our leadership in corporate Canada.
45Forward-looking Plans 
We will continue to manage our business with a focus on 
impact investing and ESG integration. As a signatory to 
the OPIM and the UN PRI, we aim to increase the number of 
investments that incorporate social and environmental impact 
investing principles and continue to incorporate ESG factors 
into our investment and ownership decisions as we go forward.  
We Will Do this Through:
 — Publishing our second Impact Report 
 — Identifying opportunities for employees in all entities to 
contribute to impact 
 — Iterating and enhancing the impact framework for MCPT.
UN based on the OPIM 
 — Prepare for participating in the UN PRI Reporting & 
Assessment Framework, starting in 2023  
DRM Key Priorities Include:
 — Apply the Digital Transformation standard, which was developed 
to future-proof our assets information and operational 
technology infrastructure, to new construction projects
 — Conduct tenant and resident satisfaction surveys regularly 
and track and report response rate and scores 
 — Increase use of green and impact leases 
 — Link ESG performance to executive goals and compensation As one of the Dream Group of Companies, DRM is 
Committed to:
Communicating our Plan to Reach Net Zero by 
2035 
DRM has committed to net zero GHG emissions by 2035 – 
fifteen years ahead of the Paris Agreement’s 2050 goal. With 
the Zibi development and Arapahoe Basin leading the way, we 
will be taking a similar approach with each of our properties, 
guided by our overall net zero strategy. Over the next year we 
will communicate a thoughtful and specific strategy on how 
we will achieve this overarching goal with a detailed plan and 
annual milestones to reduce our Scope 1, Scope 2, and select 
Scope 3 emissions.
Beginning to Fulfill NZAM Commitments
In 2021, DRM became a signatory to the Net Zero Asset 
Managers Initiative. In 2022, DRM will be setting interim 
targets for 2030.  
Evaluating UN PRI Readiness
DRM became a UN PRI signatory in 2021. In 2022, we will 
prepare for participating in the UN PRI Reporting & Assessment 
Framework, starting in 2023.
Increasing Alignment with the TCFD 
Recommendations
In 2021, DRM became an official supporter of the TCFD 
recommendations. We support the development of consistent 
climate disclosures and will develop a plan for DRM to 
systematically assess climate change risk, in line with TCFD 
recommendations.Dream Unlimited Corp.  
 
Fact BoxFact BoxFact Box
Operating Principles for Impact Management↗
DRM is a signatory to the Operating Principles for Impact 
Management, acting in our capacity as the asset manager for 
Dream Impact Trust. Over time, further assets or entities under 
our asset management umbrella may be added to the assets that 
align with this standard for impact investors.United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment ↗
The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN 
PRI) is the world’s leading responsible investor collaboration. It 
supports its signatories to incorporate environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) factors into their investment and ownership 
decisions. Signatories commit to follow UN PRI’s six principles and 
report annually on their progress through the UN PRI Reporting 
Framework. DRM became a signatory to the UN PRI in 2021 and 
will report on our responsible investment activities starting in 2023. 
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures↗ 
In 2017, the Financial Stability Board established the Taskforce 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to provide 
guidance and recommendations on climate-related risk and 
opportunity disclosures. The TCFD recommendations are 
structured around four core reporting areas: governance, 
strategy, risk management and metrics and targets. More 
than 2,300 organizations support the TCFD. DRM became an 
official supporter in 2021.NZAM↗
The Net Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) Initiative is an alliance of 
global asset managers committing to supporting the goal of net 
zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, in line with 
the global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The 
initiative has 128 signatories and $43 trillion in assets under 
management. DRM joined the NZAM initiative in 2021 and there 
are currently fewer than 10 Canadian signatories.GIIN↗
DRM is a member of the Global Impact Investing Network 
(GIIN). The GIIN is the leading non-profit dedicated to 
increasing the scale and effectiveness of impact investing. 
Impact investments are made into companies, organizations, 
and funds with the intention to generate social and 
environmental impact alongside a financial return. Impact 
investments can be made in both emerging and developed 
markets and target a range of returns from below market 
to market rate, depending upon the circumstances. Our 
membership signifies a commitment to deepening our 
engagement in the impact investing industry.
The Impact Management Project↗ 
The Impact Management Project (IMP) is a forum of over 2,000 
practitioners as well as a structured network of 16 standard-
setting organizations for building global consensus and 
providing complete standards on how to measure, manage and 
report impacts. The IMP has reached a consensus that impact 
can be measured across five dimensions: What, Who, How 
Much, Contribution, and Risk. These measurement dimensions 
have been incorporated into Dream’s Impact Scoring System.
Zibi
Gatineau, QC / Ottawa, ON
46Dream Group of Companies
Dream Impact Trust
Dream Impact Trust (MPCT.UN) targets projects that create positive and lasting 
impacts on communities and the environment, while generating attractive financial 
returns. MPCT.UN provides investors with access to an exceptional portfolio of real 
estate development and income properties that would not otherwise be available in a 
public and fully transparent vehicle.
$677.2 million 
total assets(1)
29
assets(1)566,000
square feet of gross leasable 
area (GLA)(1)(2)
84.8%
portfolio occupancy (including 
committed)(1)
(1)  As of September 30, 2021 
(2)  The Gross Leasable Area (GLA) includes Sussex Centre at Dream Impact Trust's 50.1% share, 10 Lower
Spadina, 349 Carlaw, 49 Ontario, 68-70 Claremont and 76 Stafford. 
West Don Lands
Toronto, ON90+1090 GRESB Score
6,358
units under development or in our development 
pipeline (at MPCT.UN’s share)(1)
47(1)  Excludes developments.
(2)  Includes employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, which includes DRM and MPCT.UN
employees. Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties, employees on leaves of absence 
(e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) and interns.
The LEED® certification trademark is owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and is used with permission.$761,065
donated to charities and NGOs by 
DRM, MPCT.UN’s asset managerEnvironmental Social Governance 
90%
of operating income office assets 
certified to BOMA Best and/or LEED 
building certifications(1)Net Zero
Started construction on our permanent 
Zibi Community Utility ("ZCU" or the 
"District Energy System") plant which 
will enable zero-carbon heating and 
cooling at our Zibi development
13,937
metric tons of soil were remediated  
at Zibi$265,629
paid for employee tuition and 
professional fees(2)GIIN
DRM, MPCT.UN’s asset manager, 
became a member of the Global Impact 
Investing Network (GIIN)Five Star  
Rating
achieved by MPCT.UN on its  
first GRESB submissionMPCT.UN was the first public impact company in 
Canada and has openly committed to positively effecting 
environmental and social change through its role as a 
real estate owner, developer and operator. 
LEED Gold
certification was achieved at 
Sussex Centre located at 50 and 
90 Burnhamthorpe Rd. West in 
Mississauga in 2021
51+49
40+60of employees are women(2)51%
of managers are women(2)40%231
affordable units under construction 
at West Don Lands Block 8, with first 
occupancies expected in 2023Dream Impact Trust
2020 Highlights
96%
employee response rate for employee 
engagement satisfaction survey 
Protected  
Employees
by ensuring rigorous health and 
safety measures were taken during the 
COVID-19 pandemicFirst
Canadian Impact-Dedicated Convertible 
Debenture Offering in 202190+1090
Signatory
DRM, MPCT.UN’s asset manager, 
became a signatory to the International 
Finance Corporation’s Operating 
Principles for Impact ManagementDeveloped ESG 
Framework
MPCT.UN's new ESG Framework sets out the 
most material sustainability topics and how 
we are responding based on the type of asset 
class and specific objectivesIncreased Data 
Collection
and disclosures of energy, GHG 
emissions and water data
Increased  
Biodiversity
of plants and animals as well as 
reintroduced native vegetation at Zibi
48Indicator 2025 Target 2019(7)2020(7)YOY % 
Change(7) On track for 
target
Energy(1)
Energy consumption (ekWh) 15% reduction of energy consumption 
by 2025 versus 2019 baseline22,455,431 19,251,096 -14% √
Energy intensity (ekWh / sq. ft.) 22.96 19.69 -14%
Emissions(1)(2) 
Scope 1 emissions (tCO2e) 1,390 986 -29%
Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 440 412 -6%
Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2; 
tCO2e)10% reduction of emissions by 2025 
versus 2019 baseline1,830 1,398 -24% √
GHG emissions intensity   
(kgCO2e / sq. ft.)1.9 1.4 -24%
Water(1)
Water consumption (m³) 10% reduction of water consumption by 
2025 versus 2019 baseline62,358 37,809 -39% √
Water intensity  (m3/sq. ft.) 0.064 0.039 -39%
Waste generation(3)
Waste to landfill (tonnes) 16 19 19%
Waste diverted (tonnes) 15 36 140%
Total waste generated (tonnes)  31 55 77%
Waste diversion 75% waste diversion target by 2025 48% 65% 37% √
Certifications
Percentage of portfolio that has a 
green building certification(4)100% certification (any program) of all 
Canadian office sites by 2025N/A(5)90% √
Percentage of eligible portfolio that 
has an energy rating(6)100% 96% -4%
Dream Impact Trust
ESG Scorecard
(1)  Energy, emissions and water metrics stated in the scorecard is from the following assets: 349 Carlaw, 49 Ontario St, 10 Lower Spadina and Sussex Centre.
(2)  GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the World Resource Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol. They capture activities MPCT.UN has direct and indirect operational control over: 
Scope 1 emissions generated directly from its operations, including heating at MPCT.UN's properties. 
Scope 2 emissions indirectly associated with generation of purchased electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumed by properties. 
(3)  Waste data stated in the scorecard is from the following assets 349 Carlaw, 49 Ontario St and 10 Lower Spadina. Sussex Centre, co-owned by MPCT.UN, and D.UN, is included in D.UN data
(4)  Based on total GLA owned by MPCT.UN as of June 30th, 2021, representing 566,000 sq ft of portfolio including Sussex Centre (owned GLA), 68-70 Claremont St, 76 Stafford St, 10 Lower Spadina, 49 Ontario
and 349 Carlaw. 
(5)  Metric not calculated in 2019. 
(6)  Represents the percentage of portfolio based on sq.ft. using ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager (ESPM). 
(7)  Each years energy, GHG, water, waste, building certification and energy rating data is based on the relevant properties owned for the full calendar year in that year.ESG Scorecard
49 Ontario Street
Toronto, ON
2025 Targets
15%  reduction of energy consumption by 
2025 versus 2019 baseline
10%  reduction of emissions by 2025 
versus 2019 baseline
10%  reduction of water consumption by 
2025 versus 2019 baseline
75%  waste diversion target by 2025
100%  certification (any program) of all 
Canadian office sites by 2025
49Dream Impact Trust
 
How the ESG Framework 
Interacts with the Impact 
Management System 
Dream's ESG Framework serves as a guide for 
the operations of MPCT.UN for material ESG 
issues related to our portfolio of properties 
that we develop and operate.
While reflecting the unique characteristics of each Dream 
entity and its market, the ESG Framework creates a 
consistent approach, supports the advancement of our ESG 
priorities and drives ESG performance across Dream. The 
ESG Framework seeks to create better places, build and 
operate with the future in mind, foster strong relationships 
and focus on purpose and profit.  
The Impact Management System also guides MPCT.UN’s 
operations, but through a different lens. Each investment 
is measured through three impact verticals so we can 
understand, evaluate and effectively communicate the 
impact we are generating for each property. MPCT.UN's 
impact verticals are environmental sustainability and 
resilience, attainable and affordable housing and inclusive 
communities. These topics align with the ESG Framework and 
its pillars: Best Places, Future Ready, Strong Relationships 
and Operational Excellence.  
Overall, the integration of impact and ESG throughout our 
business is complementary and furthers our objective of 
continuing to build a financially successful business that 
contributes positively to social and environmental outcomes 
with lasting impacts on communities. In 2021, DRM, the asset manager for MPCT.UN, successfully launched the DRM Impact Management 
System and outlined our approach to impact investing and achieved the following milestones:
Released the inaugural Disclosure Statement 
to affirm alignment of  investment process 
with the Operating Principles for Impact 
Management↗
Obtained independent verification on the DRM 
Impact Management System↗
The DRM Impact Management System and processes 
were verified by an independent firm in June 2021. This 
verification reports on the alignment of DRM’s impact 
management practices with the Operating Principles for 
Impact Management. The verification will be completed  
every three years.Published first annual Impact Report ↗
This report presents DRM's approach to impact investing 
through the creation of the Dream Impact Management 
System and reports on its impact performance aligned with 
the Operating Principles for Impact Management. We are 
committed to reporting on impact performance annually. Released first Impact White Paper ↗
DRM will periodically publish white papers on topics of 
impact investing, impact management and sustainable 
and socially responsible real estate. The papers aim to 
advance thinking on a variety of topics and continuously 
promote the need to define and pursue positive impacts 
through real estate. The first white paper “Impact 
Investing and Real Estate Management” was published in 
July 2021 .
50How Our ESG Framework 
Applies to MPCT.UN
The following sections in this chapter will 
illustrate how we are addressing material ESG 
topics for MPCT.UN and provide examples 
of how our business contributes positively to 
social and environmental outcomes. 
ESG topics that are a key priority for MPCT.UN are:Key Accomplishments
Within the real estate industry there is general agreement that in order for countries 
to meet the Paris Agreement all buildings will need to emit net zero GHG emissions 
by 2050. Leadership is needed to show the industry how this will be achieved sooner 
rather than later.  In 2021, we launched our Net Zero Steering Committee and 
announced our net zero goals for each Dream entity.  
Dream’s overarching commitment to Building Better Communities requires us to 
address climate change. In addition to the ESG metrics and targets and impact 
verticals built into each of our projects, we are committed to an overall thoughtful and 
specific approach to reducing carbon emissions in line with international standards 
and commitments. We look forward to sharing our net zero strategy in 2022, which will 
include best-in-class methodologies, science based interim targets, road-maps and 
reporting requirements. 
In 2021, MPCT.UN will be supporting three voluntary international initiatives to 
demonstrate our commitment to climate action and responsible investing:
As part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment(1), MPCT.UN is supporting the Net 
Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) Initiative ↗ , which is a group of international asset managers 
committed to supporting the goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, 
in line with global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.  
As part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment(1), MPCT.UN joined the United 
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) ↗ , which includes a group of more 
than 4,300 investment managers and asset owners from nearly 90 countries committed to 
developing a more sustainable global financial system.  
MPCT.UN became an official supporter of the Task Force for Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) ↗  which provides guidance and recommendations to help companies 
provide better climate disclosures to support capital allocation. More than 2,300 companies 
support the TCFD and MPCT.UN is one of the first Canadian public real estate companies to 
become an official supporter.
(1)  While DRM is the official signatory, MPCT.UN will be participating in the reporting to the NZAM initiative and UN PRI as
part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment.
MPCT.UN has committed to be net 
zero by 2035 for operations and new 
developments, including Scope 1, 2 and 
select Scope 3 emissions.
Zibi
Ottawa, ON / Gatineau, QCFR SR OE BP —Carbon and resource 
efficiency
 —Indigenous engagement
 —Attainability and 
affordability —Community and NGO 
partnerships
 —ESG impact and 
management
 —Sustainable development
 —Tenant engagementDream Impact Trust
 
51“We invest to create positive and lasting impacts on 
communities and the environment. While many 
investors are beginning to integrate environmental 
and social considerations in their investment strategy, 
we have been doing this and doing it well for many 
years. With Dream Impact Trust, we see an opportunity 
to create shared value, targeting investments with 
measurable impacts together with market returns.”
Michael Cooper
Portfolio Manager
Dream Impact Trust
Our ESG ApproachDream’s Impact Verticals
Each vertical is integral to our strategy of building complete communities and 
reflects a component of UN SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities. 
Through successfully supporting UN SDG 11, we also support the 
achievement of several other SDGs. 
For more information on our impact investing approach,  
please see our 2021 Impact Report. ↗
Environmental Sustainability 
and Resilience
Develop sustainable real estate that optimizes 
energy use, limits greenhouse gas emissions, and 
reduces water use and waste while also creating 
resiliency against natural disasters and major 
climatic events.Attainable and Affordable Housing
Invest in mixed-income communities that are 
transit oriented, located close to employment 
opportunities, and support an overall lower 
relative cost of living with high quality of life.Inclusive Communities
Intentionally design and program communities 
that are safe and inclusive for everyone. This 
includes creating spaces that encourage mental 
and physical health, and wellness.Impact Investing
As an open-ended trust dedicated to impact investing, MPCT.UN is focused 
on United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (UN SDG) 11: Building 
Sustainable Cities and Communities, with the goal of making cities and 
human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Cities are at the 
core of life, innovation, and are a critical driver of global prosperity. More 
than 50% of the global population now lives in cities and they spend 90% 
of their time indoors. Over the next century, city-dwellers will represent an 
ever-greater share of the world's population. As cities continue to grow, it is 
imperative the prosperity they generate be more equitably shared.
West Don Lands,
Toronto, ONDream Impact Trust
 
Our Impact Verticals are:
52What lead to Dream’s focus on impact investing? 
Real estate is an exciting and creative business which can have a profound 
effect on individuals and communities alike, and we take that responsibility 
very seriously. We have always invested to create positive and lasting impacts 
on communities and the environment. While many investors are now beginning 
to integrate environmental and social considerations in their investment 
strategy, we have been doing this, and doing it well, for many years.
In 2020, two factors occurred simultaneously to formalize our impact 
investing approach. First, the Operating Principles for Impact Management 
were published. These principles set out an approach to impact that is 
standardized, public and organized and provided a method for evaluating 
impact investing as an asset class. 
Second, COVID-19 revealed the depths of the inequities in our society, which 
are intolerable. These inequities can be lessened through thoughtful investment 
and changes in how we look at the communities that we build and operate. 
What guides your impact philosophy? 
Our impact philosophy is guided by the most basic earliest teachings, ‘treat 
others as you would want to be treated’, ‘leave everything better than 
how you found it’ and ‘we only have a short time on this planet – make it 
mean something’.  We view the impact investing asset class as an improved 
articulation of our company’s historical focus on doing the right thing. 
We make our investing decisions through an impact investing lens and are 
committed to applying the same rigour, concentration and transparency to 
our community impact results as we have to our financial results. What is your overall vision for Impact at Dream? 
Our vision for impact is to become the industry leader in creating positive societal 
and environmental impact through real estate development and operations, 
related to UN SDG 11:  Inclusive, Safe, Resilient and Sustainable Cities. 
As a city builder, we are uniquely positioned to design, build and deliver great 
communities. We believe our purpose of building better communities – ones that 
revolutionize the way people live and work – can be summarized in our three 
impact verticals. The first vertical is environmental sustainability and resilience 
with a focus on decarbonizing real estate and reducing water and waste usage 
while also creating resilience against natural disasters and major climatic events.  
A second vertical is to become a key provider of attainable and affordable 
housing by investing in mixed-income communities that are transit-oriented, 
located close to employment opportunities, and support an overall lower relative 
cost of living with high-quality of life. Housing affordability is a significant issue in 
Canada and a key focus for us, as well as all levels of government.  
Over the next few years, many of our affordable and mixed-use projects will be 
completing construction and entering the occupancy phase. This lets us further 
develop our third vertical – creating inclusive communities. For cities to be 
successful and welcoming, they must be diverse. We are focused on developing 
and managing our real estate to create inclusive, safe and welcoming places. 
This includes creating spaces that encourage mental and physical health, and 
wellness. 
What are you proudest of having accomplished with impact? 
I’m excited about finding new ways to develop more sustainable and inclusive 
communities. There are so many opportunities to drive positive impact within 
our organization and within our impact investments. Just over a year ago, 
Dream Impact Trust was just an idea. Today, it forms an integral part of who 
we are, and how we invest. More importantly, it represents how we’ve done 
business for more than 25 years.
Recently, Harvard Business School published a case study on MPCT.UN’s 
investing approach to teach methods of maximizing both social and financial 
returns through business. MPCT.UN is now being used to teach students at 
Harvard Business School as well as offered globally at all other schools that 
use Harvard Business School cases for their curriculum. We are passionate 
about driving social impact to improve our communities as well as educating 
people about the benefits of impact investing. I look forward to seeing what 
else we can accomplish. Interview
Pino Di Mascio
We sat down with Pino Di Mascio, Head of Impact Strategy 
and Delivery, to discuss his thoughts on Dream’s impact 
journey and how it aligns with Dream’s core mission of 
building better communities for people to live, work and 
play in – while delivering returns to shareholders. Pino Di Mascio
Head of Impact Strategy and DeliveryDream Impact Trust
 
West Don Lands
Toronto, ON
53Number of At-Risk Assets from Flooding(1)(3)
MPCT.UN(3) 50-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)100-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)
- - 1 61,000
200-year 
floodFloor area(2)
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area(2)
(sq. ft.)
- - - -
(1)  Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated
in the figures in the other time categories. Changes from 2020 are the result of acquisitions or
dispositions of assets since the previous reporting year. As at September 30, 2021.
(2)  Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA). 
(3)  MPCT.UN assets managed by D.UN were included in this assessment at 100% of GLA. Physical Climate Risks
We conduct an analysis on an annual basis to identify physical climate risks 
in our portfolio and assess our level of resiliency. Climate resiliency describes 
the actions to prepare, adapt and endure the shocks and stressors we 
face related to climate change. The goal of climate resilience is to reduce the 
likelihood and impact of a catastrophic or disruptive event on our properties 
and in our communities.
Using third-party climate data, we assessed the physical climate risk at each 
property in MPCT.UN’s portfolio against the following hazards:   Dream Impact Trust
Environmental
Climate Change
In 2021, Dream Impact Trust announced the goal of 
achieving net zero GHG emissions by 2035 – fifteen years 
ahead of the Paris Agreement’s objectives.
Arapahoe Basin, an asset in MPCT.UN's asset manager, DRM’s portfolio, is a 
great example of an innovative approach to achieving net zero (see case study) ↗ 
and we will be taking a similar approach with each of our properties in MPCT.UN 
as we develop our plan and milestones for eliminating our GHG emissions.
We are committed to improving the resilience of our properties from the 
effects of physical climate risks. Using this analysis, we will identify specific 
regions and properties with increased climate risk and identify opportunities 
to improve resilience through ongoing capital and operations investments.
As part of the physical climate risk analysis, we have updated the flood risk 
and catastrophic loss risk assessment in 2021 to identify properties in our 
portfolio that are at risk of losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year floods. Our 
next step in this process is to develop a plan to increase resilience to flooding 
and water damage and ensure there are supporting emergency management 
and business continuity procedures in place.
Water Management
MPCT.UN is committed to reducing water consumption at our properties. 
Our asset manager, DRM's, Water Conservation Policy specifies monitoring 
major water consuming equipment through building management systems, 
leak reporting through our tenant service program, routine inspections by 
staff, installing low flow water fixtures during washroom renovations and 
monitoring landscape irrigation using rain sensors and control timers.Energy Management
MPCT.UN is committed to using energy in an efficient, cost-effective and 
environmentally responsible manner. Our Energy Policy sets forth objectives 
that support this goal, including benchmarking energy use at all facilities, 
meeting our energy reduction targets, enrolling in demand response 
programs and educating employees and tenants on energy conservation.
Arapahoe Basin Ski Resort
Dillon, CO
West Don Lands
Toronto, ON
Zibi
Ottawa, ON / Gatineau, QCFlooding
Wildfire
Windstorm
TornadoHailstorm   
Lightning 
Earthquake   
54ESG Policies
MPCT.UN through its asset manager, DRM, has policies covering activities 
across the value chain including our Building Standards Manual for 
developments, our Guide to Sustainable Building Operations and our Tenant 
Sustainability Handbook for customer relations.Building Certifications
Green building certifications help us to incorporate a range of sustainability 
features into our physical properties and our daily practices. According to 
the Canada Green Building Council (CaGBC), green-certified buildings or 
communities with lower operating costs and superior indoor environmental 
quality are more attractive to a growing group of customers. Studies have 
shown that certified buildings produce higher capital and income growth 
relative to industry benchmarks. 
MPCT.UN Portfolio Certification by Type and Level(1)
BOMA BEST Gold
UncertifiedLEED Gold
BOMA BEST BronzeBOMA BEST Silver
(1)  The chart is based on total GLA owned by MPCT.UN as of September 30, 2021 representing 566,000 sq. ft.
of portfolio including Sussex Centre (owned GLA), 68-70 Claremont St, 76 Stafford St, 10 Lower Spadina,  
49 Ontario and 349 Carlaw. Properties may have more than one certification which is why the chart adds up 
to more than 100%.WELL Health-Safety
49 Ontario Street,
Toronto, ONDream Impact Trust
 9026+58+6
90%58%
6%
58++15
10%
26%58%
55FR
Case Study
Sustainable Materials 
Sourcing at Zibi
To help Zibi’s effort to reduce embodied carbon, we strive to 
have 20% of construction materials contain recycled content and 
20% be locally sourced. In 2021, Zibi will establish an improved 
system to track recycled content in all products and materials 
used for each project.
Zibi refined its material tracking process in 2020 by improving 
tracking sheets and meeting regularly with construction project 
managers. This has allowed us to improve data collection 
and fostered a joint sense of appreciation for what we need to 
accomplish with the project managers.  Case Study
Zibi District Energy System
In 2020, we started construction on our permanent 
Zibi Community Utility (ZCU) plant and signed our 
agreement with Kruger Products. We expect construction 
to be complete and our District Energy System to be fully 
operational in late 2021/early 2022. 
ZCU is a District Energy System that relies on effluent 
energy recovery from the local Kruger Products Plant for 
heating, and the Ottawa River for cooling. A partnership 
between Hydro Ottawa and Zibi, the ZCU District Energy 
System will provide zero carbon heating and cooling for 
all Zibi tenants and residents in the 34-acre waterfront 
property. The partnership itself is an example of how Dream 
Impact Trust seeks innovative, collaborative opportunities 
with government stakeholders.  ZCU is integral to helping Zibi meet its One Planet Living 
goal of ensuring its energy needs are satisfied on a net zero 
carbon basis. While many district thermal systems exist 
in Canada, ZCU will be the first in North America to 
use post-industrial effluent energy recovery in a master-
planned community.
ZCU will benefit Zibi residents by providing price stability 
and reliability, as they will not be impacted by price 
fluctuations of natural gas and will also experience fewer 
energy supply disruptions. Residents will also benefit from 
enhanced comfort and convenience in having the ability to 
control their energy usage using our Zibi-specific mobile 
app, ZibiStat. Survey results indicate that 63% of residents 
use the app to reduce their energy demands during working 
hours or vacation time. 
Zibi
Ottawa, ON / Gatineau, QCObjectives related to 
sustainable development 
materials at Zibi include: 
 — Retain and re-purpose 50% of the 
existing buildings on-site*
 — Re-purpose or recycle 90% of all 
demolition materials, of which a minimum 
of 5% by volume should be reused**
 — Reduce embodied carbon of buildings
 — Use wood products with a minimum 
of 80% Forest Stewardship Council-
certified content, and/or that are 
re-claimed, recycled or from locally 
managed supply chains
*  Excluding primary mill buildings  
**Excluding hazardous materials→Dream Impact Trust
 
Carbon and resource efficiency 
Innovation and technology adoptionFRCarbon and resource efficiency 
Sustainable development
Zibi - One Planet Report ↗ 
56The project is expected to deliver the 
following environmental and social 
impacts:
 — Reduction of energy consumption by 27% 
compared to the NECB (1)
 — Reduction of GHG emissions by 32% compared 
to the NECB(1)
 — Reduction of potable water consumption by 35% 
compared to market standard
 — Providing much needed affordable housing supply
(1)  2015 National Energy Code of Canada for Buildings 
→Case Study
West Don Lands
In 2019, we broke ground on West Don Lands Block 8, a public-private 
partnership with the Government of Canada, Canada Mortgage and 
Housing Corporation (CMHC) and the Province of Ontario to create 
long-term affordable housing units (housing where the total monthly 
shelter cost is at or below Toronto’s average market rent). The entire 
West Don Lands project will deliver 2,279 world-class new rental 
units of which 30% are affordable, to meet a growing demand in the 
Toronto housing market. The West Don Lands is a LEED Gold-certified, purpose-built, multi-
family rental apartment community in Toronto’s downtown East End. 
The development is one of the largest affordable housing projects in 
Canada and the first within the Provincial Affordable Housing Lands 
Program to break ground. We are focused on addressing one of the 
most prevalent issues facing Canadian cities: shortage of attainable 
housing. As the first block of the development nears completion, we 
will be working with local non-profit groups to establish an inclusive 
tenant selection process for the affordable units.
Case Study
Brightwater
A 72-acre waterfront development in Mississauga’s Port Credit 
area will be transformed into a complete, vibrant and diverse 
community with residential units and commercial space as well 
as an elementary school and YMCA. The Brightwater community 
will embody waterfront living while promoting connectivity, 
mental and physical health and well-being in the community. 
The development will include 18 acres of new parks and green 
space, which will include the village square, a planned hub for 
community programming.
Brightwater
Port Credit, ON
BP FRDream Impact Trust
 
Sustainable development
ConnectivitySustainable development
Affordability and attainability BP FR
West Don Lands
Toronto, ON
57Dream Impact Trust
 
Case Study
68 - 70 Claremont Street
In Q1 2021 Dream Impact Trust acquired 68-70 Claremont 
Street, representing our first acquisition using our new impact 
investing approach. The property is a value-add opportunity 
with long term growth prospects given its location in 
Toronto’s trendy Queen West neighbourhood, its character as 
a boutique office space, as well as the opportunities it presents 
for incorporating components of our Impact Pathways – 
specifically resource efficiency and inclusivity.
BP FR OE
PathwayActions Being Taken to Achieve  
Impact Pathway Goals
Pathway 1  
Inclusive CommunitiesImproving accessibility by installing a ramp at the entrance, 
installing a passenger elevator, and introducing Accessibility 
for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA) compliant 
washrooms.
Pathway 2  
Inclusive Communities/
Sustainable and Resilient 
CommunitiesPromoting sustainable, alternative transportation usage by 
providing bike parking as well as including an AODA compliant 
end-of-trip washroom and shower facility.
Pathway 3  
Sustainable and Resilient 
CommunitiesImproving tenant health and wellbeing by improving access 
to natural light, adding CO2 sensors to control fresh air 
circulation, and using MERV-13 filters to enhance indoor air 
quality.
Pathway 4  
Sustainable and Resilient 
CommunitiesIncreasing water efficiency by replacing existing water fixtures 
with high-efficiency, low-flow fixtures.
Pathway 5  
Sustainable and Resilient 
CommunitiesIncreasing energy efficiency and reducing GHG emissions 
by upgrading the HVAC system, windows, and installing 
LED lighting. We will also work to achieve a BOMA Best 
Certification to recognize our sustainability achievements. Health, safety, and wellness
Certifications
Carbon resource efficiency
Sustainable redevelopment
Diversity, inclusion and advancement
ESG  impact and management
68-70 Claremont Street
Toronto, ON
58Total Men WomenAge 
Under 30Age  
30-50Age  
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
Canada
New Hires (1)22 16 6 9 10 3 20 2
Voluntary 
Turnover Rate(2) 10% 5% 5% 3% 6% 1% 9% 1%Dream Impact Trust
Social
Our work at Dream Impact Trust is focused 
on creating positive social change. 
We apply that ethos to every aspect of how the business 
is run, including our relationship with our most important 
asset, our employees.  
Our strong and diverse workforce contributes to the 
collaborative and innovative work of embedding impact 
throughout the business. Our people come from a 
wide range of backgrounds and places, bringing many 
valuable skills and perspectives to our team. The people 
we hire all have one thing in common: they share our 
company values and contribute to our company culture.Gender Breakdown
61+39
56+4450+50Employees*
Managers
Executive Team49%  Women
40% Women
43% Women51% Men
60% Men
57% Men
 * Includes employees at all levels. 
As of December 31, 2020, the average length of 
service for MPCT.UN employees is 4.2 years.*
(1)  Includes employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, which includes DRM and MPCT.UN employees. Does not include employees at Dream recreational
properties, employees on leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) and interns. 
(2)  Turnover is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2020. MPCT.UN - Employee Summary
(1)  Includes employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, which includes DRM and MPCT.UN employees. Does not include employees at Dream recreational
properties, employees on leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) and interns.
(2)  Numbers represented as total head count, not full time equivalent.
(3)  Includes permanent part-time employees.
(4)  Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week.Employee (1)(2) Total Men Women Central Canada Western Canada
Permanent(3)187 95 92 126 61
Contract 9 4 5 4 5
Full-time(4)193 97 96 128 65
Part-time 3 2 1 2 1
   New Hires and Turnover Rates
59Case Study
Tenant Engagement on 
Sustainable Food at Zibi
Zibi hosts workshops and events centered around Local and 
Sustainable Food, one of Zibi’s One Planet guiding principles. 
In 2020, we provided garden boxes in O's Community Garden 
enclosure to 100% of interested residents. We also launched our 
first community garden group. For the upcoming growing season, 
the community garden group is working to implement a composting 
station to help enrich the soil throughout the seasons. 
SRCase Study
Affordable Housing at Zibi's 
Aalto Suites
Zibi made meaningful progress towards its affordable housing 
target this year. Specifically, financing from Canada Mortgage 
Housing Corporation was secured for and construction began 
on our 162 unit purpose-built affordable housing project, Aalto 
Suites. Occupancy of this rental building is anticipated to begin 
in late 2021. Affordable units will be priced at or below 30% of 
median household income in the Ottawa/Gatineau region, will 
be applied across bedroom types, distributed throughout the 
building, have access to all amenities, and include the same unit 
quality and finishes as market rent suites.
Zibi - Aalto Suites
Gatineau, QC
BP — In 2020, Zibi offered 14 events exclusively to the 
community and hosted a total of 24 events on site.
 — 16% of survey respondents participate in CSA 
programs provided.
 — 100% of residents surveyed claim to know at least 
1 neighbour, 78% of which claim to know between 
2 and 5 neighbours.→As part of our goal to engage residents in education programs to 
encourage a reduction in consumption of high-carbon foods, we 
have also implemented a community supported agriculture (CSA) 
program with local vendors, including Roots and Shoots Farm. 
These initiatives provide residents and community members with 
easily accessible organic, local or fair trade produce. 
We believe that the creation of green spaces that facilitate 
community-building initiatives serve to improve overall quality 
of life for our residents. Dream Impact Trust
 
Attainability and affordabilityAmenities and atmosphere
Tenant engagement BP
60Dream Impact Trust
Governance
Sustainability at MPCT.UN is overseen and managed by DRM, with whom MPCT.UN 
co-invests on many of its projects. As part of the ESG Framework, MPCT.UN links ESG 
performance to executive and employee goals and compensation.
Sustainability at MPCT.UN is managed by the following:  
Role Responsibilities
Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee(1)Review corporate governance practices, review the environmental state of any real 
property investment and establishing policies and procedures to monitor exposure to 
environmental related risks and liabilities
ESG Executive CommitteeAdopt ESG Framework for each Dream entity
Communicate sustainability strategy and commitment across company and key 
external stakeholders 
Delegate implementation to MPCT.UN’s Sustainability and ESG team
Report to the Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee on a regular basis
Investment CommitteeReview the investment’s Acquisition Checklist and approve investments that meet 
both financial and impact goals 
Hold the project team accountable to achieve goals and create impact
Head of Impact Investments and StrategyResponsible for the execution of Dream's impact pathways, which includes delivering 
specified, measurable outcomes for specific social and environmental goals 
Identify opportunities with external stakeholders and community partners to further 
advance Dream’s impact initiatives and broader community objectives
Portfolio Manager, MPCT.UN;  
President of Asset Management of DRMOversight of sustainability at MPCT.UN
Vice Chair, Development of DRM; MPCT.UN’s Director, Impact 
Investments; (in partnership with project specific leads)Manage implementation of sustainable practices in the design of select development 
projects including the West Don Lands and Canary District projects
Sustainability and ESG TeamOversee and manage portfolio sustainability initiatives including: building 
certifications, energy, water and waste management and monitoring, as well as 
strategic initiatives
Meet quarterly with the ESG Executive Committee
Sustainability Working Groups Serve as a forum to share information across departments and groups
Program Manager Sustainability at Zibi Manages the implementation of site-specific sustainability plans and objectives
(1)  The Governance, Compensation and Environmental Committee is a committee of board of
Directors of Dream Impact Master GP Inc, the operating entity of MPCT.UN 
(2)  Based on members of both the Trust and GP Boards as at December, 2021.Governance, Compensation and Environmental Committee Members(1)
Amar  Bhalla
MemberKarine MacIndoe
Member
40+6060% of MPCT.UN Trustees 
are independent(2)
60% of MPCT.UN Trustees 
are women(2)40+60
Joanne Ferstman
Chair
61Brightwater,
Port Credit, ON
Strong Inaugural GRESB Results 
We are proud to share that MPCT.UN achieved a five-star rating achievement in the 
2021 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) assessment. MPCT.UN 
received a score of 90/100, which is one of the best first year scores among GRESB 
participants, placing it in the top 20% of the global benchmark. The 2021 GRESB 
real estate assessment covered the reporting period January 1 – December 31, 
2020. This score exceeds the GRESB average of 73/100 and is attributed to our 
ability to collect environmental data for all of our properties and simultaneously 
achieving strong utility and GHG reductions, as well as our high building 
certification rate, among other strengths. 
Established in 2009, GRESB has become the leading ESG benchmark for real estate 
and infrastructure investments across the world, used by 140 institutional and 
financial investors to inform decision-making and covering US$5.7 trillion of AUM 
and nearly 117,000 individual assets.Dream Impact Trust
 
90+1090 GRESB ScoreFact Box
Operating Principles for Impact Management↗
DRM is a signatory to the Operating Principles for Impact 
Management, acting in our capacity as the asset manager for 
Dream Impact Trust. Over time, further assets or entities under 
our asset management umbrella may be added to the assets that 
align with this standard for impact investors.United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment ↗
The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN 
PRI) is the world’s leading responsible investor collaboration. It 
supports its signatories to incorporate environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) factors into their investment and ownership 
decisions. Signatories commit to follow UN PRI’s six principles and 
report annually on their progress through the UN PRI Reporting 
Framework. DRM, with support from MPCT.UN, became a 
signatory to the UN PRI in 2021 and will report on its responsible 
investment activities starting in 2023. 
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures↗ 
In 2017, the Financial Stability Board established the Taskforce 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to provide 
guidance and recommendations on climate-related risk and 
opportunity disclosures. The TCFD recommendations are 
structured around four core reporting areas: governance, 
strategy, risk management and metrics and targets. More than 
2,300 organizations support the TCFD. MPCT.UN became an 
official supporter in 2021.NZAM↗
The Net Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) Initiative is an alliance of 
global asset managers committing to supporting the goal of net 
zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, in line with 
the global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The 
initiative has 128 signatories and $43 trillion in assets under 
management. DRM, with support from MPCT.UN, joined the NZAM 
initiative in 2021 and there are currently less than 10 Canadian 
signatories.GIIN↗
DRM is a member of the Global Impact Investing Network 
(GIIN). The GIIN is the leading non-profit dedicated to 
increasing the scale and effectiveness of impact investing. 
Impact investments are made into companies, organizations, 
and funds with the intention to generate social and 
environmental impact alongside a financial return. Impact 
investments can be made in both emerging and developed 
markets and target a range of returns from below market 
to market rate, depending upon the circumstances. Our 
membership signifies a commitment to deepening our 
engagement in the impact investing industry.
The Impact Management Project↗ 
The Impact Management Project (IMP) is a forum of over 2,000 
practitioners as well as a structured network of 16 standard-
setting organizations for building global consensus and 
providing complete standards on how to measure, manage and 
report impacts. The IMP has reached a consensus that impact 
can be measured across five dimensions: What, Who, How 
Much, Contribution, and Risk. These measurement dimensions 
have been incorporated into Dream’s Impact Scoring System.
62Forward-looking Priorities
MPCT.UN’s key priorities include: 
Enhancing Dream’s Impact Management System 
Establishing and maintaining Dream's Impact Management System 
requires continuous improvement as the industry evolves and best 
practices are refined. We are committed to continually refining and 
improving our Impact Management System and ensure we govern 
our impact activities with the same rigour and oversight as our 
financial activities. 
Creating Impact Leases 
MPCT.UN is an industry leader in Green Leases and received the 
Gold Recognition standard in 2021 from Green Lease Leaders. 
These leases set out shared commitments and responsibilities 
between MPCT.UN and its commercial tenants in achieving 
prescribed environmental performance targets and in participation 
in environmental management plans. MPCT.UN is expanding 
the Green Leases program into “Impact Leases” which will layer 
social impact outcomes into the management of our commercial 
properties. Our Impact Leases will be marketed in 2021 and 
implemented throughout the coming year.As one of the Dream Group of Companies,  
MPCT.UN is Committed to:
Communicating our Plan to Reach Net Zero by 
2035 
MPCT.UN has committed to net zero GHG emissions by 2035 – 
fifteen years ahead of the Paris Agreement’s 2050 goal. Over 
the next year we will communicate a thoughtful and specific 
strategy on how we will achieve this overarching goal with a 
detailed plan and annual milestones to reduce our Scope 1, 
Scope 2, and select Scope 3 emissions.  
Beginning to Fulfill NZAM Commitments
MPCT.UN, as part of the Dream group of companies’ 
commitment, announced in 2021 that it is supporting the Net 
Zero Asset Managers Initiative. MCPT.UN has set net zero targets 
and in 2022, MPCT.UN will be setting interim targets for 2030.
Evaluating UN PRI Readiness 
MPCT.UN, as part of the Dream group of companies’ 
commitment, announced in 2021 that it is supporting the UN 
PRI. In 2022, we will prepare for participating in the UN PRI 
Reporting & Assessment Framework, starting in 2023.Increasing Alignment with the TCFD 
Recommendations 
In 2021, MPCT.UN became an official supporter of the TCFD 
recommendations. We support the development of consistent 
climate disclosures and will develop a plan for MPCT.UN to 
systematically assess climate change risk, in line with TCFD 
recommendations. 
Operating Principles for Impact Management
The Operating Principles for Impact Management are a standard 
for systems and processes for the management of investments 
targeting the achievement of positive social and environmental 
impact. DRM was an early adopter of the Operating Principles for 
Impact Management and the first Canadian real estate company 
to be a signatory.Dream Impact Trust
 
Zibi
Ottawa, ON / Gatineau, QCCommitting to our Social Procurement Strategy 
MPCT.UN has committed to utilize its project purchasing practices 
to generate social and economic value in the communities where we 
develop and manage real estate assets. We established a working 
group in 2021 that has undertaken extensive research with regards 
to social procurement opportunities in the real estate industry. The 
work of this group has led to the framework for a formal Social 
Procurement Strategy. Specifically, through that framework MPCT.UN 
is seeking to support equity-seeking groups by: 
1. Expanding the diversity of our vendors
2. Ensuring employment opportunities are created
3. Providing local community benefits through the use and 
programming of space in our projects
The Social Procurement Strategy was announced in 2021 and 
MPCT.UN is among the first in Canada’s private  sector to  set  
quantifiable targets to meet these goals by 2025, with progress 
reports beginning in 2022. Targets  include: 
 — 20 per cent of the annual value of all contracts to be awarded to local,  
independent and/or socially responsible businesses;
 — 20 per cent of the annual value of all contracts to be awarded to 
businesses that are majority owned or managed by an equity-seeking 
group;
 — 20 per cent of annual jobs created through capital and operating 
spending to be filled by equity-seeking groups; and,
 — 30 per cent of apprentice hours worked on development projects to be  
by equity-seeking groups.
63Dream Group of Companies
Dream Office REIT
Dream Office REIT (TSX:D.UN) is a premier office landlord in downtown Toronto 
with approximately 3.5 million square feet owned and managed. Dream Office 
has carefully curated an investment portfolio of high-quality assets in irreplaceable 
locations in one of the finest office markets in the world.
30
properties(1)84.6%
portfolio occupancy including 
committed(2)
5.5 million
square feet of gross leasable 
area (GLA)(1)
11,000
square foot average tenant size(2)5.2 year
weighted average lease term(2)
(1)  Excluding investment in joint ventures as at September 30, 2021. 
(2). Excluding investment in joint ventures and properties under development as at September 30, 2021. 
330 Bay Street
Toronto, ON90+1091 GRESB Score
6440+60
40+60of employees are women(1)
46%40%
28%
of GLA is sub-metered for  
energy consumption 26 Projects
that improve energy efficiency, water 
efficiency, or reduce GHG emissions 
were completed$50,823
donated to charities and 
NGOs in 2020$125,294
paid out towards employee tuition 
and professional fees(1)Five Star  
Rating
D.UN achieved a five-star GRESB  
rating in its first GRESB submission
(1)  Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Office REIT and excludes employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g.,
permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) and interns.Environmental Social Governance 
Green Lease 
Leader
Recognized as a Green Lease Leader 
(Gold) by the Institute for Market 
Transformation and the US Department of 
Energy Better Buildings Alliance in 2021
of managers are women(1)Return to 
Operations
plans were updated to ensure the safe 
return of our tenants to our buildings 
amid the COVID-19 pandemic Well Health-
Safety Rating
Recognized as Canada’s largest 
commercial portfolio to earn the WELL 
Health-Safety Rating in 2021Green Will  
Initiative
Joined the City of Toronto Green Will 
Initiative to support Toronto-based best 
practices for low carbon buildings and 
operations in 2021Dream Office REIT
2020 Highlights
100%
of properties assessed for climate 
change risk as of September 30, 2021
96%
employee response rate for employee 
engagement satisfaction survey Top Reducer
350 Bay Street won BOMA Toronto’s 
2021 Building Challenge Top Reducer 
Award as part of the Beyond Earth Hour 
Challenge90+1091
36 Toronto Street
Toronto, ONDeveloping and maintaining high-quality, energy 
efficient office buildings has become a differentiator 
that allows us to appeal to a broader range of tenants 
and sustain high occupancy rates.
Top 10%
ESG Risk Rating. This represents  
a low risk(2)
(2)  Based on 1,054 real estate companies rated by Sustainalytics globally.  As of December, 2021.
Copyright ©2021 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This [publication/ article/ section] contains information developed by 
Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party 
suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an endorsement of any 
product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular 
purpose. Their use is subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.
The LEED® certification trademark is owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and is used with permission.Developed ESG  
Framework
D.UN's new ESG Framework sets out the most 
material sustainability topics and how we 
are responding based on the type of asset 
class and specific objectivesLEED Gold
certification was achieved at 
Sussex Centre located at 50 and 
90 Burnhamthorpe Rd. West in 
Mississauga in 2021
65Dream Office REIT
ESG Scorecard
Indicator 2025 Target 2019(8)2020(8)YOY % 
Change(8) On track 
for target
Energy(1)
Energy consumption (ekWh) 10% reduction of energy consumption 
by 2025 versus 2019 baseline170,417,623 141,298,958 -17% √
Energy intensity (ekWh / sq. ft.) 26.5 21.8 -18%
GLA metered or sub-metered for energy consumption 25.7% 28% 9%
Emissions(1)(2)
Scope 1 emissions (tCO2e) 10,981 9,121 -17%
Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 15,013 12,162 -19%
Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2; tCO2e) 10% reduction of emissions by 2025 
versus 2019 baseline25,994(3)21,283 -18% √
GHG emissions intensity (kgCO2e / sq. ft.) 4.03 3.3 -18%
Water(1)
Water consumption (m³) 10% reduction of water consumption 
by 2025 versus 2019 baseline405,633 274,097 -32% √
Water intensity (m3/sq. ft) 0.064 0.042 -34%
Percentage GLA separately metered or sub-
metered for water consumption2.8% 2.8% 0%
Waste generation (4)(5)
Waste to landfill (tonnes) 674 430 -36%
Waste diverted (tonnes) 539 565  5%
Total waste generated (tonnes) 1213 995 -18%
Waste diversion 75% waste diversion target by 2025 44% 57% 30% √
Certifications
Percentage of portfolio that has a green building  
certifications(6)100% certification (any program) of 
all Canadian office sites by 202596% 93% √
Percentage of eligible portfolio that has an 
Energy Rating(7)83% 83%
(1)  Energy, emissions and water metrics reflects all properties in D.UN’s portfolio as of December 31, 2020 where D.UN pays the utility bills. Excludes developments and major renovations. 
(2)  GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the World Resource Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Calculations in this table capture activities Dream Office has direct and indirect operational control over: 
Scope 1 emissions generated directly from its operations, including heating with Office’s properties 
Scope 2 emissions indirectly associated with generation of purchased electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumed by properties 
(3)  In the previous report, the 2019 metric was reported as 23,819 tCO2e and 4.5 kg tCO2e/sq.ft. This has been updated in this report to reflect the accurate GHG emissions and GHG emissions intensity.  
(4)  Data coverage represents 89% of D.UN’s portfolio in 2019 and 80% of D.UN’s portfolio in 2020. Reduction in data coverage is due to missing data. 
(5) 100% of waste generated at Sussex Centre which is a co-owned asset by D.UN and MPCT.UN is included. 
(6)  Based on total GLA owned by D.UN as of June 30, 2021 representing 5.5M sq ft of portfolio including owned GLA of Sussex Centre. 
(7)  Represents the percentage of portfolio (based on sq. ft.) using ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager.
(8)  Each years energy, GHG, water, waste, building certification and energy rating data is based on the relevant properties owned for the full calendar year in that year.ESG Scorecard
357 Bay Street
Toronto, ON
2025 Targets
10%  reduction of energy consumption by 
2025 versus 2019 baseline
10%  reduction of emissions by 2025 
versus 2019 baseline
10%  reduction of water consumption by 
2025 versus 2019 baseline
75%  waste diversion target by 2025
100%  certification (any program) of all 
Canadian office sites by 2025
66How Our ESG Framework 
Applies to D.UN
The following section will illustrate how 
we are addressing material ESG topics for 
D.UN and provide examples of how our 
business contributes positively to social and 
environmental outcomes. 
ESG topics that are a key priority for D.UN are:Key Accomplishments
Within the real estate industry there is general agreement that in order for countries 
to meet the Paris Agreement all buildings will need to emit net zero GHG emissions 
by 2050. Leadership is needed to show the industry how this will be achieved sooner 
rather than later.  In 2021, we launched our Net Zero Steering Committee and 
announced our net zero goals for each Dream entity. 
Dream’s overarching commitment to Building Better Communities requires us to 
address climate change. Beyond the ESG metrics and targets and impact verticals 
built into each of our projects, we are committed to an overall net zero approach, 
a thoughtful and specific approach to reducing carbon emissions in line with 
international standards and commitments. We look forward to sharing our net zero 
strategy in 2022, which will include best-in-class methodologies, science based interim 
targets, road-maps and reporting requirements.
In 2021, D.UN will be supporting three voluntary international initiatives to demonstrate 
commitment to climate action and responsible investing:
As part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment(1), D.UN, is supporting the Net Zero 
Asset Managers (NZAM) Initiative↗ , which is a group of international asset managers 
committed to supporting the goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, 
in line with global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. 
As part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment(1), D.UN is supporting the United 
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) ↗ , which includes a group of more 
than 4,300 investment managers and asset owners from nearly 90 countries committed to 
developing a more sustainable global financial system.  
D.UN became an official supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) ↗ which provides guidance and recommendations to help companies 
provide better climate disclosures to support capital allocation. More than 2,300 companies 
support the TCFD and Dream is one of the first Canadian public real estate companies to 
become an official supporter. 
(1)  While DRM is the official signatory, D.UN will be an active participant in the reporting to the NZAM initiative and UN PRI as
part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment.D.UN has committed to be net zero 
by 2035 for operations and new 
developments, including Scope 1, 2  
and select Scope 3 emissions.
2200 Eglinton Street West
Toronto, ONFR SR OE BP —Sustainable redevelopment
 —ESG impact and 
management
 —Carbon and resource 
efficiency
 —Connectivity —Valuing employees
 —Innovation and technology 
adaptation
 —Health, safety, and 
wellness
 —Tenant relationshipsDream Office REIT
 
67Management  
Approach to ESG
Prioritizing efficient and livable buildings 
has always been a part of our core values at 
Dream that connects to our mission to Build 
Better Communities.
Our experience as property managers and building 
operators also gives us a competitive advantage in 
executing impactful capital planning initiatives that 
improve both the environmental footprint and the tenant 
experience. At D.UN we take pride in working to meet 
our environmental targets and objectives and creating 
inclusive, healthy spaces. 
Sustainability at D.UN is guided by policies that cover 
activities across the value chain, including our Guide to 
Sustainable Building Operations, Environmental Management 
Handbook, Green Leases and our Tenant Sustainability 
Handbook and Occupant Environmental Communication 
Program for customer relations.
214-220 King Street West Rendering
Toronto, ON
212 King Street West
Toronto, ONDream Office REIT
 
A green lease is defined as a lease with specific 
clauses that allow better alignment between 
financial incentives and sustainability goals of 
landlords and tenants.  
Institute for Market Transformation,  April 2015
68Energy Management
We achieve energy efficiency and conservation through capital investments 
in technological and operational improvements, process changes and 
modifying occupant behaviours. In addition, we have a comprehensive 
energy and water tracking process that includes real-time data monitoring, 
utility bill reviews with data analytics and working with our property 
managers to ensure required improvements are completed in a timely 
manner. A major focus of our Sustainability and ESG Team has been on 
implementing technology solutions that enable real-time metering. Real-time 
data allows us to significantly improve the accuracy and completeness of 
our energy and water data. Across the portfolio, we have multiple real-time 
metering projects at varying stages of completion.
Where monitoring systems are in place, data insights are shared with our 
energy managers in monthly newsletters. The newsletters provide a snapshot 
of energy and water usage versus the previous year, as well as identify 
trends, explain drivers, and flag concerns. This information assists our teams 
in improving building performance by pinpointing demand spikes, identifying 
atypical consumption and troubleshooting efficiency challenges more easily.  Water Management
We aim to minimize our use of potable water and decrease water 
consumption where possible through fixture retrofits and efficiency 
upgrades. Water management plans at each building provide a framework 
for identifying water conservation measures, developing implementation 
plans and setting building targets. 
In addition, we benchmark water consumption per square foot to identify 
areas of high consumption and conduct water audits to identify opportunities 
for conservation.
A key priority of our water management strategy is to deploy leak detection 
systems at all of our properties. Real-time data technology contributes to this 
effort as it allows our property managers to pinpoint abnormalities such as late-
night water usage that leads to discoveries of leaks and malfunctioning equipment.Dream Office REIT
Environmental
2020 Performance
Due to COVID-19 and the transition to working remotely, 
energy and water  consumption and waste generation in our 
office properties significantly decreased in 2020.
The decrease is partly due to fewer people working in our office buildings, 
resulting in less energy and water use and reduced waste generation. It is 
also partly due to energy and water efficiency measures put in place in 
our properties. These include full building lighting upgrades at most of our 
properties in addition to operating improvements, controls upgrades and other 
high efficiency equipment upgrades. 
Though COVID-19 has delayed energy efficiency projects, we are diligently 
monitoring our environmental performance through normalization and regular 
audits to identify additional opportunities for energy and water savings and 
reductions.
Heat map showing hourly electricity  
consumption for 36 Toronto Street 
Source: D.UN Monthly newsletters 
Bay Street Collection  
Toronto, ONImproving energy efficiency is an important 
part of our operational strategy. It reduces 
utility costs, decreases our GHG emissions 
and lowers our climate change impact.
Electricity Heat Map - 36 Toronto Street
69Building Certifications
We are proud to report that 100% of our Canadian properties over 
100,000 square feet are BOMA BEST certified with operating standards 
requiring ongoing management of energy, water and waste. Additionally, 
we are raising the bar and challenging our sites to achieve a BOMA Gold 
Certification standard across the portfolio moving forward.
BOMA BEST GoldWELL Health-Safety
UncertifiedLEED Gold
BOMA BEST BronzeBOMA BEST Silver
(1) Chart is based on total GLA owned by D.UN as of September 30, 2021, representing 5.5M sq ft of portfolio,
including owned GLA of Sussex Centre. Properties may have more than one certification which is why the chart
adds up to more than 100%.LEED PlatinumNumber of At-Risk Assets from Flooding(1)
D.UN 50-year  
floodFloor area(2)
(sq. ft.)100-year  
floodFloor area(2)
(sq. ft.)
- - 1 78,000
200-year 
floodFloor area(2)
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area(2)
(sq. ft.)
- - 1 228,000
(1)  Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated
in the figures in the other time categories. Changes from 2020 are the result of acquisitions or 
dispositions of assets since the previous reporting year. As at September 30, 2021.
(2)  Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA). Physical Climate Risks
We conduct analysis on an annual basis to identify physical climate risks 
in our portfolio and assess our level of resiliency. Climate resiliency describes 
the actions to prepare, adapt and endure the shocks and stressors we 
face related to climate change. The goal of climate resilience is to reduce the 
likelihood and impact of a catastrophic or disruptive event on our properties 
and in our communities. 
Using third-party climate data, we assessed the physical climate risk at each 
property in D.UN’s portfolio against the following hazards:  
We are committed to improving the resilience of our properties from the 
effects of physical climate risks. Using this analysis, we will identify specific 
regions and properties with increased climate risk and identify opportunities 
to improve resilience through ongoing capital and operations investments.
As part of the physical climate risk analysis, we have updated the flood risk 
and catastrophic loss risk assessment in 2021 to identify properties in our 
portfolio that are at risk of losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year floods. In 
our assets that were found to be in the 50-year flood zone, we are installing 
leak and water detection technology to alert our property managers in the 
event of an extreme water weather event.  Our next step in this process is 
to develop a plan to increase resilience to flooding and water damage and 
ensure there are supporting emergency management and business continuity 
procedures in place.D.UN’s portfolio has an average 
Walk Score of 94, Transit Score of 
94 and Bike Score of 80.
438 University Avenue
Toronto, ONDream Office REIT
 
As of December 31, 2020, we have 
implemented real-time metering in 7 
properties and have 12 projects in progress 
with an expected completion in 2021.D.UN Portfolio Certification by Type and Level(1)
6+6+78551+35+6
85%35%
51%
6%6%
7%Flooding
Wildfire
Windstorm
TornadoHailstorm   
Lightning 
Earthquake   
70Dream Office REIT
 
“Tearing down existing buildings to build new ones should be avoided 
when possible. We can have new, modern and high-performance 
buildings within the shell of a beautiful, historic building. This is  
better for the climate, community and our tenants.”
Brad Keast
VP, Innovation & Development, Dream Office REIT
366 Bay Street Profile
Throughout its history, D.UN has been 
developing in-house expertise to lower 
the embodied carbon footprint for new 
developments by re-using as much of 
the existing buildings as possible instead of 
demolishing carbon intensive materials and 
starting anew.
Within our ESG Framework, we call this Sustainable 
Redevelopment. Building off our successes at 30 Adelaide 
Street East and 357 Bay Street in Toronto, D.UN is taking 
the opportunity to revitalize its latest boutique modernist 
building in Toronto’s financial core at 366 Bay Street. The 
redevelopment project will provide the latest technologies 
that companies and their employees want plus a 
sophisticated, luxury look and feel that will impress their 
clients and partners.  
Situated in the middle of the Dream Collection buildings, 
366 Bay Street will be improved with better floor layouts, 
improved air quality systems, and new technology for 
smart building applications. Dream is also actively 
implementing the recently announced social procurement 
strategy ↗ to ensure equality in accessing opportunities 
for individuals and companies to do business with Dream. 
Additionally, by redeveloping a building from 1959, 
Dream is retaining in-place embodied carbon, which 
is significantly more efficient from a GHG emission 
perspective than demolishing and building new.
366 Bay Street  - Artist Rendering
Toronto, ON
366 Bay Street  - Artist Rendering
Toronto, ON
71Case Study
Smart Building Pilot
In 2020, we continued our Smart Building Pilot project at 80 
Richmond Street West in Toronto to reposition this 80-year-old 
asset as a technological market leader. Despite delays caused 
by the COVID-19 pandemic, the new Building Automation 
System (BAS), Smart LED lighting, upgraded tenant workplace 
experience app and advanced indoor air quality sensors are 
nearing completion. The pilot also involves modernizing the 
HVAC system to the latest standards and adding a variety of 
energy management and occupancy sensing technology features to 
optimize operations and improve tenant comfort. In early 2022, 
we expect the project to move into the testing and commissioning 
phase, getting real world feedback from our tenants and building 
operators. 
The goals of this project include making the workplace better 
than home, leading the technological revolution, future proofing 
our assets, maximizing long term value, and becoming a wellness 
leader. 
We are eager to report on the lessons learned from this pilot project 
and intend to use the insights as a blueprint for future integration 
of smart building technologies throughout our portfolio to 
improve sustainability performance and tenant experience. 
In 2021, we will also finish developing a new Digital 
Transformation standard that will apply to future construction 
projects as well as serve as a benchmark for our existing assets. 
This standard includes requirements for base building networks, 
converged operations platforms, sub-metering and security 
systems as well as the outcomes from the Smart Building Pilot at 
80 Richmond. 
80 Richmond Street West is also currently undergoing certification 
under the BOMA BEST Smart Buildings program as well as 
WiredScore’s SmartScore certification. These new certifications 
set a global standard for how to measure smart buildings while 
also guiding owners and managers on digital transformation 
within the built environment.Case Study
BOMA Beyond Earth  
Hour Challenge
D.UN’s 350 Bay Street was the Top Reducer of this year’s Beyond 
Earth Hour Challenge, which saw buildings compete to reduce 
energy use over a 60-hour weekend period. Hosted by BOMA 
Toronto, the Challenge evaluated competitors in two categories: 
Building and Tenant. This was the second D.UN property to win 
an award as part of BOMA’s Beyond Earth Hour Challenge. 
In 2020, 67 Richmond Street West won for impressive energy 
reductions over the earth hour weekend.
FR
FR80 Richmond Street West
Toronto, ON
350 Bay Street  
Toronto, ONCarbon and Resource EfficiencyDream Office REIT
 
Innovation and Technology Adaptation
Carbon and Resource Efficiency Green Lease Strategy
In 2021, Dream Office was recognized as a Green Lease Leader (Gold; highest level) by the Institute 
for Market Transformation (IMT) and the US Department of Energy (DOE) Better Buildings Alliance.
This accolade was achieved as a result of internal engagement efforts with Dream’s legal, leasing, 
asset management, property management, and technical services teams. This multi-stakeholder 
initiative was key to developing an industry leading green lease because it allowed us to 
collaboratively determine the most ambitious and appropriate composition. We are grateful to the 
IMT and DOE to be recognized as achieving the highest level of quality with our green leases.  
This achievement has prompted us to work towards changing our default lease to be a green lease. 
Notable clauses within our green lease include a commitment to data collection and transparency, 
green construction practices, and commitments related to renewable energy generation. We are 
beginning to see increased adoption of green leases as all new office leases and lease extensions 
present opportunities to shift to a green lease. We look forward to tracking and reporting on our 
progress in the future. 
72Total Men WomenAge 
Under 30Age  
30-50Age  
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
Canada
New Hires (1)31 15 16 7 19 5 27 4
Voluntary 
Turnover Rate(2) 7% 5% 2% 2% 4% 1% 6% 1%60+40
54+46
100Dream Office REIT
Social
D.UN’s strength as an organization comes 
from our strong and diverse workforce.
Our employees possess expertise in a wide variety 
of areas that benefit our business, from real estate 
management and development to capital markets, risk 
and insurance. 
Our employees come from a wide range of backgrounds 
and places, bringing many valuable skills and 
perspectives to our team. The people we hire all have one 
thing in common: they share our company values and 
contribute to our company culture. Gender Breakdown
Employees*
Managers
Executive Team40% Women
46% Women
0% Women60% Men
54%  Men
100% Men
 * Includes employees at all levels. 
As of December 31, 2020, the average length of 
service for D.UN employees is 6 years.
(1)  Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Office REIT and shared services functions for the Dream entities. Excludes employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g.,
permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) and interns. 
(2) Turnover is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2020.  (1)  Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Office REIT and shared services functions for the Dream entities.  Excludes employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g.,
permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) and interns.
(2)  Numbers represented as total headcount, not full time equivalent. 
(3)  Includes permanent part-time employees. 
(4)  Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater. Employee (1) (2) Total Men Women Central Canada Western Canada
Permanent (3)206 123 83 184 22
Contract 3 2 1 2 1
Full-time (4)208 124 84 185 23
Part-time 1 1 - 1 -D.UN - Employee Summary New Hires and Turnover Rates*
73Return to Operations Plans: 
Supporting our Tenants to 
Return to Work Safely
As we continue navigating the COVID-19 
pandemic, keeping our tenants safe at work is 
our number one priority.
Over the last year, we improved tenant-facing Return to 
Operations plans to help ensure the safe return of tenants 
to our office buildings. As part of these plans, we’ve 
prepared our buildings with numerous safety measures 
to ensure a safe and healthy workplace for our tenants 
and their employees. We have implemented a variety of 
enhancements including increased cleaning measures, 
new operational safety checks, building employee PPE, 
HVAC upgrades, UV lights and behavioural and directional 
signage. We’ve also acquired some of North America’s 
leading safety designations including WELL Health-
Safety ↗ and Post Promise.↗
Case Study
WELL Health-Safety Rating
In 2021, Dream Office was recognized as Canada’s largest 
commercial portfolio to earn the WELL Health-Safety Rating 
for 25 buildings across Canada totalling 4.6 million square feet. 
Our property management teams have implemented a wide range 
of protocols and design solutions to ensure a safe and healthy 
return as part of our Return to Operations plans for tenants. 
This includes upgraded air filtration systems, enhanced cleaning 
protocols and reducing contact with high-touch surfaces, which 
all meet rigorous and thorough criteria set out by the International 
WELL Building Institute. 
BP
“Creating healthy and positive buildings has always been a 
cornerstone of Dream Office's approach. Over the pandemic, 
this has never been more important – we have proactively made 
investments in new technologies and put in place extensive 
measures to ensure a healthy and safe return to our buildings.”
Gordon Wadley
Chief Operating Officer, Dream Office REIT 
Lead of Dream’s Pandemic Response Team
About WELL
Developed by the International WELL Building Institute 
and launched in June 2020, the WELL Health-Safety 
Rating is an evidence-based, third-party verified rating to 
address a post-COVID-19 environment. The WELL Health-
Safety Rating helps guide users to prepare their spaces 
for re-entry in the wake of the pandemic, leveraging 
insights drawn from over 600 experts across the globe as 
part of the IWBI Task Force on COVID-19.
Dream Office REIT
 
Health, safety, and wellness
74Case Study
UVC Light Sanitation  
in Elevators
As part of our Return to Operations plans, we have installed UV 
sanitation ventilation fans to keep people safe while using the 
elevators in our buildings. These units consist of a ventilation fan 
and fluorescent UVC lamps, which work together to continuously 
draw in air, treat it with UV light to kill 99.9% of viruses and 
bacteria and expel clean, sanitized air into the elevator. 
BP
30 Adelaide Street  East  
Toronto, ONDream Office REIT
 
330 Bay Street  
Toronto, ONHealth, safety, and wellnessCase Study
ArtworxTO
As part of ArtworxTO Toronto’s Year of Public Art 2021-2022, 
Dream is proud to support the Project Reframed initiative which 
aims to highlight and empower local, emerging BIPOC artists. 
Dream Office REIT and Dream Unlimited unveiled a seven-storey 
portrait photograph by emerging artist, Jorian Charlton, in the 
heart of the Financial District.
The stunning artwork adorns 330 Bay Street and is the largest 
to date among the Year of Public Art pieces unveiled in 2021, 
spanning 3,000 sq. ft. and climbing 70 ft. high. The art will be 
on display until Spring 2022, as construction is underway on the 
building to modernize its façade.  
The portrait is titled Untitled and showcases three models – a 
female and two male twins – all dressed in bright tulle dresses and 
pearls, contrasted against a dark backdrop. The twins sit tall on 
chairs while the female model stands proud over them with her 
hands on their shoulders, staring confidently and calmly into the 
camera, as a united front.  
An up-and-coming artist, Charlton is best known for her portrait 
photography and innate ability to capture intimate moments. Her 
experiences as a Jamaican-Canadian have informed her work, 
culminating in her distinct style that effortlessly fuses fashion, 
identity, and beauty with black representation.  
Diversity, inclusion, and advancementTenant Engagement
In the past year, we have on-boarded more buildings and users 
onto Lane and Dream Plus, our tenant engagement platforms. In 
response to the need for regular pandemic-related communication 
with our tenants on topics such as safety protocols, we have merged 
Lane and Dream Plus with Angus, our work order management 
software. This innovative consolidation creates a more convenient 
experience for our tenants to assist them in making requests such as 
ordering additional cleaning services.
RiskCheck Health and Safety Services 
D.UN employs RiskCheck, Canada’s leading environmental 
health and safety risk management company to perform annual 
inspection for our buildings in Ontario and regular checks across 
all of our buildings in Canada to provide assurance that Dream 
complies with regional regulations related to all required aspects 
of health and safety. RiskCheck also supports Dream’s Health 
& Safety teams in delivering and designing internal training 
programs and implementing risk management programs to 
mitigate any risks identified in annual inspections. 
Accessibility 
We make efforts to design inclusive spaces for differently abled 
residents/tenants/users. All commercial office space is designed 
and delivered to the Federal Governments most current Standards 
of Accommodations to provide barrier free access to a quality 
work environment for people with mobility challenges.
↗
↗
OE
75Dream Office REIT
Governance
As part of the ESG Framework, D.UN links ESG performance to executive  
and employee goals and compensation.
Sustainability at D.UN is managed by the following:  
Role Responsibilities
Compensation, Health and Environmental Committee Provide oversight of sustainability at the Board level
ESG Executive CommitteeAdopt ESG Framework for each Dream entity
Communicate sustainability strategy and commitment across company and key 
external stakeholders 
Delegate implementation to D.UN’s Sustainability and ESG team
Reports to the Compensation, Health and Environmental Committee
Head of SustainabilityOversee the implementation of the ESG Framework for each Dream entity
Embed sustainability strategy and commitment across company and key external 
stakeholders  
Reports to the ESG Executive Committee on a quarterly basis
Sustainability and ESG TeamOversee and manage portfolio sustainability initiatives, including: building 
certifications, energy, water and waste management and monitoring, as well as 
strategic initiatives
Meets quarterly with the ESG Executive Committee
Sustainability Working GroupsResponsible for advancing sustainability initiatives and activities at company and 
property level
Includes four working groups covering the following focus areas: Green Property 
Operations, Employee Engagement, Tenant Engagement, Reporting and 
Communications
Includes representatives from central functions, regions and properties
Each group reports monthly to the Sustainability and ESG team
Compensation, Health and Environmental Committee Members
Donald Charter
ChairRobert Goodall
MemberKarine Maclndoe
Member
* as of December, 2021. 
25+75
50+5075% of  D.UN Directors 
are independent*
50% of  D.UN Directors 
are women*
76Dream Office REIT
 
250 Dundas Street West  
Toronto, ONFact BoxFact Box
United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment ↗
The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN 
PRI) is the world’s leading responsible investor collaboration. It 
supports its signatories to incorporate environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) factors into their investment and ownership 
decisions. Signatories commit to follow UN PRI’s six principles and 
report annually on their progress through the UN PRI Reporting 
Framework. DRM, with support from D.UN, became a signatory to 
the UN PRI in 2021 and will report on our responsible investment 
activities starting in 2023. 
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures↗ 
In 2017, the Financial Stability Board established the Taskforce 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to provide 
guidance and recommendations on climate-related risk and 
opportunity disclosures. The TCFD recommendations are 
structured around four core reporting areas: governance, 
strategy, risk management and metrics and targets. More than 
2,300 organizations support the TCFD. DRM, with support 
from D.UN, became an official supporter in 2021.
Net Zero Asset Manager↗
The Net Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) initiative is an alliance of 
global asset managers committing to supporting the goal of net 
zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, in line with the 
global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The initiative 
has 128 signatories and $43 trillion in assets under management. 
DRM, with support from D.UN, joined the NZAM initiative in 2021 
and there are currently less than 10 Canadian signatories.
212 King Street West  
Toronto, ON
Strong Inaugural GRESB Results 
We are proud to share that D.UN achieved a five-star rating achievement in the 
2021 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) real estate assessment. 
D.UN received a score of 91/100 which is one of the best first year scores among 
GRESB participants, placing it in the top 20% of the benchmark. The 2021 GRESB 
real estate assessment covered the reporting period January 1 – December 31, 
2020. This score exceeds the GRESB average of 73/100 and is attributed to our 
ability to collect environmental data for all of our properties, simultaneously achieve 
strong utility and GHG reductions and our high building certification rate, among 
other strengths.
Established in 2009, GRESB has become the leading ESG benchmark for real estate 
and infrastructure investments across the world, used by 140 institutional and 
financial investors to inform decision-making and covering $5.7 trillion of AUM and 
nearly 117,000 individual assets.90+1091 GRESB Score
77Forward-looking Plans
D.UN’s key priorities include: 
 — Track and measure our progress for green lease adoption
 — Apply the Digital Transformation standard to new construction 
projects 
 — Increase measurement of our Scope 3 emissions to include 
business travel and tenant emissions
 — Improve our GRESB score by increasing data coverage 
for waste, conducting more energy and waste audits and 
enhancing our employee satisfaction survey 
 — Review the outputs from the 2021 physical climate change 
analysis and develop plans to implement mitigation measures 
within the D.UN portfolio 
 — Enhance Tenant Sustainability Handbook and re-launch to 
tenants
 — Conduct tenant satisfaction surveys and track and disclose 
response rate and scores
 — Launch a new consolidated data management system to better 
collect, measure and track ESG and impact data across the 
portfolio 
 — Obtain verification for material ESG dataCommunicating Our Plan To Reach Net Zero  
By 2035
D.UN has committed to net zero GHG emissions by 2035 – 
fifteen years ahead of the Paris Agreement’s 2050 goal. Over 
the next year we will communicate a thoughtful and specific 
strategy on how we will achieve this overarching goal with a 
detailed plan and annual milestones to reducing our Scope 1, 
Scope 2, and select Scope 3 emissions. 
Increasing Alignment With The TCFD 
Recommendations 
In 2021, D.UN became an official supporter of the TCFD 
recommendations. We support the development of consistent 
climate disclosures and will develop a plan for D.UN to 
systematically assess climate change risk, in line with TCFD 
recommendations. 
Beginning To Fulfill NZAM Commitments 
In 2021, D.UN, as part of the Dream group of companies’ 
commitment, committed to the Net Zero Asset Managers 
Initiative. D.UN has set net zero targets and in 2022, D.UN will 
be setting interim targets for 2030.   
Evaluating UN PRI Readiness 
D.UN, as part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment, 
committed to UN PRI in 2021. In 2022, we will prepare for 
participating in the UN PRI Reporting & Assessment Framework, 
starting in 2023. Dream Office REIT
 
Dream Collection - Alleyway  
Toronto, ON
30 Adelaide Street East  
Toronto, ON
78Dream Group of Companies
Dream Industrial REIT
Dream Industrial REIT (TSX: DIR.UN) owns, manages, and operates a global 
portfolio of well-located, diversified distribution, urban logistics and light industrial 
properties across Canada, Europe and the U.S. We have access to highly experienced, 
local investments and asset management platforms that have a proven track record of 
creating long-term value. Our strategy is to invest in high-quality assets and markets that 
provide growing cash flow and net asset value over the long-term to our unitholders.
$5.3 billion
total assets(1)39.8 million
sq. ft. of leasable floor area(1)
98%
in-place and committed occupancy(1)
8
offices globally(1)221
assets(1)
78
employees(1)
(1)  All figures as of September 30, 2021.
Guldenweg 6  
Varsseveld, NL
79$400 Million
inaugural green bond issued(1)
Top 3
2021 GRESB rank for Public Disclosure 
among North America industrial group(1)1.2 Million
sq. ft. LED lighting upgrades(2)
Green 
Financing
framework established to integrate 
sustainable finance in our capital strategy3 MW
of installed solar capacity added  
at 9 properties1.4 Million
sq. ft. of buildings with green 
certifications including LEED, BREEAM 
and DGNB added to the portfolio2.36 Million
sq. ft. of green building certifications 
underway for 10 properties (including 
properties under development)(3) Tenant Survey
to determine satisfaction levels and 
measure interest in sustainable 
initiatives(1)
$34,296
paid out towards employee tuition 
and professional fees in 2020(4)$573 Million
available liquidity as of December 31, 
2020, from deleveraging effort and 
proactive financing strategies — 16 properties with bicycle storage acquired
 — 6 buildings with EV charging stations acquired
 — 3 MW of capacity of solar panels over 9 acquired properties
 — 2 properties acquired that utilize land for grazing** 
 — 17 MW of potential capacity from 30+ renewable energy projects assessed for 
feasibility 
63+37 100%
of properties assessed for climate 
change risk(1)Developed ESG 
Framework
outlining key milestones and operational 
initiatives with executive compensation 
linked to ESG metrics and deliverables 
of employees are women(4)
61%63%Environmental Social Governance 
of managers are women(4)Improved
accessibility through ramp installations 
and washroom upgrades at 5 buildings 
representing 190,000 sq. ft.(1)
96%
employee response rate for employee 
engagement satisfaction survey 
63+37Centralized
technology platform for marketing, 
leasing and asset management 
to improve tenant relationship 
management
Priemyselný Park 460,  
Kostolné Kračany, SlovakiaDream Industrial REIT
2020 Highlights
17 MW
of potential installed solar capacity from 
30+ renewable energy projects assessed  
for feasibility40 Assets
with energy ratings of EPC B or higher 
totaling 5.2 million sq. ft. Protected  
Employees
by ensuring rigorous health and safety 
measures were taken to during the 
COVID-19 pandemicImproved
financial resiliency by increased scale 
of portfolio to $3.2 billion in 2020, 
further diversified portfolio and tenant 
mix, and achieved an investment grade 
credit rating significantly improving our 
access to capitalOur sustainability strategy enables us to establish 
meaningful and realistic benchmarks, measure our progress 
and integrate our environmental and social obligations into 
the ways we manage our business and create value.
Top 25%
ESG Risk Rating. This represents  
a low risk(5)
(1)   Occurred as of September 30, 2021. 
(2)   Between January 1, 2020 and September 30, 2021.
(3)   Existing and forecasted building areas as of September 30, 2021. 
(4)   Includes only employees dedicated to Dream Industrial REIT activities and excludes employees on unpaid leaves of
absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) and interns.
(5)   Based on 1,054 real estate companies rated by Sustainalytics globally.  As of December, 2021. 
Copyright ©2021 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This [publication/ article/ section] contains information developed by 
Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party 
suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an endorsement of 
any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a 
particular purpose. Their use is subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.
80Dream Industrial REIT
ESG Scorecard
6 Mesonweg,  
Utrecht, NLIndicator 2019(1)2020(1)
Energy
Cumulative percentage of total floor area with energy consumption data coverage(3)NA(2)28%
Cumulative percentage of eligible portfolio that has an energy rating(4)NA(2)25%
Annual mWh of renewable energy produced(5)2,507 2,975(6)
GHG Emissions
Cumulative percentage of total floor area with GHG data coverage(3)NA(2)28%
Water
Annual water savings from climate-controlled irrigation (litres)(7)15,667,000 13,331,000
Cumulative percentage of total floor area with water consumption data coverage(8)NA(2)42% 2021 Year-
to-date 
Progress (1) Building Lighting Upgrades
Cumulative total floor area with lighting upgrades (sq. ft.)(9)10.8M(13)11.4M 14.1M(10)
Green Building
Percentage of portfolio GLA with green building classification(11)2% 10% 17%(10)
Renewable Energy
Cumulative on-site solar PV system capacity (kW)(5)2,433 2,817(6)5,795
Cumulative percentage of total floor area with on-site renewable energy generation(5)(12)3.7% 4.2% 5.9%(10)
(1)    There has been a significant change in portfolio size in 2019, 2020 and 2021.The change is the result of acquisitions and dispositions of assets in the portfolio. Each year's
energy, GHG, water, building lighting upgrades, building classification and renewable energy data is based on the relevant properties owned for the full calendar year in that year. 
(2)    Metric was not calculated in 2019.   
(3)    Represents percentage of total GLA under EWRB regulation and GLA representing 100% floor area of properties where DIR.UN has operational control over energy
consumption including outdoor lighting and common areas.  
(4)    Energy ratings include GLA representing 100% of floor area of properties with Energy Star Portfolio Manager scores and Energy Performance Certificates (EPC) ratings 
(5)    Includes capacity from roof-top solar PV that is leased to third parties.  
(6)    Includes estimations from engineering calculations for some solar panel systems where production data was not provided.  
(7)    Data is based on 42 sites in Calgary.  
(8)    Represents percentage of total GLA under EWRB regulation, GLA representing 100% floor area of properties where DIR.UN has operational control over water and some
estimated water consumption from properties in Quebec. 
(9)    Includes T5 upgrades that were completed prior to 2019. Upgrades in 2020 and beyond are LED.  
(10)  As of 30 September 2021 and includes portfolio under U.S. Fund at 24.5% owned share.   
(11)  Green building classifications include LEED (Silver, Gold or Platinum), DGNB (Silver, Gold or Platinum), BREEAM (Very Good, Excellent or Outstanding), BOMA BEST (Silver,
Gold or Platinum), Green Globes (Two, Three, Four), Toronto Green Standards (Tier 2,3,4), EPC (level A or B).  
(12)  Represents total GLA of buildings with rooftop solar system. 
(13)  In 2019 Sustainability Report, we reported 11.3M sq ft with lighting upgrades; this value included 2020 Year-To-Date values and prior years. ESG Scorecard
Goals
Allocate at least $650M  to eligible green 
projects by 2025 (as per Green Financing 
Framework)
Upgrade an additional 5M sq. ft.  of portfolio 
to LED lighting by 2025 vs 2020 baseline
Pursue green building certifications for an 
additional 2.7 million sq ft. (includes LEED, 
BOMA or DGNB) by 2025 vs 2020 baseline
Determine feasibility for 17 MW  of solar 
photovoltaic installed capacity by 2025
Obtain green building certification (LEED, 
BOMA or DGNB) on 100%  of our new 
developments starting in 2022
Develop and implement sustainable roofing 
policy in 2022
Measure and disclose all energy, water and 
waste data for all operational buildings within 
defined boundary by 2025
81How Our ESG Framework 
Applies to DIR.UN
The following sections in this chapter will 
illustrate how we are addressing material ESG 
topics for DIR.UN and provide examples of how 
our industrial business contributes positively to 
social and environmental outcomes.
ESG topics that are a key priority for DIR.UN:Key Accomplishments
Within the real estate industry there is general agreement that in order for countries 
to meet the Paris Agreement all buildings will need to emit net zero GHG emissions 
by 2050. Leadership is needed to show the industry how this will be achieved sooner 
rather than later.  In 2021, we launched our Net Zero Steering Committee and 
announced our net zero goals for each Dream entity. 
Dream’s overarching commitment to Building Better Communities requires us to 
address climate change. Beyond the ESG and impact metrics and targets built into 
each of our projects, we are committed to an overall net zero approach, a thoughtful 
and specific approach to reducing carbon emissions in line with international 
standards and commitments. We look forward to sharing our net zero strategy in 2022, 
which will include best-in-class methodologies, science based interim targets, road-
maps and reporting requirements.
In 2021, DIR.UN will be supporting three voluntary international initiatives to 
demonstrate commitment to climate action and responsible investing: 
As part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment1, DIR.UN, is supporting the Net 
Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) Initiative↗ , which is a group of international asset managers 
committed to supporting the goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, 
in line with global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.
As part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment1, DIR.UN is supporting the United 
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI)↗ , which includes a group of more 
than 4,300 investment managers and asset owners from nearly 90 countries committed to 
developing a more sustainable global financial system.  
DIR.UN became an official supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) ↗ which provides guidance and recommendations to help companies 
provide better climate disclosures to support capital allocation. More than 2,300 companies 
support the TCFD and Dream is one of the first Canadian public real estate companies to 
become an official supporter. 
(1)  While DRM is the official signatory, DIR.UN will be an active participant and included in the boundary for reporting to the
NZAM initiative and UN PRI as part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment.
DIR.UN has committed to be net zero by 
2035 for operations including Scope 1 
and 2 emissions and net zero by 2050 for 
select Scope 3 emissions
Exportweg 20–20,  
Waddinxveen, NetherlandsFR SR OE BP —Certifications
 —Amenities and atmosphere
 —Climate change and 
resilience
 —Carbon and resource 
efficiency —ESG impact and 
management 
 —Valuing employees 
 —Tenant relationshipsDream Industrial REIT
 
82Dream Industrial REIT
Our ESG Approach
DIR.UN aspires to be a market leader in 
sustainability. 
We have a responsibility to manage and mitigate our 
overall impact on the environment. We recognize that 
sustainability and impact investing is fundamental to how 
we do business and is a key driver of creating long-term 
value for its stakeholders. 
Our approach to sustainability includes increasing energy 
efficiency throughout our portfolio, engaging tenants, 
lowering operational costs and incorporating energy 
management initiatives into our capital expenditures. 
At the property level, DIR.UN promotes energy 
efficiency amongst its tenants through education and 
awareness including coordination of energy audits with 
recommendations to reduce consumption and costs. As 
part of the asset management and investment processes, 
DIR.UN actively seeks to incorporate energy management 
initiatives into its capital plans. Sustainability initiatives 
that reduce resource intensity or increase building 
efficiency help to reduce costs for tenants and help make 
our buildings more leasable.
In 2020, we have taken action on many of our 2019 
forward-looking priorities as described in the following 
sections. In 2021, we furthered our commitment to 
sustainability by developing an ESG action plan and 
road-map to enhance our ESG approach and take 
meaningful steps towards implementing sustainability 
initiatives across the business. 
Hecto 1-3,  
Zevenaar, Netherlands
83Policy Development 
In 2021, we partnered with a third-party consultant to develop 
an enhanced suite of sustainability policies governing our 
management of capital investments, biodiversity, green building 
certifications, waste, sustainable procurement, and new 
developments. Numerous sessions were conducted to incorporate 
feedback from internal stakeholder teams including property 
management, leasing and investments.
Our updated energy conservation policy recognizes that energy 
consumption is an important part of lessening climate change as 
it outlines practices to reduce emissions and our carbon footprint.
Our new green building certification policy will enable DIR.UN to 
implement management practices to prioritize building efficiency, 
as it outlines practices to decrease operational costs, increase 
asset value, and ensure productivity, comfort, health, and 
wellbeing for occupants.
DIR.UN understands its part in minimizing the negative impact 
of its buildings on the environment. Our environmental policy 
is focused on providing holistic training to intensify in-house 
knowledge, and deliver the practical guidance and technical 
specifications necessary to identify, implement and measure 
sustainable improvements to our portfolio.  
These new policies will serve to broaden and formalize our 
commitment to advancing sustainability at DIR.UN and 
complement our existing sustainability policies for property 
operations including our Tenant Sustainability Handbook, 
Guide to Sustainable Building Operations, and Sustainable 
Procurement Policy for operations staff. Providing excellent 
communication and guidance to tenants and operations staff 
is important to ensuring operational practices are aligned with 
our sustainability priorities and goals. Implementation of our new 
policies is planned for 2022. Data Collection
Over the last year, we have employed multiple strategies 
to improve data coverage in our portfolio. These strategies 
include setting data collection requirements for our renewable 
energy initiatives in Alberta and Europe, setting a target for 
collecting data from areas under Dream’s operational control 
and single-tenant buildings, initiating a tenant outreach 
strategy to expand opportunities to improve data collection 
and tracking, as well as hiring a consultant to engage tenants 
on data collection. Ontario’s mandatory Energy and Water 
Reporting and Benchmarking (EWRB) program is an additional 
tool that has helped to bolster our data collection efforts for 
our properties in Ontario. Using these tactics, we improved data 
coverage by 28% from 2019 to 2020. 
We are working on several initiatives to make further improvements 
in our data coverage including tenant education and awareness 
and partnering with industry leading consulting firms.
In 2021, we conducted a tenant survey to benchmark tenant 
sustainability priorities and goals, identify priority initiatives 
and assets for sustainability investments, and provide 
insight into opportunities to broker new sustainability-related 
partnerships. The majority of the respondents indicated 
an interest in sustainable initiatives and we will be holding 
feedback sessions with tenant sustainability teams to review 
results, develop action plans and discuss the importance of 
integrating energy, water and emission data collection to 
inform the process. Dream Industrial REIT
 
2360 Cornwall Road  
Oakville, ONWe improved data coverage 
by 28% from 2019 to 2020. 
84Dream Industrial REIT
Environmental
GHG, Energy & Water Management:
DIR.UN is actively focused on managing the carbon 
footprint of our buildings and pursuing energy efficiency in 
our assets wherever possible.
Our strategy is built on two key pillars – data collection and portfolio 
optimization.
Data Collection  - We are developing a robust system to efficiently collect 
and track energy usage and emissions data across our global portfolio. Our 
primary focus will be to collect, report and establish targets on emissions for 
which we have operational control, including company facilities and vehicles 
and utilities that we pay for and manage directly, such as multi-tenant 
exterior lighting and house meters. We will continue to focus on improving 
the coverage and quality of data as we collect it, which will include utility 
bill reviews with data analytics and the potential implementation of real-time 
data monitoring. In addition, we will work with our tenants to understand 
their energy usage and provide support to identify trends, demand spikes 
and efficiency challenges.  By working with our tenants to understand their 
emissions, we will also gain valuable information to guide our strategy to 
improve sustainability across our portfolio.
Portfolio Optimization  - DIR.UN has been developing a GHG emissions 
methodology to target and measure reductions wherever feasible across our 
global portfolio. We are utilizing several levers such as improving sustainable 
measures across our portfolio through energy efficient lighting, better 
roofing, sustainable landscaping and investments in clean power. We also 
strive to minimize our use of potable water and decrease water consumption 
where possible through irrigation monitoring and water fixture upgrades. In 
addition, DIR.UN continues to allocate capital towards sustainable buildings 
that are certified green through standards such as LEED, BREEAM, DGNB, 
BOMA BEST and Green Globes. We plan to further sustainable capital 
allocation through the usage of low carbon material in the construction of our 
rapidly expanding development pipeline. We have provided further details on 
each of these initiatives in this section.
300 Orenda Road  
Brampton,  ON
Green Lease Strategy 
In 2021,  DIR.UN upgraded our standard lease to a green lease based 
on Green Lease Leader Guidelines and will be adopting a green lease as 
a standard going forward. 
Notable clauses within our  green lease  include commitments to tenant energy disclosures, 
green construction practices,  the purchase of on-site renewable energy (if available), and 
tenant energy efficiency engagement and training. In addition, cost recovery clauses 
for energy efficient upgrades will allow DIR.UN to recoup and amortize capital costs for 
upgrades that will contribute to emissions reductions. Our tenant welcome package is 
also being updated to provide tenants with a sustainability contact at Dream Industrial, 
and will incorporate policies and guidance on biodiversity, sustainable design and 
operations, waste management, sustainable procurement, and green cleaning.   
85Green buildings
Energy efficiency
Renewable energy
Sustainable water and  
 wastewater management
The Framework has been reviewed by DNV, a global leader in pioneering 
green, social, and sustainable financial frameworks. In addition, DIR.UN 
has established a Green Financing Committee which will be responsible for 
evaluating and approving eligible projects for green financing, in accordance 
with the evaluation criteria set out in the Green Financing Framework. The 
Green Financing Committee is a cross-departmental committee co-chaired 
by the COO and CFO and made up of senior executives representing the 
following relevant departments at DIR.UN: Finance, Sustainability and 
Portfolio Management. The Committee meets at least once annually to review 
and approve eligible projects and existing allocation of proceeds. 
More Information 
Dream Industrial REIT Green Financing Framework↗Green Financing  
DIR.UN continues to allocate significant capital towards 
sustainable initiatives within its existing portfolio as well as 
towards new investment opportunities.
To efficiently facilitate this endeavor, DIR.UN has established a Green 
Financing Framework, which allows it to raise capital in support of its 
sustainable investment strategy. Under the Framework, DIR.UN, or any 
of its subsidiaries, may issue green bonds, green loans or other financial 
instruments to finance or re-finance eligible green projects that are aligned 
to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and encompass the 
following categories: 
Clean transportation
Biodiversity and conservation 
Pollution prevention and control
Adaptability and resilience to 
climate change
Green Projects Completed
Green-certified Buildings  
and EPC Labelled Buildings(1)(2) LED Upgrades 
Canada $40M $1.3M
Europe $247M -
Total $287M $1.3M
(1)  As of September 30, 2021. 
(2)  Excludes green certifications underway for new developments and expansions.We have identified a further $240M of eligible green projects that are 
currently underway including green building certifications in our existing 
portfolio and investments in clean power. These eligible projects could be 
applied to future green bond issuances, including our second green bond 
for $250M which is expected to close in early December 2021.  We expect 
that these projects will be completed by early to mid-2022 and more eligible 
projects will be initiated as we expand our portfolio of green-certified 
buildings and commence more renewable energy installations.
Green Projects Currently Underway:
Green Projects Underway
Green-certified Buildings(1)(2) Investments in  
Clean Power 
Canada $138M $2.3M
Europe $96M $2.5M
Total $234M $4.8MIn order to allow its various stakeholders to assess its progress on its green 
financing program, DIR.UN will provide annual updates in accordance with 
the Green Financing Framework. Updates will also be available on its website 
until the net proceeds of any green financing are fully allocated to eligible 
green projects. 
In 2021, DIR.UN issued a $400 million inaugural Green Bond and is well 
underway in allocating the proceeds towards its sustainable investment 
plans. To date, DIR.UN has financed, refinanced, or completed over $288 
million of eligible green projects.   
The table below summarizes the allocation of the proceeds that have been 
completed to date:
(1)  As of September 30, 2021. 
(2)  In compliance with the Green Bond Framework.650 rue Bergeron,  
Drummondville, QC  Dream Industrial REIT
 
86Renewable Energy 
We are continually exploring opportunities to invest in clean power in our 
Canadian and European portfolios. Capital investments in solar panels 
provide DIR.UN with an opportunity to significantly reduce GHG emissions 
while creating a financially viable revenue stream. It also offers an element 
of cost certainty to our tenants in an unpredictable energy market. Including 
existing panels, we are targeting to install over 50,000 solar panels across 3.5 
million sq. ft., representing over 10% of our total portfolio as of September 
30, 2021. 
In Western Canada, we are working with the Energy Savings for Business 
subsidy from Emissions Reduction Alberta to install up to 6,300 roof-top 
solar panels on several buildings in our portfolio. We are also progressing 
on a feasibility assessment of the installation of up to 31,700 solar panels 
in the Netherlands, pursuant to the subsidy that was granted by the Dutch 
government in 2020. Additional solar projects are being assessed and we will 
continue to seek opportunities to expand the scale of our renewable energy 
projects in Europe.
LED
Lighting is one of the most significant and consistent sources of energy 
consumption and utility costs in our portfolio. LED (light emitting diodes) 
lights require substantially less energy, have a longer lifespan, produce 
less heat and provide more illumination than conventional lighting such as 
incandescent bulbs.  DIR.UN is focused on transitioning our interior and 
exterior lighting to LEDs. We continue to optimize opportunities to upgrade 
lighting when tenants renew or when space is returned to us. 
In addition, we have commenced an outreach program to increase tenant 
awareness of the environmental and financial benefits of LED technology and 
provide them with an opportunity to upgrade lighting during their lease term. 
Our 2021 tenant survey identified that more than 80% of the respondents 
are interested in pursuing LED retrofits on their premises, which demonstrates 
that our LED outreach program has been very well received. DIR.UN is 
committed to improving energy efficiency through lighting retrofit projects.
(1)  The above indicators exclude LED retrofits for external areas of the building. 
(2)  Note: Upgrades completed in 2020 were lower than average due to adherence to COVID-19
public health restrictions during lockdown periods.(1)   Existing in Canada and Europe includes solar capacity that is leased to third parties. 
(2)   Projects identified under planning are in feasibility assessment phase as of Sept 30, 2021; not
  all projects may proceed due to feasibility. Existing  
(as of Q3 2021) (1)
Capacity (kW)Under development
Capacity (kW)Planning(2)
Capacity (kW)Total
Capacity (kW)
Canada 3,102 1,668 1,189 5,959
Europe 2,693 2,401 11,905 16,999
Total Capacity (kW) 5,795 4,069 13,094 22,958
2019 2020(2)2021 YTD
LED Upgrades (in sq ft)(1)631,259 556,000 704,738
LED Upgrades (in $)(1)643,885 604,000 683,614LED UpgradesSolar Panels - Estimated System Capacity (kW)
Eiffelstrasse 4  
Herbrechtingen, Germany
5380 Timberlea Boulevard  
Mississauga, ONDream Industrial REIT
 
In 2021 we established a target to upgrade one million sq. ft. 
of GLA to LED in the year. We are tracking to meet our 2021 
target, a total of 705,000 sq. ft. of GLA was upgraded to LED 
lighting during the first three quarters of 2021.
87Sustainable Roofing 
Sustainable roofs can both save energy 
consumption and produce renewable energy. 
Energy savings can be achieved using properly insulated 
roofing systems, while white roofs save energy during 
the air-conditioning season by reflecting sunlight and 
reducing heat absorption. In addition, white roofs help 
mitigate heat-island effects in urban areas, reducing air 
pollution and global warming. 
DIR.UN has integrated sustainable attributes into our 
standard specifications for roof repairs and replacements 
and is committed to identifying opportunities to improve 
insulation and utilize light reflecting materials in our 
roofing projects. Prior to commencing any major roof 
work, we evaluate if a building is a potential candidate 
for rooftop renewable energy and will adapt the roof 
specifications to ensure the roof is solar ready.  
We intend to launch a broader roofing upgrade program 
in our portfolio and will be targeting to install insulated 
roofing systems with sustainable attributes covering over 
2 million sq. ft. over the near to medium term. 
Case Study
Green Roofs
Our 182,000 square foot building in Offenau, Germany has 
an extensive green roof, which is covered with a layer of low-
profile, self sustaining plants with no artificial irrigation.  The 
roof construction consists of metal decking and is covered with 
insulation and synthetic roofing membrane. The main roof 
parts are intensive green roofs with integrated roof light domes. 
Rainwater is discharged via irrigation. The addition of this green 
roof to our portfolio will provide our property management teams 
with valuable and transferable insight into the structure and 
performance of green roofs that can be considered for applications 
elsewhere in our portfolio in the future.  
FR
Portfolio Area with Cool Roofing (in sq. ft.) 
2019 6.1M
2020 6.8M
2021 YTD 11.2M(1)
(1)  Includes US portfolio at 100%.
Talweg 40  
Offenau, GermanyDream Industrial REIT
 
Carbon and resource efficiency
Climate change resilience
Waste Reduction 
DIR.UN aims to reduce the ecological footprint of its portfolio 
wherever feasible and actively contribute to the long-term 
sustainability for all our projects by taking an integrative 
approach. We actively seek opportunities to integrate aspects 
of circularity into our renovation and construction projects.  In 
Calgary, we secured 14,000 sq. ft. of slightly used carpet that 
was being disposed of from a downtown office tower and installed 
the carpet in a show suite and several smaller tenant spaces. 
Our contractors in Quebec track the recycling of demolished 
construction materials on mid to large size projects.Emil-Lux-Str. 1  
Wermelskirchen, Germany  
88Sustainable Buildings
Green building certifications help us incorporate a range 
of sustainability features into our properties and provide 
tenants and investors with credible proof points of ESG 
features of buildings.
As part of our ESG action plan, we are currently evaluating the scope of work 
required to obtain certification on an initial set of seven buildings in Canada and 
Europe. We are also incorporating green certification criteria into our development 
strategy and are targeting LEED certification on two building expansions that are 
currently under construction in Canada. We are also targeting DGNB Gold on a 
project that is in the planning stages in Radeberg, Germany.
In addition, we are actively expanding our portfolio of green certified 
buildings through our investment pipeline in Canada and Europe. In 2020, 
we acquired over 2 million sq. ft. of buildings with an Energy Performance 
Certificate (EPC) rating of B or higher. In 2021, we have acquired over 3 
million sq. ft. of buildings with an EPC rating of B or higher, including one 
building that is certified BREEAM Excellent, two buildings that are certified 
BREEAM Very Good and one building that is certified DGNB Gold. We also 
acquired a building that is certified LEED Gold. Case Study
Pursuing Green  
Building Certifications
DIR.UN partnered with a tenant in 2021 to conduct a feasibility 
assessment to obtain LEED O&M Silver on a 30,000 sq. ft. 
building in Calgary.  The feasibility assessment was successful 
and the certification process will be completed in early 2022.  The 
building is outperforming buildings of similar size and occupancy, 
both locally and globally in water use. The certification will 
expand our portfolio of green certified buildings, and aligns with 
our tenant’s sustainability goals and commitments. Case Study
Green Building Certifications 
in Development
DIR.UN is pursuing the development of a 241,544 sq. ft. logistic 
center in Radeberg, Germany, intensifying excess land in our 
portfolio. German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) Gold 
certification will be pursued and the building total performance 
score is projected between 65% and 85%. The building roof is 
being designed with the intent to install solar panels in the future.  
DIR.UN is planning an initial installation of two EV charging 
stations with the capacity to add more stations based on tenant 
demand. Biodiversity has been given special consideration for this 
project as the existing brownfield site is being redeveloped without 
affecting the surrounding area.  
Certification and  
Energy Ratings
LEED BREEAM BOMA BEST DGNB EPC B  
and above
Certified buildings  
(in sq. ft.)244,805 690,487 351,306 269,161 5,190,774
In progress including 
developments underway   
(in sq. ft.)1,629,778 486,830 - 569,478 -
Total GLA (in sq. ft.) 1,874,583 1,177,317 351,306 838,639 5,190,774
(1)   Based on assets in portfolio as of September 30, 2021. Some properties may have more than one green building certification or classification.
Developments underway include building expansions and new developments which are either under construction or in advanced planning.
The LEED® certification trademark is owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and is used with permission.
BREEAM is a registered trademark of BRE (the Building Research Establishment Ltd. Community Trade Mark E5778551).  
The BREEAM marks, logos and symbols are the Copyright of BRE and are reproduced by permission.BP
BP
Radeberg  
Germany, EU
2876 Sunridge Way NE  
Calgary, ABDream Industrial REIT
 
Carbon and resource efficiency
Certifications
Connectivity
CertificationsCertification and Energy Ratings Chart:(1)FR
89Sustainable Development:
Dream Industrial has an active development 
program. Our development strategy has three key 
components:
1. New development
2. Intensification of excess land on our income-producing 
properties 
3. Redevelopment of existing properties
Our near-term development program is comprised of 10 
intensification, new development and redevelopment projects 
across North America and Europe with a target GLA of 
approximately 3.7 million sq. ft. For additional details on our 
development projects, please refer to Dream Industrial REIT MD&A.
Our buildings are the largest contributor to our environmental 
footprint. In addition to building best-in-class, modern logistics 
premises that meet the requirements of our occupiers, we are 
pursuing industry leading building technologies with the objective 
to maximize the energy efficiency of our portfolio and minimize 
the environmental footprint from the construction process and the 
operation of the building following completion. Our approach to sustainability in our development 
program includes: 
Green Certifications – our goal is to obtain green building 
certification on 100% of our new developments.   
Building Design – we are pursuing modern building design 
elements in our development projects including:  
• High efficiency wall and roofing insulation 
•  White, cool roofing surfaces 
•  Roofs structurally ready for installation of solar panels* 
• Enhanced natural light in the warehouse through 
additional glazing or skylights
• High efficiency HVAC units
• LED lighting with sensor motion control 
• High efficiency docks seals or vertical dock levelers  
Circularity of Building Materials – we are actively pursuing 
opportunities to enhance circularity and recycling of materials 
on our redevelopment projects.    
Sustainable Procurement – DIR.UN intends to expand its 
Sustainable Procurement Policy to include our development and 
construction projects 
Carbon Footprint – we are in the process of investigating 
strategies and technologies to pursue carbon-neutral 
construction in the near future.   
* Targeting solar ready roofs for larger projects that pass the initial economic feasibility for
solar installation  Projects 401 Marie-Curie Boulevard 100 East Beaver Creek Abbotside Drive Radeberg
Project type Intensification / expansion Intensification / expansion New Development Intensification/ expansion
Construction volume 230,000 sq. ft. 44,000 sq. ft. 152,000 sq. ft. 241,000 sq. ft.
Target green building 
certificationLEED Silver LEED Certified or Silver LEED Certified or Silver DGNB Gold
High efficiency wall and roofing 
insulation√ √ √ √
Cool/white roofs √ √ √ √
Solar ready roofs n/a n/a √ √
High efficiency HVAC √ √ √ √
LED lighting √ √ √ √
Enhanced natural light √ √ √ √
High efficiency dock seals √ √ √ √
401 Marie-Curie Boulevard  
Montreal, QC, Canada
100 East Beaver Creek  
Richmond Hill, ON, CanadaAbbotside Drive  
Caledon, ON, CanadaRadeberg, Germany
 401 Marie-Curie Phase 1 Expansion  
Montreal, QC, CanadaOur goal is to obtain green 
building certification on 100%  
of our new developments. Dream Industrial REIT
 
The table below summarizes the sustainable attributes of some of our near-term development 
projects that are in the advanced stages of planning and building design: 
DIR.UN Q3 Report↗
90Flooding 
Earthquake   
Wildfire   
WindstormTornado   
Hailstorm   
Lightning  
Case Study
Climate Controlled  
Water Management
We use climate-controlled irrigation at 42 of our sites in Calgary. 
The system uses real-time weather data from specialized water 
management weather stations to automatically adjust watering 
based on the best horticultural practices. Water schedules are 
programmed to meet specific landscape needs and detailed site 
assessments. The system also monitors seasonal performance 
to analyze opportunities for efficiencies. In 2020, we conserved 
13,331,000 litres of water, equivalent to five Olympic sized 
swimming pools.
FRCase Study
Responding to COVID-19
DIR.UN responded to the impact of the pandemic on our tenants 
through a comprehensive outreach program. Our teams connected 
directly with 100% of our tenants within the first 60 days of the 
lockdown.  We proactively offered a rent deferral program to 
tenants in need of financial assistance, to support the continuity 
of their business operations in uncertain times.  In addition, we 
provided extensive support to our tenants in the filing of their 
CECRA applications, to ensure they met application deadlines 
and submitted all required documentation. 
SR OE
Number of At-Risk Assets from Flooding(1)
DIR.UN 50-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)(2)100-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)(2)
1 86,000 13 1,900,000
200-year 
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)(2)500-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)(2)
17 2,400,000 14 2,600,000
(1)  Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated
in the figures in the other time categories. Changes from 2020 are the result of acquisitions or 
dispositions of assets since the previous reporting year. 
(2)  Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA). As at September 30, 2021.Physical Climate Risks
We conduct analysis on an annual basis to identify physical climate risks 
in our portfolio across each of our entities and assess the level of resiliency. 
Climate resiliency describes the actions to prepare, adapt and endure 
the shocks and stressors we face related to climate change. The goal of 
climate resilience is to reduce the likelihood and impact of a catastrophic or 
disruptive event on our properties and in our communities.  
Using third-party climate data, we assessed the physical climate risk at each 
property in DIR.UN’s portfolio against the following hazards:
We are committed to improving the resilience of our properties from the effects 
of physical climate risks. Using this analysis, we will be able to identify specific 
regions and properties with increased climate risk and identify opportunities to 
improve resilience through ongoing capital and operations investments.
As part of the physical climate risk analysis, we have updated the flood risk 
and catastrophic loss risk assessment in 2021 to identify properties in our 
portfolio that are at risk of losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year floods. Our 
next step in this process is to develop a plan to increase resilience to flooding 
and water damage and ensure there are supporting emergency management 
and business continuity procedures in place. 
3916 61st Avenue, 
Calgary, ABDream Industrial REIT
 
ESG risk management
Tenant relationships
Carbon and resource efficiency
91Case Study
EV Charging Stations
Impact 83, a 158,000 sq.ft. property just outside the town of 
Duiven, Netherlands currently has 42 EV charging stations 
installed that are used by our tenant’s employees. The building 
also has an EPC label of ‘A’ that highlights the energy efficiency 
of the building. Our portfolio currently includes a total of eleven 
buildings with over 50 charging stations for electric vehicles.  
In 2021 DIR.UN used our tenant outreach program to assess 
if tenants would like to have access to EV charging stations in 
our buildings, and 65% of respondents expressed interest. Going 
forward, we will be expanding the number of charging stations 
with a program that will align with our tenants’ requirements.
FRBP
100 East Beaver Creek,  
Richmond Hill, ON6 Lipariweg, 
Amsterdam, NLCase Study
LEED Certification  
Existing + Expansion
Construction is currently underway to build a 44,000 
sq.ft. expansion to the existing facility located at 100 East 
Beaver Creek Road in Richmond Hill, with an initial target 
of LEED Core & Shell certification for the expansion 
area.  The design of the building expansion contemplates 
each of the eight LEED categories to maximize energy 
performance, minimize the carbon footprint and contribute 
to a healthy indoor environment for the occupants.  In a 
parallel process, DIR.UN has also initiated LEED for Operations and Maintenance certification of the existing 
110,000 sq.ft. building. At the completion of both 
certifications, and once the appropriate commissioning is 
complete, DIR.UN plans to align and advance LEED status 
by re-certifying the entire building to achieve LEED Silver 
accreditation. Our phased approach to LEED certification 
creates an opportunity to optimize building performance in 
our existing portfolio while executing our strategy to design 
and build sustainable developments.Dream Industrial REIT
 
Case Study
Alveole Beehive
In 2020, DIR.UN partnered with Alveole to install a beehive 
at Glenmore Park in Calgary. The hive contains approximately 
50,000 bees during peak season in July and early August. Alveole 
visits the hive every 3 weeks to monitor health and productivity and 
perform maintenance. Annually, each hive produces approximately 
100 jars of delicious honey that we share with our tenants.
Our beehive is a unique tenant engagement tool that helps to 
promote positive attitudes toward protecting biodiversity in our 
local ecosystem. 
SRTenant relationships
Carbon and resource efficiency
Strong relationships
CertificationsCertifications
SR BP
Glenmore Park,  
Calgary, AB
92Case Study
Sustainable Attributes in  
New Acquisitions
Sustainability plays a significant role in our capital allocation 
decisions including our acquisition, development, and capital 
expenditure programs. In 2021, we acquired assets with a broad 
range of sustainable attributes including 182,000 sq.ft. of green 
roofs with self-sustaining plants, 16 properties with bicycle 
storage, 11 buildings with EV charging stations, 10 properties 
with solar panels comprising over 3 MW of capacity, 2 properties 
that utilize land for grazing, and a property with a beehive. 
When we evaluate potential acquisitions our due diligence 
process identifies a building’s sustainable attributes including EV 
charging stations, solar rooftop PV systems, bike storage, type 
of roof (white and green roofs), green building certifications, 
physical climate risk assessment and energy performance ratings 
(such as EPC and ESPM). We are continually updating our due 
diligence policy to stay current with technological advances in 
sustainability and regulatory requirements to ensure that we 
identify all existing sustainable attributes as well as opportunities 
to improve sustainability in the future.     
Case Study
Renewable Energy  
in Alberta
In 2020, DIR.UN commissioned feasibility assessments on over 
10 properties in Alberta to assess the viability of installing roof-
top solar PV systems. We are partnering with our tenants to 
provide them with the opportunity to purchase zero-emission 
energy to power their operations.  We have commenced two of 
the projects in 2021, and the remaining projects are in the final 
phase of review, with a total potential system capacity of 2.9 MW.
FR
6 Rue de Poitou,  
Bretigny sur Orge, FRDream Industrial REIT
 
ESG and impact management
ESG risk management
Newtonstraat 35  
Heerhugowaard, NL
6 Rue de Poitou,  
Bretigny sur Orge, FR
Lipariweg 6  
Amsterdam, NL
Parc des Béliers  
Brebieres, FR
OESRTenant relationships
Carbon and resource efficiency
93Dream Industrial REIT
Social
DIR.UN’s success as an organization comes 
from our strong and diverse workforce.
Over the past year, we have developed many initiatives 
and programs to support our employees during this 
challenging time. We are committed to promoting the 
highest standards of social responsibility throughout our 
organization and aim to improve the lives of everyone who 
works at Dream.  
Our people come from a wide range of backgrounds and 
places, bringing many valuable skills and perspectives 
to our team. The people we hire all have one thing in 
common: they share our company values and contribute 
to our company culture. 
Total Men WomenAge 
Under 30Age  
30-50Age  
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
CanadaUnited 
StatesEurope
New Hires(1)11 7 4 3 7 1 8 3 - -
Voluntary 
Turnover Rate(2) 9 % 5% 4% 3% 3% 3% 8% 1% - -60+40
39+61Gender Breakdown*
Employees
Managers
Executive Team**38%  Women
61% Women
34%* Women62% Men
39%  Men
66%* Men
**  Includes employees at all levels.
**  Executives of Dream Industrial are employees of
Dream Asset Management Corporation however the
CFO of DIR.UN is a woman, while the CEO and 
COO are men.
As of December 31, 2020, the average length of 
service for DIR.UN employees is 4.7 years.*
(1)  Includes only employees dedicated to Dream Industrial REIT and excludes employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave
and interns. 
(2) Turnover is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2020. (1) Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Industrial REIT and excludes employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental
leave) and interns.
(2) Numbers represented as total headcount, not full time equivalent.
(3) Includes permanent part-time employees.
(4) Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week.DIR.UN - Employee Summary
 New Hires and Turnover Rates*
Employee (1)(2) Total Men Women Central Canada Western Canada Europe
Permanent(3)78 30 48 53 25 0
Contract 2 0 2 2 0 0
Full-time(4)80 30 50 55 25 0
Part-time 0 0 0 0 0 0
$761,065
donated to charities and NGOs by 
DRM, DIR.UN’s asset manager in 2020. 66+34
94Case Study
Enhancements of Tenant 
Outdoor Space
We are continually seeking ways to enhance our tenants' 
experience and access to outdoor spaces.  At Glenmore Centre in 
Calgary, we added an additional 15 all weather picnic tables along 
with 10 bicycle racks for the 130+ tenants in the park, and worked 
with the City’s Urban Forest Planner to replace trees and enhance 
planting with local native species.  The landscape improvements 
benefit the business park as well as the surrounding community by 
promoting biodiversity.  At another property in Lachine, Quebec, 
we installed 7 outdoor picnic tables for our tenants. 
BPEmployee Engagement Survey
In 2021, as part of an initiative pursued by the entire Dream 
Group of Companies, we conducted an employee engagement 
survey to better understand employee satisfaction across a 
variety of topics.
The survey was deployed by Great Place to Work® Canada, as part of our 
certification process to be recognized as a Great Place to Work®, and we 
achieved an 86% participation rate. The Great Place to Work® certification  
is based upon the following factors:  
 — The level of trust that employees have in leadership 
 — The level of pride employees have in their jobs 
 — The extent to which employees get along with colleagues 
The survey results provided our People & Culture team with meaningful 
insights regarding employees’ satisfaction with our benefit program and 
leadership’s communication throughout the pandemic. For example: 
84%  of respondents agreed that “the organization’s current health 
benefits program (Medical, Dental, Employee Assistance Plan, 
Telemedicine, Health Spending Accounts, League etc.) meets or 
exceeds my needs"
97%  of respondents agreed that “Leadership has been keeping us 
informed of the emergency measures’ impact on the business during 
the COVID-19 pandemic"
96%  of respondents agreed that  “Leadership has kept me well-
informed of measures being taken by the organization to protect 
employees during the COVID-19 pandemic"
Glenmore Centre  
Calgary, ABDream Industrial REIT
 
Amenities and atmosphere
95Tenant Engagement Survey 
DIR.UN conducted a tenant engagement and 
satisfaction survey in 2021 to benchmark and 
enhance tenant satisfaction.
Sustainability-related questions have been incorporated into 
the survey to help us to better understand tenant sustainability 
preferences, identify priority assets for sustainability 
investments, such as rooftop solar and EV charging stations, 
and provide insight into opportunities to broker new 
sustainability-related partnerships. As part of this process,  
we are holding feedback sessions with tenant sustainability  
teams to discuss results and develop action plans.
Of the respondents:
71%  have shown interest in using renewable energy for 
their energy requirements. Dream Industrial’s progress 
in roof top solar projects and continuous research and 
analyses on other sources of renewable energy will 
address the interest of our tenants in getting access to 
cleaner forms of energy.
80% are interested in pursuing LED retrofits in their 
premises, which will inform our LED retrofit planning.
64%  of respondents have expressed interest in green building 
certifications, which we will align with our green certification 
program for our portfolio.  
55% are interested in installing EV charging stations  
at their buildings.
The insights gathered from the survey will inform DIR.UN’s 
ESG strategy and create opportunities to align tenant 
requirements with improved operational efficiencies.  
Going forward, DIR.UN will continue to conduct annual 
tenant surveys and will incorporate the results into our 
sustainability and portfolio management practices.
Case Study
Making our Buildings  
More Inclusive
We installed accessibility ramps at two buildings to enhance the 
access to the buildings. One ramp will service a 58,000 sq. ft. two 
story building currently occupied by 8 tenants and the second 
ramp will serve a two story 25,000 sq. ft. building. Accessible 
washrooms were also installed at both buildings. 
BPTenant Service  
Our management team and staff are committed to 
providing customer service excellence and continually 
improving the quality of our services through efficient 
property management, value-added services for our 
tenants and capital improvements to our assets. Our 
top priority is providing a physical environment that 
contributes to the well-being of our tenants and the 
success of their business. An important part of our 
success is our vertically integrated property management 
operations, which includes tenant services and property 
operations, lease administration accounting and 
reporting, and in-house construction management and 
leasing capabilities. We also provide tenants with a web-
enabled response system, dreamplus, that puts them 
in control of their needs with the ability to submit and 
monitor service requests online.  Updates that we issued 
to our tenants during the pandemic were communicated 
through dreamplus.
Glenmore Centre  
Calgary, ABDream Industrial REIT
 
Amenities and atmosphere
Health, safety and wellness
↗
96Dream Industrial REIT
Governance
As part of the ESG Framework, DIR.UN links ESG performance to executive  
and employee goals and compensation.
Sustainability at DIR.UN is managed by the following:  
Role Responsibility
Governance, Compensation and Environmental Committee Provide oversight of sustainability at the Board level 
ESG Executive CommitteeAdopt ESG Framework for each Dream entity 
Communicate sustainability strategy and commitment across company and key 
external stakeholders  
Delegate implementation to each entity’s sustainability and ESG team 
Report to the Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee  
Green Finance CommitteeA cross-departmental committee co-chaired by the COO and CFO and made 
up of senior executives representing the following departments at DIR: Finance, 
Sustainability and Portfolio Management
Established to provide oversight of DIR.UN's Green Bond Framework and to identify 
sustainable financing options
Sustainability and ESG TeamOversee and manage portfolio sustainability initiatives including  building 
certifications, energy, water and waste management and monitoring, as well as 
strategic initiatives 
Meet quarterly with the Sustainability Executive Committee
Sustainability Working GroupsResponsible for advancing sustainability initiatives and activities at company and 
property level
Includes four working groups covering the following focus areas: Green Property 
Operations, Employee Engagement, Tenant Engagement, Reporting and 
Communications 
Includes representatives from central functions, regions and properties 
Report monthly to the Sustainability and ESG teamGovernance, Compensation and Environmental Committee Members
Ben Mulroney
ChairJ. Michael Knowlton
MemberVicky Schiff
Member
* as of December, 2021.
25+75
25+7575% of DIR. UN Directors 
are independent*
25% of DIR.UN 
Directors are women*
97Financial Risk and Resilience 
We significantly improved the strength of our balance 
sheet and our financial resiliency in 2020.
We increased the scale of our portfolio in 2020 to $3.2 billion,  and 
further diversified our portfolio and tenant mix.  
We increased our unencumbered asset pool from $100 million or 
3.3% of total assets at the end of 2019 to $1.4 billion  or 41%  of 
assets at the end of 2020. 
In 2020, DIR.UN achieved an investment grade credit rating 
significantly improving our access to capital. 
As of December 31, 2020, our available liquidity amounted to 
$573 million  as a result of our deleveraging efforts as well as our 
proactive financing strategies. We have a comprehensive insurance 
program benchmarked regularly against peers and other public 
entities of our size and scale.67+18+15 67%
Canada15%
Europe
18%
U.S.Investment Properties by Region Industry Exposure by Annualized Gross RentInvestment Property Value
19+6+8+10+10+10+10+13+1414%
Diversified Industries19%
Other(1)
8%
Technical Services
10%
Consumer goods10%
Residential6%
Paper, Printing, and  
Packaging
10%
Auto10%
Food and beverage13%
LogisticsMarket Capitalization
2020 2020 2019 2019 2018 2018$2.1 $1.0$2.4$2.0$3.2$2.2
53% Growth114% GrowthBillions
Billions$3.5 $2.5
$3.0 $2.0
$2.5 $1.5
$2.0 $1.0
$1.5 $0.5
$1.0 $0
(1)  Comprising of 15 sectors each representing 5% or less.Dream Industrial REIT
 
98Dream Industrial REIT
 
Green Property Operations
The DIR.UN Green Property Operations group is responsible for integrating 
environmental sustainability in property operations. With input from across 
the regions we operate in, the working group supports the development 
and rollout of policy, programs, guidelines and tools to manage projects for 
energy, water, and waste management, procurement, leasing and marketing, 
and tenant engagement.Employee Engagement
By hosting social activities, organizing personal development programs and 
arranging inter-office competitions, the Employee Engagement works group 
works to raise awareness of sustainability practices throughout the Dream 
group of companies. The group encourages employees to understand and 
support commitments to sustainability, and measures progress, objectives, 
and activity effectiveness.Tenant Engagement
Through the leadership provided by our Tenant Engagement team, DIR works 
with tenants to share what Dream is doing to improve sustainability within 
our assets. The team supports tenants’ efforts to increase sustainability by 
working with sustainability committees and/or internal green committees 
to ensure that their sustainability efforts are supported. The group hosts 
activities to encourage tenants to be environmentally conscious, identify 
areas where efforts need further support and works to ensure high levels of 
satisfaction with the services provided.
Sustainability Reporting & Communications
Reporting and communicating our sustainability commitments, both 
internally and externally, are imperative to ensuring our success in reaching 
our Dream group of companies’ sustainability goals. This entails sharing 
information through newsletters, promoting DIR.UN’s efforts at conferences, 
increasing data and disclosure on DIR.UN’s website and publishing an annual 
external sustainability report.Profile: Sustainability Working Groups 
Across the Dream group of companies, we are committed  
to establishing and implementing sustainable practices. 
It is a valued part of our culture and work for our staff to be involved in our 
sustainability efforts.  To achieve our goals, we support four employee-led 
working groups that each lead the implementation of our activities and 
champion aspects of our sustainability efforts.
01 02
03 04Operational Risk and Resilience 
We advanced our assessment of the physical climate risk in 
our portfolio, including an update of the flood risk analysis 
and catastrophic loss risk assessment which was discussed 
earlier in this section.
We have implemented policies and Board oversight to ensure we operate in a 
reputable, fair, ethical and inclusive manner. Policies include our Corporate 
Code of Conduct, Diversity & Inclusion and Advancement Commitment, 
along with regular training and lunch & learn sessions for all employees.
We have a robust Disaster Recovery Plan which is reviewed and updated 
regularly to ensure that our systems can be recovered and our employees 
can work remotely in the event of a disaster.
Cyber Security
Dream is committed to cyber security and privacy through a combination of 
regular security awareness activities and use of next-generation protection 
technologies. Our cloud strategy involves an in-depth design around 
user access rights which supports our data governance initiatives. We 
perform regular assurance activities, which include internal and third-party 
vulnerability scanning and assessments, in order to manage exposure and risk.
Our cyber security team monitors threats and attacks and has implemented 
preventative measures to ensure that all systems and employees are protected. 
We have a robust set of processes and procedures for incident management 
and resolution, supported by a cycle of continuous improvement. In addition, 
we have a mandatory cyber-awareness training program for all employees 
which ensures that they can detect and report malicious behaviour. Dream Industrial REIT
 
99Dream Industrial REIT
 
1602 Tricont Avenue 
Whitby, ONFact Box
United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment ↗
The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN 
PRI) is the world’s leading responsible investor collaboration. It 
supports its signatories to incorporate environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) factors into their investment and ownership 
decisions. Signatories commit to follow UN PRI’s six principles and 
report annually on their progress through the UN PRI Reporting 
Framework. DRM, with support from DIR.UN, became a signatory 
to the UN PRI in 2021 and will report on our responsible investment 
activities starting in 2023. 
Taskforce for Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures↗ 
In 2017, the Financial Stability Board established the Taskforce 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to provide 
guidance and recommendations on climate-related risk and 
opportunity disclosures. The TCFD recommendations are 
structured around four core reporting areas: governance, 
strategy, risk management and metrics and targets. More than 
2,300 organizations support the TCFD. DRM, with support 
from DIR.UN, became an official supporter in 2021.
Net Zero Asset Manager↗
The Net Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) initiative is an alliance of 
global asset managers committing to supporting the goal of net 
zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, in line with the 
global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The initiative 
has 128 signatories and $43 trillion in assets under management. 
DRM, with support from DIR.UN, joined the NZAM initiative in 2021 
and there are currently less than 10 Canadian signatories.
100Forward-looking Plans
DIR.UN will continue to focus on executing its 
ESG action plan and road-map. Our key priorities 
include:
GRESB 2022
In 2022, we will evaluate our readiness to participate 
in the GRESB Real Estate Assessment by conducting 
a comprehensive GRESB diagnostic and opportunity 
assessment.
LED Retrofit Projects
DIR.UN is committed to improving energy efficiency through 
lighting retrofit projects. In 2021, we established a target to 
upgrade one million sq. ft. of GLA to LED in the year. We are 
on track to meet and exceed our target.  We will continue to 
measure and disclose annual LED targets for our portfolio and 
optimize opportunities to work with our tenants to upgrade 
lighting.
Developments and Refurbishments  
One of DIR.UN’s top forward-looking priorities is to incorporate 
sustainability more deeply into development processes. As DIR.
UN’s development pipeline grows, the organization is entering 
the planning phase on several new developments. Numerous 
re-development projects are also planned or underway. We 
will evaluate feasibility of green building certification for every 
development with the goal to obtain sustainability credentials 
for the vast majority of the projects. Our new sustainability 
policy for developments and refurbishments will guide this work.Dream Industrial REIT
 
Data Collection and Analytics
Improving data collection will continue to be a top priority for 
DIR.UN. In the coming year, we will continue to expand our 
data coverage, as well as invest in increasing our analytical 
capabilities to facilitate the establishment of sustainability KPIs 
and emissions targets. In addition, we will expand and refine 
the scope of sustainability metrics that are gathered during 
due diligence. This will help us to identify sustainable attributes 
that create opportunities to pursue green certification post-
acquisition.
Green Property Operations
DIR.UN will continue to integrate sustainability into our 
capital program. Our commitment to sustainable capital 
investments will focus on lighting upgrades, more efficient 
roofs and sustainable landscaping practices at our building 
sites. We will also pursue more green building certifications 
in the current portfolio including BREEAM, DGNB, BOMA and 
LEED certifications. We are currently evaluating demand 
for EV charging stations and will put a program in place in 
2022. DIR.UN will continue to work with our tenants and key 
stakeholders to identify and initiate additional sustainable 
projects through our green property operations program.
Capital Investments in Clean Power
Following the installation of solar panel projects in Canada 
and the Netherlands in 2021, DIR.UN will continue to explore 
renewable energy opportunities and government incentives to 
increase our portfolio of renewable energy. 
* DIR.UN commitments include net zero by 2035 for operations including Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and net zero by 2050 for 
select Scope 3 emissions.As One of the Dream Group of Companies, DIR.UN 
is Committed to:
Communicating our Plan to Reach Net Zero by 
2035  
DIR.UN has committed to net zero GHG emissions by 2035* – 
fifteen years ahead of the Paris Agreement. Over the next year 
we will communicate a thoughtful and specific strategy on 
how we will achieve this overarching goal with a detailed plan 
and annual milestones to reducing our Scope 1, Scope 2, and 
select Scope 3 emissions.  
Beginning to Fulfill NZAM Commitments 
In 2021, DIR.UN, as part of the Dream group of companies’ 
commitment, committed to the Net Zero Asset Managers ↗ 
Initiative. DIR.UN has set net zero targets and in 2022, DIR.UN 
will be setting interim targets for 2030. 
Evaluating UN PRI Readiness 
DIR.UN, as part of the Dream group of companies’ 
commitment, committed to the UN PRI in 2021. In 2022, we 
will prepare for participating in the UN PRI Reporting and 
Assessment Framework, starting in 2023. 
Increasing Alignment with the TCFD 
Recommendations 
In 2021, DIR.UN became an official supporter of the TCFD 
recommendations. We support the development of consistent 
climate disclosures and will develop a plan for DIR.UN to 
systematically assess climate change risk, in line with TCFD 
recommendations. Policy Execution 
In 2021, DIR.UN will implement the policies that have been 
drafted governing our management of capital investments, 
biodiversity, green building certifications, waste, sustainable 
procurement, and new developments. These policies will 
be incorporated into our Tenant Sustainability Handbook, 
Guide to Sustainable Building Operations, and Sustainable 
Procurement Policy to ensure that day-to-day operational 
practices are aligned with our commitment to sustainability.
Green Financing 
Financing proceeds of the $400 million inaugural Green 
Bond and future green bonds will be allocated, in accordance 
with the Green Financing Framework, to projects which 
may include green buildings, energy efficiency, renewable 
energy, sustainable water and waste-water management.  Our 
capital strategy will continue to incorporate green financing 
opportunities when assessing future debt requirements. 
Stevinlann 4  
Ede, Netherlands
101Entity Category Topic Content
Dream Group of 
CompaniesGovernance Business ethics Board Diversity Policy DRM Board Diversity Policy ↗    MPCT.UN Board Diversity Policy ↗    D.UN Board Diversity Policy ↗    DIR Board Diversity Policy ↗
Bribery & Corruption Policy and Programs DRM Disclosure Policy ↗    MPCT.UN Disclosure Policy ↗
Code of Conduct DRM Code of  Conduct ↗    MPCT.UN Code of  Conduct ↗    D.UN Code of  Conduct ↗    DIR Code of  Conduct ↗
Disclosure Policy DRM Disclosure Policy ↗    MPCT.UN Disclosure Policy ↗    D.UN Disclosure Policy ↗    DIR Disclosure Policy ↗
Diversity, Inclusion & Advancement Commitment DRM Diversity Inclusion & Advancement Commitment ↗    MPCT.UN Diversity Inclusion & Advancement Commitment ↗     
D.UN Diversity Inclusion & Advancement Commitment ↗    DIR Diversity Inclusion & Advancement  Commitment ↗
Charters and policies link DRM Charters & Policies ↗    MPCT.UN Charters & Policies ↗    D.UN Charters & Policies ↗    DIR Charters & Policies ↗
Majority Voting Policy DRM Majority Voting Policy ↗    MPCT.UN Majority Voting Policy ↗    D.UN Majority Voting Policy ↗    DIR Majority Voting Policy ↗
Whistleblower Policy DRM Whistleblower Policy ↗    MPCT.UN Whistleblower Policy ↗    D.UN Whistleblower Policy ↗    DIR Whistleblower Policy ↗
Social Alternative transportation Dream’s corporate head office is in the heart of downtown Toronto, within a five-minute walking distance from both King and Queen subway stations. The office 
is also within a 15-minute walk to Union Station, connecting employees to commuter trains, VIA rail and the Union-Pearson Express. Transportation supports 
provided to employees include onsite bike racks, reimbursement for public transit passes (only for director-level employees and above, as well as onsite EV 
charging stations).
Employee development Information on programs supporting degree 
programs and certifications for all employeesDream supports the achievement of degree programs and certifications for all employees through providing time off and financial support. We provide up to 
$2,500 for tuition reimbursement and $500 for textbooks per calendar year, as well as reimbursement for professional designation fees. Dream is also a CPA 
Ontario Training Employer that allow students in the CPA program to satisfy all their CPA Practical Experience Requirements while working here.  
DRM Management Information Circular ↗    MPCT.UN Management Information Circular ↗    D.UN Management Information Circular ↗    DIR Management Information Circular ↗
Health and safety Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationshipsDream encourages all employees to promote health, safety and wellbeing in the workplace. We all must comply with laws, as written and for their intended 
purpose. Employees are first introduced to the Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy and Workplace Violence, Discrimination and Harassment policy during 
their orientation. During orientation, employees are also instructed on how to comply with all government and legal requirements and industry standards in all 
jurisdictions where we operate. Dream offers many other policies that are available to employees at all times and are reviewed with each employee annually. 
Consistent monitoring of our Health and Safety program ensures the internal responsibility system is in practice. Incidents and accidents are tracked and 
analyzed using multiple data inputs. Health and safety metrics are reviewed and compared to industry standards and benchmarks. Our results are then 
analyzed, and an action plan is developed to mitigate the most common incidents. Joint Health and Safety Committees/Health and Safety Representatives 
review incident reports as well as establish and promote a safe work culture by holding regular meetings at all offices where they are required. 
Policy commitment to ensure product and service 
safetyManagement’s commitment to ongoing hazard assessment is promoted through workplace inspections, incident investigation and corrective actions. All incident 
reports are reported through the Incident/Injury Report Form available on the company website. During the reporting stage, the supervisor, in coordination with 
the Health and Safety Coordinator, will assess the scene, determine the root cause and provide any corrective actions that are needed. Management has taken on 
the responsibility to review all incident reports and review all Health and Safety Committee inspections and minutes.
Local spend & taxes
2020 income taxes $91,286,000
2020 property related taxes  
(Taxes paid on leased and owned property, school 
taxes, provincial/municipal land transfer tax or 
property registration taxes paid on the purchase of 
real property)$7,437,0 0 0
2020 Development and other charges  
(Development charges/fees paid, building permits, 
levies and the cost of municipal services installed)$65,423,000
2020 People taxes  
(Various payroll taxes including government 
pension, employment insurance, government health 
costs and workers’ compensation)$2,734,000
Tenant surveys conduct tenant/resident satisfaction surveys To ensure tenant / resident satisfaction, Dream regularly conducts surveys. Questions include sustainability content, response rate and scores are tracked.2020
Supplemental ESG Disclosure 
As real estate owners, managers and developers, we understand the importance of taxes in creating value and contributing to the Canadian economy. Dream entities are subject to a range of federal, provincial and 
municipal taxes, fees, charges and levies. Below we summarize the collective amounts paid in the normal course of operations. 
2020 Dream Entities Economic Contributions through Taxes Type
102Entity Category Topic Content
Dream Industrial 
REITGovernanceWhistleblower program Number of whistleblower reports received in 2020 1
Types of misconduct reported in 2020 Non-financial related complaint against employee not adhering to company policy
Measures taken in 2020 to address misconduct 1) Discussed and reviewed company policy with employee; 2) enhanced company policy; 3) reiterated and reminded employees at impacted office of 
company policy
Metric
Units 2019 2020
Dream Impact EnvironmentEnergy consumption by source (ekWh)  
GRI 302-1Total fuel consumption
ekWh 7,789,120 5,521,262
GJ 28,041 19,877
Total electricity consumption
ekWh 14,666,311 13,729,834
GJ 52,799 49,427
Dream Office 
REITEnvironmentEnergy consumption by source (ekWh)  
GRI 302-1  
SASB IF-RE-130a.2Total fuel consumption
ekWh 61,594,051 51,134,567
GJ 221,738 184,084
Total electricity consumption
ekWh 94,702,457 78,445,128
GJ 340,929 282,402
Total steam consumption
ekWh 14,121,115 11,719,263
GJ 50,836 42,189Dream Group of Companies
 
103Standard Section Page
GRI 102-45 Entities included About this Report 3
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About this Report 3
GRI 102-48 Restatements of information About this Report 3
GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting About this Report 3
GRI 102-50 Reporting period About this Report 3
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report About this Report 3
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report 3
GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this Report 3
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this Report 3
GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting About this Report 3
GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from the President and Chief Responsible Officer 4
GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
GRI 102-4 Location of operations Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
GRI 102-6 Markets served Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
GRI 102-12 External initiatives Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Stakeholder Engagement 12
GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 12
GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 12
GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement 12
GRI 102-18 Governance structure Governance & Risk 13
GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance & Risk 132020
Standards References: GRI, SASB, TCFD 
Standard Section Page
GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social 
topicsGovernance & Risk 13
GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Governance & Risk 17
GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest Business Ethics 19
GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Employee Engagement and Development 22
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity, Inclusion & Advancement 25
GRI 403-9 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 
absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalitiesHealth & Safety 29
GRI 102-18 Governance structure DRM Governance 45
GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social 
topicsDRM Governance 45
GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization MPCT.UN Environmental 54
GRI 302-3 Energy intensity MPCT.UN Environmental 54
GRI 303-5 Water withdrawal by source MPCT.UN Environmental 54
GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions MPCT.UN Environmental 54
GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions MPCT.UN Environmental 54
GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity MPCT.UN Environmental 54
GRI 306-3 Waste generated MPCT.UN Environmental 54
GRI 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal MPCT.UN Environmental 54
GRI 306-5 Waste directed to disposal MPCT.UN Environmental 54
GRI 102-18 Governance structure MPCT.UN Governance 61
GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social 
topicsMPCT.UN Governance 61
GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization D.UN Environmental 69
GRI 302-3 Energy intensity D.UN Environmental 69
GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source D.UN Environmental 69
GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions D.UN Environmental 69
GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions D.UN Environmental 69
GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity D.UN Environmental 69
GRI 306-3 Waste generated D.UN Environmental 69
GRI 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal D.UN Environmental 69
104Standard Section Page
GRI 306-5 Waste directed to disposal D.UN Environmental 69
GRI 102-18 Governance structure D.UN Governance 76
GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social 
topicsD.UN Governance 76
GRI 102-18 Governance structure D.UN Governance 76
GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social 
topicsD.UN Governance 76
SASB IF-RE-000.A Number of assets Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
SASB IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
SASB IF-RE-000.D Average occupancy rate Dream Group of Companies Overview/Corporate Information 6
SASB: IF0402-09 Discussion of water management risks and description of 
strategies and practices to mitigate those risksRisk Management 17
SASB IF-RE-450a.1. Area of properties located in 100-year flood zones, by property 
subsectorRisk Management 17
SASB: IF0402-14 Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of 
systematic portfolio exposure, and strategies for mitigating risksRisk Management 17
SASB IF-RE-000.A Number of assets DRM Overview 6
SASB IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area DRM Overview 6
SASB IF-RE-130a.5 Description of how building energy management considerations 
are integrated into property investment analysis and operational strategyDRM Environmental 39
SASB IF-RE-140a.4 Description of water management risks and discussion of 
strategies and practices to mitigate those risksDRM Environmental 39
SASB IF-RE-450a.1. Area of properties located in 100-year flood zones, by property 
subsectorDRM Environmental 39
SASB IF-RE-450a.2 Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of 
systematic portfolio exposure, and strategies for mitigating risksDRM Environmental 39
SASB IF-RE-000.A Number of assets MPCT.UN Overview 47
SASB IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area MPCT.UN Overview 47
SASB IF-RE-130a.2. (1) Total energy consumed by portfolio area with data coverage MPCT.UN Environmental 54
SASB IF-RE-130a.4. Percentage of eligible portfolio that (1) has an energy rating MPCT.UN Environmental 54
SASB IF-RE-130a.5. Description of how building energy management considerations 
are integrated into property investment analysis and operational strategyMPCT.UN Environmental 54
SASB IF-RE-140a.2. (1) Total water withdrawn by portfolio area with data coverage MPCT.UN Environmental 54
SASB IF-RE-140a.4. Description of water management risks and discussion of 
strategies and practices to mitigate those risksMPCT.UN Environmental 54
SASB IF-RE-450a.1. Area of properties located in 100-year flood zones, by property 
subsectorMPCT.UN Environmental 54
SASB IF-RE-450a.2 Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of 
systematic portfolio exposure, and strategies for mitigating risksMPCT.UN Environmental 542020
Standards References: GRI, SASB, TCFD 
Standard Section Page
SASB IF-RE-000.A Number of assets DIR.UN Overview 79
SASB IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area DIR.UN Overview 79
SASB IF-RE-130a.4. Percentage of eligible portfolio that (1) has an energy rating DIR Environmental 85
SASB IF-RE-130a.1 Energy consumption data coverage as a percentage of total floor 
area, by property subsectorDIR Environmental 85
SASB IF-RE-140a.1 Water withdrawal data coverage as a percentage of (1) total floor 
areaDIR Environmental 85
SASB IF-RE-410a.3 Discussion of approach to measuring, incentivizing, and 
improving sustainability impacts of tenantsDIR Environmental 85
SASB IF-RE-450a.1. Area of properties located in 100-year flood zones, by property 
subsectorDIR Environmental 85
SASB IF-RE-450a.2 Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of 
systematic portfolio exposure, and strategies for mitigating risksDIR Environmental 85
TCFD Risk Management A: Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks  Risk Management 17
TCFD Risk Management B: Describe the organization’s processes for managing 
climate-related riskRisk Management 17
TCFD Risk Management C: Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk 
managementRisk Management 17
TCFD Metrics and Targets A - Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with strategy and risk management processesDRM Environmental 39
TCFD Metrics and Targets A - Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with strategy and risk management processesMPCT.UN Environmental 54
TCFD Metrics and Targets B - Disclose scope 1,2 and if appropriate, 3 GHG 
emissions and related risksMPCT.UN Environmental 54
TCFD Metrics and Targets C - Describe targets used to manage climate-related risks 
and opportunities and performance against targetsMPCT.UN Environmental 54
TCFD Metrics and Targets A - Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with strategy and risk management processesD.UN Environmental 69
TCFD Metrics and Targets B - Disclose scope 1,2 and if appropriate, 3 GHG 
emissions and related risksD.UN Environmental 69
TCFD Metrics and Targets C - Describe targets used to manage climate-related risks 
and opportunities and performance against targetsD.UN Environmental 69
TCFD Metrics and Targets A - Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with strategy and risk management processesDIR.UN Environmental 85
105Forward Looking Information
Non-IFRS M easures
Dream’s consolidated financial statements are  prepared  in accordance  with  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards (“IFRS”).  In this Sustainability  Report, as a 
complement to results provided in accordance with IFRS, Dream discloses and discusses certain non-IFRS financial measures, including: assets under management, 
unencumbered assets, and available liquidity, as well as other measures discussed elsewhere in this Sustainability Report. These non-IFRS measures are not defined by 
IFRS, do not have a standardized meaning and may not be comparable with similar measures presented by other issuers. Dream has presented such non-IFRS measures 
as Management believes they are relevant measures of our underlying operating performance and debt management. Non-IFRS measures should not be considered as 
alternatives to comparable metrics determined in accordance with IFRS as indicators of Dream’s performance, liquidity, cash flow and profitability. For a full description 
of these measures and, where applicable, a reconciliation to the most directly comparable measure calculated in accordance with IFRS, please refer to the “Non-IFRS 
Measures” section in Dream Unlimited’s MD&A for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021, “Non-IFRS Measures and Other Disclosures” section in Dream 
Impact’s MD&A for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021, “Non-GAAP Measures” section in Dream Office’s MD&A for the three and nine months ended 
September 30, 2021, and “Non-GAAP Measures and Other Disclosures” section in Dream Industrial’s MD&A for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021.
Forward-Looking I nformation
Certain information in this Sustainability Report may constitute  “forward-looking  information” within  the meaning  of applicable  securities legislation.  Such  statements 
include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to certain objectives of Dream Unlimited, Dream Office, Dream Industrial and Dream Impact (collectively, “Dream” 
or the “Dream Entities”) and strategies to achieve such objectives; statements relating to the sustainability goals of each of the Dream Entities, including their target to 
achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2035 and continuing to publish their annual sustainability report and other publications in respect of sustainability matters; 
the various degrees involvement of the Dream Entities with initiatives related to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters, including the United Nations’ PRI 
Reporting and Assessment Framework, the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, the Impact Management Project, the Global Impact Investing Network, the 
Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative, and the Operating Principles for Impact Management; expectations regarding portfolio occupancy, units under development, and the 
development pipeline of the Dream Entities; and statements relating to ESG initiatives, metrics and targets for each of the Dream Entities. Such statements also include, 
(i) with respect to Dream Unlimited, benchmarking energy use at all facilities, reducing energy and water consumption, and identifying opportunities for employees in all 
Dream Entities to contribute to sustainability; its intention to conduct regular tenant surveys and track and report responses; increasing its use of green and impact leases, 
linking ESG performance to executive goals and compensation, and enhancing the impact framework of Dream Impact; achieving carbon neutrality for Arapahoe Basin 
by 2025; increasing its focus on impact investing; and implementing its social procurement program; (ii) with respect to Dream Impact, the continuous enhancement of its  
impact management system; the expansion of its green leases program into impact leases, which are expected to be implemented in 2022; the implementation of its social 
procurement strategy, with progress reports to begin in 2022; its goal of achieving certain 2025 environmental targets (including 10% total reduction of energy consumption, 
10% total reduction of emissions and 10% total reduction in water consumption); expectations regarding the implementation of the ZCU District Energy System at Zibi and its 
generation of zero carbon heating and cooling, as well as it becoming the first thermal system in North America to use post-industrial energy recovery in a master-planned 
community; expectations regarding the development, sustainability and affordability of West Don Lands; and Dream Impact’s plan to continue implementing tenant educa -
tion measures regarding energy conservation; (iii) with respect to Dream Office, its focus on tracking and measuring progress for green lease adoption; its goal of achieving 
certain 2025 environmental targets (including 10% total reduction of energy consumption, 10% total reduction of emissions and 10% total reduction in water consumption; 
achieving green building certifications for 100% of its portfolio); its intention to improve its GRESB score through certain measures; its goal of reducing energy use, water 
use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including by implementing enhanced technology, monitoring, measurement and verification of data solutions; its expectation to 
continue conducting and disclosing results of tenant satisfaction surveys, and enhance Dream Office’s Tenant Sustainability Handbook; and its intention to review outputs 
from its 2021 physical climate change analysis and develop plans to implement mitigation measures within its portfolio; (iv) with respect to Dream Industrial, its intention to 
increase the environmental efficiency of its portfolio through operating initiatives, tenant engagement, and by improving data collection and analytical capabilities; its plan 
of further incorporating sustainability into development processes, including green building certifications, and to implement sustainable upgrades and retrofits in properties, 
including lighting and roofing retrofits and EV charging stations; its intention to implement sustainability policies and its plans to further pursue sustainable financing options, 
including green bonds, and investments in clean power; its intention to conduct a diagnostic and opportunity assessment to evaluate readiness to participate in the GRESB 
Real Estate Assessment; and its goal of developing a plan to increase property resilience to flooding and water damage, including ensuring that emergency management 
and business continuity procedures are in place. Forward-looking information generally can be identified by words such as “outlook”, “objective”, “may”, “will”, “would”, “ex-
pect”, “intend”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “should”, “could”, “likely”, “seek”, “strive”, “plan”, “target”, “project”, “forecast”, “budget” or “continue” or similar expressions 
suggesting future outcomes or events. Forward-looking information is based on a number of assumptions and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of 
which are beyond the Dream Entities’ respective control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those disclosed in or implied by such forward-looking 
information. The assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect, include, but are not limited to, assumptions with respect to each of our markets, including that the general 
economy remains stable; the gradual recovery and growth of the general economy continues over the remainder of 2021 and into 2022; that no unforeseen changes in the 
legislative and operating framework for our business will occur; that we will meet our future objectives, priorities and growth targets; that we receive the licenses, permits or 
approvals necessary in connection with our projects; that we will have access to adequate capital to fund our future projects, plans and any potential acquisitions; that we 
are able to identify high quality investment opportunities and find suitable partners with which to enter into joint ventures or partnerships; that we do not incur any material 
environmental liabilities; that interest rates remain stable; there will not be a material change in foreign exchange rates; conditions within the real estate market remain 
consistent; and competition for and availability of acquisitions remains consistent with the current climate.
Although the forward-looking statements contained in this Sustainability Report are based on what the Dream Entities believe are reasonable assumptions, there can be 
no assurance that actual results will be consistent with these forward-looking statements. Factors or risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
set forth in the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, the risk of adverse global market, economic and political conditions and health 
crises; risks inherent in the real estate industry; risks relating to investment in development projects; impact investing strategy risk; risks relating to geographic concentra-
tion; risks inherent in investments in real estate, mortgages and other loans and development and investment holdings; credit risk and counterparty risk; competition risks; 
environmental and climate change risks; risks relating to access to capital; interest rate risk; the risk of changes in governmental laws and regulations; tax risks; foreign 
exchange risk; acquisitions risk; and leasing risks.
All forwar d-looking information in this Sustainability Report speaks as of December, 2021. The Dream Entities do not undertake to update any obligation to update any 
such forward-looking information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Additional information about 
these assumptions and risks and uncertainties is contained in the Dream group of companies’ filings with securities regulators, including their latest annual information 
forms and MD&As. These filings are also available at Dream Unlimited’s, Dream Office’s, Dream Industrial’s and Dream Impact Trust’s websites at www.dream.ca, www. 
dreamofficereit.ca, www.dreamindustrialreit.ca, and www.dreamimpacttrust.ca 
106