Building Better 
Communities
2019 Sustainability Report2 3
Table of Contents
Dream Unlimited Corp.
Overview 52
Key Accomplishments 54
Our Approach 55
Environmental 56
Social 62
Governance 66
Forward-looking Plans 67
Dream Impact Trust
Overview 68
Key Accomplishments 70
Our Approach 72
Environmental 74
Social 78
Governance 84
Forward-looking Plans 85Dream Office REIT 
Overview 86
Key Accomplishments 88
Our Approach 90
Scorecard 92
Environmental 93
Social 96
Governance 102
Forward-looking Plans 103
Dream Industrial REIT 
Overview 104
Key Accomplishments 106
Our Approach 108
Environmental 110
Social 116
Governance 121
Forward-looking Plans 122
Standards References: GRI, SASB, TCFD 124Dream Group of Companies
Introduction
About this report 4
Interview with Leadership Team 6
Dream Sustainability Highlights 8
Dream Overview 10
Sustainability Journey 12
Our values and Strategy 14
Stakeholder Engagement 16
Governance & Risk 18
Board Composition 20
Risk Management 22
Business Ethics 25Social 26
Employee Engagement & Development 28
Diversity Inclusion & Advancement 32
Health & Safety 34
COVID-19 Response Case Study 36
Community Investments & Partnerships 38
Featured Zibi Interview 42
Volunteering &  Giving 44
Innovation & Property Technology 46
Local Spend & Taxes 50Our Report
This annual sustainability report is divided into sections 
encompassing Dream’s entities. The Introduction , Governance 
& Risk and Social  sections focus on the shared governance and 
social factors for the Dream group of companies, collectively 
referred to as " Dream ."  The Dream group of companies 
includes:
 — Dream Unlimited Corp. (TSX: DRM)  
("DRM") or ("Dream Unlimited")
 — Dream Impact Trust (TSX: MPCT.UN)  
("MPCT.UN") or ("Dream Impact")
 — Dream Office REIT (TSX:D.UN)  
("D.UN") or ("Dream Office")
 — Dream Industrial REIT (TSX:DIR.UN)  
("DIR.UN") or Dream Industrial")
The remainder of this report focuses on the environmental, 
social and governance performance and practices of each 
public entity. Each entity has specific investment objectives 
and a unique underlying business which drives the factors we 
report on.
Over time, we intend to increase our disclosure of ESG performance metrics. —Dream Office REIT
As a landlord of Canadian office properties, Dream 
Office REIT's key focus has been on reducing resource 
consumption and improving the efficiency of its buildings.  
 —Dream Industrial REIT
As a landlord of industrial properties across North America 
and Europe, Dream Industrial REIT has been focused on 
increasing the environmental efficiency of its portfolio, 
through operating initiatives, and tenant engagement.
 —Dream Unlimited Corp. & Dream Impact Trust 
As companies more focused on development, DRM 
and MPCT.UN are focused on developing best in class 
communities that meet or exceed green building 
standards.  In addition they have focused on several 
social factors in their development communities with a 
key focus on affordable and inclusive housing.4 5
Contact
For any questions regarding this report, please contact:
Kim Lefever
Director of Investor Relations  
klefever@dream.ca  ↗.
Additional Information
For more information about Dream and our activities, please 
refer to our annual reports and our websites: 
Dream Unlimited Corp.
Website  ↗   2019 Annual Report ↗
Dream Impact Trust
Website  ↗   2019 Annual Report ↗
Dream Office REIT
Website  ↗   2019 Annual Report ↗
Dream Industrial REIT
Website  ↗   2019 Annual Report ↗Introduction
About This Report
Reporting Standards
This report has been prepared with references to the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. It also includes indicators 
from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) real 
estate sub-sector and addresses the recommendations of the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
These Standards are referenced in the reference tables starting 
on page 124  →.
Reporting Boundaries
All information and performance data contained in this report 
reflects the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019 unless 
otherwise stated. In some places we may highlight a 2020 
initiative and will provide more detailed information on these 
initiatives in our upcoming 2020 report, to be released in 2021. 
Dream published its first Sustainability Report in 2015, and has 
subsequently  disclosed sustainability information in the annual 
reports of its public entities since 2017.  
The content of this report was defined through engagement 
with Dream’s stakeholders, as well as by specific commercial 
real estate sustainability standards and Dream’s sustainability 
programs and initiatives. This report has been approved by the 
Chief Responsible Officer as well as the Chief Executive Officers 
and Chief Financial Officers of each entity.
This annual sustainability report is divided into sections 
encompassing Dream’s entities. The following sections reflect 
the Dream group of companies: Dream Overview, Sustainability 
Journey, Our Values, Our Sustainability Strategy,  Stakeholder 
Engagement, Governance & Risk and Social.The remaining sections of the report reflect entity-specific 
practices and performance. The intended audiences of this 
report include:  tenants and residents, investors, research 
analysts, communities, employees, our partners as well as 
municipalities and governments in locations where Dream 
operates.
On October 26, 2020, Dream Hard Asset Alternatives Trust 
changed its name to Dream Impact Trust; narrowing its focus 
to investments that generate both strong financial returns 
and create positive social and environmental change in our 
communities.  
Dream Unlimited Corp.
TSX: DRM
Dream Impact Trust
TSX: MPCT.UN
Dream Office REIT
TSX: D.UN
Dream Industrial REIT
TSX: DIR.UNThe Dream group of companies:6 7
Introduction
Interview With Our Leadership Team
What is your vision for sustainability at Dream?
Michael:  Our goal is and always has been to do great work. We believe our presence 
should improve the places where we invest, develop and operate to leave them better 
than we found them. We constantly ask ourselves “how do we make our communities 
more desirable?” Sustainability helps the people who live and work in our communities 
lead better lives. Sustainability creates a superior product for the customer.
Jane:  Since the beginning, Dream has done business in a way that is respectful of 
people and the environment while generating high returns. Building on our foundation, 
our vision is to do better every year.
Which sustainability trends are influencing Dream’s approach? 
Michael: The COVID-19 pandemic has had profound impacts on our people and 
communities and in many ways exacerbated existing systemic issues, like socio-
economic inequality. We are paying close attention to governmental priorities for a 
green and equitable, post-pandemic recovery. 
Jane: Given our track record, we are ideal partners to achieve these goals and they will 
require that we accelerate and scale our approach to impact investing. Our Indigenous 
hub project in Toronto’s Canary District and our Zibi development – both of which are 
featured in this report – are strong examples of how we use our core business to address 
broader social and environmental issues across Canada. 
Michael:  Another trend we’ve observed is large asset managers committing to 
responsible investment practices. There are now clear expectations to demonstrate 
positive impact by measuring and reporting transparently on how sustainability is 
embedded in the business and how it is driving better outcomes. At Dream, we have 
taken steps to make us a leader in translating responsible investment into financial, 
social and environmental results. 
How does sustainability drive value for Dream’s 
entities and your stakeholders?
Jane: As you attract more responsible investment capital, we 
get to work on some really interesting, meaningful projects. Our 
people are really excited about these opportunities and prefer 
to put their time into a company where purpose meets profit.
Jamie: Our parks and green spaces are good examples of how 
sustainability drives value for multiple stakeholders. We have 
put a lot of thought and care into community amenities because 
they improve people’s lives and add value to the surrounding 
properties. When our customers and tenants respond well, our 
employees are motivated to continuously improve as an integral 
part of our development process. 
Michael:  On the supplier side, we created a property technology 
business called Alate Partners  ↗ to invest in early stage 
technology companies that are re-imagining how buildings are 
designed, built and managed.  
What sustainability accomplishments are you most 
proud of? 
Michael:  I’m proud of how Dream has been a leader through the 
COVID-19 pandemic. When the pandemic struck, we immediately 
made a commitment to our employees that no one would be laid 
off and provided them with immediate financial support to help 
ease stress. 
Jane:  Other highlights for me included installing a district 
thermal energy system at Zibi, launching our first condo sale 
at our award-winning Brightwater development, our Sussex 
Centre green loan, beginning the first phase of construction at 
our West Don Lands project and making progress on our LEED 
Gold Indigenous Hub at our Canary District development.   
Have you experienced any sustainability-related 
challenges at Dream?
Michael: As with doing anything new or innovative, there’s 
inertia. We ask our people and our partners to go above and 
beyond and do their jobs thoughtfully and sensitively. This 
can sometimes be a big ask; but going the extra mile to create 
positive impact is something we are proud of. What are you most excited about for sustainability at 
Dream?
Michael: We recently announced that Dream Hard Asset 
Alternatives Trust will be renamed Dream Impact Trust and narrow 
its focus on investments that generate both strong financial 
returns and provide positive social and environmental impacts in 
our communities. These investments include affordable housing, 
energy efficient and reduced carbon footprint buildings, 
inclusive communities which focus on creating opportunities 
for under-supported groups and creating exceptional public 
spaces open for all. 
Jamie: We are very excited to be offering Canada’s first publicly 
traded impact vehicle and look forward to sharing our progress 
on this major milestone in Dream’s sustainability journey.We sat down with Michael Cooper,  Dream Unlimited Corp.’s Chief 
Responsible Officer, Jane Gavan, Dream Unlimited Corp.’s President 
of Asset Management and Jamie Cooper, Dream Unlimited Corp.’s 
Director, Impact Investments, to discuss Dream’s sustainability 
strategy, achievements and outlook. A key theme that emerged 
is that Dream has embraced sustainability and impact investing 
throughout its history. 
Michael Cooper
CRO, Dream Unlimited Corp.
CEO, Dream Office REIT
Portfolio Manager, Dream Impact Trust
Jane Gavan
President, Asset Management, 
Dream Unlimited Corp. 
President, Dream Equity Partners
Jamie Cooper
Director, Impact Investments
Dream Unlimited Corp.Historical Quote:
We have always understood the 
importance of relationships.
“We View our Relationships as Assets:  Over the last 
five years we have developed many new and valuable 
relationships. We have 2,200 tenants, 370 motivated 
and capable employees, and thousands of shareholders 
and suppliers. We endeavour to add as much value to the 
Company as we can from each of these associations and 
turn each contact we make into a productive relationship. 
We believe these connections create additional 
opportunities, not only for Dundee Realty, but for all of 
our stakeholders.”
Dundee Realty Corp. 
2000 Annual Report
Dundee became Dream in 2013.Shortly after this interview, DRM became 
a Signatory to the Operating Principles for 
Impact Management and a member of the 
Global Impact Investing Network.8 9
Introduction
Dream Sustainability Highlights
Forward-lookingThroughout 2019 our entities continued to make progress on their sustainability initiatives.  The highlights 
below showcase some of the Dream entities' ESG accomplishments as well as select future endeavours.
Formalize and update ESG policies across our entities
Identify short comings and areas for improvement 
for all entities, embracing transparency and 
accountability
Continue to address diversity, inclusion and 
advancement within our organization
Improve our strategies for stakeholder engagement
Conduct an annual employee engagement survey 
As a signatory to the Operating Principles for Impact 
Management and member of the Global Impact 
Investing Network, DRM will increase its focus on 
impact investing  across all entities
Progress towards carbon neutrality on Arapahoe Basin  
(DRM) and Zibi (DRM and MPCT.UN) 
MPCT.UN will formalize its framework for impact 
reporting in 2021
MPCT.UN will report on its impact progress through 
release of first impact report
Dream Office will participate in the Global Real 
Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) Real Estate 
Assessment in 2021
Dream Office will attain green building certifications 
for 100% of its portfolio by 2025
Dream Industrial will be focusing on improving utility 
data collection and partnering with tenants on 
sustainability initiatives
Dream Industrial will pursue investments in renewable 
energyDRM's Distillery District achieved BOMA Best Certification  
for improving the sustainability of heritage buildings
Source remediation completed at DRM and MPCT.UN's 
Brightwater development, a former oil refinery
Construction progressed on DRM and MPCT.UN's Zibi, 
development, Canada's most sustainable community
D.UN met or exceeded the environmental targets they set 
from 2014 - 2018 and have reset new, more challenging 
targets for 2019-2024
438 University upgraded to LEED Operations and 
Maintenance v4.1 Platinum Certification (D.UN)
100% of Canadian properties over 100,000 square feet are 
BOMA BEST ↗ certified (D.UN) 
DIR.UN initiated a climate risk assessment of the portfolio 
and concluded that none of their properties have 50 year 
flood exposure risk, and 0.2% of the portfolio has 100 year 
flood risk exposure
DIR.UN saved over 15 million litres of water through the use 
of climate-controlled irrigation in CalgaryEnvironmental
50% of DRM Board members are female
50% of MPCT.UN Board members are female  
(based on Trust and GP Boards)
Chair of DRM board is member of Dream's Diversity, 
Inclusion and Advancement (DIA) CommitteeGovernanceSocial
31% of executives across the Dream entities are women
$500,000 paid to employees for tuition and professional 
development fees 
$700,000 donated to charities
Commenced construction on DRM and MPCT.UN's West Don 
Lands purpose built rental development with affordable 
housingWomen Lead Here Honouree
Selected as an honouree of the Globe and Mail’s 
Report on Business Women Lead Here program, 
a new initiative that benchmarks how the largest 
publicly traded companies in Canada are 
performing on executive gender paritySustainability is an ongoing commitment, driving us 
to improve and challenge ourselves every year. Going 
forward we plan to focus on several initiatives to improve 
our ESG reporting and align with best practices.  
438 University Avenue
Toronto, ON
Brightwater 
Mississauga, ON
West Don Lands 
Toronto, ON10 11
Dream is an asset manager, owner and developer of real estate. Founded in 1994 with a 
vision to revolutionize the way people live and work, Dream is one of Canada’s leading 
real estate companies, with over $8 billion in assets amongst its four publicly listed entities:
$8 billion
in assets 
11.9 million
sq. ft. of commercial/retail Gross 
Leasable Area (GLA) across the 
Dream group portfolio26.6 million
sq. ft. of industrial GLA 
in DIR.UN14,200
residential units in DRM & MPCT.UNIntroduction
Dream Overview
*  As at September 30, 2020.Headquartered in Toronto, Canada, Dream is responsible 
for some of Canada’s most iconic and transformational 
projects. We always invest with purpose, embracing 
creativity, passion and innovation to deliver high returns, 
while doing good for the communities and the world 
around us.
We proudly participate as members of several 
industry associations including:
Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) of 
Canada
RealPAC
International Council of Shopping Centres (ICSC)
Building Industry and Land Development Association 
(BILD)
Commercial Real Estate Association (NAIOP)
Local Business Improvement Associations 
Urban Land Institute (ULI) board member (Jason Lester, 
Vice Chair, Development, Dream)
Dream Office is also a corporate member of the 
Canadian Green Building Council (CaGBC)Across the Dream group of companies we have:*
At Dream our employees are our most valuable asset and consist of the following: 494 
total employees
Number of Employees(1)(2)Male Female Total
Permanent(3)251 218 469
Contract 11 13 24
Full-time(4)259 228 487
Part-time 3 3 6
Includes only employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, Dream Industrial Management Corp. and Dream Office Management Corp. 
Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties, employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, 
parental leave) or interns.
Numbers represented as total headcount, not full-time equivalent.
Includes permanent part-time employees.
Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week.(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)5.1 million
sq. ft. of office GLA 
in D.UN
Brightwater 
Port Credit, ON
2020 winner for the prestigious BILD Pinnacle Award for Best New Community – Planned / Under Development.45%
of managers are female
31%
of executives are female12 13
Introduction
Sustainability Journey
"For them to put their necks out and put money into heritage before 
building out the condos is unheard of. They did the right thing first. It 
was incredibly creative and visionary, but also practical – they got 
things done."
Pam McConnell
City Councillor for Ward 28, Toronto Centre-Rosedale,
June 23, 2007
“We recognize the role we must play with respect to environmental 
stewardship and sound environmental practices and are working 
to develop a corporate responsibility and sustainability reporting 
framework that will effectively convey our current practices, as well as 
our goals and objectives and our progress towards their achievement.”
Michael Cooper
Dundee REIT Annual Report,
December 31, 2009“We believe in better communities. We build 
communities to live in from the ground up—
developing land, constructing homes, providing 
retail centres and driving renewable power 
projects. We also build communities to work in, 
bringing office and industrial spaces to life. We 
invest in and manage properties, enriching them 
for the people who work there and the greater 
community.”
“We aim to make stakeholders’ lives better—
customers, colleagues, shareholders and the 
community. We aim to outperform our competition 
by working smart, being innovative, treating 
people well, and never giving up.”
Our Purpose
Dream Unlimited Corp. Annual Report,
December 31, 2013
2004
Dream formed a partnership to invest, 
improve and revitalize Toronto’s Distillery 
District community, transforming 40 
heritage buildings into a landmark 
destination and creating a cultural anchor 
in the city’s East end. 
2007
Launched a $350M fund exclusively 
focused on renewable energy2011
DRM was selected to develop the LEED 
Gold certified Pan/Parapan AM Athletes 
Village, inclusive of affordable and student 
housing. The project won numerous awards 
including the 2014 Building Industry and 
Land Development Association (BILD) 
Community of the Year
D.UN began measuring greenhouse gas 
emissions, energy and water consumption
D.UN set four-year targets for energy and 
water consumption, waste diversion and 
building certifications2020
Dream Hard Asset Alternatives Trust (DRA.
UN) changes name to Dream Impact Trust 
(MPCT.UN), focusing on impact investing 
MPCT.UN and D.UN finance Sussex  
Centre through green loan facility
DRM became a signatory to the Operating 
Principles for Impact Management and 
a member of the Global Impact Investing 
Network2013
DRM became the first TSX-listed company 
to have a female majority Board2019
DRM and MPCT.UN established a 
partnership with Anishinábe Health Toronto 
to develop Canary Block 10, the centre of 
an Indigenous hub celebrating culture and 
serving Toronto’s Indigenous community2018
DRM and MPCT.UN were selected to deliver 
the West Don Lands project, building 600+ 
affordable housing units in a mixed-income 
community
D.UN achieved green certifications for 
100% of its sites above 100,000 sq. ft.
D.UN installed 80 Tesla charging stations 
across its portfolio
D.UN and DRM formed Alate Partners to 
invest in innovative real estate solutions
D.UN exceeded 10% energy consumption 
reduction target from 2014-2018 with a 
total of 13.4% reduced across the portfolio
D.UN exceeded 10% water consumption 
reduction target from 2014-2018 with a 
total of 15.1% reduced across the portfolio2014
DRM invested in Zibi to create Canada’s 
most sustainable master-planned 
community
DIR.UN began its rooftop solar program
Dream established a Sustainability 
Executive Committee to oversee and 
embed sustainability in key business areas 
including property operations, employee 
engagement and communications
Dream formalized diversity policies for 
each entity
D.UN implemented Operations Best 
Practices Training
D.UN implemented mandatory waste audits 
across Dream Office REIT, and redesigned 
recycling processes2015
Dream published its first Sustainability 
Report
Dream Established cross-company 
sustainability working groups to promote, 
develop and track performance
2017
DRM completed its transformation of the 
Broadview Hotel, creating a beautiful arts 
and culture destination for the vibrant 
Riverside district community“We take a responsibility in how we deal with 
making communities and place-making seriously. 
And I think that whether it’s what we build or how 
we participate in the communities, we do make 
them better.
Michael Cooper
2018 Dream Unlimited Corp Annual General Meeting“Becoming a One Planet Community is more than receiving a stamp 
of approval. It’s a long-term commitment to bring our ambitious plan 
to life and to continue to work diligently to build a better community 
through sustainability.”
Jason Lester
Senior VP of Urban Development at Dream,
May 21, 2015
“The Dream group of real estate companies had the highest proportion 
of female board members and executives last year, according to 
detailed data released Thursday by Canadian securities regulators. 
Five Dream-related Ontario businesses scored highly with Dream 
Unlimited Corp. (TSX:DRM) boasting 63 per cent women on its board, 
while 100 per cent of management on Dream Global Real Estate 
Investment Trust (TSX:DRG) were women.”
CTV News
November 30, 2017“We believe impact investing is ingrained in 
Dream’s long-standing history as a developer and 
have seen the phenomenal effects we can make 
on our communities. With Dream Impact Trust’s 
portfolio, we have the opportunity to build best-
in-class assets and foster long-standing positive 
change for our stakeholders.
Michael Cooper
Dream Impact Trust Q3 Results Press Release,
November 2, 2020Dream has a proven track record of building better communities. We have generated strong 
financial returns by creating unique, inclusive assets which have lasting positive impacts on the 
lives of our residents, customers and stakeholders.Our timeline, combined with the statements we have made, is the best affirmation of our business 
strategy and commitment to making a positive impact that continues to drive us to this day.14 15
Introduction
Our ESG Strategy
Building better communities since our inceptionIntroduction
Our Values
For over two decades, we have been working to make our communities better while maximizing 
returns for our investors. We aim to continue this while increasing our focus on impact investing 
and aligning ourselves with the applicable standards. Our objectives across our entities are to: 
Governance 
We conduct ourselves to a high 
ethical standard, ensuring integrity, 
independence and transparency  in 
all aspects of our businesses.Social
We care for our people, tenants, 
partners and communities by 
embracing a diverse and inclusive 
workplace, promoting leading 
health and safety practices and 
building inclusive, attainable and 
sustainable communities.  Environment
We strive to continuously improve 
the resource efficiency of our 
operations, lower any undesired 
impacts associated with our 
activities and contribute positively 
to the transition to a low carbon 
economy. Attract exceptional business, tenants and 
residents through developing and managing 
best-in-class properties and communities that 
are sustainable, inclusive and accessible to all 
stakeholders.
Make positive social and environmental 
impacts in our communities where we work, 
operate and live through strategic investments 
in resource efficiency, attainable housing and 
developing inclusive and diverse communities.
Bring passion, creativity and innovation to 
every project and investment.Work with partners and stakeholders including 
governments, Indigenous communities , 
business partners and local residents 
to maximize the value of our assets and 
developments .
Foster a culture of diversity, inclusivity and 
fair treatment within our organization, at our 
properties and in our communities  with our 
stakeholders.Our Values
Our values provide the foundation 
for our corporate culture and our 
investment philosophy – acting as a 
strong platform on which to build 
sustainability into Dream’s culture.
Courageous ideas 
Meaningful relationships 
Fierce diligence 
Social responsibility
We invest with purpose: 
Our profitable and impactful investment strategy is increasingly being recognized by governments and the investing 
community. Real estate can play a significant role in addressing inequality and climate change. We believe that opportunities 
for double-bottom line  investments, which focus on profit and purpose , will become increasingly available for organizations like 
ours that have demonstrated the commitment and experience to execute and achieve the highest impact for all stakeholders. 
By sharpening our focus on these opportunities, we believe that we can continue to build a financially successful business 
that contributes positively to social and environmental outcomes.Sustainability is ingrained in how we run our business internally and externally. It is integral 
to Dream’s purpose to Build Better Communities and aligns with our values. Building Better 
Communities guides how we think, live and work.
Our Approach
Canary District, Block 10, Indigenous Hub 
Toronto, ON16 17
Dream fosters strong, long-term relationships and maintains an open and ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. Doing so creates 
satisfied tenants, happy employees, confident investors and enthusiastic partners. We use multiple engagement methods to continuously 
improve how we work together and create shared value in the communities where we operate. We will build on the feedback received 
from our stakeholders and use it to improve our business. Introduction
Stakeholder Engagement
Stakeholder Group Topics engaged on Engagement methods What we heard How we are responding
Employees
Frequency:  
ContinuousCOVID-19 response
Health, safety and 
wellness initiatives
Lunch and Learns
Office services
People & Culture 
programs 
Social Committee  
activities
Diversity and inclusionAnnual performance 
reviews
Semi-annual feedback 
check-ins
Internal 
communications 
(intranet, emails)
One-on-one meetings
Social Media (LinkedIn, 
Glassdoor)
Touch-points and exit 
interviews
Town halls
Guest speakers
Diversity surveyEmployees feel 
supported
Employees report that 
Dream is an inclusive 
place to work
Dream employees feel 
that health and safety 
has been implemented 
well through the 
COVID-19 pandemic
Employees express that 
there is an openness to 
new ideas
Employees appreciate 
the  fast-paced 
work culture and 
environment at DreamInitiated discussions 
with employees and 
managers on topics of 
engagement
Refined our 
Whistleblower Policy 
Following up on 
Diversity survey 
recommendations 
Open lines of 
communication
Tenants
Frequency:  
ContinuousSustainability 
campaigns and events 
Wellness promotions  
COVID-19Emails/
communications 
Engagement surveys
Media releases
Monthly promotions 
One-on-one meetings 
between leasing and 
client services 
Tenant experience 
emails
Website  
Quarterly newslettersTenants report they 
are appreciative of 
our efforts to promote 
wellness and that we 
offer new programs 
and communication 
platforms  
Tenants are pleased 
with receiving regular 
COVID-19 updates and 
new safety protocols Used feedback 
from our tenant 
satisfaction survey to 
identify improvement 
opportunities for 
property teams and 
develop action plans to 
implement new tenant 
engagement initiativesStakeholder Group Topics engaged on Engagement methods What we heard How we are responding
Investors and Analysts
Frequency:  
ContinuousSustainability strategy 
and disclosureInvestor relations 
activities including: 
Investor Days
Investor presentations
Meetings
Annual General 
Meeting
External conferences
Press releases
Quarterly and annual 
reports
Conference calls
WebsiteInvestors are 
interested in Dream’s 
approach to managing 
sustainability, climate 
risk disclosure and 
participation in the 
Global Real Estate 
Sustainability 
Benchmark (GRESB)  
real estate assessmentEnhanced 
sustainability 
governance
Sustainability 
performance targets 
Assessed portfolio 
flood risk
Municipal government 
partners and local 
communities
Frequency:  
Ad hocHousing affordability
Indigenous 
engagement
Sustainability 
practicesCommunity meetings
Emails and other 
communications
Existing sustainability 
materials
Focus groups
Market round-table 
discussions
Media releases
Websites (project 
specific and corporate)
Quarterly and annual 
reports
Relationship buildingDesign-related 
feedback
Importance of the 
public realm, parks, 
public spaces and 
amenities Enhanced 
communication, 
including community 
feedback, ongoing 
dialogue, market 
round-table discussions 
and meetings
Integrated design-
related changes18 19
Governance & Risk 
Dream is committed to sound and effective corporate governance. 
Our goal is to not only meet the requirements established by 
regulators, but also to uphold the spirit of excellent corporate 
governance. 
Jane Gavan 
President Asset Management, Dream Unlimited Corp. 
Executive Chair, Dream Equity Partners20 21
Our governance approach includes nominating diverse, independent and experienced Board members 
to each of our public entities, as well as ensuring transparency in all aspects of our business. Read more 
about our corporate governance practices in the Management Information Circulars for each entity 
and on our corporate websites.Governance & Risk
Board Composition
We continue to embed sustainability  
in our Board mandates. We are also 
working to integrate sustainability in 
our strategy, enterprise management 
systems, operations and most 
importantly, culture. 
Refer to each entity chapter for more information about our progress.Each Dream Board is comprised of highly experienced, dedicated and knowledgeable professionals who each 
have expertise in key areas of Dream’s businesses. 
Dream Head Office: 30 Adelaide St. E
Toronto, ON
Redeveloped by Dream in 2000 and winner of 2001 NAIOP Office Project of the Year.
75%75+25Dream Unlimited Corp.
DRM
Learn more  ↗ 50+50
50%
As at November 13, 2020
Includes members of both the GP and Trust Boards.67%**67+33Dream Impact Trust*
MPCT.UN
Learn more  ↗ 50+50
50%**
71%71+29Dream Office REIT
D.UN
Learn more  ↗ 43+57
43%
75%75+25Dream Industrial REIT
DIR.UN
Learn more  ↗ 25+75
25%Independent* Female*
*
**22 23
Governance & Risk
Risk Management
Enterprise risk management (ERM) at Dream is integrated with our risk management frameworks and is managed by  our risk management 
group. ERM is overseen by the Governance & Nominating Committee of the DRM board. The Director of Risk and Insurance reports 
annually to the  Board committees at each entity: the Governance & Nominating Committee at DRM, the Governance, Compensation 
& Environmental Committee at MPCT.UN, the Compensation, Health & Environmental Committee at D.UN and the Governance, 
Compensation & Environmental Committee at DIR.UN. 
ERM at Dream is executed through procedures aimed at identifying, analyzing, responding to, managing and reporting on our exposure 
to risks. Through this process, risks are assessed based on their anticipated frequency, severity and likelihood, then either transferred, 
mitigated, or managed accordingly. 
Risk management for acquisitions and developments are overseen by the Chief Operating Officers, Chief Financial Officers and 
Chief Executive Officers at both D.UN and DIR.UN.  For DRM and MPCT.UN it is overseen by the President of Asset Management and 
Chief Responsible Officer of DRM together with the Chief Financial Officers. For each entity, acquisitions and developments involve 
collaboration with numerous teams, including Technical Services. Acquisition and development risk management activities include 
evaluating opportunities using both our Impact Investment Criteria Checklist to assess environmental, social and governance risks 
and opportunities, as well as our Due Diligence Checklist involving a more comprehensive set of risks tailored for each opportunity. In 
acquisitions, Due Diligence Checklists involve assessments by the Technical Services team of building systems to determine the business 
case and payback associated with capital improvements required to enhance resource efficiency and add value to the investment.
For more information please refer to our annual reports:Energy and Water Management Risks
Dream is focused on managing and operating our 
buildings as efficiently as possible to mitigate risks 
associated with escalating utility costs, shifting tenant 
preferences and regulations. We manage energy and 
water risks by conducting energy and water audits and 
implementing applicable efficiency measures to reduce 
our consumption.
Climate Change Risks
Climate change is an increasingly important risk and continues to be a focus for governments and the general public. Investors 
increasingly view climate change as a critical concern and tenants continue to demand low-carbon, resilient properties. 
Dream is exposed to the risk that our properties will be subject to government initiatives aimed at mitigating the impacts of climate 
change, such as greenhouse gas emissions reduction regulations, which could impose constraints on our operational flexibility or cause 
us to incur financial costs to comply with various reforms. Failure to adapt to climate change reform could result in fines or adversely 
affect our reputation, operations or financial performance. Furthermore, our properties may be exposed to the impact of events caused 
by climate change, such as natural disasters and increasingly frequent and severe weather conditions. Such events could interrupt our 
operations and activities, threaten our tenants, damage our properties and may potentially decrease our property values or require us 
to incur additional expenses including increasing insurance costs against natural disasters and severe weather.
Zibi 
Gatineau, QC - Ottawa, ON
Canada’s first and only One Planet Living endorsed community.25 24
We are steadfast in our commitment to maintaining the highest 
business and personal ethical standards by dealing openly 
and honestly with each other and with our directors, investors, 
tenants and suppliers. We must also be acutely aware of the 
laws and regulations that govern our conduct at work, in the 
marketplace and in our communities. 
The various policies governing business ethics and norms of 
behaviour at Dream are developed by respective entity Boards. 
Compliance with these policies is the responsibility of all 
employees. 
Each Dream entity has a Code of Conduct which is reviewed 
annually and updated every three years. The Codes are our 
statement of the values and principles that guide us in our day to-
day business activities. The keystones of our Codes are: integrity, 
respect, fairness, accountability and transparency. The Codes support our commitment to operate our businesses at the highest 
level of legal, moral and ethical standards and they provide the 
overriding principles for all of our policies and our approach to 
business. Each entity’s Code of Conduct applies to all members 
of the organization, including Directors, Trustees, Officers and 
Employees.  
These Codes have guidelines for expected behaviours and 
practices in day-to-day business activities and direct employees 
to report conflicts of interest to a manager. Conflicts of interest 
related to Directors, Trustees and Officers are disclosed in our 
Annual Information Forms, while related party transactions are 
disclosed in each entity’s financial statements.Governance & Risk
Business Ethics
Climate Change Risks Continued
Physical and transitional climate risks are part of Dream’s ERM and are currently managed through acquisition due diligence checklists, 
building performance analyses, capital improvements, environmental, health and safety inspections and environmental audits for 
standing investments and environmental health and safety inspections for new acquisitions. Our proactive approach to energy 
management provides Dream with the ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of new regulation, including compliance costs. We also 
manage our risks by transferring the exposure to an insurer through the purchase of insurance policies to cover our assets in the event 
of property damage arising  from a climate-related event. We insure our assets to their 100% true replacement cost value, including 
coverage for 24 months of their gross income. This mitigates Dream’s exposure and ensures we are reasonably protected from potential 
losses.
In 2020, Dream conducted a flood and catastrophic loss risk assessment to determine which properties in our portfolio are at risk of 
losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year floods.Governance & Risk
Risk Management
Number of At-Risk Assets from Flooding*
50-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)100-year
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)200-year 
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)
DRM 7 213,000 6 358,000 7 494,000 4 83,000
MPCT.UN** - - 1 61,000 - - - -
D.UN - - 2 88,000 - - 2 238,000
DIR.UN*** - - 2 38,295 4 241,399 6 432,059
Based on the results, we are actively exploring 
developing site-specific plans, such as water 
damage mitigation plans and emergency plans 
for industrial properties at risk of windstorms.  
Going forward our goal is to integrate standard -
ized policies and procedures to further mitigate 
against physical climate risks across our portfolio.
860 Marine Drive
Charlotte, NCAs one of Canada’s leading real estate organizations, Dream is 
committed to maintaining the highest standards as it relates 
to board governance and ethical business conduct.
*    Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA).
*    Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated in the figures in the other time categories. 
**   MPCT.UN assets managed by D.UN were included in this assessment.
***  DIR.UN assets underwent a flood assessment in 2019. 27 26
“Our people are everything. When you are 
surrounded by talented, passionate and 
innovative people you can’t help but be inspired. 
We truly believe our employees are our best 
asset and this is reflected across our culture"
Louise Sullivan
Vice President, People and CultureSocial
At Dream, our people set us apart. We take great pride in our people 
and know that investing in them creates long-term value for the 
company. 
Dan Ferens
Senior Manager, People and Culture28 29
Social
Employee Development & Engagement
We are focused on developing leaders throughout Dream by prioritizing internal hires and 
providing opportunities for personal and professional growth.
Our Approach
Employee development and engagement is managed by our People & Culture team, who serve all Dream entities. Our approach 
is guided by listening to employees to understand what makes working at Dream enjoyable and how best to improve their 
experience. We look to continuously improve our programs to make Dream an employer of choice. 
Key Accomplishments
In the past year, we undertook the following initiatives to enhance our employees’ experience:
Performance*
In 2019, Dream hired a total of 97 new full-time employees and had an overall voluntary turnover rate of 15.5%.
* Includes only employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, Dream Industrial Management Corp. and Dream Office Management Corp. Does not 
include employees at Dream recreational properties, employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns. 
Turnover rate is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2019. European and U.S. employees are not included in employee turnover rates due to 
being under separate management.Total Male FemaleAge
under
30 Age
30-50Age
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
CanadaUnited 
StatesEurope
New hires 97 50 47 44 41 12 80 16 - 1
Voluntary 
turnover rate15.5% 7% 8.5% 4.3% 9.1% 2.1% 11.6% 3.9% - -Implemented a comprehensive human resource 
information system (HRIS)
Introduced an Executive Leadership Coaching 
program and Leadership eLearning Platform
Initiated the Ethos Awards, a peer recognition program 
that gives back to charitable causes in the community 
that are important to employees
Developed Pre-Approved CPA training programs with 
CPA OntarioIntroduced a new Wellness Program 
Enhanced employee benefits to include telemedicine 
and extended mental health coverage - much needed 
during the COVID-19 pandemic
Enabled employees to choose and design their own 
health coverage plans.
Honouree of the Globe and Mail Report on Business’s 
Women Lead Here ↗ awards, recognizing executive 
gender diversity in Corporate Canada
Full-time Dream employees enjoy the following benefits:
Learning and development
$2,000 allowance for continuing 
education per employee
Reimbursement of professional 
membership or designation fees
Job-related training, seminars  
and conferences 
myDream Academy on-line  
learning portalOther
Annual incentive program
Employee referral program 
Half-day Fridays before summer 
long weekends
Employee ski trip and holiday 
parties
Volunteer work and fundraising 
activities Health and well-being
Flexible health benefit plans with custom 
coverage for all full-time employees
Employee Assistance Program 
Akira Health: telemedicine services
Inkblot therapy: virtual counselling
Best Doctors: Second opinion medical support
Life insurance
Pension program with contribution matching
Group RRSP – self funded
Paid time off for sick and personal leave
Parental leave top-up program
Historical Quote:
We have always considered our 
employees our most valuable asset.
“Our employees have rewarded us for 
the investment we’ve made in our human 
capital – placing us among the R.O.B. Best 
Companies to Work for in Canada. Employees 
of Dundee Realty realize that they are an 
integral component of our success. They have 
demonstrated confidence in our leadership team 
and believe in working together to provide a 
valuable product.”
Dundee Realty Corp. 
2002 Annual Report30 31
Forward-looking Plans
Dream is updating our benefits with a focus on wellness and preventative medicine. Our new all-
in-one health benefits platform, called League, offers employees a lifestyle spending account 
where they receive credits to spend on offerings of their choice. The platform has a variety of 
options to choose from, ranging from gym memberships, to new running shoes, to kids’ swimming 
lessons. By leveraging big data and artificial intelligence, the upgraded platform will also provide 
ongoing insights into employee wellness preferences, focusing on preventive health coverage 
and expanded mental health resources, enabling our People & Culture team to tailor the types 
of wellness resources we continue to offer.myDream 
In 2019, we implemented a new HRIS called myDream. The 
system provides employees with easier, faster access to time 
off requests, expense forms, and other administrative and 
human resource tasks. The system also provides the People 
& Culture team with additional tools and functionality, such 
as goals setting, surveying capabilities and easier access to 
payroll functions. myDream also creates a comprehensive 
employee profile which is used to better serve employees.
Dream CPA Training Program
Chartered Professional Accountants (CPA) Ontario granted 
all Dream entities the ability to train students under its 
Pre-Approved Program. Participants can complete their 
designation at Dream, providing us with access to top talent. 
Dream covers all program costs for participants. 
Wellness 
Dream supports employee health and wellness through many 
initiatives and programs to encourage healthy lifestyles. For 
example, in 2019 we started a national Wellness Program 
that involved switching to healthier alternatives for snacks,  
replacing pop and juice in our offices with flavoured water 
alternatives, providing fresh fruit in lunch rooms, and 
facilitating lunch and learn sessions on nutrition, fitness, 
and mental health. 
We also kicked off Wellness Wednesdays, each with a specific 
focus. The initiative was well-received by employees at all 
levels and we continue to provide regular seminars based 
on employee requests and surveys. Social
Employee Development & Engagement
Leading at Dream 
Leading at Dream is our new management development 
program. Launched in 2019, Leading at Dream focuses on 
leadership training and coaching for managers. Topics 
covered in the training modules include mindful leadership, 
effective communication, team performance and dynamics 
among others. We are currently offering the program virtually 
in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Ethos Awards
After a long-time Dream employee sadly passed away in 
2019, her close network of friends at Dream wanted to honour 
her lasting impact on the company. In her memory, Dream 
launched five peer-nominated annual awards that recognize 
how the recipient contributes to their community and lives 
Dream’s values. Each award recipient receives a $1,000 
donation to a charity of their choice.
Intern Program   
We are proud to support and mentor the next generation of 
difference makers. Our co-op and internship positions are 
available year-round to students enrolled in a post-secondary 
institution or trade school that requires a work placement to 
align with their program of study. This is an opportunity to gain 
exposure to the field of real estate and do meaningful work 
with a team that is innovative, fun, and always challenging 
the status quo.$500,000+ in tuition and  
professional development fees 
was reimbursed to employees  
in 2019.“Working at Dream has been one of best experiences of my career. I’ve been so 
lucky to have an incredible team that I get to work with, who inspire me to push my 
boundaries and do my best every day.”
Jéda Ketsela-Pochun
2020 Summer Intern
32 33
Social
Diversity, Inclusion & Advancement
Our goal is to be an inclusive employer that fosters a workplace where diversity is recognized as our 
strength and all employees enjoy equal opportunities to unlock their potential and grow their careers. 
The approximately 500 employees across our entities come from a variety of backgrounds and places, 
bringing valuable skills and perspectives to our team. Together, we are united by our company values and 
common purpose of Building Better Communities.  
Our Approach
Led by our Chief Responsible Officer, Michael Cooper, we are 
currently enhancing our diversity and inclusion initiatives. 
Together with input from our employees, we created a Diversity, 
Inclusion and Advancement (DIA) Committee - a 15-person group 
with representation from various levels within all entities, as well 
as the Chair of the DRM Board. The DIA Committee’s mandate is to 
learn, listen and act on best practice recommendations to enhance 
diversity and inclusion at Dream, as well as build accountability for 
advancing our practices. Signed the Black North Pledge ↗ to formally address anti-
Black systemic racism in corporate Canada and remove anti-
Black systemic barriers that negatively affect the lives of Black 
Canadians. The pledge commits Dream to specific actions 
and targets designed to end anti-Black systemic racism and 
create opportunities for those in underrepresented Black, 
Indigenous and people of colour (BIPOC) communities.Selected as an honouree of the Globe and Mail’s Report on 
Business Women Lead Here ↗ program, a new initiative that 
benchmarks how the largest publicly-traded companies in 
Canada are performing on executive gender parity.  
Conducted an employee survey to understand the pulse of 
Diversity, Inclusions and Advancement at Dream with 93% 
participation 
“Our Diversity, Inclusion and Advancement Committee is based on the four key pillars of listen, learn, act, 
and accountability. We want to improve the experience for our employees and community by elevating our 
great culture and providing exposure and opportunities in under-served and BIPOC communities. Through 
listening and learning from our employees and experts in this space, we are looking for ways to improve 
our recruitment, advancement, community and our supply chain from a diverse and inclusive lens. We are 
excited to contribute to these initiatives through actionable and sustainable improvement within Dream 
and the community.”
Colleen Reid
Director, Technology Operations & Co-chair of Diversity,  
Inclusion and Advancement CommitteeKey Accomplishments
In the past year, we made the following progress:Together , Building Better Communities
Performance  
Gender Breakdown of Dream Employees and Governance Bodies:
Female Male
Employees* 47% 53%
Managers 45% 55%
Executive Team 31% 69%
DRM -Board of Directors 50% 50%
MPCT.UN - GP & Trust Boards 50% 50%
D.UN - Board of Trustees 43% 57%
DIR.UN - Board of Trustees 25% 75%
53+47
55+45
69+31
50+50
50+50
57+43
75+25
Forward-looking Plans
The DIA Committee is creating an internal Dream pledge to recognize diversity and inclusion as core values of the company.  
We are using our employee survey results to establish a baseline understanding of our performance to help guide future 
actions. In addition,  we will conduct interactive workshops and launch a platform for employees to share their journeys with 
each other to further our  education and conversation around diversity and inclusion at Dream.*  Includes employees at all levels.34 35
Social
Health & Safety
Forward-looking Plans
We are focusing on ensuring our employees are staying safe during the COVID-19 pandemic by using personal 
protective equipment (PPE) and adhering to physical distancing guidelines. We are supporting virtual employees 
through improving collaboration and communication in remote work environments, as well as providing employees 
with support to work comfortably and productively from home. We are using technology like the Explore App to 
monitor density levels in the office and respond to changing health and safety protocols.Our Approach 
Health and Safety at Dream is collectively overseen by the V.P. of 
People & Culture and the V.P. of Property Management. All levels of 
management work in consultation and cooperation with employees, 
joint health and safety committees, contractors and visitors to ensure 
that the requirements of Dream’s Health and Safety Policy, the 
Occupational Health and Safety Act, and other applicable legislation 
are met. 
All Managers and Supervisors are responsible and accountable for 
the health and safety of the individuals and workplaces under their 
charge. They are expected to advise employees of the existence of 
potential or actual workplace hazards and ensure that employees 
work safely in accordance with the Occupational Health and Safety 
Act and its regulations, as well as all applicable Dream policies and 
procedures.
Joint health and safety committees and representatives are required 
to do regular inspections at various frequencies depending on what 
province they are located in. Our Health and Safety department 
receives a copy of each inspection and may direct concerns to 
Supervisors, schedule follow-up inspections, or investigate any 
instances of non-compliance. We provide health and safety training 
for all employees, specific to their roles and job requirements.Performance  
Health and safety metrics monitored at Dream include injury type, lost time injuries, lost days and near misses at 
our Canadian operations. The table below breaks down our lost-time injury rates and near-misses for 2019 by region 
and gender.  Key Accomplishments 
Developed Better Together ↗ plan to ensure the safe return of Dream employees to corporate offices amid the 
COVID-19 pandemic 
Developed Return to Operations ↗ action plans to ensure the safe return of tenants to D.UN buildings amid the 
COVID-19 pandemicDream is committed to the health, safety and well-being of all employees to provide a safe workplace 
and prevent occupational injuries and illnesses. We want our employees to return home safely at 
the end of each day and incorporate these values into their personal lives.
At Dream, we target zero  
injuries for all employees  
and contractors.*Minor (first-aid) injuries not included.
*Lost days calculated as scheduled work days lost, beginning the day after the incident .
*All Dream employees are included in this data  
Lost-time injuries Near misses
Male 1 -
Female - -
Central Canada 1 -
Western Canada - -
Injury type(s) Sawdust in eye N/A
Lost days 2 N/A37 36
Social
Health & Safety
Featured Story
COVID-19 Return to 
Operations Plans
In the Spring of 2020, Dream demonstrated its commitment 
to the health and safety of our stakeholders in the face of 
an unprecedented global pandemic. Our teams were 
quick to develop and implement comprehensive plans and 
procedures to reduce health risks and prioritize the safety of 
our employees and tenants.
As part of our COVID-19 response, Dream Office REIT 
developed Return to Operations ↗ action plans for our tenants 
to ensure their safe return to buildings amid the COVID-19 
pandemic. These plans included measures such as:
An overview of our enhanced cleaning and indoor air 
quality standards
Lobby maps and instructions for new entrances, exits 
and walkways
Sample back to work checklists encouraging health 
screenings
Re-arrangement of office amenities to enable physical 
distancing
Guidelines for physical distancing in public spaces 
and washrooms
Examples of our new behavioural and directional 
signageDream also rolled-out our Better Together ↗ 
plan, detailing how Dream employees can 
return to our corporate offices safely. Our 
Better Together plan included measures 
such as:
Wellness and PPE Stations
A re-opening virtual orientation
Pre-return Checklist
“Stay Well” PPE Kits
Temperature checking stations
Behavioural and directional signage to enforce 
physical distancing throughout the officeWithin Dream, our executive leadership proactively 
engaged with employees to share information and 
offer comfort and support during a time of uncertainty. 
They provided constant communication, providing 
weekly updates and newsletters. In addition, the Chief 
Responsible Officer continually hosts weekly town halls 
with employees to discuss everything related to COVID-19, 
as well as workplace-related questions.  Dream committed to no 
layoffs and provided an 
immediate $1,400  bonus 
to all staff earning under 
$100,000 annually, at the 
beginning of the COVID-19 
outbreak.38 39
Social
Community Investments & Partnerships
Dream’s community investment initiatives underpin our 
objective of being a premiere community partner, as well 
as a builder and landlord of choice. We aspire to uphold 
our positive reputation in the communities where we 
operate and actively seek out opportunities to lead the 
industry in sustainable community development.
Our Approach 
Community partnerships at Dream are driven by 
community needs and managed on a project-by-project 
basis. Dream engages in partnerships on acquisitions and 
new developments to achieve common goals and create 
shared value amongst our stakeholders. For example, we 
work closely with Provincial and Municipal governments, 
as well as City Councillors across the Greater Toronto Area 
(GTA) and Ottawa to co-create solutions to issues, such 
as the need for more attainable housing and sustainable 
communities. This includes participating in monthly market 
round-table discussions to understand local priorities and 
collaborate on successful development programs. 
Indigenous engagement and partnerships are also priority 
areas that Dream has chosen to focus on in our approach 
to community investment in new developments including 
the Canary District and at Zibi.  
Featured Story
Anishinábe Health 
Toronto in the 
Canary District
In 2019, we continued work on our innovative partnership 
with Anishinábe Health Toronto to develop Canary Block 
10, a mixed-use project in the Canary District. Anishinábe 
Health Toronto is a community health centre with the 
mission to improve the health and well-being of Indigenous 
People in spirit, mind, emotion and body by providing 
Traditional Healing within a multi-disciplinary health 
care model. Canary Block 10 will be the first purpose-built 
Indigenous community hub in a North American city. The 
development will be comprised of a 239-unit condominium 
building, a 206-unit residential rental building, heritage 
retail space, a community health centre and a mixed-use 
commercial building that includes a training, education and 
employment centre, offices for Indigenous-owned businesses 
and a city daycare. Canary Block 10 is an important part of 
the Indigenous Hub which will celebrate culture and serve 
the needs of Toronto’s Indigenous community.
An innovative partnership with Anishinábe Health Toronto
Market condos, rental units, retail space and Indigenous hubDevelopment of community health centre, career training centre and daycare
Coordination with multiple governments, Indigenous groups & local community groupsAt Dream, we have always been committed to Building Better Communities by supporting local 
initiatives that strengthen the social fabric of the communities where we work and live. We believe 
in building and designing exceptional places to inspire and bring the community together. 
239
purpose-built 
rental units206
condo units~25,000 SF +
of heritage restoration
As a long-term thinking 
business, we think holistically  
about creating accessible, 
equitable and vibrant 
communities.Partnerships are a  
powerful tool that we use 
to enhance community 
investment when we 
approach development  
and acquisition 
opportunities.Canary District, Block 10 - Indigenous Hub 
Toronto, ON40 41
Zibi ↗ is a new borderless neighbourhood in the National 
Capital Region that spans Ottawa and Gatineau, 
overlooking the Ottawa River. Once complete, the 34-acre 
community will be home to 5,000 people and over 6,000 
jobs. Zibi will also feature nearly 8 acres of riverfront green-
spaces and millions of square feet of vibrant commercial 
space.
To date, two condominiums have been constructed, with 
seven distinct districts still in development. The community is expected to take nearly two decades to complete, providing 
an excellent pipeline of development opportunities.
In 2019, the first condominium at Zibi became fully occupied 
and the Eddy-Booth Street Corridor Transformation neared 
completion. Once finalized, the Corridor will be a complete 
street that provides safe and modern access across the 
Ottawa River to cyclists and pedestrians.
For a full list of Zibi achievements please read the 2019 One 
Planet Report  ↗.Social
Community Investments & Partnerships
Zibi is among the first 
One Planet Living 
Communities in the 
country, making it one of 
Canada’s most sustainable 
neighbourhoods.
Health &  
Happiness
Local &  
Sustainable 
FoodZero Carbon  
Energy
Sustainable 
WaterZero Waste
Land & NatureMaterials & 
Products
Culture & 
CommunityTravel and 
Transport
Equity & Local 
EconomyOne Planet Community 
Zibi adheres to the 10 principles of the One Planet Living 
framework. For more information, please read Zibi’s One 
Planet Action Plan  ↗.
Zibi 
Gatineau, QC - Ottawa, ON5,000 people 6,000 jobs 3 languages“One of the biggest reasons I felt secure and connected with 
the Zibi story was the One Planet Living principles, which 
share similarities with Anishinábe teachings.”
Josee Bourgeois
Member of the Memegweshii Council
42 43
Featured Story
Algonquin-Anishinábe  
Engagement at Zibi 
Development
Throughout the development process, Dream has engaged 
regularly with the Algonquin Anishinábe through a 
partnership with the Memegweshii Council, a traditional 
women’s council that consults on topics including culture 
and heritage. 
Dream sat down with Josee Bourgeois, a member of the 
Memegweshii Council, and Zibi’s Program Manager of 
Sustainability, Ashley Graham to discuss sustainability at 
Zibi.
Photo of Josee Bourgeois
Member of the Memegweshii CouncilSocial
Community Investments & Partnerships
What is One Planet Living and why did Zibi 
choose the framework?
Ashley:  One Planet Living fosters a culture of sustainability 
within the Zibi community. We chose the framework 
because it is flexible, practical and has a strong narrative. 
Josee:  The One Planet Living principles resonate with me 
because they share similarities with Anishinábe teachings. 
The ten principles give us a system of accountability to 
ensure Zibi is taking care of the land and recognizing the 
people. 
How did the partnership between Dream and the 
Algonquin-Anishinábe begin? 
Josee:  After learning about the proposed Zibi project, 
two members of the Algonquin Anishinábe Nation who 
are respected ceremony keepers felt the need to create a 
traditional council of women. They approached the initial 
developer of Zibi with a gift of tobacco. By accepting 
the tobacco, this means they were in cultural agreement 
to create the council, now named Memengweshii. The 
Memengweshii Council has evolved over the years and now 
consists of three women from the First Nation communities 
of Pikwakanagan and Kitigan Zibi. 
What advice would you give to others wanting 
to broker successful relationships between 
developers and Indigenous partners? 
Josee:  If a company engages us to collaborate on a 
project, we assume they are interested in reparations and building sincere respect. These relationships are 
imperative; however, they are also sensitive and require 
patience. I would urge companies to prepare themselves 
to help their Indigenous partners fight against systemic 
barriers along the road. Companies must understand 
that working with Indigenous partners requires a genuine 
commitment and that without a steadfast belief in the 
goals of a partnership, they risk disappointing an entire 
Nation by perpetuating colonial narratives of developers 
who profit at the expense of our ancestral lands.
What advice would you give to others wanting 
to develop sustainable neighbourhoods?
Ashley:  Ensure that sustainability is part of your project 
right from the outset. Our staff puts sustainability at the 
forefront of all discussions with the design teams and 
architects to confirm they understand and are committed 
to our goals.  
Looking to the future, what are you most excited 
for at Zibi? 
Josee:  My biggest priority is that Zibi is an experience, that 
your senses are engaged by the diverse representation of 
time periods and culture. I look forward to hearing stories 
from visitors and locals of how the parks and places 
resonate with them. There is still work to be done to ensure 
Algonquin-Anishinábe culture is represented and I look 
forward to guiding these discussions.
Ashley:  I’m excited to see Zibi turn from a construction site 
into a community. Zibi Interview with Ashley Graham and Josee Bourgeois
Forward-looking Plans
2020 will be a transformative year at Zibi. By the end of the year, we will have welcomed the residents of 
a second condominium building, Kanaal. We will also welcome commercial tenants and begin work on 
Pangishimo Park, our first green space which will feature views of the Ottawa River and sunsets.44 45
Social
Volunteering & Giving
Shoebox Project  ↗
The Shoebox Project for Women collects and distributes gift-filled Shoeboxes to women 
impacted by homelessness in communities across Canada and the United States. Each 
thoughtfully created and decorated Shoebox is filled with items valued at $50 that can 
enhance self-esteem and reduce feelings of isolation for women in need.
Forward-looking plans
We will continue to be active members of the communities where we operate through our volunteering and giving initiatives. 
Our goal is to improve our charitable impact in the future and continue to support like-minded organizations that contribute 
to improving the lives of those in need in our communities.Sandbox Project ↗ 
The Sandbox Project’s mission is to make Canada the healthiest place in the world for 
children to grow up by supporting their health, safety, and well-being. The Sandbox 
Project serves as an incubator for innovation in the quest to solve complex health and 
well-being issues by bringing together health care professionals, government, parents, 
community organizations, youth and other stakeholders into forums that allow for 
discussion, collaboration and creative problem solving.
2019 Key Accomplishments Our Approach
Dream employees are empowered to volunteer 
up to two paid days per year through our 
relationships with charitable organizations. 
These relationships are built and maintained by 
Community Leaders in each city who identify 
local volunteering opportunities and organize 
team volunteering days for their colleagues. 
We also encourage our employees to give 
back through an employee donation program 
whereby we contribute $500 annually per 
employee to charitable organizations that 
employees are actively involved with. We complement our community development projects with volunteering and giving projects that 
support vital social services and serve our communities’ most vulnerable populations. Dream also 
encourages all employees to live our values by becoming involved with causes they care about. 
Employees are then evaluated on how well they lived the company’s values as part of the annual 
review process. Dream prioritizes charitable organizations both locally and nationally that support 
youth in sport, women in shelters, women’s health, youth services and homeless and marginalized 
communities. Each Dream entity also supports additional initiatives of their choosing.
Case Study
Partnering with 
Tenants on the Tree 
of Dreams
For the fourth consecutive year, Dream hosted the Tree of 
Dreams campaign in support of local charities that care for 
underprivileged seniors. Through this campaign, Dream and 
its tenants can send gifts to seniors in our communities who 
might otherwise not receive gifts or visits during the holidays. 
The feedback from tenants continues to be overwhelmingly 
positive. With their help, we distributed nearly 450 gifts to 
seniors in 2019. In 2019, Dream supported: 
~$700,000
donated to charities~1,300
shoeboxes and $11,000 
were donated to The Shoebox 
Project for Women’s Shelters~450
gifts were donated to seniors 
in need through the Tree of 
Dreams programDream is the National Sponsor.
Woodgreen ↗
Woodgreen has been a social service agency in Toronto for over 80 years. The United 
Way Anchor Agency serves to connect people to vital services such as helping to find 
safe and affordable housing, helping seniors live independently, aiding newcomers 
in entering the job market, helping parents access childcare and assisting youth with 
accessing after-school programs and employment. 
Sponsored First Step to Home breakfast event in support of assistance program for 
senior men transitioning out of homelessness.
Provided in-kind desk space provided at 30 Adelaide in 
Toronto.46 47
Case Study
Innovative Technology Solutions 
at Alate Partners ↗
Using technology to rethink real estate, DRM, along with D.UN, entered into a strategic partnership 
with Relay Ventures to create Alate Partners to invest in technology companies that are rethinking 
how real estate is designed, built and managed. Alate Partners provides entrepreneurs with capital 
and unique access to real estate expertise, customers and partners that can help accelerate their 
growth. By embracing emerging technologies and new approaches to how we build and manage real 
estate, we can reduce our environmental impact and improve the quality of life in our communities.Social
Innovation & Property Technology
Technology is playing a transformational role in shaping the future of real estate. At Dream, we are re-
imagining how we go about our business by embracing opportunities to innovate, testing new capabilities 
and staying ahead of market trends. In doing so, we are improving the tenant experience through investing 
in advanced equipment, diagnostics, improved data analytics and enhanced occupant comfort.
Our Approach
Led by our Vice President of Innovation and Development, 
Dream is actively evaluating, experimenting, and investing 
in new technologies to improve the operations of our 
buildings and our business. These include upgrading 
foundational infrastructure within our buildings to allow 
information to flow between traditionally disconnected 
systems. For example, connecting occupancy sensors 
to lights, HVAC, and security systems. By using common 
communication protocols, this infrastructure allows new 
equipment, such as Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) sensors to be 
added quickly and seamlessly.
We are also improving our tenants’ experience by 
deploying the Lane app. Using the app, tenants can initiate 
service requests, expediting and enhancing the service 
we provide within our property management group by 
improving repair times and fostering better control for 
tenants in their space. 
Lastly, to optimize our business operations, we are 
modernizing software tools that our teams use to ensure 
they connect with the software in other parts of the 
business – for instance connecting the tools our leasing 
team uses directly with the accounting software.  
Alate Investment: Branch ↗
Stage: Early/Founded: 2019 HQ: New York
Alate Partners has recently invested in Branch, an office 
furniture start-up based in New York. Branch delivers 
inexpensive furniture that can be delivered within 48 
hours compared to traditional wait times of 8–16 weeks. 
In addition, it offers a trade-in program allowing office 
furniture to be reused rather than disposed of. Currently, 
most office furniture is single-use only and 17 billion 
pounds of office furniture ends up in a landfill every year. 
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Branch transitioned 
quickly to offer products designed specifically to help 
people work more comfortably from home.  
Alate Investment: Bird Rides ↗
Stage: Growth/Founded: 2017 HQ: Santa Monica 
Bird’s mission is to make cities more livable by reducing car usage, traffic and carbon emissions. 
Along with Alate Partners’ investment in Bird Rides, the company partnered with Relay Ventures 
and Obelysk to launch Bird Canada, a Canadian-owned and operated company that holds the 
exclusive license to operate Bird’s micro-mobility platform in Canada. Bird Canada complements 
public transit options to provide safe and reliable mobility options between destinations in urban 
areas.
Historical Quote:
We have always been innovative and 
embraced new ideas.
“The in-depth understanding we’ve gained by 
working closely with our tenants is helping us to 
create a new style of office space custom-suited 
to their requirements. In the future, we’ll continue 
to develop real estate solutions that address the 
realities of an evolving workplace.”
Michael Cooper 
Dundee Realty Corp.
1999 Annual Report Shareholder letter“As we are regularly improving our buildings for our 
tenants, often using new technology is the most effective 
approach. These technologies allow us to improve occupant 
satisfaction, reduce operational costs, and provide more 
personalized service.”
Brad Keast
VP of Innovation and Development
48 49
Social
Innovation & Property Technology
Case Study
District Thermal ↗ 
Heating at Zibi
At Zibi, we are developing the region’s first integrated district 
cooling and heating system by taking advantage of unused 
local resources to deploy steam and chilled water to provide 
sustainably sourced and highly efficient energy for the entire 
community. This will be the first post-industrial waste heat 
recovery system in a master planned community in North 
America. Our goal is that the district energy system will 
eliminate 100% of the community’s reliance on Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) emitting energy sources by 2025. This year, we 
made significant progress and investment through installing 
pipes that service the entire community. 
Through the use of a Zibi specific application, residents 
have the ability to control the thermal comfort of their 
units from afar using a mobile app. This state-of-the-art 
app gives residents a sense of ownership over their energy 
consumption.
Zibi 
Gatineau, QC / Ottawa, ONThis year Zibi made progress 
on its goal to be 100% powered 
by its innovative district energy 
system.
50 51
Social
Local Spend & Taxes
The following chapters discuss company specific sustainability initiatives for each of  
Dream’s public entities.Building Better Communities
Dream Public EntitiesAs  real estate owners, managers and developers, we understand the importance of taxes in creating 
value and contributing to the Canadian economy. Dream entities are subject to a range of federal, 
provincial and municipal taxes, fees, charges and levies. Below we summarize the collective amounts 
paid  in the normal course of operations.  
2019
Income Taxes * $107,798,000
Property Related Taxes 
Taxes paid on leased and owned property, school taxes, provincial/municipal land transfer tax or 
property registration taxes paid on the purchase of real property.$88,893,528
Development and Other Charges
Development charges/fees paid, building permits, levies and the cost of municipal services installed.$35,108,236 
People Taxes
Various payroll taxes including government pension, employment insurance, government health costs 
and workers’ compensation.$5,174,049
Total $236,973,813
*  The amount reported in 2019 includes payments of $102.1 million made by Dream Unlimited in February 2020 for 2019 income taxes payable. 2019 Dream Entities Economic  
Contributions through Taxes52 53
Dream Group of Companies
Dream Unlimited Corp. (DRM)
Dream Unlimited Corp. (TSX: DRM) is a leading developer of exceptional office 
and residential assets in Toronto, owns stabilized income generating assets in both 
Canada and the U.S., and has an established and successful asset management 
business, inclusive of $8 billion of assets under management. DRM has a proven 
track record for being innovative and for its ability to source, structure and 
execute on compelling investment opportunities. DRM is the asset manager for 
Dream Impact Trust and Dream Industrial REIT.
52
assets*
$8 billion
AUM as at September 30, 2020
$35 billion
of real estate transactions completed~14,200
condominium and purpose-built rental 
units in the Dream group portfolio
11.9 million
square feet of commercial/retail gross 
leasable area (GLA) across the Dream 
group portfolio
All figures as at September 30, 2020.
*Excluding land holdings in Western Canada.
Distillery District 
Toronto, ON
Canada’s premiere arts, culture and entertainment destination.54 55
Dream Unlimited Corp.
Key Accomplishments
We have a legacy of building communities that showcase best practices in sustainability. We strive to make positive impacts 
on the natural environment and the communities in which we operate, work and live. Our communities cater to buyers and 
tenants seeking a green, urban lifestyle where transit and public spaces have premium value. Whether we are building new 
communities, making new investments or operating our existing assets, we always aim to integrate sustainability into our 
practices for our customers, tenants, employees and home-buyers. 
We are committed to doing good, promoting health and well-being in our communities. This includes creating sustainable 
communities that reduce socio-economic inequalities and effectively manage resource consumption and production. Often, 
we have done this in partnership with various levels of government to support individuals in under-served groups. Building a 
better community is bigger than our organization and the assets we develop, it encompasses society at large and the cities 
in which we live and operate. 
DRM has policies covering all activities across the value chain including our Building Standards Manual for developments, our 
Guide to Sustainable Building Operations, and our Tenant Sustainability Handbook for customer relations.
For a full list of policies, please contact info@dream.ca  ↗.Dream Unlimited Corp.
Our ESG Approach
Based on Dream Asset Management Corporation employees, which includes DRM and MPCT.UN employees. Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties, 
employees on unpaid leave of absence (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns
As at November 13, 2020. 75%  of Directors 
are independent75+25
50%  of Directors 
are women50+50Canary District
Toronto, ONWe have always managed 
our business with the core  
pillars of  impact investing 
in mind, focused on creating  
inclusive communities for  
our residents, employees 
& tenants while generating 
strong financial returns.In 2020, DRM became a signatory to the Operating Principles for Impact Management 
and member of the Global Impact Investing Network.
Environmental
Arapahoe Basin entered collaboration with the 
Colorado Carbon Fund to offset 2019 fuel-related 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from all diesel, 
gasoline, and propane use  
Achieved  BOMA BEST  certification at the 
Distillery District for improving sustainability of 
heritage buildings
Nearing completion on the LEED Gold  Canary 
District development
Construction is underway on the District Thermal 
system at Zibi
Completed remediation of former oil refinery site in 
preparation for Brightwater development Distillery District Christmas market celebrated its 
10-year anniversary
50%  of employees, 39%  of managers and 44%  
of executives are women*
$252,207  paid out for employee tuition and 
professional fees*SocialDRM 2019 Highlights
Governance**
*
**56 57
Dream Unlimited Corp.
Environmental
DRM  continues to lead the industry as one of Canada’s largest ENERGY STAR certified builders. Energy Star is administered 
by Natural Resources Canada and promotes homes that are at least 20% more efficient than a house built to code. 
We go beyond regulatory requirements by integrating sustainability into technical design and procurement. Standard 
benchmarks for Dream homes include:
Case Study
BOMA BEST 
Certification at 
Distillery District ↗
The historic Distillery District is a Toronto landmark 
featuring 40 heritage buildings on 13 acres in Toronto’s 
East end. Seeing the potential, Dream purchased its 50% 
interest in the rundown buildings in an unpopular Toronto 
neighbourhood in 2004 for $15.5 million. In 2019, the 
buildings achieved BOMA BEST certification for embracing 
sustainability in heritage buildings despite the intrinsic 
obstacles. The Distillery District buildings currently have a 
value of $289 million and have become a globally recognized 
tourism destination attracting over 2 million visitors per year 
and the anchor of a revitalized East end where residents and 
visitors live, work and play against a beautiful, historical 
backdrop.
Distillery District 
Toronto, ONTriple-paned windows, LED lights and efficient 
furnaces to improve energy efficiency
ENERGY STAR appliances to reduce electricity and 
water usage
Long-lasting polyvinyl chloride water pipes to prevent 
water leakage Low-VOC interior paints and materials to improve air 
quality 
Heat recovery ventilator to supply fresh air in colder 
months 
Timber certified by the Forest Stewardship Council 
Strategic positioning to allow for optimal sunlight
Sustainable Procurement
DRM aims to develop local supply chains to minimize our environmental footprint and create local jobs. During procurement, 
we make a conscious effort to use 50% local trades and raw materials originating within an 800-kilometre radius. We also try 
to align ourselves with suppliers that have sustainability policies and values. In Regina, we have developed a Builder Standards 
Manual to ensure a safer construction site and a more attractive neighbourhood. We also employ consultants to monitor and 
prepare monthly report summaries of builder activity. Based on the report, we administer fines for infractions that must be 
paid before further lots are contracted to the builder. As a result, the cleanliness of construction sites has improved and there 
is less damage to concrete walkways and streets from heavy machines and equipment.Alpine Park 
Calgary, Alberta58 59
Dream Unlimited Corp.
Environmental
Energy Management
DRM is committed to using energy in an efficient, cost-effective and environmentally responsible manner. Our Energy Policy 
sets forth objectives that support this goal, including benchmarking energy use at all facilities, meeting our energy reduction 
targets, enrolling in demand response programs and educating employees and tenants on energy conservation.  
Climate Change 
As part of our flood risk and catastrophic loss risk assessment conducted in 2020, we identified properties in our portfolio 
that are at risk of losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year flood risks. Seven properties were found to be at risk of a 50-year 
flood, six properties were found to be at risk of a 100-year flood, seven properties were assessed as at risk from a 200-year 
flood, and 4 properties are at risk of a 500-year flood. Our next step in this process is to develop site-specific water damage 
mitigation plans based on the results of the assessment. 
Water Management
DRM is committed to reducing water consumption at our 
properties through preventative maintenance programs. 
Our Water Conservation Policy sets forth objectives 
that support this goal, including monitoring major water 
consuming equipment through building management 
systems, leak reporting through our tenant service 
program, routine inspections by staff, installing low 
flow water fixtures during washroom renovations, and 
monitoring landscape irrigation using rain sensors and 
control timers.
Case Study
Conserving Water for 
Landscape Irrigation 
in Brighton
The City of Saskatoon currently uses potable water from the 
municipality’s water mains for park irrigation. In designing 
the new park in Brighton, our master-planned Saskatoon 
community, we decided to try a new approach and collect 
rainwater in ponds. The ponds are used for storm water 
management and use the water collected to irrigate the 
surrounding parks and sports fields.
Brighton
Saskatoon, SK
Number of At-Risk Assets from Flooding*
50-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)100-year
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)200-year 
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)
Dream Unlimited Corp. 7 213,000 6 358,000 7 494,000 4 83,000
*    Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA).
*    Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated in the figures in the other time categories.
Zibi 
Gatineau, QC / Ottawa, ON60 61
Case Study
Sustainability 
Leadership at 
Arapahoe 
Basin Ski Area
Located in the Rocky Mountains, Arapahoe Basin Ski Area 
is committed to providing quality outdoor recreational 
experiences while continually improving their environmental 
performance. In 2018, Arapahoe Basin created a strategic 
plan to bolster the mountain’s sustainability goals and to help 
guide their sustainability initiatives. For more information, 
visit Arapahoe Basin’s sustainability website ↗.Dream Unlimited Corp.
Environmental
A new collaboration with the Colorado Carbon Fund 
to offset 2019 fuel-related greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions from all diesel, gasoline and propane use
54% renewable electricity use through new programs 
with Xcel Energy, our electricity provider 
On-site solar installations on the Kids Centre building 
and Ski Patrol Headquarters warming hut
50% waste diversion rate for the second year in a rowArapahoe Basin’s 2019 key accomplishments include:
These ambitious sustainability efforts make a positive 
impression on our guests. In post-departure surveys, 
guests overwhelmingly indicate that Arapahoe Basin’s 
sustainability initiatives influenced their decision to ski 
with us and that it will influence their decision to return. At 12,500 feet of elevation,  
the solar array on Arapahoe 
Basin’s Ski Patrol warming  
hut is the second highest in 
North America.
Arapahoe Basin Strategic 
Sustainability Plan 2025 Targets:
Become carbon neutral by 2025
100% renewable electricity
75% landfill diversion rate
No net increase in domestic  
water use
Increase carpooling and public 
transportation ridership
Be a leader in watershed and wildlife 
stewardship2018 20192025 
Target
Waste diversion 50% 50% 75%
Renewable energy 46% 54% 100% 62 63
New Hires and Turnover Rates*
Total Male FemaleAge
under 30 Age 
30-50Age 
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
CanadaUnited 
States Europe
New hires 48 23 25 28 18 2 37 11 - -
Voluntary 
turnover rate19.5% 7.5% 12% 7.9% 9.5% 2.1% 12.9% 6.6% - -Dream Unlimited Corp.
Social
Gender Breakdown
61+39 56+4450% Male50+5050% FemaleEmployees* Managers
61% Male39% FemaleExecutive Team
56% Male44% Female
Based on employees of Dream Asset Management Corporation, which includes employees of DRM and MPCT.UN, Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties, 
employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns. Turnover rate is calculated as a percentage of average employee 
headcount for 2019. European and U.S. employees are not included in employee turnover rates due to being under separate management.Dream employees in the community.
* Includes employees at all levels.
Our People
Dream’s strength as an organization comes from our strong 
and diverse workforce. Our employees possess expertise in 
a wide variety of areas that benefit our business, from real 
estate management and development to capital markets, 
risk, insurance and many more. 
Our people come from a wide range of backgrounds and 
places, bringing many valuable skills and perspectives to 
our team. The people we hire all have one thing in common: 
they share our company values and contribute to our 
company culture. Consistent with our values, 
we are very proud to have 
a strong female presence 
in our workforce. 39%  of 
our managers and 44%  
of our executive team are 
female. 
Employees(1) (2)Total Male Female Central Canada Western Canada
Permanent(3)199 101 98 134 65
Contract 9 2 7 5 4
Full-time(4)203 101 102 137 66
Part-time 5 2 3 2 3 DRM - Employee Summary
Includes employees of Dream Asset Management Corporation, including employees of DRM and MPCT.UN, Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties, 
employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns.
Numbers represented as total headcount, not full-time equivalent.
Includes permanent part-time employees.
Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week.(1)
(2)
208 total employees
(3)
(4)*64 65
Dream Unlimited Corp.
Social
Western Canada Communities
In a Dream community, something is always happening. 
Whether it’s a local cooking class, yoga in the park, or 
a big block BBQ, neighbours get to know one another, 
friendships form, support groups take shape and a genuine 
sense of community is created.
Without people, even the most beautiful of communities 
are no more than well-designed ghost towns. That’s why 
Dream dedicates so much time and energy into enlivening 
and activating our developments. It’s a process that 
normally takes years, but Dream believes that bringing 
people together is a huge part of creating community.
Science in the Park
Harbour Landing, Regina
Case Study
Broadview Hotel 
& Gladstone Hotel
DRM and Streetcar Developments recently redeveloped 
the historic Broadview Hotel  ↗, a landmark in Toronto’s 
East end, turning the much loved landmark into an arts and 
culture destination and community meeting place. In 2020, 
DRM and Streetcar purchased the historic Gladstone Hotel  ↗, 
the city’s oldest continually operating hotel in the vibrant 
and dynamic West Queen West community. We believe in building 
inclusive communities  
and designing exceptional 
places to create, inspire 
and bring the community 
together.
Fundamentals of Football
Harbour Landing, Regina
Fitness Classes
Eastbrook, Regina
Face-painting
Brighton Saskatoon
DRM has a reputation for 
restoring historic buildings, 
while honouring the legacy 
of their past.
Transformed the 127 year old landmark Broadview 
Hotel into a luxury boutique hotel bringing a much 
needed amenity to our East end Toronto community
Engaged and collaborated with the surrounding 
community to honour their neighbourhood, art, 
diversity and culture
Located in vibrant up and coming neighbourhoods 
with a dynamic arts and culture sceneBroadview Hotel Highlights:
“We have great respect for the West Queen West 
community and believe the Gladstone Hotel is a 
unique representation of the neighbourhood’s art,  
culture and diversity,” said Streetcar Developments  
founder and president Les Mallins of the acquisition.
Les Mallins (President, Streetcar Developments)
March, 2020 blogTO66 67
Dream Unlimited Corp.
GovernanceDream Unlimited Corp.
Forward-looking Plans
Role Responsibility 
Chief Responsible Officer; President of Asset management Oversight of sustainability at DRM
Governance & Nominating Committee Oversight of environmental property risks
Organization Design & Culture Committee Oversight of corporate culture and employee satisfaction 
Leaders & Mentors Committee Oversees diversity and inclusion at all levels of organization
Vice Chair, Development;  
Director, Impact Investments  
(in partnership with development managers and project leads)Manage the implementation of sustainable practices in the design of 
select development projects, including the Distillery District, Broadview 
Hotel, Canary and West Don Lands
Sustainability Manager, Arapahoe Basin Ski Area Manages the implementation of site-specific sustainability plans and 
objectivesSustainability at Dream is managed by the following:
Governance & Nominating Committee
Richard Gateman
Member
Vincenza Sera
Chair
Jennifer Lee Koss
Member
GIIN Member 
DRM is a member of the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN)  ↗. The 
GIIN is the leading non-profit dedicated to increasing the scale and 
effectiveness of impact investing. Impact investments are made into 
companies, organizations, and funds with the intention to generate 
social and environmental impact alongside a financial return. Impact 
investments can be made in both emerging and developed markets, and 
target a range of returns from below market to market rate, depending 
upon the circumstances. Our membership signifies a commitment to 
deepening our engagement in the impact investing industry.We will continue to manage our business with a focus on impact investing. DRM recently became a signatory to the Operating 
Principles for Impact Management , providing us with the opportunity to increase the number of investments that incorporate social 
and environmental impact investing principles as we go forward. 
COVID-19 Related initiatives:
One of our top priorities going forward is the safety and 
support of our employees through the COVID-19 pandemic. Our 
focus is ensuring that all employees feel empowered to make 
outstanding contributions, have meaningful work experiences 
and greater satisfaction.
We will do this through:
Continuing to follow public health guidelines 
Opening safely with best practice health and safety 
features
Continuing open lines of communication 
Providing additional supports to our employees through this 
challenging timeOur plans at DRM include growing our asset 
management business with a focus on impact 
investing:
Prioritizing embedding social and environmental  impact 
throughout our operations
Looking at how we can contribute to alleviating systemic 
social inequalities in our communities through real estate 
Continuing to invest in innovative Prop-tech ideas – using 
technology to make an impact
Releasing our fist impact report in 2021 which we are 
looking forward to as a major future milestone in Dream’s 
sustainability journey
Integrating and teaching impact across all investment 
decisions in all entities
Increasing engagement with impact investing through our 
GIIN Membership
Formalizing the impact framework for MPCT.UN based on 
the Operating Principles for Impact Management
Principles
DRM is a signatory to the Operating Principles for Impact Management 
↗, acting in our capacity as the asset manager for Dream Impact Trust. 
Over time, further assets or entities under our asset management 
umbrella may be added to the assets that align with this standard for 
impact investors.
75% of DRM Directors are independent  
and 50% are women.
Other initiatives:
Facilitating the work of our employee led Diversity, 
Inclusion and Advancement Committee
Launching sustainability working groups to guide strategy 
and best practices, including developing policies and 
frameworks for sustainability and impact reporting
Work with our partners and suppliers to review and 
encourage sustainable practices in our supply chain and 
with development partners68 69
Dream Group of Companies
Dream Impact Trust (MPCT.UN)
Dream Impact Trust is focused on impact investing, generating attractive returns 
as well as creating positive, social and environmental change in our communities 
and for our stakeholders. Previously Dream Hard Asset Alternatives Trust, the 
name was changed to Dream Impact Trust on October 26, 2020, to better align 
its brand with its purpose. 
25
assets
89.8%
occupancy rate (including committed)*0.5 million
square feet of owned gross leasable 
area (GLA)*$637.2 million
total assets
All figures as at September 30, 2020. 
*Based on core income property portfolio, defined as those that MPCT.UN plans to hold for the long-term. 
Brightwater
Port Credit, ON
Waterfront master planned community targeting LEED Gold.70 71
Dream Impact Trust
Key Accomplishments
In 2020, MPCT.UN became a pure-play impact investment vehicle, meaning that 
it pursues investments that provide both attractive market returns and generates 
measurable and verifiable positive impact. 
Based on Dream Asset Management Corporation employees, which includes DRM and MPCT.UN employees. Does not include employees at Dream recreational 
properties, employees on unpaid leave of absence (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns.
As at November 13, 2020. Includes members of both the GP and Trust Boards.67%  of Trustees  
are independent67+33
50%  of Trustees  
are women50+50
*
**MPCT.UN 2019 Highlights
Environmental
Completed remediation of former oil refinery site in 
preparation for Brightwater development  
Sussex Centre, built in 1989, was selected for one of 
Canada’s first green loans in 2020
Construction is underway on the District Thermal 
system at ZibiBroke ground on the West Don Lands project, a 
public-private partnership to create long-term 
affordable housing units in Toronto’s East end
Continued work on our innovative partnership with 
Anishinábe Health Toronto to develop Canary Block 
10, a mixed-use project, home to the first purpose-
built Indigenous community hub in a major North 
American city
First condominium at Zibi becomes substantially 
occupied
Zibi’s Eddy-Booth St Corridor Transformation 
project neared completion
Provided housing for 100 homeless people at our 
Lakeshore East (Victory Silos) location
50%  of employees, 39%  of managers and 44%  
of executives are women*
$252,207  paid out for employee tuition and 
professional fees*Social
Governance**72 73
Dream Impact Trust
Our ESG Approach
With its enhanced focus on impact investing, MPCT.UN is aligning 
its efforts around its core mission - building better communities 
for people to live, work and play in - while delivering returns to 
shareholders.
1. Attainable & Affordable Housing 3. Resource Efficiency 2. Inclusive Communities 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), also known as the Global Goals, were adopted by all 
United Nations Member States in 2015 as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and 
ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030.The design and development of real estate can promote 
inclusion, diversity, health and wellness as well as 
reduce our environmental footprint through sustainable 
development practices. 
In addition, the tangible nature of real estate makes impact 
investments more easily measurable.
Affordable Housing & Inclusive Communities
MPCT.UN integrates market and affordable units in 
our communities because they are an essential part of 
creating complete, family-focused, vibrant places that 
provide access to housing for people of all income levels.
Resource Efficiency
MPCT.UN aims to reduce the ecological footprint of our 
communities and actively contribute to the long-term 
sustainability for all our projects through investing in 
GHG emission reductions, reducing energy and water 
usage and increasing waste diversion efforts across our 
portfolio.MPCT.UN intends to outline impact investing targets that 
take into consideration Canada’s desire to achieve net-
zero emissions by 2035 and that are designed to reduce 
the cost of living and improve the standard of living in 
our communities. Execution of our strategy will positively 
impact the communities in which we develop and manage 
our real estate.
MPCT.UN will report on impact performance annually 
based on leading impact reporting frameworks.
MPCT.UN has policies covering all activities across the 
value chain including our Building Standards Manual 
for developments, our Guide to Sustainable Building 
Operations and our Tenant Sustainability Handbook for 
customer relations.
For a full list of policies, please contact:  
info@dreamimpacttrust.ca  ↗.MPCT.UN is Canada’s first 
publicly traded real estate 
impact investment vehicle.
MPCT.UN focuses on three core impact principals:
Attainable and affordable housing: invest in mixed-income 
communities that are transit-oriented and located close to 
employment opportunities and offer lower relative cost of living 
(housing where the total monthly shelter cost is at or below 
Toronto’s average market rent)
Inclusive communities: create communities that generate 
positive social outcomes for all groups, with a focus on 
Indigenous peoples and women’s empowerment 
Resource efficiency: develop sustainable real estate that 
optimizes energy use, limits greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
and reduces water use and wasteWe believe that real estate 
is uniquely positioned to 
positively influence society 
from both a socioeconomic and 
environmental perspectiveWe believe as the owner and developer of real estate, we 
are well positioned to make a significant difference in 
our communities and for our stakeholders through these 
verticals. From an impact perspective, MPCT.UN will 
benchmark its performance on an annual basis against 
specific targets that will conform to principles set out by 
reputable third parties.
Each of these impact verticals align with the universally 
recognized and accepted UN Sustainable Development 
Goals  ↗.  West Don Lands purpose-built rental community
Toronto, ON74 75
Dream Impact Trust
Environmental
Climate Change 
As part of our flood risk and catastrophic loss risk assessment conducted in 2020, we identified properties in our portfolio that are at 
risk of losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year flood risks. One property was found to be at risk of a 100-year flood. Our next step in this 
process is to develop site-specific water damage mitigation plans based on the results of the assessment.
Case Study
Flood Prevention 
at Zibi
In the spring of 2019, the National Capital Region 
experienced unprecedented and catastrophic flooding. At 
Zibi, our project on the islands and shores of the Ottawa 
River, climate change risks are top of mind. Our buildings 
are constructed to accommodate a 1-in-1000-year flood 
and incorporate additional climate adaptation measures, 
including waterproofing of underground infrastructure. As a 
result, we  avoided adverse impact from the flooding  of 2019 
and will continue to follow climate change science closely to 
prepare for future changes.
Zibi 
Gatineau, QC / Ottawa, ONNumber of At-Risk Assets from Flooding*
Energy Management
MPCT.UN is committed to using energy in an efficient, cost-effective and environmentally 
responsible manner. Our Energy Policy sets forth objectives that support this goal, 
including benchmarking energy use at all facilities, meeting our energy reduction 
targets, enrolling in demand response programs and educating employees and tenants 
on energy conservation.
Water Management 
MPCT.UN is committed to reducing water consumption at our properties through 
preventative maintenance programs. Our Water Conservation Policy sets forth 
objectives that support this goal, including monitoring major water consuming 
equipment through building management systems, leak reporting through our tenant 
service program, routine inspections by staff, installing low flow water fixtures during 
washroom renovations and monitoring landscape irrigation using rain sensors and 
control timers.
50-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)100-year
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)200-year 
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)
MPCT.UN - - 1 61,000 - - - -
*    Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA).
*    Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated in the figures in the other time categories.
**  Only MPCT.UN assets managed by D.UN were included in assessment.
Zibi
Gatineau, QC / Ottawa, ON76 77
Dream Impact Trust
Environmental
Sustainable Development 
We consult with the public to identify community needs 
that can be incorporated into the overall development 
plan prior to starting the application process. We also 
work with leading urban designers and master community 
planners to create attractive, community-oriented and 
environmentally sustainable concepts that integrate 
sustainability practices. These include:
Creating inclusive and vibrant urban communities that 
people are proud to live and work in
Building long-term affordable housing in prime 
locations close to transit and employment
Integrating market and affordable units to create 
diverse, mixed-income, family-focused communities
Committing to sustainable design in urban centres – 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
Gold  or higher
Partnering with Indigenous communities
Integrating our communities into the natural 
environment by building around important 
environmental amenities and using native plants and 
grassesCase Study
Brightwater ↗ 
Remediation 
Brightwater, formerly an Imperial Oil refinery in Port Credit, 
Ontario, is being redeveloped into a vibrant and accessible 
mixed-use waterfront community which will become home 
for 6,000 people and create ~2,000 jobs during and post 
construction. Brightwater was recently named the 2020 
winner for the prestigious BILD Pinnacle Award for Best 
New Community – Planned / Under Development and is 
targeting LEED Gold Certification.
The source remediation program is now complete and vertical 
construction is expected to commence in 2021. The program 
took nearly two years and involved the excavation of 1.4 
million tonnes of soil and 565 thousand tonnes of impacted 
soil being disposed of securely in a landfill. This process 
resulted in cleaning up the environmental contamination 
left behind by a formal oil refinery and allowed the site to be 
transformed into a safe, livable community.
Highlights include:
 ~3,000 residential units (including affordable)
400,000 square feet (retail and commercial space)
1,000 trees to be replanted
Central amenities, destination retail and restaurants
Elementary school
YMCA
18 acres of parks and outdoor gathering spaces
Bike share programs 78 79
New Hires and Turnover Rates*Dream Impact Trust
Social
Our People
Dream’s strength as an organization comes from our strong 
and diverse workforce. Our employees possess expertise in 
a wide variety of areas that benefit our business, from real 
estate management and development to capital markets, 
risk, insurance and many more. 
Our people come from a wide range of backgrounds and 
places, bringing many valuable skills and perspectives to 
our team. The people we hire all have one thing in common: 
they share our company values and contribute to our 
company culture. Consistent with our values, 
we are very proud to have 
a strong female presence 
in our workforce. 39%  of 
our managers and 44%  
of our executive team are 
female. 
MPCT.UN - 2019 Employee SummaryGender Breakdown
61+39 56+4450% Male50+5050% FemaleEmployees* Managers
61% Male39% FemaleExecutive Team
56% Male44% Female
Includes employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, which includes DRM and MPCT.UN employees. Does not include employees at Dream recreational prop -
erties, employees on unpaid leave of absence (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns. 
Numbers represented as total headcount, not full-time equivalent. 
Includes permanent part-time employees. 
Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week. (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)Includes employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, which includes DRM and MPCT.UN employees. Does not include employees at Dream recreational 
properties, employees on unpaid leave of absence (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns. Turnover rate is calculated as a percentage of average 
employee headcount for 2019. European and U.S. employees are not included in employee turnover rates due to being under separate management.* Includes employees at all levels.
Total Male FemaleAge
under 30 Age 
30-50Age 
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
CanadaUnited 
States Europe
New hires 48 23 25 28 18 2 37 11 - -
Voluntary 
turnover rate19.5% 7.5% 12% 7.9% 9.5% 2.1% 12.9% 6.6% - -
*Dream employees.208 total employees
Employees(1) (2)Total Male Female Central Canada Western Canada
Permanent(3)199 101 98 134 65
Contract 9 2 7 5 4
Full-time(4)203 101 102 137 66
Part-time 5 2 3 2 3 80 81
Dream Impact Trust
Social
Case Study
Affordable Housing 
at West Don Lands
In 2019, we broke ground on our West Don Lands project, a 
public-private partnership with the Government of Canada, 
Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) and 
the Province of Ontario to create long-term affordable 
housing units (housing where the total monthly shelter cost 
is at or below Toronto’s average market rent). The West Don 
Lands project is one of the largest affordable housing projects 
in Canada and the first part of the Provincial Affordable 
Housing Lands Program to break ground. 
Affordability and Mixed-income Neighbourhoods 
Dream develops a wide range of housing types to meet 
the needs of varying ages, income groups and lifestyles. 
We believe building mixed-use and mixed-income projects 
within our master-planned communities is smart business 
and aligns with our values, as well as our commitment to 
shareholders and communities.
To date, we have excavated to build three towers with 770 
units, 231 of which will be affordable, with the others being 
offered at average market rent. When the development 
is complete, the entire West Don Lands development will 
have 2,286 units in total, with approximately 30% being 
affordable.  Key accomplishments include:
LEED Gold and Toronto Green Standard version 2 
environmental efficiency
Won a competitive bidding process by ensuring long-
term affordability and our plan to manage without 
further government incentives 
Secured $357 million of financing as part of Canada 
Mortgage and Housing Corporation’s (CMHC) Rental 
Construction Financing initiativeFirst mixed-use, purpose-built rental community in the 
area
Public-private partnership to create long-term 
affordable units
2,286 rental units inclusive of 30% affordable at 80% 
Adjustable Mortgage Rate (AMR)
5,000 sq. ft. of dedicated community space
300,000 sq. ft. + of commercial space
82 83
Case Study
Respite for the 
Homeless at Lakeshore 
East Silos
The Victory Soya Mills Silos were constructed during World 
War II to store commodities prior to transportation across 
Canada.  The silos were listed as one of Toronto’s Heritage 
Properties in 2004, adding to the uniqueness of any future 
development on this site. During the 2017 Syrian refugee 
crisis we worked with the city to use the site to provide respite 
for Toronto’s overwhelmed shelter system. Currently there 
are beds for 100 homeless people on the site and we have 
extended our contract with the city through 2021. Dream Impact Trust
Social
Case Study
Green Loan at Sussex 
Centre Complex
In October of 2020, we announced the closure of a $120 
million green loan for the Sussex Centre complex in 
Mississauga, Ontario with HSBC Bank Canada. The loan 
is compliant with the Loan Market Association’s Green Loan 
Principles. Green loans are a new lending product that are 
designed to finance projects with strong environmental 
benefits including combatting climate change, optimizing 
energy efficiency and any associated capital projects that help 
contribute to reducing the harmful impacts of greenhouse 
gas (GHG).
The Sussex Centre, built in 1989, features two office 
buildings located at 50 & 90 Burnhamthorpe Road in 
Mississauga comprising 651,000 square feet of rentable 
area and is co-owned by D.UN and MPCT.UN.  The Sussex 
Centre demonstrates its commitment to environmental best 
practices as it boasts a BOMA BEST Gold level certification 
as well as Silver certification under the Canada Green 
Building Council’s (CaGBC) Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED). The property is aiming for 
recertification as LEED Gold in 2021. Sussex Centre is a 
great fit for a green loan based on the investments that are 
being made into the building, including those which lower 
its carbon and energy footprint by installing air handling 
units, completing floor upgrades and renewing heat pumps. “Sustainability is a strategic priority 
for Dream Impact Trust. We are focused 
on embedding sustainability across our 
platform. Obtaining a green loan for 
Sussex Centre demonstrates Dream’s 
continued commitment to sustainability 
and innovation in the real estate sector .”
Michael Cooper
President and Chief Responsible Officer of Dream84 85
Dream Impact Trust
GovernanceDream Impact Trust
Forward-looking Plans
MPCT.UN is working hard to integrate sustainability into every aspect of our development processes and operations. Looking forward, 
we will be formalizing our approach to impact investing  by creating a framework and incorporating guidelines from the world’s leading 
impact and ESG bodies. DRM, MPCT.UN’s asset manager, has recently become a signatory to the International Finance Corporation’s 
(IFC) Operating Principles for Impact Management  ↗. In addition DRM has become a member of the Global Impact Investing Network 
(GIIN)  ↗.
Sustainability at MPCT.UN is overseen and managed by DRM, with whom MPCT.UN co-invests on many of its projects. 
Sustainability efforts are managed by the following:
Role Responsibility 
Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee; Reviewing corporate governance practices, reviewing the 
environmental state of any real property investments and 
establishing policies and procedures to monitor exposure to 
environmental related risks and liabilities
Portfolio Manager, MPCT.UN;  
President of Asset management of DRM;Oversight of sustainability at MPCT.UN
Vice Chair, Development of DRM;  
MPCT.UN”s  Director, Impact Investments;  
(in partnership with project specific leads)Manages implementation of sustainable practices in the design 
of select development projects including the West Don Lands and 
Canary District projects
Program Manager of Sustainability at Zibi Manages the implementation of site-specific sustainability plans 
and objectives
Building Certifications 
Green building certifications help us incorporate a range of 
sustainability features into our physical properties and our 
daily practices. According to the Canadian Green Building 
Council (CaGBC), green-certified buildings or communities 
with lower operating costs and superior indoor environmental 
quality are more attractive to a growing group of customers. 
Studies have shown that certified buildings produce higher 
capital and income growth relative to industry benchmarks.Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee 
Amar Bhalla
Member
Joanne Ferstman
Member
Karine MacIndoe
MemberOur priorities for creating an impact 
framework include:
Creating impact pathways for each of the qualifying assets
Measuring our impact in a repeatable and systematic manner 
Having our progress and achievements audited by an 
independent third-party
Releasing our first impact report in 2021, which will be a 
significant milestone in Dream’s sustainability journey
As we formalize the framework for impact over the next twelve 
months and define our impact declarations, we are committed 
to providing transparency on how we measure and report on 
the impact we are creating.
Pursuing building certifications:
Pursuing BOMA Best certification at three of our downtown 
Toronto properties: 49 Ontario Street, 10 Lower Spadina 
Avenue and 349 Carlaw Avenue 
Seeking LEED Gold certification at the Sussex Centre in 
Mississauga, Ontario
Installing real-time monitoring and target system for 
electricity, gas, water and GHG emissions67% of MPCT.UN Trustees are independent  
and 50% are women.*
Operating Principles for Impact Management
As required by the Principles, Dream Impact Trust will publish 
an annual disclosure statement describing the alignment of our 
impact management systems and processes with the Principles.
The Principles are a standard for systems and processes for 
the management of investments targeting the achievement of 
positive social and environmental impact.
We will also have this disclosure statement verified by a third 
party and are committed to being transparent and systematic 
in our approach to impact management.
LEED
The Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
certification provides independent, third-party verification 
that a building was built using strategies aimed at achieving 
high performance in key areas of human and environmental 
health. It is administered by the Canadian Green Building 
Council (CaGBC)  ↗.BOMA BEST
BOMA BEST  ↗ is a leading certification program for existing 
buildings in Canada, administered by the Building Owners 
and Manager’s Association Canada (BOMA). Over 3,150 
buildings, totalling 594 million square feet of Canadian 
commercial real estate, are certified.
Based on members of both the Trust and GP Board.(1)
86 87
Dream Group of Companies
Dream Office REIT (D.UN)
Dream Office REIT (TSX: D.UN) is an unincorporated, open-ended real estate 
investment trust. D.UN is focused on owning, leasing and managing well-
located, high-quality office properties. The portfolio comprises office properties 
predominantly located in downtown Toronto.
27
properties(1) 
5.1 million
square feet of gross leasable 
area (GLA)(1)$2.9 billion
total assets88.0%
portfolio occupancy (including 
committed)(1)
All figures as at September 30, 2020.
(1) Excludes investment in joint ventures, acquired properties, properties under development and assets held for sale as at September 30,2020.212 King Street W
Toronto, ON
Built in 1907 as the HQ of the Canadian General Electric Company.88 89
Dream Office REIT
Key Accomplishments
Governance**
71+2971%  of Trustees  
are independent
43%  of Trustees  
are women43+57Launched Lane ↗, a tenant 
experience platform for  
commercial office buildings.D.UN 2019 Highlights
Environmental
438 University Avenue upgraded to LEED 
Operations and Maintenance v4.1 Platinum  ↗ 
certification
12%  of properties are Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) certified 
100% of Canadian properties over 100,000 
square feet are BOMA BEST  ↗ certified 
100%  of the portfolio is using ENERGY STAR 
Portfolio Manager (ESPM)  ↗
23,819 tCO2e* total 2019 GHG emissions 
(tC02e) 
4.5*  2019 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per 
sq. ft. (kgCo2e/sq. ft.)
0.7%*  reduction in energy consumption from 2018 
to 2019
1.85%*  reduction in water consumption from 
2018 to 2019
25.7%  of GLA is separately metered or sub-
metered for energy consumption
2.8%  of GLA is separately metered or sub-metered 
for water consumption100%  of Canadian Dream Office properties have 
annual indoor air-quality testing
Installed Base Building Network (BBN) at eight sites 
in downtown Toronto, with another two underway. 
BBN enhances interconnectivity for smart building 
solutions and cybersecurity protections
Upgraded to a more robust energy management 
platform to help better track sustainability metrics 
using a market leading provider
Installed rooftop beehives at two properties: 
Adelaide Place in Toronto and Kensington House in 
Calgary, Alberta
Received approvals for over $400,000  in utility 
incentives for energy management projects 
from Ontario’s Independent Electricity System 
Operator’s (IESO), SaveOnEnergy program, 
Enbridge, the Government of Canada and other 
programs
11 properties completed LED light retrofits
Won BOMA  Toronto’s Beyond Earth Hour 
Challenge  ↗ landlord award for impressive 
energy reductions over earth hour weekend at 67 
Richmond Street WestSocial
$230,225  paid out towards employee tuition and 
professional fees*
78.8%  of tenants surveyed reported high 
satisfaction with their landlord/manager/ owner’s 
level of customer service
38%  of employees and 50%  of managers are 
women*
Developed Return to Operations  ↗ plans to ensure 
the safe return of our tenants to our buildings amid 
the COVID-19 pandemic
58.6%  of tenants surveyed reported feeling that 
they worked in one of the best buildings in the 
market
357 Bay Street
Toronto, ON*
**Dream Office Management Corp. employees.
As at November 13, 2020. Energy, GHG emissions and water data stated in the scorecard reflects like-for-like data and excludes properties under development and the following assets: 12800 Foster Street, 
Overland Park, Kansas;  234 – 1st Avenue South, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan; 212 King Street West, Toronto; 220 King Street West, Toronto. Dream Office GHG emissions represent 
all offices where Dream pays the utility bills. Year-over-year comparisons represent a like-for-like scenario and includes buildings where full 2014-2019 data is available.
Dream Office GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. They capture activities Dream Office has direct and indirect operational control over:
 — Scope 1 emissions generated directly from its operations, including heating within Dream’s offices
 — Scope 2 emissions indirectly associated with generation of purchased electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumed by offices
 — Scope 3 emissions indirectly associated with energy consumption related to water use**90 91
Dream Office REIT
Our ESG Approach
D.UN has been integrating sustainability best practices into our 
operations since 2011. We work hard to reduce our energy  use,  
water use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as well as divert 
waste to benefit the environment and our tenants. Our experience 
as operators also gives us a competitive advantage in repositioning 
buildings to increase their value and reduce their environmental 
impact. Improving the resource efficiency of our buildings through 
capital upgrades is strongly aligned with our purpose to Build Better 
Communities as we find opportunities to transform our buildings 
into modern hubs that are positioned to meet market expectations 
now and into the future.   
Sustainability at D.UN is guided by policies that cover activities 
across the value chain, including our Guide to Sustainable Building 
Operations and Environmental Management Handbook for 
operations and our Tenant Sustainability Handbook and Occupant 
Environmental Communication Program for customer relations.
For a full list of policies, please contact us at officeinfo@dream.ca  ↗.
Sustainable buildings are 
desirable buildings.
212, 220 King St. W
Toronto, ON
Artist rendering, ©2020 SHOP ARCHITECTS PC. All Rights Reserved.
250 Dundas St. W.
Toronto, ON
Artist RenderingDeveloping and maintaining high-quality, energy 
efficient office buildings has become a differentiator 
that allows us to appeal to a broader range of tenants 
and sustain high occupancy rates.92 93
Dream Office REIT
Scorecard
Energy, GHG emissions and water data stated in the scorecard reflects like-for-like data and excludes properties under development and the following assets: 12800 Foster Street, 
Overland Park, Kansas;  234 – 1st Avenue South, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan; 212 King Street West, Toronto; 220 King Street West, Toronto. Dream Office GHG emissions represent 
all offices where Dream pays the utility bills. Year-over-year comparisons represent a like-for-like scenario and includes buildings where full 2014-2019 data is available.
Dream Office GHG emissions are calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. They capture activities Dream Office has direct and indirect operational control over:
 — Scope 1 emissions generated directly from its operations, including heating within Dream’s offices
 — Scope 2 emissions indirectly associated with generation of purchased electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumed by offices
 — Scope 3 emissions indirectly associated with energy consumption related to water use
Waste Diversion data stated in the scorecard only includes data from D.UN properties located in the Greater Toronto Area.Environmental Indicators
Topic 2019 Progress 2025 Targets
Energy Consumption*0.7% year-over-year energy consumption 
reduction from 2018-201910% total reduction of energy consumption 
by 2025 versus 2019 baseline
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHGs)*2.9%* year-over-year GHG emissions 
reduction from 2018 to 201910% total reduction of emissions by 2025 
versus 2019 baseline
Water Consumption*1.85% year-over-year water consumption 
reduction10% total reduction in water consumption 
by 2025 versus 2019 baseline
Waste Diversion** 42% 75% average diversion rate across the 
portfolio by 2025
Green Building Certification On track100% certification (any program) of all 
Canadian office sites by 2025
Social Indicators
Topic 2019 Progress 2025 Targets
Workforce Statistics 48% of managers are women Commitment to diverse workforce
Employee Development$230,000 paid to D.UN employees for 
tuition and professional development fees Commitment to employee development
Employee Donations 450 gifts donated to Tree of DreamsCommitment to local communities and 
social causes
Employee Satisfaction Launching an employee survey in 2021Commitment to assess and improve 
employee well-being and develop a strong 
employer brand
Governance Indicators
Topic 2019 Progress 2025 Targets
Board Gender Balance 43% of D.UN Trustees are womenAspiration to have gender diverse Board of 
Trustees
Board Independence 71% of D.UN Trustees are independentAspiration to have high ratio of independent 
TrusteesDream Office REIT
Environmental
Energy Efficiency
Improving energy efficiency is an important part of our operational strategy. It reduces utility costs, decreases our GHG emissions 
and lowers our climate change impact. We achieved energy efficiency and conservation through capital investments in technological 
and operational improvements, process changes and modifying occupant behaviours. Further, all of D.UN’s properties are equipped 
with a real-time operating system that enables property managers to view electricity consumption data in 15-minute intervals to better 
manage each building’s environmental impact and stress on the grid. 
In 2019, we completed energy audits throughout the portfolio to identify opportunities for energy efficiency improvements. Opportunities 
identified have been incorporated into 10-year capital plans for each property. Each capital plan includes upgrades such as building 
automation system upgrades, LED retrofits, heating, ventilation and air conditioning improvements and retro-commissioning projects. 
We are currently in the process of sequencing and prioritizing actions to be taken at each property to optimize performance.
From 2014 to 2018, D.UN exceeded both its 10% energy and water consumption reduction targets, decreasing energy by 13.5% and 
water by 15.1%. D.UN continues to raise the bar by setting new targets to meet by 2025. The 2025 targets were internally established in 
collaboration between the Asset Management, Technical Services, and the Sustainability team, with approval from senior management.  
Case Study
Peak Power ↗
Thanks to an innovative partnership with Peak Power, 
tenants at Adelaide Place and 30 Adelaide Street East in 
Toronto can purchase an electric vehicle at a discounted 
lease. Peak Power, a software developer that helps building 
owners, project developers and utilities operate more energy 
efficiently installed a two-way charging infrastructure at 
these buildings that allows electric vehicles to send electricity 
back to the building during “peak” demand periods. This 
reduces the building’s overall energy costs, with a portion of 
the savings going to drivers. The technology was developed 
by Peak Power along with Ontario Power Generation to 
help make the transition to electric vehicles more attractive 
to consumers. Peak Power uses machine learning, a form 
of artificial intelligence, to predict high electricity demand, 
which can form over 65% of a typical electricity bill. We are 
currently exploring expansions of this technology to other 
eligible D.UN properties in downtown Toronto.**
**94 95
Dream Office REIT
Environmental
Building Certifications
100% of all Canadian properties over 100,000 square 
feet are BOMA BEST certified with operating standards 
requiring ongoing management of energy, water and 
waste. Additionally, we are also raising the bar and 
challenging our sites to achieve a BOMA Gold Certification 
standard across the portfolio moving forward.
12% of our portfolio has achieved LEED certification. 
Notable building certification achievements this year 
include 438 University Avenue upgrading to LEED Platinum 
and Sussex Centre achieving LEED Silver. D.UN is planning 
to achieve LEED certification for two additional properties 
annually over the next three years.   438 University Ave. is the 
most recent project in 
Canada to have earned 
LEED O+M v4.1 Platinum 
certification
438 University Avenue is one of only 31 projects that 
have received LEED v4.1 Platinum  ↗ certification of any 
type, and one of only 23 that have earned LEED O+M 
v4.1 certification, which is specific to Operations and 
Maintenance. The building is outperforming buildings of 
similar size and occupancy, locally and globally in energy 
use, water use and waste diversion.Climate Change 
As part of a flood risk and catastrophic loss risk assessment conducted in 2020, we identified properties in our portfolio that 
are at risk of losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year floods. Our next step in this process is to develop site-specific water 
damage mitigation plans based on the results of the assessment.
Water Management
We aim to minimize our use of potable water and decrease 
water consumption where possible through fixture retrofits 
and efficiency upgrades. Water management plans at 
each building provide a framework for identifying water 
conservation measures, developing implementation plans 
and setting building targets.
Supplier Engagement
D.UN practices responsible supply chain management 
by including sustainability specific requirements in our 
procurement and contracting processes. We manage 
these practices through our Green Procurement Policy, 
Purchasing Policy, relevant building certification 
requirements as well as through the use of services 
including ContractorCheck and RiskCheck. These tools 
help us to ensure that products used at our buildings have 
passed environmental product and process standards 
and that all on-site contractors operate within safe and 
fair working conditions. Compliance with these policies is 
monitored by our property management teams.
Case Study
Rooftop Beehives
We partnered with Alveole to promote the 
growth of a healthy population of bees at two 
of our properties: Adelaide Place in downtown 
Toronto & Kensington House in Calgary, Alberta. 
This initiative demonstrates our commitment to 
responsible stewardship of the environment at 
our properties and developments. In addition 
the feedback from our tenants has been 
overwhelmingly positive and they love the honey 
that is produced. 
438 University Ave.
TorontoNumber of At-Risk Assets from Flooding*
50-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)100-year
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)200-year 
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)
D.UN - - 2 88,000 - - 2 238,000
*    Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA).
*    Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated in the figures in the other time categories.
100%
BOMA BEST certification of all 
Canadian properties over 100,000 sq. ft. 
12%
LEED  certified74%
less energy required to 
operate it56%
less water is consumed
7+62+22+3+3+363%
D.UN Portfolio Certification by Type and Level*
BOMA BEST Gold BOMA Best CertifiedLEED Silver BOMA BEST BronzeBOMA BEST Silver
*Graph totals over 100% due to Sussex Centre and 438 University 
Avenue having both BOMA BEST and LEED certifications.LEED Platinum22%7%4%96 97
Dream Office REIT
Social
Our People
D.UN’s strength as an organization comes from our strong 
and diverse workforce. Our employees possess expertise in 
a wide variety of areas that benefit our business, from real 
estate management and development to capital markets, 
risk, insurance and many more.  
Our people come from a wide range of backgrounds and 
places, bringing many valuable skills and perspectives to 
our team. The people we hire all have one thing in common: 
they share our company values and contribute to our 
company culture.  Consistent with our values, 
we are very proud to have 
a strong female presence 
in our workforce. 50%  of 
our managers are women.  
Employees(1) (2)Total Male Female Central Canada Western Canada
Permanent(3)201 123 78 180 21
Contract 9 8 1 7 2
Full-time(4)209 130 79 186 23
Part-time 1 1 - 1 -D.UN - Employee Summary
Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Office REIT activities and excludes employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, 
parental leave) and interns.
Numbers represented as total headcount, not full-time equivalent.
Includes permanent part-time employees.
Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week. (1)
(2)
(3)
(4)New Hires and Turnover Rates*
Gender Breakdown
50+50 10062% Male62+3838% FemaleEmployees* Managers
50% Male50% FemaleExecutive Team
100% Male0% Female
Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Office REIT activities and excludes employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, 
parental leave) and interns. Turnover rate is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2019.* Includes employees at all levels.
Total Male FemaleAge
under 30 Age 
30-50Age 
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
Canada
New hires 39 24 15 13 18 8 36 3
Voluntary 
turnover rate15.5% 8.4% 7.1% 2.1% 10.5% 2.9% 13.8% 1.7%
*Dream employees
210 total employees98 99
Dream Office REIT
Social
Tenant Engagement & Leasing 
Most leases in the portfolio are structured such that 
tenants pay for their share of resource consumption and 
benefit from our efficiency programs. Leases generally 
contain clauses that allow for the recovery of certain 
capital expenditures over time, some of which relate to 
energy efficiency and HVAC upgrades.
Tenants play an important role in managing sustainability 
performance of our assets. We collaborate with tenants 
to support both our sustainability objectives and 
commitments and our tenants’ sustainability priorities. 
Our tenant engagement program at D.UN means we are in 
frequent communication with all tenants through a variety 
of channels. In addition to providing tenants easy access 
to building communications through the Lane app,  we also 
engage tenants through feedback sessions, meetings, our 
Tenant Sustainability Handbook, training sessions, as well 
as holding building events focused on increasing tenant 
awareness of sustainability issues such as Earth Hour. We 
also conduct a third-party survey annually to understand 
our tenant’s needs and satisfaction with our services. 
D.UN is proud to manage leasing operations at several 
DRM and MPCT.UN developments, including Zibi and 
Canary Block 10. Zibi  ↗ is an innovative cross-province 
neighbourhood that adheres to the 10 principles of the One 
Planet Living framework, a comprehensive sustainability 
plan featuring Indigenous inclusion objectives. Canary 
Block 10 is a mixed-use project that is home to the first 
purpose-built Indigenous community hub in a major North 
American city.
An overview of our enhanced cleaning and indoor air 
quality standards
Lobby maps and instructions for new entrances, exits 
and walkways
Sample back to work checklists encouraging health 
screenings and re-arrangement of office amenities to 
enable physical distancing
Guidelines for physical distancing in public spaces 
and washroomsCOVID-19 Response
Dream Office REIT developed Return to Operations  ↗ 
action plans for our tenants to ensure their safe return 
to buildings amid the COVID-19 pandemic. These plans 
included measures such as:
Case Study
Enhanced Tenant 
Experience with Lane
Lane is a tenant experience platform for commercial office 
buildings. Headquartered in Toronto, Lane helps leading 
property owners and managers unlock the full value of 
their assets and deliver a superior experience for everyone at 
their properties. By bringing together the entire workplace 
ecosystem, the platform allows tenants to centrally 
access everything they need instantly, including building 
information, services, emergency notifications, software and 
amenities information. Our teams use Lane to improve our 
tenant’s experience by promoting community events such as 
yoga, guest speakers and giveaways. 
In addition to developing tenant-facing Return to 
Operations action plans, D.UN also took numerous 
measures behind the scenes to improve our building 
operations to meet the new health and safety demands of 
the pandemic. This included:
Creating building specific HVAC operating plans 
based on recommendations from Health Canada,  
the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 
The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and 
Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) and Building 
Owners and Manager’s Association Canada (BOMA)
Installing disinfecting ultraviolet lights on escalator 
handrails, elevator ventilation systems and building 
HVAC systems 
Piloting a Made-in-Canada robot that uses UV light to 
kill surface and airborne virus, bacteria, mold and flu 
spores in a room in 15 minutes.Aerial view of 20, 36 Toronto Street
Toronto, ON
Made-in-Canada UV Robot100 101
Dream Office REIT
Social
Case Study
Bay Street 
Repositioning
Dream Collection: Financial District
D.UN’s Bay Street repositioning program will enhance 
occupant health and well-being, plus elevate the tenant 
experience by curating amenities as part of one community. 
Though this holistic program, we are crafting stunning 
shared spaces in our lobbies, enhancing tenant engagement 
using the Lane app with activities including wellness events 
and yoga, and we are upgrading the buildings with features 
such as low-flow fixtures and new elevators. In the public 
realm we are creating a beautiful downtown alleyway 
parkette that offers our community of tenants a welcoming 
garden oasis and restaurant in a previously unusable space 
in the heart of Toronto’s Financial District.
Bay Street, Financial District
Toronto, ON102 103
Dream Office REIT
GovernanceDream Office REIT
Forward-looking Plans
Role Responsibility 
Compensation, Health & Environmental Committee Oversees sustainability at D.UN, monitors applicable laws and regulations 
with respect to health and safety, reviews the environmental state of real 
property owned by D.UN and assesses environmental risk exposure and 
management practices
Sustainability Committee Develops and implements sustainability initiatives, as well as monitors 
our sustainability performance. Reports to the Compensation, Health & 
Environmental Committee on a quarterly basis 
Chief Operating Officer Oversees the Sustainability Committee, provides an annual update to the 
Board on sustainability plans and performance
Vice President of Technical Services Ensures efficiency projects are integrated into our annual capital planning 
projects, manages the identification of new opportunities in our buildings
Sustainability Manager Oversees and manages portfolio sustainability initiatives including 
building certifications, energy, water and waste management and 
monitoring, as well as capital planning processes
Energy Manager Works with our property operations teams to manage energy and 
water consumption, makes recommendations for continuous efficiency 
improvements
GRESB
GRESB was established in 2009 by a group of large pension 
funds to access comparable and reliable data on the 
sustainability performance of their real asset investments. 
GRESB is now the leading sustainability benchmark for real 
estate and infrastructure investments across the world.
Learn more about GRESB here ↗Sustainability efforts at D.UN are managed by the following:
Compensation, Health & Environmental Committee
Robert Goodall
Member
Donald Charter
Chair
Karine MacIndoe
Member71% of D.UN Trustees are independent  
and 43% are women.
* University of Cambridge, 2014.GRESB Real Estate Assessment
Our participation will address increasing investor interest in 
comparable sustainability data, demonstrate our commitment 
to sustainability to our stakeholders and help us compare our 
sustainability performance to peers. Studies* have also linked 
GRESB score to improved financial performance for REITs, 
with a 1% increase in GRESB score corresponding to a 1.3% 
increase in return on assets and a 3.9% increase in return on 
equity.  
In preparation for this initiative, D.UN completed a 
comprehensive GRESB Diagnostics and Opportunity 
Assessment in 2020 with consultants, Quinn & Partners. We 
are using the results of this assessment to enhance our first 
GRESB submission.
Waste Audits 
Third-party waste audits are an important pillar of D.UN’s 
overall approach to waste management. Third-party audits 
of our waste streams provide a credible and strong base for our 
waste management initiatives and allow us to meet regulatory 
requirements. Next year we plan on undertaking value-added 
solutions to increase waste diversion including updating our 
signage and offering training to site teams and tenants on the 
best practices of waste, recycling and organics management 
to help improve diversion rates.In 2021, D.UN plans to participate in the Global 
Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB)  
Real Estate Assessment.Sustainability Working Groups 
In 2021, D.UN plans to launch four voluntary employee 
sustainability working groups on green property operations, 
tenant engagement, employee engagement and reporting 
and communication. Each working group will be tasked with 
developing their own goals and action plans and will work 
with our Sustainability Manager, Vice President of Technical 
Services and Chief Operating Officer to allocate support and 
resources. Our goal is that the groups will serve as an open 
forum for ideas that will help to drive D.UN’s sustainability 
performance to the next level. 
Smart Building Pilot 
In 2020 and 2021, we will continue our Smart Building Pilot 
project at 80 Richmond Street West in Toronto to reposition this 
80-year-old asset as a technological market leader. The pilot 
will involve adding a variety of technology features including 
an upgraded HVAC system, a new Building Automation System 
(BAS), Smart LED lighting, an upgraded tenant workplace 
experience app and more. 
The goals of this project include: making the workplace better 
than home, leading the technological revolution, future-
proofing our assets, maximizing long term value, and becoming 
a wellness leader. 
We are eager to report on the lessons learned from this pilot 
project and intend to use the insights as a blueprint for future 
integration of smart building technologies throughout our 
portfolio to improve sustainability performance and tenant 
experience. 
Leak Detection Technology
In 2021, we will begin a five year roll-out of water leak damage 
prevention systems at all sites across the GTA. This system 
pairs wireless leak detection devices with wireless water 
shutoff valves connected to a mobile app. The system allows 
our property management teams to be instantly notified of 
leaks and shut off water remotely. We are excited to take this 
step forward in modernizing our building systems to protect 
against costly water damage and increase the safety of our 
tenants as well as reduce our insurance premiums. 104 105
266
properties
95.1%
in-place and committed occupancy26.6 Million
square feet of Gross Leasable Area (GLA)
$3.1 billion
total assetsDream Group of Companies
Dream Industrial REIT (DIR.UN)
Dream Industrial REIT:  (TSX: DIR.UN), owns and operates a global portfolio of 
well-located, diversified industrial properties across North America and Europe. 
We have access to highly experienced, local investments and asset management 
platforms that have a proven track record of creating long-term value. Our 
strategy is to invest in high-quality assets and markets that provide stable cash 
flow and net asset value growth over the long-term to our unitholders. 
All figures as at September 30, 2020.
1602 Tricont Ave.
Whitby, ON106 107
Dream Industrial REIT
Key Accomplishments
Governance***Installed solar panels covering 81 7 ,000  sq. ft. 
(equivalent to 19 acres, or 14 football fields)  
and totalling 2,507,603* kilowatt-hours of 
renewable energy
11.3 million sq. ft. of interior lighting retrofits 
and 8.6 million  sq. ft. of exterior lighting in 
our buildings has been retrofitted with LED or T5 
lighting, to replace inefficient fluorescent lighting
6.8 million  sq. ft. of our portfolio is equipped with 
white roofs, which absorb less heat and reduce 
cooling costs and energy consumption
Integrated green cost recovery clauses in 100%  of 
new leases, which include energy efficiency-related 
capital improvementsCollected two carloads of snacks, school supplies, 
household products and gift cards for Ronald 
McDonald House Charities 
Volunteered at Moisson Laval food bank to support 
the local community
Prepared and served meals at Inn from the Cold 
in Calgary and Dixon House in Toronto. These 
charities provide support to individuals and 
families that are experiencing homelessness 
Participated in the Habitat for Humanity Women 
Build, which brings volunteers together to build 
stronger, safer communities 
Employees repelled down the edge of a high rise 
building to raise funds for the Make-A-Wish Rope 
for Hope charity event
Organized a food drive for the Veterans Food Bank 
of Calgary and supported the Calgary Drop in 
Centre 
63%  of employees and 52%  of managers are 
women** 
~$30,000  paid out for employee tuition and 
professional fees
75%  of Trustees  
are independent75+2525%  of Trustees  
are women25+75DIR.UN Highlights
Environmental Social
7730 American Way
Orlando, FloridaRenewable electricity generated by rooftop photovoltaic panels is provided by our solar operators at each site and is generally measured by a dedicated submeter or 
inverter which either feeds renewable power into the grid or, using a net metering approach, is used on-site.
Dream Industrial Management Corp. employees.
As at November 13, 2020.*
**
***108 109
Dream Industrial REIT
Our ESG Approach
6701 Financial Drive
Mississauga, ONOur sustainability strategy enables us 
to establish meaningful and realistic 
benchmarks, measure our progress and 
integrate our environmental and social 
obligations into the ways we manage our 
business and create value. 
DIR.UN aspires to be a market leader in sustainability. 
We have a responsibility to manage and mitigate our 
overall impact on the environment and we believe that an 
increasing focus on sustainability is imperative to creating 
long-term value for our stakeholders. 
Our approach to sustainability includes increasing energy 
efficiency throughout our portfolio, engaging tenants, 
lowering operational costs and incorporating energy 
management initiatives into our capital expenditures 
planning. 
Sustainability at DIR.UN is governed by policies covering 
all activities across the value chain including our Guide 
to Sustainable Building Operations, our Environmentally 
Preferable Purchasing Policy for operations, and 
our Tenant Sustainability Handbook and Occupant 
Environmental Communication program for customer 
relations.
For a full list of policies, please contact:  
industrialinfo@dream.ca  ↗.DIR.UN has installed  
enough solar panels 
to generate 2,507,603 
kilowatt-hours of renewable 
energy capacity.
45A & 45B West Wilmot St.
Richmond Hill, Ontario110 111
Dream Industrial REIT
Environmental
Climate Change 
Frequent and more extreme weather events can lead to higher insurance costs and interruptions to business continuity, potentially 
impacting lender appetite and asset valuation over time. DIR.UN is in the process of mapping all of our properties against a comprehensive 
database of climate-related and other high-impact extreme weather events. 
As part of our flood risk and catastrophic loss risk assessment conducted in 2019, we identified which properties in our portfolio are at 
risk of losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year flood risks. 
Water Management 
DIR.UN is committed to reducing water consumption in our properties through environmentally responsible decisions and a preventative 
maintenance program. Our Water Conservation Policy sets forth objectives that support this goal, including monitoring major water 
consuming equipment through building management systems, leak reporting through our tenant service program, routine inspections 
by staff, installing low flow water fixtures during washroom renovations and monitoring landscape irrigation using rain sensors and 
control timers. Our Calgary operations also utilize climate-controlled irrigation technology to optimize water usage.  
Case Study
Climate Controlled 
Water Management
We use climate-controlled irrigation at 42 of our sites 
in Calgary. The system uses real-time weather data 
from specialized water management weather stations to 
automatically adjust watering based on the best horticultural 
practice of deeper, less frequent root watering. In 2019 we 
saved 15,667,000 litres  of water, equivalent to the amount 
consumed annually by 68 households on average.
Sunridge Park
Calgary, AlbertaSustainable Developments
In 2019, we began integrating sustainable practices into our 
redevelopment and new development projects. This included 
reviewing our materials sourcing practices and seeking to 
reduce the GHG emissions throughout our value chain by 
buying locally.
Number of At-Risk Assets from Flooding*
50-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)100-year
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)200-year 
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)
DIR.UN - - 2 38,295 4 241,399 6432,059
*    Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA).
*    Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated in the figures in the other time categories.
Energy Efficiency
Sustainability initiatives that reduce resource intensity or 
increase building efficiency reduce costs for tenants and make 
our buildings more leasable. We focus on improving energy 
efficiency through lighting retrofit projects, on-site renewable 
power that offsets grid consumption and replacing traditional 
roofing with white, reflective roofs. Over the past several years, 
we have undertaken lighting retrofits that include replacing old, 
inefficient fluorescent lights with either T5 lighting or LED lights. 
As lighting is typically upgraded on tenant move-out we attempt 
to balance this initiative with our expected lease rollover.  As part of the asset management and investment processes, we 
also incorporate sustainability into our investment strategy as 
well as into our capital plans. Our detailed 10-year capital plans 
incorporate new energy management initiatives as properties 
are acquired.  
Lastly, we promote tenant energy efficiency by providing 
recommendations based on energy audits to help reduce 
consumption and costs. Typical energy audit recommendations 
include placing timers on chargers or forklifts, installing ‘smart’ 
thermostats and upgrading lighting to LED. Supplier Engagement 
Our major suppliers are landscapers, snow removal, HVAC 
services, roofers and small general contractors. We work with 
our suppliers to ensure we are using the most sustainable 
products and engaging in sustainable practices, for example 
by using low chemical ice melting products, ensuring our 
general contractors separate waste streams and replacing 
HVAC equipment with the latest eco- friendly refrigerants.  
300 Orenda Road
Brampton, Ontario112 113
Dream Industrial REIT
Environmental
Case Study
LEED Silver Asset 
in Montreal 
DIR.UN continues to seek properties with sustainable 
attributes as a key component of our investment criteria. 
We own a LEED Silver Certified building located in Saint-
Laurent, Quebec. The sustainable features of the building 
include a state-of-the-art geothermal heating and cooling 
system, energy efficient lighting with occupancy sensors and 
sealed windows in the warehouse that reduce the need for 
artificial light and enhance the employee experience.
Our tenant distributes premium cycling brands. The 
sustainable aspects of the building resonate with their key 
corporate objectives, to promote a green and healthy lifestyle  
for their employees and clients.
10555 Henri-Bourassa Ouest
St-Laurent , Québec
Case Study
BOMA Gold 
Certification
We coordinated with our tenant to achieve and maintain 
BOMA GOLD certification on a 350,000 sq. ft. fully 
integrated manufacturing facility in Western Canada. 
Sustainable aspects of this well-constructed building include 
high efficiency roof top units, a direct fired heating and 
ventilating system, energy efficient windows and lighting 
and tenant programs that incorporate waste reduction and 
diversion, environmental purchasing and water conservation.
Achieving BOMA GOLD Certification was an important 
benchmark for our tenant, a manufacturer of high-quality 
windows and doors.  The operations of the facility align 
with their corporate commitment to meet and exceed energy 
efficiency requirements in their products, and pass along 
energy savings to their customers. 
7140 40th Street SE
Calgary, Alberta
Case Study
Renewable Energy 
in the Netherlands
In 2020 we secured a subsidy from the Dutch Government 
to incentivize the production of renewable energy. We are 
actively investigating the installation of 40,000 solar panels 
on 19 buildings (1,561,951 sq. ft.) located in the Netherlands, 
which are estimated to generate up to 12 million kilowatt-
hours of sustainable energy per year. Through the subsidy 
the government will guarantee a set price per kilowatt-hour 
for a period of 15 years.
12-16 Het Sterrenbeeld
Den Bosch, Netherlands
Case Study
Lighting Upgrades 
In our North American portfolio, we have upgraded 48% 
of the interior lighting with T5 or LED lighting, and 37% 
of the exterior lighting on our buildings. Upgraded lighting 
is brighter, more efficient and generates energy savings for 
our tenants.114 115
Dream Industrial REIT
Environmental
Working Together 
on Renewable 
Installation
When evaluating renewable energy or other capital upgrade 
investment decisions, we engage with tenants to get their 
feedback and discuss the possibilities of capital contributions 
or cost-sharing agreements, such as extended leases. We are 
proud to work together to meet joint sustainability goals 
and eager to assist tenants when specific capital upgrade 
requests are made.
2–20 Exportweg
Waddinxveen, Netherlands
Case Study
Glenmore 
Centre Beehive
In the fall of 2020, DIR.UN introduced a beehive installation 
at Glenmore Park in Calgary. We have partnered with a 
beekeeper who maintains the hive and harvests its honey. 
The beehive is a small way we contribute to supporting 
biodiversity at the site, while offering a unique tenant 
engagement opportunity, as we are able to offer “Meet the 
Bees” workshops and share bottles of harvested honey with 
our tenants.
Case Study
Sustainable Roofs
When our roofs approach the end of their useful life we 
evaluate opportunities to implement a more sustainable 
roofing system. In 2019 we replaced a 20 year old roof 
on a 472,000 sq.ft. building with a TPO (Thermoplastic 
Polyolefin) white membrane roof system. TPO is very energy 
efficient as it reduces cooling costs due to UV resistance.
860 Marine Drive
Charlotte, NC116 117
New Hires and Turnover Rates*Dream Industrial REIT
Social
Our People
DIR.UN’s success as an organization comes from our strong 
and diverse workforce. Our employees possess expertise in 
a wide variety of areas that benefit our business, from real 
estate management and development to capital markets, 
risk, insurance and many more. 
Our people come from a wide range of backgrounds and 
places, bringing many valuable skills and perspectives to 
our team. The people we hire all have one thing in common: 
they share our company values and contribute to our 
company culture. Consistent with our values, 
we are very proud to have 
a strong female presence in 
our workforce. 63%  of our 
employees and 52%  of our 
managers are women. 
Dream Industrial employees in the community.
Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Industrial REIT activities and excludes employees on unpaid leave of absences (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, 
parental leave) and interns. Turnover rate is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2019. 
Employee of Dream Advisors Netherlands.Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Industrial REIT activities and excludes employees on unpaid leave of absences (e.g. permanent disability, long-
term disability, parental leave) and interns.
Numbers represented as total headcount, not full time equivalent.
Includes permanent part-time employees.
Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week. Employees(1) (2)Total Male Female Central Canada Western Canada
Permanent(3)69 27 42 46 23
Contract 6 1 5 6 -
Full-time(4)75 28 47 52 23
Part-time - - - - -DIR.UN - Employee Summary
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)Gender Breakdown
48+52 66+3437% Male37+6363% FemaleEmployees* Managers
48% Male52% FemaleExecutive Team**
66% Male34% Female75 total employees
Includes employees at all levels.
DIR.UN’s executive team is accounted for under Dream Asset Management Corporation, however the CFO of DIR.UN is female, while the CEO and COO are male.
*
**Total Male FemaleAge
under 30 Age 
30-50Age 
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
CanadaUnited 
States Europe
New hires 10 3 7 3 5 2 7 2 - 1**
Voluntary 
turnover rate3.7% 1.2% 2.5% 0% 3.7% 0% 1.2% 2.5% - -
*
**
118 119
Tenant Service 
Our management team and staff are committed to providing customer service 
excellence and continually improving the quality of our services through efficient 
property management, value-added services for our tenants and capital improvements 
to our assets. Our top priority is providing a physical environment that contributes to 
the well-being of our tenants and the success of their businesses. An important part 
of our success is our vertically integrated property management operations which 
includes tenant services and property operations, lease administration, accounting 
and reporting and in-house construction management.Dream Industrial REIT
Social
Our top priority is providing  
a physical environment that 
contributes to the well-being  
of our tenants and the success 
of their businesses.
650 Rue Bergeron
Drummondville, QC4470 Southpoint Drive
Memphis, TNWe also provide tenants with a web-enabled 
response system, dreamplus, that puts them in 
control of their needs with the ability to submit 
and monitor service requests on-line.120 121
Dream Industrial REIT
Governance
Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee Oversight of sustainability at DIR.UN
Chief Operating Officer Oversight of DIR.UN sustainability working groups 
Sustainability working groupsAdvance sustainability initiatives and gather sustainability performance 
data Sustainability at DIR.UN is managed by the following: 
J. Michael Knowlton
Member
Ben Mulroney
Chair
Vicky Schiff
MemberGovernance, Compensation & Environmental Committee
Environmental, Social Governance (ESG) Working Group 
We have established an ESG working group that is comprised of regional portfolio managers, operations leads, asset management and 
our sustainability team. The working group is tasked with advancing sustainability initiatives and gathering sustainability performance 
data. The working group is a collaborative initiative that enables regional teams to share and exchange cross-continental insights, best 
practices and innovations. Specialized breakout teams can be assembled to explore specific projects and capitalize on the deep level 
of expertise available from the group members. The working group reports to the Chief Operating Officer on a monthly basis. 75% of DIR.UN Trustees are independent  
and 25% are women.Dream Industrial REIT
Social
Case Study
Partnering with Tenants  
and Employees for 
Ronald McDonald 
House Charities 
Ronald McDonald House Charities plays a vital role in 
helping keep families together while their sick child is treated 
at a nearby hospital. DIR.UN’s charity team collected two 
carloads of snacks, school supplies and household products, 
as well as gift cards totalling over $500 from employees, 
contractors, tenants and family members for donations.122 123
In 2020, we have developed  a new sustainability framework for DIR.UN 
which includes a formalized strategy and set of objectives. The framework 
provides overarching guidance as we define our processes  for improved data 
collection, establish measurable and achievable targets and articulate our 
environmental policy and strategy.
Our priorities for data collection include:
 — Energy and water usage
 — Waste diversion
 — Climate risk management
 — Materials sourcing performance
 — Quantifying our investments in energy saving measures, such as LED 
retrofits and solar panel installations
We will also be developing policies on:
 — Capital investments
 — Biodiversity
 — Green building certifications
 — Investment criteria
 — Waste management 
 — Sustainable sourcing
 — New development and refurbishment
We also plan to explore sustainable financing options
We are pursuing investments in clean power
Looking forward, DIR.UN is dedicated to following through on our commitment 
to sustainable responsibility.  Our focus on data collection will empower us to 
evaluate our performance and establish impactful targets.  We will explore 
and pursue sustainable, cost-effective opportunities including clean power 
and green sources of financing.  The drafting of our policies will be built on 
recognition that sustainability is fundamental to how we do business and is 
a key driver of value for our stakeholders.Dream Industrial REIT
Forward-looking Plans
Case Study
European Energy 
Performance 
Certificates
The Dutch government rates building energy performance 
with a labelling system that is governed by the European 
Union, to promote energy efficiency and encourage the 
use of renewable resources. In the Netherlands, office 
buildings will be required to achieve a rating of “C” or 
higher by 2023. Currently 86% of the office premises 
within our industrial portfolio in the Netherlands has a 
rating of “C” or higher. Although there is currently no 
rating requirement for industrial premises, we will work 
to improve the energy performance of our buildings to 
align with tenant needs as they renew, or to improve the 
efficiency of space that is available for lease.
2-20 Exportweg
Waddinxveen, Netherlands124 125
Standard Section Page
GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Interview with our leadership 6
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Reporting Boundaries 4
GRI 102-50 Reporting period Reporting Boundaries 4
GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Reporting Boundaries 4
GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Reporting Boundaries 4
GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Dream Overview 10
GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Dream Overview 10
GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Dream Overview 10
GRI 102-4 Location of operations Dream Overview 10
GRI 102-6 Markets served Dream Overview 10
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Dream Overview 10
GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Dream Overview 11
GRI102-8 Information on employees and other workers Dream Overview 10
GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Stakeholder Engagement 16, 17
GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 16, 17
GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 16, 17
GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement 16, 17
GRI 102-18 Governance structure Governance & Risk 20
GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance & Risk 20
GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Governance & Risk 22
TCFD Risk Management A: Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-
related risksGovernance & Risk 23,24
TCFD Risk Management B: Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risk Governance & Risk 23,24
TCFD Risk Management C: Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-
related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management Governance & Risk 23,24
TCFD Governance A: Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities Governance & Risk 23,24
TCFD Governance B: Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and 
opportunitiesGovernance & Risk 23,24Standard Section Page
GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest Business Ethics 25
GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnoverEmployee Development and 
Engagement28
GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employeesEmployee Development and 
Engagement29
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employeesDiversity, Inclusion & 
Advancement33
GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 
number of work-related fatalitiesHealth & Safety 35
GRI 102-19 Delegating authority DRM Governance 66
GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics DRM Governance 66
SASB IF-RE-000.A Number of assets DRM Overview 52
SASB IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area  NA For Dream DRM Overview 41
SASB: IF0402-09 Discussion of water management risks and description of strategies and practices to 
mitigate those risksDRM Environmental 58
SASB: IF0402-14 Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of systematic portfolio 
exposure, and strategies for mitigating risksDRM Environmental 58
SASB IF-RE-130a.5 Description of energy management DRM Environmental 58
SASB IF-RE-140a.4 Description of water management DRM Environmental 58
SASB IF-RE-450a.2 Description of climate change risk exposure and mitigation DRM Environmental 58
TCFD Metrics and Targets A - Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with 
strategy and risk management processesDRM Environmental 58Standards References
Standards References: GRI, SASB, TCFD
GRI 102-19 Delegating authority MPCT.UN Governance 84
GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics MPCT.UN Governance 84
SASB IF-RE-000.A Number of assets MPCT.UN Overview 68
SASB IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area MPCT.UN Overview 68
SASB IF-RE-000.D Average occupancy rate MPCT.UN Overview 68126 127
Standard Section Page
SASB IF-RE-450a.2 Description of climate change risk exposure and mitigation D.UN Scorecard 92
SASB IF-RE-140a.2 Total water consumption D.UN Scorecard 92
SASB IF-RE-130a.2 Total energy consumption D.UN Environmental 94
TCFD Metrics and Targets A - Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with 
strategy and risk management processesD.UN Scorecard 92
TCFD Metrics and Targets B - Disclose scope 1,2 and if appropriate, 3 GHG emissions and related risks D.UN Scorecard 92
TCFD Metrics and Targets C - Describe targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities 
and performance against targetsD.UN Scorecard 92
GRI 102-19 Delegating authority DIR.UN Governance 121
GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics DIR.UN Governance 121
SASB IF-RE-000.A Number of assets DIR.UN Overview 104
SASB IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area DIR.UN Overview 104
SASB IF-RE-000.D Average occupancy rate DIR.UN Overview 104
SASB: IF0402-09 Discussion of water management risks and description of strategies and practices to 
mitigate those risksDIR.UN Environmental 111
SASB: IF0402-14 Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of systematic portfolio 
exposure, and strategies for mitigating risksDIR.UN Environmental 111
SASB IF-RE-130a.5 Description of energy management DIR.UN Environmental 110
SASB IF-RE-140a.4 Description of water management DIR.UN Environmental 111
SASB IF-RE-450a.2 Description of climate change risk exposure and mitigation DIR.UN Environmental 111
TCFD Metrics and Targets A - Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with 
strategy and risk management processesDIR.UN Environmental 111Standards References
Standards References: GRI, SASB, TCFD
Standard Section Page
SASB: IF0402-09 Discussion of water management risks and description of strategies and practices to 
mitigate those risksMPCT.UN Environmental 74, 75
SASB: IF0402-14 Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of systematic portfolio 
exposure, and strategies for mitigating risksMPCT.UN Environmental 74, 75
SASB IF-RE-130a.5 Description of energy management MPCT.UN Environmental 74, 75
SASB IF-RE-140a.4 Description of water management MPCT.UN Environmental 74, 75
SASB IF-RE-450a.2 Description of climate change risk exposure and mitigation MPCT.UN Environmental 74, 75
TCFD Metrics and Targets A - Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with 
strategy and risk management processesMPCT.UN Environmental 74, 75
GRI 102-19 Delegating authority D.UN Governance 102
GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics D.UN Governance 102
GRI 302 Energy D.UN Scorecard 92
GRI 303 Water D.UN Scorecard 92
GRI 305 Emissions D.UN Scorecard 92
SASB IF-RE-000.A Number of assets D.UN Overview 86
SASB IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area D.UN Overview 86
SASB IF-RE-000.D Average occupancy rate D.UN Overview 86
SASB: IF0402-09 Discussion of water management risks and description of strategies and practices to 
mitigate those risksD.UN Environmental 94, 95
SASB: IF0402-14 Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of systematic portfolio 
exposure, and strategies for mitigating risksD.UN Environmental 94, 95
SASB IF-RE-130a.5 Description of energy management D.UN Environmental 93
SASB IF-RE-140a.4 Description of water management D.UN Environmental 94, 95
SASB IF-RE-410a.3 Description on managing tenant sustainability impacts D.UN Environmental 94128 129
Forward-looking Information
Certain information in this Sustainability Report may constitute “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable securities legislation. 
Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the objectives of Dream Unlimited, Dream Office, Dream Industrial and 
Dream Impact (collectively, the “Dream Entities”) and strategies to achieve such objectives; statements relating to the sustainability goals of each of 
the Dream Entities; and statements relating to the environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) initiatives, metrics and targets for each of the Dream 
Entities. Such statements also include: (i) with respect to Dream Office, its focus on reducing resource consumption and improving building efficien -
cies, its goal of achieving certain 2025 environmental targets (including 10% total reduction of energy consumption, 10% total reduction of emissions 
and 10% total reduction in water consumption; 75% average water diversion rate across the portfolio and achieving green building certifications for 
100% of its portfolio), and its goal to achieving its other social and governance targets by 2025; its intentions to participate in the GRESB real estate 
assessment in 2021; its intentions to reduce energy use, water use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as well as to divert waste to benefit the 
environment and its tenants; (ii) with respect to Dream Industrial, its intention to increase the environmental efficiency of its portfolio through operating 
initiatives and tenant engagement, its intention to improve data collection, its plans to quantify its energy and water usage, waste diversion, climate 
risk management, materials for sourcing performance and to quantify investments in energy saving measures; its intentions to develop sustainability 
policies and its plans to explore sustainable financing options and to further pursue investments in clean power; and (iii) with respect to Dream Unlim -
ited and Dream Impact, their focus on developing best in class communities that meet or exceed green building standards and developing affordable 
and inclusive housing; Dream Impact’s intentions to formalize its framework for impact reporting, to outline impact investment targets and intentions to 
report on impact performance annually; Dream Unlimited’s increased focus on impact investing; and Dream Unlimited’s commitment to using energy 
in an efficient, cost-effective and environmentally responsible manner, by benchmarking energy use at all facilities, meeting energy reduction targets 
and focusing on education measures regarding energy conservation.
Forward-looking information generally can be identified by words such as “outlook”, “objective”, “may”, “will”, “would”, “expect”, “intend”, “estimate”, 
“anticipate”, “believe”, “should”, “could”, “likely”, “plan”, “project”, “forecast”, “budget” or “continue” or similar expressions suggesting future outcomes 
or events. Forward-looking information is based on a number of assumptions and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which 
are beyond the Dream Entities’ respective control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those disclosed in or implied by such 
forward-looking information. The assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect, include, but are not limited to, the various assumptions for the re -
spective Dream Entities set forth herein as well as the following assumptions: general and local economic and business conditions; the real estate 
market in general; the impact of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19)  pandemic on the Dream Entities; employment levels; the ability of each Dream 
Entity and its respective tenants to access government programs; regulatory risks and the regulatory environment; environmental risks; consumer 
confidence; the financial condition of tenants and borrowers; ability to sell investment properties at a price that reflects fair value; leasing risks; ability 
to complete accretive acquisitions; interest and mortgage rates; the development, construction and operation of real estate projects on anticipated 
terms; that no unforeseen changes in the legislative and operating framework for the Dream Entities’ respective businesses will occur; that each of 
the Dream Entities will meet its respective future objectives, priorities and growth targets; that each of the Dream Entities will receive the licenses, 
permits or approvals necessary in connection with its respective projects; that each of the Dream Entities will have access to adequate capital to 
fund its respective future projects, plans and any potential future acquisitions; that each of the Dream Entities’ future projects and plans will proceed 
as anticipated; that each of the Dream Entities are able to identify high-quality investment opportunities; that each of the Dream Entities find suitable 
partners with which to enter into joint ventures or partnerships; that each of the Dream Entities do not incur any material environmental liabilities; and 
that future market, demographic and economic conditions will occur as expected.
Although the forward-looking statements contained in this Sustainability Report are based on what the Dream Entities believe are reasonable 
assumptions, there can be no assurance that actual results will be consistent with these forward-looking statements. Factors or risks that could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to: general 
economic conditions; uncertainties surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the Dream Entities; employment 
levels; regulatory risks and changes to the regulatory environment; interest and mortgage rates and regulations; environmental risks; consumer 
confidence; seasonality; adverse weather conditions; reliance on key clients and personnel and competition; timely leasing of vacant space and 
re-leasing of occupied space upon expiry; local real estate conditions; dependence on tenants’ and borrowers’ financial condition; costs to complete 
development activities; the uncertainties of acquisition activity and ability to integrate acquisitions; ability to execute on strategic plans and meet 
financial obligations;  interest rates; availability of equity and debt financing; foreign exchange fluctuations; and other risks and factors described from 
time to time in the latest Annual Reports, Annual Information Forms and Management’s Discussion and Analyses of the applicable Dream Entities and 
other documents filed by the Dream Entities with the securities regulatory authorities in Canada, which are available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. 
All forward-looking information in this Sustainability Report speaks as of December 14, 2020. The Dream Entities do not undertake to update any 
obligation to update any such forward-looking information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by 
applicable law.