Bold ideas for 
better communities
2020-2021 Sustainability ReportSustainability Report
Table of Contents 
Introduction
About This Report 3
Letter from Chief  
Responsible Officer  4
Letter from Head of  Sustainability and ESG5
Dream Overview 6
Sustainability Journey 8
ESG Framework 9
Stakeholder Engagement 12ESG at Dream
Governance and Risk 13Governance 14
Risk Management 17
Business Ethics 19
Social 20
Employee Engagement 
and Development22
Diversity, Inclusion and Advancement25
Health and Safety 29
Volunteering and Giving 31ESG at DIR.UN
Dream Industrial REIT 34
Overview 34
Highlights 35
Scorecard 36
Our Approach 38
Environmental 40
Social 49
Governance 52
Appendices
Supplemental Disclosures 57
www.dream.ca↗For more information on 
Sustainability at Dream, please visit our website.
2The content of this report was defined through 
engagement with Dream’s stakeholders, as well as by 
specific commercial real estate sustainability standards 
and Dream’s sustainability programs and initiatives. 
This report has been approved by the Chief Responsible 
Officer of Dream Unlimited Corp., and Chief Executive 
Officers of Dream Industrial REIT and Dream Office REIT 
as well as the Chief Financial Officers for each entity. In 
addition, it has been approved by the Chief Operating 
Officers of Dream Office REIT and Dream Industrial REIT.  
The annual Sustainability Report is prefaced by the 
common Dream group section and then followed by 
individual sections for each entity. The following sections 
reflect the Dream group of companies and their common 
policies, strategies, performance and initiatives: Dream 
Overview, Sustainability Journey, ESG Framework, 
Stakeholder Engagement, Governance & Risk, and Social.
The remaining sections of the report reflect entity-specific 
practices and performance. The intended audiences of 
this report are tenants and residents, investors, research 
analysts, communities, employees, our partners, as well 
as municipalities and governments in locations where 
Dream operates.Introduction
About this Report
Reporting Standards
This report has been prepared with references to the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. It also 
includes indicators from the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Real Estate Standard and 
addresses the recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). These 
standards are referenced in the reference tables starting 
at the end of this document.Report Verification
Environmental data disclosed by D.UN and MPCT.UN in 
this report has been independently verified by Quinn 
& Partners, who performed limited verification on 
selected GHG emissions, energy, water and waste data 
in accordance with ISO 14064-3. In this report, the 
symbol indicates verified information. A copy of the 
verification statement can be found here. ↗
Contact
For any questions or feedback regarding this report,  
please contact: 
Sustainability & ESG at sustainabilityandesg@dream.ca ↗Reporting Boundaries
All information and performance data contained in this 
report reflects the period from January 1 to December 31, 
2020, unless otherwise stated. All amounts are reported 
in Canadian dollars. In some places we may highlight a 
2021 initiative and will provide more detailed information 
on these initiatives in next year’s sustainability report, 
to be released in 2022. Where there have been 
changes in measurement methods or restatements of 
information from the 2019 Sustainability Report ↗, we 
have identified these in a footnote to describe the change. 
Dream published its first Sustainability Report in 2015, 
and has subsequently disclosed sustainability information 
in the annual reports of its public entities since 2017. In 
2019, we released a Sustainability Report focusing on the 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance 
and practices for the Dream group of companies as well 
as for each Dream entity. The 2019 Sustainability Report was 
released in November 2020. The 2020-2021 Sustainability 
Report presents Dream’s new ESG Framework and provides an 
update on Dream’s sustainability performance, practices 
and initiatives.
The Dream group  
of companies consist of 
the following:The Dream group of companies, which is collectively 
referred to as "Dream", consist of the following:  
Dream Unlimited Corp. (TSX: DRM)  
("DRM") or ("Dream Unlimited") 
Dream Impact Trust (TSX: MPCT.UN)  
("MPCT.UN") or ("Dream Impact") 
Dream Office REIT (TSX:D.UN)  
("D.UN") or ("Dream Office") 
Dream Industrial REIT (TSX:DIR.UN)  
("DIR.UN") or ("Dream Industrial")
Dream Unlimited Corp.
TSX: DRM2020 Annual Report ↗
Website  ↗Dream Impact Trust 
TSX: MPCT.UN2020 Annual Report ↗
Website  ↗Dream Office REIT 
TSX: D.UN2020 Annual Report ↗
Website  ↗Dream Industrial REIT 
TSX: DIR.UN2020 Annual Report ↗
Website  ↗
* Dream Impact Trust’s legal name is Dream Impact Master GP Inc. 3Chief Responsible Officer's Message
At Dream, we have always embraced impact investing and 
sustainability. Our mission is to create positive environmental 
and social results, alongside strong financial returns. 
We also know that good Environmental, Social and Governance practices are 
necessary to meet the needs of investors and manage risk in our business. 
We are building better communities because they are environmentally 
sustainable, inclusive and improve the lives of our tenants, communities, 
partners and employees, which is an integral part of who we are and how we 
do business.
In addition to being the right thing, sustainability is a part of our day-to-day 
business and we actively work to improve the places where we invest, develop 
and operate with the goal of leaving them better than we found them. Our 
successes can be seen in the revitalization of our communities such as 
Toronto’s Distillery District, Zibi, West Don Lands and Brightwater. We have 
pursued social and environmental results with our tenants by offering green 
leases, creating walkable communities with parks and green spaces, and 
operating energy and water efficient buildings.
At Dream, we are using our core business to address broader social 
and environmental issues and we have been able to support Canada’s 
commitment to affordable housing, climate change and social inclusion. 
We have set significant attainable and affordable housing targets in our 
development projects at Zibi, Canary District, and West Don Lands. We are 
making progress on Zibi’s goal of being 100% powered by its innovative, 
zero carbon District Energy System by 2025. We continue to support and 
celebrate the Indigenous community through the Indigenous Hub project in 
Canary District and within the Zibi community. As community builders, we 
want to ensure a high quality of living, resource efficient assets, safe and 
well-paid jobs, and contribute to local supply chains and enterprises.
In 2020, Dream became a signatory to the International Finance Corporation’s 
Operating Principles for Impact Management and over the past year we 
have worked diligently to develop our impact investing approach while also 
achieving market returns. We now have the tools to better measure and 
communicate our positive environmental and social results that we generate 
together with financial returns to our investors. We invest with intent and are 
focused on the future impacts we can create beyond the typical development 
projects. Our impact investing approach has shown us where we have the 
greatest opportunity to maximize our impact: Environmental Sustainability 
and Resilience, Affordable and Attainable Housing and Inclusive Communities.The Dream group of companies, including Dream Unlimited, Dream Office 
REIT, Dream Industrial REIT and Dream Impact Trust, continue to demonstrate 
leadership in creating a better future world. 
We are proud to announce that the Dream group of companies has set an 
ambitious and industry leading goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions 
by 2035. As part of our Environmental Sustainability and Resilience impact 
vertical, we are applying our rigorous impact management system to hold 
ourselves accountable and strive for transparent, continued improvement. 
Over the next year, we will deliver a road-map that outlines how we will reach 
net zero by 2035. We also recently announced $136.6 million in funding 
from the Canada Infrastructure Bank, which will significantly support our 
transition to net zero.
We have also committed to the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative, which sets 
targets of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050; however, at Dream 
we are going to go further, faster. We are committing to net zero by 2035 
because we need to take steps now, not later. Our teams are motivated and 
understand the sense of urgency to find solutions.
We are very proud to unveil a new Social Procurement Strategy that is one 
of the most ambitious in Canada. We seek to leverage the money we spend 
in developing and managing our real estate to create business opportunities 
and jobs for both equity-seeking groups and local or independent businesses. 
In the communities we build, we use our impact principles to build 
communities that are safe, diverse and attainable.
Our goal has always been to do great work. Our people feel empowered, 
fulfilled and are proud of our work. We have a strong track record of building 
great careers and we are very proud of the many alumni that have gone on to 
be leaders in the industry and continue to stay connected with Dream.
The events of the past years have impacted the world profoundly. Throughout 
this time, we have been focused on running a great business and having a 
positive impact on people’s lives.
Sincerely, 
Michael Cooper
Chief Responsible Officer
Dream Unlimited Corp.
4Head of Sustainability and ESG Letter
In our 2020-2021 Sustainability Report, Dream is proud 
to show that we’ve accomplished a lot and significantly 
advanced our impact, sustainability and ESG mandates. 
Building on our well received 2019 Sustainability Report, we've advanced our 
practices to develop greater and more detailed data collection, best in class 
policies and standards, and more ambitious goals. We believe that a solid 
management approach to ESG is the foundation for good business practices 
and our impact investing platform. 
In 2021, we formalized our ESG Framework to integrate ESG into our 
business and provide support for our mission to Build Better Communities 
– communities that are sustainable, inclusive and improve people’s lives. As 
you will see in this report, the ESG Framework sets the direction for all Dream 
entities to continue our leadership by identifying and elevating our key ESG 
priorities. It includes elements that are common to all entities, but is also 
customized to meet the ESG goals and needs of each individual entity.  
Our ESG Framework centres around four core pillars which capture important 
value creation opportunities and responsible business practices:
Creating better places 
Being future ready 
Fostering strong relationships 
Ensuring operational excellence 
With our ESG Framework in place, we have guiding principles for our 
businesses and employees to focus our innovation and energy. 
We are pleased to announce that Dream has set new, industry leading net 
zero greenhouse gas emission (“net zero”) goals for each Dream entity: 
DRM, MPCT.UN and D.UN have committed to being net zero by 2035 for operations 
and new developments, including Scope 1, 2 and select Scope 3 emissions 
DIR.UN has committed to being net zero by 2035 for operations including Scope 
1 and 2 and Net Zero by 2050 for select Scope 3 emissions Reaching net zero is not simple, and we understand that it goes beyond one 
commitment. To support our net zero commitments, we commit to increased 
measurement and verification of our greenhouse gas emissions, alignment 
with leading standards and organizations, increased transparency in our 
reporting, and increased partnership in working with our stakeholders 
in government, utilities, our supply chain, employees and our tenants. As 
part of our effort to be leaders in the transition to the low carbon future we 
will continually monitor and assess the applicability of renewable energy 
generation opportunities.  
In addition, we have taken significant steps to show our commitment to 
transparency and accountability in our business. As such, Dream Unlimited, 
on behalf of the Dream group of companies, has joined the Net Zero Asset 
Managers (NZAM) initiative in November, which represents asset managers 
around the world aligned with net zero targets of 2050 or sooner. The 
initiative covers 220 signatories and US$57.4 trillion AUM, of which Dream is 
one of the first Canadian companies to join.  
Furthermore, Dream Unlimited, on behalf of the Dream group of companies, 
has signed onto the United Nations’ Principles for Responsible Investment (UN 
PRI)↗ – an international network of investors working together to implement 
six key principles to ensure a sustainable global financial system. Each 
Dream entity has become an official supporter of the Task Force on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ↗, chaired by Michael R. Bloomberg. 
Together with our net zero by 2035 commitment, our commitments to NZAM, 
UN PRI and TCFD contribute to our comprehensive and rigorous impact and 
ESG management system.  
Over the next five years, our focus will be to take meaningful and thoughtful 
steps to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by setting interim 
reduction targets and focusing on measuring our Scope 3 emissions including 
emissions from downstream leased assets and business travel.
We hope you find this report informative, educational, and inspiring as we 
continue on our impact, sustainability and ESG evolution.
Sincerely,
Lee Hodgkinson
Head of Sustainability & Technical Services
Dream Unlimited Corp.
5Dream Overview
Dream is an asset manager, owner and developer of real estate. Founded in 1994 with a 
vision to revolutionize the way people live and work, Dream is one of Canada’s leading 
real estate companies, with over $13 billion in assets under management amongst its four 
publicly listed entities, private funds and institutional partnerships.$13 billion
In assets under management*
39.8 million
sq.ft. of industrial Gross Leasable Area 
(GLA) in DIR.UN*23,810
condominium and purpose-built rental 
units in the Dream group portfolio 
(including development pipeline)*
5.5 million
sq.ft. of office GLA in D.UN*
476
total employees11.7 million
sq.ft. of commercial / retail GLA across 
the Dream group portfolio*Across the Dream group of companies we have:
At Dream, our employees are our most valuable asset and 
consist of the following:
(1) Includes only employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, Dream Industrial Management Corp.,
Dream Office Management Corp. and Dream Industrial Europe Advisors Cooperatieve U.A. Does not include employees 
at Dream recreational properties, employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, 
parental leave) or interns.   
(2) Numbers represented as total headcount, not full-time equivalent. 
(3) Includes permanent part-time employees. 
(4) Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week.Number of Employees(1)(2)Men Women Total
Permanent(3)252 224 476
Contract 6 8 14
Full-time(4)255 231 486
Part-time 3 1 445%
of managers are women47%
of employees are women30%
of executives are women*As of September 30, 2021. 
6Introduction
Dream Group of Companies
Dream Office REIT
TSX: D.UNDream Industrial REIT
TSX: DIR.UN
Dream Unlimited Corp. 
TSX: DRM
Dream Impact Trust
TSX: MPCT.UNRecurring Income
Stabilized Income 
Generating AssetsAsset Management & 
Equity Ownership in 
Dream Office REITDevelopment
Urban Development 
Toronto & OttawaWestern Canada 
Community 
DevelopmentDream
Dream takes an innovative and bold 
approach to ESG and impact investing, 
continuously challenging ourselves and  
others to do more.
Headquartered in Toronto, Canada, Dream is responsible 
for some of Canada’s most iconic and transformational 
projects. We invest with purpose, embracing creativity, 
passion and innovation to deliver high returns, while doing 
good for the communities and the world around us.  
We proudly participate as members of several industry 
associations including:
Building Owners and Managers Association  
(BOMA) Canada 
REALPAC 
International Council of Shopping Centres (ICSC) 
Building Industry and Land Development Association (BILD) 
Commercial Real Estate Development Association (NAIOP) 
Local Business Improvement Associations  
Urban Land Institute (ULI) 
Catalyst member of the Canadian Green Building  
Council (CaGBC) 
European Public Real Estate Association (EPRA) 
RECA – Real Estate Council of Alberta
SREC – Saskatchewan Real Estate Council 
RECO – Real Estate Council of OntarioDream's Private 
Asset Management 
Business
7Introduction
Sustainability Journey 
Dream has integrated sustainability into the way we conduct business for over a decade. 
We are proud of our track record of environmental, social and governance initiatives, 
and look forward to sharing our progress with you on the journey ahead. 
2004
DRM formed a partnership to invest, 
improve and revitalize Toronto’s Distillery 
District community, transforming 40 heritage 
buildings into a landmark destination and 
creating a cultural anchor in the city’s East end2007
DRM launched a $350M fund exclusively 
focused on renewable energy
2011
D.UN began measuring greenhouse gas 
emissions, energy and water consumption 
and set four-year targets
DRM was selected to develop the LEED Gold 
Pan/Parapan AM Athletes Village, inclusive 
of affordable and student housing. The 
project won numerous awards including 
the 2014 Building Industry and Land 
Development Association (BILD) Community 
of the Year2013
DRM became the first TSX-listed company to 
have a female majority Board2014
DIR.UN began its rooftop solar program
DRM invested in Zibi (Gatineau) to create 
Canada’s most sustainable master-planned 
community
2014
Dream formalized diversity policies for  
each entity
Dream established a Sustainability 
Executive Committee to oversee and 
embed sustainability in key business areas, 
including property operations, employee 
engagement and communications2018
DRM and MPCT.UN (formerly Dream Hard 
Asset Alternatives Trust) were selected to 
deliver the West Don Lands project, building 
600+ affordable housing units in a mixed-
income community
2018
D.UN and DRM formed Alate Partners to 
invest in innovative real estate solutions2020
Dream Hard Asset Alternatives Trust (DRA.
UN) changed name to Dream Impact Trust 
(MPCT.UN), focusing on impact investing
DRM became a signatory to the Operating 
Principles for Impact Management and 
a member of the Global Impact Investing 
Network
2015
Michael Cooper, Chief Executive Officer, 
changed title to Chief Responsible Officer
Dream published its first Sustainability Report2017
DRM completed the transformation of 
the Broadview Hotel, creating a beautiful 
landmark and arts and culture destination 
for the vibrant Riverside community 2021
MPCT.UN published inaugural Impact Report and 
Disclosure Statement 
Dream developed ESG framework to drive and 
unite ESG initiatives across the entities
D.UN and MPCT.UN participated in the Global 
Real Estate Sustainable Benchmark (GRESB) for 
the first time and achieved a score of 91 and 90 
respectively
Dream certified as a Great Place to Work ® 
which reflects its commitment to creating a 
positive work culture for all of its employees 
DRM and MPCT.UN released Impact Financing 
Framework to issue green, social or sustainability 
bonds, green loans and social loans, or other 
financial instruments to finance or re-finance 
eligible impact projects 
DIR.UN released Green Financing Framework in 
support of DIR.UN’s green financing initiatives 2019
DRM and MPCT.UN (formerly Dream Hard 
Asset Alternatives Trust) established a 
partnership with Anishinábe Health Toronto 
to develop Canary Block 10, the centre of 
an Indigenous Hub celebrating culture and 
serving Toronto’s Indigenous community
8BP
Best Place sIntroduction
ESG Framework
For over two decades, we have been working 
to make our communities better while 
maximizing returns for our investors.
We aim to continue this work while increasing our focus 
on generating intentional and measurable environmental 
and social returns, aligning ourselves with applicable 
standards and in 2021, further integrating ESG throughout 
our business by implementing a formal ESG Framework.  
We are excited to share our new ESG Framework, which 
identifies and elevates our ESG priorities and sets the 
direction for us to continue to be an ESG leader.  
Developed with extensive input from key stakeholders, our 
ESG Framework considers the global macro trends that 
are influencing today’s sustainability expectations and 
identifies the emerging and material sustainability topics 
that are ingrained in how we run our business internally 
and externally. The ESG Framework is connected to 
Dream’s purpose to Build Better Communities and aligns 
with our corporate values and strategy.
The ESG Framework applies to each of our entities and is 
tailored to address the most material ESG topics within 
each. Throughout this report you’ll find references to the 
ESG Framework, including at the start of each entity’s 
section, that set out the most material sustainability 
topics for each entity and how we are responding based 
on the type of asset class and specific fund objectives.  ESG Framework Pillars
Best  Places:
Creating better places and communities 
that make positive impacts on people’s 
lives and the planet 
Future Ready: 
Building and operating with the future  
in mind 
Strong  Relationships: 
Fostering inclusive relationships to create 
value for everyone in our community 
Operational Excellence: 
Running a great company that focuses  
on purpose and profitDream's Values
Our values provide the foundation for 
our corporate culture and our investment 
philosophy – and align with our ESG 
Framework pillars.
Social Responsibility 
Courageous Ideas
Meaningful Relationships
Fierce Diligence
9Best Places
Creating better places and communities that make 
positive impacts on people’s lives and the planet.
Certifications
Health, safety, and wellness
Amenities and inclusive atmosphere
Attainability and affordability
Connectivity
Dream Value: Social ResponsibilityFuture Ready
Building and operating with the future in mind.
Climate change resilience
Carbon and resource efficiency
Innovation and technology adoption
Sustainable development
Sustainable redevelopment
 Dream Value: Courageous IdeasStrong Relationships
Fostering inclusive relationships to create value for 
everyone in our community.
Tenant relationships
Government collaboration
Community / NGO partnerships
Indigenous engagement
Sustainable procurement
Dream Value: Meaningful RelationshipsOperational Excellence
Running a great company that focuses on purpose 
and profit.
Diversity, inclusion and advancement
Valuing employees, 
ESG risk management
Corporate governance
ESG impact and management
Dream Value: Fierce Diligence
BP
 SR FR OEESG Framework PillarsIntroduction
 
10Introduction
 
United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals 
The Sustainable Development Goals, (SDG) 
also known as the Global Goals, were 
adopted by all United Nations Member States 
in 2015 as a universal call to action to end 
poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all 
people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030.  
There are 17 goals in total which provide a shared blueprint 
to achieve these goals. In our investment strategy we 
identify relevant SDGs and consider how our project may 
contribute to the achievement of these goals. In particular, 
Dream is dedicated to building safe, resilient, inclusive and 
sustainable cities – expressed by Goal 11.
Dream supports the Sustainable Development Goals
Canary District
Toronto, Ontario
11Stakeholder  
groupEmployees
Frequency:  
ContinuousTenants
Frequency:  
ContinuousInvestors and analysts
Frequency:  
ContinuousMunicipal government partners 
and local communities
Frequency:  
Ad Hoc
Topics engaged on — COVID-19 response 
 — Health, safety and wellness initiatives 
 — Lunch and Learns 
 — Office services 
 — People & Culture programs  
 — Social Committee activities 
 — Diversity, inclusion and advancement  — Sustainability campaigns and events  
 — GHG data collection for areas outside of 
our operational control 
 — Wellness promotions 
 — COVID-19  — Sustainability strategy and disclosure  
 — Impact investing 
 — Financial returns alongside measurable 
social and environmental benefits 
 — Industry initiatives 
 — Net zero targets  — Housing affordability 
 — Indigenous engagement 
 — Social procurement 
 — Sustainability practices
Engagement 
methods — Annual performance reviews 
 — Semi-annual feedback check-ins 
 — Internal communications (intranet, 
emails) 
 — Bi-weekly business updates with Chief 
Responsible Officer 
 — One-on-one meetings 
 — Social media (LinkedIn, Glassdoor) 
 — Touchpoints and exit interviews 
 — Guest speakers  
 — Town halls 
 — Employee Surveys 
 — Weekly COVID-19 updates  — Emails/communications 
 — Engagement surveys 
 — Media releases 
 — Monthly promotions 
 — One-on-one meetings with leasing and 
client services  
 — Tenant experience emails 
 — Tenant concierge service 
 — Website 
 — Quarterly newsletters Investor relations activities including: 
 — Investor Days 
 — Investor presentations 
 — Meetings 
 — Annual General Meeting 
 — External conferences 
 — Press releases 
 — Quarterly and annual reports  
 — Website  — Community meetings 
 — Emails and other communications 
 — Sustainability policies and standards  
 — Focus groups 
 — Market round- table discussions 
 — Media releases 
 — Websites (project specific and 
corporate) websites 
 — Quarterly and annual reports 
 — Relationship building 
What we heard — Employees feel heard and supported 
 — Employees report that Dream is an 
inclusive place to work 
 — Dream employees feel that health and 
safety has been implemented well 
through the COVID-19 pandemic 
 — Employees feel there is an openness 
to new ideas  
 — Employees appreciate the fast-paced 
work culture and environment at 
Dream  — Tenants report they are appreciative of 
efforts to promote wellness, as well as 
offer new programs and communication 
platforms 
 — Tenants are pleased with receiving 
regular COVID-19 updates and new 
safety protocols   — Investors are interested in Dream’s 
approach to managing sustainability, 
climate risk disclosure and participation 
in the GRESB real estate assessment 
and the United Nations Principles for 
Responsible Investment (UN PRI) — Design-related feedback 
 — Importance of  public realm, parks, 
public spaces, amenities
How we are 
responding — Initiated discussions with employees 
and managers on topics of 
engagement 
 — Used feedback from employee survey 
to identify improvement opportunities 
and implement new initiatives to 
improve employee experience 
 — Refined our Whistleblower Policy  
 — Following up on diversity survey 
recommendations   — Used feedback from our tenant 
satisfaction survey to identify 
improvement opportunities for property 
teams and develop action plans to 
implement new tenant engagement 
initiatives — Enhanced sustainability governance
 — Set performance targets 
 — Assessed flood risk
 — Aligning disclosures with leading ESG 
reporting standards — Enhanced communication including 
community feedback, ongoing dialogue, 
open soundings and weekly meetings 
 — Integrated design-related changes Introduction
Stakeholder  
Engagement
Dream fosters strong, long-term relationships 
and maintains an open and ongoing dialogue 
with all our stakeholders.
Doing so creates satisfied tenants, happy employees, 
confident investors and enthusiastic partners. We make 
use of multiple engagement methods to continuously 
improve how we work together and create shared value in 
the communities where we operate. We continue to build 
on the feedback received from our stakeholders and use it 
to improve our business.
12Governance & Risk
Dream is committed to sound and effective 
corporate governance. Our goal is to not only 
meet the requirements established by regulators, 
but also to uphold excellent corporate 
governance principles and practices. 
13Governance
Our governance approach includes nominating 
diverse, independent and experienced Board 
members to each of our public entities, as well as 
ensuring transparency in all aspects of our business.
Read more about our corporate governance practices in the 
Management Information Circulars for each entity and on our 
corporate websites.
Board Oversight
For each Dream entity, a Board Committee is responsible for 
oversight of sustainability matters. We continue to embed 
sustainability in our Board mandates and integrate sustainability in 
each entity’s strategy, enterprise management systems, operations 
and most importantly, culture.
Board Composition
Each Dream Board is comprised of highly experienced, dedicated 
and knowledgeable professionals who each have expertise in key 
areas of Dream’s businesses.
How Our Framework Applies:
Governance topics that are a key priority for Dream are:
Corporate governance
ESG risk management
ESG impact and management
The following sections in this charter will illustrate how we are addressing 
material governance topics for Dream and how ESG is integrated 
throughout our governance structures and risk management processes.Dream Industrial REIT - Read More ↗
Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Disclosure Policy ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
Whistleblower Policy ↗
Majority Voting Policy ↗
Diversity Inclusion & Advancement  
Commitment ↗
Management Information Circular ↗Dream Unlimited Corp. - Read More ↗
Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Disclosure Policy ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
Whistleblower Policy ↗
Majority Voting Policy ↗
Diversity Inclusion & Advancement  
Commitment ↗
Management Information Circular ↗Dream Impact Trust - Read More ↗
Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Disclosure Policy ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
Whistleblower Policy ↗
Majority Voting Policy ↗
Diversity Inclusion & Advancement  
Commitment ↗
Management Information Circular ↗Dream Office REIT - Read More ↗
Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Disclosure Policy ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
Whistleblower Policy ↗
Majority Voting Policy ↗
Diversity Inclusion & Advancement  
Commitment ↗
Management Information Circular ↗75+2575%
75+2571%
75+2571%
75+2575%50+5050%
43+5743%
25+7525%Independent Women
75+2575%
75+2575%
75+2575%60+4060%
2019(1)2020(2)
Independent WomenBoard Composition
(1)   As of November 2020.
(2)   As of December 2021.
(3)   Includes members of both the GP and Trust Boards.
43+5743%*
25+7525%50+5050%↗
↗
↗
↗60+4060%50+5050%
OE(3)
14Board Diversity
We believe in diversity and value the benefits 
it can bring to our Boards.
Board diversity promotes the inclusion of different 
perspectives and ideas and ensures that Dream has the 
opportunity to benefit from all available talent. Having 
a diverse Board makes prudent business sense, helps 
maintain a competitive advantage and makes for better 
corporate governance.  
We will periodically assess the skills, experience, knowledge 
and backgrounds of Directors and Trustees in light of 
the needs of the Board, including the extent to which the 
current composition of the Board reflects a diverse mix of 
skills, experience, knowledge and backgrounds, including 
an appropriate number of women Directors and Trustees. 
The Board targets a composition in which women comprise 
approximately 30% of Directors or Trustees.
In 2021, we approved Board Diversity Policies for each of 
our public entities.
Executive Oversight
The Chief Responsible Officer (CRO) of Dream Unlimited is 
the highest-level executive with oversight over ESG, including 
sustainability and climate change matters, at Dream. In addition, 
the Chief Financial Officer of each Dream entity together with the 
Chief Operating Officers for DIR.UN and D.UN provides leadership 
over the sustainability strategy and oversees the adoption of the 
ESG Framework for each Dream entity. 
Sustainability at Dream is managed by the ESG Executive 
Committee, which is made up of members of the Executive 
Leadership team from each Dream entity as well as the Head of 
Sustainability & Technical Services and VP Strategic Finance. 
The ESG Executive Committee receives regular updates from 
the Sustainability & ESG team, Strategic Finance team, and the 
Sustainability Working Groups. 
Dream Leadership Conference 
Collingwood, ON
30 Adelaide Street East,
Toronto, OntarioGovernance
 
Further Information
Dream Unlimited Corp. 
Website  ↗Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Dream Impact Trust
Website  ↗Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Dream Office REIT 
Website  ↗Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
Dream Industrial REIT 
Website  ↗Charters & Policies ↗
Board Diversity Policy ↗
15Green Property Operations
This group is responsible for integrating environmental 
sustainability in Dream’s property operations, 
which includes overseeing energy, water, and waste 
management, procurement, leasing and marketing, and 
tenant engagement. The Green Property Operations 
group supports the development and rollout of policies, 
programs, guidelines and tools.Employee Engagement
The employee engagement group uses social activities, 
personal development programs, and inter-office 
competitions to raise awareness about Dream’s 
sustainability practices. The group designs activities to 
encourage employees to understand and support our 
commitments to sustainability. A key component of this 
group’s goals is to tie Dream to its purpose of Building 
Better Communities.Tenant Engagement
The tenant engagement group remains in frequent 
contact with tenants to keep them well informed of 
Dream’s sustainability efforts. The group evaluates 
tenant satisfaction with the services we provide and 
identifies improvement opportunities, designs activities 
to encourage tenants to be environmentally conscious 
and connects with tenant sustainability committees and 
internal green teams.
Sustainability Reporting & Communications
This group works to continually embed sustainability 
into the Dream brand, so that everyone internally and 
externally knows about our commitment to sustainability. 
This entails preparing an external sustainability report, 
sharing information through newsletters and online, 
working on targeted sponsorships and promoting Dream’s 
efforts at conferences.Profile: Sustainability  
Working Groups 
When it comes to our people and the environment, we 
are committed to establishing and implementing strong 
sustainable practices. To make this an integral part of our 
culture, we give our employees opportunities to participate in 
our sustainability efforts through four employee-led working 
groups that champion different aspects of our sustainability 
efforts and lead the implementation of our activities.01 02
03 04
Employees Teaching Sustainability
30 Adelaide Street East, Toronto, ONGovernance
 
16Risk Management
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) at Dream is integrated 
with our risk management frameworks and is managed by 
our risk management group. 
ERM is overseen by the Governance & Nominating Committee of the DRM 
Board. The Director of Risk and Insurance reports annually to the following 
Board committees at each entity: the Governance & Nominating Committee 
at DRM; the Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee at 
MPCT.UN; the Compensation, Health and Environmental Committee at D.UN; 
and the Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee at DIR.UN.  
ERM at Dream is executed through procedures aimed at identifying, 
analyzing, responding to, managing and reporting on our exposure to 
risks. Through this process, risks are assessed based on their anticipated 
frequency, severity and likelihood, then either transferred, mitigated, or 
managed accordingly.  
Risk management for acquisitions, investments and developments is overseen 
by the Chief Operating Officers and Chief Executive Officers at both D.UN and 
DIR.UN, respectively, together with the Chief Financial Officers. For DRM and 
MPCT.UN, this is overseen by the President of Asset Management and Chief 
Responsible Officer of DRM together with the Chief Financial Officers. At each 
entity, acquisitions and developments involve collaboration with numerous 
teams, including the Risk Management and Technical Services departments.
Risk management activities include evaluating opportunities using both an 
Impact Investment Criteria Checklist to assess environmental, social and 
governance risks and opportunities, as well as a Due Diligence Checklist 
involving a more comprehensive set of risks, tailored for each opportunity. 
In acquisitions, Due Diligence Checklists involve assessments of building 
systems to determine the business case and payback associated with capital 
improvements that are required to enhance resource efficiency and add 
value to the investment. This is in addition to environmental site assessments 
conducted by the Risk Management department and its environmental 
consultants to identify, quantify, and manage potential environmental risks.Climate Change Risks
Climate change continues to attract the focus of governments and the 
general public as an important threat, given that the emission of greenhouse 
gases and other activities continue to negatively impact the planet. Investors 
increasingly view climate change as a critical concern, while tenants and 
residents continue to demand low-carbon, resilient properties.  
Dream is exposed to both the transition and physical risks of climate change. 
Transition risk is the risk that our properties will be subject to government 
regulations aimed at mitigating the impacts of climate change, such as 
greenhouse gas emissions reduction regulations, which could impose 
constraints on our operational flexibility or cause us to incur financial costs 
to comply with various reforms. Failure to adapt to climate change reforms 
could result in fines or adversely affect our reputation, operations or financial 
performance. Furthermore, our properties may be exposed to the impact of 
events caused by climate change, such as natural disasters and increasingly 
frequent and severe weather conditions; which we refer to as physical risks. 
Such events could interrupt our operations and activities, threaten our 
tenants, damage our properties and may potentially decrease our property 
values or require us to incur additional expenses, including increasing 
insurance costs against natural disasters and severe weather.  
Transition and physical climate risks are part of Dream’s ERM and are 
currently managed through acquisition due diligence, building performance 
analyses, capital improvements, environmental, health and safety 
inspections and environmental audits in standing investments, as well as 
environmental health and safety inspections for new acquisitions. Our 
proactive energy management practices enable Dream to mitigate the 
adverse impacts of new regulation, including compliance costs. We also 
manage our risks by purchasing insurance policies to cover our assets in the 
event of property damage arising from climate-related events. We insure our 
assets to their 100% true replacement cost value, including coverage for 24 
months of gross income. This mitigates Dream's exposure and ensures we are 
reasonably protected from potential losses.  
Energy and Water Management Risks 
Dream is focused on managing and operating our buildings and acquisitions 
as efficiently as possible to mitigate risks associated with escalating utility 
costs, shifting regulations and tenant preferences. We manage energy 
and water risks by conducting energy and water audits, and implementing 
applicable efficiency measures to reduce our consumption.Dream Unlimited Corp. 
Website  ↗2020 Annual Report ↗
Dream Impact Trust
Website  ↗2020 Annual Report ↗
Dream Office REIT 
Website  ↗2020 Annual Report ↗
Dream Industrial REIT 
Website  ↗2020 Annual Report ↗
For more information, please read our latest reports available on our website:Zibi
Ottawa, ON / Gatineau, QCGovernance
 
17Governance
 
Physical Climate Risks
We conduct analyses on an annual basis to identify physical climate risks in 
our portfolio and assess our level of resiliency. Climate resiliency describes 
our actions to prepare, adapt and endure the shocks and stressors we face 
related to climate change. The goal of climate resilience is to reduce the 
likelihood and impact of a catastrophic or disruptive event on our properties 
and in our communities.
Using third-party climate data, we assess the physical climate risk at each 
property across each of our entities, DRM, MPCT.UN, D.UN and DIR.UN, 
against the following hazards:
We are committed to improving the resilience of our properties against the 
effects of physical climate risks. Using this analysis, we will identify specific 
regions and properties with increased climate risk and identify opportunities 
to improve resilience through ongoing capital and operations investments.  
In addition, we have performed a flood and catastrophic loss risk assessment 
to determine which properties in our portfolio are at risk of losses from 50, 
100, 200 and 500-year floods.  
Based on the results, we are actively exploring developing site-specific plans, 
such as water damage mitigation plans and emergency plans for industrial 
properties at risk of windstorms. For example, our Zibi development, which 
is in a 50-year flood plain, has been designed to withstand 1,000-year 
flood risk. Going forward, our goal is to integrate standardized policies and 
procedures to further mitigate against physical climate risks across our 
portfolio. We believe this will also lead to lower insurance premiums and 
avoidance of stranded assets. 50-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)100-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)200-year 
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area(2) 
(sq. ft.)
DRM(3)3 4,000,000 1 400,000 - - 1 37 ,000
MPCT.UN(4)- - 1 61,000 - - - -
D.UN - - 1 78,000 - - 1 228,000
DIR.UN 1 86,000 13 1,900,000 17 2,400,000 14 2,600,000
(1)  Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated in the figures in the other time categories. Changes from 2020 are the
result of acquisitions or dispositions of assets since the previous reporting year. As of September 30, 2021.
(2)  Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA).
(3)  Includes Dream Unlimited’s Canadian Income Properties, Arapahoe Basin, Willows in Saskatoon and Zibi at 100% of GLA as of September 30, 2021. 
(4)  MPCT.UN assets managed by D.UN were included in this assessment at 100% of GLA.Flooding
Wildfire
Windstorm
TornadoHailstorm   
Lightning 
Earthquake   
1602 Tricont Avenue,
Whitby Ontario
Zibi
Ottawa, ON / Gatineau, QCNumber of At-Risk Assets from Flooding(1)Cyber Risk
Dream is committed to cyber security and privacy through a 
combination of regular security awareness activities and use 
of next-generation protection technologies.
Our cloud strategy involves an in-depth design around user access rights 
which supports our data governance initiatives. We perform regular assurance 
activities, which include internal and third-party vulnerability scanning and 
assessments in order to manage exposure and risk. 
Our cyber security team monitors threats and attacks and has implemented 
preventative measures to ensure that all systems and employees are protected. 
We have a robust set of processes and procedures for incident management 
and resolution, supported by a cycle of continuous improvement. In addition, 
we have a mandatory cyber-awareness training program for all employees 
which ensures that they can detect and report malicious behaviour.
18Business Ethics
As one of Canada’s leading real estate 
organizations, Dream is committed to 
maintaining the highest standards as it 
relates to Board governance and ethical 
business conduct.
We are steadfast in our commitment to maintaining the 
highest business and personal ethical standards by dealing 
openly and honestly with each other and with our Directors, 
Trustees, investors, tenants and suppliers. We are also 
acutely aware of the laws and regulations that govern our 
conduct at work, in the marketplace and in our communities. 
The various policies governing business ethics and norms 
of behaviour at the Dream group of companies are 
developed by respective entity Boards. Compliance with 
these policies is the responsibility of all employees.  
Each Dream entity has a Code of Conduct which is 
reviewed annually. The Codes are our statement of 
the values and principles that guide us in our day to-
day business activities. T he keystones of our Codes 
are: integrity, respect, fairness, accountability and 
transparency. The Codes support our commitment to 
operate our businesses at the highest level of legal, moral 
and ethical standards and they provide the overriding 
principles for all of our policies and our approach to 
business. Each entity’s Code of Conduct applies to 
all members of the organization, including Directors, 
Trustees, Officers and employees.   
Dream Unlimited Corp. 
Website  ↗Annual Information Form ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
DIA Code of Conduct ↗
Dream Impact Trust
Website  ↗Annual Information Form ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
DIA Code of Conduct ↗
Dream Office REIT 
Website  ↗Annual Information Form ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
DIA Code of Conduct ↗
Dream Industrial REIT 
Website  ↗Annual Information Form ↗
Code of  Conduct ↗
DIA Code of Conduct ↗These Codes have guidelines for expected behaviours and 
practices in day-to-day business activities, and direct 
employees to report conflicts of interest to a manager. 
Conflicts of interests related to Directors, Trustees and 
Officers are disclosed in our Annual Information Forms, while 
related party transactions are disclosed in each entity’s 
financial statements.  Governance
 
Dream University Learning Session
30 Adelaide Street East, Toronto, ON
19Social
At Dream, our people set us apart. We take 
great pride in our workforce and know that 
investing in them creates long-term value for 
our company.
20How Our ESG  
Framework Applies
Our goal is to be an inclusive employer 
that fosters a workplace where diversity is 
recognized as our strength and all employees 
enjoy equal opportunities to unlock their 
potential and grow their careers.
The approximately 500 employees across our entities 
come from a variety of backgrounds and places, bringing 
valuable skills and perspectives to our team. Together, 
we are united by our company values and common 
purpose of Building Better Communities.  We believe that 
employees should have better lives because they work at 
Dream - both professionally and personally through the 
impact they have on the communities we are developing 
and through the knowledge that they are contributing to a 
better and more sustainable future. 
Material social topics that are key priorities for Dream are:
Community and NGO Partnerships
Diversity, inclusion, and advancement
Valuing employees
The following sections in this chapter will illustrate how 
we are addressing material social topics for Dream 
and provide examples of how our business contributes 
positively to social outcomes. 
Valuing Employees Diversity, Inclusion, and Advancement
Community and NGO Partnerships“Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, Dream has remained committed 
to flexibility, support, transparency and most importantly, the well-
being of our employees, their families and our communities in general. 
Over the past year and a half, we developed our Better Together Plans, 
our response to dealing with the pandemic and how we plan to safely 
welcome back employees, tenants and guests.  Through continued 
communication, we provided the information our employees needed 
to stay informed and supported while adhering to the best health and 
safety practices and standards.”
Gordon Wadley
Chief Operating Officer, Dream Office REIT 
Lead of Dream’s Pandemic Response Team
SR
Social
 
OE
21Our Approach
Employee development and engagement is managed by 
Dream’s People & Culture team, which serves all Dream 
entities. Our approach is guided by employee opinions to 
understand what makes working at Dream enjoyable and how 
best to improve their experience.  
Our People & Culture team works together with our Health 
& Safety team and Diversity, Inclusion and Advancement 
Committee to enhance engagement and employee 
development, as well as further embed wellness, diversity, 
inclusion, and advancement across all areas of the Dream 
employee experience. Employee development and engagement 
is governed by the Organization Design and Culture 
Committee of the DRM Board. 
Dream Group of Companies - Employee Summary
(1)  Includes only employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, Dream Industrial Management Corp. and Dream Office Management Corp and Dream Advisors
Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties, employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns.   
(2)  Numbers represented as total headcount, not full-time equivalent. 
(3)  Includes permanent part-time employees. 
(4)  Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week. Total Men WomenAge 
>30Age  
30-50Age  
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
CanadaUnited 
StatesEurope
New Hires(1)
2019 97 50 47 44 41 12 80 16 - 1
2020 68 41 27 19 40 9 55 9 - 4
Voluntary Turnover Rate(1) (2)
2019 16% 7% 9% 5% 9% 2% 12% 4% - -
2020 7% 4% 3% 2% 3% 2% 6% 1% - -2019 2020
Employee (1)(2) Total Men Women Total Men Women
Permanent(3)470 251 219 476 252 224
Contract 24 11 13 14 6 8
Full-time(4)488 259 229 486 255 231
Part-time 6 3 3 4 3 1Dream Group of Companies – New Hires and Turnover Rates
In 2020, Dream hired a total of 68 new full-time employees and had an overall voluntary turnover rate of 7%. The decrease in 
turnover rate from 2019 can be attributed to uncertainty caused by COVID-19, Dream’s commitment to no layoffs and a bonus 
payment to all employees earning under $100,000 annually at the beginning of COVID-19. Key Accomplishments
86% response rate achieved in our 2021 employee 
engagement survey 
Certified as a Great Place to Work®  in 2021  
Named one of Canada’s Best Employers  for Recent 
Graduates  in 2021 by The Career Directory 
Recognized as one of the  Best Workplaces for Giving 
Back  in 2021 by Great Place to Work
24 virtual events  were held to engage employees 
throughout the pandemic 
5 Dream employees  were awarded with Ethos Awards for 
living Dream values 
$13,400  donated to local foodbanks in lieu of holding 
annual holiday party as part of our Home for the Holidays 
employee initiative 
Social 
Employee 
Development & 
Engagement
We are focused on developing leaders throughout 
Dream by prioritizing internal hires and 
providing opportunities for personal and 
professional growth. 
(1)  Includes only employees employed by Dream Asset Management Corporation, Dream Industrial Management Corp. and Dream Office Management Corp and Dream Advisors
Does not include employees at Dream recreational properties, employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) or interns. 
(2)  Turnover is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2020. 
222019 2020
Tuition $72,229 $73,273
Professional fees $440,989 $351,982Dream Group of Companies - Employee 
Training and Development 
Employee Development
At Dream we strongly believe in developing future talent, 
which is why we have a strong internship program where 
we welcome a broad range of students from different 
backgrounds to experience our corporate environment and 
provide them an opportunity to learn practical skills relevant 
to their field of study. 
We hire students from different universities and colleges and are always 
proud to rehire past interns in full-time roles post-graduation. In addition 
to this, we are a Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA)  accredited 
organization which allows our employees to receive the accredited hours they 
require to obtain their CPA designation. Dream also has a 360 Rotational 
Analyst Program to develop up-and-coming talent by awarding them full time 
employment upon graduation after spending a summer term with Dream.  Employee Benefits
Dream’s benefits for full time employees and their dependents are effective 
starting day one of employment and boast a wide variety of competitive 
perks including a parental leave top-up program, annual bonuses, and 
retirement savings programs. Our People & Culture team are proactive about 
evolving our benefits program to prioritize employee health and wellbeing 
with flexible options to suit a variety of preferences. See below for more 
highlights of our employee benefits.
Health and Wellness:
Employee Assistance Program 
Telemedicine services 
Virtual counselling 
League platform: 
• Benefits concierge 
• Health programs and challenges 
• Wellness marketplace and discounts 
• Health and lifestyle spending accounts 
Learning and Development:
Up to $2,500 tuition reimbursement
Up to $500 reimbursement for textbooks per year 
Reimbursement of professional membership or designation fees 
Reimbursement for job-related training, seminars, or conferences 
Engagement:
Ethos employee award program for living Dream values 
Half-day Fridays before summer long weekends 
Bi-monthly virtual events, contests and activities, in lieu of in-person events due 
to COVID-19 
Donations, and volunteer work that impact our communities  Employee Engagement Survey
In 2021, we conducted an employee engagement survey to better understand 
employee satisfaction across a variety of topics. The survey was deployed 
by Great Place to Work Canada®, as part of our certification process to be 
recognized as a Great Place to Work®, and achieved an 86% completion rate. 
The Great Place to Work® certification is based upon the following factors:
 — The level of trust that employees have in leadership 
 — The level of pride employees have in their jobs 
 — The extent to which employees get along with colleagues 
The survey results provided our People & Culture team with meaningful 
insights regarding employees’ satisfaction with our benefit program and 
leadership’s communication throughout the pandemic. For example: 
84%  of respondents agreed that “the organization’s current health 
benefits program (Medical, Dental, Employee Assistance Program, 
Telemedicine, Health Spending Accounts, League etc.) meets or 
exceeds my needs"
97%  of respondents agreed that “Leadership has been keeping us 
informed of the emergency measures’ impact on the business during 
the COVID-19 pandemic"
96%  of respondents agreed that  “Leadership has kept me well-
informed of measures being taken by the organization to protect 
employees during the COVID-19 pandemic"In 2021, Dream was recognized  
by The Career Directory as one  
of Canada’s Best Employers  
for Recent GraduatesSocial
 
23Forward-looking Plans
Dream will continue to support employees 
during the COVID-19 pandemic and provide 
a safe return to the office. In addition, we are 
using the results of the employee engagement 
survey and focusing on the following new 
initiatives to enhance the Dream experience:
Not Myself Today
Not Myself Today is a new initiative Dream is preparing 
to roll out to invest in the mental health of our workforce. 
This initiative will complement our existing mental health 
benefits and programs such as our virtual counselling 
offering and mental health focused lunch and learns. 
Not Myself Today provides participating companies 
with tools and resources to build greater awareness and 
understanding of mental health, reduce stigma, and 
foster a supportive culture. The program offers support 
and expert resources developed by the Canadian Mental 
Health Association and will provide our People & Culture 
team with best-practice tools to engage, evaluate and 
educate the organization to strengthen our approach to 
mental health. 
Dream Exchange / Ten Thousand Coffees
In early 2022, our People & Culture team is planning to 
expand our Dream Exchange platform to include a ‘genius 
bar’ expert speaker series. This initiative will support 
employee engagement and development by providing 
opportunities for in-house subject matter experts to 
deliver custom presentations to an audience of interested 
colleagues and allow for all employees to benefit from the 
wealth of skill and knowledge that exists at Dream.
Case Study
Dream Exchange / Ten 
Thousand Coffees
In June 2021, Dream implemented a new mentorship program, 
prompted by employee feedback gathered through our diversity 
survey. Employees shared with us that they wanted more 
opportunities to connect with colleagues, as well as gain a stronger 
understanding of different parts of the company. In response, the 
People & Culture team partnered with Ten Thousand Coffees to 
launch Dream Exchange – a platform that employees can use to 
help expand their internal networks. The tool offers Dream staff 
the option to set up one-on-one connections based on professional 
topics of interest, as well as participate in small-group Q&A 
discussions with leadership.
OEValuing employeesSocial
 
Case Study
Dream 360 Program
Dream 360 is a rotation program that allows soon-to-be 
graduates to gain experience in various departments of a diverse 
real estate business. Successful applicants join us as summer 
analysts following their third year of post-secondary studies 
before joining Dream on a full-time basis upon completion of 
their fourth and final year of school. Program participants get to 
experience various groups within Dream including Investments, 
Development Finance, Asset Management, Financial Planning 
& Analysis, Strategic Finance and Portfolio Management. Each 
rotation is approximately one year long, and after two rotations 
analysts join one group in a permanent role. This competitive 
program allows participating analysts the flexibility to shape their 
experience at Dream, working with us to develop and identify 
their interests. 
OEValuing employees
24Social
Diversity, Inclusion & 
Advancement
At Dream we value Diversity, Inclusion and 
Advancement (DIA) for our workforce and 
communities. We believe in making our 
work environment and the communities in 
which we operate a space for all individuals 
to be their most authentic selves. This is 
best reflected through engagement in our 
four pillars: Listen, Learn, Action and 
Accountability. 
Listen
We hear the stories of our employees and stakeholders 
to understand the pulse around diversity, inclusion, 
advancement, and equity at Dream.Learn
We believe in constantly educating ourselves on best practices 
and ways to make our workforce and communities more inclusive.
Action
Not only do we say we want to accomplish things, we take 
actionable measures to ensure we are following through on 
our obligations.Accountability
We hold ourselves responsible by measuring and monitoring 
our goals and progress with data and analysis.
25Approach
Diversity, Inclusion and Advancement (DIA) 
at Dream is managed by the DIA Committee. 
The Committee membership includes 
employees of all levels, including C-suite, 
Directors, Managers, as well as our President 
and Chief Responsible Officer.
The DIA Committee is chaired by the Chief Operating 
Officer of Dream Office REIT and Dream Unlimited’s 
Director of Technology Operations. The Committee’s 
mandate is to learn, listen and develop best practices to 
enhance diversity and inclusion at Dream, as well as build 
accountability for advancing DIA across the business. 
Key Accomplishments
Completed our first diversity survey to provide us with a baseline 
measurement of our current status and provide focus and opportunities for 
success in the future 
Two-time honouree of the Globe and Mail’s Report on Business "Women 
Lead Here" program that benchmarks gender parity (2020 and 2021) 
Created the Dream DIA Commitment – our statement detailing what we 
stand for at Dream when it comes to diversity, inclusion and advancement 
Developed a new intranet site and external webpage dedicated to DIA 
initiatives and accomplishments 
Launched quarterly DIA training to help employees better understand 
and act on systemic racism, unconscious bias, race, colour, and gender 
discrimination  
Launched the Dream Exchange, our internal mentorship program that 
focuses on the advancement of all employees 
Provided two scholarships towards the Girls E-Mentorship (GEMs) Program 
and provided a summer internship for a GEMs student. GEM was founded 
in 2012 with the vision that all young women should have the opportunity 
to succeed despite where they come from or what barriers they have faced 
Enhanced our Employee Referral Program to provide employees an option 
to donate their referral bonus to a DIA charity 
Joined CREED Council as an industry partner. The aim of the CREED 
Council is to shift the equity and diversity conversation from talk to action 
through the creation of widely applicable tools, resources, programs, 
services and best practices that enhance inclusion in the workplace 
Provided 16,705 sq. ft. of free office space at our Eglinton Complex to 
the CEE Centre for Young Black Professionals for a 2-year term. This 
transaction equates to $425,000 in community benefit
In Spring 2021, Dream commissioned Saskatoon Community Youth Arts 
Programming (SCYAP) to create a mural celebrating Metis culture at 1st 
Avenue Parkade. SCYAP was established in 2001 as a non-profit that helps 
at-risk-youth through art, as well as cultural and employment programming  Social
 
26Community
The community workstream works towards giving back, 
promoting inclusivity and providing support to community-based 
organizations that are focused on under-served communities. We 
believe that it is fundamentally important to give back and support 
these communities.
DREAM Difference
Our DREAM Difference workstream focuses on opportunities to leverage 
our networks, partners and contractors in order to provide opportunities to 
those in the BIPOC Community. We also have a unique opportunity to pay it 
forward by supporting not-for-profit groups via providing accommodations 
and/or mitigating the cost of their rent. Recruitment
Our recruitment workstream focuses on continuing to hire diverse 
talent while removing unconscious bias during the hiring process. 
We also target a larger network by supporting community-based 
organizations to create pipelines to recruit, attract, expose and mentor 
underrepresented communities.
Advancement
Our advancement workstream works towards growing and 
developing our internal talent at all levels within Dream. In 
addition, we work externally to provide support and resources 
toward growth and access to employment opportunities. 
Performance
We measure our progress on diversity, inclusion and advancement 
in many ways. Most recently, in our 2021 employee engagement 
survey, our employees voluntarily self-disclosed diversity 
information which will act as our benchmark data. Through our 
activities, initiatives and programs we will strive to create an even 
more diverse workforce.We are committed to reviewing our practices and ensuring there are no gaps in how we operate. To do this 
effectively, we have focused on our four employee-led workstreams that aim to foster a more inclusive culture:
Dream Group of Companies - Gender Breakdown of 
Dream Employees and Governance Bodies:2019(1)2020(2)
Women Men Women Men
Employees(3)53+4747% 53%53+4747% 53%
Managers 53+4745% 55%53+4745% 55%
Executive Team 69+3131% 69%69+3130% 70%
DRM - Board of Directors 50+5050% 50%50+5050% 50%
MPCT.UN - GP & Trust Boards(4)57+4343% 57%40+6060% 40%
D.UN - Board of Trustees 57+4343% 57%50+5050% 50%
DIR.UN - Board of Trustees 75+2525% 75%75+2525% 75%
(1)  As of November 2020.
(2)  As of December 2021.
(3)  Includes employees at all levels. 
(4)  Includes members of both the GP and Trust Boards.Social
 
27Forward-looking Plans
Formalized Recruiting Framework
We believe in embracing diverse backgrounds, experiences, talents, 
and perspectives and that we are stronger when we create equitable 
opportunities for growth and advancement. To improve our diversity and 
inclusion practices in recruiting, Dream is working to create an inclusive 
hiring guide and provide anti-bias training and educational resources for 
managers. We are also working to enhance the accessibility of our hiring 
process, and are reviewing our external marketing with the aim to broaden 
and diversify our typical recruitment strategies. 
Voluntary Demographic Census
In the coming year, we are planning a voluntary demographic census. The 
census will allow employees to anonymously self-identify their race, ethnicity, 
disability status, sexual orientation and gender. This data will allow our 
People & Culture team to better tailor employee programs, as well as support 
our DIA Committee in understanding the makeup of our employee population. 
This data will be leveraged to guide organizational DIA efforts and address 
systemic inequities. 
Employee Resource Groups
Dream’s People & Culture team is working on launching Employee Resource 
Groups (ERGs), a new initiative to build community among employees 
and provide greater opportunities for organic learning experiences that 
contribute to both personal and professional development. ERGs may 
be convened around employee identity or experience such as female 
professionals, people of colour, young professionals, or new hires. ERGs can 
serve to benefit employees by creating opportunities to form supportive 
professional relationships outside of their teams or department.Diversity Survey
In 2020, we completed a milestone accomplishment: our first diversity 
survey. The insights gained from the survey will be used as a baseline to 
help measure the success of future DIA initiatives. The survey results show 
that a vast majority of Dream employees strongly agree that diversity and 
equity are essential for business success. We are encouraged by our results 
as we believe we are setting a high bar at the start of this journey. Our DIA 
Committee is looking forward to continuing to build on this accomplishment.  
Lunch & Learn Series
We believe that education is a key factor for us to understand our differences 
and commonalities. Enhanced education helps foster an environment that is 
open, inclusive and unbiased, which is why we offer workshops and training 
for our employees to share and learn from each other.  In 2020, we completed 
the planning for the launch of our 2021 Lunch & Learn Series which will cover 
a wide variety of social topics. 
3%
of employees identify 
as LGBTQ+29%
of employees identify 
as visible minorities
2%
of employees identify 
as Indigenous5%
of employees identify 
as having a disability
* Based on 86% of employees responding to survey.
* Data as of June 2021.35%
aged under 3551%
between the ages of 
35-5414%
over the age of 55Dream Group of Companies – Additional Diversity Metrics*
Pride Lunch and Learn  Webex Indigenous Education Lunch & Learn WebexSocial
 
28Social
Health and Safety 
Health and safety at Dream is collectively 
overseen by the Head of People & Culture 
and the VP of Property Management.
Day-to-day management of Health and safety is the 
responsibility of our Health and Safety Coordinator who 
is responsible for monitoring and tracking health and 
safety incidents, training requirements and implementing 
corporate and property level preventative measures. 
All levels of management work in consultation and 
cooperation with employees, Joint Health and Safety 
Committees, contractors and visitors to ensure that the 
requirements of Dream’s Health and Safety Policy, the 
Occupational Health and Safety Act, and other applicable 
legislation are met. 
All managers and supervisors are responsible and 
accountable for the health and safety of the individuals 
and workplaces under their oversight. They are expected 
to advise employees of the existence of potential or actual 
workplace hazards and ensure that employees work 
safely in accordance with the Occupational Health and 
Safety Act and its regulations, as well as all applicable 
Dream policies and procedures.  
Joint Health and Safety Committees and representatives 
are required to do regular inspections at various 
frequencies depending on what province they are 
located in. Our Health and Safety department receives 
a copy of each inspection and may direct concerns to 
supervisors, schedule follow-up inspections, or investigate 
any instances of non-compliance. We provide health and 
safety training for all employees, specific to their roles 
and job requirements. 
Key Accomplishments
Began updating National Corporate Health and 
Safety Program to ensure consistency throughout all 
divisions 
Created mandatory health and safety courses to be 
completed by all new Dream employees 
Updated tracking system to record all incidents, 
accidents, and inspection reports to continuously 
improve hazard assessment  
90%  of respondents in employee engagement 
survey reported that “Our organization has been 
providing adequate support for me to feel physically 
and emotionally safe during the COVID-19 crisis"
Performance 2019 2020
Lost-time injuries Near misses Lost-time injuries Near misses
Men 1 - 1 -
Women - - - -
Central Canada 1 - - -
Western Canada - - 1 -
Injury type(s) Saw dust in eye N/A Slip / trip -
Lost days 2 N/A 10 -
29RiskCheck Health and Safety Services 
Dream employs RiskCheck, Canada’s leading environmental 
health and safety risk management company, to perform 
annual inspections for our buildings in Ontario and quarterly 
checks across all of our buildings in Canada. RiskCheck’s 
services provide assurance that Dream complies with regional 
regulations related to all aspects of health and safety. 
RiskCheck also supports Dream’s Health & Safety teams in 
delivering, designing and implementing internal training and 
risk management programs to mitigate any risks identified in 
annual inspections.Forward-looking Plans 
Our Health & Safety team’s goals and objectives are to develop 
and implement a robust, standardized, and comprehensive 
Health and Safety program across Dream that meets and 
exceeds industry standards. To achieve this, we are working on:
Achieving 100% completion for health and safety training for 
operations employees and new employees
Launching an internal health and safety platform to share health 
and safety policies, forms and other health and safety topics in 
a convenient and central location for all employees
Conducting an annual review of our health and safety policies 
and procedures
Case Study
Rapid COVID-19 Screening
In May of 2021, we entered a pilot program with the Rotman 
Creative Destruction Lab to implement a voluntary rapid antigen 
screening program. The program is available to both corporate 
and operations employees. Employees who volunteer to participate 
are encouraged to test twice per week but can test more often if 
they wish. Test results are available in 15 minutes. The screening is 
self-administered under the supervision of a trained colleague who 
guides volunteers through the process. We opened our screening 
hub in June 2021 and as of September 2021 we had:
 — 143 volunteers participating in the program
 — 753 tests completed
Testing of operations employees who work on-site helps to keep our 
tenants safe. Read more about measures we are taking to ensure 
tenants can return to work safely in our Return to Operations plans ↗Case Study
HIVE App
HIVE is an app that allows us to help ensure the return to our 
corporate offices is done safely, while assisting employees with 
the transition to hybrid-work. The app houses our daily check-
in health questionnaire, where staff are prompted to self-assess 
for symptoms of COVID-19. HIVE also enables easy contact-
tracing, should we need to do so. Other features include helping to 
facilitate desk and space bookings, as well as allowing our teams 
to monitor office density. As of the publication of this report, we 
are trending at 90% reminder-less check-ins.
OEValuing employees
OEValuing employeesSocial
 
30Social
Volunteering & Giving 
We complement our community development projects with 
volunteering that supports vital social services and serves our 
communities’ most vulnerable populations.
Dream also encourages all employees to live our values by becoming involved 
with causes they care about. Employees are then evaluated on how well 
they lived the company’s values as part of the annual review process. Dream 
prioritizes charitable organizations both locally and nationally that support 
youth in sport, women in shelters, women’s health, youth services and 
homeless and marginalized communities. Each Dream entity also supports 
additional initiatives of their choosing.
Through our business and volunteering and giving initiatives, we are focused 
on improving the local economy and social fabric by supporting and 
partnering with local businesses and charities, contributing to community 
well-being and engaging citizens and our employees.
Our Approach
Regardless of position, tenure or title, we 
encourage every employee to do great things both 
inside and outside of the office. We recognize that 
some employees are active participants in their 
communities and want to help them give back. 
We offer employees:
One paid volunteering day  per year through our relationships with 
charitable organizations
$500 annually  through our employee donation program whereby 
we contribute to charitable organizations that employees are actively 
involved with 
$1,000   awarded to five recipients to contribute to a cause they believe 
in through our annual ETHOS awards peer nomination program
The option to donate all or part of their referral bonus to a charitable 
organization
“Social good is in our DNA. That’s why making an impact is one 
of our core company values. We seek to create positive social 
and environment change by running fundraisers, organizing 
campaigns or volunteering in the community.”
Cynthia Barria
Manager, Office Services
31In 2020, our local and National charitable 
partners include: 
Key AccomplishmentsThe Shoebox Project ↗
The Shoebox Project for Women collects and 
distributes gift-filled shoe-boxes to women impacted by 
homelessness in communities across Canada and the 
United States. Each thoughtfully created and decorated 
Shoebox is filled with items valued at $50 that can 
enhance self-esteem and reduce feelings of isolation for 
women in need.Minwaashin Lodge ↗
Minwaashin Lodge provides a range of programs and 
services to First Nations, Inuit and Métis women and 
children (regardless of status) who are survivors of 
domestic and other forms of violence.
Tropicana Community Services ↗
Tropicana Community Services offers a culturally 
aware and supportive program to those in need, with a 
predominant focus on the Caribbean, Black and African 
communities of Toronto. Rainbow Railroad ↗
Rainbow Railroad helps LGBTQ+ people escape state-
sponsored violence. Since 2006, Rainbow Railroad has 
helped more than 800 persecuted LGBTQ+ people from 38 
countries travel to safety.In 2021, Dream was named a 2021 
Best WorkplacesTM for Giving Back 
by Great Places to Work®
Case Study
Collect, Communicate and 
Share
We are proud of the work we do and the difference we can make 
in people’s lives. In 2020, we adopted an innovative approach 
to profile and support all the great community initiatives and 
programs we include in our annual sustainability report by 
developing the Collect, Communicate and Share program. As 
part of this program, we have committed to donate $1.00 per 
download of our sustainability report up to a maximum of 
$10,000 per year to support our charitable partners. 
SR
$800,000+
donated to charities by Dream group  
of companies
$2,500
donated to seven charities that provide assis-
tance to under-served communities in lieu of 
tenant gifts during the 2020 holiday season$10,000
donated from 2019 Sustainability 
Report downloads through our Collect, 
Communicate and Share program
$13,400
donated to local food-banks in lieu of holiday 
party as part of our Home for the Holidays 
employee initiativeCommunity / NGO partnershipsSocial
 
32Case Study
Front Line Dreamer
In lieu of holding a holiday party due to the ongoing COVID-19 
pandemic, Dream offered employees an option to thank front 
line employees through our Hero Program. Rather than receiving 
a holiday gift, an overwhelming amount of our staff chose to 
donate a $100 electronic gift card to front line employees to show 
their support for their hard work and dedication throughout the 
COVID-19 pandemic.  
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant impact 
on our ability to conduct volunteer or fundraising events with 
our charitable partners. At the same time, many charities are 
experiencing higher demand and staff and volunteer shortages. 
This pandemic has led us to re-examine our approach to 
volunteering and giving and we look forward to sharing more 
information on our future plans soon.Forward-looking Plans 
Dream is proud to have been able to 
continue to provide charitable support to 
our communities during the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
We continue to develop and implement initiatives to provide 
Dream employees different ways of giving back to their 
communities with time, money or items. We look forward to 
resuming higher levels of in-person volunteering and on-site 
fundraising events to help support post-pandemic recovery 
efforts in our communities.
In addition, we are developing community art programs 
in collaboration with local artists at properties as a way to 
inspire and bring communities together.Social
 
OEValuing employees
33Dream Group of Companies
Dream Industrial REIT
Dream Industrial REIT (TSX: DIR.UN) owns, manages, and operates a global 
portfolio of well-located, diversified distribution, urban logistics and light industrial 
properties across Canada, Europe and the U.S. We have access to highly experienced, 
local investments and asset management platforms that have a proven track record of 
creating long-term value. Our strategy is to invest in high-quality assets and markets that 
provide growing cash flow and net asset value over the long-term to our unitholders.
$5.3 billion
total assets(1)39.8 million
sq. ft. of leasable floor area(1)
98%
in-place and committed occupancy(1)
8
offices globally(1)221
assets(1)
78
employees(1)
(1)  All figures as of September 30, 2021.
Guldenweg 6  
Varsseveld, NL
34$400 Million
inaugural green bond issued(1)
Top 3
2021 GRESB rank for Public Disclosure 
among North America industrial group(1)1.2 Million
sq. ft. LED lighting upgrades(2)
Green 
Financing
framework established to integrate 
sustainable finance in our capital strategy3 MW
of installed solar capacity added  
at 9 properties1.4 Million
sq. ft. of buildings with green 
certifications including LEED, BREEAM 
and DGNB added to the portfolio2.36 Million
sq. ft. of green building certifications 
underway for 10 properties (including 
properties under development)(3) Tenant Survey
to determine satisfaction levels and 
measure interest in sustainable 
initiatives(1)
$34,296
paid out towards employee tuition 
and professional fees in 2020(4)$573 Million
available liquidity as of December 31, 
2020, from deleveraging effort and 
proactive financing strategies — 16 properties with bicycle storage acquired
 — 6 buildings with EV charging stations acquired
 — 3 MW of capacity of solar panels over 9 acquired properties
 — 2 properties acquired that utilize land for grazing** 
 — 17 MW of potential capacity from 30+ renewable energy projects assessed for 
feasibility 
63+37 100%
of properties assessed for climate 
change risk(1)Developed ESG 
Framework
outlining key milestones and operational 
initiatives with executive compensation 
linked to ESG metrics and deliverables 
of employees are women(4)
61%63%Environmental Social Governance 
of managers are women(4)Improved
accessibility through ramp installations 
and washroom upgrades at 5 buildings 
representing 190,000 sq. ft.(1)
96%
employee response rate for employee 
engagement satisfaction survey 
63+37Centralized
technology platform for marketing, 
leasing and asset management 
to improve tenant relationship 
management
Priemyselný Park 460,  
Kostolné Kračany, SlovakiaDream Industrial REIT
2020 Highlights
17 MW
of potential installed solar capacity from 
30+ renewable energy projects assessed  
for feasibility40 Assets
with energy ratings of EPC B or higher 
totaling 5.2 million sq. ft. Protected  
Employees
by ensuring rigorous health and safety 
measures were taken to during the 
COVID-19 pandemicImproved
financial resiliency by increased scale 
of portfolio to $3.2 billion in 2020, 
further diversified portfolio and tenant 
mix, and achieved an investment grade 
credit rating significantly improving our 
access to capitalOur sustainability strategy enables us to establish 
meaningful and realistic benchmarks, measure our progress 
and integrate our environmental and social obligations into 
the ways we manage our business and create value.
Top 25%
ESG Risk Rating. This represents  
a low risk(5)
(1)   Occurred as of September 30, 2021. 
(2)   Between January 1, 2020 and September 30, 2021.
(3)   Existing and forecasted building areas as of September 30, 2021. 
(4)   Includes only employees dedicated to Dream Industrial REIT activities and excludes employees on unpaid leaves of
absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave) and interns.
(5)   Based on 1,054 real estate companies rated by Sustainalytics globally.  As of December, 2021. 
Copyright ©2021 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This [publication/ article/ section] contains information developed by 
Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party 
suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an endorsement of 
any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a 
particular purpose. Their use is subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.
35Dream Industrial REIT
ESG Scorecard
6 Mesonweg,  
Utrecht, NLIndicator 2019(1)2020(1)
Energy
Cumulative percentage of total floor area with energy consumption data coverage(3)NA(2)28%
Cumulative percentage of eligible portfolio that has an energy rating(4)NA(2)25%
Annual mWh of renewable energy produced(5)2,507 2,975(6)
GHG Emissions
Cumulative percentage of total floor area with GHG data coverage(3)NA(2)28%
Water
Annual water savings from climate-controlled irrigation (litres)(7)15,667,000 13,331,000
Cumulative percentage of total floor area with water consumption data coverage(8)NA(2)42% 2021 Year-
to-date 
Progress (1) Building Lighting Upgrades
Cumulative total floor area with lighting upgrades (sq. ft.)(9)10.8M(13)11.4M 14.1M(10)
Green Building
Percentage of portfolio GLA with green building classification(11)2% 10% 17%(10)
Renewable Energy
Cumulative on-site solar PV system capacity (kW)(5)2,433 2,817(6)5,795
Cumulative percentage of total floor area with on-site renewable energy generation(5)(12)3.7% 4.2% 5.9%(10)
(1)    There has been a significant change in portfolio size in 2019, 2020 and 2021.The change is the result of acquisitions and dispositions of assets in the portfolio. Each year's
energy, GHG, water, building lighting upgrades, building classification and renewable energy data is based on the relevant properties owned for the full calendar year in that year. 
(2)    Metric was not calculated in 2019.   
(3)    Represents percentage of total GLA under EWRB regulation and GLA representing 100% floor area of properties where DIR.UN has operational control over energy
consumption including outdoor lighting and common areas.  
(4)    Energy ratings include GLA representing 100% of floor area of properties with Energy Star Portfolio Manager scores and Energy Performance Certificates (EPC) ratings 
(5)    Includes capacity from roof-top solar PV that is leased to third parties.  
(6)    Includes estimations from engineering calculations for some solar panel systems where production data was not provided.  
(7)    Data is based on 42 sites in Calgary.  
(8)    Represents percentage of total GLA under EWRB regulation, GLA representing 100% floor area of properties where DIR.UN has operational control over water and some
estimated water consumption from properties in Quebec. 
(9)    Includes T5 upgrades that were completed prior to 2019. Upgrades in 2020 and beyond are LED.  
(10)  As of 30 September 2021 and includes portfolio under U.S. Fund at 24.5% owned share.   
(11)  Green building classifications include LEED (Silver, Gold or Platinum), DGNB (Silver, Gold or Platinum), BREEAM (Very Good, Excellent or Outstanding), BOMA BEST (Silver,
Gold or Platinum), Green Globes (Two, Three, Four), Toronto Green Standards (Tier 2,3,4), EPC (level A or B).  
(12)  Represents total GLA of buildings with rooftop solar system. 
(13)  In 2019 Sustainability Report, we reported 11.3M sq ft with lighting upgrades; this value included 2020 Year-To-Date values and prior years. ESG Scorecard
Goals
Allocate at least $650M  to eligible green 
projects by 2025 (as per Green Financing 
Framework)
Upgrade an additional 5M sq. ft.  of portfolio 
to LED lighting by 2025 vs 2020 baseline
Pursue green building certifications for an 
additional 2.7 million sq ft. (includes LEED, 
BOMA or DGNB) by 2025 vs 2020 baseline
Determine feasibility for 17 MW  of solar 
photovoltaic installed capacity by 2025
Obtain green building certification (LEED, 
BOMA or DGNB) on 100%  of our new 
developments starting in 2022
Develop and implement sustainable roofing 
policy in 2022
Measure and disclose all energy, water and 
waste data for all operational buildings within 
defined boundary by 2025
36How Our ESG Framework 
Applies to DIR.UN
The following sections in this chapter will 
illustrate how we are addressing material ESG 
topics for DIR.UN and provide examples of how 
our industrial business contributes positively to 
social and environmental outcomes.
ESG topics that are a key priority for DIR.UN:Key Accomplishments
Within the real estate industry there is general agreement that in order for countries 
to meet the Paris Agreement all buildings will need to emit net zero GHG emissions 
by 2050. Leadership is needed to show the industry how this will be achieved sooner 
rather than later.  In 2021, we launched our Net Zero Steering Committee and 
announced our net zero goals for each Dream entity. 
Dream’s overarching commitment to Building Better Communities requires us to 
address climate change. Beyond the ESG and impact metrics and targets built into 
each of our projects, we are committed to an overall net zero approach, a thoughtful 
and specific approach to reducing carbon emissions in line with international 
standards and commitments. We look forward to sharing our net zero strategy in 2022, 
which will include best-in-class methodologies, science based interim targets, road-
maps and reporting requirements.
In 2021, DIR.UN will be supporting three voluntary international initiatives to 
demonstrate commitment to climate action and responsible investing: 
As part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment1, DIR.UN, is supporting the Net 
Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) Initiative↗ , which is a group of international asset managers 
committed to supporting the goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, 
in line with global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.
As part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment1, DIR.UN is supporting the United 
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI)↗ , which includes a group of more 
than 4,300 investment managers and asset owners from nearly 90 countries committed to 
developing a more sustainable global financial system.  
DIR.UN became an official supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) ↗ which provides guidance and recommendations to help companies 
provide better climate disclosures to support capital allocation. More than 2,300 companies 
support the TCFD and Dream is one of the first Canadian public real estate companies to 
become an official supporter. 
(1)  While DRM is the official signatory, DIR.UN will be an active participant and included in the boundary for reporting to the
NZAM initiative and UN PRI as part of the Dream group of companies’ commitment.
DIR.UN has committed to be net zero by 
2035 for operations including Scope 1 
and 2 emissions and net zero by 2050 for 
select Scope 3 emissions
Exportweg 20–20,  
Waddinxveen, NetherlandsFR SR OE BP —Certifications
 —Amenities and atmosphere
 —Climate change and 
resilience
 —Carbon and resource 
efficiency —ESG impact and 
management 
 —Valuing employees 
 —Tenant relationshipsDream Industrial REIT
 
37Dream Industrial REIT
Our ESG Approach
DIR.UN aspires to be a market leader in 
sustainability. 
We have a responsibility to manage and mitigate our 
overall impact on the environment. We recognize that 
sustainability and impact investing is fundamental to how 
we do business and is a key driver of creating long-term 
value for its stakeholders. 
Our approach to sustainability includes increasing energy 
efficiency throughout our portfolio, engaging tenants, 
lowering operational costs and incorporating energy 
management initiatives into our capital expenditures. 
At the property level, DIR.UN promotes energy 
efficiency amongst its tenants through education and 
awareness including coordination of energy audits with 
recommendations to reduce consumption and costs. As 
part of the asset management and investment processes, 
DIR.UN actively seeks to incorporate energy management 
initiatives into its capital plans. Sustainability initiatives 
that reduce resource intensity or increase building 
efficiency help to reduce costs for tenants and help make 
our buildings more leasable.
In 2020, we have taken action on many of our 2019 
forward-looking priorities as described in the following 
sections. In 2021, we furthered our commitment to 
sustainability by developing an ESG action plan and 
road-map to enhance our ESG approach and take 
meaningful steps towards implementing sustainability 
initiatives across the business. 
Hecto 1-3,  
Zevenaar, Netherlands
38Policy Development 
In 2021, we partnered with a third-party consultant to develop 
an enhanced suite of sustainability policies governing our 
management of capital investments, biodiversity, green building 
certifications, waste, sustainable procurement, and new 
developments. Numerous sessions were conducted to incorporate 
feedback from internal stakeholder teams including property 
management, leasing and investments.
Our updated energy conservation policy recognizes that energy 
consumption is an important part of lessening climate change as 
it outlines practices to reduce emissions and our carbon footprint.
Our new green building certification policy will enable DIR.UN to 
implement management practices to prioritize building efficiency, 
as it outlines practices to decrease operational costs, increase 
asset value, and ensure productivity, comfort, health, and 
wellbeing for occupants.
DIR.UN understands its part in minimizing the negative impact 
of its buildings on the environment. Our environmental policy 
is focused on providing holistic training to intensify in-house 
knowledge, and deliver the practical guidance and technical 
specifications necessary to identify, implement and measure 
sustainable improvements to our portfolio.  
These new policies will serve to broaden and formalize our 
commitment to advancing sustainability at DIR.UN and 
complement our existing sustainability policies for property 
operations including our Tenant Sustainability Handbook, 
Guide to Sustainable Building Operations, and Sustainable 
Procurement Policy for operations staff. Providing excellent 
communication and guidance to tenants and operations staff 
is important to ensuring operational practices are aligned with 
our sustainability priorities and goals. Implementation of our new 
policies is planned for 2022. Data Collection
Over the last year, we have employed multiple strategies 
to improve data coverage in our portfolio. These strategies 
include setting data collection requirements for our renewable 
energy initiatives in Alberta and Europe, setting a target for 
collecting data from areas under Dream’s operational control 
and single-tenant buildings, initiating a tenant outreach 
strategy to expand opportunities to improve data collection 
and tracking, as well as hiring a consultant to engage tenants 
on data collection. Ontario’s mandatory Energy and Water 
Reporting and Benchmarking (EWRB) program is an additional 
tool that has helped to bolster our data collection efforts for 
our properties in Ontario. Using these tactics, we improved data 
coverage by 28% from 2019 to 2020. 
We are working on several initiatives to make further improvements 
in our data coverage including tenant education and awareness 
and partnering with industry leading consulting firms.
In 2021, we conducted a tenant survey to benchmark tenant 
sustainability priorities and goals, identify priority initiatives 
and assets for sustainability investments, and provide 
insight into opportunities to broker new sustainability-related 
partnerships. The majority of the respondents indicated 
an interest in sustainable initiatives and we will be holding 
feedback sessions with tenant sustainability teams to review 
results, develop action plans and discuss the importance of 
integrating energy, water and emission data collection to 
inform the process. Dream Industrial REIT
 
2360 Cornwall Road  
Oakville, ONWe improved data coverage 
by 28% from 2019 to 2020. 
39Dream Industrial REIT
Environmental
GHG, Energy & Water Management:
DIR.UN is actively focused on managing the carbon 
footprint of our buildings and pursuing energy efficiency in 
our assets wherever possible.
Our strategy is built on two key pillars – data collection and portfolio 
optimization.
Data Collection  - We are developing a robust system to efficiently collect 
and track energy usage and emissions data across our global portfolio. Our 
primary focus will be to collect, report and establish targets on emissions for 
which we have operational control, including company facilities and vehicles 
and utilities that we pay for and manage directly, such as multi-tenant 
exterior lighting and house meters. We will continue to focus on improving 
the coverage and quality of data as we collect it, which will include utility 
bill reviews with data analytics and the potential implementation of real-time 
data monitoring. In addition, we will work with our tenants to understand 
their energy usage and provide support to identify trends, demand spikes 
and efficiency challenges.  By working with our tenants to understand their 
emissions, we will also gain valuable information to guide our strategy to 
improve sustainability across our portfolio.
Portfolio Optimization  - DIR.UN has been developing a GHG emissions 
methodology to target and measure reductions wherever feasible across our 
global portfolio. We are utilizing several levers such as improving sustainable 
measures across our portfolio through energy efficient lighting, better 
roofing, sustainable landscaping and investments in clean power. We also 
strive to minimize our use of potable water and decrease water consumption 
where possible through irrigation monitoring and water fixture upgrades. In 
addition, DIR.UN continues to allocate capital towards sustainable buildings 
that are certified green through standards such as LEED, BREEAM, DGNB, 
BOMA BEST and Green Globes. We plan to further sustainable capital 
allocation through the usage of low carbon material in the construction of our 
rapidly expanding development pipeline. We have provided further details on 
each of these initiatives in this section.
300 Orenda Road  
Brampton,  ON
Green Lease Strategy 
In 2021,  DIR.UN upgraded our standard lease to a green lease based 
on Green Lease Leader Guidelines and will be adopting a green lease as 
a standard going forward. 
Notable clauses within our  green lease  include commitments to tenant energy disclosures, 
green construction practices,  the purchase of on-site renewable energy (if available), and 
tenant energy efficiency engagement and training. In addition, cost recovery clauses 
for energy efficient upgrades will allow DIR.UN to recoup and amortize capital costs for 
upgrades that will contribute to emissions reductions. Our tenant welcome package is 
also being updated to provide tenants with a sustainability contact at Dream Industrial, 
and will incorporate policies and guidance on biodiversity, sustainable design and 
operations, waste management, sustainable procurement, and green cleaning.   
40Green buildings
Energy efficiency
Renewable energy
Sustainable water and  
 wastewater management
The Framework has been reviewed by DNV, a global leader in pioneering 
green, social, and sustainable financial frameworks. In addition, DIR.UN 
has established a Green Financing Committee which will be responsible for 
evaluating and approving eligible projects for green financing, in accordance 
with the evaluation criteria set out in the Green Financing Framework. The 
Green Financing Committee is a cross-departmental committee co-chaired 
by the COO and CFO and made up of senior executives representing the 
following relevant departments at DIR.UN: Finance, Sustainability and 
Portfolio Management. The Committee meets at least once annually to review 
and approve eligible projects and existing allocation of proceeds. 
More Information 
Dream Industrial REIT Green Financing Framework↗Green Financing  
DIR.UN continues to allocate significant capital towards 
sustainable initiatives within its existing portfolio as well as 
towards new investment opportunities.
To efficiently facilitate this endeavor, DIR.UN has established a Green 
Financing Framework, which allows it to raise capital in support of its 
sustainable investment strategy. Under the Framework, DIR.UN, or any 
of its subsidiaries, may issue green bonds, green loans or other financial 
instruments to finance or re-finance eligible green projects that are aligned 
to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and encompass the 
following categories: 
Clean transportation
Biodiversity and conservation 
Pollution prevention and control
Adaptability and resilience to 
climate change
Green Projects Completed
Green-certified Buildings  
and EPC Labelled Buildings(1)(2) LED Upgrades 
Canada $40M $1.3M
Europe $247M -
Total $287M $1.3M
(1)  As of September 30, 2021. 
(2)  Excludes green certifications underway for new developments and expansions.We have identified a further $240M of eligible green projects that are 
currently underway including green building certifications in our existing 
portfolio and investments in clean power. These eligible projects could be 
applied to future green bond issuances, including our second green bond 
for $250M which is expected to close in early December 2021.  We expect 
that these projects will be completed by early to mid-2022 and more eligible 
projects will be initiated as we expand our portfolio of green-certified 
buildings and commence more renewable energy installations.
Green Projects Currently Underway:
Green Projects Underway
Green-certified Buildings(1)(2) Investments in  
Clean Power 
Canada $138M $2.3M
Europe $96M $2.5M
Total $234M $4.8MIn order to allow its various stakeholders to assess its progress on its green 
financing program, DIR.UN will provide annual updates in accordance with 
the Green Financing Framework. Updates will also be available on its website 
until the net proceeds of any green financing are fully allocated to eligible 
green projects. 
In 2021, DIR.UN issued a $400 million inaugural Green Bond and is well 
underway in allocating the proceeds towards its sustainable investment 
plans. To date, DIR.UN has financed, refinanced, or completed over $288 
million of eligible green projects.   
The table below summarizes the allocation of the proceeds that have been 
completed to date:
(1)  As of September 30, 2021. 
(2)  In compliance with the Green Bond Framework.650 rue Bergeron,  
Drummondville, QC  Dream Industrial REIT
 
41Renewable Energy 
We are continually exploring opportunities to invest in clean power in our 
Canadian and European portfolios. Capital investments in solar panels 
provide DIR.UN with an opportunity to significantly reduce GHG emissions 
while creating a financially viable revenue stream. It also offers an element 
of cost certainty to our tenants in an unpredictable energy market. Including 
existing panels, we are targeting to install over 50,000 solar panels across 3.5 
million sq. ft., representing over 10% of our total portfolio as of September 
30, 2021. 
In Western Canada, we are working with the Energy Savings for Business 
subsidy from Emissions Reduction Alberta to install up to 6,300 roof-top 
solar panels on several buildings in our portfolio. We are also progressing 
on a feasibility assessment of the installation of up to 31,700 solar panels 
in the Netherlands, pursuant to the subsidy that was granted by the Dutch 
government in 2020. Additional solar projects are being assessed and we will 
continue to seek opportunities to expand the scale of our renewable energy 
projects in Europe.
LED
Lighting is one of the most significant and consistent sources of energy 
consumption and utility costs in our portfolio. LED (light emitting diodes) 
lights require substantially less energy, have a longer lifespan, produce 
less heat and provide more illumination than conventional lighting such as 
incandescent bulbs.  DIR.UN is focused on transitioning our interior and 
exterior lighting to LEDs. We continue to optimize opportunities to upgrade 
lighting when tenants renew or when space is returned to us. 
In addition, we have commenced an outreach program to increase tenant 
awareness of the environmental and financial benefits of LED technology and 
provide them with an opportunity to upgrade lighting during their lease term. 
Our 2021 tenant survey identified that more than 80% of the respondents 
are interested in pursuing LED retrofits on their premises, which demonstrates 
that our LED outreach program has been very well received. DIR.UN is 
committed to improving energy efficiency through lighting retrofit projects.
(1)  The above indicators exclude LED retrofits for external areas of the building. 
(2)  Note: Upgrades completed in 2020 were lower than average due to adherence to COVID-19
public health restrictions during lockdown periods.(1)   Existing in Canada and Europe includes solar capacity that is leased to third parties. 
(2)   Projects identified under planning are in feasibility assessment phase as of Sept 30, 2021; not
  all projects may proceed due to feasibility. Existing  
(as of Q3 2021) (1)
Capacity (kW)Under development
Capacity (kW)Planning(2)
Capacity (kW)Total
Capacity (kW)
Canada 3,102 1,668 1,189 5,959
Europe 2,693 2,401 11,905 16,999
Total Capacity (kW) 5,795 4,069 13,094 22,958
2019 2020(2)2021 YTD
LED Upgrades (in sq ft)(1)631,259 556,000 704,738
LED Upgrades (in $)(1)643,885 604,000 683,614LED UpgradesSolar Panels - Estimated System Capacity (kW)
Eiffelstrasse 4  
Herbrechtingen, Germany
5380 Timberlea Boulevard  
Mississauga, ONDream Industrial REIT
 
In 2021 we established a target to upgrade one million sq. ft. 
of GLA to LED in the year. We are tracking to meet our 2021 
target, a total of 705,000 sq. ft. of GLA was upgraded to LED 
lighting during the first three quarters of 2021.
42Sustainable Roofing 
Sustainable roofs can both save energy 
consumption and produce renewable energy. 
Energy savings can be achieved using properly insulated 
roofing systems, while white roofs save energy during 
the air-conditioning season by reflecting sunlight and 
reducing heat absorption. In addition, white roofs help 
mitigate heat-island effects in urban areas, reducing air 
pollution and global warming. 
DIR.UN has integrated sustainable attributes into our 
standard specifications for roof repairs and replacements 
and is committed to identifying opportunities to improve 
insulation and utilize light reflecting materials in our 
roofing projects. Prior to commencing any major roof 
work, we evaluate if a building is a potential candidate 
for rooftop renewable energy and will adapt the roof 
specifications to ensure the roof is solar ready.  
We intend to launch a broader roofing upgrade program 
in our portfolio and will be targeting to install insulated 
roofing systems with sustainable attributes covering over 
2 million sq. ft. over the near to medium term. 
Case Study
Green Roofs
Our 182,000 square foot building in Offenau, Germany has 
an extensive green roof, which is covered with a layer of low-
profile, self sustaining plants with no artificial irrigation.  The 
roof construction consists of metal decking and is covered with 
insulation and synthetic roofing membrane. The main roof 
parts are intensive green roofs with integrated roof light domes. 
Rainwater is discharged via irrigation. The addition of this green 
roof to our portfolio will provide our property management teams 
with valuable and transferable insight into the structure and 
performance of green roofs that can be considered for applications 
elsewhere in our portfolio in the future.  
FR
Portfolio Area with Cool Roofing (in sq. ft.) 
2019 6.1M
2020 6.8M
2021 YTD 11.2M(1)
(1)  Includes US portfolio at 100%.
Talweg 40  
Offenau, GermanyDream Industrial REIT
 
Carbon and resource efficiency
Climate change resilience
Waste Reduction 
DIR.UN aims to reduce the ecological footprint of its portfolio 
wherever feasible and actively contribute to the long-term 
sustainability for all our projects by taking an integrative 
approach. We actively seek opportunities to integrate aspects 
of circularity into our renovation and construction projects.  In 
Calgary, we secured 14,000 sq. ft. of slightly used carpet that 
was being disposed of from a downtown office tower and installed 
the carpet in a show suite and several smaller tenant spaces. 
Our contractors in Quebec track the recycling of demolished 
construction materials on mid to large size projects.Emil-Lux-Str. 1  
Wermelskirchen, Germany  
43Sustainable Buildings
Green building certifications help us incorporate a range 
of sustainability features into our properties and provide 
tenants and investors with credible proof points of ESG 
features of buildings.
As part of our ESG action plan, we are currently evaluating the scope of work 
required to obtain certification on an initial set of seven buildings in Canada and 
Europe. We are also incorporating green certification criteria into our development 
strategy and are targeting LEED certification on two building expansions that are 
currently under construction in Canada. We are also targeting DGNB Gold on a 
project that is in the planning stages in Radeberg, Germany.
In addition, we are actively expanding our portfolio of green certified 
buildings through our investment pipeline in Canada and Europe. In 2020, 
we acquired over 2 million sq. ft. of buildings with an Energy Performance 
Certificate (EPC) rating of B or higher. In 2021, we have acquired over 3 
million sq. ft. of buildings with an EPC rating of B or higher, including one 
building that is certified BREEAM Excellent, two buildings that are certified 
BREEAM Very Good and one building that is certified DGNB Gold. We also 
acquired a building that is certified LEED Gold. Case Study
Pursuing Green  
Building Certifications
DIR.UN partnered with a tenant in 2021 to conduct a feasibility 
assessment to obtain LEED O&M Silver on a 30,000 sq. ft. 
building in Calgary.  The feasibility assessment was successful 
and the certification process will be completed in early 2022.  The 
building is outperforming buildings of similar size and occupancy, 
both locally and globally in water use. The certification will 
expand our portfolio of green certified buildings, and aligns with 
our tenant’s sustainability goals and commitments. Case Study
Green Building Certifications 
in Development
DIR.UN is pursuing the development of a 241,544 sq. ft. logistic 
center in Radeberg, Germany, intensifying excess land in our 
portfolio. German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) Gold 
certification will be pursued and the building total performance 
score is projected between 65% and 85%. The building roof is 
being designed with the intent to install solar panels in the future.  
DIR.UN is planning an initial installation of two EV charging 
stations with the capacity to add more stations based on tenant 
demand. Biodiversity has been given special consideration for this 
project as the existing brownfield site is being redeveloped without 
affecting the surrounding area.  
Certification and  
Energy Ratings
LEED BREEAM BOMA BEST DGNB EPC B  
and above
Certified buildings  
(in sq. ft.)244,805 690,487 351,306 269,161 5,190,774
In progress including 
developments underway   
(in sq. ft.)1,629,778 486,830 - 569,478 -
Total GLA (in sq. ft.) 1,874,583 1,177,317 351,306 838,639 5,190,774
(1)   Based on assets in portfolio as of September 30, 2021. Some properties may have more than one green building certification or classification.
Developments underway include building expansions and new developments which are either under construction or in advanced planning.
The LEED® certification trademark is owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and is used with permission.
BREEAM is a registered trademark of BRE (the Building Research Establishment Ltd. Community Trade Mark E5778551).  
The BREEAM marks, logos and symbols are the Copyright of BRE and are reproduced by permission.BP
BP
Radeberg  
Germany, EU
2876 Sunridge Way NE  
Calgary, ABDream Industrial REIT
 
Carbon and resource efficiency
Certifications
Connectivity
CertificationsCertification and Energy Ratings Chart:(1)FR
44Sustainable Development:
Dream Industrial has an active development 
program. Our development strategy has three key 
components:
1. New development
2. Intensification of excess land on our income-producing 
properties 
3. Redevelopment of existing properties
Our near-term development program is comprised of 10 
intensification, new development and redevelopment projects 
across North America and Europe with a target GLA of 
approximately 3.7 million sq. ft. For additional details on our 
development projects, please refer to Dream Industrial REIT MD&A.
Our buildings are the largest contributor to our environmental 
footprint. In addition to building best-in-class, modern logistics 
premises that meet the requirements of our occupiers, we are 
pursuing industry leading building technologies with the objective 
to maximize the energy efficiency of our portfolio and minimize 
the environmental footprint from the construction process and the 
operation of the building following completion. Our approach to sustainability in our development 
program includes: 
Green Certifications – our goal is to obtain green building 
certification on 100% of our new developments.   
Building Design – we are pursuing modern building design 
elements in our development projects including:  
• High efficiency wall and roofing insulation 
•  White, cool roofing surfaces 
•  Roofs structurally ready for installation of solar panels* 
• Enhanced natural light in the warehouse through 
additional glazing or skylights
• High efficiency HVAC units
• LED lighting with sensor motion control 
• High efficiency docks seals or vertical dock levelers  
Circularity of Building Materials – we are actively pursuing 
opportunities to enhance circularity and recycling of materials 
on our redevelopment projects.    
Sustainable Procurement – DIR.UN intends to expand its 
Sustainable Procurement Policy to include our development and 
construction projects 
Carbon Footprint – we are in the process of investigating 
strategies and technologies to pursue carbon-neutral 
construction in the near future.   
* Targeting solar ready roofs for larger projects that pass the initial economic feasibility for
solar installation  Projects 401 Marie-Curie Boulevard 100 East Beaver Creek Abbotside Drive Radeberg
Project type Intensification / expansion Intensification / expansion New Development Intensification/ expansion
Construction volume 230,000 sq. ft. 44,000 sq. ft. 152,000 sq. ft. 241,000 sq. ft.
Target green building 
certificationLEED Silver LEED Certified or Silver LEED Certified or Silver DGNB Gold
High efficiency wall and roofing 
insulation√ √ √ √
Cool/white roofs √ √ √ √
Solar ready roofs n/a n/a √ √
High efficiency HVAC √ √ √ √
LED lighting √ √ √ √
Enhanced natural light √ √ √ √
High efficiency dock seals √ √ √ √
401 Marie-Curie Boulevard  
Montreal, QC, Canada
100 East Beaver Creek  
Richmond Hill, ON, CanadaAbbotside Drive  
Caledon, ON, CanadaRadeberg, Germany
 401 Marie-Curie Phase 1 Expansion  
Montreal, QC, CanadaOur goal is to obtain green 
building certification on 100%  
of our new developments. Dream Industrial REIT
 
The table below summarizes the sustainable attributes of some of our near-term development 
projects that are in the advanced stages of planning and building design: 
DIR.UN Q3 Report↗
45Flooding 
Earthquake   
Wildfire   
WindstormTornado   
Hailstorm   
Lightning  
Case Study
Climate Controlled  
Water Management
We use climate-controlled irrigation at 42 of our sites in Calgary. 
The system uses real-time weather data from specialized water 
management weather stations to automatically adjust watering 
based on the best horticultural practices. Water schedules are 
programmed to meet specific landscape needs and detailed site 
assessments. The system also monitors seasonal performance 
to analyze opportunities for efficiencies. In 2020, we conserved 
13,331,000 litres of water, equivalent to five Olympic sized 
swimming pools.
FRCase Study
Responding to COVID-19
DIR.UN responded to the impact of the pandemic on our tenants 
through a comprehensive outreach program. Our teams connected 
directly with 100% of our tenants within the first 60 days of the 
lockdown.  We proactively offered a rent deferral program to 
tenants in need of financial assistance, to support the continuity 
of their business operations in uncertain times.  In addition, we 
provided extensive support to our tenants in the filing of their 
CECRA applications, to ensure they met application deadlines 
and submitted all required documentation. 
SR OE
Number of At-Risk Assets from Flooding(1)
DIR.UN 50-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)(2)100-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)(2)
1 86,000 13 1,900,000
200-year 
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)(2)500-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)(2)
17 2,400,000 14 2,600,000
(1)  Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated
in the figures in the other time categories. Changes from 2020 are the result of acquisitions or 
dispositions of assets since the previous reporting year. 
(2)  Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA). As at September 30, 2021.Physical Climate Risks
We conduct analysis on an annual basis to identify physical climate risks 
in our portfolio across each of our entities and assess the level of resiliency. 
Climate resiliency describes the actions to prepare, adapt and endure 
the shocks and stressors we face related to climate change. The goal of 
climate resilience is to reduce the likelihood and impact of a catastrophic or 
disruptive event on our properties and in our communities.  
Using third-party climate data, we assessed the physical climate risk at each 
property in DIR.UN’s portfolio against the following hazards:
We are committed to improving the resilience of our properties from the effects 
of physical climate risks. Using this analysis, we will be able to identify specific 
regions and properties with increased climate risk and identify opportunities to 
improve resilience through ongoing capital and operations investments.
As part of the physical climate risk analysis, we have updated the flood risk 
and catastrophic loss risk assessment in 2021 to identify properties in our 
portfolio that are at risk of losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year floods. Our 
next step in this process is to develop a plan to increase resilience to flooding 
and water damage and ensure there are supporting emergency management 
and business continuity procedures in place. 
3916 61st Avenue, 
Calgary, ABDream Industrial REIT
 
ESG risk management
Tenant relationships
Carbon and resource efficiency
46Case Study
EV Charging Stations
Impact 83, a 158,000 sq.ft. property just outside the town of 
Duiven, Netherlands currently has 42 EV charging stations 
installed that are used by our tenant’s employees. The building 
also has an EPC label of ‘A’ that highlights the energy efficiency 
of the building. Our portfolio currently includes a total of eleven 
buildings with over 50 charging stations for electric vehicles.  
In 2021 DIR.UN used our tenant outreach program to assess 
if tenants would like to have access to EV charging stations in 
our buildings, and 65% of respondents expressed interest. Going 
forward, we will be expanding the number of charging stations 
with a program that will align with our tenants’ requirements.
FRBP
100 East Beaver Creek,  
Richmond Hill, ON6 Lipariweg, 
Amsterdam, NLCase Study
LEED Certification  
Existing + Expansion
Construction is currently underway to build a 44,000 
sq.ft. expansion to the existing facility located at 100 East 
Beaver Creek Road in Richmond Hill, with an initial target 
of LEED Core & Shell certification for the expansion 
area.  The design of the building expansion contemplates 
each of the eight LEED categories to maximize energy 
performance, minimize the carbon footprint and contribute 
to a healthy indoor environment for the occupants.  In a 
parallel process, DIR.UN has also initiated LEED for Operations and Maintenance certification of the existing 
110,000 sq.ft. building. At the completion of both 
certifications, and once the appropriate commissioning is 
complete, DIR.UN plans to align and advance LEED status 
by re-certifying the entire building to achieve LEED Silver 
accreditation. Our phased approach to LEED certification 
creates an opportunity to optimize building performance in 
our existing portfolio while executing our strategy to design 
and build sustainable developments.Dream Industrial REIT
 
Case Study
Alveole Beehive
In 2020, DIR.UN partnered with Alveole to install a beehive 
at Glenmore Park in Calgary. The hive contains approximately 
50,000 bees during peak season in July and early August. Alveole 
visits the hive every 3 weeks to monitor health and productivity and 
perform maintenance. Annually, each hive produces approximately 
100 jars of delicious honey that we share with our tenants.
Our beehive is a unique tenant engagement tool that helps to 
promote positive attitudes toward protecting biodiversity in our 
local ecosystem. 
SRTenant relationships
Carbon and resource efficiency
Strong relationships
CertificationsCertifications
SR BP
Glenmore Park,  
Calgary, AB
47Case Study
Sustainable Attributes in  
New Acquisitions
Sustainability plays a significant role in our capital allocation 
decisions including our acquisition, development, and capital 
expenditure programs. In 2021, we acquired assets with a broad 
range of sustainable attributes including 182,000 sq.ft. of green 
roofs with self-sustaining plants, 16 properties with bicycle 
storage, 11 buildings with EV charging stations, 10 properties 
with solar panels comprising over 3 MW of capacity, 2 properties 
that utilize land for grazing, and a property with a beehive. 
When we evaluate potential acquisitions our due diligence 
process identifies a building’s sustainable attributes including EV 
charging stations, solar rooftop PV systems, bike storage, type 
of roof (white and green roofs), green building certifications, 
physical climate risk assessment and energy performance ratings 
(such as EPC and ESPM). We are continually updating our due 
diligence policy to stay current with technological advances in 
sustainability and regulatory requirements to ensure that we 
identify all existing sustainable attributes as well as opportunities 
to improve sustainability in the future.     
Case Study
Renewable Energy  
in Alberta
In 2020, DIR.UN commissioned feasibility assessments on over 
10 properties in Alberta to assess the viability of installing roof-
top solar PV systems. We are partnering with our tenants to 
provide them with the opportunity to purchase zero-emission 
energy to power their operations.  We have commenced two of 
the projects in 2021, and the remaining projects are in the final 
phase of review, with a total potential system capacity of 2.9 MW.
FR
6 Rue de Poitou,  
Bretigny sur Orge, FRDream Industrial REIT
 
ESG and impact management
ESG risk management
Newtonstraat 35  
Heerhugowaard, NL
6 Rue de Poitou,  
Bretigny sur Orge, FR
Lipariweg 6  
Amsterdam, NL
Parc des Béliers  
Brebieres, FR
OESRTenant relationships
Carbon and resource efficiency
48Dream Industrial REIT
Social
DIR.UN’s success as an organization comes 
from our strong and diverse workforce.
Over the past year, we have developed many initiatives 
and programs to support our employees during this 
challenging time. We are committed to promoting the 
highest standards of social responsibility throughout our 
organization and aim to improve the lives of everyone who 
works at Dream.  
Our people come from a wide range of backgrounds and 
places, bringing many valuable skills and perspectives 
to our team. The people we hire all have one thing in 
common: they share our company values and contribute 
to our company culture. 
Total Men WomenAge 
Under 30Age  
30-50Age  
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
CanadaUnited 
StatesEurope
New Hires(1)11 7 4 3 7 1 8 3 - -
Voluntary 
Turnover Rate(2) 9 % 5% 4% 3% 3% 3% 8% 1% - -60+40
39+61Gender Breakdown*
Employees
Managers
Executive Team**38%  Women
61% Women
34%* Women62% Men
39%  Men
66%* Men
**  Includes employees at all levels.
**  Executives of Dream Industrial are employees of
Dream Asset Management Corporation however the
CFO of DIR.UN is a woman, while the CEO and 
COO are men.
As of December 31, 2020, the average length of 
service for DIR.UN employees is 4.7 years.*
(1)  Includes only employees dedicated to Dream Industrial REIT and excludes employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental leave
and interns. 
(2) Turnover is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2020. (1) Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Industrial REIT and excludes employees on unpaid leaves of absence (e.g., permanent disability, long-term disability, parental
leave) and interns.
(2) Numbers represented as total headcount, not full time equivalent.
(3) Includes permanent part-time employees.
(4) Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week.DIR.UN - Employee Summary
 New Hires and Turnover Rates*
Employee (1)(2) Total Men Women Central Canada Western Canada Europe
Permanent(3)78 30 48 53 25 0
Contract 2 0 2 2 0 0
Full-time(4)80 30 50 55 25 0
Part-time 0 0 0 0 0 0
$761,065
donated to charities and NGOs by 
DRM, DIR.UN’s asset manager in 2020. 66+34
49Case Study
Enhancements of Tenant 
Outdoor Space
We are continually seeking ways to enhance our tenants' 
experience and access to outdoor spaces.  At Glenmore Centre in 
Calgary, we added an additional 15 all weather picnic tables along 
with 10 bicycle racks for the 130+ tenants in the park, and worked 
with the City’s Urban Forest Planner to replace trees and enhance 
planting with local native species.  The landscape improvements 
benefit the business park as well as the surrounding community by 
promoting biodiversity.  At another property in Lachine, Quebec, 
we installed 7 outdoor picnic tables for our tenants. 
BPEmployee Engagement Survey
In 2021, as part of an initiative pursued by the entire Dream 
Group of Companies, we conducted an employee engagement 
survey to better understand employee satisfaction across a 
variety of topics.
The survey was deployed by Great Place to Work® Canada, as part of our 
certification process to be recognized as a Great Place to Work®, and we 
achieved an 86% participation rate. The Great Place to Work® certification  
is based upon the following factors:  
 — The level of trust that employees have in leadership 
 — The level of pride employees have in their jobs 
 — The extent to which employees get along with colleagues 
The survey results provided our People & Culture team with meaningful 
insights regarding employees’ satisfaction with our benefit program and 
leadership’s communication throughout the pandemic. For example: 
84%  of respondents agreed that “the organization’s current health 
benefits program (Medical, Dental, Employee Assistance Plan, 
Telemedicine, Health Spending Accounts, League etc.) meets or 
exceeds my needs"
97%  of respondents agreed that “Leadership has been keeping us 
informed of the emergency measures’ impact on the business during 
the COVID-19 pandemic"
96%  of respondents agreed that  “Leadership has kept me well-
informed of measures being taken by the organization to protect 
employees during the COVID-19 pandemic"
Glenmore Centre  
Calgary, ABDream Industrial REIT
 
Amenities and atmosphere
50Tenant Engagement Survey 
DIR.UN conducted a tenant engagement and 
satisfaction survey in 2021 to benchmark and 
enhance tenant satisfaction.
Sustainability-related questions have been incorporated into 
the survey to help us to better understand tenant sustainability 
preferences, identify priority assets for sustainability 
investments, such as rooftop solar and EV charging stations, 
and provide insight into opportunities to broker new 
sustainability-related partnerships. As part of this process,  
we are holding feedback sessions with tenant sustainability  
teams to discuss results and develop action plans.
Of the respondents:
71%  have shown interest in using renewable energy for 
their energy requirements. Dream Industrial’s progress 
in roof top solar projects and continuous research and 
analyses on other sources of renewable energy will 
address the interest of our tenants in getting access to 
cleaner forms of energy.
80% are interested in pursuing LED retrofits in their 
premises, which will inform our LED retrofit planning.
64%  of respondents have expressed interest in green building 
certifications, which we will align with our green certification 
program for our portfolio.  
55% are interested in installing EV charging stations  
at their buildings.
The insights gathered from the survey will inform DIR.UN’s 
ESG strategy and create opportunities to align tenant 
requirements with improved operational efficiencies.  
Going forward, DIR.UN will continue to conduct annual 
tenant surveys and will incorporate the results into our 
sustainability and portfolio management practices.
Case Study
Making our Buildings  
More Inclusive
We installed accessibility ramps at two buildings to enhance the 
access to the buildings. One ramp will service a 58,000 sq. ft. two 
story building currently occupied by 8 tenants and the second 
ramp will serve a two story 25,000 sq. ft. building. Accessible 
washrooms were also installed at both buildings. 
BPTenant Service  
Our management team and staff are committed to 
providing customer service excellence and continually 
improving the quality of our services through efficient 
property management, value-added services for our 
tenants and capital improvements to our assets. Our 
top priority is providing a physical environment that 
contributes to the well-being of our tenants and the 
success of their business. An important part of our 
success is our vertically integrated property management 
operations, which includes tenant services and property 
operations, lease administration accounting and 
reporting, and in-house construction management and 
leasing capabilities. We also provide tenants with a web-
enabled response system, dreamplus, that puts them 
in control of their needs with the ability to submit and 
monitor service requests online.  Updates that we issued 
to our tenants during the pandemic were communicated 
through dreamplus.
Glenmore Centre  
Calgary, ABDream Industrial REIT
 
Amenities and atmosphere
Health, safety and wellness
↗
51Dream Industrial REIT
Governance
As part of the ESG Framework, DIR.UN links ESG performance to executive  
and employee goals and compensation.
Sustainability at DIR.UN is managed by the following:  
Role Responsibility
Governance, Compensation and Environmental Committee Provide oversight of sustainability at the Board level 
ESG Executive CommitteeAdopt ESG Framework for each Dream entity 
Communicate sustainability strategy and commitment across company and key 
external stakeholders  
Delegate implementation to each entity’s sustainability and ESG team 
Report to the Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee  
Green Finance CommitteeA cross-departmental committee co-chaired by the COO and CFO and made 
up of senior executives representing the following departments at DIR: Finance, 
Sustainability and Portfolio Management
Established to provide oversight of DIR.UN's Green Bond Framework and to identify 
sustainable financing options
Sustainability and ESG TeamOversee and manage portfolio sustainability initiatives including  building 
certifications, energy, water and waste management and monitoring, as well as 
strategic initiatives 
Meet quarterly with the Sustainability Executive Committee
Sustainability Working GroupsResponsible for advancing sustainability initiatives and activities at company and 
property level
Includes four working groups covering the following focus areas: Green Property 
Operations, Employee Engagement, Tenant Engagement, Reporting and 
Communications 
Includes representatives from central functions, regions and properties 
Report monthly to the Sustainability and ESG teamGovernance, Compensation and Environmental Committee Members
Ben Mulroney
ChairJ. Michael Knowlton
MemberVicky Schiff
Member
* as of December, 2021.
25+75
25+7575% of DIR. UN Directors 
are independent*
25% of DIR.UN 
Directors are women*
52Financial Risk and Resilience 
We significantly improved the strength of our balance 
sheet and our financial resiliency in 2020.
We increased the scale of our portfolio in 2020 to $3.2 billion,  and 
further diversified our portfolio and tenant mix.  
We increased our unencumbered asset pool from $100 million or 
3.3% of total assets at the end of 2019 to $1.4 billion  or 41%  of 
assets at the end of 2020. 
In 2020, DIR.UN achieved an investment grade credit rating 
significantly improving our access to capital. 
As of December 31, 2020, our available liquidity amounted to 
$573 million  as a result of our deleveraging efforts as well as our 
proactive financing strategies. We have a comprehensive insurance 
program benchmarked regularly against peers and other public 
entities of our size and scale.67+18+15 67%
Canada15%
Europe
18%
U.S.Investment Properties by Region Industry Exposure by Annualized Gross RentInvestment Property Value
19+6+8+10+10+10+10+13+1414%
Diversified Industries19%
Other(1)
8%
Technical Services
10%
Consumer goods10%
Residential6%
Paper, Printing, and  
Packaging
10%
Auto10%
Food and beverage13%
LogisticsMarket Capitalization
2020 2020 2019 2019 2018 2018$2.1 $1.0$2.4$2.0$3.2$2.2
53% Growth114% GrowthBillions
Billions$3.5 $2.5
$3.0 $2.0
$2.5 $1.5
$2.0 $1.0
$1.5 $0.5
$1.0 $0
(1)  Comprising of 15 sectors each representing 5% or less.Dream Industrial REIT
 
53Dream Industrial REIT
 
Green Property Operations
The DIR.UN Green Property Operations group is responsible for integrating 
environmental sustainability in property operations. With input from across 
the regions we operate in, the working group supports the development 
and rollout of policy, programs, guidelines and tools to manage projects for 
energy, water, and waste management, procurement, leasing and marketing, 
and tenant engagement.Employee Engagement
By hosting social activities, organizing personal development programs and 
arranging inter-office competitions, the Employee Engagement works group 
works to raise awareness of sustainability practices throughout the Dream 
group of companies. The group encourages employees to understand and 
support commitments to sustainability, and measures progress, objectives, 
and activity effectiveness.Tenant Engagement
Through the leadership provided by our Tenant Engagement team, DIR works 
with tenants to share what Dream is doing to improve sustainability within 
our assets. The team supports tenants’ efforts to increase sustainability by 
working with sustainability committees and/or internal green committees 
to ensure that their sustainability efforts are supported. The group hosts 
activities to encourage tenants to be environmentally conscious, identify 
areas where efforts need further support and works to ensure high levels of 
satisfaction with the services provided.
Sustainability Reporting & Communications
Reporting and communicating our sustainability commitments, both 
internally and externally, are imperative to ensuring our success in reaching 
our Dream group of companies’ sustainability goals. This entails sharing 
information through newsletters, promoting DIR.UN’s efforts at conferences, 
increasing data and disclosure on DIR.UN’s website and publishing an annual 
external sustainability report.Profile: Sustainability Working Groups 
Across the Dream group of companies, we are committed  
to establishing and implementing sustainable practices. 
It is a valued part of our culture and work for our staff to be involved in our 
sustainability efforts.  To achieve our goals, we support four employee-led 
working groups that each lead the implementation of our activities and 
champion aspects of our sustainability efforts.
01 02
03 04Operational Risk and Resilience 
We advanced our assessment of the physical climate risk in 
our portfolio, including an update of the flood risk analysis 
and catastrophic loss risk assessment which was discussed 
earlier in this section.
We have implemented policies and Board oversight to ensure we operate in a 
reputable, fair, ethical and inclusive manner. Policies include our Corporate 
Code of Conduct, Diversity & Inclusion and Advancement Commitment, 
along with regular training and lunch & learn sessions for all employees.
We have a robust Disaster Recovery Plan which is reviewed and updated 
regularly to ensure that our systems can be recovered and our employees 
can work remotely in the event of a disaster.
Cyber Security
Dream is committed to cyber security and privacy through a combination of 
regular security awareness activities and use of next-generation protection 
technologies. Our cloud strategy involves an in-depth design around 
user access rights which supports our data governance initiatives. We 
perform regular assurance activities, which include internal and third-party 
vulnerability scanning and assessments, in order to manage exposure and risk.
Our cyber security team monitors threats and attacks and has implemented 
preventative measures to ensure that all systems and employees are protected. 
We have a robust set of processes and procedures for incident management 
and resolution, supported by a cycle of continuous improvement. In addition, 
we have a mandatory cyber-awareness training program for all employees 
which ensures that they can detect and report malicious behaviour. Dream Industrial REIT
 
54Dream Industrial REIT
 
1602 Tricont Avenue 
Whitby, ONFact Box
United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment ↗
The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN 
PRI) is the world’s leading responsible investor collaboration. It 
supports its signatories to incorporate environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) factors into their investment and ownership 
decisions. Signatories commit to follow UN PRI’s six principles and 
report annually on their progress through the UN PRI Reporting 
Framework. DRM, with support from DIR.UN, became a signatory 
to the UN PRI in 2021 and will report on our responsible investment 
activities starting in 2023. 
Taskforce for Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures↗ 
In 2017, the Financial Stability Board established the Taskforce 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to provide 
guidance and recommendations on climate-related risk and 
opportunity disclosures. The TCFD recommendations are 
structured around four core reporting areas: governance, 
strategy, risk management and metrics and targets. More than 
2,300 organizations support the TCFD. DRM, with support 
from DIR.UN, became an official supporter in 2021.
Net Zero Asset Manager↗
The Net Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) initiative is an alliance of 
global asset managers committing to supporting the goal of net 
zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner, in line with the 
global efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The initiative 
has 128 signatories and $43 trillion in assets under management. 
DRM, with support from DIR.UN, joined the NZAM initiative in 2021 
and there are currently less than 10 Canadian signatories.
55Forward-looking Plans
DIR.UN will continue to focus on executing its 
ESG action plan and road-map. Our key priorities 
include:
GRESB 2022
In 2022, we will evaluate our readiness to participate 
in the GRESB Real Estate Assessment by conducting 
a comprehensive GRESB diagnostic and opportunity 
assessment.
LED Retrofit Projects
DIR.UN is committed to improving energy efficiency through 
lighting retrofit projects. In 2021, we established a target to 
upgrade one million sq. ft. of GLA to LED in the year. We are 
on track to meet and exceed our target.  We will continue to 
measure and disclose annual LED targets for our portfolio and 
optimize opportunities to work with our tenants to upgrade 
lighting.
Developments and Refurbishments  
One of DIR.UN’s top forward-looking priorities is to incorporate 
sustainability more deeply into development processes. As DIR.
UN’s development pipeline grows, the organization is entering 
the planning phase on several new developments. Numerous 
re-development projects are also planned or underway. We 
will evaluate feasibility of green building certification for every 
development with the goal to obtain sustainability credentials 
for the vast majority of the projects. Our new sustainability 
policy for developments and refurbishments will guide this work.Dream Industrial REIT
 
Data Collection and Analytics
Improving data collection will continue to be a top priority for 
DIR.UN. In the coming year, we will continue to expand our 
data coverage, as well as invest in increasing our analytical 
capabilities to facilitate the establishment of sustainability KPIs 
and emissions targets. In addition, we will expand and refine 
the scope of sustainability metrics that are gathered during 
due diligence. This will help us to identify sustainable attributes 
that create opportunities to pursue green certification post-
acquisition.
Green Property Operations
DIR.UN will continue to integrate sustainability into our 
capital program. Our commitment to sustainable capital 
investments will focus on lighting upgrades, more efficient 
roofs and sustainable landscaping practices at our building 
sites. We will also pursue more green building certifications 
in the current portfolio including BREEAM, DGNB, BOMA and 
LEED certifications. We are currently evaluating demand 
for EV charging stations and will put a program in place in 
2022. DIR.UN will continue to work with our tenants and key 
stakeholders to identify and initiate additional sustainable 
projects through our green property operations program.
Capital Investments in Clean Power
Following the installation of solar panel projects in Canada 
and the Netherlands in 2021, DIR.UN will continue to explore 
renewable energy opportunities and government incentives to 
increase our portfolio of renewable energy. 
* DIR.UN commitments include net zero by 2035 for operations including Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and net zero by 2050 for 
select Scope 3 emissions.As One of the Dream Group of Companies, DIR.UN 
is Committed to:
Communicating our Plan to Reach Net Zero by 
2035  
DIR.UN has committed to net zero GHG emissions by 2035* – 
fifteen years ahead of the Paris Agreement. Over the next year 
we will communicate a thoughtful and specific strategy on 
how we will achieve this overarching goal with a detailed plan 
and annual milestones to reducing our Scope 1, Scope 2, and 
select Scope 3 emissions.  
Beginning to Fulfill NZAM Commitments 
In 2021, DIR.UN, as part of the Dream group of companies’ 
commitment, committed to the Net Zero Asset Managers ↗ 
Initiative. DIR.UN has set net zero targets and in 2022, DIR.UN 
will be setting interim targets for 2030. 
Evaluating UN PRI Readiness 
DIR.UN, as part of the Dream group of companies’ 
commitment, committed to the UN PRI in 2021. In 2022, we 
will prepare for participating in the UN PRI Reporting and 
Assessment Framework, starting in 2023. 
Increasing Alignment with the TCFD 
Recommendations 
In 2021, DIR.UN became an official supporter of the TCFD 
recommendations. We support the development of consistent 
climate disclosures and will develop a plan for DIR.UN to 
systematically assess climate change risk, in line with TCFD 
recommendations. Policy Execution 
In 2021, DIR.UN will implement the policies that have been 
drafted governing our management of capital investments, 
biodiversity, green building certifications, waste, sustainable 
procurement, and new developments. These policies will 
be incorporated into our Tenant Sustainability Handbook, 
Guide to Sustainable Building Operations, and Sustainable 
Procurement Policy to ensure that day-to-day operational 
practices are aligned with our commitment to sustainability.
Green Financing 
Financing proceeds of the $400 million inaugural Green 
Bond and future green bonds will be allocated, in accordance 
with the Green Financing Framework, to projects which 
may include green buildings, energy efficiency, renewable 
energy, sustainable water and waste-water management.  Our 
capital strategy will continue to incorporate green financing 
opportunities when assessing future debt requirements. 
Stevinlann 4  
Ede, Netherlands
56Entity Category Topic Content
Dream Group of 
CompaniesGovernance Business ethics Board Diversity Policy DRM Board Diversity Policy ↗    MPCT.UN Board Diversity Policy ↗    D.UN Board Diversity Policy ↗    DIR Board Diversity Policy ↗
Bribery & Corruption Policy and Programs DRM Disclosure Policy ↗    MPCT.UN Disclosure Policy ↗
Code of Conduct DRM Code of  Conduct ↗    MPCT.UN Code of  Conduct ↗    D.UN Code of  Conduct ↗    DIR Code of  Conduct ↗
Disclosure Policy DRM Disclosure Policy ↗    MPCT.UN Disclosure Policy ↗    D.UN Disclosure Policy ↗    DIR Disclosure Policy ↗
Diversity, Inclusion & Advancement Commitment DRM Diversity Inclusion & Advancement Commitment ↗    MPCT.UN Diversity Inclusion & Advancement Commitment ↗     
D.UN Diversity Inclusion & Advancement Commitment ↗    DIR Diversity Inclusion & Advancement  Commitment ↗
Charters and policies link DRM Charters & Policies ↗    MPCT.UN Charters & Policies ↗    D.UN Charters & Policies ↗    DIR Charters & Policies ↗
Majority Voting Policy DRM Majority Voting Policy ↗    MPCT.UN Majority Voting Policy ↗    D.UN Majority Voting Policy ↗    DIR Majority Voting Policy ↗
Whistleblower Policy DRM Whistleblower Policy ↗    MPCT.UN Whistleblower Policy ↗    D.UN Whistleblower Policy ↗    DIR Whistleblower Policy ↗
Social Alternative transportation Dream’s corporate head office is in the heart of downtown Toronto, within a five-minute walking distance from both King and Queen subway stations. The office 
is also within a 15-minute walk to Union Station, connecting employees to commuter trains, VIA rail and the Union-Pearson Express. Transportation supports 
provided to employees include onsite bike racks, reimbursement for public transit passes (only for director-level employees and above, as well as onsite EV 
charging stations).
Employee development Information on programs supporting degree 
programs and certifications for all employeesDream supports the achievement of degree programs and certifications for all employees through providing time off and financial support. We provide up to 
$2,500 for tuition reimbursement and $500 for textbooks per calendar year, as well as reimbursement for professional designation fees. Dream is also a CPA 
Ontario Training Employer that allow students in the CPA program to satisfy all their CPA Practical Experience Requirements while working here.  
DRM Management Information Circular ↗    MPCT.UN Management Information Circular ↗    D.UN Management Information Circular ↗    DIR Management Information Circular ↗
Health and safety Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationshipsDream encourages all employees to promote health, safety and wellbeing in the workplace. We all must comply with laws, as written and for their intended 
purpose. Employees are first introduced to the Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy and Workplace Violence, Discrimination and Harassment policy during 
their orientation. During orientation, employees are also instructed on how to comply with all government and legal requirements and industry standards in all 
jurisdictions where we operate. Dream offers many other policies that are available to employees at all times and are reviewed with each employee annually. 
Consistent monitoring of our Health and Safety program ensures the internal responsibility system is in practice. Incidents and accidents are tracked and 
analyzed using multiple data inputs. Health and safety metrics are reviewed and compared to industry standards and benchmarks. Our results are then 
analyzed, and an action plan is developed to mitigate the most common incidents. Joint Health and Safety Committees/Health and Safety Representatives 
review incident reports as well as establish and promote a safe work culture by holding regular meetings at all offices where they are required. 
Policy commitment to ensure product and service 
safetyManagement’s commitment to ongoing hazard assessment is promoted through workplace inspections, incident investigation and corrective actions. All incident 
reports are reported through the Incident/Injury Report Form available on the company website. During the reporting stage, the supervisor, in coordination with 
the Health and Safety Coordinator, will assess the scene, determine the root cause and provide any corrective actions that are needed. Management has taken on 
the responsibility to review all incident reports and review all Health and Safety Committee inspections and minutes.
Local spend & taxes
2020 income taxes $91,286,000
2020 property related taxes  
(Taxes paid on leased and owned property, school 
taxes, provincial/municipal land transfer tax or 
property registration taxes paid on the purchase of 
real property)$7,437,0 0 0
2020 Development and other charges  
(Development charges/fees paid, building permits, 
levies and the cost of municipal services installed)$65,423,000
2020 People taxes  
(Various payroll taxes including government 
pension, employment insurance, government health 
costs and workers’ compensation)$2,734,000
Tenant surveys conduct tenant/resident satisfaction surveys To ensure tenant / resident satisfaction, Dream regularly conducts surveys. Questions include sustainability content, response rate and scores are tracked.2020
Supplemental ESG Disclosure 
As real estate owners, managers and developers, we understand the importance of taxes in creating value and contributing to the Canadian economy. Dream entities are subject to a range of federal, provincial and 
municipal taxes, fees, charges and levies. Below we summarize the collective amounts paid in the normal course of operations. 
2020 Dream Entities Economic Contributions through Taxes Type
57Entity Category Topic Content
Dream Industrial 
REITGovernanceWhistleblower program Number of whistleblower reports received in 2020 1
Types of misconduct reported in 2020 Non-financial related complaint against employee not adhering to company policy
Measures taken in 2020 to address misconduct 1) Discussed and reviewed company policy with employee; 2) enhanced company policy; 3) reiterated and reminded employees at impacted office of 
company policy
Metric
Units 2019 2020
Dream Impact EnvironmentEnergy consumption by source (ekWh)  
GRI 302-1Total fuel consumption
ekWh 7,789,120 5,521,262
GJ 28,041 19,877
Total electricity consumption
ekWh 14,666,311 13,729,834
GJ 52,799 49,427
Dream Office 
REITEnvironmentEnergy consumption by source (ekWh)  
GRI 302-1  
SASB IF-RE-130a.2Total fuel consumption
ekWh 61,594,051 51,134,567
GJ 221,738 184,084
Total electricity consumption
ekWh 94,702,457 78,445,128
GJ 340,929 282,402
Total steam consumption
ekWh 14,121,115 11,719,263
GJ 50,836 42,189Dream Group of Companies
 
58Forward Looking Information
Non-IFRS M easures
Dream’s consolidated financial statements are  prepared  in accordance  with  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards (“IFRS”).  In this Sustainability  Report, as a 
complement to results provided in accordance with IFRS, Dream discloses and discusses certain non-IFRS financial measures, including: assets under management, 
unencumbered assets, and available liquidity, as well as other measures discussed elsewhere in this Sustainability Report. These non-IFRS measures are not defined by 
IFRS, do not have a standardized meaning and may not be comparable with similar measures presented by other issuers. Dream has presented such non-IFRS measures 
as Management believes they are relevant measures of our underlying operating performance and debt management. Non-IFRS measures should not be considered as 
alternatives to comparable metrics determined in accordance with IFRS as indicators of Dream’s performance, liquidity, cash flow and profitability. For a full description 
of these measures and, where applicable, a reconciliation to the most directly comparable measure calculated in accordance with IFRS, please refer to the “Non-IFRS 
Measures” section in Dream Unlimited’s MD&A for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021, “Non-IFRS Measures and Other Disclosures” section in Dream 
Impact’s MD&A for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021, “Non-GAAP Measures” section in Dream Office’s MD&A for the three and nine months ended 
September 30, 2021, and “Non-GAAP Measures and Other Disclosures” section in Dream Industrial’s MD&A for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021.
Forward-Looking I nformation
Certain information in this Sustainability Report may constitute  “forward-looking  information” within  the meaning  of applicable  securities legislation.  Such  statements 
include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to certain objectives of Dream Unlimited, Dream Office, Dream Industrial and Dream Impact (collectively, “Dream” 
or the “Dream Entities”) and strategies to achieve such objectives; statements relating to the sustainability goals of each of the Dream Entities, including their target to 
achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2035 and continuing to publish their annual sustainability report and other publications in respect of sustainability matters; 
the various degrees involvement of the Dream Entities with initiatives related to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters, including the United Nations’ PRI 
Reporting and Assessment Framework, the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, the Impact Management Project, the Global Impact Investing Network, the 
Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative, and the Operating Principles for Impact Management; expectations regarding portfolio occupancy, units under development, and the 
development pipeline of the Dream Entities; and statements relating to ESG initiatives, metrics and targets for each of the Dream Entities. Such statements also include, 
(i) with respect to Dream Unlimited, benchmarking energy use at all facilities, reducing energy and water consumption, and identifying opportunities for employees in all 
Dream Entities to contribute to sustainability; its intention to conduct regular tenant surveys and track and report responses; increasing its use of green and impact leases, 
linking ESG performance to executive goals and compensation, and enhancing the impact framework of Dream Impact; achieving carbon neutrality for Arapahoe Basin 
by 2025; increasing its focus on impact investing; and implementing its social procurement program; (ii) with respect to Dream Impact, the continuous enhancement of its  
impact management system; the expansion of its green leases program into impact leases, which are expected to be implemented in 2022; the implementation of its social 
procurement strategy, with progress reports to begin in 2022; its goal of achieving certain 2025 environmental targets (including 10% total reduction of energy consumption, 
10% total reduction of emissions and 10% total reduction in water consumption); expectations regarding the implementation of the ZCU District Energy System at Zibi and its 
generation of zero carbon heating and cooling, as well as it becoming the first thermal system in North America to use post-industrial energy recovery in a master-planned 
community; expectations regarding the development, sustainability and affordability of West Don Lands; and Dream Impact’s plan to continue implementing tenant educa -
tion measures regarding energy conservation; (iii) with respect to Dream Office, its focus on tracking and measuring progress for green lease adoption; its goal of achieving 
certain 2025 environmental targets (including 10% total reduction of energy consumption, 10% total reduction of emissions and 10% total reduction in water consumption; 
achieving green building certifications for 100% of its portfolio); its intention to improve its GRESB score through certain measures; its goal of reducing energy use, water 
use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including by implementing enhanced technology, monitoring, measurement and verification of data solutions; its expectation to 
continue conducting and disclosing results of tenant satisfaction surveys, and enhance Dream Office’s Tenant Sustainability Handbook; and its intention to review outputs 
from its 2021 physical climate change analysis and develop plans to implement mitigation measures within its portfolio; (iv) with respect to Dream Industrial, its intention to 
increase the environmental efficiency of its portfolio through operating initiatives, tenant engagement, and by improving data collection and analytical capabilities; its plan 
of further incorporating sustainability into development processes, including green building certifications, and to implement sustainable upgrades and retrofits in properties, 
including lighting and roofing retrofits and EV charging stations; its intention to implement sustainability policies and its plans to further pursue sustainable financing options, 
including green bonds, and investments in clean power; its intention to conduct a diagnostic and opportunity assessment to evaluate readiness to participate in the GRESB 
Real Estate Assessment; and its goal of developing a plan to increase property resilience to flooding and water damage, including ensuring that emergency management 
and business continuity procedures are in place. Forward-looking information generally can be identified by words such as “outlook”, “objective”, “may”, “will”, “would”, “ex-
pect”, “intend”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “should”, “could”, “likely”, “seek”, “strive”, “plan”, “target”, “project”, “forecast”, “budget” or “continue” or similar expressions 
suggesting future outcomes or events. Forward-looking information is based on a number of assumptions and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of 
which are beyond the Dream Entities’ respective control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those disclosed in or implied by such forward-looking 
information. The assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect, include, but are not limited to, assumptions with respect to each of our markets, including that the general 
economy remains stable; the gradual recovery and growth of the general economy continues over the remainder of 2021 and into 2022; that no unforeseen changes in the 
legislative and operating framework for our business will occur; that we will meet our future objectives, priorities and growth targets; that we receive the licenses, permits or 
approvals necessary in connection with our projects; that we will have access to adequate capital to fund our future projects, plans and any potential acquisitions; that we 
are able to identify high quality investment opportunities and find suitable partners with which to enter into joint ventures or partnerships; that we do not incur any material 
environmental liabilities; that interest rates remain stable; there will not be a material change in foreign exchange rates; conditions within the real estate market remain 
consistent; and competition for and availability of acquisitions remains consistent with the current climate.
Although the forward-looking statements contained in this Sustainability Report are based on what the Dream Entities believe are reasonable assumptions, there can be 
no assurance that actual results will be consistent with these forward-looking statements. Factors or risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
set forth in the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, the risk of adverse global market, economic and political conditions and health 
crises; risks inherent in the real estate industry; risks relating to investment in development projects; impact investing strategy risk; risks relating to geographic concentra-
tion; risks inherent in investments in real estate, mortgages and other loans and development and investment holdings; credit risk and counterparty risk; competition risks; 
environmental and climate change risks; risks relating to access to capital; interest rate risk; the risk of changes in governmental laws and regulations; tax risks; foreign 
exchange risk; acquisitions risk; and leasing risks.
All forwar d-looking information in this Sustainability Report speaks as of December, 2021. The Dream Entities do not undertake to update any obligation to update any 
such forward-looking information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Additional information about 
these assumptions and risks and uncertainties is contained in the Dream group of companies’ filings with securities regulators, including their latest annual information 
forms and MD&As. These filings are also available at Dream Unlimited’s, Dream Office’s, Dream Industrial’s and Dream Impact Trust’s websites at www.dream.ca, www. 
dreamofficereit.ca, www.dreamindustrialreit.ca, and www.dreamimpacttrust.ca 
61