104 105
266
properties
95.1%
in-place and committed occupancy26.6 Million
square feet of Gross Leasable Area (GLA)
$3.1 billion
total assetsDream Group of Companies
Dream Industrial REIT (DIR.UN)
Dream Industrial REIT:  (TSX: DIR.UN), owns and operates a global portfolio of 
well-located, diversified industrial properties across North America and Europe. 
We have access to highly experienced, local investments and asset management 
platforms that have a proven track record of creating long-term value. Our 
strategy is to invest in high-quality assets and markets that provide stable cash 
flow and net asset value growth over the long-term to our unitholders. 
All figures as at September 30, 2020.
1602 Tricont Ave.
Whitby, ON106 107
Dream Industrial REIT
Key Accomplishments
Governance***Installed solar panels covering 81 7 ,000  sq. ft. 
(equivalent to 19 acres, or 14 football fields)  
and totalling 2,507,603* kilowatt-hours of 
renewable energy
11.3 million sq. ft. of interior lighting retrofits 
and 8.6 million  sq. ft. of exterior lighting in 
our buildings has been retrofitted with LED or T5 
lighting, to replace inefficient fluorescent lighting
6.8 million  sq. ft. of our portfolio is equipped with 
white roofs, which absorb less heat and reduce 
cooling costs and energy consumption
Integrated green cost recovery clauses in 100%  of 
new leases, which include energy efficiency-related 
capital improvementsCollected two carloads of snacks, school supplies, 
household products and gift cards for Ronald 
McDonald House Charities 
Volunteered at Moisson Laval food bank to support 
the local community
Prepared and served meals at Inn from the Cold 
in Calgary and Dixon House in Toronto. These 
charities provide support to individuals and 
families that are experiencing homelessness 
Participated in the Habitat for Humanity Women 
Build, which brings volunteers together to build 
stronger, safer communities 
Employees repelled down the edge of a high rise 
building to raise funds for the Make-A-Wish Rope 
for Hope charity event
Organized a food drive for the Veterans Food Bank 
of Calgary and supported the Calgary Drop in 
Centre 
63%  of employees and 52%  of managers are 
women** 
~$30,000  paid out for employee tuition and 
professional fees
75%  of Trustees  
are independent75+2525%  of Trustees  
are women25+75DIR.UN Highlights
Environmental Social
7730 American Way
Orlando, FloridaRenewable electricity generated by rooftop photovoltaic panels is provided by our solar operators at each site and is generally measured by a dedicated submeter or 
inverter which either feeds renewable power into the grid or, using a net metering approach, is used on-site.
Dream Industrial Management Corp. employees.
As at November 13, 2020.*
**
***108 109
Dream Industrial REIT
Our ESG Approach
6701 Financial Drive
Mississauga, ONOur sustainability strategy enables us 
to establish meaningful and realistic 
benchmarks, measure our progress and 
integrate our environmental and social 
obligations into the ways we manage our 
business and create value. 
DIR.UN aspires to be a market leader in sustainability. 
We have a responsibility to manage and mitigate our 
overall impact on the environment and we believe that an 
increasing focus on sustainability is imperative to creating 
long-term value for our stakeholders. 
Our approach to sustainability includes increasing energy 
efficiency throughout our portfolio, engaging tenants, 
lowering operational costs and incorporating energy 
management initiatives into our capital expenditures 
planning. 
Sustainability at DIR.UN is governed by policies covering 
all activities across the value chain including our Guide 
to Sustainable Building Operations, our Environmentally 
Preferable Purchasing Policy for operations, and 
our Tenant Sustainability Handbook and Occupant 
Environmental Communication program for customer 
relations.
For a full list of policies, please contact:  
industrialinfo@dream.ca  ↗.DIR.UN has installed  
enough solar panels 
to generate 2,507,603 
kilowatt-hours of renewable 
energy capacity.
45A & 45B West Wilmot St.
Richmond Hill, Ontario110 111
Dream Industrial REIT
Environmental
Climate Change 
Frequent and more extreme weather events can lead to higher insurance costs and interruptions to business continuity, potentially 
impacting lender appetite and asset valuation over time. DIR.UN is in the process of mapping all of our properties against a comprehensive 
database of climate-related and other high-impact extreme weather events. 
As part of our flood risk and catastrophic loss risk assessment conducted in 2019, we identified which properties in our portfolio are at 
risk of losses from 50, 100, 200 and 500-year flood risks. 
Water Management 
DIR.UN is committed to reducing water consumption in our properties through environmentally responsible decisions and a preventative 
maintenance program. Our Water Conservation Policy sets forth objectives that support this goal, including monitoring major water 
consuming equipment through building management systems, leak reporting through our tenant service program, routine inspections 
by staff, installing low flow water fixtures during washroom renovations and monitoring landscape irrigation using rain sensors and 
control timers. Our Calgary operations also utilize climate-controlled irrigation technology to optimize water usage.  
Case Study
Climate Controlled 
Water Management
We use climate-controlled irrigation at 42 of our sites 
in Calgary. The system uses real-time weather data 
from specialized water management weather stations to 
automatically adjust watering based on the best horticultural 
practice of deeper, less frequent root watering. In 2019 we 
saved 15,667,000 litres  of water, equivalent to the amount 
consumed annually by 68 households on average.
Sunridge Park
Calgary, AlbertaSustainable Developments
In 2019, we began integrating sustainable practices into our 
redevelopment and new development projects. This included 
reviewing our materials sourcing practices and seeking to 
reduce the GHG emissions throughout our value chain by 
buying locally.
Number of At-Risk Assets from Flooding*
50-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)100-year
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)200-year 
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)500-year  
floodFloor area 
(sq. ft.)
DIR.UN - - 2 38,295 4 241,399 6432,059
*    Floor area square footage is based on Gross Leasable Area (GLA).
*    Assets that may be classified under more than one category by default are not duplicated in the figures in the other time categories.
Energy Efficiency
Sustainability initiatives that reduce resource intensity or 
increase building efficiency reduce costs for tenants and make 
our buildings more leasable. We focus on improving energy 
efficiency through lighting retrofit projects, on-site renewable 
power that offsets grid consumption and replacing traditional 
roofing with white, reflective roofs. Over the past several years, 
we have undertaken lighting retrofits that include replacing old, 
inefficient fluorescent lights with either T5 lighting or LED lights. 
As lighting is typically upgraded on tenant move-out we attempt 
to balance this initiative with our expected lease rollover.  As part of the asset management and investment processes, we 
also incorporate sustainability into our investment strategy as 
well as into our capital plans. Our detailed 10-year capital plans 
incorporate new energy management initiatives as properties 
are acquired.  
Lastly, we promote tenant energy efficiency by providing 
recommendations based on energy audits to help reduce 
consumption and costs. Typical energy audit recommendations 
include placing timers on chargers or forklifts, installing ‘smart’ 
thermostats and upgrading lighting to LED. Supplier Engagement 
Our major suppliers are landscapers, snow removal, HVAC 
services, roofers and small general contractors. We work with 
our suppliers to ensure we are using the most sustainable 
products and engaging in sustainable practices, for example 
by using low chemical ice melting products, ensuring our 
general contractors separate waste streams and replacing 
HVAC equipment with the latest eco- friendly refrigerants.  
300 Orenda Road
Brampton, Ontario112 113
Dream Industrial REIT
Environmental
Case Study
LEED Silver Asset 
in Montreal 
DIR.UN continues to seek properties with sustainable 
attributes as a key component of our investment criteria. 
We own a LEED Silver Certified building located in Saint-
Laurent, Quebec. The sustainable features of the building 
include a state-of-the-art geothermal heating and cooling 
system, energy efficient lighting with occupancy sensors and 
sealed windows in the warehouse that reduce the need for 
artificial light and enhance the employee experience.
Our tenant distributes premium cycling brands. The 
sustainable aspects of the building resonate with their key 
corporate objectives, to promote a green and healthy lifestyle  
for their employees and clients.
10555 Henri-Bourassa Ouest
St-Laurent , Québec
Case Study
BOMA Gold 
Certification
We coordinated with our tenant to achieve and maintain 
BOMA GOLD certification on a 350,000 sq. ft. fully 
integrated manufacturing facility in Western Canada. 
Sustainable aspects of this well-constructed building include 
high efficiency roof top units, a direct fired heating and 
ventilating system, energy efficient windows and lighting 
and tenant programs that incorporate waste reduction and 
diversion, environmental purchasing and water conservation.
Achieving BOMA GOLD Certification was an important 
benchmark for our tenant, a manufacturer of high-quality 
windows and doors.  The operations of the facility align 
with their corporate commitment to meet and exceed energy 
efficiency requirements in their products, and pass along 
energy savings to their customers. 
7140 40th Street SE
Calgary, Alberta
Case Study
Renewable Energy 
in the Netherlands
In 2020 we secured a subsidy from the Dutch Government 
to incentivize the production of renewable energy. We are 
actively investigating the installation of 40,000 solar panels 
on 19 buildings (1,561,951 sq. ft.) located in the Netherlands, 
which are estimated to generate up to 12 million kilowatt-
hours of sustainable energy per year. Through the subsidy 
the government will guarantee a set price per kilowatt-hour 
for a period of 15 years.
12-16 Het Sterrenbeeld
Den Bosch, Netherlands
Case Study
Lighting Upgrades 
In our North American portfolio, we have upgraded 48% 
of the interior lighting with T5 or LED lighting, and 37% 
of the exterior lighting on our buildings. Upgraded lighting 
is brighter, more efficient and generates energy savings for 
our tenants.114 115
Dream Industrial REIT
Environmental
Working Together 
on Renewable 
Installation
When evaluating renewable energy or other capital upgrade 
investment decisions, we engage with tenants to get their 
feedback and discuss the possibilities of capital contributions 
or cost-sharing agreements, such as extended leases. We are 
proud to work together to meet joint sustainability goals 
and eager to assist tenants when specific capital upgrade 
requests are made.
2–20 Exportweg
Waddinxveen, Netherlands
Case Study
Glenmore 
Centre Beehive
In the fall of 2020, DIR.UN introduced a beehive installation 
at Glenmore Park in Calgary. We have partnered with a 
beekeeper who maintains the hive and harvests its honey. 
The beehive is a small way we contribute to supporting 
biodiversity at the site, while offering a unique tenant 
engagement opportunity, as we are able to offer “Meet the 
Bees” workshops and share bottles of harvested honey with 
our tenants.
Case Study
Sustainable Roofs
When our roofs approach the end of their useful life we 
evaluate opportunities to implement a more sustainable 
roofing system. In 2019 we replaced a 20 year old roof 
on a 472,000 sq.ft. building with a TPO (Thermoplastic 
Polyolefin) white membrane roof system. TPO is very energy 
efficient as it reduces cooling costs due to UV resistance.
860 Marine Drive
Charlotte, NC116 117
New Hires and Turnover Rates*Dream Industrial REIT
Social
Our People
DIR.UN’s success as an organization comes from our strong 
and diverse workforce. Our employees possess expertise in 
a wide variety of areas that benefit our business, from real 
estate management and development to capital markets, 
risk, insurance and many more. 
Our people come from a wide range of backgrounds and 
places, bringing many valuable skills and perspectives to 
our team. The people we hire all have one thing in common: 
they share our company values and contribute to our 
company culture. Consistent with our values, 
we are very proud to have 
a strong female presence in 
our workforce. 63%  of our 
employees and 52%  of our 
managers are women. 
Dream Industrial employees in the community.
Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Industrial REIT activities and excludes employees on unpaid leave of absences (e.g. permanent disability, long-term disability, 
parental leave) and interns. Turnover rate is calculated as a percentage of average employee headcount for 2019. 
Employee of Dream Advisors Netherlands.Includes only employees 100% dedicated to Dream Industrial REIT activities and excludes employees on unpaid leave of absences (e.g. permanent disability, long-
term disability, parental leave) and interns.
Numbers represented as total headcount, not full time equivalent.
Includes permanent part-time employees.
Includes all employees with a work schedule of 35 hours or greater per week. Employees(1) (2)Total Male Female Central Canada Western Canada
Permanent(3)69 27 42 46 23
Contract 6 1 5 6 -
Full-time(4)75 28 47 52 23
Part-time - - - - -DIR.UN - Employee Summary
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)Gender Breakdown
48+52 66+3437% Male37+6363% FemaleEmployees* Managers
48% Male52% FemaleExecutive Team**
66% Male34% Female75 total employees
Includes employees at all levels.
DIR.UN’s executive team is accounted for under Dream Asset Management Corporation, however the CFO of DIR.UN is female, while the CEO and COO are male.
*
**Total Male FemaleAge
under 30 Age 
30-50Age 
50+Central 
CanadaWestern 
CanadaUnited 
States Europe
New hires 10 3 7 3 5 2 7 2 - 1**
Voluntary 
turnover rate3.7% 1.2% 2.5% 0% 3.7% 0% 1.2% 2.5% - -
*
**
118 119
Tenant Service 
Our management team and staff are committed to providing customer service 
excellence and continually improving the quality of our services through efficient 
property management, value-added services for our tenants and capital improvements 
to our assets. Our top priority is providing a physical environment that contributes to 
the well-being of our tenants and the success of their businesses. An important part 
of our success is our vertically integrated property management operations which 
includes tenant services and property operations, lease administration, accounting 
and reporting and in-house construction management.Dream Industrial REIT
Social
Our top priority is providing  
a physical environment that 
contributes to the well-being  
of our tenants and the success 
of their businesses.
650 Rue Bergeron
Drummondville, QC4470 Southpoint Drive
Memphis, TNWe also provide tenants with a web-enabled 
response system, dreamplus, that puts them in 
control of their needs with the ability to submit 
and monitor service requests on-line.120 121
Dream Industrial REIT
Governance
Governance, Compensation & Environmental Committee Oversight of sustainability at DIR.UN
Chief Operating Officer Oversight of DIR.UN sustainability working groups 
Sustainability working groupsAdvance sustainability initiatives and gather sustainability performance 
data Sustainability at DIR.UN is managed by the following: 
J. Michael Knowlton
Member
Ben Mulroney
Chair
Vicky Schiff
MemberGovernance, Compensation & Environmental Committee
Environmental, Social Governance (ESG) Working Group 
We have established an ESG working group that is comprised of regional portfolio managers, operations leads, asset management and 
our sustainability team. The working group is tasked with advancing sustainability initiatives and gathering sustainability performance 
data. The working group is a collaborative initiative that enables regional teams to share and exchange cross-continental insights, best 
practices and innovations. Specialized breakout teams can be assembled to explore specific projects and capitalize on the deep level 
of expertise available from the group members. The working group reports to the Chief Operating Officer on a monthly basis. 75% of DIR.UN Trustees are independent  
and 25% are women.Dream Industrial REIT
Social
Case Study
Partnering with Tenants  
and Employees for 
Ronald McDonald 
House Charities 
Ronald McDonald House Charities plays a vital role in 
helping keep families together while their sick child is treated 
at a nearby hospital. DIR.UN’s charity team collected two 
carloads of snacks, school supplies and household products, 
as well as gift cards totalling over $500 from employees, 
contractors, tenants and family members for donations.122 123
In 2020, we have developed  a new sustainability framework for DIR.UN 
which includes a formalized strategy and set of objectives. The framework 
provides overarching guidance as we define our processes  for improved data 
collection, establish measurable and achievable targets and articulate our 
environmental policy and strategy.
Our priorities for data collection include:
 — Energy and water usage
 — Waste diversion
 — Climate risk management
 — Materials sourcing performance
 — Quantifying our investments in energy saving measures, such as LED 
retrofits and solar panel installations
We will also be developing policies on:
 — Capital investments
 — Biodiversity
 — Green building certifications
 — Investment criteria
 — Waste management 
 — Sustainable sourcing
 — New development and refurbishment
We also plan to explore sustainable financing options
We are pursuing investments in clean power
Looking forward, DIR.UN is dedicated to following through on our commitment 
to sustainable responsibility.  Our focus on data collection will empower us to 
evaluate our performance and establish impactful targets.  We will explore 
and pursue sustainable, cost-effective opportunities including clean power 
and green sources of financing.  The drafting of our policies will be built on 
recognition that sustainability is fundamental to how we do business and is 
a key driver of value for our stakeholders.Dream Industrial REIT
Forward-looking Plans
Case Study
European Energy 
Performance 
Certificates
The Dutch government rates building energy performance 
with a labelling system that is governed by the European 
Union, to promote energy efficiency and encourage the 
use of renewable resources. In the Netherlands, office 
buildings will be required to achieve a rating of “C” or 
higher by 2023. Currently 86% of the office premises 
within our industrial portfolio in the Netherlands has a 
rating of “C” or higher. Although there is currently no 
rating requirement for industrial premises, we will work 
to improve the energy performance of our buildings to 
align with tenant needs as they renew, or to improve the 
efficiency of space that is available for lease.
2-20 Exportweg
Waddinxveen, Netherlands