2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 1
Serving with Energy
Local Action, Global Impact 
In accordance with Global Reporting Initiative standards2019 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2At DTE Energy, we serve, lead and transform with our energy. It’s not just a corporate saying on our walls –  
it’s how we show up to work each and every day. Achieving great results for our customers, communities and 
investors inspires all of us. It is how we will reach our aspiration to be the best-operated energy company in 
North America and a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve. 
This is an exciting and challenging time in the energy industry. We are in the midst of an energy 
transformation that is driven by the desire for safe, clean, affordable and reliable power to help mitigate the 
effects of climate change. We are investing in new, modern infrastructure across our electric and gas service 
territories that meets the needs of the 21st century economy and provides us the means of delivering cleaner 
energy to Michigan homes and businesses. We’re integrating smart technologies to achieve greater reliability, 
safety and energy efficiency. 
In 2019, DTE announced its goal to achieve net zero carbon emissions for our electric company by 2050 –  
a significant acceleration of our previous commitment to reduce carbon emissions 80% by 2040. That goal, 
paired with keeping energy affordable, our progressive approach on workforce development, our world-class 
volunteerism, and our focus on employee engagement, diversity and inclusion, are just some of the ways we 
are serving our customers and communities - and each other.
Jerry Norcia
President and Chief Executive Officer
DTE Energy 
CEO Message2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 3
GRI 100 : Universal Standards
101: Foundation 4
102: General Disclosures 4
103: Management Approach 17
GRI 200: Economic
201:  Eco nomic Performance 18
202: Market Presence 18 
203: Indirect Economic Impacts 19
204: Procurement Practices 20 
205: Anti-Corruption 20 
206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 20 
GRI 300 : Environmental  
301:  Mater ials 21
302: Energy 21
303: Water 22
304: Biodiversity 22
305: Emissions 23
306: Effluents and Waste 24
307: Environmental Compliance 27
308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 27
GRI 400: Social
401:  Empl oyment 28
402: Labor / Management Relations 30 
403: Occupational Health and Safety 30
404: Training and Education 33405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 34
406: Non-Discrimination 35
407: Freedom of Association and  
        Collective Bargaining 35
408: Child Labor 35 
409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 35 
410: Security Practices 35
411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 36
412: Human Rights Assessment 36
413: Local Communities 36
414: Supplier Social Assessment 36
415: Public Policy 37
416: Customer Health Safety 37
417: Marketing and Labeling 38
418: Customer Privacy 38
419: Socioeconomic Compliance 38
Sector Specific Reporting:  39 
       Electric Utilities Sector Supplement  39
Supplemental Materials 40
GRI 102-13:  Indu stry Association and   
 National Advocacy Organizations      40
GRI 102-40, 102-43, 103-44:   
                   Stakeholder Engagement Table  41
GRI 304-3: Wildlife Habitat Council Sites 45
GRI 404: DTE Energy’s Youth and Adult Talent  
                Pipeline Programs 48Table of Contents2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 4
GRI 100  Universal Standards 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard
 GRI 101 Foundation 
   This document is designed to provide information in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Standards  
(GRI Standards), core option.
   See also DTE Energy’s 10-K filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance, 
and Sustainability Report , which is based on the Edison Electric Institute industry sector template.
  Visit DTEImpact.com  to learn more about DTE Energy as a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve.
 GRI 102 General Disclosures 
 GRI 102-1 Name of the organization DTE Energy Company
 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products,   DTE Energy Company is a publicly traded (NYSE: DTE) diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-
 and services  related businesses and services nationwide. Our largest operating subsidiaries are DTE Electric and DTE Gas. More than three million 
residential, business and industrial customers throughout Michigan are customers of DTE Electric, DTE Gas, or both of these regulated  
utility companies. 
  Additional information can be found in DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018 (page 7  and page 8)
 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Detroit, Michigan, United States
 GRI 102-4 Location of operations United States and Ontario, Canada
 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form DTE Energy is a holding company. 
   DTE Electric and DTE Gas are regulated by the Michigan Public Service Commission. Certain activities of DTE Electric and DTE Gas, as well  
as various other aspects of businesses under DTE Energy, are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. DTE Electric and  
DTE Gas are regulated by other federal and state agencies including the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Environmental Protection 
Agency, the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy, and for DTE Energy, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission. A section of the Vector Natural Gas Pipeline, a DTE joint venture, is located in Ontario, Canada, and is regulated by provincial  
and Canadian federal authorities.2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 5
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard
 GRI 102-6 Markets served (cont.)  Additional information can be found in DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018 (pages 7, 8, 14)
   DTE Electric serves 2.2 million residential, business, commercial, and industrial customers in a service territory encompassing 7,429 square 
miles in southeastern Michigan. DTE Gas serves 1.3 million residential, business, commercial, and industrial customers in a distribution 
territory of 20,315.2 square miles in Michigan.
   DTE Gas Pipelines, DTE’s natural gas pipeline transmission network, connects markets in the Midwest, Northeast and eastern Canada. 
These pipelines connect producing regions to market areas to meet rising demand for clean, reliable natural gas. These pipelines also access 
underground storage fields in Michigan and Ontario, Canada to provide critical supply particularly during the coldest winter months. 
   In addition to utility operations in Michigan, the DTE Energy portfolio includes non-utility energy businesses focused on power and industrial 
projects, natural gas pipelines, gathering and storage, and energy marketing and trading in 22 states.
   In addition to work in the United States, a section of DTE Energy’s Vector Pipeline is located in Ontario. The pipeline transports natural gas 
from Illinois to Indiana, Michigan and into Ontario, Canada, linking storage fields in Michigan and Ontario to markets across the Midwest, 
eastern Canada and the Northeast.
 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Employees
  In 2018, DTE Energy and its subsidiaries had more than 10,600 employees of which 49% were represented by unions. 
  Operations2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 6
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization (cont.)   DTE Energy Service Territories             DTE Gas Pipelines                                                                                 
 
  Net Revenue and Total Capitalization  
   The following Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ending December 31, 2018. Numbers are in millions except for per-share 
amounts. For additional financial detail, please see DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018 . 
  Total Capitalization (debt & equity breakdown): 
  For additional financial detail, please see DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018 . 
 GRI 102-8 Information on employees  DTE Energy’s workforce in 2018 totaled approximately 10,600 full time employees, with unions representing 49% of this workforce. All DTE  
 and other workers Energy employees work in the United States, primarily in Michigan.
 
 
 
 
 
  Additional information can be found in DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018
 GRI 102-9 Supply chain  DTE Energy views its suppliers as strategic partners in the company’s success. DTE Energy expects those with whom the company does 
business to share the same values and principles that enable DTE Energy to enjoy an excellent reputation within the communities it serves. 
DTE Energy’s supply chain includes products and services to support operations; fuel supply and purchased power; natural gas supply; and 
nuclear fuel supply.
Permanent and Temporary Female Male
Regular 2,780 7,787
Temporary 135 225
Full time and Part time employees by Gender Female Male
Full Time Regular 2,764 7,785
Part Time Regular 16 22019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 7
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 102-9 Supply chain (cont.)  Products and Services
   In 2018, 4,363 suppliers were in DTE Energy’s company-wide supply chain. The following includes the supplier count associated with DTE 
Energy’s lines of business. Some DTE Energy suppliers contract with multiple lines of DTE Energy businesses.
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   DTE’s 4,363 suppliers in 2018 were located in every state except Alaska, Hawaii, and South Dakota. The monetary value of payments made to 
suppliers by DTE Energy in 2018 is more than $2.9 billion. DTE Energy managed supplier relationships and expectations through more than 
123 supplier performance scorecards and periodic executive reviews to measure performance and develop corrective actions. In addition, 
DTE Energy conducted 172 executive forums and reviews with top suppliers and senior leadership. Focusing on safety priorities, DTE Gas 
scheduled monthly contractor partnership meetings to discuss safety and quality audit results.
   DTE Energy is a nationwide leader in supplier diversity, emphasizing the importance of contracting with women, veteran and minority-owned 
firms, which has diversified the company’s supplier base. Last year, DTE Energy spent $472.4 million with diverse vendors and captured  
11 industry-wide awards for its commitment to supplier diversity. We encourage our suppliers to have the same commitment in their use of 
materials and services from their own base of diverse suppliers and contractors.
  Line of Business Supplies
Corporate Services  781
Distribution Operations  650
Energy Gas  839
Energy Waste & Reduction  172
Fossil Generation  1,188
Gas Storage and Pipelines  226
Major Enterprise Projects  614
Nuclear Generation  654
Power and Industrial  1,6302019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 8
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to StandardGRI 102-9 Supply chain (cont.)  In 2018, DTE Energy contracted with suppliers providing products and services in 30 standard categories:
 
 
  Fuel Supply and Natural Gas Supply
  For additional information, please see the 10-K for the year ending 12-31-18, Fuel Supply and Purchased Power  and Natural Gas Supply
  GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the  There were no significant changes to DTE Energy’s organizational structure in 2018. There were no significant changes related to DTE  
 organization and its  Energy’s supply chain. There were no major DTE Energy plant openings, closings or expansions. In 2018, DTE Energy began construction on  
 supply chain the Blue Water Energy Center , which is scheduled to be completed in 2022.
  GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle See the DTE Energy Company 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2018, Item 1A., Risk Factors, (pages 20-26)  
 or approach
   For additional information on risks associated with DTE Energy’s sustainability and climate change plans, see DTE Energy’s 2019 
Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 1.   
 GRI 102-12 External initiatives  DTE Energy follows or subscribes to numerous voluntary environmental, social and governance charters, guidelines and standards including:
   •  ISO 14001 Environmental Management System
   •  CEO Climate Dialogue
   •  Environmental Protection Agency Natural Gas Star and Methane Challenge Programs  
   •  Edison Electric Institute and American Gas Association ESG Template
   •  Wildlife Habitat Council Certification
   •  Environmental Protection Agency WasteWiseBulk Gas & Chemicals Construction Electrical
Engineering Environmental Equipment
Facilities Fleet Materials Fleet Services
Heating-Ventilation-Air Conditioning Home Protection Program Information Technology
Instrumentation Maintenance Maintenance Materials
Metering Services Meters Miscellaneous-Other
Maintenance, Repair, Operations Oil Filled Equipment Personnel
Petroleum Pipes, Valves, Fittings Power Generation Production Materials
Professional Services Pumps, Motors and Generators Safety
Transportation Services Vehicles and Equipment Wire and Cable2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 9
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 102-12 External initiatives (cont.)   •  Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy - Clean Corporate Citizen Michigan
   •  Business Pollution Prevention Partnership (MBP3)
   •  Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance
   •  Michigan Economic Development Corporation Pure Michigan Business Connect  
 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations  DTE Energy has representation on various associations, councils and organizations involving and representing stakeholders of industry and 
professional importance. The list of organizations to which DTE Energy belongs represents affiliations with leading utility-relevant industry 
and professional groups. DTE Energy representatives are board members on some of these organizations and those relationships are used to 
communicate DTE Energy operational plans, benchmark best practices for organizational management, as well as understand and influence 
legislative and policy agendas.
  See Industry Associations and National Advocacy Organizations table
 GRI 102-14 Statement from senior  Letter from Gerry Anderson, Board Chair  
 decision maker Letter from Jerry Norcia, CEO  
  Video from Gerry Anderson 
 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and  See DTE Energy’s 10-K for year ending 12-31-18. For risk-specific information, see: Item 1A., Risk Factors, (pages 20-25)  
 opportunities  
  Also see DTE Energy’s 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report Volume 1.
  A description of DTE Energy’s material sustainability issues is included in this GRI Report, under Standard 102-47 .
 GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards,  Aspiration  
 and norms of behavior  DTE Energy is striving to become the best-operated energy company in North America and a force for growth and prosperity in the 
communities where its employees live and serve. Building upon a 150-year history, DTE Energy is progressing toward this aspiration by 
continually emphasizing collaboration among employees, urging all to stay connected to the company’s purpose by focusing on DTE Energy’s 
seven company priorities, and by expecting every employee to integrate company values in their daily work.
   Purpose
    “We serve with our energy, the lifeblood of communities and the engine of progress.” This sense of purpose – remembering why DTE Energy 
exists – gives work at DTE Energy a unique meaning for every employee. It is a source of inspiration and strength.2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 10
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Values  
 and norms of behavior (cont.)   Intended to guide how DTE Energy employees think about the company, the way they work, and how they interact with one another, these 
“rules of the road” are meant to guide all decisions and actions; to be intentionally embraced and acted upon with conviction.
   •  We put the health and safety of people first… and know this responsibility rests with each of us.
   •  We act with integrity and show respect… and understand this defines our company’s character.
   •  We see our work through the eyes of those we serve… and know that our work is a powerful means to serve others.
   •  We bring our best energy and focus to our work… and are fully engaged and accountable for results.
   •  We believe that improvement is our daily responsibility… and know those we serve have the right to expect that from us.
   •  We play to win as a team... and put the needs of our enterprise first.
   •  We are passionate about the success of our company… and know that its health and growth generate prosperity.
  Priorities
   Used to drive toward achieving DTE Energy’s aspiration, these seven connected company priorities interact and influence one another as 
a reinforcing system. This illustration summarizes DTE Energy’s corporate priorities as strategic drivers and how they connect to propel 
the company toward a strong, sustainable future. Success depends in large part upon growth and prosperity among the customers and 
communities served by DTE Energy. 
  Code of Conduct 
   The DTE Energy Way, the code of conduct on which all employees are trained beginning the first day on the job, is the highest level of policy 
for all employees. It guides how employees behave on the job to ensure their activities are consistent with DTE Energy values. The DTE 
Energy Way is detailed in an extensive section on the DTE Energy internal website, Quest, which covers dozens of issues from defining DTE 
Energy values, asking questions, seeking help and reporting concerns of harassment, conflicts of interest, and insider trading. DTE Energy 
also has a supplier code of conduct to ensure its business partners adhere to the same standards.
 GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and  DTE Energy promotes an ethical culture among employees properly grounded on company values. This emphasis on ethics and values starts  
 concerns about ethics  with DTE Energy’s board of directors and extends throughout the company. The DTE Energy Code of Ethics  is published on DTE Energy’s 
public website, along with the Board of Directors Mission and Guidelines , Board Codes and Policies , and Categorical Standards for Director 
Independence .
   DTE Energy’s Ethics and Compliance Office promotes a culture of integrity, respect, and compliance with laws and regulations. To encourage 
supporting behaviors, ethics ambassadors are embedded within business groups companywide. These ambassadors are an in-department 
resource for employees seeking guidance as well as related training and communication. 
   A list of ethics ambassadors by name, title, and with email addresses is published on the DTE Energy’s internal website, Quest. Beyond these 
peer experts assigned in every DTE Energy business unit, DTE Energy employees can learn about and seek information on ethical concerns 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 11
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and through extensive web-based resources on Quest. The resources include a downloadable DTE Energy Ethics in Action pamphlet, which details  
 concerns about ethics (cont.)  ways to learn about ethical concerns at DTE Energy, pinpoints examples of questionable behavior, and provides reporting options. Provided 
to all new DTE Energy employees on intake as well as at business unit training sessions, this information and additional content populate an 
Ethics and Compliance section on Quest.
   DTE Energy’s Ethics in Action Program, administered by the Ethics and Compliance Office, promotes a “speak-up” culture by providing 
mechanisms for employees, retirees, vendors, customers, shareholders, and the public to report suspected non-compliance or work practices 
inconsistent with DTE Energy standards and values. This independent system for questionable, unethical, and illegal behavior has five 
reporting pathways including though Quest, DTE Energy’s public website, via phone (24/7), by mail and directly informing the business unit 
leader, Human Resources, or the DTE Energy Ethics and Compliance Office. An independent third party operates DTE Energy’s Ethics in Action 
Helpline through which individuals can make confidential and, if desired, anonymous reports. This third-party vendor, NAVEX Global, operates 
EthicsPoint® web and telephone reporting channels. These hotlines are open to the public. Anyone can report any issue of concern ranging 
from violation of policy and inappropriate use of DTE Energy equipment to concerns about purchasing practices and harassment. Every 
contact is acted upon and investigated.
   In additional to Ethics and Compliance programs, DTE Energy and its Unions jointly manage a grievance procedure which is defined by 
the collective bargaining agreements for represented employees. Additionally, DTE Energy manages a dispute resolution process for non-
represented employees.
 GRI 102-18 Governance structure  The DTE Energy governance structure consists of a board of directors and committees of the board of directors. The DTE Energy Bylaws  
describe how the company will operate with regard to shareholders, the board of directors and board committees, officers, stock, and  
other matters.
   As of December 31, 2018, the DTE Energy board consisted of 11 independent directors elected annually by shareholders, plus DTE Energy’s 
chairman and CEO, the sole non-independent management director. The DTE Energy board meets regularly to lead the company in fulfilling its 
mission and achieving its goals. With respect to economic, environmental, and social issues, the DTE Energy board:
    •   Is responsible for creating long-term value for shareholders while ensuring that the company operates in an environmentally sensitive 
and socially responsible manner 
    •   Oversees company management and assesses the effectiveness of management policies and decisions, including management’s 
development and execution of the company’s strategies
    •   Approves all major environmental initiatives
   Subsequent to December 31, 2018, Jerry Norcia was named President & CEO and elected to the Board of Directors as a non-independent 
management director.  Gerry Anderson was named Executive Chairman and remains a non-executive management director.  As of June 23, 
2019, the DTE Energy board consists of 11 independent directors and 2 non-independent management directors.
   Information on DTE Energy’s board members, committees, bylaws and other governance resources is on the Governance  page of DTE Energy’s 
public website and in the 2019 Proxy Statement under "Committees of the Board of Directors” (p.16) .  2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 12
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard
 GRI 102-18 Governance structure (cont.)   While ultimately determined by the full board, decision-making recommendations on economic, environmental, and social topics rest with 
DTE Energy’s Public Policy & Responsibility Committee (PPRC), the purpose of which is to review DTE Energy’s performance as a responsible 
corporate citizen and suggest policies to the board of directors to enable the Company to respond appropriately to its social responsibilities 
and its shareholders’ interests. Consisting of four independent directors from the board, the PPRC reviews and advises the board on emerging 
social, economic, political, reputational, and environmental issues that could significantly affect the Company’s business and performance in 
relation to the community, shareholders, customers and employees. In this role, the PPRC:
   •  Advises the board of directors on emerging Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) issues, including climate change
   •  Receives and reviews reports from management relating to ESG risks and opportunities 
   •  Meets regularly, including in executive sessions, without management present 
   •  Retains independent outside professional advisers, as needed
   The board of directors reviews and approves recommendations from the Public Policy & Responsibility Committee. DTE Energy’s Chairman 
and CEO, together with other senior leaders of the company, exercise leadership in the company’s sustainability initiatives. Through the 
Government, Regulatory and Community Committee, Force for Growth Committee, and other management leadership committees, DTE 
Energy’s senior management:
   •  Executes the company’s ESG strategy in consultation with the board of directors
   •  Manages environmental compliance processes and carbon reduction aspirations
   •   Mobilizes employees, resources and partner organizations to strengthen and promote prosperity in communities served by DTE Energy
   •  Reports to the DTE Energy board on outcomes of ESG initiatives
   •  Manages risks associated with environmental and sustainability opportunities
  Also see DTE Energy’s 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report , Volume 1 .
 GRI 102-19 Delegating Authority See DTE Energy’s 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report , Volume 1 .
 GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility  See DTE Energy’s 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report , Volume 1.  
 for economic, environmental,  
 and social topics
 GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on  Not required for core reporting  
 economic, environmental, and  
 social topics2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 13
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard
 GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest  As the highest governance body of DTE Energy, as of December 2018, the DTE Energy board of directors consisted of 12 directors, 11 of which  
 governance body  are independent, and DTE Energy’s chairman and CEO, who is the sole non-independent management director and the only non-independent 
company executive serving on the board. DTE Energy’s board members as of December 31, 2018 included nine men and three women of 
whom nine were Caucasian and three African Americans.
       Ethnicity           Gender
 
  Board Diversity
   With the election of Jerry Norcia, President & CEO to DTE Energy’s board effective June 23, 2019, the board of directors consisted of  
13 directors, 11 of which are independent. 
  Gender:  77% Men and 23% Women 
  Ethnicity:  77% White and 23% African American  
    For information on other significant positions held by DTE Energy board members and their competencies relating to economic, 
environmental, and social topics, visit the DTE Energy’s Board of Directors website
 GRI 102-23  Chair of the highest  Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under "Election of the Chairman and the CEO; Lead independent Director" (p.16)
 GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under "Election of Directors and Vacancies" (p.12 ) 
 highest governance body
 GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest Details can be found on  DTE Energy’s Corporate Governance page
 GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance  Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under “Corporate Governance" (p.12)  and “Public Policy and Responsibility   
 body in setting purpose,   Committee” (p.18)  
 values, and strategy  
 GRI 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under “Election of Directors and Vacancies” (p.12)  and “Public Policy and   
 governance body Responsibility Committee” (p.18)  
 African American
Caucasian 77%23% Female
Male 77%23%2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 14
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to StandardGRI 102-28 Evaluating the highest  Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under “Assessment of Board and Committee Performance” (p.14)  
 governance body’s performance  
 GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing  Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under "Board of Directors Risk Oversight Functions”  (p.19)  
 economic, environmental,  
 and social impacts 
 GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under “Board of Directors Risk Oversight Functions”  (p.19)   
 management process  
 GRI 102-31 Review of economic, Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under “Public Policy and Responsibility Committee”  (p.18)  
 environmental, and  
 social topics  
 GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s  Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under “Public Policy and Responsibility Committee”  (p.18)  
 role in sustainability reporting  
 GRI 102-33 Communicating critical Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under “Communications with the Board” (p.16)  
 concerns
 GRI 102-34 Nature and total number  Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under “Communications with the Board” (p.16)  
 of critical concerns 
 GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement for Board see “Board of Directors Compensation” (p.20)   
  and for Executives see “Executive Compensation” (p.31)
 GRI 102-36 Process for determining  Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement for Board see “Board of Directors Compensation” (p.20)   
  and for Executives see “ Executive Compensation” (p.31)
 GRI 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement for Board see “Board of Directors Compensation” (p.20)   
 in remuneration and for Executives see “ Executive Compensation” (p.31)   
  and “ Proposal No. 3 - Advisory Proposal - Nonbinding Vote to Approve Executive Compensation” (p.30)  
 GRI 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under "CEO Pay Ration" (p.48 ) 
 GRI 102-39 Percentage increase in annual  Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Proxy Statement under "CEO Pay Ration" (p.48)  
 total compensation ratio   2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 15
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups  We engage our stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms that provide meaningful dialogue around topics of mutual interest. The table 
listed in the appendix highlights some of the most significant ways in which we communicate with stakeholders. The last column in the table 
describes the material issues that each group is most interested in, based on our interactions and what we hear from our stakeholders. Click 
on each topic to view the report section that discusses DTE Energy’s programs and performance in that area.
  Please see the Stakeholder Engagement Table  
 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining  49% of DTE Energy’s full-time employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements  
 agreements 
 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting  DTE Energy’s stakeholder engagement process involves outreach to people and organizations that affect or can be affected by company  
 stakeholders  decisions. The stakeholders with whom DTE Energy interacts may support or oppose company decisions, but regardless of their stance, 
DTE Energy believes everyone benefits from the exchange of factual information and open dialogue. DTE Energy’s ongoing membership and 
participation in energy policy organizations, state and national trade associations, industry and customer advocacy coalitions and other 
groups helps the company identify stakeholders, particularly as new issues emerge in the industry. 
   DTE Energy’s Community Outreach Team engages hundreds of neighborhood groups, nonprofits, multicultural organizations, and faith 
institutions throughout the company’s service area to understand and elevate community issues relevant to DTE Energy’s operations.
   DTE Energy maintains a Community Advisory Council, which consists of 16 community leaders who meet three times a year along with 
DTE Energy’s C-suite members and Corporate External Affairs teams. The council enables DTE Energy to identify emerging issues, better 
understand local perceptions of DTE Energy and improve community relationships. 
   We identify elected and appointed government officials at the local, state, and federal levels as well as business leaders through our 
Government Affairs Team, who is charged with identifying those government, political, and business leaders critical to our business, services, 
and customers. DTE Energy’s Regulatory Affairs Team identifies and engages regulatory stakeholders.
   DTE Energy executive leaders identify potential stakeholders through their service as board members of approximately 100 nonprofit and 
other organizations located in DTE Energy’s service territory. DTE Energy’s Supplier Diversity Advisory Council helps identify suppliers with 
which DTE Energy might do business.
   DTE Energy also engages with environmental non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to foster working relationships to enhance the 
environment and wellbeing of the communities where we live and serve. Working together to develop mutual solutions to environmental 
issues is in everyone’s best interest. We engage and serve on the boards of environmental NGOs such as The Nature Conservancy and 
Southwest Detroit Environmental Vision to bring DTE Energy’s environmental perspective and technical expertise to help address 
environmental issues.
 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder  We engage our stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms that provide meaningful dialogue around topics of mutual interest. For  
 engagement  additional information on our approach to stakeholder engagement, please see the Stakeholder Engagement Table  and Industry and National 
Advocacy Associations  tables.2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 16
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised  DTE Energy communicates on key topics and concerns with stakeholder groups through several channels including our Corporate Citizenship  
 with stakeholders  Highlights , Empowering Michigan blog  posts, the DTE Energy website , the DTE Energy newsroom , and through DTE Energy’s social media 
presence on Facebook , LinkedIn , Twitter , and YouTube . DTE Energy employee communication is primarily through Quest, the company’s 
internal website, and email. 
  For key topics and concerns, please see the Stakeholder Engagement Table . 
 GRI 102-45 Entities included in  See DTE Energy Company 10-K for Year Ending 12-31-18, Consolidated Statements pages 59-73 . 
 consolidated financial   
 statements  All entities in DTE Energy’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents are covered in this GRI report and DTE Energy’s 10-K.
 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and  This Corporate Citizenship Report is built around DTE Energy’s material aspects or topics that have a direct or indirect impact on the  
 topic boundaries company’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for DTE Energy, our stakeholders and society at large. 
   DTE Energy updated its materiality assessment for the 2016-2017 Corporate Citizenship Report to evaluate and prioritize key sustainability 
issues for its business and stakeholders. This included a benchmarking of five peer companies, interviews with external stakeholders from 
a variety of organizations and a survey completed by stakeholders within DTE Energy as well as outside the company. We believe that the 
issues identified by our stakeholders in the 2017 assessment are still relevant. 
   In determining the content for this year’s Corporate Citizenship Report, DTE Energy applied the principles laid out in the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards. Issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board in late 2016, the GRI Standards are a voluntary global 
framework, intended for use by organizations to report about their impacts on the economy, the environment and society. 
 GRI 102-47 List of material topics See Materiality in 2016-2017 Corporate Citizenship Repor t.
 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information There are no restatements of information in DTE Energy’s report covering 2018.
 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting There are no changes in reporting in material topics or reporting boundaries compared to last year’s report.
 GRI 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2018
 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report Published in summer 2018, DTE Energy’s previous report covered the 2017 calendar year.
 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions  DTEImpact.com . 
 regarding the report 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 17
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in  In accordance with GRI Standards Core option  
 accordance with the  
 GRI Standards 
 GRI 102-55 GRI content index  This report lists every GRI Standard disclosure, in numerical order, and includes references to other documents where appropriate. See the 
Table of Contents at the front of this report to navigate to specific sections and pages. 
 GRI 102-56 External assurance  DTE Energy applied the GRI Standards as the basis for this Corporate Citizenship Report, in accordance with the Core option. This report was 
reviewed by internal subject matter experts in each GRI disclosure area.
 GRI 103 Management Approach 
   DTE Energy manages its material issues in a thoughtful and responsible way. For each of our material topics, we have internal policies, goals 
and targets that drive improvement. We monitor progress through management dashboards to track metrics. Our code of business conduct 
and ethics — the DTE Energy Way — is publicly available in the Corporate Governance  section of our website. Many other policies — including 
health and safety, cybersecurity and diversity and inclusion — are distributed internally. We have a robust training program that covers in 
detail the policies relevant to each employee’s duties. 
   Our commitment to Continuous Improvement (CI) provides us with a framework for evaluating the effectiveness of our management 
approach. We conduct regular reviews of our activities and incorporate lessons learned in a “plan, do, check and act” CI cycle that benefits 
future projects. 
   For more information on DTE Energy’s policies and programs addressing key impacts and material issues, see our 10-K filing with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission  and our 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report , Volume 1 , which is based on 
the Edison Electric Institute industry sector template; and DTEImpact.com .
 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material  See the 2016-2017 Materiality assessment for more information . 
 topic and its boundary 
 GRI 103-2 The management approach  See the 2016-2017 Materiality assessment for more information . 
 and its components 
 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management  See the 2016-2017 Materiality assessment for more information . 
 approach2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 18
GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard
GRI 200: Economic 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard
 GRI 201 Economic Performance
 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value  Direct economic value generated (revenues), economic value distributed (operating costs, employee wages and benefits, payments to  
 generated and distributed  providers of capital, etc.) and economic value retained (“direct economic value generated” less “economic value distributed”) can be found in 
our 10-K filing . 
 GRI 201-2 Financial implications and risks  Please see DTE Energy’s 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report (pages 3-6) . 
 and opportunities due to  Please see DTE Energy’s 2019 CDP Climate Change Report – C2.3a and C2.4a (pages 11-23) . 
 climate change  Please see DTE Energy’s 2019 Integrated Resource Plan Summary (pages 2-12) .
 GRI 201-3  Defined benefit plan obligations  Refer to DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, Footnote 20 – Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets pages 127-138 . 
 and other retirement plans 
 GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 from government
 GRI 202 Market Presence
 GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 wage by gender compared to  
 local minimum wage 
 GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 management hired from the  
 local community 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 19
GRI 200: Economic (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 
 GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments  We will achieve our commitment to reduce carbon emissions through aggressive investment in energy efficiency, renewables, a new  
 and services supported  state-of-the-art natural gas combined-cycle plant, our voluntary renewable programs and earlier coal plant retirements. In our 2019 Integrated 
Resource Plan, we demonstrate we can do this in a way that ensures our energy sources remain reliable and the power they produce 
affordable. The plan, submitted to the Michigan Public Service Commission per Michigan’s 2016 energy law, focuses on the next five years and 
considers the most affordable and reliable mix of generation sources that are available today. We will continue to revisit and refine our plan as 
technology develops, customer desires and trends become more clear, and costs decline.
   DTE Energy will also invest nearly $4.2 billion in electric infrastructure upgrades over the next five years. These investments are a win 
for our customers and communities. They will improve and strengthen the power grid that delivers safe, reliable and affordable energy to 
homes and businesses to better prepare Michigan for the future, and will bring jobs through both DTE Energy hires and partnerships with 
local contractors and businesses. Additionally, improved quality of energy delivery and fewer outages are estimated to provide more than $6 
billion-$9 billion of economic benefits to our customers. 
  Additional details can be found in the following documents:
   •  DTE Energy’s 2019 Integrated Resource Plan Summary
   •  DTE Energy’s 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report , Volume 1  
   •  DTE Energy Electric Infrastructure Report
 GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic  While we are headquartered in Detroit, we are deeply committed to the communities we serve statewide, and we work to make all of  
 impacts  Michigan a better place to live, work and play. We believe that our efforts are making our state, our cities and our communities better, 
stronger and more prosperous. 
   Our employees serve with their energy in communities where they live and work by volunteering thousands of hours at nonprofit 
organizations across the state, contributing more than $6 million in value to our communities. More than 50% of our employees are now 
engaged in volunteerism, including skills-based volunteerism where their passions can match their purpose, making DTE Energy a “world 
class” volunteerism company.
   Our work in neighborhoods in and around DTE Energy facilities is making a notable impact. We opened DTE Energy’s Beacon Park in the 
summer of 2017 on a parcel of land that was formerly an industrial site surrounded by barbed wire fencing. The park has already attracted 
more than a million visitors with family-friendly events and concerts. Most importantly, the development of Beacon Park has lived up to its 
name acting as a beacon to others to invest in the area – more than $140 million to-date. We also serve with our energy beyond downtown 
Detroit. We’re working in partnership with neighbors in the historic North End neighborhood of Detroit to help make the vision they have  
for their neighborhood a reality. We’re working hand-in-hand with the community to beautify it, make it safer and tie it to workforce 
development efforts.2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 20
GRI 200: Economic (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic  We’ve become intentional about supporting Michigan businesses by recruiting them to our supplier base to play our own role in economic  
 (cont.)   development. In 2011, we spent $475 million with Michigan-based suppliers. Today, we spend nearly $1.8 billion, a four-fold increase. Since 
making this commitment, we have created and sustained more than 24,000 local jobs. And, since 2013, we have spent $2.4 billion with 
women and minority-owned businesses, including $1.8 billion with Detroit suppliers. And to ensure affordability and reliability of electricity 
far into the future, we’re diversifying our energy sources by building one of the nation’s most efficient natural gas plants and retiring three 
coal plants by 2022. 
   To learn more about what DTE Energy is doing to be a force for growth and prosperity, visit our website at DTEImpact.com .
  Watch our latest video to see how DTE Energy serves with its energy .
 GRI 204 Procurement Practices 
 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on DTE Energy spent $1.7 billion with Michigan businesses in 2018, creating and sustaining more than 8,000 jobs across the state and exceeding  
 local suppliers   its in-state spending goal by $800,000. DTE Energy also spent $472 million with certified diverse suppliers and captured 11 industry-wide 
supplier diversity achievement awards. 
  Click here for a DTE blog post on our Michigan spend in 2018
  For more information, please visit DTE Energy’s 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 1  beginning on  
  page 8. 
  For additional and historical details, refer to the Performance Data Table . 
 GRI 205 Anti-Corruption
 GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 related to corruption 
 GRI 205-2 Communication and training  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 about anti-corruption policies  
 and procedures 
 GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 corruption and action taken 
 GRI 206 Anti-Competitive Behavior 
 GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti- Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 competitive behavior, anti-trust,   
 and monopoly practices2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 21
 
GRI 300: Environmental 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard
 GRI 301 Materials 
 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight  Below is a list of the materials/fuel used to produce electricity for DTE Energy in 2018.  
 or volume 
 GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used In 2018, the St. Clair Power Plant fired 732,879 gallons of #6 Fuel Oil (Used Oil).
 GRI 301-3 Reclaimed products and their  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 packaging materials 
 GRI 302 Energy
 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP – Climate Change” – Item C8. “Energy ”.  
 the organization 
 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 of the organization Materials/Fuels Units 2018
Coal Tons 15,846,695
Natural Gas Mcf 27,117,333
Blast Furnace Gas tcf 4,473,078
Coke Oven Gas tcf 2,893,332
No. 2 Oil Gallons 6,025,998
No. 6 Oil Gallons 5,913
High Sulfur Oil Gallons 5842019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 22
GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.
 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy  In 2018, DTE Energy Headquarters and Service Centers reduced their electricity usage by 1.55 million kilowatt-hours (5.74% over 2017  
 consumption  electricity usage) as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives. DTE Energy has a companywide goal to reduce electricity usage 
by 25% by 2022, from a baseline year of 2017.  The 2018 electricity reduction accounts for 56% of the 25% goal.
   DTE Energy utilizes industry standards and methodologies from various organizations such as ASHRAE (The American Society of Heating, 
Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, a global professional association seeking to advance heating, ventilation, air conditioning and 
refrigeration systems design and construction)  and IESNA (Illuminating Engineering Society of North America, a recognized technical and 
educational authority on illumination) to develop baseline consumption and calculate energy savings.  Measurement and verification is also 
implemented via actual metered consumption.
 GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy  Refer to DTE’s Energy Waste Reduction Annual Report .   
 requirements of products  
 and services 
 GRI 303 Water 
   We use water from lakes and rivers to cool our thermal electric power plants. Our power plants withdraw and return water to Michigan’s 
surface waters under the authority of permits issued by the State of Michigan. In addition, our Taggart gas facility in Six Lakes, Michigan 
withdraws water for cooling of the gas compressors at the site.
 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Water Security Report” – Item W1.2h. “Total Water Withdrawal ”.
 GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 affected by withdrawal of water 
 GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused  Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Water Security Report” – Item W1.2i. “Total Water Discharge” and Item W1.2j “Proportion of Total Waste 
Use Recycled or Reused ”.
 GRI 304 Biodiversity 
 GRI 304-1 Operations sights owned,  The Trenton Channel Power Plant (located in Trenton, Michigan) and the Enrico Fermi II Nuclear Generating Station (located in Newport,  
 leased, managed in, or  Michigan) are both adjacent to the USFWS International Wildlife Refuge.  DTE Energy is part of a cooperative management agreement  
 adjacent to, protected areas  with the refuge for a total of 656 acres.  This property is owned by DTE Energy and managed by USFWS.  Part of the refuge includes areas  
 and areas of high biodiversity  of high biodiversity including important coastal wetlands and forested habitat.  
 value outside protected areas 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 23
GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard
 GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of activities,  DTE Energy performs due diligence evaluations on real estate acquisitions or before major construction projects begin on existing properties  
 products, and services  owned and/or maintained by DTE Energy.  These due diligence evaluations include reviews of potential impacts to threatened and  
 on biodiversity  endangered species, or other protected natural features.  If threatened and endangered species or other regulated features are detected at a 
site, DTE Energy conducts mitigation activities to avoid and or minimize the impacts in accordance with state or federal law.  
   Activities that positively impact biodiversity, such as installation of pollinator gardens, native prairie plantings, birdhouses, or bat houses are 
captured in reports that are submitted to the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) for DTE Energy’s 34 WHC-Certified sites.  These reports describe 
site specific biodiversity goals and metrics that are required by WHC to maintain certification.  
 GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or restored  At DTE Energy, we work to take care of the land, water and living creatures on our properties and beyond. Among the largest landowners 
in Michigan, DTE Energy voluntarily maintains 8,000 acres of land in its natural state, thereby providing habitat for hundreds of species of 
birds, mammals, fish and insects. We also reclaim previously disturbed land to create and manage habitat featuring native Michigan plants, 
such as gardens that benefit the monarch butterfly and other pollinators. We also manage about 140 acres to support biodiversity required 
for mitigation. 
  Wildlife Habitat Council Certified Sites 
   DTE Energy properties are home to hundreds of species of wildlife, some of which are endangered or threatened. DTE Energy facilities are 
often located on properties with abundant opportunities for wildlife and DTE Energy is helping to attract and increase wildlife populations 
at these sites. To this end, DTE Energy has 34 sites certified under the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), a nonprofit organization that helps 
companies manage their property for the benefit of wildlife. 
  Please refer to the  table in the appendix . 
 GRI 304-4 IUCN Red List species and  There are currently three federally listed species impacted by DTE Energy’s operations.  These species include:  Indiana Bat (endangered),  
 national conservation list  Northern Long-eared Bat (threatened), and Eastern Massasauga (threatened).  The Eastern Massasauga can be found at the Fermi II Nuclear  
 species with habitats in areas  Power Plant.  It should be noted that the site operations may actually benefit the species due to large areas of habitat created on site, as well  
 affected by operations as an information and awareness campaign.
 GRI 305 Emissions 
 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C5. “Emissions Methodology ”.
  Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C6.1. “Scope 1 Emissions ”.
  Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Items C6.7. and C6.7a. “Biologically Sequestered Carbon ”.
  Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C7.1a. “Scope 1 Emissions by Greenhouse Gas Type ”.
  Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C7.3a. “Scope 1 Emissions by Business Division ”.2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 24
GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 305-1  Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions  For a breakdown of DTE Electric’s direct GHG emissions which make-up more than 90% of DTE Energy’s direct emissions, refer to DTE Energy’s  
   annual “ Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 1”, EEI ESG Sustainability Template – Section 2:  Quantitative 
Information - Emissions, page 12 . 
 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2)  Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C6.3. “Scope 2 Emissions ”. 
 GHG emissions 
 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3)  Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C6.5. “Scope 3 Emissions ”. 
 GHG emissions 
 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C6.10. “Combined Scope 1 and 2 Emissions Intensity ”.
 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C4.1a. “Emissions Targets and Progres s”.
  Refer to DTE Energy’s annual “ Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 1”, Environmental, page 3 . 
  Refer to DTE Energy’s “ Our Journey to 80 ” website.
  Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 Integrated Resource Plan Executive Summary ”.
 GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 substances (ODS) 
 GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur  Refer to DTE Energy’s annual “ Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 1”, – Section 2 :Quantitative Information  
 oxides (SO), and other   - Emissions (page 13 ). 
 significant air emissions  
 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste  
   Fly ash and bottom ash are byproducts of the coal burned in our power plants. Synthetic gypsum is a byproduct of the flue gas 
desulfurization (FGD) units that reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired plants. These coal combustion residual (CCR) materials — ash 
and synthetic gypsum — are recycled to the greatest extent possible. The portion of the CCR not recyclable is disposed in state and federally 
regulated landfills and impoundments. Our ash recycling rates dropped starting in 2016 as we brought sorbent injection and activated carbon 
emission controls on line to meet the Mercury and Air Toxic Standards (MATS) rule. The presence of sorbents and activated carbon in coal ash 
reduces its acceptability for beneficial reuse.
   Gypsum is used as a component in drywall manufacturing and as a beneficial additive in agriculture. In 2018, we recycled 100% of the 
gypsum produced at DTE Energy power plants.2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 25
GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 306 Effluents and Waste  (cont.)   DTE Energy operates three licensed landfills to dispose of unrecycled fly ash and CCR. Each coal plant has on-site facilities for managing CCR 
before it is recycled or disposed. These landfills operate in compliance with applicable state and federal laws and are routinely inspected by 
state and local regulatory agencies. We assess the condition of our facilities and equipment on a regular basis and conduct maintenance and 
repairs as necessary to maintain structural integrity and operational performance.
 GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality  Refer to DTE Energy’s “ 2019 CDP - Water Security Report” – Item W1.2i. “Total Water Discharge ”.  
 and destination 
 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and  DTE Energy’s pollution prevention programs help to minimize impacts and conserve resources by reducing the volume of waste that would  
 disposal method  otherwise go to landfills for disposal.  DTE Energy also recovers used oil for energy across our gas and electric utilities.  In addition, DTE 
Energy captured food and paper waste at its Detroit headquarters campus, diverting these waste streams from landfills.
Hazardous Waste Tons
Recycling 0
Recovery 0
Fuel Blending 3.1
Incineration 11.8
Landfill 39.2
Total 54.1
Other Wastes Tons
Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) 84
Asbestos 202
Universal Waste 43
Non-Hazardous Wastes (Recycled) Tons
Gypsum 443,899
Fly and Bottom Ash 203,702
Copper 483
Lead 366
Aluminum 265
Steel / Ferrous – Electric Operations 2,5822019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 26
GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 306-2 Waste by type and  
 disposal method (cont.)
 GRI 306-3 Significant spills Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.
 GRI 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.
 GRI 306-5 Water bodies affected by water  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 discharges and/or runoff Non-Hazardous Wastes (Recycled) Tons
Steel / Ferrous – Gas Operations 501
Non-Ferrous / Wire Bundles 347
Non-Ferrous  (e.g. transformers) 2,764
Miscellaneous Metals 1,366
Meters – Electric 60
Meters – Gas 358
Outage Materials (e.g. poles, wires,  
equipment from storms)1,841
Plastic (HDPE) 25
Scrap Electronics 12
Transformer Oil 312 (83,260 gallons)
Cardboard 217
Wood (e.g. poles, pallets) 447
Paper 268
Other Waste Diversions
Composting 31.6 tons
Waste to energy (incineration) 344 tons
Used Oil 199,401 gallons2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 27
GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 
 GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with  
 environmental laws  
 and regulations 
 GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 
 GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were  DTE Energy is a founding member of the Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance (EUISSCA), an organization of utilities and  
 screened using  suppliers working together to advance sustainability best practices in utility supply chain activities and supplier networks.  The Alliance’s goal  
 environmental criteria  is to work with industry suppliers and other interested parties to improve environmental performance while advancing sustainable business.  
We are an active member of the Alliance’s survey and knowledge sharing platform teams.  DTE Energy has participated on panels at the 
conference the last several years and is the recipient of the EUISSCA Supplier Outstanding Achievement Award in 2018.  
   In addition to EUISSCA, DTE Energy is involved with The Sustainability Project (TSP), a survey tool introduced in 2018 and designed to 
educate suppliers on environmental best practices and benchmark their sustainability progress. We pushed for changing the survey tool 
to provide a formula for our suppliers to improve their sustainability performance. We measured suppliers' environmental sustainability 
performance with a tool named Ecodesk since 2013 and increased our participation rate from 16 suppliers to 95 suppliers in 2018. We 
currently use the RFP Supplier Sustainability questionnaire on high impact contract sourcing.  This allows us to use sustainability scoring in 
our sourcing decisions.
   In response to a knowledge gap in this area among diverse supplier community, we developed and launched sustainability training at the 
2019 Michigan Minority Supplier Development Council Conference (MMSDC).  A link to the webinar is now available on the MMSDC’s website 
so this knowledge is readily available to all members.
   Internally, we formed a DTE Energy Supply Chain Sustainability Team with members from Supply Chain and the business units.  This team 
meets monthly and is responsible for championing sustainability within their business units and with their suppliers.
  Visit the DTE Energy Supplier Resource site for more details .
 GRI 308-2 Negative environmental  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 impacts in the supply chain  
 and actions taken DTE Electric; DTE Gas; and Gas 
Storage and PipelineDTE Power and Industrial Total
Total monetary value of fines in 2018 $3,250 $25,300 $28,550
Total number of sanctions in 2018 24 violation notices 7 violation notices 31 violation notices2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 28
 
GRI 400:Social
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard
 GRI 401 Employment 
   DTE Energy aspires to create an irresistible organization that furthers our journey to becoming the best operated energy company in North 
America and a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve.
  The strategic objectives include:
   •  Attract and retain the best talent to execute our aspiration and purpose
   •  Create a culture of service and care for both external customers and internal partners
   •  Deepen our safety and well-being culture through training, technology and communications
   •  Deliver a world-class technical training and development experience
   •  Position all leaders to “own” Diversity & Inclusion
   •  Flawless execution of the HR technology roadmap 
   •  Ramp up internal HR service delivery as a key driver to overall service excellence
 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and  
 employee turnover Age of New Hires
Excluding Temps and StudentsNumber Percent of Total
Under 30 438 44%
30-50 488 50%
Over 50 59 6%
Gender of New Hires Number Percent of Total
Female 290 29%
Male 695 71%
Totals 985 100%2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 29
GRI 400: Social (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 401-1 New employee hires and  
 employee turnover (cont.)
 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time  DTE Energy provides competitive, customizable benefits for all of its regular full-time and regular part-time (and, in the case of health care,  
 employees that are not  temporary) employees, and is committed to providing employees with the resources they need to lead healthier lifestyles, including an onsite  
 provided to temporary or  clinic and fitness center.  
 part-time employees  
   DTE Energy offers a Healthy Behavior Incentive Program, which rewards employees in terms of reduced medical premiums for biometric 
screenings, completion of a Health Risk Assessment, and participation in health education on disease management programs. DTE Energy 
offers Consumer Driven Health Plans (CDHPs) in addition to our regular programs. CDHPs provide benefits that actually help consumers 
maintain and improve their health. CDHPs offer a full array of products giving employers and their employees more options. They provide 
customized transitional products and integrated Health Savings Accounts with the same typical benefits of a PPO plan plus a chance to earn 
dollars by taking steps that can help you achieve your health potential. 
  Additional innovative compensation and benefits initiatives at DTE Energy include:
   •  A 401(k) plan/ESOP that is available to all regular full-time and regular part-time employees
   •  Automatic enrollment of new hires in the 401(k) plan
   •  Automatic annual escalation of employee 401(k) contributions, up to 10% of pay
   •  Generous 401(k) matching contributions
   •   Annual participation in America Saves Week, with daily financial education messages and the opportunity to participate in a challenge 
to win up to 50 shares of DTE Energy stock
   •  Child bonding leaves of absence
   •  Additional vacations days are available for employee purchase
   •  Competitive incentive plans are offered to all non-represented employees to create alignment of corporate and individual goals Employee Turnover Age Number of Departures Percent of Beginning  
of 2018 Headcount
Under 30 94 6%
30-50 175 4%
Over 50 380 9%
Employee Turnover Gender Number of Departures Percent of Beginning  
of 2018 Headcount
Female 220 8%
Male 425 6%2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 30
GRI 400: Social (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time We offer several programs and services that target a variety of chronic conditions and lifestyle behaviors. Specifically, we offer telephone,  
 employees that are not online and onsite coaching programs, monthly educational webinars, and physical activity online tools. Through our wellbeing partner,  
 provided to temporary or  employees, retirees and their families are offered a number of opportunities to get engaged through different mediums, flexible operating  
 part-time employees (cont.)   hours, and targeted programming to meet the needs of each individual. Employees and spouses can earn entries in quarterly drawings for 
significant prizes such as shopping sprees, gym membership, fitness related equipment or gift cards.
  For additional benefits for full time employees:  
  Please refer to the Benefits  page. 
  For additional health and wellness benefits for all employees:  
  Please refer to the Health and wellness  page. 
 GRI 401-3 Parental leave  At DTE Energy, we are committed to supporting employees who are experiencing the life-changing journey of expanding their families, 
whether through birth, adoption, fostering or guardianship. In 2018, DTE Energy implemented a Parental Leave Program which is designed 
to provide paid-time off to eligible employees for these events and is intended to be a supplement to the Non-Represented Time Off Program. 
This program is for regular full-time and regular part-time non-represented employees of DTE Energy and its subsidiaries. Eligible employees 
receive up to four weeks of company-paid child-bonding leave that can be can be taken all at once or intermittently, on a schedule agreed 
upon in advance between an employee and their leader, as a supplement to the non-represented employees time off program. 
 GRI 402 Labor/Management Relations 
   DTE Energy has regular meetings where union and company leaders share opportunities for improving operations, customer service and 
employee engagement – and then work together to develop and implement solutions. These meetings occur at all levels of leadership, and  
the open and inclusive communication is key to our successful partnership.
 GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 regarding operational changes 
 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 
 GRI 403-1 Workers representation in  The health and safety of people is DTE Energy’s top priority. Our employees are empowered to stop work – or decide not to begin it – if they  
 formal joint management determine the job is unsafe. The safer we work, the safer we keep our employees, customers and the public – helping to ensure the delivery of  
 worker health and safety  vital energy that fuels the communities we serve.
   Our safety culture is maintained and strengthened with the help of multiple safety committees spanning all levels of the company. Members 
include union representatives, DTE Energy executives, office workers and field employees. Concerns are welcomed and suggestions for 
improvement are encouraged.  Seasonal safety plans are developed and implemented to address the unique challenges of each business unit.  committees2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 31
GRI 400: Social (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 403-1 Workers representation in  All workplace injuries – and incidents that could have caused an injury – are documented and thoroughly reviewed for potential preventive  
 formal joint management measures. We know that each of us is responsible for our own safety and the safety of everyone around us. In 2018, we expanded our safety  
 worker health and safety culture to include our contractors who are held to the same standards.   
 committees (cont.)
 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of  
 injury, occupational diseases,  
 lost days, and absenteeism,  
 and number of work-related  
 fatalities 
 
 GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or Industrial hygiene is an area of employee occupational health and safety that receives intense focus. In addition to thorough training about  
 high risk of diseases related to  such potential hazards as lead, mercury and asbestos, certain employees – due to the nature of their jobs – receive periodic precautionary  
 their occupation testing to ensure they are not absorbing unhealthy levels of harmful substances.
 GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics  Please refer to GRI standard 403-1, paragraph 2 . 
 covered in formal  
 agreements with  
 trade unions  2018
OSHA recordable incident 0.51
DART 0.21
Fatalities DTE Energy had no 
fatalities in 2018Injury Type 2018 Incidents
Animal Bite 1
Arc Flash 2
Burns 5
Caught In, Under or Between 6
Cut by Object 8
Eye Injury 2
Fall from Elevation 1
Insect Bite 5
No Accident 1
Overexertion 11
Slip, Trip, Fall 6
Struck By/Against 10Historic OSHA Rates2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 32
GRI 400: Social (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 404 Training and Education 
   Utilities across the country, including DTE Energy, are managing the largest turnover in our workforce as the baby boomer generation retires.  
Over half of the energy workforce in Michigan will be eligible to retire in the next seven years.  As a result, DTE Energy is focused on working 
with industry and community partners to both improve educational outcomes for students and create employment pipelines to good paying 
jobs that support Michigan’s economic vitality. Our work has a strong focus on at-risk communities in Detroit and across Michigan, including 
populations with barriers to employment, such as minorities, people who are differently-abled, veterans and returning citizens.  While we’re 
building our talent pipeline, we’re also developing our workforce through training and education.
  Youth and adult employment
   Annually, more than 900 college and high school students participate in our summer and year-round employment programs, designed to 
prepare students for future careers.  Some students are provided mentors and services such as resume writing, interview skills, financial 
literacy and transportation. 
   DTE Energy is the only business to host Project Search students in Detroit, a program that helps students with disabilities gain meaningful 
employability skills as they transition out of the public-school system. 
   DTE Energy partners with the Autism Alliance of Michigan (AAoM) to recruit and place people with autism into employment opportunities 
here at our company, which include student internships and temporary and full-time positions.
   DTE Energy is partnering with Career and Technical Centers in Detroit, including Randolph, Breithaupt, and Southeastern, as well as technical 
schools around Michigan, to update their programs, add new equipment, and rebuild their infrastructure to help prepare young people for a 
career in skilled trades.
   DTE Energy and the DTE Energy Foundation have been decade-long supporters of FIRST of Michigan, which encourages students to explore 
the world of STEM, essential fields for the energy industry. By sponsoring 23 high school (FIRST Robotics Competition) and 21 middle school 
(FIRST Tech Challenge) teams across the state, we build early, lasting relationships with youth and encourage them to pursue careers in 
energy and with DTE Energy.
  Hiring people with barriers to employment
   Faced with current and projected skilled trades needs in the energy sector, the Michigan Energy Workforce Development Consortium 
(MEWDC) leveraged its partnerships with education, industry and workforce development agencies in Michigan to create awareness and 
educational pathways for students in the energy industry.  These efforts laid the foundation for the energy talent pipeline efforts in Michigan.
   •   The MEWDC completed critical work in February 2016 by establishing a 17th “career cluster” focused on energy for career and 
technical education (CTE).
   •   Through this work, high school students enrolled in the Energy Industry Fundamentals (EIF) in CTE high schools became eligible  
for “dual college credit” at partnering higher educational institutions such as Henry Ford College, Lansing Community College and 
Alpena College.2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 33
GRI 400: Social (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 404 Training and Education (cont.)   In 2017, in partnership with DTE Energy, Henry Ford College launched its Power and Trades Pathways Program  that provides certificate and 
associate degree programs that benefits multiple career pathways in skilled trades such as electric operations, gas operations, construction 
and engineering.
   By year end 2019, Henry Ford College anticipates 23 students completing pre-apprentice certificates in Natural Gas Distribution and 
Transmission and Overhead Lineworker. Additional information can be found at Discover Skilled Trades . 
   DTE Energy depends on 1,300 skilled tree trimmers to keep trees away from power lines, but Michigan continues to face a critical shortage 
of qualified people. At the same time, people coming out of prison have an unemployment rate of 60 percent – more than 15 times the overall 
state rate – and without stable employment, roughly one-third will reoffend. In 2018, to close DTE Energy’s employment gap and provide job 
opportunities to returning citizens, DTE Energy began working closely with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW)  
Local 17 and the Michigan Department of Corrections to design and install a climbing structure and training curriculum for the  
program at Parnall Vocational Village . 
   Returning citizens will be eligible to join IBEW Local 17 as Line Clearance Tree Trim apprentices after they complete the program and earn 
parole. Students will learn to safely climb trees, use tree trim equipment and obtain a commercial driver’s license in the program. 
    Since the program’s launch in June 2019, 19 individuals have enrolled in the program to-date. We expect 40 people per year to graduate  
from this program. Once we can demonstrate the success of this program, we will expand to other career paths at DTE Energy while 
evaluating other opportunities to expand and scale tree trim training programming. 
  See the Scope of DTE Energy’s youth and adult talent pipeline programs
 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training  
 per year per employee 
   Training is offered to more than just full-time employees. Average hours are based on 11,790 employees, including contractors, co-ops, and 
those who retired in 2018. 
 GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading  At DTE Energy, we know that continuous learning impacts employee performance and engagement. Employees can learn more about  
 employee skills and transition  opportunities to pursue their learning and development and access training courses in an annual learning brochure and on our intranet site.  
 assistance programs  Our foundational capabilities learning curriculum offers about 200 free instructor-led and online courses in nine specialty areas, strategically 
designed to support our corporate priorities. Employees can register for courses of interest on our intranet site.  This year, we launched our 
new learning management system, which provides a more user-friendly experience for our employees, integrating development planning and 
learning in one system.Type of training  Number of hours
Technical and compliance training 378,788 hours
Average number of hours per employee (including full 
time employees and contractors)  33 hours 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 34
GRI 400: Social (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading  DTE Energy offers two leadership development curriculums: Aim2Lead is a part of the Strong Leadership Foundational capability, a  
 employee skills and transition custom-built training program designed for Individual Contributors who are inspired to become future leaders at our company. Leading with  
 assistance programs (cont.)   Energy is a comprehensive development program for front-line leaders new to their leadership role at DTE Energy. Leaders gain insight, 
feedback and personal growth, while learning about the company’s competencies and foundational capabilities that are critical to exceptional 
leadership and achieving our company’s aspiration.   
   We launched a partnership with Davenport University to offer employees corporate education scholarships. DTE Energy employees can  
enroll in a Davenport undergraduate or graduate business or technology program and receive a scholarship of up to $5,000 per year, 
in addition to reimbursement provided by DTE Energy. All active, represented and non-represented full-time employees of DTE Energy 
utility companies are eligible to participate in the tuition reimbursement program up to an annual maximum reimbursement of $5,250 for 
undergraduate degrees, certificate programs and individual coursework and $7,500 for graduate degrees. Active part-time employees are 
eligible for annual maximum reimbursement is $2,625 for undergraduate degrees, certificate programs and individual coursework, and  
$3,750 for graduate degrees. 
 GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees  100% of non-represented, regular employees have an opportunity to participate in goal-setting at the beginning of the year, a mid-year  
 receiving regular performance  evaluation to review progress on performance and development goals, and a year-end review on performance and development. Depending on  
 reviews and career  when an employee hires into the company, the full annual review process may be pushed to the next review period. “Regular” employees do  
 development reviews not include temporary personnel, contractors, interns, students, or seasonal staff.
 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance  
 bodies and employees 
 GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and  DTE Energy is committed to offering compensation that is competitive, market-driven and internally equitable. To ensure this, DTE Energy  
 remuneration of women  conducts an annual review of compensation practices as part of its affirmative action programs. Approximately half of DTE Energy’s  
 to men  employees are represented by unions, where pay is uniformly determined through contracts regardless of an employee’s gender. For non-
represented employees, DTE Energy’s Human Resources professionals establish pay ranges for each job classification, and then work with 
hiring leaders to make competitive offers within the range to candidates based on objective factors like years of experience and strength of 
skills relevant to the job.Male Female Under 30 years 
of Age30-50 Years  
of AgeOver 50 Years  
of AgeMinority 
Percentage
DTE Energy Board 75% 25% 0% 0% 100% 25%
Executives and Seniors Leaders 81% 19% 0% 24% 76% 25%
Managers and Supervisors 77% 23% 2% 55% 44% 22%
Individual Contributors/Workers 73% 27% 13% 48% 38% 29%2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 35
GRI 400: Social (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 406 Non-Discrimination 
 GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination  DTE Energy takes all reports of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation seriously.  All reported concerns are fully investigated, and  
 and corrective actions taken appropriate action is taken in every situation where inappropriate behavior is substantiated.
 GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 
   At DTE Energy, we are committed to providing all employees, including 49% who are members of labor unions, with competitive wages and 
benefits, safe working conditions and opportunities to learn and grow while we work together toward achieving our aspiration to be the best-
operated energy company and a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve.
   DTE Energy has regular meetings where union and company leaders share opportunities for improving operations, customer service and 
employee engagement – and then work together to develop and implement solutions. These meetings occur at all levels of leadership, and the 
open and inclusive communication is key to our successful partnership.
 GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 which the right to freedom of  
 association and collective  
 bargaining may be at risk 
 GRI 408 Child Labor 
 GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 significant risk for incidents  
 of child labor 
 GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor  
 GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 significant risk for incidents of  
 forced or compulsory labor 
 GRI 410 Security Practices 
 GRI 410-1 Security personnel trained in  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 human rights polices  
 or procedures 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 36
GRI 400: Social (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 411 Rights Of Indigenous Peoples 
 GRI 411-1 Incidents of violations involving Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 rights of indigenous peoples 
 GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 
 GRI 412-1 Operations that have been  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 subject to human rights reviews  
 or impact assessments 
 GRI 412-2 Employee training on human Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 rights policies or procedures 
 GRI 412-3 Significant investment  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 agreements and contracts that  
 include human rights clauses or  
 that underwent human  
 rights screening 
 GRI 413 Local Communities 
 GRI 413-1 Operations with local 100% of DTE Gas and DTE Electric operations perform local community engagement, impact assessment, and/or development programs.   
 community engagement,  Additional information can be found in DTE Energy’s 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report , Volume 1  and on  
 impact, assessment and DTEimpact.com  
 development programs  
 GRI 413-2 Operations with significant  DTE Energy does not report this information.  
 actual and potential negative  
 impacts on local communities 
 GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 
 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were  In 2018, DTE Energy introduced a safety program in which contractors must participate to remain – or become – business partners with the  
 screened using social criteria  company. They are required to maintain a certain level of safety and report their safety metrics in Avetta, a tracking system used by 
companies globally to monitor and audit performance. DTE Energy works with contractors individually and as a group to help them adhere 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 37
GRI 400: Social (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standardto safety standards and improve their processes for the benefit of their employees, DTE Energy’s employees and customers, and the public. 
Contractors can find safety standards in DTE Energy’s Safety Handbook for Contractors and Contractor Employees or Agent s. 
   The DTE Energy Corporate Safety Department has since added a safety element to the Diverse Supplier Mentorship Program by initiating 
Occupational Safety & Health Workshops. These collaborative efforts are designed to share proven utility-based programs with the supply 
base to raise overall safety performance, thus expanding our 200% accountability (100% accountability for oneself and 100% accountability 
for those around you) to all workers at DTE Energy sites.
 GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 supply chain and actions taken 
 GRI 415 Public Policy 
 GRI 415-1 Political contributions  Formed in 1977, the DTE Energy Company Political Action Committee (PAC) is a voluntary, non-partisan committee promoting and supporting 
responsible government through contributions to candidates for election to federal, state and local offices. The DTE Energy PAC enables 
employees to support candidates and key policymakers who support DTE Energy’s mission, business goals, and, most importantly, the best 
interests of DTE Energy customers and employees. It provides DTE Energy employees with an effective, convenient way to participate in the 
democratic process and have their voices heard on key issues. The DTE Energy PAC is guided by a steering committee comprised of company 
employees elected every two years by members of the PAC. Information about DTE Energy PAC contributions can be obtained via the Federal 
Election Commission website and the Michigan Secretary of State’s Bureau of Elections website.
  For more information on 501c5 contributions and corporate donations, reference the links below:
  2017 Disclosure
  Corporate Disclosure Policy
  Lobbying Disclosures   House ID: 31815000
 GRI 416 Customer Health Safety 
 GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and  100% of our gas and electric operations are continuously being monitored for health and safety improvements.  
 safety impacts of product and  
 service categories 
 GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance  DTE Energy does not disclose this information at this time.  
 concerning the health and safety  
 impacts of products and services  2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 38
GRI 400: Social (cont.) 
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling 
 GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 service information and labeling 
 GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 concerning product and service  
 information and labeling 
 GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 concerning marketing  
 communications .
 GRI 418 Customer Privacy 
 GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints DTE Energy IT and Ethics personnel hold an annual meeting with members of the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) staff to provide  
 concerning breaches of a verbal report that addresses the company’s cybersecurity and IT risk planning. In addition to this, DTE Energy communicates any exposures  
 customer privacy and losses  of customer personally identifiable information, or PII, to MPSC staff, and any cyber-attacks to both MPSC staff and the Michigan Fusion  
 of customer data  Center, which is a collaboration between the Michigan State Police, FBI, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, and other 
organizations. The timing of these communications, per the order, is to occur as soon as reasonable, practicable and prior to any public 
notification. In practice, DTE Energy has these communications with MPSC staff once DTE Energy is reasonably certain of the following:
   •  How the incident happened
   •  How it was discovered
   •  What specific information was exposed or accessed
   •  How many customers were affected
   •  How many customers were at risk of being affected
   •  What is being done to remedy the situation for customers
   •  How DTE Energy will ensure that it doesn’t occur again
 GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 
 GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and  Not identified as a material issue for DTE Energy.  
 regulations in the social and  
 economic area 2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 39
 
Sector Specific Reporting:  
Electric Utilities Sector Supplement
 Standard # Standard Description DTE Response to Standard
GRI EU1 Installed capacity Refer to DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, Section “Properties (page 10) .
GRI EU2 Net energy output   Refer to DTE Energy’s annual “ Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report , Volume 1 ” – Section 2:  Quantitative Information - 
Portfolio, (page 11 ).
GRI EU3 Number of residential,   For electric customers, refer to DTE Energy’s annual  “ Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report , Volume 1" – Section 2:  
 industrial, institutional and  Quantitative Information - Portfolio, (page 12 ).
   For gas customers, refer to DTE Energy’s annual “ Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report , Volume 1" ,  AGA Voluntary 
Sustainability Metrics:  Quantitative Information – Natural Gas Distribution, (page 15) .
GRI EU4 Length of above and  Refer to DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, Section “Properties”(page 11 ). 
 un derground transmission and  
 distribution lines 
GRI EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions  DTE Electric operates entirely within the state of Michigan and is not covered by a CO2e emissions trading program.  
 allowances 
GRI EU12 Distribution line losses  The line loss factor of 6.8% used in 2018 can be found in case U-18014  Exhibit A-10 , Schedule C4, line 2.  In the 2019 rate case that was filed 
July 8th, 2019, the loss factor was increased to 7.3% to be applied starting in 2020 (see U-20561 Exhibit A-13 , Schedule C4 line 2). 
GRI EU15 Percentage of employees  More than 50% of DTE Energy’s employees will be eligible to retire in the next five years (by 2024). We are looking for people with great ideas  
 eligible to retire and positive energy to join our company – together we will imagine the next generation of energy – and build it.
GRI EU28 Power outage frequency Power Outage Frequency  
  •  All-weather SAIFI: 1.36  
  •  Excluding major event days: 0.86
GRI EU29 Average power outage duration 485 minutescommercial customer accounts2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 40
 
Supplemental Materials
Industry Associations and National Advocacy Organizations
 Name of Organization Stakeholder Group
American Gas Association Industry Association
American Iron and Steel Institute Industry Association
Biomass Power Association Industry Association
Business Leaders for Michigan Business Partner
Center on Executive Compensation Business Partner
Citizens Research Council Business Partner
Coalition to Keep Michigan Warm Nonprofit
Detroit Regional Chamber Chamber of Commerce
Edison Electric Institute Industry Association
Electric Reliability Coordinating Council Industry Association
Human Resources Policy Association Business Partner
Interstate Natural Gas Association of America Industry Association
Local Chambers - Over 65 across the state Chamber of Commerce
Marcellus Shale Coalition Industry Association
Metropolitan Affairs Coalition Nonprofit
Michigan Association of Counties Government
Michigan Association of Planning Government
Michigan Chamber of Commerce Chamber of Commerce
Michigan Economic Development Corporate Econ Development
lder GroupMichigan Electric and Gas Association Industry Association
Michigan Manufacturers Association Business Partner
Michigan Municipal Electric Association Industry Association
Michigan Municipal League Government
Michigan Retailers Association Business Partner
Michigan Township Association Government
Metro Detroit Visitors & Convention Bureau Business Partner
National Association of Manufacturers Business Partner
National Energy and Affordability Coalition Nonprofit
Northern Michigan Chamber Alliance Chamber of Commerce
Nuclear Energy Institute Industry Association
Nuclear Waste Strategy Coalition Industry Association
Public Affairs Council Business Partner
Small Business Association of Michigan  Business Partner
Spark Ann Arbor Business Partner
The Right Place Nonprofit
U.S. Chamber of Commerce Chamber of Commerce
West Michigan Policy Forum Business Partner2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 41
Supplemental Materials (cont.) Stakeholder Engagement Table  (See GRI standards 102-40 , 102-43 , and 102-44 )
We engage our stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms that provide meaningful dialogue around topics of mutual interest. The table below highlights some of the most 
significant ways in which we communicate with stakeholders. The last column in the table describes the material issues that each group is most interested in, based on our 
interactions and what we hear from our stakeholders. Click on each topic to go to the report section that discusses DTE Energy’s programs and performance in that area.
Stakeholder Group Type of Engagement Frequency Topics Raised
Communities
Community Advisory Council meetings Tri-annual (March, July, November) Customer Service and Assistance Programs
Community Outreach (organizations, events, partnerships)
Jobs and Employment (training, access, hiring process)
Political Involvement (lobbying, advocacy) 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Economic Development (entrepreneurship, small  
business support) 
Energy Efficiency 
Reliability and Infrastructure
Public Safety
Neighborhood developmentCommunity Partners meeting Annual meetings in Southeast Michigan  
and Greater Michigan
External partnerships (nonprofits, chambers, 
associations, clubs attending/supporting events  
& programs) faith-based organizationsRegularly throughout the year
Volunteering (board service, events, long-term 
programs)Regularly throughout the year
Neighborhood stakeholder meetings Quarterly
Customers
DTE Energy website, Empowering Michigan blog,  
DTE Impact websiteUpdated regularly Customer satisfaction
Cybersecurity
Economic development
Energy affordability
Energy efficiency
Greenhouse gases
Reliability and infrastructure
Renewables
Safety
Volunteerism
Corporate CitizenshipBilling statements and messaging Monthly
Press releases and local media Regularly throughout the year
Customer feedback via online comments and  
phone hotlineContinuous dialogue
Account management for large commercial and  
industrial customersContinuous dialogue
J.D. Power survey Twice annually2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 42
Supplemental Materials (cont.) Stakeholder Group Type of Engagement Frequency Topics Raised
Employees
Company intranet (Quest) Updated regularly Community assistance
Volunteerism
Cybersecurity
Diversity and inclusion
Employee engagement
Safety
Environment
Corporate CitizenshipTraining events Ongoing throughout the year
Town Hall meetings Regularly throughout the year
Employee feedback via online comments Continuous dialogue
Gallup engagement survey Semi-Annual
Volunteerism Ongoing throughout the year
Employee Energy Groups Monthly 
Performance reviews Annual, with mid-year check-ins
Facility neighbors
Press releases and local media Regularly throughout the year Air emissions
Community assistance
Economic development
Habitat and biodiversity
Reliability and infrastructure
Renewables
Safety
Waste management
Public Safety
Education
Jobs and Employment
Transportation
BeautificationCommunity meetings associated with specific  
facility projects or eventsPeriodically as needed
Program partner newsletters and communications Periodically as needed
Community meetings associated with ongoing 
neighborhood work and programmingRegularly throughout the yearStakeholder Engagement Table  (See GRI standards 102-40 , 102-43 , and 102-44 )2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 43
Supplemental Materials (cont.) Stakeholder Group Type of Engagement Frequency Topics Raised
Government (local, state, federal)
Attendance at state agency meetings and  
legislative hearingsContinuous dialogue Community assistance
Customer satisfaction
Cybersecurity
Economic development
Energy affordability
Energy efficiency
Greenhouse gas emissions
Reliability and infrastructure
Renewables
Safety
EnvironmentAttendance at meetings and hearings with  
federal regulators and policymakersContinuous dialogue
Volunteer events Regularly throughout the year
Press releases and local media Regularly throughout the year
Facility tours for legislators Regularly throughout the year
Industry Associations
Attendance at regular meetings and conferences.  
For example:Regularly throughout the year  
(monthly, quarterly and annual)Air emissions
Cybersecurity
Energy efficiency
Greenhouse gases
Habitat and biodiversity 
Reliability and infrastructure
Renewables
Waste management•  Edison Electric Institute
•  Nuclear Energy Institute
•  American Gas Association
•  Interstate Natural Gas Association of America
•  Michigan Manufacturers Association
•  Michigan Chamber of Commerce
•  Detroit Regional Chamber
Ongoing discussions around specific topics  
of concern to DTE EnergyContinuous dialogue on a project or  
case by case basisStakeholder Engagement Table (See GRI standards 102-40 , 102-43 , and 102-44 )2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 44
Supplemental Materials (cont.) Stakeholder Group Type of Engagement Frequency Topics Raised
Environmental groups
Attendance at regular meetings and  
conference, including:
•  The Nature Conservancy
•  Wildlife Habitat Council
•   Detroiters Working for Environmental  
Justice Habitat and Biodiversity
•  Southwest Detroit Environmental VisionRegularly throughout the year
 Air emissions
Energy efficiency
Greenhouse gases
Renewables
Waste management
Ongoing discussions around specific topics  
of concern to environmental groups related to  
DTE Energy activitiesContinuous dialogue on a project or  
case by case basis
Shareholders
Investor calls Quarterly GHG emissions
Reliability and infrastructure
Renewables
Safety
Financial performancePress releases Periodically throughout the year
DTE Energy Investor Relations website Updated regularly
Investor Relations Day 2-5 years
Suppliers 
Supplier meetings, symposiums, executive reviews Weekly, Monthly, Quarterly and/or Annually Cybersecurity
Diversity and inclusion
Economic development
Energy efficiency
Energy affordability
Reliability and infrastructure 
Renewables
Safety
Waste managementSupplier scorecards Weekly, Monthly, Quarterly and/or Annually
      Stakeholder Engagement Table  (See GRI standards 102-40 , 102-43 , and 102-44 )2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 45
Supplemental Materials (cont.) Wildlife Habitat Council Site Location Initial Certified Certification
  Certification Through Status
Allen Road Service Center  
  Complex Melvindale 2008 2019 Gold
Alpena Service Center Alpena 2009 2019 Certified
Ashley Mews Ann Arbor 2007 2019 Gold
Belle River Mills  
  Compressor Station East China Twp. 2008 2019 Gold
Belle River Power Plant East China Twp. 1996 2019 Silver
Big Rapids Service Station Big Rapids 2010 2019 Gold
Cadillac Service Center Cadillac 2010 2019 Silver
Citizen’s Gas Adrian 2016 2020 Certified
Coolidge Service Center Wayne 2018 2020 Silver
Detroit Headquarters Complex Detroit 2000 2020 Silver
Escanaba Service Center Escanaba 2015 2019 Silver
Fermi 2 Nuclear Power Plant Newport 2000 2019 Gold
Gaylord Transmission & Storage  
    Operations Service Station Gaylord 2012 2019 Silver
Grayling Service Center Grayling 2008 2019 Silver
Greenwood Energy Center Kenockee 2004 2021 Gold
Huron Renewable Energy Center Bad Axe 2018 2020 Silver
Kalkaska T&SO Kalkaska 2009 2020 Silver
Kingsford Service Center Kingsford 2015 2020 Gold
Ludington Service Center Ludington 2009 2019 SilverWildlife Habitat Council Site Location Initial Certified Certification
  Certification Through Status
Michigan Avenue Service Center Ypsilanti 2008 2020 Gold
Milford Compressor Station Milford 2009 2019 Silver
Monroe Power Plant Monroe 1999 2021 N/A
Mt. Pleasant Service Center Mt. Pleasant 2008 2019 Silver
Muskegon Service Center Muskegon 2009 2019 Gold
Newport Service Center Monroe 2016 2020 Silver
Petoskey Service Center Petoskey 2015 2019 Certified
River Rouge Power Plant River Rouge 2004 2021 N/A
Sault Ste. Marie Service Center Sault Ste. Marie 2015 2019 Certified
St. Clair Power Plant East China Twp. 2001 2019 Silver
Tawas Service Center Tawas 2009 2019 Silver
Traverse City Gas Operations Traverse City 2009 2019 Silver
Trenton Channel Power Plant  
   and Sibley Quarry Trenton  2020 Gold
W.C. Taggart  
  Compressor Station Six Lakes 2003 2020 Gold
Washington-10  
   Compressor Station Romeo 2008 2019 Gold
Wealthy Street Station Grand Rapids 2012 2020 Silver
Western Wayne Service Center Belleville  2019 SilverWildlife Habitat Council Certified Sites  (See GRI 304-3 )2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 46
Supplemental Materials (cont.) Performance Data Table 
Performance Metric Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
 Employees            
Employee Engagement Gallup Grand Mean Score   ~  4.28 4.27 4.33 4.38 4.38
Occupational Safety and Health Administration  
   (OSHA) Recordable Rate  ~ 0.99 0.77 0.45 0.67 0.51
 Customers            
Reliability Duration Index (minutes)  ~ 793 277 239 1,063 485
Enrollment in Low-Income Self-Sufficiency Plan ~  22,000 34,000 35,000 40,000 34,344
 Community            
Spending in Michigan (million dollars)  $ $922  $945  $1,300  $1,700  $1,710 
Total spend of total procurement   % 47.76% 42.28% 46.13% 68% 58%
Total number of volunteers  # N/A 1,100 2,300 3,500 5,100
Total number of volunteer hours  # N/A 12,000 21,750 57,681 90,582
Total amount of skills-based volunteer hours  # N/A N/A N/A 18,500 33,690
 Climate Change            
Net gas energy savings - customer programs MMCf 1,413 1,480 1,620 1,735 1,750
Required gas savings MMcf 1,209 1,178 1,301 1,305 1,286
Net electricity energy savings -  
   customer programs GWh 682 621 631 762 728
Required electricity savings GWh 478 485 481 485 471
CO2 emissions  million tons 36.6 34.5 29.7 31.1 32.92019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 47
Supplemental Materials (cont.) Performance Metric Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
 Environment NOTE1            
NOx emissions  tons 32,185 24,405 19,740 20,354 21,783
SO2 emissions  tons 83,447 67,064 48,375 44,483 46,004
Particulate emissions tons 1,105 764 530 516 557
Mercury emissions tons 0.522 0.479 0.115 0.082 0.077
Water withdrawal billion gallons 1,242 1,196 1,042 1,050 1,095
Water consumption billion gallons 18.8 19.63 18.67 19.62 20.03
Coal ash generation million tons 0.92 0.90 0.71 0.76 0.75
Recycling rates for ash % 42% 41.08% 25.76% 22.59% 27.05%
Gypsum generation million tons 0.28 0.39 0.36 0.41 0.44
Recycling rates for gypsum % 100% 93.89% 100% 99.86% 100%
Recycling rates (combined ash and gypsum) % 55% 57.08% 50.77% 49.91% 54.11%
 Our Company            
Operating Earnings Per Share (EPS)  $ $4.60  $4.82 $5.28 $5.59 $6.30
Annual Growth Rate in Operating EPS  % 12.47% 4.78% 9.54% 5.87% 12.70%
Annual Shareholder Return (percent)   % 34.61% -3.77% 26.33% 14.6% 4.2%
Funds from operations (“FFO”)/debt ratio  % Debt/Capital:  Debt/Capital:  Debt/Capital:  Debt/Capital:  Debt/Capital:  
   51% 51% 51% 51%  51% 52% 
   FFO/Debt:  FFO/Debt:  FFO/Debt:  FFO/Debt:  FFO/Debt:  
   25%  21% 21% 20% 19% 
Diluted earnings per common share (dollars)  $ $5.10  $4.05  $4.83  $6.32  $6.17 
Net income (million dollars)   $ $905  $727  $868  $1,112  $1,120 
Operating revenue (billion dollars)   $ $12.3  $10.3  $10.6  $12.6  $14.2Performance Data Table (cont.)2019 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, Volume 2 DTE Energy 48
Supplemental Materials (cont.) 
DTE Energy’s youth and adult talent pipeline programs