2013 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT
A Force forGrowth ProsperityP 1 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Contents
Contents
About This Report    40 
Goals and Performance SummaryCommunity      14 
Our work is a powerful means to serve others  
Employees      24 
We play to win as a team  Customers      18 
We see our work through the eyes of those we serve  
Environment     30 
Leading the way on environmental excellenceCEO Message     2  
About Us      4 
 We serve with our energy, the lifeblood of communities  
and the engine of progressDTE Energy’s aspiration is to be the best–operated energy company in 
North America and a force for growth and prosperity in the communities 
where we live and serve. For thousands of DTE employees, this is 
more than just a job. We spend half of our waking hours at work 
and share a unified purpose: to serve with our energy, the lifeblood 
of communities and the engine of progress. Our sense of purpose 
has helped sustain us during some tough times and will continue to 
inspire and strengthen us through whatever challenges lie ahead.
This, our first Corporate Citizenship report, is a vehicle to communicate 
with our stakeholders about our purpose, reinforce why we are 
here, focus on our priorities and translate our business plan into 
action. This document provides key information about DTE Energy 
programs and performance across a wide range of topics that are 
important to our company’s success. Our approach to citizenship 
encompasses community involvement, customer focus, respect for employees, environmental stewardship, economic strength and 
sound governance. How we make the journey together matters, and 
we’re excited about where we’re going. 
In 2013, we set ambitious citizenship goals addressing those areas that 
our company, our customers and our communities care strongly 
about. While we have made great progress in accomplishing our 
goals, there is always room to improve. In 2014 and beyond, we will 
build on our successes, identify our gaps, seek out opportunities and 
continue to drive improvements in everything we do. Throughout this 
report, we discuss our 2013 goals, progress against those goals and 
2014 targets. A full summary is available at the end of this report .
Our website includes more detailed information  
on many of the topics covered in this report.  
dtecitizenship.comOVERVIEWP 2 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report CEO Message
  
 CEO Message
When we talk about how DTE Energy powers the 
world in which we live, we mean so much more 
than the services and products we provide.  
Every day I am impressed by the energy that employees bring to work here at DTE. In ways large and small, we are 
making a difference in our world. From our environmental leadership to our philanthropy to the many examples of our commitment to the communities we serve, our employees shine. They are the ones who are driving this company. It is their energy that makes us successful.  
The stories of how our employees shine – how they impact every customer, every neighbor, every person we touch in 
our daily work – are woven throughout this corporate citizenship report. This report is our opportunity to share with 
you where we are in the pursuit of our aspiration to be the best-operated energy company in North America and a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve. 
We recognize we still have challenges. We are not yet where we want to be, but we are taking the steps to get there. 
One of the principles that guides our work is continuous improvement. Wherever we are today, we know we can and will do better. We owe that to our customers and community.
Three major pillars undergird our approach moving forward: supporting the development of strong and responsible 
energy policy in Michigan and nationally; investing in natural gas infrastructure; and leveraging new technologies to enable superior operations and customer service.P 3 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report CEO Message
Long-term energy and climate policy in Michigan and the country, which promise much environmental progress, 
must also deliver reliability, adaptability and affordability. We have already started retiring older and less-efficient 
coal-fired power plants; over the next 10 years, we will transition our aging coal-fired power generation fleet to a 
cleaner, more diverse generation portfolio.
We are also making significant investments in system reliability to lower the frequency of power outages and 
improve how quickly we restore power. Sometimes severe weather events make this priority all the more tangible, 
such as the Christmas week ice storm last year that impacted more than 200,000 of our electric customers. It demonstrated the importance of what we do and the demands placed upon our employees.
Investments in our natural gas infrastructure are also a key part of our long-term strategy. It is paramount that 
we maintain the safety and integrity of our system of underground natural gas pipes through a robust program of inspections, maintenance and upgrades. 
Additionally, we are upgrading our communications systems to better use technology so that we can provide 
excellent customer service. 
We are inextricably linked each day to our customers and our communities by our purpose: We serve with our 
energy, the lifeblood of communities and the engine of progress. This sense of purpose sustains us and inspires 
us, and helps us to bring our best energy, focus and talent to work. The work we do at DTE is vital. The services we provide are fundamental to the functioning of society. 
DTE is committed to all the communities where we live and serve. Our corporate citizenship report serves as a clear 
and transparent look at how we act as a force for growth and prosperity.
We look forward to an open dialogue with you about our corporate citizenship. I invite you to read this report and  
I encourage your feedback via our citizenship@dteenergy.com inbox. 
“ T his report is our opportunity to share 
with you where we are in the pursuit of 
our aspiration to be the best-operated 
energy company in North America and a 
force for growth and prosperity in the  
communities where we live and serve.“
Gerry Anderson
Chairman and CEO
DTE Energy
P 4 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About Us
  
We serve with our energy, the lifeblood of 
communities and the engine of progress
DTE Energy is a publicly traded, investor-owned energy company headquartered in Detroit, Michigan. We are a Fortune 300 
company and provide energy to more than half of Michigan’s residents. DTE Energy is comprised of our electricity and gas 
utility companies, as well as three non-utility business units — Gas Storage and Pipelines, Power and Industrial Projects and 
Energy Trading. Approximately 80 percent of our revenue derives from our regulated electric and gas utility businesses, and 20 percent from our non-utility businesses.About Us
1.2M
gas 
customers  2.1M
electric  
customers
$9.6B
net revenue  9,900
employeesDTE FAST FACTS FOR 2013P 5 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About Us
Power and Industrial Projects
The Power and Industrial Projects business provides 
energy-related products and services nationwide including 
renewable energy, environmental controls and industrial 
energy services.  We operate more than 70 projects in 19 
states, across a range of service areas. S ee our website 
for more details. 
Energy Trading
This business unit consists of energy marketing and trading 
operations, serving primarily utilities, local distribution 
companies and other marketers.DTE Electric
In 2013, we delivered electricity to our 2.1 million customers 
from coal, oil, nuclear, renewable energy and natural  
gas–fired sources. We generate and distribute electric 
services to residential, industrial, institutional and 
commercial customers.
To improve affordability, increase reliability and meet 
changing trends in energy markets, we continue to 
diversify our generation portfolio. 
We operate approximately 30,000 miles of overhead 
distribution lines and 15,700 miles of underground distribution lines. Our service territory encompasses 
7,600 square miles.DTE Gas
Our natural gas utility business serves approximately 
1.2 million residential, commercial and industrial 
customers throughout Michigan (service territory covers 
14,700 square miles). We own distribution, storage and 
transportation facilities, including four gas storage fields, 
19,000 miles of distribution mains and 2,300 miles of 
transmission pipelines that deliver natural gas from 
storage areas to the distribution markets. These facilities 
are important in providing reliable and cost-effective 
service to our customers. We also sell storage services to 
third parties.Gas Storage & Pipelines Power & Industrial Projects Energy Trading DTE Gas DTE ElectricNon-Utility BusinessesState Of Michigan
Regulated Utility BusinessesDTE Energy
OVERHEAD LINE CREWS UPGRADE EQUIPMENT IN REDFORD, MICHIGAN
 GAS STORAGE FIELD IN MICHIGAN
   STEEL PIPELINES AND EQUIPMENTP 6 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About Us
A Major New Investment Brings Economic Benefits and Reliability
As part of our expansion in natural gas storage and pipelines, DTE Energy has partnered with Southwestern Energy 
Company and Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation to develop the Bluestone Pipeline and Gathering System. Bluestone is DTE’s first 
natural gas gathering project outside Michigan and represents an opportunity to transport natural gas between pipelines 
in New York and Pennsylvania. DTE’s investment in the 44.5 mile pipeline generated more than 1,000 jobs during the peak 
of construction. The Bluestone Pipeline provides market access to local Marcellus Shale gas, which ultimately increases 
reliability and lowers cost for gas consumers. It also plays a role in U.S. energy independence and in converting homes in 
the Northeast from home heating oil to natural gas. 
More information about the Bluestone Pipeline project is available on our website .Gas Storage and Pipelines
This business unit controls two natural gas storage fields 
in Michigan plus gathering pipeline systems in Michigan 
and Pennsylvania. The two storage facilities in Michigan 
operate separately from our regulated gas utility assets, 
but are well integrated. DTE Gas provides physical  
operations, maintenance and technical support for the 
storage facilities and for the in-state gathering systems.
We also hold partial ownership of two interstate pipelines 
(Vector and Millennium) serving the Midwest, Ontario and 
Northeast markets.DTE Gas
Gathering
StorageMillennium Pipeline
Corning, NYRamapo,
NYDawn, ON
Joliet, IL
(Chicago)Bluestone
PipelineBluestone
Gathering
Vector Pipeline
Proposed 
Nexus Gas TransmissionDTE GasPipelineBLUESTONE PIPELINE AND GATHERING SYSTEM
NEWLY ARRIVED GAS PIPELINES IN A MICHIGAN STORAGE YARDP 7 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About Us
DTE Electric Service Area
DTE Gas Service AreaOverlapping Gas & Electric Service AreaPower PlantLudington Pumped StorageWind Turbine SitesGas Compressor StationGas Storage FieldDTE Electric and DTE Gas Operations in MichiganP 8 Contents
16
38
34
Steel - Coke
On-Site EnergyWholesale Power & RenewablesBiomass
Gas Pipeline
Midwest Energy Resources Company
321 456710
11
451213
14151718
21222324
2526
27
2830
3132
33
4041
42
43
46
47
4849
50
51
52
535455
5657
585960
6162
63
6435369
3739
ABC
2019
29
448
Michigan
1.  US Steel PCI
2.  Severstal PCI3.  EES Coke Battery4.  Delta I & II (GM)5.  Utility Services of Lansing (GM)6.  Sterling Heights Asm Plant (SHAP) (Chrysler)7.  Sterling Heights Stamping Plant (SHSP or SSP) (Chrysler)8.  Warren Truck Asm Plant (WTAP) (Chrysler)9.  Mack Avenue Engine Plants 1 & 2 (Chrysler)10. Detroit Metro & Metro O&M11. DTE Northwind (GM)12. Ford Rouge Heritage13. Backup Gen14. Westside Gas Producers15. Adrian Energy16. Riverview Gas/Riverview Energy17. Blue Water Renewables18. East China
Indiana
19. Indiana Harbor20. Burns Harbor21. ITP 1 & 2 (Chrysler)Ohio
22. Deﬁance (GM)23. Toledo North Asm Plant (Chrysler)24. Ashtabula - Millennium25. Ford Cleveland26. Lordstown (GM)27. Solvay Specialty Polymers28. CoolCo District Heating & Cooling29. St. Bernard Procter & Gamble30. Bellefontaine Gas Producers31. Pinnacle Gas Producers  Illinois
32. IIT Cogeneration Plant33. Tuscola Equistar Chemicals
Pennsylvania
34. Shenango Coke Battery35. DTE Pittsburgh36. Philadelphia Airport
Wisconsin
37. Stoneman Power Plant38. Midwest Energy Resources Co. (MERC)
New York  
39. Tonawanda (GM)
Kentucky
40. Calvert CityMinnesota
41. St. Paul Northern States Power
New Jersey
42. Fresh Kills
Virginia
43. Eagle Hill Renewables
North Carolina
44. Raleigh Steam Producers45. Wake Gas Producers46. Salem Energy47. Davidson Gas48. Fayetteville Gas Producers49. Iredell Transmission50. Uwharrie Mountain Renewable EnergyMississippi
51.  DTE Petcoke Vicksburg
Alabama
52. Mobile Energy Services Company (MESC)
Florida
53. Boca Raton, LLC District Heating & Cooling
Arizona
54.  Phoenix Gas Producers
Oklahoma
55. Oklahoma Gas Producers
Texas
56. Denton Power
Utah
57. Salt Lake EnergyCalifornia
58. San Diego Rady Childrens Hospital59. Sacramento KLGII60. Potrero Hills Energy61. Sunshine Gas Producers62. Woodland63. Port of Stockton64. Mt. Poso
Gas Pipelines
A. Vector PipelineB. Millennium PipelineC. Bluestone Pipeline and Gathering2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About Us
DTE Energy Non-Utility FacilitiesP 9 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About Us
Values and Priorities
Our values define what we stand for and what we aspire to create at DTE Energy. They have a strong connection to tangible 
business results and shape the way we think about our company and our work on a daily basis. Our values are far more 
than posters on a wall or things that we occasionally refer to or talk about. Our values have real power because we 
routinely live them, act on them — and do so with conviction.
We put the health and safety of people first...and know this responsibility rests with each of us.
We act with integrity and show respect...and understand this defines our company’s character.
We see our work through the eyes of those we serve...and know that our work is a powerful means to serve others.We bring our best energy and focus to our work...and are fully engaged and accountable for results.
We play to win as a team...and put the needs of our enterprise first.
We are passionate about the success of our company...and know that its health and growth generate prosperity.We believe that improvement is our daily responsibility...and know those we serve have the right to expect that from us.
To drive progress toward our aspiration to be the best–operated energy company in North America and a force for 
growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve, we rely on our values and our system of priorities to establish and meet our goals. Meeting our aspiration 
is an ongoing process and we work hard to track our 
progress. Challenges exist in each of our six priorities and measuring the outcomes of our work allows us to 
identify opportunities for growth, areas of improvement 
and successful milestones along the way. We use our Best 
Operated Scorecard to measure four key areas of progress: 
• Emplo yees, which measures our safety and engagement
•  Oper ations, which focuses on our cost-efficiency  
and reliability
•   C ustomers, which tracks satisfaction survey results for 
our gas and electric utilities
•  Shar eholders, which tracks total shareholder returns 
over different time horizons
Excellent
Good
Average
PoorTop-Decile
Cust omer
Satisfaction
Superior &
Sustainable
FinancialPerformanc e
Clear Gr owth &
Value Cr eatio n
StrategyHighlyEngagedEmplo yees
Distinctiv e
Continuous
Impr ovemen t
Capabilit yStrong 
Political &
Regulator y
ContextDTE ENERGY CORPORATE PRIORITIESActing with Integrity
At DTE Energy, an ethical culture, grounded by our values, 
starts with our Board of Directors and extends throughout 
the entire company. The DTE ethics and compliance program 
is designed to promote a culture of integrity and respect.
DTE ENERGY EMPLOYEE WORKING IN THE ELECTRIC OPERATIONS CENTERP 10 ContentsDeliver operating earnings per share growth of 5% to 
6% per year over 2012
Deliver total shareholder return that is better than our 
peer group average
Target leverage within 50% to 52%, and funds from 
operations/debt at 20% to 22%
2013 operating earnings per share is $4.09,  
3.8% growth
2013 total shareholder return was 14.9%; our peer group 
average was 14.2% (as compared to a peer group of  23 similar utilities)
2013 year end: Leverage debt: 49%
Funds from operations/debt calculation: 23%
Achieve 
5% to 6% growth in 2014 and beyond
Achieve 10% to 12% total shareholder return  
in 2014-2018
Target leverage 50% to 52%
Funds from operations/debt ratio 20% to 22%2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About Us
The DTE Energy Way, our code of conduct, is the highest 
level of policy for all of our employees. It guides how we 
behave on the job and helps us resolve issues consistent 
with our values. All employees take our code of conduct 
training biennially. Our code was revised in 2013, and we 
are proud that its effectiveness received an “A” rating 
when independently evaluated by Corpedia®, a subsidiary 
of NYSE Governance Services. Our code of conduct was also ranked in the 97th percentile within the energy and 
utility industry and 98th percentile across all industries  
represented in a database of more than 200 companies. 
In addition, DTE Energy has a Supplier Code of Conduct 
to ensure that our business partners adhere to the same 
standards and align with DTE Energy’s values. 
Our Ethics-in-Action program provides a mechanism for 
employees, vendors, customers, shareholders and the  
general public to report suspected non-compliance or  
work practices that are inconsistent with our values and 
standards, promoting a “speak-up” culture. To ask  
questions, seek guidance or report concerns, individuals 
can make a confidential and, if desired, anonymous report 
through an independent third party by contacting the Ethics-In-Action Helpline. Reports are forwarded to  
DTE Energy for investigation and appropriate action.2013 ECONOMIC GOALS
2013 ECONOMIC RESULTS
2014 ECONOMIC GOALS
The Changing Face of Power Generation
Michigan, and the entire United States, have entered 
a period of profound transformation of the power 
generation sector. Many issues will shape our strategy 
moving forward:
• T he aging of our coal fleet
•  T he emergence of cost-competitive natural gas-fired 
and wind-powered energy generation
• S tate-level clean energy policies
•  EP A regulations (particularly potential greenhouse  
gas regulations)Long-Term Growth:  
Creating an Engine of Progress
At DTE Energy, we strive to create value for our investors. Our shareholders place trust in our business, and in turn, 
we take seriously our responsibility to deliver strong 
financial returns year after year. From 2009 through 
2013, we strengthened our balance sheet and raised 
long-term capital at historically low interest rates. We 
maintain a strong balance sheet and aggressively manage 
costs in the short and long term. Key highlights of our 
improvements include:
•  R efinancing over a third of our long-term debt to take 
advantage of lower interest rates
•  R educing interest expense by over $100 million and  
reducing the average interest rate on our long-term debt from 6.1 percent to 5.1 percent
• Cr edit rating upgrades from all three rating agencies
At the end of 2013, we reported operating income of $720 
million, compared with 2012 operating income of $676 
million. In 2013, we set an ambitious target to increase 
operating income to more than $1 billion by 2018, and we 
are well on our way to meeting that goal. 
 DTE ENERGY CEO GERRY ANDERSON (LEFT) VISITS THE GRATIOT WIND FARMP 11 Contents0.00.20.40.60.81.0~2,600  MW
potential coal 
retirements
~4,400 MW
long-term
unitsRetiring older and less efficient coal plants has already 
started, and additional retirements, power purchase 
agreement expirations and load growth could lead to 
a shortfall in Michigan’s generation capacity needs by 
the mid-2020s. Determining the type of new generation 
capacity that will fill the shortfall must take many factors 
into account, including the projected costs of different 
technologies and fuel sources, their operating characteristics 
and their environmental impact. Today, and for the 
foreseeable future, natural gas and wind are the most 
economical sources of new generation for Michigan.
Advances in technology have made wind more cost-
competitive with new gas-fired generation. However, 
because of its intermittent nature, wind has limited 
“capacity value.” This means that “dispatchable” 
generation — power plants that can operate on  
demand — will also need to be built. This dispatchable 
capacity will come from natural gas plants in the near  
and medium term. 
DTE actively manages assets to account for dynamic 
market and regulatory conditions. In 2013, we sold 
our historic coal-fired Marysville Power Plant to the 
Commercial Development Company. The Marysville plant 
operated from 1922 until 2001 and was released for 
decommissioning in 2011 (see case study on our website). 
Harbor Beach Power Plant was also retired in 2013.  
Coal plants have served the state well over the past half 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About Us
Plant modernization and energy policy will drive 
the transformation of our generation mix over the next decadecentury, but a third of Michigan’s coal fleet is 50 years old. 
Over the next ten years, 75 percent of the fleet will reach that 
age. Some of DTE’s plants will continue to receive investment 
for the long term, but the maintenance and environmental 
compliance costs for coal-fired plants must be considered 
when planning how to best meet our customers’ electricity 
needs going forward. 
Over the past decade, DTE’s clean energy investments 
have been in both environmental controls and renewable 
energy generation projects. Those investments have 
resulted in strong growth in our renewable energy 
contribution in Michigan and a significant reduction in 
our emissions. DTE’s strategy will result in continued 
emissions reductions, including CO2 reductions to meet 
or exceed federal carbon regulations from existing coal 
plants that were proposed in mid-2014. Still, coal-fired 
generation will continue to have an important role in 
allowing us to keep electricity rates affordable for our 
customers, and we are committed to operating our coal fleet 
in a way that fully complies with all regulations and protects 
natural resources (see our website for case studies).Investments and Innovation
DTE Energy continues to invest in projects and initiatives that improve our operations. We dedicate significant 
resources to planning and managing our assets in a way 
that will protect and enhance important environmental, 
social and economic systems. Over the next five years,  
we will invest $5.6 billion in our electric utility generation 
and distribution infrastructure, smart meters and other 
technologies to improve the reliability of our grid. We will 
invest $700 million in environmental controls and $400 
million in renewable energy to mitigate our environmental 
footprint. We will invest another $1.2 billion in our gas 
utility to improve infrastructure and to expand our  
distribution system.
We plan to invest roughly $1 billion to $1.4 billion in our 
non-utility gas pipeline and storage assets over the next 
five years. This will include additional investments in  
Bluestone pipeline and gathering, expansion of the  
Millennium pipeline and new project development such as 
the proposed NEXUS pipeline. 
WIND TURBINES ON FARMS IN ELKTON, MICHIGAN  (HURON COUNTY)
WATER VAPOR IS RELEASED FROM ONE OF TWO NEW STACKS AT THE MONROE POWER PLANT 
AS WORKERS DECONSTRUCT ONE OF THE PLANT’S ORIGINAL STACKS
federal policy
DTE Energy coal-fired fleetstate energy 
policy goals
More information about DTE Energy’s power generation 
portfolio is available on our website.P 12 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About Us
Improvement Is Our Daily Responsibility
Continuous Improvement (CI) is one of six corporate 
priorities central to achieving our goals of serving our 
customers with excellence, lowering costs and creating 
long-term value for our shareholders. We use CI to drive 
effectiveness and efficiency in all our business processes. 
In 2013, we built upon our CI program and improved 
training around the CI skillset — resulting in significant 
cost savings. In particular, through the implementation 
of CI skills at our renewable energy sites, we reduced 
construction and purchasing costs while raising capacity 
factors. Our CI efforts, improved technologies and Federal 
Tax Credits combined to allow us to reduce the renewable 
surcharge on customer bills by 85 percent, saving every 
residential customer $30 per year.
Our CI performance is benchmarked by others inside 
and outside of our industry. In 2013, DTE Energy received 
the honor of “Best Process Improvement Program” 
from the Process Excellence Network (a community 
of professionals, business leaders and executives with 
a global membership of over 78,000). To win this 
prestigious international award, DTE Energy stood out 
among a group of six finalists from dozens of entries in 
this category. This award serves as another reminder that 
the collective efforts of all of our employees can result in 
effective problem solving, higher levels of performance 
and the ability to deliver on our promises to customers.Board Governance
We believe that a successful business is built on strong leadership and well-managed operations. At DTE Energy, our Board 
of Directors is committed to creating long-term value for its shareholders while operating as a responsible corporate 
citizen. Toward that goal, the Board performs a number of functions for the company following sound governance  
practices, including:
• S election of company leaders;
• S etting direction and approving strategy for the company;
• Ov ersight of company management; and
•  R egular oversight of the effectiveness of management policies and decisions, including management’s development and 
execution of the company’s strategies.
We value an independent perspective on the management of our company. Our Board is comprised of 12 independent  
directors plus our chairman and CEO, the only management director. We hold annual director elections where a majority 
vote is required for uncontested appointments. All of the Board committees are composed exclusively of independent 
directors, and we have an independent presiding director, elected by the independent members of the Board of Directors.
To maintain the highest level of integrity, the Board of Directors and its committees hold annual self-assessments and 
executive officers and directors are subject to robust stock ownership requirements. We uphold policies applicable to 
all company directors, officers and employees that ensure that their economic interests are aligned with those of the 
shareholders. Our Board membership reflects a diversity of experience, gender, race, ethnicity and age. Directors also 
possess the highest personal and professional ethics, integrity and values.
WIND TURBINE BLADE IS PREPARED FOR INSTALLATION
ONE OF DTE’S WIND PARKS IN MICHIGAN’S THUMB REGION  
 Promoting Fair, Balanced 
Energy Policy
Regulated utilities make up a majority of our business, 
and thus our success depends upon a stable, balanced 
regulatory and political construct. Our goal is to promote 
long-term energy policy that is based on the pillars of 
reliability, adaptability and affordability. As a company, 
we seek to be a force for growth in the communities 
where we live and serve — and part of that aspiration is 
to work collaboratively to promote policy solutions that 
benefit the overall well-being of our state and our state’s 
residents, businesses and institutions.P 13 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About Us
We support responsible regulation that enables us to 
power Michigan’s energy future with cleaner generation 
and state-of-the-art reliability and services. The Michigan 
Public Service Commission regulates gas and electric 
rates for our customers, while retail electric suppliers 
charge wholesale market-based rates for roughly 10 
percent of the electric sales in the service territories of 
DTE Energy. Wholesale market prices have repeatedly 
shown themselves to be highly volatile. Energy legislation 
enacted by the State of Michigan in 2008 established 
the 10 percent limit. While there are efforts underway to 
introduce greater deregulation in the state, we believe 
that such an action would threaten system reliability 
and invite price volatility in Michigan’s electric market. 
Responsible regulation has been the cornerstone for 
reliable, safe, affordable electricity in Michigan for 
generations — and the economic growth and job creation 
that comes with that. Deregulation as it has been implemented in other parts of the country over the past 15 
years has not resulted in lower rates for customers, and has 
created a shortage of generating capacity in some states.
While much of the focus on energy policy in Michigan is 
on electric rates, a Gas Customer Choice program allows 
customers to voluntarily purchase their natural gas from 
alternative gas suppliers at market rates that are not 
regulated by the Michigan Public Service Commission.  
DTE Gas administers billing services and responds to 
leaks and emergencies in DTE’s gas service area, even 
if a customer has an alternative supplier.  DTE works to 
control costs for our customers and hold our own rates 
stable.  In the interest of transparency around natural gas rates, DTE Energy was instrumental in getting the 
Michigan Public Service Commission to issue an order 
in early 2014 calling for the creation of a gas choice 
price comparison website that will provide the tools and 
resources for our customers to make informed decisions 
regarding their natural gas provider. • In terstate Natural Gas Association of America 
• National As sociation of Manufacturers 
• National Ener gy and Utility Affordability Coalition 
• Nucle ar Energy Institute 
• Nucle ar Waste Strategy Coalition 
• U .S. Chamber of Commerce
Trade organizations that we participate in at the state and 
local level include:
• De troit Regional Chamber
• Mar cellus Shale Coalition
• Michigan Chamber o f Commerce
• Michigan Manuf acturers Association
Political Action Committee
We believe that participation in the political and public policy arenas, when conducted in a legal manner, is an 
important and appropriate role for companies in open 
societies. In the United States, there are important federal 
and state laws that govern this participation.
The DTE Energy Political Action Committee (PAC) was 
formed in 1977 as a voluntary, non-partisan committee to 
promote and support responsible government through 
contributions to candidates for election to federal, state 
and local offices. It is designed to provide DTE Energy 
employees with an effective, convenient way to make 
financial contributions to candidates and to participate in 
the democratic process. The PAC is guided by a Steering 
Committee made up of employees from around the company.DTE Energy has been deeply involved in the public process established by the Michigan governor’s administration 
to gather feedback on Michigan’s energy policy. The 
2008 comprehensive legislation established a renewable 
energy standard that will be achieved in 2015, and we are 
engaging with government leaders and other stakeholders 
to ensure that the next phase of energy policy continues 
to move the state toward a prosperous and cleaner future. 
In 2013, about 9.6 percent of the electricity we sold was 
provided by renewable resources, and with the planned 
addition of new wind capacity in 2014-2015, we are well 
positioned to meet the 2015 goal.
We participate in a number of Michigan organizations that 
engage with elected officials and policymakers on energy and related issues, including:
• T he Alliance for Michigan Power
• Michigan Job s and Energy Coalition
• D TE Shareholders United
• T he Coalition to Keep Michigan Warm
We also are members of local and national industry  associations where the company holds positions on 
their boards and participates on projects or committees. 
We work to align trade association positions with DTE 
Energy’s position and we participate in their advocacy to 
policymakers to the extent possible. Trade organizations 
that we participate in at the federal level include:
• Americ an Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity 
• Americ an Gas Association 
• C enter on Executive Compensation 
• C orporate Health Care Coalition (did not rejoin in 2014) 
• E dison Electric Institute
• Electric P ower Research Institute
• HR (Human R esources) Policy Association Information about DTE Energy PAC contributions can be 
obtained via the Federal Election Commission website and the 
Michigan Secretary of State’s Bureau of Elections website.P 14 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Community
  
Our work is a powerful means to serve others
The very nature of our business as an energy utility company finds us deeply involved with the community. We connect with 
people’s lives on a continual basis, providing critical support for health, quality of life, comfort and convenience.
Our efforts in the communities where we operate aim to improve the lives of our neighbors, our customers and our 
employees. As a Michigan–based company with the majority of our operations in the state, our involvement and outreach 
is directed primarily to our principal operating areas. Because of the difficult economic circumstances in recent years, DTE 
Energy’s role as a force for economic growth is more important than ever.
Our Corporate Affairs group serves as DTE Energy’s primary point of contact with elected and appointed officials, key  
community stakeholder organizations and local nonprofit groups. While we have been actively involved with communities 
throughout our company’s history, in 2013, we launched an initiative to increase our already strong community engagement, 
citizenship and communication across our service territory. This initiative resulted in direct support and sponsorship of more 
than 300 civic and community events statewide.
We purposefully promote engagement between DTE’s senior leadership and community organizations. This unique initiative 
allows our leaders to see our work through the eyes of those 
we serve. In 2013, approximately 120 DTE leaders were paired 
with 140 community organizations statewide. As a result of 
the Directors Outreach Program, DTE Energy participants have received awards from community partners, have been 
asked to serve on boards and special committees, and have 
formed valuable partnerships. Community
JERRY NORCIA (RIGHT), PRESIDENT & COO - DTE ELECTRIC/GAS STORAGE & PIPELINE, AT 
DIRECTORS OUTREACH PROGRAM EVENTP 15 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Community  
EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING
Volunteerism is integrated into the workplace culture and corporate fabric of DTE Energy.  In 2013, more than 1,450 
employees volunteered their time with over 75 nonprofit organizations, community initiatives and local events, 
coordinated by our DTE Care Corps. These volunteer activities provide food and clothing, promote public health, improve 
the environment and address educational needs. By supporting and promoting the volunteer work of our employees, we 
strengthen relationships with our neighbors and customers and demonstrate an ongoing commitment to our local partners. 
An example of one of the many DTE Care Corps successes is DTE Cares Day, a program launched in 2013. 
DTE Cares Day
To further our dedication to service, DTE Energy hosted its inaugural DTE Cares Day in October 2013. The company-wide day of community service attracted more than 400 employee volunteers. This event will be held on an annual basis and 
each year we look to set increasingly ambitious goals for participation. 
DTE Cares Day provided more than 3,000 hours of service; our employees spent the day helping several nonprofit organizations 
at more than a dozen sites throughout Ann Arbor, Metro Detroit, Western Michigan, Northern Michigan and Washington, D.C.
Volunteers worked with organizations that address a variety of social issues including low-income youth leadership, affordable 
housing, domestic violence and food security. In total, DTE Energy employees accomplished the following:
Please see our website for more information about community 
outreach and volunteering activities.cleaned and beautified the facilities of 6 nonprofit 
organizationspacked and delivered 784  bags of groceries assisted in building 1 new home and helped restore 
2 homes in partnership with Habitat for Humanity
picked 10,000  pounds of fruits and vegetablesInvest in Michigan with a $625 million cumulative  
increase in Michigan spending from 2011
Contribute $1.6 million to United Way (employees and 
retirees) 2014 campaign
Achieved $809 million cumulative increase in  
Michigan spending since 2011
Employees and retirees pledged $1,691,000 to United 
Way in 2013 campaign (for 2014)
Invest in Michigan with a $1B  cumulative  
increase in Michigan spending from 2011-2015
Goal for 2014 pledges to United Way has not yet  
been established2013 COMMUNITY GOALS
2013 COMMUNITY RESULTS
2014 COMMUNITY GOALS
DTE VOLUNTEERS PACK BOXES OF FOOD AT FOCUS: HOPE IN DETROIT
DTE VOLUNTEERS LEND A HAND AT EVERY WOMAN’S PLACE FACILITY IN MUSKEGON, MICHIGANP 16 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Community
DTE Energy as a Force for Growth and Prosperity in Michigan
Pure Michigan Business Connect
DTE Energy is one of the original seven leaders in Pure 
Michigan Business Connect, an $8 billion public-private 
initiative established in 2011 to increase business with 
Michigan suppliers throughout the state. In May 2013, we 
pledged to shift an incremental $1 billion in spending from 
businesses located outside of Michigan, and in some cases 
the United States, to Michigan-based suppliers by 2015. 
This is significantly higher than the company’s original 
target of $750 million. 
From 2011 through 2013, DTE increased spending to  
more than $800 million with Michigan-based companies, 
exceeding our target by about 30 percent. In support 
of DTE’s commitment to our hometown, spending with 
Detroit-based companies rose to $140 million last year, 
compared with $122 million in 2012.
Expanding Supplier Opportunities for 
Diverse Businesses
DTE Energy supports local suppliers and we particularly 
recognize the importance of cultivating business 
relationships with a diverse group of suppliers. Currently, 
DTE Energy works with more than 200 minority- and 
women-owned businesses. In 2013, we spent more than 
$302 million with certified minority- and women-owned 
suppliers, representing nearly 18 percent of our total 
spend. More than 90 percent of those dollars were spent 
in Michigan, strengthening DTE Energy’s commitment 
to support businesses in the state. Our goal is to spend 
$300 million with certified minority- and women-owned 
businesses in 2014.
In 2013, we were named “Corporation of the Year – 
Consumer Products” for the fourth year in a row by the Michigan Minority Supplier Diversity Council. Revitalizing Our Headquarters Neighborhood  
Our aspiration is to be a force for growth and prosperity 
in the communities where we live and serve, and that 
begins in our own backyard. In DTE Energy’s headquarters 
neighborhood, we are restoring a long vacant Art Deco 
building for office space and creating reasons for people 
to be outside, with food trucks, a farmers market and bike sharing. In the coming years we will continue to collaborate 
with neighbors and partners to help create a vibrant, dense, 
walkable mixed-use urban downtown that will drive regional 
economic growth and create value for the company.9,900  
employees12,000  
retirees$7B  
capital  
investments  
[2013-2017]$463M  
taxes paid  
[2013 federal, 
state, payroll and property]$445M  
dividends paid  
[2013]
In 2013, the City of Detroit declared the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history. Detroit has suffered hard economic 
realities over the last several decades, impacting its reputation. DTE Energy remains a strong corporate citizen, anchored 
firmly in the downtown core of the city. We believe that despite the recent bankruptcy announcement, optimism about the 
future of Detroit is higher now than at any time in the last 20 years. HOMETOWN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
VACANT ART DECO BUILDING, PRIOR TO RENOVATIONSP 17 Contents 
We have a long tradition of matching employee gifts to 
worthwhile institutions and providing grants in honor  
of major employee volunteer actions. In 2013, the 
Foundation provided more than $10 million in grants and 
matched nearly $350,000 in employee donations. The 
DTE Energy Foundation is looking forward to investing  
$11 million in the community through 2014.
Our youth employment program is one of many important 
initiatives for the Foundation. We contribute $1 million 
annually to help provide jobs for young people from 
Detroit and other Michigan communities. The Foundation 
partners with Grow Detroit’s Young Talent program to 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Community  
Corporate and Foundation 
Giving
At DTE Energy, we invest in our communities and honor 
our responsibility to dedicate time, effort and resources 
to the places we serve. The DTE Energy Foundation, the 
charitable arm of DTE Energy, is integral to fulfilling 
this mission. In our current economic climate, we have 
carefully managed our resources in an effort to maintain 
core, structural funding to support key community 
institutions as well as future-oriented educational, 
environmental, diversity and development initiatives.fund its summer jobs program. The Foundation works with 
30 community partners to place teens and young adults in 
jobs that run for six weeks. 
In addition to funding summer jobs, the Foundation works 
with the City of Detroit to provide year-round, part-time 
jobs at City of Detroit recreation centers. The Foundation 
has made a $1 million commitment as part of a public-private 
partnership to support the city’s recreation centers and the families that they serve. The program represents an 
important initiative to lift young people from targeted 
neighborhoods into secure jobs and to offer mentoring, 
tutoring and other support services to help them succeed.
One of our employee matching efforts is with the United 
Way organization. DTE Energy conducts a campaign each 
fall to solicit pledges from our employees and retirees in 
support of 36 United Ways across Michigan, the Pittsburgh 
area, and Superior, Wisconsin. In 2013, 50 percent of our 
employees participated, including our union-represented 
employees who partner with the AFL -CIO Labor Council 
in their community support. Employees and retirees 
pledged $
1,691,000  to the campaign and the DTE Energy 
Foundation added a $750,000 gift, bringing the total 
amount raised to more than $2.4 million. Upgrading Detroit’s Electrical and Lighting System  
We have been working hard in Detroit to completely 
remake the city’s street lights.  As part of this three-year 
project, we are advising the city on a plan to fix or replace 
500 street lights each week.  In addition, DTE will soon 
begin the task of improving electric reliability to Detroit 
schools and major institutions by converting existing 
Public Lighting Department (PLD) customers to DTE’s 
system. This transition will occur over the next three to 
five years. Ultimately, we help current PLD customers 
manage energy and save money as DTE customers.
DTE LINEMAN WORKS ON UTILITY POLE IN NORTHVILLE, MICHIGAN
YOUTH EMPLOYMENT ORIENTATION AT DTE ENERGY HEADQUARTERSDTE Energy Foundation Grants by Category, 2013
6%  L eadership
14%  C ultural Institution
21%  E ducation
7%  En vironment
22%  Human Needs
12% Development
7%  Div ersity
11%  OtherIn 2013, the DTE Energy Foundation provided 
more than $10 million  in grants.  
DTE Energy donated $5 million to The 
Heat and Warmth Fund (THAW) and the Michigan Community Action Agency on Aging (MCAAA) to help vulnerable Michigan families stay warm. The contribution was DTE’s response to the record-setting frigid temperatures this past winter. THAW received $4 million and MCAAA received $1 million. The two organizations matched DTE’s donation with public resources and other funds, ultimately benefiting up to 10,000 households.P 18 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Customers
  
We see our work through the eyes of those we serve
Our goal is to provide excellent service and delight our customers. Both our electric and gas utilities are in the top 25 
percent of their peers in the J.D. Power residential customer satisfaction rankings – and we aim to increase that ranking 
over the next few years. To improve customer service, we’re making significant investments in system reliability and process 
improvements. In addition to the J.D. Power ranking, we demonstrate success by the fact that customer complaints to the 
Michigan Public Service Commission have declined by more than 60 percent since 2006.Customers
We strive to delight our customers with a  
+1 cu stomer experience,  
an in teraction with DTE that exceeds expectations. Customer focus is a key priority at DTE Energy.  
We know many factors affect customer satisfaction and 
we continually improve our programs to provide those +1 
experiences. Michigan’s families and businesses deserve 
the best experience. Our goal is to be ranked No. 1 in 
customer satisfaction by 2017.
DTE C ALL  C ENTERP 19 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Customers  
Midwest Electric Utility
Midwest Gas Utility
Our mobile applications  
were recognized with a
#1 ranking  
in customer satisfaction.J.D. POWER RESIDENTIAL SATISFACTION RANK VS. MIDWEST PEERS
DTE Electric 2012
DTE Electric 2013
2017 GoalDTE Gas 2012
DTE Gas 2013
2017 Goal
Midw est Utility Companie s Midw est Utility Companie sCustomer Satisf actionCustomer Satisf action
DTE Electric 2012
DTE Electric 2013
2017 GoalDTE Gas 2012
DTE Gas 2013
2017 Goal
Midw est Utility Companie s Midw est Utility Companie sCustomer Satisf actionCustomer Satisf actionJ.D. Power has been capturing and analyzing the voice of the customer across more than a dozen industries globally, including 
utilities, for more than 45 years.
DTE goal
1st place 
in 2017    
 P 20 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Customers  
 
We are well on our way to installing state-of-the-art metering technology for all of our 
residential and commercial electric and gas customers. This is part of DTE Energy’s efforts to 
upgrade our system so we can offer our customers new capabilities and  innovative service.   
The new meters use secure, low-frequency radio transmissions to send usage data without 
the need for a manual meter reading. Customers with advanced meters can go online to view 
their personal electricity usage, down to the day and hour, through my.dteenergy.com.  
Advanced metering will allow us to do much more than eliminate in-person meter reading.  
Because the advanced meters can be automatically and remotely read in real-time, we c  
an offer an energy efficiency mobile application for monitoring and reducing power  use (the first such application in the country). We are also able to detect interruptions  
and restore power quickly and efficiently during an outage. The automated meters facilitate communications with customers, allowing us to provide up-to-date information  
to customers on the status of their repairs. With real-time technology, power may be restored without the customer even knowing there was a problem. In 2013, more than 700,000 DTE Energy customers benefited from this integration.IMPROVING SERVICE AND RESPONSIVENESS
  “I Can Help!” is a grassroots approach to customer service that recognizes the 
power and responsibility of DTE Energy employees. When a customer comes to 
any DTE employee with a problem or question, that employee can immediately 
respond by referring the customer’s issue to the “I Can Help!” program. The 
program is designed to enable employees to assist customers wherever they are 
– a neighborhood event, a church event or a casual conversation. An “I Can Help” 
team member follows through completely to resolution.  
  The Customer Service Contact Center is changing the way it does business with 
customers. Instead of focusing on what makes doing business easy for DTE, we have taken an “outside-in” approach. By studying how our customers interact with 
us, we were able to simplify many of our key transactions, and to develop an easy, 
stress-free way for customers to report and check the status of outages using a 
mobile application. As our customers evolve, so do we. 
  D TE Energy has added a more convenient way for customers to pay their utility 
bills thanks to new self-service payment kiosks. In 2013, we operated four in the city of Detroit — three in DTE Customer Offices and one in the downtown  
Detroit headquarters lobby. The first kiosk inside a retail location – a Rite Aid store in Pontiac, Michigan – was unveiled in February 2014. By late 2015, DTE plans to 
install kiosks in 19 additional Rite Aid stores.We are focused on  
improving customers’ 
experience with  
DTE Energy. 
A few examples of our efforts 
are highlighted below:
Advanced meters installed through 2013  
1,049,806  
Residential electric
201,605
Residential gas
93,282
Commercial electric
10,282
Commercial gas   43% 
of customers
21% 
of customers
36% 
of customers
13% 
of customers
Learn more about our new mobile apps
on our websiteP 21 ContentsOur corporate priority on customer satisfaction means we 
continually work to find ways to deliver more value to the 
people we serve. As technologies advance, our customers 
expect us to innovate and meet or exceed their needs. 
That’s why we’re increasingly using technology to give 
customers better information about their power outages 
and restoration work.
Two years ago, we launched an initiative focused on 
proactively providing customers with information about 
their power outages. When customers call to report 
an outage, we call them back to share updated outage 
restoration estimates received from our field employees. 
Once power is restored, we call them back to let them 
know the cause of the outage, number of customers affected, outage location and restoration time. 
The automated calls allow customers to leave a message 
or speak to a company representative. This program is 
supported by a state-of-the-art intelligent callback system 
capable of sending thousands of calls an hour. Last year, 
we placed more than 200,000 proactive outbound calls in 
a single storm.
In 2012, we introduced our outage mobile app to provide 
customers a way to report outages and downed power lines on the go. Several upgrades later, customers can also 
use the app to make payments, to receive notifications 
and estimated repair times and to ask us to let them know 
that their power has been restored. Our ongoing electric 
reliability improvement upgrades should enable us to 
provide even more accurate outage estimates.   CUSTOMER COMMUNICATION DURING POWER OUTAGES2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Customers  
Download our mobile appIncrease the electric residential Customer Satisfaction 
Index to 7 4 percent 
Reliability measured as length of customer interruptions 
(in minutes) divided by number of customers, or  “Duration Index.”  Target:  419 minutes
Establish Low-Income Self-Sufficiency Plan and enroll 
20,000 customers
Achieved 7 4 percent for electric residential Customer 
Satisfaction Index 
Duration Index of 583 minutesEnrolled 28,947 customers in Low-Income  
Self-Sufficiency Plan
Improve our customer satisfaction among our peers  
in the J.D. Power Customer Satisfaction Survey  on our path to achieving top ranking among our peers by 
2017
Duration Index of 342  minutes
Enroll 50,000 customers in Low-Income Self-Suffi-
ciency Plan during 2014-2015 winter heating season2013 CUSTOMER GOALS
2013 CUSTOMER RESULTS
2014 CUSTOMER GOALS
Note on Customer Satisfaction Goals: Based on previous year customer satisfaction metrics, 
we established a 2013 Customer Satisfaction Index goal of 74 percent for our electric residential customers. By year end 2013, we had achieved our target of 74 percent among residential customers but fell short of our target of 78 percent among business customers. During 2013, we re-evaluated our metrics and methodology for measuring customer satisfaction and chose to use J.D. Power and Associates’(JDPA) Customer Satisfaction Index as the preferred approach to measuring customer satisfaction going forward. As a result of this change in metric methodology, we have a new baseline and measurement system for 2014 not directly comparable to our 2013 metrics. The JDPA metrics indicated that we had reached the top quartile in customer satisfaction (for both electric and gas) at the end of 2013 and this will continue to be our metric for setting goals in 2014 and beyond.  P 22 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Customers  
Keeping Energy Affordable    
At DTE Energy, we believe that improvement is our daily responsibility and we rely on the 
use of continuous improvement principles and tools, streamlined processes and improved 
technologies to provide low-cost reliable energy to our customers. In 2014, residential 
electric customers will see rate decreases of 6 percent to 7 percent, which translates to 
an annual savings of about $80 a year. Similarly, business customer rates will decline by 
5.5 percent to 7.4 percent, depending on their level of service. These rate decreases are 
possible due to lower fuel supply costs and ongoing efforts to reduce the company’s  
cost structure. 
To keep natural gas rates low and relatively stable, DTE Gas deploys a strategy that calls 
for buying natural gas far in advance of the winter and then storing significant quantities 
of gas underground during the summer months when demand is low. Also, we lock in 
low natural gas prices each month for a period of two years before the actual delivery to 
customers. This kind of advanced planning helps to temper rates for gas customers.
Over the past five years, DTE has led its peer group in the control of operating costs. Between 
2005 and 2012, we took aggressive action to control costs, resulting in no increase in our 
operating costs over that period. Our position now enables us to develop a strategy for 
lowering customer rates. Reliable Energy Supply: 
Those We Serve Have The Right To 
Expect It
Due in part to increased frequency and severity of extreme 
weather events, the number and duration of power outages 
increased for our customers in 2013. DTE Energy is actively 
addressing reliability issues with plans to invest $1.5 
billion in electric reliability improvements. Our reliability 
investment is focused on upgrading our distribution 
system to reduce the number of outages and to reduce 
outage restoration time. This includes investment in 
rebuilding and modernizing electric equipment, adding 
equipment to help isolate and re-route power, applying 
system strengthening solutions to reduce the impact 
of severe weather and adding equipment to identify 
damaged lines more quickly. 
In 2013, through our Infrastructure Upgrade Program, we 
improved  more than 130 electric distribution circuits.  We 
are continuing to improve circuits through 2014 and plan 
to ultimately upgrade more than 1,800 circuits. These 
1,800 circuit upgrades will improve service for more than 
1.5 million DTE Energy customers. 
DTE ENERGY LINEMEN HARD AT WORKJan 2014:
6.5% decrease   
in electric residential  
rates, or an average of  
$80 per year  average DTE  
electric bill:
12% lower than 
U.S. averageour goal:  
2018 rates  
no higher  
than 2013P 23 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Customers   
ASSISTING OUR CUSTOMERS IN NEED Gatekeeper Program  
for Senior Citizens
The Gatekeeper Program is a statewide effort by the 
Michigan Office of Services to the Aging (OSA) to help 
identify senior citizens who may need help and may not 
be able to get it for themselves. Since 2009, DTE Energy 
employees have participated in the Gatekeeper Program 
to help identify at-risk senior citizens who need assistance 
beyond their utility service, such as housekeeping service, 
meal preparation, personal care and more. DTE employees 
referred 227 at-risk seniors to the Michigan OSA in 2013 
and more than 860 since 2009.
CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE DAY FOR SENIORS AT SALEM MEMORIAL LUTHERAN CHURCH IN DETROITIn 2013, DTE Energy launched an innovative program called the Low-Income Self-Sufficiency Plan to help customers bridge the gap between extreme-weather 
utility bills and reduced government aid. This proactive, year-round assistance 
program helps customers budget for their energy payments and avoid service 
interruptions during hard times.
While unemployment rates have improved in Michigan, there are still many 
people struggling to pay their bills. Roughly 20 percent of Michigan residents live 
below the poverty line, and we currently have about 400,000 customers who 
need energy assistance. However, government funding for low-income customer 
assistance has been declining. 
Under DTE’s assistance program, customers who enroll are required to pay a 
fixed amount every month based on income. Their arrears are frozen and reduced 
quarterly with successful payment compliance.  Another benefit of the program 
is access to DTE Energy’s energy efficiency  programs.  Homes receive energy 
audits, weatherization, compact fluorescent bulbs and other energy saving 
assistance.  Customers can obtain assistance for an entire year with one call, and 
they can access this help without having to wait until they reach a financial crisis 
point. The improved process also helps DTE avoid the cost of managing repeated 
phone calls, disconnects and service restorations.
DTE Energy offers a number of other programs as well, including Budgetwise 
Billing, intended to help customers pay their utility bill.28,947
customers  
enrolled in 2013P 24 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Employees 
  
 Employees
We play to win as a team
We recognize that the strength of our company resides in our people. Fostering a strong culture of employee engagement is 
one of DTE Energy’s six priorities and an important foundation for our corporate citizenship efforts. As of the end of 2013, 
we employed close to 10,000 people, of whom 4,900 are represented by unions. Our commitment to respect each other 
and create an inclusive environment goes beyond just race and gender to appreciating and valuing each other and our 
diverse backgrounds and life experiences. We believe that a diverse workforce with a healthy mix of educational experiences, 
backgrounds, ages, cultures, religions, sexual orientation, 
abilities and personal interests expands our base of  
knowledge, skills and cross-cultural understanding. This,  
in turn, helps us better connect with our customers and  
makes us a better company. 
FORMER CO-OP STUDENT MICHELLE HANLON IS SUPERVISOR OF PLANT OPERATIONSAt the core, our 9,900  employees drive 
this company. They allow us to live our 
purpose and be a force for growth.P 25 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Employees 
Achieve Employee Engagement Gallup GrandMean Score 
of 4.16
Improve employee safety with a total Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration (OSHA) Recordable Rate of 1.03
Administer the National Safety Council Barometer Survey 
for major business units in 2013 and establish a 2014  leading indicator incentive plan metric
GrandMean = 4.18
OSHA Recordable Rate = 0.81 (20% better than target)Surveyed major business units and established a 2013 
baseline: 91% average
GrandMean = 
4.23
OSHA Recordable Rate = 0.75 
Improve safety as measured by the National Safety 
Council Barometer Survey to 95% average2013 EMPLOYEE GOALS
2013 EMPLOYEE RESULTS
2014 EMPLOYEE GOALS
Notes: “GrandMean” is an aggregated metric indicating level of employee  
engagement, as determined through the Gallup survey.
The OSHA Recordable Rate is a calculation of injuries and illnesses against all DTE 
employee hours worked.
The National Safety Council is a nonprofit organization whose mission is to save 
lives by preventing injuries and deaths at work, in homes and communities, and on 
the road through leadership, research, education and advocacy. Gallup Great Workplace Recognition
Gallup is a global research and polling company that helps private and public sector organizations boost organic growth 
through measurement tools, strategic advice and education.
HIGHL Y ENGAGED EMPLOYEES: PRIORITY AND PROGRESS
In 2013, we earned the highest engagement scores in our company’s history, moving  
from the 78th to the 85th percentile in Gallup’s Overall Company database. This database represents nearly 7.5 million responses for 965,000 workgroups in approximately 400 
companies globally. It was our seventh consecutive year of improved Gallup scores. 
DTE Energy earned Gallup’s Great Workplace Award in both 2013 and 2014. It recognizes 
companies “for their extraordinary ability to create an engaged workplace culture.” 
We were the first energy company selected in the history of the award.DTE Energy Gallup GrandMean
(Based on a scale of 1-5)
4.18
06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Spring 
13 Fall 
13 Target 
14 3.483.603.753.893.933.984.084.174.204.23
#69BAA3
R 105 
G 186B 164
C 59
M 5.7Y 43K 0#037078
R 3
G  113 B  120
C 88.67
M 39.84Y 46.88K 13.67#00A7A3
R 0
G 167 B 163
C  84
M 8.3Y 42K 0 P 26 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Employees 
Diversity at DTE
Employing a diverse workforce and creating an inclusive workplace are values we hold, 
and they are essential to our business success and our ability to recruit and retain our 
workforce. In 2013, DTE Energy received several honors for our work in promoting and 
valuing diversity in the workplace.2013 “Best of the Best”  
Black EOE Journal2013 “Best of the Best”  
Hispanic Network Magazine2013 “Best of the Best”  
Professional Woman’s Magazine
Gender Diversity as a Percent of Workforce (Dec 31, 2013)
72.9%  White
20.2%  B lack or African American
2.7%  Hispanic/Latino
2.9%  Asian
0.5% Americ an Indian or Alaskan Native
0.0% Nativ e Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
0.4%  T wo or More Races
0.2%  Unspecified
Ethnic Diversity as a Percent of Workforce (Dec 31, 2013)25.1%  
female74.9%  
maleDTE ENERGY WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS DTE ENERGY LEADERSHIP DEMOGRAPHICS
Board of Directors
Executive Committee
Senior Leadership Team
33  Male 9 Female 10 Male 10 Male
 3 Minorities
 2 Minorities
 8 Minorities 2 Female 3 FemaleP 27 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Employees 
Workforce Planning and  
Talent Development
About one-third of our workforce is projected to leave the company over the next five to 
ten years, primarily due to retirement. Many of these workers are in our operations and 
skilled trades — jobs that we count on to build, run and maintain our plants, distribution 
system, pipelines and other critical infrastructure.  
To manage this challenge, we are collaborating with industry peers, the educational 
community, governmental agencies and diversity organizations to ensure that workforce 
development is top of mind, and qualified and diverse candidates are ready to assume 
these roles when the time is right. Some of our outreach efforts include partnering 
with community colleges to help build curricula, offering student co-op and internship 
programs, strategic recruitment and hiring, and “boot camp” training with a special focus 
on preparing military veterans for job opportunities.
 
Employees clearly state in Gallup and other surveys that having the right tools 
for the job is critical to their success. Feedback from our frontline employees 
has reinforced that the age, condition and appearance of our fleet needed to be  
improved. In response to this need, and to manage operational costs, the  
company is in the process of investing a significant amount of money over a  
five-year period to modernize our DTE fleet of vehicles and equipment. This 
includes expanding the use of alternatively fueled vehicles.Providing Employees with the Tools They Need
See our website for more information about this and other DTE Energy efforts to  
improve employees’ workplaces and access to the tools they need to do their best.Workplace Transformation Initiative
Safe and productive work environments contribute to the overall health and satisfaction of employees. DTE Energy is improving working conditions company-wide through our Workplace 
Transformation Initiative (WTI). WTI adheres to five core focus areas for all of its projects: 
  Fix the b asics: provide a healthy, safe and comfortable environment
  F ocus on the big bang: identify and modernize the high-impact areas
    S upport work: make intentional changes to better support the flow of work and  
work processes
  R emove clutter, clean it up and maintain it well
  C elebrate our purpose and values1
2
3
4
5
DTE ENERGY HEADQUARTERS OFFICE SPACE BEFORE RENOVATIONS
 DTE ENERGY HEADQUARTERS OFFICE SPACE AFTER RENOVATIONSIn addition, DTE annually conducts a talent planning process to ensure a diverse pool 
of high potential employees and future leaders for all levels are identified and being 
developed for new and greater responsibilities in the future. This process is supported 
by investment in formal development programs for front-line, mid-level and executive 
leadership positions and augmented with exposure to projects and rotational assignments 
to further hone employee skills. From recruitment to selection to development to 
performance management, all of our programs link directly to our ENERGY Model for 
leaders — a set of core competencies that each employee is required to exhibit to be 
successful on the job.P 28 ContentsIn November 2013, we launched the DTE Energy Safety Playbook, a standardized set of 
safety processes to follow and tools to help us reach and sustain top safety performance.  
The Monroe Power Plant 
was the first DTE Energy site 
to go through a full safety 
assessment in November  
2013. More information on  
this facility’s experience is 
available on our website . 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Employees 
Putting the Health and Safety  
of People First
We believe that every employee should come to work knowing that they will go home to their family safe and healthy at the end of the day. Our target is zero injuries. As we work 
toward this target, we have set an ambitious goal to reach top decile safety performance 
by 2015. Historically, our safety performance improved from 2004 to 2008, as measured 
by our Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recordable injury rate. But 
then our safety performance plateaued until 2012, when we launched a concerted effort to 
make a step change improvement in our safety performance. A focus on safety and the use 
of robust safety assessments enabled DTE to achieve its best safety performance yet, with  
an OSHA recordable rate of 0.81 in 2013.Engaging Our Workforce for Health and Wellness
Energize Your Life (EYL) is our company-wide platform for promoting health awareness and the benefits of an active lifestyle. The program’s purpose is to “empower all individuals 
to live with high energy, good health and passion for life.” The program includes a multitude 
of online resources aimed at helping employees, retirees and family members take steps 
to improve their health, be aware of those risk factors they can control and follow through 
with recommended preventive screenings.
Our wellness initiatives include providing incentives for healthy lifestyle choices, ensuring 
access to educational resources for nutrition and health, improving food offerings in 
our corporate cafeterias and much more. See our website for more information on EYL 
resources and activities.
Through a collaboration of the EYL and Workplace Transformation Initiative 
teams, the company is providing workplace wellness tools and equipment 
to help employees be physically active within their work environment. By 
incorporating some key wellness elements, we can turn a traditional sedentary 
workspace into a more physically active workspace — one that encourages more movement, energy and engagement. For example:
•  Walkstations combine a height-adjustable work surface with an exclusively engineered, low-speed treadmill, allowing employees to walk comfortably 
while doing the work normally done while seated at a desk. 
•  Inflatable ball chairs, which strengthen core muscles while promoting  
movement, are being placed in numerous conference rooms and spaces devoted to creative thinking. 
•  Sit-to-stand desks include easily adjustable height settings, providing the 
option to sit or stand while working at your desk.Creating Healthy Work Spaces
SAFETY CHECK AT A DTE FACILITYOccupational Safety and Health Administration Recordable Injury Rate
*The rate is a calculation of injuries and illnesses against all DTE employee hours worked.2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 20141.391.291.191.24
0.81Target 
0.751.03
(targe t)P 29 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Employees 
In July 2012, the team at Mt. Poso, a former coal 
plant converted to burn woody biomass, created its 
Safety Wall of Accountability and Commitment as 
a way to energize plant personnel around safety. 
Employees at the Bakersfield, California, facility 
were asked to think about what is important 
to them in their personal lives and to make a 
commitment to work safely because of that. Each 
employee provides a few pictures of those who 
are important to them and then makes a bulleted 
list of short commitment statements. This is then 
framed and hung on the Wall of Accountability and 
Commitment in the plant’s main conference room. “I’m committed to my family; 
therefore, I will return home from work as I left. I will take personal responsibility for  
the safety of my colleagues  
and myself.”
Safety commitment from a  
Mt. Poso employeeMT. POSO PLANT – WHY WE WORK SAFEL Y
Visitors to the plant frequently comment about the wall, which triggers stimulating conversations about safety. 
Every employee, regardless of length of service, has a statement on the Wall of Accountability and Commitment.
The daily morning operations meetings at Mt. Poso begin with a safety briefing and close with all employees 
stating in unison, “I will not get hurt today.” In addition to a monthly on-site safety lunch to discuss safety 
metrics, the Mt. Poso team holds a quarterly off-site safety breakfast that includes training sessions, an open 
forum on safety suggestions, details on upcoming safety initiatives and a progress report on current processes 
and procedures. Mt. Poso also leads the fleet in Employee Safety Initiative catches, our system for capturing 
observations about near misses and potentially unsafe conditions, which has become a valuable tool for hazard 
recognition and abatement at the plant.Everyone at  
DTE Energy is  
200% accountable. 
100% responsible for  
my own safety  and 
100% responsible for 
the safety of those 
around mePublic Safety
At DTE, the safety of the public always is our overriding 
priority. Our main public safety concerns are protecting 
citizens from downed live wires after storms, and 
preventing leaks from natural gas distribution lines. 
Please see our website for more information about public 
safety and our natural gas pipeline integrity efforts.
NEW GAS MAIN BEING DELIVERED IN DEARBORN, MICHIGAN
Fermi 2 – A Culture of Safety
In an industry that demands perfection in safety, employees at DTE’s nuclear power plant, Fermi 2, must keep safety as their No. 1 priority. The plant uses a multi-pronged approach to ensure that the culture of operational safety permeates the 
organization. A safety message greets employees on the way into work; observations throughout every work day reinforce 
positive behaviors and correct negative ones; and, if mistakes are made or near misses occur, that information is shared, 
discussed and addressed as a way to continuously improve. See our website for more details about Fermi’s safety.P 30 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Environment
  
Leading the way on environmental excellence
Environmental stewardship and conservation of Earth’s natural resources are at the heart of that commitment.
At DTE Energy, we believe that our obligation to serve our customers and the community goes beyond the delivery of safe, 
reliable and affordable energy products and services. Our mission encompasses environmental stewardship and a 
commitment to protecting the natural resources upon which we all depend. 
All of our fossil and nuclear generation facilities (7), electric substations (nearly 700), and natural gas transport, storage, 
distribution and operations facilities (26) are certified to the ISO 14001 standard. This designation demonstrates our 
commitment to rigorous environmental management based on clear expectations, allocation of resources, training, 
monitoring and continuous improvement.
Within Michigan, our seven power plants and 26 natural 
gas facilities also have earned recognition under the state’s 
Clean Corporate Citizen (C3) program. To be designated a 
C3, a facility must have a comprehensive and facility-specific 
environmental management system that sets targets 
and objectives for continual environmental improvement; 
pollution prevention programs focusing on reduce, reuse, 
recycle; and a history of compliance with environmental 
regulations. More information on these certifications is 
available on our website . Environment
TRENTON CHANNEL POWER PLANTP 31 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Environment  
Working Toward Responsible 
Climate Solutions
Carbon emissions and climate change remain a topic of 
much discussion and debate, and they are key factors in 
DTE Energy’s plans for meeting energy demand in the 
coming years. Climate policy and the associated need 
to lower our greenhouse gas emissions is a leading 
environmental issue for DTE Energy and we are doing our 
part to promote a responsible approach. 
To address emissions of greenhouse gases, DTE Energy 
supports the development of a responsible regulatory 
approach that is transparent, flexible and equitable. 
We believe the approach should be structured in a way 
that achieves meaningful emission reductions, avoids 
excessive costs for customers and prevents significant 
negative impacts on the economy. We believe the approach should also be structured in a way that allows 
for new technologies to develop and mature before the 
greatest reductions are required.   
While the best approach to addressing the climate issue 
would be through federal legislation (for example, the 
Waxman-Markey Bill of 2009 that we supported), we do 
not expect climate legislation to be passed by the current 
U.S. Congress. Therefore, we have moved our focus to 
the carbon standards and regulations being proposed 
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). DTE 
Energy is actively participating with the EPA, Michigan 
regulators, the Edison Electric Institute, the Center for 
Climate and Energy Solutions, business and community groups and other stakeholders to help shape the final 
carbon performance standards for both new and existing 
power plants. These standards will influence DTE Energy’s 
future generation mix. We will continue to advocate 
for responsible and cost-effective approaches that are aligned with our corporate priorities and that will produce 
the best outcome for the environment, our customers, 
shareholders and the communities we serve. As the 
regulations become final, we expect they will establish 
greenhouse gas reduction targets that will influence our 
planning for future electric generation needs. 
We are working on shaping the regulations so they will 
have the best possible outcome for all of our stakeholders. 
We do believe that regulations can be established that achieve national environmental and economic goals, 
and can be coordinated with energy policy development 
in Michigan. DTE’s ongoing approach to managing our 
generation fleet will be coordinated with these federal and 
state policies. DTE Energy is already taking aggressive 
steps to reduce and offset greenhouse gas emissions now 
and in the future:
• W e participate in research on new technologies to make 
carbon capture and geologic carbon storage practical for both new and existing fossil-fuel power plants.
•  W e participated in carbon trading markets to help  
establish and understand the complexities of market 
driven programs.
•  W e are developing wind resources in Michigan. Deliver 10% of DTE Energy electricity from renewable 
sources by 2015
Recycle 50% of DTE Electric’s coal combustion  
byproducts (ash, gypsum) by 2015
Contracted and owned renewable projects represent 
9.6% of expected 2015 delivered electricity
51% of coal combustion byproducts recycled
Deliver 10% of DTE Energy electricity from  
renewable resources
Continue to increase byproduct recycling rates and 
explore new markets2013 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
2013 ENVIRONMENTAL RESULTS
2014 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
•  W e are helping our customers reduce energy usage and 
lower their bills by becoming more energy efficient. 
•  W e are national leaders in developing landfill gas  
capture systems and in converting small coal-fired  
power plants to run on biomass fuels. 
• W e are pursuing an operating license renewal for our  
Fermi 2 nuclear power plant, which will extend operation from 2025 to 2045.  Nuclear power is the only proven 
technology for carbon-free baseload power generation.
WIND PARK INSTALLATION IN MICHIGAN’S THUMB REGIONP 32 ContentsPromoting Clean,  
Renewable Energy
In 2008, a renewable portfolio standard (RPS) was  
established for Michigan electric providers targeting 
10 percent of electricity sold to retail customers from 
renewable energy by 2015. This was an important element 
of the comprehensive energy policy established for the 
state. DTE Energy was actively involved in shaping that 
policy and we remain committed to its success. The 
regulation requires that we either build and own renewable 
sources (accounting for no more than 50 percent of the 
amount of electricity from renewables that we sell) or 
contract from third party providers to meet the 2015 
target. Our total capital investment in renewable resources 
from 2008 through 2015 is estimated to exceed $1 billion.
As of the end of 2013, DTE Electric had approximately 900 
MW of owned or contracted renewable energy generation, 
principally wind energy parks located in Gratiot, Tuscola, 
Huron and Sanilac counties in Michigan. About 690 MW 
of this generating capacity is currently in commercial 
operation, with an additional 210 MW expected to come 
on-line in 2014. Our existing renewable energy resources 
are projected to supply 10 percent of electricity that 
will be sold to retail customers before 2015. With the 
planned investment in an additional 50 MW of renewable 
resources in 2015, DTE Electric is well positioned to meet 
the 10 percent RPS commitment.  
1
23
49
6
5
781011
12
 
  
 
   
  Wind Energy
 Solar Pilot Projects Biomass /Landﬁll Gas Energy
 
DTE Electric Owned Projects
1.  4 Thumb Wind Parks ~222 MW Wind
 Huron and Sanilac Counties
2.  Solar Currents Pilot: 13 MW contracted
 Located at customer sites across southeast Michigan ~600 customer-owned projects once complete
10. Gratiot Wind Energy - 102.4 MW* Wind12. Brookﬁeld Wind Park -  75 MW
 Huron County
Third Party Owned Projects
3.  L’Anse Warden - 17 MW Biomass Baraga County
4. Stoney Corners - 32 MW Wind
 Missaukee County
5. Tuscola Bay - 120 MW Wind
 Tuscola, Bay and Saginaw counties
6. Tuscola Wind II - 100 MW Wind
 Tuscola County
7.  Eagle Valley - 3 MW Landﬁll Gas
 Oakland County
8. Smiths Creek - 3 MW Landﬁll Gas
 St. Clair County
9.  Garden Wind Farm - 8 MW Wind
 Delta County
10. Gratiot Wind Energy - 110.4 MW Wind
 Gratiot County
11. Pheasant Run - 75 MW
 Huron County2013 Corporate Citizenship Report EnvironmentP 33 ContentsSolar
We are constantly exploring new ways to generate clean 
energy. For example, we have invested more in solar 
than anyone in the state. What we found is that solar 
currently is five times more expensive than other sources 
of renewable energy. With today’s technology, it doesn’t 
make sense for our state to invest in solar at a significant 
scale. But our commitment is to stay ready to exploit 
technology breakthroughs in solar when, and if, they 
happen. In the meantime, we have programs that enable 
customers who choose to invest in solar to do so in a 
way that works well for them and works for our broader 
electrical system and customer base as well. 
SOLAR ARRAYS AT THE FORD WAYNE ASSEMBLY PLANTWind
Wind energy is environmentally friendly and the most abundant and affordable clean energy source in Michigan. 
Wind energy is a completely renewable and non-polluting 
energy source, with minimal environmental impact 
– adding no new air or water emissions. Once wind 
generation equipment is in place, the ongoing operating 
costs of producing wind-based electricity may be less than 
other generation technologies. Although wind generation 
is not constant and cannot completely replace baseload 
generation technologies, it does help to reduce the carbon 
intensity of our overall generation fleet. The cost of wind 
generation has decreased significantly as the technology 
has advanced and the industry has expanded. DTE is the 
largest investor in wind and renewables in Michigan.
Before DTE Electric built any wind farms, more than two 
years of wildlife studies were conducted to ensure  
projects were sited to minimize the potential for bird and 
bat interactions with turbines. These studies focused on 
wildlife behaviors during migration and breeding seasons, 
and included special focus on bald eagles, Kirtland warblers, tundra swans and various species of bats. In 
2014, DTE will begin post-construction monitoring within 
our wind energy parks to ensure our operations remain 
protective of wildlife. 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Environment  
Biomass
We operate five wood-fired power plants located outside  
of Michigan, which produced about 1 million MWh of 
electricity in 2013. We also run 16 landfill gas-to-energy 
projects in Michigan and elsewhere around the country. 
Biomass-fueled generation is an environmentally beneficial 
technology because it harnesses energy from combustion 
of sustainable organic material and reduces the use of 
fossil fuels. Landfill gas facilities capture methane — which 
is 25 times more powerful in its greenhouse gas impact 
than carbon dioxide — and recover energy in the form of 
electricity, steam or thermal energy. 
WORKER AT DTE BIOMASS SITEDTE Energy is the largest 
investor  in wind and   
renewables in Michigan
WIND TURBINES ON FARMS IN ELKTON, MICHIGAN (HURON COUNTY)P 34 ContentsEnergy Efficiency
Since 2009, the following environmental benefits of DTE’s energy efficiency programs 
have been achieved:
• The electric and gas savings amount is equivalent to greenhouse gas emissions avoided 
by recycling 63,430 tons of waste instead of sending it to the landfill.
• The annual carbon emissions that can be avoided are equivalent to burning more than 
600 railcars worth of coal, or preserving over 1,000 acres of forest rather than turning it 
to commercial use.
• The electric savings eliminates the need for approximately half of a new coal-fired power 
plant. DTE’s energy efficiency programs are designed to help reduce customers’ energy use by increasing awareness of energy saving possibilities and providing products 
and services such as rebates, tips, comparison tools, strategies and energy efficiency 
education to help customers make informed energy saving decisions. Programs are 
designed to capture both electric and natural gas savings for all customer classes. For 
those DTE customers with only electric or only natural gas service, efforts were made 
to coordinate and align with other utilities so that these customers could easily take 
advantage of energy efficiency program offerings across both fuel types. 
• In 2 013, customers participating in energy efficiency programs saved $512 million in 
present value energy savings. 
Each year, new program options continue to be added to the energy efficiency portfolio. More information on these programs is available on our website. 
Through our Energy Partnership business, DTE supplies expertise to major 
industrial customers to help them optimize their energy management and 
capture efficiencies. DTE’s Energy Partnership Engineers have helped our major industrial customers reduce energy usage by 100 million kilowatt-hours and 400 million cubic feet of natural gas over the last five years. These savings are equivalent to the annual average electricity consumption of over 9,000 
homes and the annual average natural gas consumption of over 5,500 homes.
As one example, we have worked with General Motors for 20 years to help  
them manage energy at several sites. Under contract to the auto manufacturer,  
DTE provides 24 Energy Engineers who work on-site at GM engine plants, transmission plants, sheet metal stamping centers, foundries, testing facilities, car and truck assembly plants, and office complexes. Some of these facilities are in excess of 4.3 million square feet and over 100 acres of building space requiring heating, air conditioning and lighting.
GM relies on our engineers to identify opportunities to reduce energy consumption, 
monitor usage patterns, assist with budgeting and investigate new technologies. 
Identified opportunities are analyzed for value and if they meet certain parameters, 
they become energy efficiency projects. Our engineers also look to identify and request incentives that will help pay for new energy efficiency projects through the local utilities.
In 2012, the U.S. EPA recognized GM as its ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year 
in the automotive category, citing the company’s commitment to energy efficiency and GHG reductions. DTE Energy played an important supporting role in this achievement.
DTE Energy  
Partnership Promotes 
Efficiency at  
General Motors2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Environment
DTE Electric DTE Gas
614
GWh
2013 
Net Actual
Savings471
GWh
2013 
Required
Savings1,436
MMcf
2013 
Net Actual
Savings1,240
MMcf
2013 
Required
Savings1,474
MMcf
2012 
Net Actual
Savings455
GWh611
GWh1,186
MMcf
2012 
Required
Savings2012 
Net Actual
Savings2012 
Required
Savings
1.24GWh = gigawatt-hour              MMcf = million cubic feetP 35 ContentsAir Quality
DTE Electric has consistently supported responsible controls on power plant emissions. 
We have been a leader in adopting new technologies and practices to reduce emissions 
since the 1920s when our Trenton Channel Power Plant was among the first power plants 
in the United States to install electrostatic precipitators to remove fly ash from the 
exhaust stacks. In the last 40 years, DTE Electric has dramatically reduced emissions while 
customer demand for electricity has escalated. In 2013, 78 percent of our annual electricity 
production was generated from fossil fuel, primarily coal. Our Fermi 2 nuclear plant 
accounts for most of the remaining generation.
DTE Electric has reduced emissions of particulate matter (PM), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and 
nitrogen oxides (NOx) by more than 70 percent since the mid-1970s, while during this same 
period, total annual generation increased 29 percent.2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Environment  
DTE Electric Power Plant Emissions 2007-2018
250,000
150,000
SO2 Emit ted50,000
07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 1850,000,000
30,000,000
10,000,000Tons SO 2 or NO x Tons CO 2
Projecte d
NOx Emit ted CO2 Emit ted#4AA847
R 74 
G 168 B 71
C 73.5  
M 9.12Y 100K 0.45
#1B824E
R 27 
G 130 B 78
C 85.57 
M 25.33Y 87.43K 11.22
#8CC641
R 140 
G 198 B 65
C 50.07 
M 0.15Y 98.05K 0 More recently, since 2007 we have reduced emissions 50 percent for PM, 45 percent for 
SO2,  45 percent for NOx, and 19 percent for mercury. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions have 
also declined over this time period as net generation has fallen partially due to renewables 
and energy efficiency initiatives. 
We continue to invest in emission reductions to meet continually more stringent air quality 
requirements as we near completion of a $1.7 billion program to install state-of-the-art 
emission controls at the Monroe Power Plant, our largest generating plant and the fourth 
largest coal-fired plant in the country. Selective catalytic reduction systems (SCRs) have 
been operational on three of the Monroe Power Plant’s four generating units since 2005. 
SCRs use a combination of metal catalysts and ammonia to convert nitrogen oxides to 
harmless nitrogen and water. SCRs provide a 90 percent reduction of nitrogen oxides and 
help to reduce the formation of fine particulates. The fourth and final SCR at Monroe is 
scheduled to be operational in late 2014.
Two flue gas desulfurization systems (FGDs) began operation at Monroe Power Plant in 
2009. FGDs for the remaining two units recently completed construction at the Monroe 
Plant and are now operational. FGD is the global technology standard for controlling SO2 
emissions, which contribute to the formation of acid rain and fine particulates. These 
systems work by routing plant exhaust through a shower of finely pulverized limestone in 
water. The SO2 bonds with the limestone, and after additional processing is ready to be sold 
as gypsum, an ingredient in wallboard. FGD typically reduces SO2 emissions by more than 
90 percent. In addition, FGDs and SCRs in combination reduce mercury emissions to the 
atmosphere and will help us comply with EPA’s Mercury and Air Toxics Standards by the  
2015 deadline.
Commercially available controls for reduction of CO2 emissions have not been demonstrated 
at the utility scale, so additional reductions of CO2 must be achieved through reduced fossil 
generation, improved plant efficiency, switching to less carbon-intensive fuels, and other 
technological alternatives that reduce the CO2 emissions for every megawatt-hour (MWh) 
of generation.P 36 Contents 
 Water
Our largest area of water-related impact is water withdrawal and use at our steam electric 
power generating stations, which utilize surface water for cooling purposes. These 
generating stations operate under the authority of National Pollutant Discharge Elimination 
System (NPDES) permits, and local sanitary sewer permits where applicable. DTE Energy 
does not inventory water inputs and outputs for its service centers, call centers and office 
buildings, which are generally served by purchased municipal water. The water use at these 
types of facilities is minor compared to withdrawals for the steam electric power plants.
In 2013, DTE Energy withdrew approximately 1.3 trillion gallons of cooling water from 
surface water bodies. Water consumption (water not returned directly to the water system, 
largely lost through evaporation) is 1.57 percent. The majority of our power plants utilize 
once-through cooling, so most of the water that is withdrawn is then returned to the same 
water body with a slightly elevated temperature. These thermal discharges have not been 
found to adversely affect aquatic ecosystems. 
Waste
DTE Energy’s pollution prevention programs help to minimize impacts and conserve resources  
by reducing the volume of waste that would otherwise go to landfills for disposal.
We are a member of several voluntary pollution prevention and waste minimization programs:
•  Michigan Business Pollution Prevention Partnership, a voluntary initiative 
coordinated by state government for companies interested in sharing information on 
their waste reduction programs
•  U.S. EPA’s Wastewise, which helps organizations and businesses apply sustainable 
materials management practices to reduce waste
•  U.S. EPA’s Natural Gas Star Program,  a voluntary partnership that encourages 
natural gas companies to adopt cost-effective technologies and practices that improve 
operational efficiency and reduce methane emissionsWorking with  
Goodwill Industries
Additional information about our waste generation and  
management is available on our website.2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Environment
In 2013, DTE Energy received Goodwill Industries’ Corporate Award in 
celebration of the company’s long-standing partnership with Goodwill, 
which began in 1942. 
For the past 68 years, DTE Energy and Goodwill Industries have 
worked together to operate DTE Energy’s Investment Recovery Group, 
focusing on salvaging materials that would otherwise be headed for landfills. Beginning in 2010, we collaborated to form a new entity, 
Goodwill Greenworks. Goodwill Greenworks performs salvage and 
recycling operations and splits the proceeds with DTE Energy. This arrangement enables Goodwill Greenworks to offer work opportunities 
to vulnerable, at-risk populations, enabling them to learn new skills 
and gain work experience, ultimately increasing future job prospects. This work is now performed in a 96,000- square-foot facility located 
in Detroit. In 2013 this partnership prevented over 15 million pounds of 
recyclable and reusable materials from entering the landfill.
Our partnership with Goodwill Industries provides us with cost-
effective industrial recycling while providing trainees job skills that 
can lead to permanent employment. The decades-long collaboration has created a significant number of local job opportunities, which have 
benefited the community, the environment and the local economy. P 37 ContentsCoal Combustion Byproducts 
Fly ash and bottom ash are byproducts of the coal burned in our power plants. In the last 
three years, we have installed dry handling equipment to improve the recyclability of our 
fly ash and recycle rates have steadily increased.  DTE Energy operates three licensed 
landfills for disposal of fly ash that is not recycled and each coal plant has on-site facilities 
for storing residual ash.  These landfills are operated in compliance with the applicable 
state and federal laws and are routinely inspected by state and local regulatory agencies.
Fly ash is used by concrete and asphalt companies as a beneficial additive. 
Gypsum is a byproduct from the flue gas desulfurization equipment used to reduce air 
emissions at our coal–fired power plants. Gypsum is used as a component in drywall 
manufacturing and as a beneficial additive in agriculture.
Additional Recycling Efforts
Breaking down and salvaging materials is DTE’s Investment Recovery Group’s core mission. 
From telephones to transformers, this group finds new life for old materials, reducing the 
amount of reusable and recyclable resources that would otherwise be headed for landfills.DTE Energy recycles materials beyond the Goodwill partnership (see page 36) including 
paper, batteries, used oil, electronic equipment, appliances and light bulbs. While recycling 
conserves renewable and nonrenewable resources, it’s even better to use less from the 
start. We began a company-wide paper savings initiative in early 2009 resulting in a 19.6 
percent reduction in copy paper purchased. As a result of this initiative, we expect our 
recycling volumes to actually drop as we continue to use less paper.
Compliance
Our track record demonstrates our commitment to complying with all legal and regulatory requirements. This is a top priority at all DTE Energy operations and is demonstrated  
by an exemplary record of minimal amounts of regulatory enforcement actions and monetary fines. 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and an environmental activist group have 
brought litigation against DTE Electric for violations of provisions of the Clean Air Act.  
DTE Energy has maintained throughout these legal proceedings that we have operated our plants in compliance with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations. To date,  
we have been successful in defending our position.2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Environment  
Please see our website for a discussion of recent compliance 
actions related to our operations   2011 2012  2013
Ash Amoun t generated  
  ( million lbs)  2 068  2 097  2124
  Amoun t recycled  
  ( million lbs)  446  8 14  897
  P ercent recycled  2 2%  3 9%  42%
Gypsum  Amoun t generated  
  ( million lbs)  2 88  3 29  397
  Amoun t recycled  
  ( million lbs)  19 7  3 29  384
  P ercent recycled  68 %  100%  97%
Total  Total percent recycled  27%  47%  51%Coal Combustion Byproducts RecyclingP 38 ContentsIn 2013, DTE Energy participated in the groundbreaking event at the Detroit River International 
Wildlife Refuge (IWR) Gateway in Trenton, Michigan. The refuge holds particular significance 
to DTE. Portions of our Fermi 2 Power Plant and Monroe Power Plant sites are incorporated 
in the refuge.
DTE Energy employees designed, built and erected a wildlife sculpture for this historic 
event. The sculpture depicts the ecological diversity of the refuge, which comprises more 
than 5,700 acres along 48 miles of the lower Detroit River and western Lake Erie. The 
groundbreaking event celebrated plans to build a 12,000-square-foot visitor center that 
will include a theater, classrooms and offices, along with a wildlife observation area and 
outdoor patios. 
DTE Energy approached staff of the Detroit River IWR to offer to build the wildlife sculpture 
at the Refuge Gateway. The sculpture depicts lake sturgeon and walleye at the bottom,  
cattails, turtles, dragonflies, woodpeckers and blue heron as you move up the symbolic 
food web, and bald eagles as top predators at the pinnacle.
This project brought us together with an important local community initiative, and will 
prove a long-standing partnership as the refuge grows its facilities over time.Land and Natural Resources Management
At DTE Energy, we work to take care of the land, water and living creatures both within our boundaries and beyond. DTE is one of the largest landowners in Michigan. We maintain 
thousands of acres of land in its natural state and provide habitat for hundreds of species 
of birds, mammals, fish and insects. 
DTE Electric and DTE Gas, our two primary operating utilities, have a long history of  
environmental stewardship in Michigan. We have instituted significant environmental 
management practices and won awards from many external agencies for our voluntary 
measures. Our voluntary stewardship activities involve hundreds of employees from across 
the company and dozens of external partnerships including universities, government  
agencies and nonprofit organizations.
DTE Energy facilities are home to hundreds of species of wildlife. Some are endangered or 
threatened, and we are helping their numbers increase and their populations stabilize, in 
part through our efforts to provide habitat in an environment that frequently makes little 
room for wildlife. To this end, DTE Energy has 30 sites certified under the Wildlife Habitat 
Council (WHC). These sites are on multiple-year certification cycles and in 2013, 16 of the 
30 Wildlife at Work programs were recertified. 
In 2013, the Monroe Power Plant became the first DTE 
Energy site to be certified 
under WHC’s Corporate 
Lands for Learning program, 
which provides recognition 
for education and outreach programs developed by the 
site. The Monroe facility 
enjoys an abundance of bald 
eagles, and DTE employees 
provide access to visitors for eagle tours during the month of January when eagles are abundant. Guests have an opportunity to learn about these birds from a University of Michigan 
naturalist, and wildlife photographers are able to study and document eagle activities.WILDLIFE REFUGE PARTNERSHIP
Visit our website to learn more about our WHC certifications and view examples of DTE Energy’s  
efforts to protect biodiversity, wildlife and habitat. 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Environment
FLYING BALD EAGLE AT MONROE POWER PLANT
TRENTON CHANNEL POWER PLANT BEAUTIFICATION PROJECT
 A MINK MAKES HIS HOME IN THE WILDLIFE PRESERVE ON FERMI 2 
NUCLEAR POWER PLANT PROPERTYP 39 ContentsRemediation
Before natural gas became widely available in the 1940s and ‘50s, “manufactured gas” 
produced from coal was used for lighting, cooking and heating in homes and businesses.  
As natural gas – which is extracted from underground geological formations – replaced manufactured gas, manufactured gas plants were shut down. Years later, industry and 
state and federal environmental agencies began studying these sites and recognized that 
plant operations and the way in which manufactured gas plants were abandoned had 
resulted in residual contamination at the sites. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
estimates that 3,000 to 5,000 former manufactured gas plant sites are located in towns 
and cities across the country.
As DTE Gas, founded in 1849, grew into the statewide utility it is today, it acquired numerous 
local gas companies that had operated manufactured gas plants. Today, the company is 
responsible for a total of 15 sites throughout the state. A 
preliminary response and  investigation has been 
completed at each site. Full 
remediation and closure has 
been achieved at two sites in 
Detroit. In addition, a portion 
of a former Grand Rapids 
gas plant site has been 
remediated and redeveloped 
as the site of the Tassell Michigan Technical Education Center (M-TEC) for Grand Rapids Community College. We anticipate receiving a closure from the Michigan Department 
of Environmental Quality (DEQ) in 2014 for the portion of the site that was cleaned up 
and redeveloped as M-TEC.  We have completed remedial activities at other sites and are 
actively working with the DEQ to obtain partial or complete site closures at six sites over 
the next two years. 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Environment  
 
We recently completed the cleanup of a former manufactured gas plant site 
along Jefferson Avenue in Detroit. The cleanup covers about 14 acres of the 
former industrial site near the MacArthur Bridge to Belle Isle. The cleanup, led 
by DTE Gas, was completed during the fall of 2013 and will prepare the site for  
possible development.
For about 100 years, a succession of industrial operations, buildings, docks and 
equipment occupied the property. In the early 1980s, a Uniroyal tire plant and 
most other buildings were razed and the 43-acre site sat idle until 2011, when 
DTE Gas, DuPont and Michelin initiated a cleanup on the western 14 acres of 
the property. This part of the site had several prior uses, including production 
of coal gas for heating, cooking and lighting by local business and residential 
customers, an ammonia factory and a fuel unloading dock.
Approximately 680,000 tons of contaminated soil have now been removed and 
a 700 foot long, 110 foot deep seawall built. A water treatment system was used 
to pre-treat water collected during the digging before it was discharged to the 
City’s sewer system for further treatment by the Detroit Water and  
Sewage Department.
The contaminated soil was replaced with clean fill material and the site was restored 
with topsoil and grass seed. The area of the site closer to the Detroit River was 
seeded with a blend of native plants, wildflowers and grass. In addition, the cleanup 
will allow for the continuation of the Riverwalk along the Detroit River, completing 
a recreational resource that stretches from Joe Louis Arena to Belle Isle.Expanding  
Detroit’s  
Riverwalk
UNIROYAL SITE ALONG THE DETROIT RIVER AFTER CLEANUP P 40 ContentsPlease view our online report for more details  
and a full GRI index.2013 Corporate Citizenship Report About This Report
About This Report
This is the first Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)-compliant report for DTE Energy, covering 
calendar year 2013. GRI is a voluntary, international framework that provides guidance to 
organizations on non-financial reporting. DTE Energy utilizes the G4 guidance, published in 2013, 
to help us craft our communications about corporate citizenship programs and performance.
The full online report on our Corporate Citizenship website includes an index of GRI 
indicators. We conducted a materiality analysis to identify those issues that are significant 
for our company, and the content of our report reflects those priorities. In accordance 
with the GRI guidelines, we also discuss stakeholder engagement and how we interact 
with our stakeholders – including employees, investors, customers and neighbors – around 
environmental and social topics.
We intend to publish our Corporate Citizenship report on an annual basis. As we are still 
developing and formalizing our data collection process, we have not pursued third party 
data assurance for this year. Report data represent aggregated data across our entire 
operation unless otherwise stated.Contact
We welcome feedback from our stakeholders regarding 
this report and our corporate citizenship programs and 
performance. Please direct any comments or questions to: 
citizenship@dteenergy.com 
One Energy Plaza 
Detroit, MI 48226-1221
For more information visit: 
dtecitizenship.com
P 41 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Summary
2013 GOAL 2013 RESULT 2014 GOAL YEAR OVER YEAR DATA    
  2010 2011 2012 2013
Community   
Invest in Michigan with a $625 
million cumulative increase in Michigan spending from 2011Achieved $809 million  
cumulative increase in  
Michigan spending since 2011Invest in Michigan with a $1  
billion cumulative increase  
in Michigan spending from  
2011-2015 $475 million  
Baseline Michigan spend$122 million  
additional over 2010$351 million  
additional over 2010$334 million  
additional over 2010
Pledge $1.6 million to United  
Way (employees and retirees)Employees and retirees pledged $1,691,000 to United Way in  
2013 campaign (for 2014)Goal for 2014 pledges has not  
yet been established-- $1,499,536 $1,600,000 $1,691,000
Customers   
Increase the electric residential  
customer satisfaction index  
to 7 4 percent  
See footnoteAchieved top quartile customer satisfaction in the J.D. Power Electric Residential Satisfaction Survey (as compared to a peer group of 16 Midwest utilities)Achieve top ranking in customer  
satisfaction among our peers  
in the J.D. Power Customer  
Satisfaction Survey by 2017-- -- -- --
Reliability measured as length  
of customer interruptions  
(in minutes) divided by number  
of customers, or “Duration Index.”  Target:  419 minutesDuration Index = 583 minutes Duration Index = 342 minutes 434 minutes 606 minutes 472 minutes 583 minutes
Establish Low-Income  
Self-Sufficiency Plan and enroll 20,000 customersEnrolled 28,947 customers in  
Low-Income Self-Sufficiency  
PlanEnroll 50,000 customers  
during 2014-2015 winter  
heating season-- -- -- 28,947
  No te on Customer Satisfaction Goal:  We met our publicly stated goal of 7 4% for residential customer satisfaction, based on our company-specific measurement methodology. However, we fell short of our internal target of 78% among  
business customers. During 2013, we re-evaluated our metrics and methodology and selected the J.D. Power and Associates (JDPA) Customer Satisfaction Index as our preferred approach for measuring customer satisfaction going forward.  
As a result of this change, we have a new baseline and measurement system for 2014 not directly comparable to our 2013 goal.Goals and Performance Summary  
Shading indicates those goals that we met in 2013.P 42 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Summary
2013 GOAL 2013 RESULT 2014 GOAL YEAR OVER YEAR DATA    
  2010 2011 2012 2013
Employees   
Employee Engagement Gallup 
GrandMean of 4.16 (metric  
of employee engagement on  
a scale of 1 to 5)Employee Engagement Gallup GrandMean of 4.18GrandMean score of 4.23  3.93 3.98  4.08 4.18 
Improve employee safety with a total Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)  
Recordable Rate of 1.03OSHA Recordable Rate of 0.81 (20% better than target)OSHA Recordable Rate of 0.75 1.29 1.19 1.24 0.81
Administer the National Safety 
Council Barometer Survey for 
major business units in 2013  
and establish a 2014 leading  
indicator incentive plan metricSurveyed major business units and established a 2013 baseline: 
91% averageImprove safety as measured 
by the National Safety Council 
Barometer Survey. 2014 target:  
95% average-- -- -- 91% average
Environment   
Deliver 10% of DTE Energy  
electricity from renewable  
sources by 2015Contracted and owned  
renewable projects  
represent 9.6% of expected  
2015 delivered electricityDeliver 10% of DTE Energy  
electricity from renewable resources-- -- -- 9.6%
Recycle 50% of DTE Electric’s coal combustion byproducts  
(ash, gypsum) by 2015Recycled 51% of coal  
combustion byproducts Continue to increase recycling rates and explore new markets-- 27% 47% 51%Goals and Performance Summary  
Shading indicates those goals that we met in 2013.P 43 Contents2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Summary
2013 GOAL 2013 RESULT 2014 GOAL YEAR OVER YEAR DATA    
  2010 2011 2012 2013
Achieve gas energy savings of 
1,240 million cubic feet (MMcf) Achieved savings of 1,436 MMcf Achieve gas energy savings of 1,305 MMcf-- -- 1,47 4 MMcf saved 1,436 MMcf saved
Achieve electric energy savings of 471 gigawatt-hours (GWh)Achieved savings of 614 GWh Achieve electric energy savings of 534 GWh-- -- 611 GWh saved 614 GWh saved
Economic   
Deliver long-term operating  
earnings per share growth of  
5% to 6% per year2013 operating earnings per share is $4.09, 3.81% growthAchieve 5% to 6% growth in 2014 and beyond Earnings per share 
$3.64$3.75 $3.94 $4.09
Annual growth 9.13% 3.02% 5.07% 3.81%
Deliver total shareholder  
return that is better than  
our peer group average2013 total shareholder return  
was 14.9%; our peer group  
average was 14.2% as  
compared to a peer group  
of 23 Midwest utilities Achieve 10% to 12% total  
shareholder return in  
2014-2018 (including  
reinvestment of dividends)9.06% 25.76% 14.9% 14.89%
Maintain leverage within  
50% to 52%, and funds  
from operations/debt at  
20% to 22%2013 year end:  
Leverage debt: 49%  
Funds from operations/debt  
ratio: 23%Target leverage 50% to 52%  
Funds from operations/debt  
ratio: 20% to 22%Debt: 51%  
Op/Debt: 28%Debt: 51%  
Op/Debt: 24%Debt: 49%  
Op/Debt: 22%Debt: 50%  
Op/Debt: 23%Goals and Performance Summary  
Shading indicates those goals that we met in 2013.