2015-16 Corporate Citizenship Report
Highlights
A Force for Gr owth & Pr osperit y Across Michigan
 Long hist ory of support 
for annual Cherry F estiv al
GRand Jazz F estiv al sponsor
Nesting eagle s at Monr oe 
Power Plan t34 sit es cer tified by the Wildlif e 
Habit at Council, including ne w 
sites in Escanaba, Kingsf ord, 
Peto skey and Sault Ste. Marie
DTE Ener gy emplo ys 9000+ people
Reducing CO 2 emissions 
through renewable 
energy sour ces
Replacing mains for long-t erm 
gas sa fety and r eliabilit y In 2015, 
DTE Ener gy Foundation
made $15 million in gr ants to 
communities acr oss Michigan
Working with in-s tate supplier s 
through Pure Michigan 
Business Connect  Building the largest 
utility solar arr ay east  
of the Mississippi
Gas st orage and pipeline s 
support deliv ery of reliable , 
affordable ener gy 
Major c apital projects ha ve 
reduce d emission s at Monr oeUpgr ading ener gy 
grid and trimming 
trees to impr ove 
electric reliabilit y 
More vibr ant 
downtown Detroit 
Moving Forward:  DTE Energy and 
Our Communities 
In the past year, substantial strides have been made in mapping out a 
new direction for our country’s energy generation to limit greenhouse gas emissions and move to cleaner, greener technologies. We at DTE Energy played a significant role in developing the federal clean energy rule, known as the Clean Power Plan. This rule would yield significant environmental progress and, I believe, does that in a way that is workable for our industry and its customers. It’s a great change for our nation and will allow us to continue providing clean, safe, reliable and affordable energy. 
Despite the debate about the new rule in the federal courts, we at 
DTE are moving forward with fundamentally modernizing the way we generate electricity. Our Aspiration to be the best-operated energy company in North America and a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve will be our guide as we invest in this transformation, and we will work to build a better future for Michigan and the communities in which we operate across the country. 
On our journey toward our Aspiration, we accomplished a significant 
amount of work in 2015, all of which was the product of the energy our employees bring to work each day.  
We had the lowest number of injuries in DTE’s history – surpassing our 
goal. And we made strides in our electric reliability; most notably, our outage minutes were down 65 percent in 2015, due in large part to a more strategic tree trimming program.
In the past year, we spent a lot of time framing our strategy around what 
it means to be “a force for growth and prosperity in our communities.” As a result, we are implementing a much more robust employee volun-teerism initiative, with the intention of creating a best-in-class program to engage more employees in more impactful opportunities, such as skill-based volunteerism. We also are continuing to strengthen our charitable contributions. The DTE Energy Foundation, our philanthropic arm, donated $15 million in 2015, a 25 percent increase over 2014.
This is an exciting time for our business and our employees, and I am 
proud to lead them. On behalf of the men and women of DTE Energy, I invite you to read our Corporate Citizenship Report at dtecitizenship.com and share your feedback at citizenship@dteenergy.com.
 
Gerry Anderson
Chairman and CEODTE EnergyDTE Energy 
earned the   
Gallup Great Workplace 
Award  4 years 
in a rowCommunity
Employee Volunteers
Volunteering has always been an important part of our company’s culture. Today, DTE Energy 
employees are dedicating thousands of hours each year to make a difference in our communities. In 2015, 2,335 employees participated in more than 100 company-sponsored volunteer events, including Holiday Meals on Wheels, Arbor Day and DTE Cares Days. Our volunteer program develops leadership skills among our employees and builds relationships with our neighbors.
Working With Communities
DTE Energy plays an essential part in community life, as an energy company and charitable partner. In 2015, we touched more than 450 communities across Michigan with financial support totaling $18 million (including $15 million in DTE Energy Foundation grants). We support educa-tional programs in math and science to grow the next generation of skilled workers, and provide funding so young people can get work experience through summer jobs. 
We work hard to make our neighborhoods prosperous and vibrant places to live, work and play, 
with projects like the Detroit solar park. 
DTE Energy Foundation Spending
2015 total = $15 million
Neighborhood Safety
and  Revitalization: Economic Progress: 
Supporting organizations 
and events throughout Michigan that attract tourists, encourage the arts, generate jobs and promote a thriving local community.Environmental
Stewardship: 
Supporting organizations 
that carry out initiatives such as reforestation, recycling and habitat restoration.Supporting organizations who share our commitment to neighborhoods by promoting safety and implementing programs to revitalize our community.Employment and 
Education: 
Supporting organizations 
focused on STEM 
curriculum, job training for 
people with disabilities and 
youth employment 
opportunities, among 
others.“DTE volunteers went above and  
beyond the call of duty. They asked  
us what we need, what else they 
could bring. Most people don’t do that. When they got to one of the houses, they saw that the family didn’t have groceries, so some  
employees stocked the fridge.  
They bought over $250 worth of  
groceries out of their own pocket.”
- Julie Nagle  
   Director of Humble Design, a nonprofit helping     
   families transitioning out of homeless shelters by  
   providing furnishings and design services
Economic Development
DTE Energy is a founding member of Pure Michigan Business  Connect. We have committed to spending an additional $5 billion with Michigan companies over  the next 5 years. By using local  suppliers, we support good jobs  for our state and economic strength for our communities. Michigan-Based Supplier Spend
(units in million dollars)
2010 2011 2013 2012 2014 2015 
$475$600$825 $800$922$945Neighborhood Safety
and  Revitalization: Economic Progress: 
Supporting organizations 
and events throughout Michigan that attract tourists, encourage the arts, generate jobs and promote a thriving local community.Environmental
Stewardship: 
Supporting organizations 
that carry out initiatives such as reforestation, recycling and habitat restoration.Supporting organizations who share our commitment to neighborhoods by promoting safety and implementing programs to revitalize our community.Employment and 
Education: 
Supporting organizations 
focused on STEM 
curriculum, job training for 
people with disabilities and 
youth employment 
opportunities, among 
others.Customers
Electric Reliability
DTE Electric is in the midst of a multi-year program to improve reliability. Trimming trees and 
installing newer equipment reduces the number of electric service interruptions, and also helps us restore service more quickly.  
Affordability
Reasonable energy costs, for businesses as well as residential customers, are good for the Michigan economy. DTE Energy works to be the best-operated company in the industry, which means delivering energy efficiently, reliably and safely. We provide our customers with many ways to reduce their gas and electricity use too.  
For the more vulnerable families we serve, DTE’s innovative Low-Income Self-Sufficiency Plan helps keep the lights and heat on. When they enroll in the plan, customers learn to con-serve energy, budget for their energy bills and avoid service interruptions. During the 2014-2015 winter heating season, 34,000 customers enrolled in the self-sufficiency plan and 90% stayed with the plan all season (an increase from 81% in the previous year).
New smart meters allow our customers to use mobile technology to  
manage their energy use and save money.
More than 
300,000 gas 
meter safety  
inspections  
every year80 miles of new 
pipeline in 2015, 
and 100 miles  
planned in 2016Nearly 10,000 
miles of pipeline 
surveyed  
annually for 
leak detection$1.6 billion  
in planned  
investments 
over the next  
5 yearsGas Safety and Reliability
To maintain integrity in our natural gas delivery system – and to keep our communities safe – DTE Gas is investing in improved pipelines and equipment. “With the 30 or so metal halide lights we 
were using, you could watch the meter dial spin. Even the light switches were warm from the energy going through them. After the lighting upgrade  
facilitated by DTE Energy, our shop is  
open 20 hours longer per week . . . .”
 - Chris Braden
  Owner, Munk’s Motors
  
Total duration of customer power outages:65% less in 2015  
compared to 2014Change in Electric Retail Rate 2012-2015
 DTEcitizenship.comChange in retail rate
 2012-2015
US Average
DTE electric
-9%6.1%
Over the last several years, DTE Electric’s retail 
rates have actually decreased, while average 
rates around the country have increased.Environment
Transforming How We Supply Energy
We’re transforming the way we supply energy, using more natural gas, wind and solar. This 
change will continue over the next 15 years. As we move toward cleaner energy sources, DTE remains focused on maintaining reliability and keeping energy affordable for our customers.
Customer Energy Efficiency
Protecting the environment while helping our customers save money: It’s a win-win for DTE Energy. Our energy efficiency programs provide valuable advice and tools for our customers about home appliance efficiency, lighting options and weatherization.
Renewable Energy
By investing in renewable energy sources, we can meet our customers’ energy needs and reduce our environmental impact. DTE Energy owns more renewable energy sources – wind and solar – than any other company in Michigan. We’re building the largest utility-owned solar project east of the Mississippi, and one of the largest urban solar projects in the U.S.
DTE Ener gy Transformation
Nuclear p ower gener ation pr ovides a 
signific ant amount of essentially 
carbon-fr ee, base-load electricit y, 
which is crucial f or helping the st ate of 
Michigan and the entir e Unit ed States 
meet the challenges of reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions ( GHGs )
In 2015 we purchased two 
natur al gas -fired simple cy cle 
plants that, c ombined, can 
provide mor e than 1, 000 MW 
of power during peak demand 
periods .We’re building the lar gest 
utility-owned solar pr oject east  
of the Mississippi.We participat e in r esear ch on 
new technologies to mak e 
carbon capture and geologic 
carbon st orage pr actic al for 
both ne w and e xisting 
fossil-fuel power plants .We are national leader s in 
developing landfill gas ca pture 
systems and in co nverting small 
coal-fir ed power plants to run on 
biomas s fuels .DTE Ener gy is the lar gest 
investor in r enewable 
ener gy in Michigan.“I’ve worked with DTE Energy for 
many years. Bald eagles thrive in the open spaces at the Monroe Power Plant and the Fermi 2  
Nuclear Energy Facility. We’ve been able to monitor the health of those nesting birds and their  offspring over time. DTE is a 
great partner to work with; its  
employees are really dedicated  
to protecting wildlife.” 
 - Dave Best  
   U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service biologist      
 (retired)
17% reduction in 
CO 2 compared to 
2010 baseline  
On track to achieve 
our goal of 20% reduction by 2020Emission Reductions from DTE Power Plants
Employees
Promoting Safety and Health
We want every employee to go home healthy and safe each day. The energy our employees 
invested into safety programs made us one of the safest companies to work for in America in 2015.  DTE Energy promotes a healthy work environment and helps our employees pursue balanced lifestyles.
Developing a Skilled and Diverse Workforce
The future of our company depends on the generation of tomorrow. DTE recruits top candidates from a broad and diverse population, and invests in on-the-job training so our employees can develop skills to advance their careers. As the face of our industry changes, we’re helping prepare the next generation of DTE leaders.  
We work hard to maintain an open and inclusive culture among our 10,000 employees.  In particular, DTE Energy is recognized for excellence in recruiting veterans and in hiring and training people with disabilities.
We strive to make all employees feel empowered and valued.
We’ve created world-class  
wellness programs.    
At our new onsite health facility, 
employees at our Detroit  
headquarters get a leg up on  
their wellness goals.
“On a day-to-day basis, I constantly 
remind myself that I am the first female lineworker in DTE. This makes me work harder to  
represent and inspire all  
women who feel like they  
can be a lineworker too.”   
 
- Stacie Reeves 
   DTE Overhead Lineworker
In 2015, we achieved 
the best safety   
performance, and 
the fewest incidents, 
in DTE history. DTE Energy Workforce Demographics
  
 
25% Female75% Male0.5% Two or More
Races / Other
0.5% American Indian
or Alaskan Native
2.5% Asian / Native
Hawaiian / OtherPacific Islander
2.5% Hispanic/ Latino
20% Black or African
American
74% WhiteCompany Highlights
 
One Energy Plaza
Detroit, MI 48226-1221 citizenship@dteenergy.comPlease visit the full  
DTE Energy Citizenship Report 
on our website at  
www.dtecitizenship.com.  
Ther e you can find more detailed information 
about how we’re moving forward.2.2 million 
customers 7,600 sq mile 
service territoryPower generated by 
coal, oil, natural gas, 
nuclear, wind,  
biomass and solar
1.2 million  
customers14,700 sq mile  
service territoryNatural gas storage, 
transport and  
distribution
Gathering 
pipelines  near 
gas production 
areas  Partial ownership of 
major interstate 
pipelines60+ Power and  
Industrial Projects  
in 17 states across 
the countryDTE Electric
DTE Gas
 
Non-regulated  
businesses
 
Printed on New Leaf Reincarnation 100, made of 100% recycled fiber, 
designated Ancient Forest FriendlyTM and manufactured with electricity that  
is offset with Green-e® certified renewable energy certificates.
160821/EPI/30k/05-16