2016-2017 Corporate Citizenship  
Report
Not long ago, I spent two weeks in Peru with my oldest son hiking and experiencing local 
culture. A highlight of our trip came near its end, when we hiked out of Colca Canyon, 
the second deepest in the world. Before beginning the climb, I worried about my ability 
to ascend the steep, rocky climb out. I soon realized that the prior two weeks of vigorous 
physical activity at high elevation had made me stronger than I realized, and I enjoyed a 
hike that had seemed daunting a few hours earlier.
The story is much the same at DTE Energy. We are doing things at our company today 
that would have been incredibly hard or maybe even impossible just a few years ago. By 
challenging ourselves to continuously improve — and building our strength in the process 
— we have found that we are now capable of more than we understood.
DTE Energy is embracing its role as a transformational force, both in Michigan and in 
the other states in which we operate. The economic engine resides in the private sector 
and we need to harness that engine to the task of revitalizing our neighborhoods, 
strengthening our economy and rebuilding and broadening the middle class. We are fully 
committed to our aspiration to be a force for growth and prosperity in the communities 
where we live and serve.
Our commitment to be a force for growth also extends to environmental sustainability. 
For many years, the industry has viewed sustainability as a choice between affordability 
for customers and environmental outcomes. We reject that premise. Our work in environmental sustainability establishes DTE Energy as a leader without ever losing sight 
of our mission to provide safe, affordable and reliable energy to our customers. 
We accept the challenges before us with confidence because our success is grounded in 
the capabilities and determination of 10,000 DTE Energy employees who bring their best 
energy and focus to their work every day. As our company continues to grow stronger, 
we will apply that strength to becoming the best energy company in the world — and the 
best energy company for the world.CEO MessageCEO Message
A Force for Growth & Prosperity Across Michigan 2016-2017
DTE manages thousands of acres 
across the state to beneﬁt wildlife and provide natural habitat; 36 DTE 
sites are certiﬁed by the Wildlife 
Habitat Council
Supporting FIRST 
Robotics Challenge teams in 
schools around the state 
Partnered with the City of Detroit to upgrade all street lights to energy-efﬁcient LEDs, 
making Detroit the 
largest U.S. city with 100% public LED lighting
Planting wildﬂowers and grasses at our sites to beneﬁt pollinators like bees and butterﬂiesPlanted over 40,000 trees since 1998, in nearly 500 
Michigan communities, 
partnering with Michigan DNR
Generated more than 3.4 million MWh of renewable electricity in 2016, enough to power nearly 450,000 households
Replacing gas mains for 
long-term safety and reliability DTE Energy Foundation in 2016: 
$15 million in grants to 
360 nonproﬁts to lift up 
communities across Michigan$1.3 billion spent with Michigan-based companies in 2016 – creating 13,000 new jobs in Michigan since 2011
Gas storage and pipelines 
support delivery of reliable, 
affordable energy 
Improved electric reliability by 
70%  over the past two years
Volunteerism in 2016:
More than 21,000 volunteer 
hours, helping 300+ nonproﬁts 
across Michigan
This report, and our Corporate Citizenship Report Highlights document, are available for download at dtecitizenship.com.
Gerry Anderson  
DTE Energy Chairman and CEOOur Aspiration: To  
be the best-operated energy company in North America and a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve.Table of Contents
2016-2017 DTE Energy  
Corporate Citizenship  
Report  CEO Message 1
Engaged Employees Creating a Force for Growth 4
Safety  6
Employee Engagement 8
Diversity and Inclusion 10
Health and Wellness  14
Focusing on Customer Satisfaction  16
Measuring Customer Satisfaction 18
Reliability and Infrastructure  19
Serving Our Customers 22
Technology and Innovation 24
Cybersecurity 26
Energy Affordability 28
Serving our Communities as a Leading Corporate Citizen 30
Community Support 31
Jobs and Education 33
Neighborhoods 35
Public Safety 37
Driving Economic Progress 39
Energy Policy Leadership 44
Climate Change: Taking Action for the Future 46
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 47
Transformation of Electric Generation 50
Renewable Energy 53
Energy Efficiency  56
Environmental Leadership 58
Air Quality 59
Habitat and Biodiversity  60
Waste and Recycling  62
Water  66
Compliance 68
Our Company 70
Company Profile 71
Corporate Values and Priorities 7 4
Financial Performance 76
Governance 77Ethics 78Stakeholders 80
Stakeholder Engagement Summary 82
About Our Report 84
Materiality 85Reporting Principles  88
Management Approach 89
Performance Data 92
GRI Index 94Employees  page  4 Employees  page  5
Engaged Employees  
Creating a Force for GrowthTo realize our aspiration of being the best-operated energy company in North America, we rely on the capabilities of our nearly 10,000 DTE employees. As the energy industry undergoes significant change, DTE is building a workforce that will lead us into the future. Each and every accomplishment is due to the hard work and tenacity of dedicated DTE employees. 
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Employees  page  4Employees
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Our commitment to respect each 
other and create an engaged, inclusive environment goes beyond race and gender. We believe that a diverse workforce with a healthy mix of educational experiences, backgrounds, ages, cultures, religions, sexual orientation, abilities and personal interests expands our base of knowledge, skills and cross-cultural understanding. 
As of year-end 2016, DTE Energy 
employed nearly 10,000 people across all its businesses, plus an additional 750 contractors (7 percent of our workforce). Approximately 48 percent of DTE’s workforce is represented by unions under collective bargaining agreements. We respect our employees’ right to be represented by a labor union. We work together to promote productive relationships with our unions that consider the interests of our employees, customers and business. Non-represented employees are considered “at will” and the terms of their employment are guided by United States labor laws. There are several bargaining units for DTE Energy’s represented employees. The majority of our represented employees are under contracts that expire in 2017 and 2020.2016 Employee New Hires (by age)
2016 Employee Turnover (by age)Male
 67%Female 
33%2016 Employee New Hire
Male 
80%Female
 20%2016 Employee turnove r2016 Employee turnove r
57229
181
>50 30-50 <302016 Employee New Hire
267305
54
>50 30-50 <30         DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Employees  page  6 Employees  page  7In 2016, DTE Energy achieved its best safety performance in 
the company’s history. This accomplishment is a tribute to our corporate safety culture in which each employee is 200 percent accountable for safety 100 percent for themselves —and 100 percent for their team members. DTE leaders believe the measure of a company lies in its commitment to keeping employees safe. Knowing many of our employees face dangerous situations at work, we will continue to promote our strong safety culture and provide the tools and training necessary to ensure our employees return to their families safely each day.
Our excellent safety performance is particularly noteworthy in 
light of two significant events at DTE facilities during 2016:
• In July, a vehicle collision at the DTE Gas Allen Road Service Center in Melvindale, Mich., caused a natural gas line to rupture and explode. Four DTE employees and a security contractor were safely evacuated. As a precaution, about 1,500 nearby residents were evacuated for a short time. Through a combination of safety systems, emergency planning and quick employee response, there were no injuries and damage was minimal.
• The DTE Electric St. Clair Power Plant in East China Township, Mich., experienced a major fire in August. The facility was quickly evacuated and no one was injured. The facility underwent repairs and began generating electricity again in September 2016.Safety
DTE set an ambitious 
target to reach top decile safety performance by 2016. Compared to the peer utility companies, we reached the target by reducing our rate of injuries by nearly 40 percent — achieving the best safety record in our company’s 168-year history.Employees
Safety Awards and Recognition  
In 2016, DTE Energy gained admission 
into the National Safety Council’s Campbell Institute — a partnership of companies across a variety of industries that share best practices in environmental, health and safety performance. Companies are selected for their demonstrated commitment to employee safety and business excellence. 
DTE Gas also earned the Safety 
Achievement Award from the American Gas Association for 2016, the second consecutive year we have achieved this recognition.
Life Critical Standards
 
Our Life Critical Standards program 
provides a comprehensive toolkit to help employees carefully perform work and manage risk associated with some of our more dangerous tasks. These include controlling hazardous energy and high voltage, lifting and supporting heavy loads and vehicle safety. The standards also address working at heights or within trenches and enclosed spaces. Toolkits include stop cards, which are checklists that aid employees in determining critical phases of work. 0.00.60.91.21.5
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 20111.19 1.24
0.810.99
0.77
0.45
control of 
haza rdous 
energ y
hot
work
conﬁned
spac e 
entry
liftin g
and 
supporting 
loadsvehicl e
safety
trenching
and 
excav atingworking
at 
heightsLife
Critica lOccupational Safety and Health 
Administration (OSHA) Recordable Rate
In 2016, DTE Gas earned the Safety Achievement Award from the American Gas Association for the second consecutive year. 
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Employees  page  8 Employees  page  9Employees
Employee Engagement
At DTE Energy, our employees are the foundation of our company and the 
energy behind our operations. Throughout our company, we strive to maintain a positive, collaborative workplace environment where everyone feels valued. Employee engagement is a key enabler and driver to achieving our goal of being the best-operated energy company and a force for growth and prosperity in our communities. 
In 2016, our score on the Gallup employee engagement survey ranked in the 
90
th percentile among thousands of workplaces around the world. This is the 
highest employee engagement ranking we have ever received and a significant increase from the 86
th percentile in 2015. DTE has received the Gallup Great 
Workplace Award for the fourth year in a row. This award recognized us as an organization making engagement a fundamental core value of our business. We remain the only energy company to ever win this award. 
We use the Gallup survey to measure the success of our engagement efforts 
over time. Gallup is a global research and polling company helping organizations boost organic growth through measurement tools, strategic advice and education.2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 200790th
percentileEmployee Engagement Gallup RankingCareer Development  
In the next five years, more than one-fourth of DTE Energy employees will be eligible for retirement. The future of the company will depend on our ability to transfer knowledge to a younger generation through training programs and skills development. 
DTE Energy is preparing for these changes by ensuring our current 
workforce is ready for this transition. We have invested heavily in developing our people by establishing our Foundational Capabilities Curriculum, which defines the training, skills and development employees need for success within the company. Training is provided through Aspire, DTE’s learning platform. It includes a combination of web-based and classroom courses. The Foundational Capabilities Curriculum covers topics within the following categories: safety fundamentals, engagement skills, customer focus, continuous improvement, project management, supplier performance management, asset maintenance, strong leadership and business acumen. 
When our employees continue their education and become more 
skilled in their trade or profession, all our stakeholders benefit. For these reasons, DTE supports employees in their professional development by providing financial assistance through our education tuition reimbursement program.Our FUEL event series is an exciting element of our new “power up” onboarding process for recent DTE Energy recruits. It is designed as a creative way to welcome and engage new hires. In 2016, we held the first-ever FUEL event to provide new employees a unique opportunity to learn about our company’s culture directly from senior leadership. At this dynamic event, senior leaders shared anecdotes about their own careers, provided insights into the future direction of our industry and business, and discussed the importance of continuous improvement. The inaugural event highlighted the enthusiastic participation of several DTE Energy executives. DTE will host FUEL events quarterly so new employees can gain better insight into company values and feel connected to our team. FUEL Event Engages 
New Employees
 2016 Foundational Capability Training
3,124  
employeesNumber of  
course completions  
14,169  
completionsTraining hours completed 
50,772  
hoursNumber of individuals who completed courses 
1,142   
leaders, managers and directorsIn April 2017, DTE was named a Gallup Great Workplace for the fourth consecutive year.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Employees  page  1074947004543
>50 30-50 <30         Employees
Diversity and Inclusion
DTE Energy has a rich history of 
working to create a diverse and inclusive workplace. We know unique backgrounds and experiences lead to more engaged employees. It is the responsibility of each DTE employee to keep diversity and inclusion at the forefront of what we do. This means embracing the differences in our life experiences, cultures, personal interests, ways of thinking and individual strengths. When we embrace diversity, we deepen our understanding of one another and improve our ability to serve our customers in our communities.
Fostering an inclusive environment 
— actively seeking opportunities for collaboration, inviting healthy discussion of new ideas and seeking to understand others by being curious and interested — catalyzes our priority for continuous improvement and contributes to our company’s employee engagement.
DTE’s recruiting and outreach efforts 
focus on ensuring our workforce is skilled, talented and reflective of our customer base. We actively support programs to encourage young students from a wide range of geographical, cultural and socioeconomic backgrounds to pursue academic programs related to science, DTE Workforce Demographics (by age) 
Race/ethnicity
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Employees  page  11technology, engineering and math 
(STEM). We strive to raise awareness and promote education around technical and skilled trade careers in the energy sector.
In 2016, DTE Energy sponsored a 
Coalition of Minority Professional Engineering Societies (COMPES) career development conference and job fair designed to help bring women and underrepresented groups into STEM-related jobs. We believe that building partnerships with organizations like COMPES will help us develop robust talent pipelines and recruit talented individuals.
DTE Energy was ranked third among 
utility companies in the 2016 rankings published by DiversityInc. The ranking recognized our strong efforts to hire, retain and promote women, minorities, people with disabilities, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer individuals.
Americ an Indian or 
Alask an Nativ e 
.05%Hispanic/Latino 
2.7%Asian, Nativ e Ha waiian,
other P aciﬁc Islander
2.7%
Two or
more races 
.06%
Black or
African Americ an 
21%
Whit e 73%Male
74%Female
26%
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Employees  page  12 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Employees  page  13Veterans  
The Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency has named DTE Energy a Gold-Level 
Veteran-Friendly employer. This distinction is reserved for employers who commit to military veteran recruitment, training and retention. To make it easier for veterans to identify career opportunities at DTE, our company careers website contains military occupational codes and translates the codes into open positions at DTE. In 2016, 11 percent of our external hires were veterans. 
Supporting Individuals with Disabilities  
DTE believes we all have a role to play in breaking down employment barriers 
that individuals with disabilities face when pursuing a career. Each October, we participate in the National Disability Employment Awareness Month to highlight disability employment issues and celebrate the many contributions of American workers with disabilities. 
In 2016, we continued our efforts to create a more accessible work environment 
for people with disabilities by complying with Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) regulations. We have improved elevator access and added ADA-designated seating in the cafeteria. We  facilitated the use of new accessibility features in our recently upgraded software to make it easier for visually impaired individuals to obtain information from websites. We distributed braille business cards to visually impaired individuals at career fairs, increased ADA parking for visitors and employees and included ADA contact information in communications to new hires and job candidates. 
In 2017, we are re-launching our employee resource group that is focused on 
raising awareness for, and supporting, workers with disabilities.At DTE Energy, affinity and resource groups have been a long-standing part of our culture, serving as forums for individuals to share experiences, network and develop their careers. We continue to promote our eight resource groups who meet routinely to exchange knowledge and ideas to enhance their work experience, encourage personal and professional growth and support our business goals. In 2016, we re-launched our resource groups as “energy groups” with additional support to drive deeper engagement.
One such energy group, Veteran  
Empowerment Transition and Support 
(VETS), is designed to support employees and members of the veteran community. VETS aims to foster a strong community network of leaders within DTE Energy who can advocate for the recruitment, development and retention of veterans. Veteran Empowerment, 
Transition and Support  
Program
Energy Groups at DTE
AMEA - Asian and 
Middle Eastern American
DAWG - Disabilities 
Awareness Working 
Group
POP - Power of PrideREACH - Respecting 
Ethnic and Cultural 
Heritage
Somos  - Energy Group 
for Hispanic/Latino 
employees
Surge - DTE Young 
ProfessionalsVETS - Veteran 
Empowerment, 
Transition and Support
Women at DTEDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Employees  page  14 Employees  page  15
Across our organization, DTE Energy promotes a healthy work environment 
and helps our employees pursue healthy lifestyles. Our company-wide wellness program, Energize Your Life (EYL), offers many avenues of support for employees seeking to maintain or improve their health. We encourage our employees, retirees and family members to get appropriate health screenings and to follow guidelines for avoiding chronic diseases. Through EYL, we offer a variety of innovative and informative programs and services to make healthy living easier, including:
• Opportunities to learn more about their health through annual physicals and a health assessment
• Health and wellness programs to help them manage stress, lose weight, get active, eat better, manage chronic conditions and more
• Rewards for completing healthy activities  
To support a healthy and active culture, we have fitness campaigns and challenges offering incentives throughout the year to promote movement, good nutrition and healthy lifestyle choices. Our cafeterias offer healthy food and nutritional information. Many of our facilities include exercise rooms. Employees
Health and Wellness 
DTE Energy 
promotes a healthy work environment and helps our employees pursue healthy lifestyles.In January 2016, we opened a state-of-the-art health and wellness center at 
our Detroit headquarters complex. We partnered with two of the most highly respected and recognized performance and health teams in the country — EXOS and the Henry Ford Health System — to provide our employees with industry-leading approaches to overall physical health and the best medical care.
• The Fitness Zone offers one-on-one coaching with fitness experts and personal counseling with a nutrition specialist or dietitian. The workout facilities include a recovery area with healthy pre and post-workout food options. Group exercise classes are provided, including spin and yoga, as well as recreational sports such as basketball and volleyball.
• The Health Zone, our onsite medical center, offers basic primary care, occupational health services, first aid and on-site physical therapy. We also offer flu shots and discounted over-the-counter medications.  
This investment in physical and mental well-being is grounded in our belief that healthy employees are more productive, engaged and energetic at work and at home.Customers  page  16 Customers  page  17Focusing on Customer 
Satisfaction 
Serving our customers is the number one priority at DTE Energy. We work tirelessly to provide our customers with safe, reliable and affordable energy. Our customer base is extensive and diverse. DTE Electric and DTE Gas serve millions of households, businesses and organizations throughout Michigan, while our non-utility businesses provide energy supplies and related services to industrial customers around the United States. Every interaction is an opportunity to exceed our customers’ expectations. 
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Customers
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017DTE’s utility businesses supply energy to our customers through 47,000 miles of electric distribution lines and 21,000 miles of gas pipelines.
DTE Electric Service Area
DTE Gas Service AreaOverlapping Gas & Electric Service Area
Our Utility Operations in MichiganDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Customers  page  18 Customers  page  19Customers
Measuring Customer Satisfaction
DTE Energy’s ongoing efforts to continuously improve our products, programs 
and processes, with a stellar customer experience, have resulted in significant improvements in customer satisfaction since 2007. DTE measures customer satisfaction with our utility businesses through J.D. Power — a global marketing information company that represents the voice of the customer — and their extensive consumer studies in the utility industry.
We rank second in J.D. Power customer satisfaction scores for both gas and 
electric residential customers in the Midwest. Our goal is to be number one and maintain that position. We recognize the most significant factor in achieving that ranking from our electric customers is through improving reliability. We have made significant investments and they are paying off. In 2016, we had our best reliability performance in the past decade. We continue to communicate with our customers to raise awareness of the full range of services and community benefits that DTE Energy provides.
Customers
Reliability and Infrastructure 
DTE Electric  
We understand how much our customers depend on the electricity we provide. We’re always working to improve the 7,600 square miles of our electrical service area to deliver energy customers can count on. 
In 2016, we replaced utility poles, installed smart grid sensors and continued to 
proactively trim trees near power lines. The result was an improved reliability for our customers as we keep the lights on at homes and businesses. Compared to 2014, reliability for our customers improved 70 percent and rates remained below the national average.
In 2016, DTE Energy:
• Began construction on four new state-of-the-art substations and upgraded 
equipment in many other substations to prepare for increased customer demand in fast-growing areas. 
• Upgraded equipment on over 200 customer-serving circuits and replaced approximately 3,000 utility poles to strengthen reliability. We’re using new designs and materials that can better withstand Michigan’s severe weather, ultimately reducing power outages.
• Installed more than 3,500 new smart grid sensors and other smart grid devices. Smart grid upgrades will help us pinpoint the locations and extent of outages quickly. New technologies identify and diagnose equipment issues early so we can service them proactively, preventing many outages before they occur.
• Trimmed 650,000 trees. Toppled trees and branches are responsible for two-thirds of the time DTE customers spend without power. Recently trimmed areas have seen reliability improve significantly.
• Substantially finished a multi-year installation of more than 2.4 million electric smart meters. Smart meters allow customers to monitor energy use through the DTE Insight App. In conjunction with the DTE Energy Bridge, our customers can monitor electricity use in real time and find ways to conserve energy.  In March 2017, DTE 
experienced the worst weather-related outage in the company’s history. Near hurricane-force winds pounded the state for nearly 12 hours, leaving 800,000 customers without power.  
Along with a full contingent of our own crews, DTE brought in crews from seven states to restore power as quickly as possible. Customers affected by this storm were restored at an unprecedented rate of recovery considering the magnitude of the storm. Both DTE and its community partners rallied to support those without power, providing supplies to warming centers and going door-to-door in many neighborhoods to ensure the safety of residents.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Customers  page  20 Customers  page  21
We made great progress in 2016, but our work is not done. We’re committed 
to implementing additional infrastructure upgrades that will result in stronger reliability and peace of mind for our customers. By taking actions to modernize our grid, we are creating a smarter, more reliable system to prepare for Michigan’s energy needs today and in the future.  
  
Like most energy companies, DTE Energy tracks service reliability using the Reliability Duration Index, also known as the System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI). SAIDI measures the average length of time in minutes that a customer is without power over the course of a year. DTE is working to reduce the average length of power outages by building a stronger, smarter electrical grid. As we provide more reliable service for our customers, the score on the reliability index will grow smaller. In 2016, we reduced our SAIDI index to 239 minutes — the lowest level in 10 years.
Tree Trimming  
DTE recognizes the value of trees in our communities, both for habitat 
conservation and aesthetics. As part of our continuing journey toward becoming the best-operated energy company in North America, DTE Energy is renewing its emphasis on tree trimming near our power lines. 
Trees are a source of tremendous pride, but they are one of the main causes of 
power outages. Trees that come into contact with power lines also pose potential safety concerns. In 2016, DTE Energy trimmed trees along 3,348 miles of circuits. Areas trimmed under the enhanced program in 2016 experienced a 78 percent reduction in tree-related outage minutes. Customer complaints filed with the Michigan Public Service Commission went down by 83 percent.Customers
606
472582793
277239
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011Reliability Duration Index (minutes) DTE Gas  
Maintaining a safe and reliable natural gas system is a commitment we take very seriously. The energy we provide is used to heat schools, hospitals, police and fire departments, homes and businesses. 
DTE Gas continuously strives to meet 
or exceed all federal, state and local guidelines for safety, inspections and operations of our pipeline system in Michigan. We have completed all required inspections of our transmission pipelines and voluntarily expanded our program to inspect three times more transmission pipeline miles than required by regulation. 
Public safety is extremely important to 
us. We maintain the safety and reliability of our natural gas pipeline system through a comprehensive program of inspections, maintenance and upgrades.
Over the next 25 years, DTE Gas is 
upgrading gas mains and service lines to advanced plastic materials, to maintain safe and reliable service for our customers. DTE upgraded 100 miles of main in 2016 and 290 miles of service lines. We plan to modernize another 140 miles of main and 320 miles of service lines annually now through 2021. Along the way, we are also moving indoor gas meters to an outside location so we can provide customers with safer, less intrusive service. By installing new advanced metering technology, we can increase remote data sensing, reduce operating costs and maintain affordable customer rates.
We conduct more than 300,000 gas 
meter safety inspections every year to ensure safe and reliable operation. In addition, we survey nearly 10,000 miles of pipeline annually, verifying there are no natural gas leaks in the system that serves our customers. 
In our gas storage operations, DTE 
Energy maintains storage wells in adherence with strict state standards and specifications to protect public health and safety. We use remote data monitoring and on-site inspections to continuously monitor the performance of each well. We also perform regular corrosion assessments and pressure testing as well as annual groundwater monitoring to detect and address any methane leakage. 
Over the next five years, 
we plan on investing $1.6 billion in our natural gas infrastructure. This will help fund the ongoing modernization of our main pipelines and installation of new service lines to homes and businesses. DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Customers  page  22We know our customers’ expectations are changing 
and we must too. All DTE employees take pride and ownership in delivering highly satisfied customer experiences.
In 2016, our customer outreach teams worked with 
community partner organizations throughout Michigan to plan and implement 18 Customer Assistance Days, which provided on-site, in-person customer service. These events provided an opportunity for low and limited income residents to apply for energy assistance, obtain energy efficiency information and learn about related human services.
DTE’s Customer Experience Initiative focuses on our 
customers’ needs to ensure they have consistent, positive experiences with DTE, no matter how they do business with us. Customers are able to choose from a variety of self-service options available for accessing their account information and interacting with DTE, including the DTE Energy Mobile App. This app provides a convenient way for customers to manage their accounts. In just a few clicks, customers can pay bills, compare their monthly energy usage or report/track an outage. It is compatible with iOS and Android smart phones and can be used on iPads and Android tablets.
Learn more about our customer energy efficiency 
programs and Low Income Self-Sufficiency Plan. Customers
Serving Our Customers
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Customers  page  23DTE Energy’s MIGreenPower Program 
DTE Energy is continuously working to help customers to use clean energy. In 2017, the company launched MIGreenPower™ to address our customer’s demand for a more flexible and affordable alternative to installing renewable equipment at their homes or businesses. MIGreenPower™ provides customers a convenient way to reduce their carbon footprint by supporting power from wind and solar farms — two of the most affordable renewable energy sources available. 
Energy for the program is sourced from the Pinnebog Wind Park, located in Huron 
County, and three solar arrays located in Detroit and Lapeer. By subscribing to MIGreenPower™, customers pay a modest premium to support development of additional renewable generation resources in Michigan. Participation in this voluntary program is open to all DTE Energy business and residential electric customers.Energy Efficiency Services for Business Customers
Our Energy Partnership group provides support to DTE’s largest customers for energy efficiency projects, both for electricity and gas usage. DTE Energy engineers develop and manage global energy monitoring programs for Michigan-headquartered companies, using the same software we employ at DTE Energy’s own facilities around the country. For the small to medium-sized customer, our Energy Partnership group conducts facility assessments and provides recommendations of best practices for both gas and electric services.
In 2016, our customers across the United States achieved $15 million in energy savings 
through the work of our Energy Partnership teams. We further identified over $100 million in energy savings projects for future implementation.A Grassroots Approach to Customer Service
The “I Can Help!” program makes it possible for any DTE employee to assist customers whose concerns have not been resolved through our normal customer service processes. When a customer comes to any DTE employee with an unresolved question or concern about their service, that employee can immediately respond by referring the customer’s issue to the “I Can Help!” program. DTE employees can use their smartphones, tablets or home computers to submit an “I Can Help!” escalation request. From there, our Executive Customer Assistance Center follows up with customers to resolve their issue. 
In 2016, our customer 
outreach teams worked with community partner organizations throughout Michigan to organize and implement 18 Customer Assistance Days, which provided on-site, in-person customer service. These events provided an opportunity for low and limited income residents to apply for energy assistance, obtain energy efficiency information and learn about related human services.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Customers  page  24 Customers  page  25DTE Insight App  
The DTE Insight App is a mobile app providing customers with real-time 
home energy usage data by connecting their home’s advanced meter to their smartphone. Our customers can use this data to make decisions about home energy usage — from heating and cooling, to the use of appliances and even home weatherization. The app can help customers save energy and reduce their bills.
Since the DTE Insight App became available to iPhone and Android users in 
summer 2014, more than 115,000 households have downloaded it onto 245,000 devices. The number of residential customers using it in 2016 doubled from the previous year.
The DTE Insight App encourages and enables customers to save energy by 
changing their behavior, utilizing the following sophisticated tools:
• Historical tracking allows customers to see how much energy they use each day, week and month. Over time they can analyze energy trends and progress. 
• Target setting helps customers set energy usage goals and track their consumption as they approach their energy target.
• Dashboard view gives customers continuous insight into their home’s energy efficiency and performance. 
• Tips and challenges provides customers with helpful ideas and challenges to inspire energy reduction and savings.  
Customers can also obtain a free DTE Energy Bridge that provides real-time monitoring of home energy usage. Our analysis shows that, on average, residential customers using the DTE Insight App reduce their electricity usage by an estimated 2 percent. By using the DTE Energy Bridge, the energy reduction improves an average of five percent, with some users achieving up to 10 percent.  Customers
Technology and Innovation
Smart Meters  
Smart meter technology is a system upgrade that uses secure, low-frequency radio transmissions to send electricity and gas usage data without the need for a manual meter reading. Over the last several years, DTE Energy has been installing smart meters across Michigan to ensure our customers have a safe, secure technology that connects directly to their DTE Energy online profiles. This technology allows our customers to better manage their energy usage and lower their bills. Our goal is to convert all DTE Electric meters by the end of 2017 and all DTE Gas meters by the end of 2022. We are on track to meet these goals. Currently we stand at 98 percent completion for DTE Electric and 90 percent for DTE Gas.
Smart meters support technology that brings a wide range of benefits and 
services to customers. The new technology allows DTE Energy to:
• Improve reliability by quickly identifying and addressing power outages and other service problems.
• Virtually eliminate estimated bills through automated meter reading.
• Remotely connect and disconnect residential electric service which means faster, less intrusive service.
• Reduce operating costs and thereby limit future rate increases.Customers who use 
the DTE Insight App together with the DTE Energy Bridge are achieving reductions in their energy use by up to 10 percent.
Electric 
321,426
2,517,959
98%Installed in 2016
Total Completed
% Completed
Gas
92,733
933,522
90%Installed in 2016
Total Completed
% CompletedSmart MeteringDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Customers  page  26 Customers  page  27Customers
Protecting the integrity of our computing networks and information has 
become increasingly important with the rise of concerns about potential malware and data breaches. We take these threats very seriously. DTE Energy has invested in developing a robust Information Protection & Security (IPS) group to ensure that we are fully addressing cybersecurity issues. IPS works to continually maintain and enhance appropriate safeguards to protect critical corporate assets. Protecting information assets from unauthorized access, disclosure, modification or destruction helps ensure that DTE does not suffer loss of customer confidence, market share or competitive advantage. By using a defensive, multi-level approach, we are able to secure our customer’s data and other critical digital infrastructure.
In recent years, technology advancements have allowed us to improve our 
customer service by introducing online platforms and electronic databases to streamline our information management systems. To protect our customer’s personal information, we take a proactive stance on the cybersecurity risks associated with new technologies. We participate in numerous state and industry-specific cybersecurity initiatives and adhere to the Michigan Public Service Commission privacy rules and our own information security policy. We perform security assessments of our suppliers and take measures to ensure the safety and security of our smart meter network.Cybersecurity
In 2016, we 
received no complaints concerning breaches of customer data privacy.Our best line of defense for information protection and security is our employees. 
Internal message boards and other employee communications periodically remind the entire workforce about the importance of defensive measures such as strong passwords and proper email security. We provide mandatory, annual security awareness training to deliver a consistent message. Employees must be aware of potential cyber risks in their daily lives and know how to counteract those risks.
Infrastructure Protection  
We also ensure that DTE operations maintain full compliance with federal rules 
for safeguarding critical infrastructure, which includes our system of electricity generation and distribution. We have strong policies and programs in place to ensure the complex network of controls delivering electricity across our system is not compromised.
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Customers  page  28$1,347$1,260
DTE Electric U.S. AverageDTE Energy is committed to keeping 
energy affordable for our customers. Reasonable electric rates, for businesses as well as residential customers, contribute to the strength and competitiveness of Michigan’s economy. We will continue investing in new, cleaner generation to meet our environmental targets and customer expectations, while maintaining and enhancing reliability. We are aggressively pursuing continuous improvement in productivity and efficiency to ensure continued energy affordability for our customers. 
The Michigan Public Service 
Commission approved an electric rate increase in 2016 that will support our efforts to repair and modernize our aging infrastructure. This rate increase is necessary to enable delivery of reliable, safe energy to our customers.
For our residential customers, annual 
bills tend to be a better measure of affordability than rates alone. DTE Electric residential customers’ electric bills are 6 percent below the national average. For our industrial customers that compete on a global or regional scale and have energy-intensive  Customers
Energy Affordability
manufacturing processes, competitive electric rates are especially important. From 2013 through July 2016, DTE Electric industrial rates declined 19 percent and are now below the national average.
For residential and business customers 
of DTE Gas, we have lowered prices steadily since 2008. This reflects the substantial increase in natural gas supply in the United States. In addition, Michigan’s unique geology allows us to buy large quantities of natural gas when prices are low and store it underground until it is needed during cold winter months. This gives DTE customers price stability. The average bill for gas customers is 24 percent lower today than it was 10 years ago.
We encourage our customers to take 
advantage of our residential energy efficiency programs. In 2015, we reached more than 560,000 electric and almost 300,000 gas customers to help lower their natural gas and electric bills.
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Customers  page  29Low Income Self-Sufficiency Plan  
While unemployment rates have improved in Michigan, there are still many people struggling to pay their bills. Roughly 16 percent of Michigan residents live below the poverty line. However, government funding for low-income customer assistance has been declining. Approximately 117,500 DTE customers received some kind of energy assistance in 2016.
DTE Energy pioneered an innovative program called the Low 
Income Self-Sufficiency Plan (LSP) to help economically stressed customers bridge the gap between extreme-weather energy bills and reduced government aid. This proactive, year-round assistance program helps customers budget for their energy payments, avoid service interruptions during hard times and puts them on a path to self-sufficiency.
Under DTE’s LSP, customers who enroll are required to pay a fixed 
amount every month based on income and energy use. Their unpaid bill totals are frozen and reduced quarterly with successful payment compliance. Customers on the plan receive home energy assessment services to assist in weatherizing and improving energy efficiency.
During 2015-2016, 35,000 customers enrolled in the LSP and 84 
percent successfully stayed on the plan. Only one percent of our LSP customers experienced a service disconnect during the program year. We expect to grow the enrollment to about 50,000 customers in 2017.DTE Energy understands the importance of energy in our customers’ daily lives. That’s why we work with government agencies and community organizations to bring energy and payment assistance to low-income residents. We believe it is our responsibility to protect our customers from the dangers and financial impact associated with extreme temperatures that occur in Michigan.
By partnering with agencies like United Way 
and The Heat and Warmth Fund (THAW), we’re able to provide ongoing relief to our most vulnerable customers and help them reduce energy-related expenses throughout the year.
DTE helped bridge the gap to help its 
most vulnerable customers — the elderly, unemployed, underemployed and disabled customers across Michigan — who struggle to pay their utility bills. With $11 million in donations in 2016 from the DTE Energy Foundation and DTE Energy to THAW and United Way, we were able to keep the lights and heat on for these customers.Partnering with The Heat 
and Warmth Fund and United Way
DTE Energy offers BudgetWise Billing and Flexible Due Date options for customers to more easily manage their bills and make affordable payments. Average Yearly Residential Electric BillsServing our 
Communities as a Leading Corporate CitizenDTE Energy builds strong relationships with people in the communities where we live and serve. This connection extends beyond our business operations. We believe it is our responsibility to help protect and shape a prosperous future for our communities. Our employees live this belief by dedicating their time, skills and energy to organizations throughout Michigan.
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Community  page  30
Community SupportCommunity
DTE Energy Foundation  
The DTE Energy Foundation awarded 
nearly $15 million during 2016 to 360 nonprofit organizations to positively impact communities throughout the state. 
We believe it is our responsibility to 
sustain and protect Michigan’s legacy — from its cultural institutions to its beautiful natural environment — and help build its future. Our support allows people and communities to flourish — making the homes where we live and the neighborhoods where our children play much safer. We provide educational opportunities and create jobs to ensure a strong quality of life for all Michigan residents.
Basic Needs and Education   
We are focused on making sure 
basic needs are met so people and communities can thrive through our partnerships with human service organizations like United Way and American Red Cross. We want to ensure people have affordable housing through Habitat for Humanity of Michigan and provide access to food through Kids’ Food Basket. We help preserve and protect Michigan’s natural resources with The Nature Conservancy. When basic needs are met, children, students and young adults can focus on education and work opportunities. The DTE Energy Foundation provides hands-on learning opportunities through FIRST in Michigan — a nonprofit organization establishing robotics teams and competitions throughout high schools in Michigan. We also support summer work experiences for youth through United Way Lakeshore and Grow Detroit’s Young Talent. 
Community and Business Development 
From our neighborhoods to our businesses, we are helping to ensure people take pride in where they live, work and play. We support organizations focused on innovation through entrepreneurship, increasing economic growth and strengthening and developing businesses throughout Michigan. The foundation supports the Downtown Detroit Partnership, Endeavor Detroit, Ann Arbor SPARK and the Michigan Hispanic Fund for their continued efforts in our communities. 
Arts, Culture and Diversity  
The DTE Energy Foundation recognizes 
the role arts, culture and diversity play in enriching lives and communities. We support events like ArtPrize in Grand Rapids, the National Cherry Festival in 
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Community  page  31A few examples of the great 
work supported by the  
DTE Energy Foundation  
in 2016:
Partnership with Conservation Resource Alliance in Traverse City for its River Care Program. Over the next 
three years, this grant will help build trail bridges, remove barriers, improve aquatic habitat and enhance recreational access to northwest Michigan waterways.
ArtPrize in Grand Rapids.  
We provided sponsorship 
support for this three-week art competition that celebrates artists from around the world and draws nearly 400,000 visitors to Grand Rapids and the surrounding region.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Community  page  32 Community  page  33
Traverse City, the Detroit Tree Lighting, 
the GRandJazzFest in Grand Rapids and Detroit Jazz Festival. Our support also extends to the Sphinx Organization and the Detroit Symphony Orchestra in order to enhance and promote diversity within the arts. 
We also provide support for Autism 
Alliance, Michigan Women’s Foundation and the Arab-American Chaldean Chamber.
Corporate Giving  
DTE Energy provides support to 
organizations across the state. With our $2.5 million donation to The Heat and Warmth Fund (THAW), the company is committed to being a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve.
United Way  
In 2016, DTE Energy employees, retirees 
and the DTE Energy Foundation collectively pledged nearly $2.35 million to improve lives and support communities through United Way. Through charitable giving, our company supports more than 40 United Ways across Michigan.
Volunteerism  
Volunteerism is integrated into DTE 
Jobs and EducationCommunity
DTE Energy supports a wide range of education and employment initiatives, 
with a particular focus on revitalizing the skilled trades and technical education pipeline in Michigan. We are implementing programs that support summer work and high school internships, introducing young people to professional and skilled trade careers. Over time, these initiatives will be integrated into broader professional development and mentorship programs that connect students to specific training, apprenticeships and employment opportunities. 
We work with public schools, community colleges and the State of Michigan 
to prepare students, veterans and experienced workers for careers in the energy sector. We develop programming — in partnership with universities and community colleges throughout Michigan — that includes specialized energy courses and apprenticeship training programs. These initiatives are critical for our long-term business success. They also provide tremendous economic and social benefits for our communities.
Summer Jobs Program   
In 2016, the DTE Energy Foundation provided nearly $900,000 in grants to 
fund nearly 600 summer work opportunities with more than 50 nonprofits in and around Detroit and Greater Michigan. We provided funding for these employment programs through the following partnerships:
•  Grow Detroit’s Young Talent supported jobs for nearly 400 people 
between the ages of 14 and 24 who are working in Detroit.
• City Connect Detroit supported 75 summer jobs for youth in Pontiac, Inkster, Ypsilanti and Highland Park.
• United Way Lakeshore paid wages for 100 youth enrolled in the summer program on the west side of the state, in Muskegon, Newaygo, Oceana, Kent, Mecosta and Lake Counties.  
Since 2003, the DTE Energy Foundation has donated more than $4.5 million to support summer employment initiatives, impacting more than 2,000 young people.Energy’s workplace culture, representing a direct employee connection to our corporate citizenship efforts. Volunteering provides opportunities for employees to develop leadership skills, connect with colleagues who have similar interests across the enterprise, build relationships and use their unique skills to help others. We are harnessing the energy and expertise of our 10,000 employees for volunteer efforts that have a real impact across Michigan.
In 2016, we rolled out a skills-based 
volunteer initiative to complement our DTE Care Force volunteer program. Through DTE Care Force, our employees leveraged their knowledge and professional abilities to support volunteer projects that positively impacted nonprofits and community programs. 
DTE Care Force seeks to connect 
employee volunteers to communities in a sustainable and meaningful way. During 2016, more than 2,300 employees participated in company-sponsored volunteer events including DTE’s flagship programs — Holiday Meals on Wheels, Arbor Day and our first annual Month of Caring in August. DTE employees volunteered over 21,000 hours to more than 300 organizations in 2016. DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Community  page  34 Community  page  35
FIRST in Michigan  
Students throughout Michigan are seeing firsthand how dedicated DTE 
employees are to the youth in our communities and the future of the energy industry. Many employees share their passion, expertise and time by volunteering with the Michigan chapter of For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology (FIRST). FIRST in Michigan is a group of programs including FIRST Robotics, FIRST Tech Challenge and FIRST Lego League. These programs help prepare young people for their careers.
DTE Energy has been involved with FIRST for more than 10 years and provides 
support for more than 50 Michigan teams in the FIRST Tech Challenge and nine Michigan teams for the FIRST Robotics Challenge. As part of our continuing efforts to be a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve, we are increasing our presence with existing teams and supporting the development of new teams focused on girls and at-risk youth. Volunteers guide and mentor students through the process and provide support at competition events.
NeighborhoodsCommunity
In recent years, DTE has been actively revitalizing the neighborhood surrounding our downtown Detroit headquarters. The landscape is changing and the streets are more alive as pedestrians and bikers travel to downtown businesses, restaurants, renovated buildings and residences. Other initiatives we have supported to benefit our hometown community, our employees and our local customers are highlighted below.
LED Street Lights for a Brighter City  
DTE’s leading project management organization facilitated the City of Detroit’s 
Public Lighting Authority (PLA) project to install 65,000 new energy efficient light-emitting diode (LED) street lights. The dream of relighting the city began in 2012, when less than 50 percent of the city’s street lights were functioning and Detroit residents needed a greater sense of security. DTE worked with state and local governments to help draft legislation to create the PLA — a separate entity with the mission of improving, modernizing and maintaining Detroit’s street lighting infrastructure with brighter, more reliable and energy-efficient lights. When the project was completed in December 2016, Detroit became the largest city in the United States to have 100 percent public LED lighting.
Detroit Solar Park  
In 2016, we partnered with the City of Detroit to break ground on one of the 
largest urban solar power arrays in the country. The Detroit solar park is housed on surplus city-owned property and is expected to generate more than $1 million in tax revenue for the city over the life of the 20-year lease. It will also produce enough clean energy to power approximately 450 homes. The facility is scheduled to come on line during the summer of 2017.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Community  page  36 Community  page  37DTE’s New Public Park  
As part of our ongoing efforts to invest in the local community, DTE Energy is 
developing a 1.5 acre park along the western edge of downtown Detroit. The new park, opening in 2017, will help spur economic development in the area and provide a place for the enjoyment for those who live, work and play in Detroit.Part of the park development includes a year-round restaurant featuring a sustainable green roof designed to conserve and collect runoff water and a large roof-deck offering panoramic views of the city.
Open Streets Detroit  
The DTE Energy Foundation teamed up with the Downtown Detroit Partnership 
in 2016 to host Open Streets Detroit — a unique opportunity for individuals and families to experience the streets of Detroit by engaging in healthy, recreational and cultural activities. As part of the event, a four-mile route was closed to vehicles to allow for a variety of free community activities including: dance workshops, cycling events, exercise classes, sporting events, dog training classes and children’s activities.
Supporting Project Green Light  
DTE Energy is providing incentives for businesses participating in the City 
of Detroit’s Project Green Light, a public safety partnership. Detroit-based businesses can receive special rebates and no-interest financing when they install qualifying energy-efficient lighting systems. Project Green Light participating businesses saw a 50 percent reduction in violent crime during 2016. DTE’s support of this program helps improve neighborhood safety and promote local economic growth.
Emergency Preparedness  
DTE responds with urgency to all electrical interruptions. Restoration efforts begin with the earliest forecast of severe weather. Crews and support staff prepare to work around-the-clock. When storms cause catastrophic damage, restoration crews from other energy companies in the region as well as local contractors assist DTE as needed. Likewise, when storms cause major outages in areas outside of Michigan, DTE reciprocates by sending crews to help local utilities in restoration efforts.
During storm conditions, whenever the number of reported hazards exceeds 
the number of restoration crews available for dispatch, we activate Public Protection teams — DTE Energy employees trained in procedures to help protect the public from potentially hazardous wires. If there is a high risk of public contact from a downed wire, a Wire Guard team is the first to arrive to tape and secure the site, which may then be guarded by a Public Protection team until restoration crews arrive. During 2016, we dispatched a total of 1,289 Wire Guard teams to prevent potentially dangerous conditions. Public Protection is a vital service our employees provide to customers and communities during storms. It is a key way we live our core value of safety as a company. 
In addition to our utilities’ public safety focus, we need to be prepared for any 
emergency that could severely impact our operations, our employees and the delivery of energy to our customers. Our business planning practices address all types of contingencies — from weather-related reliability challenges to extremely low probability events like criminal attacks or catastrophic failures. DTE Energy has a strategy for maintaining communications and restoring services in response to any emergency. We strive to identify potential risks and prevent emergencies from happening or at least minimize their impact.
Our emergency plans address issues such as electrical and natural gas safety, 
protection from cyberattacks and maintaining the safety and integrity of our nuclear facilities and coal ash management structures.Public SafetyCommunityDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Community  page  39 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Community  page  38Nuclear Safety  
At our Fermi 2 Power Plant, we continue to implement corrective and 
preventive maintenance strategies to ensure the highest standards of nuclear safety. In 2016, we invested in a series of industrial safety improvements including new safety gear for employees and upgrades to plant lighting.
In 2016, Fermi 2 Power Plant received its license renewal from the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). The renewal permits the power plant to continue generating electricity until 2045. The NRC approved the license renewal request after more than two years of extensive technical and environmental reviews.
To ensure continued safety and to comply with NRC regulations, 
Fermi 2 Power Plant’s emergency plans are tested regularly. In 2016, nearly 300 participants — including DTE Energy personnel and representatives of nearly 30 federal, state and local agency partners — were involved in an exercise of the plant’s emergency response plan. The NRC found that the emergency plan and response by plant personnel demonstrated protection of public health and safety. The NRC noted the exercise was challenging, well-managed and that plant personnel executed their roles well.In July, a vehicle driven by a Michigan resident crashed through protective barriers at our Allen Road Service Center in Melvindale, Mich. The crash ruptured a natural gas line and caused an explosion and fire. The only injury was to the driver of the car. Four DTE Gas employees and a security contractor were safely evacuated from the service center. The incident, which occurred around 3 a.m., also caused the evacuation of about 1,500 nearby residents as a precaution. There were no major outages for DTE’s natural gas and electric customers.
Our pipeline technology worked as 
designed and quickly closed a valve to the ruptured gas line that shut off the source of the fire. In addition, DTE Gas personnel and first responders from the Dearborn Fire Department had participated in an emergency training exercise two weeks prior, using a hypothetical accident scenario very similar to the actual event. Our engaged employees responded quickly to the incident. Their preparation and safety-minded focus kept this incident from being worse.Planning and Preparation 
Pay off in DTE Gas  
IncidentDriving Economic ProgressCommunity
DTE Energy is one of the region’s largest employers. We partner with more 
than 38 economic development agencies, including the Michigan Economic Development Corporation (MEDC), Ann Arbor SPARK, The Right Place Program, Lake Shore Advantage and Detroit Economic Growth Corporation. Our partner organizations stretch from the Upper Peninsula, to Grand Rapids, to the City of Detroit. Through these partnerships, we provide financial support and leadership on committees and boards of organizations. The most critical component of our economic development partnerships is supporting projects that bring new business to the communities we serve. This work includes helping to answer utility-related questions and solving problems for potential customers.
Our goal is to attract and expand business activity, bringing new investment and 
base jobs to Michigan. Base jobs are critical to our region’s success. They are created by firms that export their products outside of the community where they operate. Examples include automotive manufacturers and suppliers. These jobs in turn create non-base jobs that serve the local market, like restaurants and retailers.
As we continue to grow our non-utility businesses, our economic impact outside 
the state also is expanding.Our goal is to 
attract and expand business activity by bringing new investments and base jobs to Michigan.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Community  page  40DTE Energy was part of the team bringing 
Amazon to Livonia, Mich. The online retail giant plans to open a large-volume product fulfillment center and invest nearly $90 million. When the facility opens in October 2017, Amazon’s move to Michigan will create 1,000 jobs. The project has been awarded a $7.5 million performance-based grant from the Michigan Business Development Program to help offset recruiting costs. Amazon selected Michigan over competing sites in Indiana and Ohio.
DTE was a key team member with Michigan 
Economic Development Corporation, Wayne County and the City of Livonia in landing this project. We worked closely with the site owner, Ashley Capital, to meet Amazon’s aggressive cost and timing needs. DTE Energy will be building an industrial substation for Ashley Capital to meet the project’s requirements.Pure Michigan Business Connect  
DTE Energy is one of seven original leaders in Pure Michigan Business Connect, an $8 billion public-private initiative established in 2011 to increase business with Michigan suppliers throughout the state. In May 2013, we pledged to spend $1 billion with Michigan-based businesses by 2015. We met this goal and surpassed it a full year ahead of schedule. Building on the success of this initiative, in June 2015 we announced our commitment to spend another $5 billion with Michigan-based companies over the next five years, a significant expansion of the initial pledge.
The company supported a number of Michigan-based businesses 
in 2016, spending $1.3 billion throughout the year. To date, DTE, in partnership with Pure Michigan Business Connect, has spent $2.6 billion cumulatively with Michigan businesses, creating 13,000 new jobs. Highlights of DTE’s partnership with Michigan-based vendors in 2016 include:
• In Southeast Michigan and Metro Detroit, DTE exceeded $1 billion in spending with 700 companies, which created and supported nearly 5,400 jobs.
• In Western and Northern Michigan, DTE spent $68 million with 165 companies, which created and supported nearly 350 jobs.
• In the Greater Lansing Area, DTE spent $17 million, doing business with 30 companies, which created more than 85 jobs.
• In Eastern Michigan, DTE spent nearly $67 million with 190 companies, which created and supported more than 330 jobs.DTE Attracts Amazon 
and New Jobs
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Community  page  41Ideal Contracting, a Michigan-based 
supplier, has added 75 new employees in recent years to support work the company performs at DTE’s Monroe, Trenton and St. Clair Power Plants. DTE spent $25 million with the company in 2016. As a result of the increased work, Ideal Contracting now employs more than 100 full-time staff and an average of 250 skilled trade laborers.Building Job 
Opportunities in Michigan
$600$825 $800$922$945$1.3
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011millionmillionmillionmillionmillionbillionMichigan Based Supplier SpendDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Community  page  42 Community  page  43Supply Chain Management and Diversity  
We value the business relationships we have with our suppliers and view them 
as strategic partners to our company’s success. We expect those with whom we do business to share the same values and principles that allow our company to enjoy an excellent reputation within the communities we serve.
DTE Energy expects its suppliers to provide a safe and healthy work 
environment for our employees, subcontractors, customers and all visitors to the premises. Suppliers must also conduct their business operations in a way that protects and sustains the environment and is in full regulatory compliance.
We manage these supplier relationships and expectations through supplier 
performance scorecards and periodic executive reviews. In 2016, DTE Energy conducted 75 executive forums and reviews with top suppliers and senior leadership. Focusing on safety priorities, DTE Gas scheduled monthly contractor partnership meetings to discuss safety and quality audit results. We have more than 105 supplier scorecards in place to measure performance and develop corrective actions when necessary.
DTE Energy is committed to using a diverse supplier base, including businesses 
principally owned and operated by women and minorities. We require our suppliers have the same commitment in their use of materials and services from their own base of diverse suppliers and contractors.
In 2016, DTE spent more than $410 million with certified diverse suppliers, 
representing nearly 20 percent of the company’s overall spend. This included $184 million in spending with minority-owned businesses and $226 million with women-owned businesses. We also hosted and attended 37 business networking events focused on supplier diversity. Community
Business Customers  
Through the services we provide to our business customers, DTE supports the economic development of our region. We recognize energy costs can be a significant proportion of operating costs. We work with commercial and industrial customers ranging from small businesses to large manufacturing facilities to help them improve their energy efficiency. By helping our customers thrive, we are supporting a stronger economy across Michigan, which will expand our customer base in the future.
We want our business customers to think of us as partners in energy savings. 
DTE Energy employs an Energy Optimization team to help business customers learn how to use energy more efficiently through practical steps geared toward specific needs. In 2016, the energy optimization team partnered with Fluidline Components — a leading distributor of pneumatic and hydraulic equipment — to install foam insulation around electric water heater pipes, upgrade to a light-emitting diode exit sign and replace existing T12 fluorescent lights with new, high-efficiency T8 lamps. DTE Energy incentives covered nearly half the project’s costs. Within 10 months, energy savings paid for the remaining investment.
In 2016, DTE spent 
more than $410 million with certified diverse suppliers, representing nearly 20 percent of the company’s overall spend. DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Community  page  44 Community  page  45Energy Policy LeadershipCommunity
Michigan’s Energy Future  
Our goal is to promote long-term energy policy that achieves affordability and 
reliability for our customers and is adaptable to the changing energy landscape. As a force for growth in Michigan, we believe it is our responsibility to support constructive, balanced policies that benefit the state’s families and businesses. 
Michigan, and the entire United States, has entered a period of the most 
profound transformation of the power generation sector since World War II. Many factors will affect Michigan’s energy portfolio moving forward, such as:
• The aging of our coal fleet
• The emergence of cost-competitive natural gas-fired and wind-powered energy generation
• State and federal clean energy policies  
This transformation is underway. Retirement of older and less-efficient coal plants has already begun. We need to determine the type of new energy generation to replace coal-fired capacity. We take many factors into account including projected costs of different technologies and fuel sources, their operating characteristics and environmental impact. Michigan needs a flexible process to integrate cost-effective technologies to ensure affordable rates for customers. Today, and for the foreseeable future, natural gas and wind are the most economical sources of energy for Michigan.
In December 2016, the Michigan Legislature and Governor Rick Snyder enacted 
a comprehensive new energy policy, which became effective in April 2017. We support this constructive policy as it protects reliability and affordability for our customers and promotes cleaner sources of energy. Among its provisions, the law increases the renewable energy portfolio from the previous goal of 10 percent of sales to a new goal of 15 percent by 2021.As a force for 
growth in Michigan, we support constructive, balanced policies that benefit the state’s families and businesses.As the state transitions to supplying 
cleaner forms of energy, the policy also creates a framework for fair and competitive electric supply planning processes that support Michigan’s reliability and economy.
Involvement in Energy Policy  
Organizations  
DTE Energy believes a constructive, 
balanced policy is underpinned by a strong understanding of energy issues that affect safety, reliability and affordability. We participate in the following industry associations to collaborate and jointly advocate for issues benefiting our industry:
American Gas Association
• Biomass Power Association
• Edison Electric Institute
• Interstate Natural Gas Association 
of America
• Iron and Steel Institute
• Nuclear Energy Institute  
We are also members of state and national trade associations where the company holds positions on their boards, participates on projects or serves on committees. We actively engage in discussions with the following groups to help align our positions and participate in their advocacy to policymakers to the extent possible:
• Business Leaders for Michigan
• Detroit Regional Chamber of  
Commerce
• Michigan Chamber of Commerce
• Michigan Manufacturers Association
• National Association of Manufacturers
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce  
We participate in a series of industry and customer advocacy coalitions that support our goal of strong customer access to information:
• Coalition to Keep Michigan Warm
• Marcellus Shale Coalition
• National Energy & Utility Affordability Coalition
• Nuclear Waste Strategy Coalition  
DTE Energy is also a member of the Human Resources Policy Association and the Center on Executive Compensation.Political Contributions  
We believe participation in the political and public policy arenas, when conducted in a legal and transparent manner, is an important and appropriate role for companies in open societies. In the United States, there are important federal and state laws that govern this participation.
The DTE Energy Political Action 
Committee (PAC) was formed in 1977 as a voluntary, non-partisan committee to promote and support responsible government through contributions to candidates for election to federal, state and local offices. It is designed to provide DTE Energy employees with an effective, convenient way to make financial contributions to candidates and to participate in the democratic process. The PAC is guided by a steering committee made up of employees from around the company. Information about DTE Energy’s PAC contributions can be obtained via the websites of the Federal Election Commission and the Michigan 
Secretary of State’s Bureau of Elections .Climate Change  page  46 Climate Change  page  47Climate Change: 
Taking Action for the Future
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017
The energy industry across the United States is undergoing a major transformation by seekinglower-carbon energy sources while meeting growing demand. At DTE Energy, we recognize our role in this industry-wide transformation and our responsibility to provide affordable, reliable and cleaner energyfor our customers. Today, we are pursuing a deliberate course of action to meet the challenges of the future.DTE Energy recognizes climate change as a key long-term policy issue we 
must address. Taking into account the long-term needs of our business, our customers and the environment, we have committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from electric generation by 75 percent below 2005 levels by 2040 and 80 percent by 2050. These long-term commitments include milestone reductions of 20 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 and 45 percent by 2030.
These goals will be met by retiring existing coal plants, building new natural gas-
fired generation, developing more wind and solar projects and continuing to operate our Fermi 2 Power Plant. In addition to our investments in new energy generation, we are taking action across the company to reduce and offset greenhouse gas emissions: 
• We are helping our customers reduce energy usage and lower their bills by becoming more energy efficient. 
• We are national leaders in developing landfill gas capture systems and in converting small coal-fired power plants to run on biomass fuels.
• In 2016, we received an operating license renewal for our Fermi 2 Power Plant to extend operation from 2025 to 2045. We already hold a license to construct and operate a new nuclear unit at the Fermi site. We have not committed to building new nuclear capacity, but nuclear power is the only proven carbon-free power source that can operate around the clock.
• As a founding partner in the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Natural Gas STAR Methane Challenge Program, DTE has committed to use best management practices to reduce methane emissions from our gas operations over the next five years.  Reduce carbon 
dioxide emissions from electric  
generation by 75 percent below 2005 levels by 2040  
 and 
 Reduce carbon dioxide emissions from electric  
generation by 80 percent below 2005 levels by 2050Climate Change
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Emission Reduction 
Goals:DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Climate Change  page  48We believe regulations can be established to achieve national 
environmental and economic goals, plus coordinate with energy policy development in Michigan. Our goals align with Michigan Governor Rick Snyder’s focus on adaptable energy and environmental policy. Every decision is based on excellent reliability, affordable prices and protecting/sustaining the environment. In 2016, Michigan passed significant energy legislation to enhance the state’s commitment to reliable, clean energy. DTE’s approach to managing our energy generation fleet will continue to be coordinated with federal and state policies. DTE Energy is 
committed to a long-term strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that will guide our investment  
in new clean energy generation while minimizing financial impacts on customers.Beginning in 2016, we moved our baseline for evaluating emission reductions 
from 2010 levels back to 2005 levels to be consistent with how we report other air emissions. This year’s report shows performance against both the 2005 and 2010 baselines. For more information, see our discussion in the Air Quality section. 
Controls to reduce carbon dioxide (CO
2) emissions have not been commercially 
demonstrated. Additional reductions in CO2 must be achieved through reduced 
use of fossil fuels to produce electricity, improved efficiency at power plants, 
switching to less carbon-intensive fuels and other technological alternatives that cut CO
2 emissions for every megawatt-hour (MWh) of generation. We are 
already on a trajectory to reduce our CO2 emissions from electric generation 
by 30 percent below 2005 levels in the early 2020s. Our 2016 total emissions of CO
2 from electric generation were 26 percent below 2005 levels. Some 
decrease in emissions is due to the extended shutdown of our St. Clair Power Plant following a fire in August 2016. For more information, see our Safety Section. 
DTE actively participates with the following organizations to shape carbon 
performance standards: the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Michigan’s Agency for Energy, Michigan’s Department of Environmental Quality, the Edison Electric Institute and other business and community stakeholder groups to shape carbon performance standards, including the Clean Power Plan issued by the EPA in 2015. Regardless of possible changes in policy, DTE CO
2 emission reductions will continue, driven by our customers’ 
economic and environmental interests. Our greenhouse gas reduction goals meet or exceed the reduction requirements of the Clean Power Plan — a policy designed to lower CO
2 emissions by power generators.43.2 43.7
39.938.139.2
36.6 36.3
31.9
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2005Greenhouse Gas Emissions in millions of tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)Climate Change
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Climate Change  page  49Out of our company-wide fleet of vehicles across Michigan, about 500 are either fueled by compressed natural gas or are electric or hybrid vehicles. This represents nearly 13 percent of DTE Energy vehicles. Our alternative fuel vehicles create less greenhouse gas emissions and other air pollution compared to conventional service trucks and cars.Alternative Fuel  
Vehicles
2050 2040 2030 2020 2005-20%
-45%
-75%-80%Emission Reduction GoalsDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Climate Change  page  50Climate Change
Transformation of Electric Generation
DTE Energy Transformation
Coal
DTE provides tools and resources that empower our customers to be more energy efﬁcient and optimize 
their energy use. Through technology, innovation and collaboration, we’re helping Michigan families and businesses save money on their energy bills. This protects the environment by conserving natural resources and it supports our local economy.Nuclear Natural Gas Wind Other Renewables 
(solar, biomass, hydro)
Energy EfﬁciencyThe electric power industry is undergoing the most dramatic change we have seen in 50+ years. DTE is managing our response to this transformation with a focus on working safely, improving reliability and maintaining affordability for our customers.
Other types of energy 
sources are a small but 
growing part of DTE's 
generating portfolio. We 
are constructing major 
solar facilities, as solar 
panels are becoming more 
efﬁcient and affordable.We invested signiﬁcantly 
in wind power over the 
past several years, which 
beneﬁts both air quality 
and regional economic 
development. DTE’s local 
spending creates jobs for 
Michigan’s economy. With increasing availability 
of natural gas from 
domestic production, gas 
prices have declined and 
our use of natural gas as a 
generation fuel has ramped 
up. By taking advantage of 
low-cost gas resources, DTE 
can keep energy affordable 
for our customers.Nuclear power is the only 
source of emission-free 
baseload generation. With 
the recent license renewal 
for our Fermi 2 plant, 
nuclear continues as an 
integral part of DTE's 
generation portfolio. Our largest fuel source is coal. 
We are gradually reducing 
our coal-ﬁred generating 
capacity and replacing some 
of it with natural gas and 
renewables. As our plants 
age, coal generation is 
becoming more expensive 
over time compared to other 
alternatives. 2005: 78%
61%2016: GENERATION 2005: 18%21%
2016: GENERATION 2005: 3%8%
2016: GENERATION 2005: 0%6%
2016: GENERATION 2005: 1%4%
2016: GENERATION 
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Climate Change  page  51Our power is generated or purchased from a variety of 
sources including nuclear, coal, natural gas, oil and renewable energy. The overall mix of generation assets — especially the proportion of coal-fired capacity — is already changing and will continue to evolve. The shift in our generation portfolio is expected to cost between $7 billion and $8 billion. It is a dramatic transformation we are preparing for and will manage, while being mindful of our customers’ needs for affordability and reliability.
Compared to newer energy generating alternatives, our 
coal fleet is aging and becoming more expensive to operate. Our generation mix is shifting over time from a portfolio of heavily-weighted coal toward a more balanced mix of coal, natural gas, renewable energy and nuclear energy. DTE recently closed the Marysville and Harbor Beach plants. In 2016, we announced plans to retire eight additional coal-fired energy-generating units at three sites in Michigan within the next seven years. The energy-generating units slated for retirement include units at our River Rouge Power Plant, St. Clair Power Plant and Trenton Channel Power Plant. Combined, these three power plants generated about 25 percent of the electricity produced by DTE in 2015 — enough energy to power 900,000 homes. The retirements are part of the fundamental transformation in the way electricity is being supplied across Michigan and throughout the United States. DTE Energy, in partnership with the United States Economic Development Administration (EDA), is providing grants to help St. Clair County and the City of Harbor Beach redevelop property following retirements of DTE Energy coal-fired power plants in an effort to help mitigate economic and social impacts of plant retirements in these two cities. DTE Energy’s Harbor Beach Power Plant was retired in 2013 and the St. Clair Power Plant is expected to retire by 2023. 
We recognize these plants have served communities 
for decades, providing jobs and significant revenue for municipal and community services. These grants will help St. Clair and Harbor Beach identify potential solutions to reinvest in the community and generate a new tax base. Specifically, the grant money will be used to commission a comprehensive economic impact study for the St. Clair plant closure that will assess the economic value of the plant and recommend strategies for economic diversification and reinvestment. We are also helping Harbor Beach develop a comprehensive feasibility study for a local multipurpose space that could serve as a business start-up hub. 
DTE employees at those plants being closed are 
offered transfers to other positions within the company. We have not laid off any workers as a result of coal plant retirements within our generating fleet.Managing the Impacts 
of Coal Plant ClosuresDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Climate Change  page  53 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Climate Change  page  52In December 2016, our Pinnebog Wind 
Park in Huron County began generating electricity. An expansion of our existing Echo Wind Park, the Pinnebog facility consists of 30 wind turbines with the ability to produce a combined 50 megawatts of clean, renewable energy – enough to power more than 22,000 homes. Pinnebog brings the number of DTE owned or operated wind parks to 13 across Michigan. 
Approximately 150 people were employed 
to work on various aspects of the project during construction. DTE now has a total of 30 full-time employees working at its Huron County Renewable Energy Center. In addition to the creation of construction and operations jobs and local economic development, DTE wind projects in Huron County will generate tax revenue of more than $20 million by 2020. Pinnebog Wind Park 
We are actively working to replace retiring coal-fired capacity with other generating assets to maintain adequate reserves. DTE is evaluating options for new capacity to ensure safe, clean and reliable energy for our customers. One alternative under consideration is construction of a new, state-of-the-art natural gas-fired power plant. We have also brought in a substantial amount of new renewable energy capacity to our system. Building new generating assets in Michigan has the added benefit of creating jobs for Michigan residents.
To address immediate capacity needs, in 2015 we purchased two 
natural gas-fired simple cycle plants that, combined, can provide more than 1,000 megawatts of power during peak demand periods. Our major investments in natural gas transmission and storage infrastructure, including the NEXUS interstate pipeline and our new Link lateral and gathering pipeline system, also support the overall energy industry transformation.
Nuclear power generation provides a significant amount of carbon-
free, base-load electricity, which is crucial for helping the state of Michigan and the entire United States meet the challenges of reducing greenhouse gases. In fact, 87 percent of Michigan’s carbon-free electricity output is generated by the state’s three nuclear energy facilities. In 2016, DTE received a 20-year license renewal from the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for the Fermi 2 Power Plant, enabling the plant to continue operating through 2045. In addition, we hold an NRC license — obtained in 2015 — to construct and operate a new nuclear energy facility on the site of the existing plant, although we have no immediate plans to build a new nuclear plant. With these NRC approvals in hand, DTE Energy now possesses a diverse, comprehensive slate of options to plan for Michigan’s energy future.Electricity from renewable resources — wind, sunlight and biomass — plays an important role in meeting our customers’ energy needs while reducing our environmental impact. DTE is Michigan’s largest investor in and producer of renewable energy. In 2016, our capital spending was $83 million for solar projects and $49 million for wind projects. The company has driven over $2 billion in investments in renewable energy since 2008.
In 2016, we generated or contracted for more than 3.4 million megawatt hours 
(MWh) of electricity from renewable energy sources — enough to power nearly 450,000 households.
In compliance with state-mandated targets, DTE Energy met the 10 
percent renewable energy standard for 2016 based on retail sales. This was accomplished by retiring approximately 4.2 million certified Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) and other eligible credits that equated to 10 percent of our total 2014 retail sales of 42.4 million MWh, weather-normalized. Each of the RECs  represents one MWh of renewable energy generated by DTE or purchased from third-party renewable sources.
Under the new Michigan energy legislation, electricity suppliers must meet a 
12.5 percent renewable energy target by 2019 and 15 percent by 2021. DTE is well positioned to meet these future goals with the addition of wind and solar resources.Climate Change
Renewable Energy
In 2016, we 
generated or contracted for more than 3.4 million megawatt hours of electricity from renewable energy sources — enough to power nearly 450,000 households.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Climate Change  page  54 Climate Change  page  55Wind Energy  
Wind power is increasingly cost- 
competitive with traditional power generation technologies and we anticipate this trend to continue. Over the past six years, the average price of United States wind power has declined by 66 percent. For our region of the country, it is also the most efficient and cost-effective form of renewable energy.
Michigan is among the top 15 states in 
the nation for wind production. The cost to produce wind energy is now on par with natural gas generation.
DTE Energy values its relationships with 
landowners and local communities at our wind power sites. We work diligently to maintain strong community support as we pursue new wind projects. Wind energy continues to be valuable to DTE Energy as part of a well-balanced generation portfolio.
Climate Change
Leading Michigan in Solar Power  
With 28 solar projects in its portfolio, DTE Energy continues to be Michigan’s largest producer of solar energy. The company has additional solar projects in various stages of development. In 2016, DTE broke ground on three new solar projects in Michigan, two in the city of Lapeer and one in Detroit. The two Lapeer projects combined represent the largest utility-owned solar installation in Michigan and rank among the top five in the Eastern United States. Comprised of nearly 200,000 solar panels, the arrays (pictured at left) will produce enough clean, emission-free energy to power 9,000 homes when they begin generating electricity in 2017. The O’Shea Park array on the west side of Detroit — also scheduled for operation in 2017 — will be one of the largest urban solar arrays in the country.
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Climate Change  page  56Climate Change
Energy Efficiency 
Customers  
We provide incentives, information and techniques to help residential and business customers use energy more efficiently. This 
helps our customers reduce their costs, strengthening Michigan’s economy. Energy efficiency also provides environmental benefits by conserving resources and reducing pollution.
DTE’s energy efficiency programs help reduce customers’ energy use by increasing awareness of energy saving possibilities and 
provide products and services.  Rebates, tips, comparison tools, strategies and energy efficiency education help customers make informed energy saving decisions. Programs are designed to capture both electric and natural gas savings for all customers. For those DTE customers with only electric or only natural gas service, we make efforts to coordinate with other utility companies so that these customers can easily take advantage of energy efficiency program offerings to reduce both electricity and gas usage.455471 478 485 481611 614682
621631
Requir ed sa vings Electricit y 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012GWh
saved
GWhGWh GWh GWh GWhGWh
savedGWh
saved
GWh
savedGWh
savedAnnual Energy Efficiency Savings – Electricity
1,1861,2401,2091,1781,3011,4741,436 1,4131,481,620
Requir ed sa vings Gas2016 2015 2014 2013 2012MMcf
savedMMcf
savedMMcf
savedMMcf
savedMMcf
saved
MMcfMMcfMMcfMMcfMMcfAnnual Energy Efficiency Savings – Gas
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Climate Change  page  57Visit the DTE website to find our Energy Optimization Annual Report and other DTE 
newsletters, magazines and reports for residential and business customers.At DTE Energy, we create energy efficiency 
programs designed to save customers money, reduce energy waste and safeguard the environment. In 2016, DTE Energy partnered with the Michigan Department of Transportation to install energy efficient LED lighting on a number of major Metro Detroit freeways as part of DTE’s Energy Efficiency Business Program. In total, nearly 13,000 high-pressure sodium, metal halide and mercury vapor fixtures were replaced by new, efficient LED fixtures. This lighting upgrade successfully reduced energy use by 65 percent and is expected to save Michigan residents an estimated $2 million in energy costs in 2017. Metro Detroit  
Freeways Light Up with 
New Energy Efficient LEDs
Michigan enacted legislation in 2008 that set energy optimization 
targets for utility companies and provided a funding mechanism to pay for program costs. As the charts to the left demonstrate, we have consistently exceeded the legislated targets. During 2016, utility customers saved energy by implementing measures such as installing more efficient appliances and lights, adding insulation, weatherizing homes and conducting boiler tune-ups. The efficiency programs are managed by DTE Energy and serviced by expert contractors. Our Energy Optimization Annual Report provides more detail about the specific programs in place.
Efficiency at DTE Energy Facilities  
Across the organization, we are re-designing our workspaces to be 
more energy efficient, particularly our lighting systems, which are significant users of electricity. We completed light-emitting diode (LED) retrofits in office spaces and warehouses and developed a corporate standard for controlled temperatures. We have switched to all LED lighting with automated controls in our Detroit headquarters building. Company-wide, these facility improvements will save an estimated 2.8 million kilowatt hours annually, representing about 2,000 tons of greenhouse gases avoided.Environment  page  58Environmental  
LeadershipClean land, water and air are essential to human life and health. DTE Energy is committed to environmental stewardship and protecting the natural resources upon which we all depend. 
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017
 Environment  page  59Air Quality
We have been a leader in adopting new technologies and practices to reduce 
emissions since the 1920s, when our Trenton Channel Power Plant was among the first to install electrostatic precipitators to remove fly ash from the exhaust stacks.
DTE Electric has reduced emissions of particulate matter (PM), sulfur dioxide 
(SO
2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) by more than 85 percent since the mid-1970s. 
During this same period, total annual generation increased 12 percent. More recently, since 2005 we have reduced emissions 83 percent for PM, 76 percent for SO
2, 69 percent for NOx and 86 percent for mercury.
We continue to invest in emission reductions to meet increasingly stringent air quality requirements, spending $2.4 billion through 2016 to comply with federal regulations. DTE has completed installation of state-of-the-art emission controls at the Monroe Power Plant, our largest generating plant and the fourth largest coal-fired plant in the country. The emission controls consist of flue gas desulfurization (FGD) and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) units to control emissions of SO
2, NOx, mercury and other hazardous pollutants. These controls 
allow the plant to meet stringent federal regulations including the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS).
Our remaining coal-fired power plants reduce mercury and other toxic air 
pollutant emissions with a combination of dry sorbent injection and activated carbon injection emission control systems. As shown in the air emissions chart to the left, mercury emissions from DTE Electric power plants have decreased dramatically as a result of these measures.
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Our environmental 
expenditures in 2016 totaled $57 million.Environment
050000100000150000200000250000
SO2 Emissions (tons )
NOx Emissions (tons )Particulat e Emissions (tons )2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2005
0.82
0.770.9
0.750.77
0.520.48
0.11
Mercury (tons )2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2005Air EmissionsDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Environment  page  60At DTE Energy, we work to take care of the land, water and living creatures both 
within our service territories and beyond. DTE is one of the largest landowners in Michigan. We maintain thousands of acres of land in its natural state and provide habitat for hundreds of species of birds, mammals, fish and insects. We also reclaim previously disturbed land to actively create and manage habitat featuring native Michigan plants, such as gardens that benefit the monarch butterfly and other pollinators. 
Our utility operations implement an avian protection plan to minimize the 
impacts of our electric lines on bird populations. An electronic reporting system helps to identify key equipment that may need to be modified to enhance avian protection. With the increasing number of wind turbines in our generation portfolio, the plan has been appropriately broadened to address the impact of bats also. Plan implementation involves establishing procedures for observing birds and bats near electric lines and wind turbines, for removing nests from transmission poles before birds can become settled and for documenting and communicating these management measures. We train our field employees to be aware of the requirements under federal wildlife protection rules.
Wildlife Habitat Council Certified Sites  
DTE Energy facilities are home to hundreds of species of wildlife. Some are 
endangered or threatened and we are helping their populations increase and stabilize through our efforts to provide habitat in an environment that frequently makes little room for wildlife. To this end, DTE Energy has 36 sites certified under the Wildlife Habitat Council, a nonprofit organization that helps companies manage their property for the benefit of wildlife. In 2016, two of our locations received new certificationss — Citizen’s Gas in Adrian, Mich., and DTE Electric’s Newport Service Center in Monroe. We continue to increase the amount of habitat our operations support. Ten existing sites were also re-certified during the year.Habitat and Biodiversity Environment
2016 Wildlife 
Habitat Council Awards  
 
River Rouge Power Plant Regional Corporate Habitat of the Year  
Muskegon Service Center  Bats Project 
Award, recognizing the team’s efforts to create habitat for native bat species
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Environment  page  61DTE Energy has a long history of preserving, 
protecting and sustaining our environment. In 2016, the DTE Energy Foundation partnered with ReLeaf Michigan to plant 115 trees in seven communities from Wayne and Macomb counties to the Thumb to Northern Lower Michigan. The DTE Energy Foundation also worked closely with the Michigan Department of Natural Resources to plant trees, marking the 20th anniversary of a partnership that has resulted in more than 40,000 trees and seedlings being planted in 490 Michigan communities.Reforestation in 
Lower Michigan  1996
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2007
2008
2009
2010
2012
2015
2016Belle River Power Plant: East China Township
Monroe Power Plant: MonroeFermi 2 Power Plant: NewportDowntown Headquarters: Detroit
St. Clair Power Plant: East China Township
Trenton Channel Power Plant/Sibley Quarry:  Trenton
Taggart Compressor Station: Six Lakes
Greenwood Energy Center: KenockeeRiver Rouge Power Plant: River RougeWestern Wayne Service Center: BellevilleAshley Mews: Ann ArborAllen Road Facility: MelvindaleBelle River Compressor Station: East China  Township
Grayling Service Center: GraylingMichigan Avenue Service Center: YpsilantiMt. Pleasant Service Center: Mt. PleasantWashington-10 Compressor Station: WashingtonAlpena Service Center: AlpenaKalkaska T&SO: KalkaskaLudington Service: Center LudingtonMilford Compressor Station: MilfordMuskegon Service Center: MuskegonTawas Service Center: Tawas CityTraverse City Operations: Traverse CityConner’s Creek Power Plant: DetroitBig Rapids: Big RapidsCadillac: Cadillac
Gaylord T&SO Station: Gaylord
Wealthy Street Station: Grand Rapids
Escanaba Service Center: EscanabaKingsford Service Center: KingsfordLynch Road Service Center: DetroitPetoskey Service Center: PetoskeySault Ste. Marie Service Center: Sault Ste. MarieCitizen’s Gas: Adrian Newport Service Center: Monroe WHC certified sites
DTE - Gas DTE - Electric OtherDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Environment  page  62 Environment  page  63737,721
25.2%
186,216
Recycled (tons ) Gener ated (tons )Waste and Recycling Environment
Coal Combustion Residuals  
Fly ash and bottom ash are byproducts of the coal burned in our power 
plants. Synthetic gypsum is a byproduct of the flue gas desulfurization (FGD) units that reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired plants. These coal combustion residual (CCR) materials — ash and synthetic gypsum — are recycled to the greatest extent possible. The portion of the CCR not recyclable is disposed in state and federally regulated landfills and impoundments. Our ash recycling rates dropped in 2016 as we brought sorbent injection and activated carbon emission controls on line to meet the Mercury and Air Toxic Standards (MATS) rule. The presence of sorbents and activated carbon in coal ash reduces its acceptability for beneficial reuse.
Gypsum is used as a component in drywall manufacturing and as a beneficial 
additive in agriculture. In 2016, we recycled 100 percent of the gypsum produced at DTE Energy power plants, 360,235 tons.
DTE Energy operates three licensed landfills for disposal of fly ash not recycled 
and each coal plant has on-site facilities for managing CCR before it is recycled or disposed. These landfills operate in compliance with applicable state and federal laws and are routinely inspected by state and local regulatory agencies. We assess the condition of our facilities and equipment on a regular basis and conduct maintenance and repairs as necessary to maintain structural integrity and operational performance.
In response to high-profile incidents around the country involving coal 
ash spills in 2014, DTE Energy began re-evaluating all of our ash handling facilities and determined that we have no issues of concern. In April 2015, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized a rule to regulate CCR. The rule maintains the status of CCR as non-hazardous waste and lays out various design and performance standards that companies must meet. DTE Energy continues to implement a compliance program managing our CCR landfills and impoundments in accordance with state regulations and EPA’s rule.
AshGypsum
360,235 100%
360,235
Recycled (tons ) Gener ated (tons )Recycling  
DTE Energy’s pollution prevention programs help to minimize impacts and conserve resources by reducing the volume of waste that would otherwise go to landfills for disposal. 
As part of our customer energy efficiency programs, we accept old appliances 
for recycling when customers purchase new, more efficient models. In 2016, DTE customers recycled more than 37,000 appliances, saving nearly 38,000 megawatt hours of electricity due to improved energy efficiency. To administer the program, we partner with Solutions for Energy Efficient Logistics to manage the appliance pick-ups and Goodwill’s Green Works safely dismantles and recycles the scrapped appliances.
The table below summarizes all the materials that DTE Energy recycled in Michigan 
during 2016:Nuclear Waste  
Our Fermi 2 Power Plant has on-site facilities for the management, processing and temporary storage of radioactive waste materials.
Used nuclear fuel consists of solid, 
ceramic-like pellets secured in zirconium alloy tubes. After the fuel has expended its useful energy, it is removed from the reactor and stored in a steel-lined, concrete vault filled with water. Water provides a natural radiation barrier and cooling for the used fuel. After seven years in the used fuel pool, it can be moved into large concrete and steel storage containers. Fermi 2 began on-site dry storage of used fuel in 2014. All on-site nuclear waste storage is subject to strict regulations requiring multiple layers of safety and security systems.
Low-level radioactive solid waste sent 
from Fermi 2 for off-site disposal includes material generated during water treatment, trash with radioactive contamination and irradiated components. Fermi 2 complies with extensive federal regulations governing radioactive waste shipments to licensed burial sites or intermediate processing facilities. Any low-level waste sent for processing is then shipped directly to a licensed burial site.
Material Recycled Weight (lbs.)
Lamps 22,188
Batteries 70,112
Paper 390,202
Cardboard 728,065
Electronics 249,240
Mercury/Mercury Containing  
Equipment3,782
Metal Non-Ferrous 134,206,531
Metal Ferrous 9,302,87 4
Miscellaneous 100,050
Plastic 78,500
Wood 795,875DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Environment  page  64 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Environment  page  65Land Restoration and Remediation  
Before natural gas became widely available in the 1940s and ‘50s, 
“manufactured gas” produced from coal and oil was used for lighting, cooking and heating in homes and businesses. As natural gas — which is extracted from underground geological formations — replaced manufactured gas, manufactured gas plants (MGPs) were shut down. Years later, industry, state and federal environmental agencies began studying these sites and recognized that plant operations and the way in which MGPs were abandoned had resulted in residual contamination at the sites. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates that 3,000 to 5,000 former MGP sites are located in towns and cities across the country.
As DTE Gas, founded in 1849, grew into the statewide utility it is today, it 
acquired numerous local gas companies that had operated MGPs. Today, DTE Gas is responsible for a total of 16 MGPs throughout the state. A preliminary response and investigation has been completed at each site and work has been completed at several sites. In addition to these DTE Gas properties, DTE Electric is responsible for three MGPs and our subsidiary Citizens Gas is responsible for one site.
Full remediation and closure has been achieved at nine sites, allowing the 
properties to be developed for a variety of uses. Two other MGPs have undergone partial site closure.Environment
During 2016, closure was completed at the following sites:
• DTE Gas’s former manufactured gas plant (MGP) site in Greenville, Mich., property currently operates as a landscaping business.
• Citizens Gas’s former MGP site in Adrian, Mich., received closure for the remainder of the property and the River Raisin. The property currently operates as the Citizens Gas Fuel Service Center.  
Additionally in 2016, DTE Gas made significant progress on MGP site cleanup at its Wealthy Service Center in Grand Rapids and the former Station A site located within the City of Detroit’s Riverside Park.DTE Energy is doing its part to support restoration efforts to spur the recovery 
of native fish in the Great Lakes region. Loss of rocky habitat in the Detroit 
and St. Clair River systems, which has occurred since the 1800s due to 
industrialization, has contributed to a decline in the lake sturgeon population 
— a state and provincially threatened species that can grow to up to 6.5 feet 
in length and live up to 40 years. DTE Energy is proud to support restoration 
efforts in these rivers to rebuild native fish communities throughout the Great 
Lakes region and in turn benefit communities and the residents who live there.
DTE Energy biologists who monitor water intake pipes and conduct ecological 
assessments for the company have contributed their time and unique expertise to support reef construction projects designed to facilitate fish spawning. Other 
project partners include the University of Michigan Water Center, Michigan 
Sea Grant, U.S. Geological Survey, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and Michigan 
Department of Natural Resources.
The restoration team built their first pilot spawning reef near the head of 
Belle Isle in the Detroit River in 2004. DTE provided coal cinders, a by-product 
of a nearby power plant, to help reduce the cost of the pilot project and 
demonstrate that a constructed reef was possible in the Detroit River. Most 
recently, in 2016, DTE Energy provided a staging area at our retired Connors Creek Power Plant for 15,000 tons of limestone to support the construction 
and expansion of additional spawning reefs in the St. Clair River and the Detroit 
River. 
The results of the team’s efforts are already becoming visible. Lake sturgeon 
eggs were found on four different constructed spawning reefs in the Detroit 
and St. Clair Rivers. This means sturgeon found the new habitat structures and 
deemed them suitable for spawning. Equally important, sturgeon eggs appear 
to be incubating and hatching successfully on the reefs, producing viable larvae 
that are showing up in nets downstream of the constructed reefs. Reef Project for Sturgeon in 
Detroit RiverDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Environment  page  66 Environment  page  67We use water from lakes and rivers to cool our thermal electric power plants. 
Our power plants withdraw and return water to Michigan’s surface waters under the authority of permits issued by the State of Michigan.
In 2016, DTE Energy facilities in Michigan withdrew approximately 1.08 trillion 
gallons of surface water. Most of that volume, 1.07 trillion gallons, was cooling water for generating facilities — about 27,300 gallons per megawatt-hour generated. Water consumption — water not returned directly to the water system and largely lost through evaporation — is calculated to be 1.8 percent of withdrawal.
The majority of our power plants utilize once-through cooling, so most of 
the water withdrawn is then returned to the same water body with a slightly elevated temperature. These thermal discharges have not been found to adversely affect aquatic ecosystems. The Fermi 2 Power Plant and the Greenwood Energy Center have closed-cycle cooling systems, which reduce the amount of water withdrawal required. In 2016, these plants recycled approximately 462 billion gallons of water.
One of our generating facilities is located in an area where water resources are 
constrained — the 44 megawatt Mt. Poso biomass plant near Bakersfield, Calif., representing less than 0.01 percent of our total generating capacity. Located in the arid Central Valley region of California near Bakersfield, the Mt. Poso facility reuses water recovered from the oil production activities of an adjacent oil field instead of directly withdrawing surface water. Surplus water is provided to local ranchers for their cattle operations.Water Environment
Environmental Protection Agency Clean Water Act Regulations  
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized regulations in 2015 that set limits on the levels of toxic metals in power plant wastewater discharges and required the elimination of discharges from ash transport systems. To meet compliance deadlines starting in November 2018, DTE is evaluating alternatives and will likely implement new wastewater treatment measures, as well as changes to ash handling and storage at several power plants.
DTE is also evaluating alternatives for reducing the 
environmental impacts of intake structures at several facilities in response to cooling water withdrawal regulations issued by the EPA in May 2014. We are coordinating our work with the State of Michigan to determine whether any significant aquatic impacts are associated with our existing intake structures and whether there are cost-effective alternatives. Under the regulations, impact studies need to be completed over the next several years. State regulators will then make the final determination of what type of technology will be needed to reduce impacts to fish and other aquatic life.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Environment  page  68 Environment  page  69ComplianceEnvironment
Compliance   
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and an 
environmental activist group have brought litigation against DTE Electric for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act. DTE Energy has maintained throughout these legal proceedings that we have operated our plants in compliance with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations. Initial court rulings agreed and found DTE to be in compliance. However, in January 2017, a divided appeals court reversed the decision of the lower court and ruled against DTE. DTE Energy filed a petition for rehearing in front of the appeals court in February 2017 and is awaiting a response from the court.
Depending upon the outcome of the litigation and further discussions with 
the EPA, DTE Electric could be required to install additional pollution control equipment at some or all of the power plants in question, implement early retirement of facilities where control equipment is not economical, engage in supplemental environmental programs and/or pay fines. 
In 2016, DTE Electric and DTE Gas facilities — four separate sites — received a 
total of nine letters of violation (LOVs). None of these have resulted in any fines or penalties. In 2016, 23 LOVs were received by facilities in DTE’s Power and Industrial Projects business unit. Six of these LOVs resulted in fines totaling just over $400,000. The remaining LOVs have not resulted in any fines or penalties and some were resolved with no violations identified. After receiving these LOVs, we conducted thorough reviews of the findings for actionable tasks, identified root causes and implemented improvement tools to prevent recurrence of the violations.As a result of a multimedia inspection by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), EES Coke — the Michigan coke battery facility, a wholly-owned subsidiary of DTE Energy — received two Findings of Violation (FOVs) related to: failing to repeat benzene sampling of waste streams due to a process change and use of calibration gas inconsistent with the applicable regulation; and alleged deficiencies in its oil pollution prevention measures and spill prevention, control and countermeasures plan. EES Coke is currently working with the EPA to address the alleged violations. At this time, DTE Energy cannot predict the impact of the final settlement.
We addressed two compliance related issues during 2016 at DTE facilities 
outside of Michigan:
• After closure of the Shenango coke battery plant, the Allegheny County Health Department in Pittsburgh, Pa., issued a demand for $482,000 to resolve alleged Clean Air Act violations. Shenango filed an appeal of such demand on Aug. 19, 2016. In November 2016, the parties reached a settlement and Shenango agreed to pay $231,000.
• At Woodland Biomass Power in California, a renewable wood-fired power generation facility, the plant’s ash management practices are under investigation — specifically whether some of the ash generated at the facility should have been characterized and handled as hazardous waste under California regulations. Woodland is cooperating with the investigation and has committed to remove or remediate any ash improperly characterized. Our CompanyAt DTE Energy, our aspiration 
is to be the best-operated energy company in North America and a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where we live and serve. Our aspiration grew out of our employees’ genuine desire to help build a better future for Michigan and for every community in which we operate.
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Our Company  page  70Company ProfileOur Company
Our businesses include DTE Electric and DTE Gas — energy utilities regulated by the Michigan Public Service Commission — and non-utility energy operations located throughout the country. In 2016, DTE Energy’s operating revenue totaled $10.6 billion.  
 
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 Our Company  page  71DTE Electric 
In 2016, we delivered electricity to our customers from coal, natural gas, oil, nuclear and renewable energy sources. Our customers include residential, institutional, commercial and industrial accounts. DTE Electric owns and operates fossil fuel and nuclear plants totaling 10.2 gigawatts (GW) of installed capacity in Michigan, 958 megawatts (MW) of pumped storage hydroelectric and 493 MW of renewable energy capacity — wind and solar. In 2016, our total electric sales amounted to 48,600 gigawatt-hours (GWh). Purchased electricity accounted for 21 percent of the electricity supplied by DTE Electric during this period.  
More information on renewable energy is included in the Climate Change section  
of this report.  
DTE Electric owns and operates approximately 31,000 miles of overhead distribution lines and 16,000 miles of underground distribution lines. Our service territory encompasses 7,600 square miles and includes about 2.2 million residential, commercial and industrial customers.
Hydro
8.40%Wind
3.90%
Oil
2.30%
Gas 
21.80%
Nuclear /
Other 
9.80%Coal
 53.60%2016 Electric Generation Capacity
Hydroelectric
0.14%
Renewable 
Fuels
8.10%Oil
0.21%
Gas
7.89%
Nuclear
22.87%Coal
60.80%2016 Fuel Mix Used to Generate Electricity
Wood 
0.05%
Wind 
6.36%Solid Waste 
Inciner ation 
0.47%Biomas s
1.07%Solar 
0.06%
Biofuel 
0.80%Renewable Fuels BreakdownDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Our Company  page  72 Our Company  page  73DTE Gas  
Our natural gas utility business serves approximately 1.3 million residential, commercial and industrial customers throughout Michigan. Our service territory covers 14,700 square miles. Founded in 1849, DTE Gas is one of the nation’s largest natural gas utilities. We own distribution, storage and transportation facilities, approximately 2,000 miles of large gas transmission pipelines and 19,000 miles of smaller distribution mains.
We own storage properties relating to four underground natural gas 
storage fields with an aggregate working gas storage capacity of 139 billion cubic feet. These facilities are important in providing reliable and cost-effective service to our customers. We also sell storage services to third parties. There is more natural gas storage capacity in Michigan than in any other state.
DTE Gas is directly connected to interstate pipelines, providing access 
to most of the major natural gas supply producing regions in the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and Canadian regions. We are planning significant investments over the next two years to expand our capacity and increase the amount of natural gas our system can bring into Michigan and deliver to the state’s gas customers. This is important to maintain reliable and affordable supply for residential and business customers, especially as natural gas is increasingly used as a fuel for generating electricity, replacing more carbon-intensive coal-fired capacity.
Gas Storage and Pipelines  
DTE Energy controls two natural gas storage fields in Michigan, 
gathering pipeline systems in Michigan and Pennsylvania and ownership interests in two interstate pipelines. The two storage facilities in Michigan — combined working storage capacity of 91 billion In October 2016, DTE Energy closed on the purchase of natural gas pipeline assets in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, complementing and expanding our existing midstream operations. These facilities, called Link Lateral & Gathering, will connect with the NEXUS pipeline and facilitate our ability to serve market demand. This was a significant acquisition that reflects the continuing growth and importance of our non-utility gas business.New Link Lateral & 
Gathering
 
cubic feet — operate separately from 
our regulated gas utility assets, but are well integrated. DTE Gas provides physical operations, maintenance and technical support for the storage facilities and in-state gathering systems.
Gas Storage and Pipelines has more 
than doubled in net income over the past five years, reflecting tremendous growth in natural gas production and use. Continuing this trend, we are partnering with Houston-based Spectra Energy to develop the NEXUS Pipeline, a 255-mile gas pipeline through Ohio and Michigan that will serve the next generation of natural gas-fueled power plants. The pipeline, pending approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, is expected to be operational by the end of 2017. During 2016, DTE acquired additional, significant pipeline projects that expand our capacity for gathering and marketing natural gas from Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
Power and Industrial Projects  
Our Power and Industrial business 
provides energy-related products and services nationwide to energy-intensive industrial, commercial and institutional customers. Its product lines are concentrated in the industrial energy services, renewable energy and environmental controls markets. Industrial energy services include the production of blast furnace coke and pulverized coal for sale to integrated steel producers and the provision of on-site energy services such as waste water treatment, process steam, co-generated power, chilled and hot water, and compressed air to automotive, chemical and consumer products companies and institutions such as hospitals, universities and governmental authorities. In the renewable energy market, the company produces renewable energy from waste-wood and landfill gas for sale to regional electric utility companies and industrial customers. The environmental services business uses a proprietary process to treat coal resulting in reduced environmental emissions when combusted. 
Power and Industrial encompasses 
more than 60 projects in 17 states, employing approximately 700 people. For more information, visit the DTE Power & Industrial web page .Energy Trading  
DTE Energy Trading conducts energy marketing and trading operations, serving primarily utilities, local distribution companies and other marketers. In 2016, the value of our trading volume totaled about $2.6 billion.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Our Company  page  7 4 Our Company  page  75Corporate Values and PrioritiesOur Company
Our values shape the way we think about our company and the 
way that we work on a daily basis. They highlight the “rules of the 
road” and guide all of our decisions and actions.
Our values have real power because we routinely live them, 
act on them — and do so with conviction.
We put the health and safety of people first… and know this 
responsibility rests with each of us.
We act with integrity and show respect… and understand this 
defines our company’s character.
We see our work through the eyes of those we serve… and 
know that our work is a powerful means to serve others.
We bring our best energy and focus to our work… and are 
fully engaged and accountable for results.
We believe that improvement is our daily responsibility… and 
know those we serve have the right to expect that from us.
We play to win as a team... and put the needs of our 
enterprise first.
We are passionate about the success of our company… and 
know that its health and growth generate prosperity.This illustration summarizes DTE Energy’s seven corporate priorities — the strategic drivers that propel our business 
toward a strong future. In 2016, we added Force for Growth in Communities as a pillar of our corporate strategy. Our success depends upon the growth and prosperity of the customers and communities we serve.Superior & 
Sustainable
Financial
Performanc eStrong P olitical 
& Regulat ory
Context
Clear Gr owth
& Value 
Creation 
StrategyHighly Engaged
Emplo yees
Distinctiv e
Continuous
Impr ovemen t
Capabilit yTop-Decile
Cust omer
SatisfactionForce for
Growth in
Communitie sDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Our Company  page  76 Our Company  page  77Financial PerformanceOur Company
Detailed information about our financial performance is available in our Form 
10-K filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Visit our Investor Relations website for more information or download the Form 10-K.DTE Energy has 
delivered total shareholder return above the energy company average for the past three-year, five-year and 10-year periods. Diluted Earnings Per Common Share (dollars) Net Income (million dollars) Operating Revenue (billion dollars)
$3.55$3.76$5.10
$4.05$4.83
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012diluted earnings
$610$661$905
$727$868
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012Net Inc ome
$8.8$9.7$12.3
$10.3$10.6
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012oper ating revenueGovernanceOur Company
We believe a successful business is built on strong leadership and well- 
managed operations. At DTE Energy, our board of directors is committed to creating long-term value for its shareholders while operating as a responsible corporate citizen. Working toward that goal, the board performs a number of functions for the company following sound governance practices, including:
• Selecting company leaders
• Setting direction and approving strategy for the company
• Oversight of company management
• Regular oversight of the effectiveness of management policies and decisions, including management’s development and execution of the company’s strategies  
We value an independent perspective of the management of our company. Our board is comprised of 11 independent directors, plus our chairman and CEO, the only management director. We hold annual director elections where a majority vote is required for uncontested appointments. All of the board committees are composed exclusively of independent directors and we have a lead independent director elected by the independent members of the board of directors.
To maintain the highest level of integrity, the board of directors and its 
committees hold annual self-assessments. Executive officers and directors are subject to robust stock ownership requirements. We uphold policies applicable to all company directors, officers and employees to ensure their economic interests are aligned with those of the shareholders. Our board membership reflects a diversity of experience, gender, race, ethnicity and age. Directors also possess the highest personal and professional ethics, integrity and values.
Visit our Governance web page for more 
information about our board’s oversight and committee structure.83%
17%75%
17%
8%
Hispanic African
Americ anCaucasian  Female  Male Diversity of Board MembersDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Our Company  page  78 Our Company  page  79EthicsOur Company
At DTE Energy we encourage an 
ethical culture and our employees are kept grounded by our values. Our emphasis on ethics and values starts with our board of directors and extends throughout the entire company. The DTE Ethics and Compliance Program is designed to promote a culture of integrity, respect and compliance with the law. The DTE Energy Way, our code of conduct, is the highest level of policy for all of our employees. It guides how we behave on the job to ensure our activities are consistent with our values. All employees are trained on our code of conduct. In addition, DTE Energy has a supplier code of conduct to ensure our business partners adhere to the same standards and align with DTE Energy’s values.
To promote a culture of ethics and 
integrity and to help drive supporting behaviors, ethics ambassadors are embedded within business groups across the company. These ambassadors serve as a resource for employees seeking guidance regarding ethical concerns and to assist with ethics-related training and communication.Our Ethics in Action Program promotes a “speak-up” culture by providing mechanisms for employees, retirees, vendors, customers, shareholders and the general public to report suspected non-compliance or work practices that are inconsistent with our values and standards. In addition to reporting suspected concerns, the system allows you to ask questions or seek guidance. Individuals can make a confidential and, if desired, anonymous report through an independent third party by contacting the on-line Ethics in Action Helpline.
DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Our Company  page  80 Our Company  page  81StakeholdersOur Company
Maintaining an open and transparent relationship with our stakeholders is 
important to our success as a business and a responsible corporate citizen. DTE Energy’s stakeholder engagement process involves outreach to people and organizations that may be affected by the decisions we make. The stakeholders with whom we interact may support or oppose our decisions, but regardless of their stance, we believe everyone benefits from the exchange of factual information and open dialogue.
DTE Energy maintains a Community Advisory Council, which involves a 
rotating group of community members. The Community Advisory Council is a partnership that allows us to gain insight into local perceptions of DTE Energy and provides us an opportunity to improve our relationship with the community. The council also works toward developing programs to better serve the needs of our customers.
DTE’s Regional Relations team proactively manages relationships with elected 
and appointed officials. In partnership with Public Affairs, the team also works with key community stakeholder organizations and nonprofits. They represent DTE through membership and interaction with 45 Chambers of Commerce across Michigan. In addition, DTE executive leaders contribute their expertise and time to the community by serving in 70 board positions for nonprofit organizations throughout our service territory.
Please refer to the Policy Leadership section of this report for a list of advocacy 
groups with whom DTE engages.Our Stakeholder 
Engagement 
Summary Table  
describes some of the ways DTE Energy communicates with our different stakeholder groups.We investigate and respond to all complaints filed with the Michigan Public 
Service Commission (MPSC) by customers of DTE Gas and DTE Electric. In 2016, there were 1,827 complaints, compared to 1,967 the previous year. Our approach to all complaints is to resolve the issue and restore our relationship with the customer. The details of complaints received and resolved are shared with the business units so we can learn and continuously improve. Our goal is to have stellar customer interactions each and every time.
Key Stakeholders: 
CommunitiesCustomersEmployeesFacility NeighborsGovernmentIndustry AssociationsNon-Governmental OrganizationsShareholdersSuppliersDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017Our Company  page  82 Our Company  page  83STAKEHOLDER 
GROUPTYPE OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY TOPICS RAISED DTE RESPONSE
Government (local, state, federal)Attendance at state agency meetings and hearingsContinuous dialogue Community assistance
Customer satisfactionCybersecurityEconomic developmentEnergy affordabilityEnergy efficiencyGreenhouse gas emissionsReliability and infrastructureRenewable EnergySafetyEnvironmentSee discussion in the following report sections:
• Safety
• Measuring Utility Customer Satisfaction
• Reliability and Infrastructure
• Technology and Innovation
• Cybersecurity
• Energy Affordability
• Public Safety
• Driving Economic Progress
• Energy Policy Leadership
• Climate Change (all subsections)
• Environmental Leadership (all subsections)Attendance at meetings and hearings 
with federal regulators and policymakersContinuous dialogue
Volunteer events Regularly throughout the year
Press releases and local media Regularly throughout the year
Facility tours for legislators Regularly throughout the year
Industry  
associationsAttendance at regular meetings and conferences. For example:
• Edison Electric Institute
• Nuclear Energy Institute
• American Gas Association
• Interstate Natural Gas Association 
of America 
• Michigan Manufacturers Association
• Michigan Chamber of Commerce
• Detroit Regional ChamberRegularly throughout the year 
(monthly, quarterly and annually)Air emissions
CybersecurityEnergy efficiencyGreenhouse gasesHabitat and biodiversityReliability and infrastructureRenewable EnergySafetyWaste managementSee discussion in the following report sections:
• Reliability and Infrastructure
• Cybersecurity
• Technology and Innovation
• Climate Change (all subsections)
• Environmental Leadership (all subsections)
Environmental 
groupsAttendance at regular meetings and conference, including:
• The Nature Conservancy
• Wildlife Habitat Council
• Detroiters Working for  
Environmental Justice
• Southwest Detroit Environmental 
VisionRegularly throughout the year Air emissions
Energy efficiencyGreenhouse gasesHabitat and biodiversityRenewable EnergyWaste managementSee discussion in the following report sections:
• Reliability and Infrastructure
• Cybersecurity
• Technology and Innovation
• Climate Change (all subsections)
• Environmental Leadership (all subsections)
Ongoing discussions around specific top-
ics of concern to environmental groups related to DTE Energy activitiesContinuous dialogue on a project or case-by-case basis
ShareholdersInvestor calls Quarterly Greenhouse Gas emissions 
Reliability and infrastructureRenewable EnergySafetyFinancial performanceSee discussion in the following report sections:
• Safety
• Reliability and Infrastructure
• Climate Change (all subsections)
• Our Company (all subsections)Press releases Periodically throughout the year
DTE Investor Relations website Updated regularly
Investor Relations Day Annual
SuppliersSupplier Meetings, Symposiums, Execu-
tive Reviews Weekly, monthly, quarterly and/or annuallyGreenhouse Gas emissions 
Reliability and infrastructureRenewable EnergySafetyFinancial performanceSee discussion in the following report sections:
• Safety
• Reliability and Infrastructure
• Driving Economic Progress
• Transformation of Electric Generation
• Renewable Energy
• Waste and RecyclingSupplier scorecards Weekly, monthly, quarterly and/
or annuallySTAKEHOLDER GROUPTYPE OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY TOPICS RAISED DTE RESPONSE
CommunitiesCommunity Advisory Council meetings Tri-annual (March, July, Novem-ber)Customer service & assistance programs
Community outreach (organiza-
tions, events, partnerships)Jobs & employment (training, 
access, hiring process)
Political involvement (lobbying, 
advocacy) Diversity and inclusion Economic development (entrepre-
neurship, small business support) Energy efficiency Reliability and infrastructurePublic safetyNeighborhood developmentSee discussion in the following report sections:
• Diversity and Inclusion
• Community Support
• Jobs and Education
• Neighborhoods
• Public Safety
• Driving Economic ProgressCommunity Partners meeting Annual meetings in Southeast 
Michigan and Greater Michigan
External Organization Partnerships Periodically throughout the year
(Nonprofits, Chambers, Associations, Clubs attending/supporting events & 
programs)Regularly throughout the year
Volunteering (Board service, events, long-
term programs)Regularly throughout the year
Neighborhood stakeholder meetings Quarterly
CustomersDTE website Updated regularly Customer satisfaction
CybersecurityEconomic developmentEnergy affordabilityEnergy efficiencyGreenhouse gasesReliability and infrastructureRenewable EnergySafetySee discussion in the following report sections:
• Measuring Utility Customer Satisfaction
• Reliability and Infrastructure
• Serving Our Customers
• Technology and Innovation
• Cybersecurity
• Energy Affordability
• Driving Economic Progress
• Green House Gas Emissions
• Transformation of Electric Generation
• Renewable Energy
• Energy EfficiencyBilling statements and messaging Monthly
Press releases and local media Regularly throughout the year
Customer feedback via online comments 
and phone hotlineContinuous dialogue
Account management for large commer -
cial & industrial customersContinuous dialogue
J.D. Power survey Twice annually
EmployeesCompany intranet (Quest) Updated regularly Community assistance
CybersecurityDiversity and inclusionEmployee engagementSafetyEnvironmentSee discussion in the following report sections:
• Safety
• Employee Engagement
• Diversity and Inclusion
• Health and Wellness
• Cybersecurity
• Community Support
• Transformation of Electric Generation
• Environmental Leadership (all subsections)Training events Ongoing throughout the year
Town Hall meetings Regularly throughout the year
Employee feedback via online comments Continuous dialogue
Gallup engagement survey Annual
Volunteerism Ongoing throughout the year
Month of Caring Annual
Employee Energy Groups Monthly 
Performance reviews Annual
Facility  
neighborsPress releases and local media Regularly throughout the year Air emissions
Community assistanceEconomic developmentHabitat and biodiversityReliability and infrastructureRenewable EnergySafetyWaste management   See discussion in the following report sections:
• Safety
• Reliability and Infrastructure
• Community Support
• Public Safety
• Driving Economic Progress
• Transformation of Electric Generation
• Renewable Energy
• Environmental Leadership (all subsections)Community meetings associated with 
specific facility projects or eventsPeriodically as neededStakeholder Engagement SummaryOur CompanyDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017About Our Report  page  84 About Our Report  page  85
About Our ReportThis Corporate Citizenship 
Report is built around our company’s material aspects or topics that have a direct or indirect impact on our ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for ourselves, our stakeholders and society at large. We review our material topics annually to identify and confirm issues that matter most to DTE Energy and prioritize the content of our report accordingly.About Our Report
Materiality
In 2013, we conducted an in-depth materiality assessment in preparation for our 
first Corporate Citizenship Report. Our cross-functional corporate sustainability team conducted a benchmark of 15 utilities, analyzed the Electric Power Research Institute’s (EPRI) Energy Sustainability Interest Group materiality study and participated in a comprehensive Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) training workshop. This initial phase helped us generate a list of 40 sustainability topics we considered in later phases of our materiality assessment process. 
To prioritize the 40 initial aspects, the team evaluated each topic for low, medium or 
high alignment with DTE Energy’s six corporate priorities. We also assessed the level of interest in each topic expressed by internal, external and government stakeholders, based on existing engagement channels. We sent a survey with the highest scoring aspects to all members of the team as well as the Steering Committee — our broader management oversight group — to establish the final ranking. 
This year, in preparation for the 2016 report, DTE conducted a robust materiality 
refresh to reevaluate and prioritize key sustainability issues for our business and stakeholders. This included a benchmarking of five peer companies, interviews with external stakeholders from a variety of organizations and a survey completed by stakeholders within DTE as well as outside the company. Based on feedback from this materiality refresh, the following changes were made:
• Cybersecurity, Diversity and Inclusion, Habitat and Biodiversity and Waste Management were added as new material topics.
• Corporate Viability and Government Policy were removed from the list of material topics.
• Asset Management and Emergency Preparedness were wrapped into Reliability and Infrastructure. Compliance and Ethics were combined into a single topic.Employee Engagement and Employee Retention were combined. DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017About Our Report  page  86 About Our Report  page  87MATERIAL ASPECT DESCRIPTIONIS TOPIC  
PRIMARILY INSIDE OR OUTSIDE 
OUR OPERATIONS?
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
VALUE CREATION STRATEGYPOLITICAL & REGULATORY
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENTCONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
FORCE FOR GROWTH 1. Air Emissions Efforts to reduce non-greenhouse gas emissions Inside X X X
2. Community Assistance Corporate and foundation giving, community and customer outreach Outside X X X
3. Compliance and EthicsCompliance with environmental and business regulations and fostering a culture of 
strong corporate ethics Inside X X X X
4. Customer Satisfaction Delivering excellent customer satisfaction Outside X X X X X X
5. CybersecurityProtecting the electrical grid from external, unauthorized manipulation or damage; maintaining customer data privacy and internal systems controlInside
X X X
6. Diversity and InclusionA workforce that reflects our diverse customer base and workplaces where every employee is valuedInside
X X X
7. Economic DevelopmentDeveloping businesses and jobs in our region (e.g., Pure  Michigan, Energize Detroit)Outside
X X X
8. Employee EngagementEnsuring that DTE has an extremely engaged, high-quality workforce; employee retention and developmentInside
X X X X
9. Energy AffordabilityEffectively manage customer affordability and rate competitiveness for both gas and electric utilitiesInside & Outside
X X X X X X
10. Energy EfficiencyMaking efficient use of energy resources in our own operations and on the customers’ sideInside & Outside
X X X X X
11. Greenhouse Gases Efforts to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases Inside X X X X
12. Habitat and Biodiversity Conserving and enhancing wildlife habitat and areas of high biodiversity Inside X X X
13. Reliability and InfrastructureProviding reliable gas and electric service to our customers and maintaining infrastructure to support energy deliveryInside
X X X X X
14. Renewable Energy Encouraging development of renewable energy sources Inside X X X
15. Safety Employee safety and public safety Inside & Outside X X X X
16. Waste ManagementEfforts to manage waste responsibly, maximize reuse and recycling and ensure nuclear waste safetyInside
X XAbout Our ReportDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017About Our Report  page  89 About Our Report  page  88About Our Report About Our Report
Reporting Principles Management Approach
In determining the content for this year’s Corporate Citizenship Report, DTE applied 
the principles laid out in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board in late 2016, the GRI Standards are a voluntary 
1 
global framework, intended for use by organizations to report about their impacts on the economy, the environment and society. The GRI Standards lay out four principles for determining report content. We have addressed each of these principles as follows:
• Stakeholder Inclusiveness – DTE reached out to a broad and diverse group 
of stakeholders as part of the materiality assessment process and the planning process for this specific report. Through direct interviews, questionnaires and online surveys, we obtained input on the expectations and interests of employees, customers, community partners, senior management, government representatives, investors, non-governmental organizations and suppliers. 
• Sustainability Context – This report considers the sustainability context relevant for our industry sector and geographic region. Our discussion of the broader energy transformation that is underway across the United States is a key example of this reporting principle.
• Materiality – We have conducted extensive analysis to identify topics covering our economic, environmental and social impacts, as well as topics that interest and influence our stakeholders. DTE has conducted benchmarking against other companies’ reports, both inside and outside the energy sector; participated extensively with industry organizations; and engaged third-party consulting expertise in GRI reporting to ensure that we obtain a thorough understanding of our material issues.
• Completeness – This report presents data for 2016, for those metrics we publicly report. These publicly-reported metrics, supplemented with narrative descriptions of programs and case studies, provide a complete view of DTE’s sustainability/citizenship performance as determined through our internal analysis and our discussions with stakeholders. 
1  Use of the GRI Standards is voluntary in the U.S., although some countries and stock exchanges outside of 
North America require companies to prepare GRI reports.DTE manages all of its material issues in a thoughtful and 
responsible way. This section of our Corporate Citizenship Report provides basic information about our management approach, governance structure and strategy. 
The DTE Energy Board of Directors has overall management 
responsibility at the highest level for our sustainability strategy, which we call our Force for Growth strategy. The following board committees are responsible for supervising various aspects of our material issues
• The Public Policy and Responsibility Committee (PPRC) is responsible for reviewing and advising the board on emerging social, economic, political, reputational and environmental issues that could significantly affect the company’s business and performance in relation to the community, shareholders, customers and employees. The PPRC’s charter is available on our Corporate Governance web page and spells out the committee membership, responsibilities and duties. The committee is responsible for evaluating its performance annually and reporting results to the board.
• The purpose of the audit committee is to assist the board in its oversight of the company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and the integrity of the company’s financial statements.
• The Nuclear Review Committee provides oversight and review of the company’s nuclear power generation program, including safety, regulatory compliance and operational performance.  For each of our material topics, we have internal policies, goals and targets that drive improvement. We monitor progress through the use of management dashboards to track metrics. Our code of business conduct and ethics — the DTE Energy Way — is publicly available in the Corporate Governance section of our website. Many other policies — including health and safety, cybersecurity and diversity and inclusion — are distributed internally. We have a robust training program that covers in detail the policies relevant to each employee’s duties.
Our commitment to Continuous Improvement (CI) provides 
us with a framework for evaluating the effectiveness of our management approach. We conduct regular reviews of our activities and incorporate lessons learned in a “plan, do, check and act” CI cycle that benefits future projects.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017About Our Report  page  90 About Our Report  page  91About Our Report
Environmental Management Systems  
Our internal environmental audit programs help keep us accountable and 
drive improvement. Our International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 certified facilities undergo annual environmental management system conformance audits. DTE Gas, DTE Electric and DTE non-utility operating facilities also undergo periodic environmental compliance audits and we perform periodic environmental risk audits for all waste vendors we utilize. The results of these audits are reported through top-level management reviews within business units and an annual summary of audit program effectiveness is provided to the board. We track corrective actions and use problem solving tools to identify and address root causes.
Educated and engaged employees play an important role in managing our 
environmental aspects. Annual, web-based training encourages DTE Electric and DTE Gas employees to understand the relationship between their work and the environment. This mandatory environmental training module covers significant environmental aspects that can have an impact on the environment such as controlling emissions, handling waste, reducing vehicle idling, managing storm water and protecting wildlife habitat.
DTE Electric and DTE Gas facilities are currently third-party certified under 
the ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management Systems Standard including the Fossil Generation facilities, Fermi 2 Power Plant, substations, renewable operations and all DTE Gas facilities.
An ISO 14001 standard revision was issued in September 2015. DTE Energy is 
currently transitioning to the ISO 14001:2015 standard and we will be updating our management systems throughout 2017. Our goal is to complete all third-party certifications under the new standard for DTE Electric and DTE Gas facilities by the end of 2018.Clean Corporate Citizens  
Michigan’s Clean Corporate Citizen (C3) program is designed to honor and recognize businesses that have demonstrated strong environmental stewardship throughout their operations. To be designated a C3, facilities must have a comprehensive and facility-specific environmental management system that sets targets and objectives for continual environmental improvement; pollution prevention programs focusing on reduce, reuse, recycle; and a history of compliance with environmental regulations.
Clean Corporate Citizens who 
voluntarily participate in this program receive public recognition and are entitled to certain regulatory benefits, including expedited permits. Seven DTE Electric power plants and 26 DTE Gas facilities have earned C3 recognition:DTE Electric Power Plants:
• Belle River Power Plant
• Fermi 2 Power Plant
• Greenwood Energy Center
• Harbor Beach Power Plant
• Monroe Power Plant
• River Rouge Power Plant
• St. Clair Power Plant
 DTE Gas Facilities:
• Allen Road Service Center
• Alpena Service Center
• Belle River Mills Compressor Station
• Big Rapids Service Center
• Cadillac Service Center
• Citizens Gas and Fuel
• Columbus Station
• Coolidge Service Center
• Escanaba Service Center
• Gaylord T&SO Of fice
• Grayling Station
• Kalkaska Station
• Kingsford Service Center
• Ludington Service Center
• Lynch Road Service Center
• Michigan Avenue Service CenterDTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017About Our Report  page  92 About Our Report  page  93Performance Data
PERFORMANCE METRIC 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Employees
Employee Engagement Gallup Grand Mean score 4.08 4.18 4.28 4.27 4.33
Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
(OSHA) Recordable Rate1.24 0.81 0.99 0.77 0.45
Customers
Advanced meters installed, cumulative - Electric — 1,143,088 1,767,682 2,196,460 2,517,959
Advanced meters installed, cumulative - Gas — 211,887 586,316 788,487 933,522
Reliability Duration Index (minutes)* 472 582 793 277 239
Enrollment in Low Income Self-Sufficiency Plan — 28,947 22,000 34,000 35,000
Community
Spending in Michigan (million dollars) $825 $800 $922 $945 $1,300 
Total number of volunteers — 1,450 2,000 2,335 2,300
Total number of volunteer hours — N/A N/A 12,000 21,750
Total amount of DTE Foundation grants (million dollars) — $10 $11 $15 $15 
Climate Change
Net gas energy savings - customer programs (million cubic feet)1,47 4 MMcf saved 1,436 MMcf saved 1,413 MMcf saved 1,480 MMcf saved 1,620 MMcf saved
Required gas savings (million cubic feet) 1,186 MMcf 1,240 MMcf 1,209 MMcf 1,178 MMcf 1,301 MMcf
Net electricity energy savings - customer programs (gigawatt-hours)611 GWh saved 614 GWh saved 682 GWh saved 621 GWh saved 631 GWh saved
Required electricity savings (gigawatt-hours) 455 GWh 471 GWh 478 GWh 485 GWh 481 GWh
CO2 emissions (million tons) 38.1 39.2 36.6 36.3 31.9About Our Report
PERFORMANCE METRIC 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Environment
NOx emissions (tons) 37,272 40,494 32,185 25,804 20,648
SO2 emissions (tons) 133,456 128,178 83,447 71,465 52,245
Particulate emissions (tons) 1,291 1,645 1,105 767 536
Mercury emissions (tons) 0.747 0.773 0.522 0.479 0.112
Water withdrawal (billion gallons) 1,330 1,307 1,242 1,222 1,080
Water consumption (billion gallons) 20.5 20.4 18.8 20 19.1
Coal ash generation (million tons) 1.05 1.06 0.92 0.93 0.74
Recycling rates for ash (percent) 39% 42% 42% 42% 25%
Gypsum generation (million tons) 0.16 0.2 0.28 0.36 0.36
Recycling rates for gypsum (percent) 100% 97% 100% 97% 100%
Recycling rates (combined ash and gypsum) 47% 51% 55% 53% 48%
Our Company
Operating earnings per share (EPS) $3.94 $4.09 $4.60 $4.82 $5.28
Annual growth rate in operating EPS 5.07% 3.81% 12.47% 4.78% 9.54%
Annual shareholder return (percent) 14.90% 14.89% 34.61% -3.77% 26.93%
Funds from operations (FFO)/debt ratioDebt/Capital: 49%FFO/Debt: 22%Debt/Capital: 50%FFO/Debt: 23%Debt/Capital: 51%FFO/Debt: 25%Debt/Capital: 52%FFO/Debt: 21%Debt/Capital: 51%FFO/Debt: 21%
Diluted earnings per common share (dollars) $3.55 $3.76 $5.10 $4.05 $4.83 
Net income (million dollars) $610 $661 $905 $727 $868 
Operating revenue (billion dollars) $8.8 $9.7 $12.3 $10.3 $10.6 
* Reliability Duration Index is calculated as the length of customer interruptions divided by the number of customers also called the System Average Interruption Duration Index or SAIDI.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017About Our Report  page  94 About Our Report  page  95This is the fourth Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)-compliant report for DTE Energy, 
covering calendar year 2016. GRI is a voluntary, international framework that provides guidance to organizations on non-financial reporting. In 2016, GRI published its GRI Standards, the next generation framework for sustainability reporting. DTE Energy applied the GRI Standards as the basis for this Corporate Citizenship Report, in accordance with the Core option. 
We intend to publish our Corporate Citizenship Report on an annual basis. As we are 
still developing and formalizing our data collection process, we have not pursued third-party data assurance for this year. Report data represents aggregated data across our entire operation unless otherwise stated. 
The index below lists the GRI indicators addressed in this report and either includes 
the information directly or provides a reference to the relevant page(s) within this Corporate Citizenship Report. GRI IndexAbout Our ReportGRI INDICATOR SECTION
General Disclosures
102-1 Name of organization DTE Energy Company
102-2 Primary products and services Company Profile
102-3 Location of headquarters Detroit, Michigan, United States
102-4 Number of countries United States only
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form Governance
See also Form 10-K *
102-6 Markets served Company Profile
102-7 Scale of the organization Our Company; EmployeesSee also Form 10-K *
102-8 Total workforce
Number of employees of each type, based on DTE employment records as of December 31, 2016:
Male Female
Regular 7, 369 2,623
Temporary 175 93
   
Full-time 7, 368 2,603
Part-time 1 20
All employees work within the United States; the temporary employees represent primarily summer interns, which is the main type of seasonal employment we use.See also Employees report section.
102-9 Supply chain
Supply Chain Management and Diversity
102-10 Significant changes since last report Company Profile
102-11 Precautionary approach See Form 10-K
102-12 External initiatives Energy Policy Leadership; Waste and Recycling; Habitat and Biodiversity; Environmental Management Systems; Community
102-13 Membership in associations
Stakeholders; Energy Policy Leadership
102-14 CEO statement CEO Message
102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities CEO Message
102-16 Values, standards, codes Corporate Values and Priorities; Ethics
102-17 Mechanisms for reporting ethical concerns Ethics
102-18 Governance structure Governance
102-22 Board composition Governance
102-40 Stakeholder groups Stakeholders
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employees
*Form 10-K annual financial report for DTE Energy is available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website.DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017 DTE Energy Corporate Citizenship Report 2016-2017About Our Report  page  96 About Our Report  page  97GRI INDICATOR SECTION
102-42 Selection of stakeholders Stakeholders
102-43 Approach to engagement Stakeholders
102-44 Topics raised through engagement Stakeholders; Materiality
102-45 Operational structure Company Profile
102-46 Defining report content Materiality 
102-47 Material aspects Materiality 
102-48 Restatements This report contains no material restatements of 
previously reported information.
102-49 Significant changes in scope and boundaries Not applicable
102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2016
102-51 Date of previous report Summer 2016 (covering calendar year 2015)
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point CEO Message
102-54 Claims of GRI reporting This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index
GRI Index
102-56 External assurance GRI Index
Economic
201-1 Direct economic value Driving Economic Progress; Performance Data Summary; See also Form 10-K
201-2 Risks and opportunities related to climate change
Climate Change
203-2 Indirect economic impacts Community Support; Driving Economic Progress; Land Management and Remediation; Performance Data Summary
204-1 Local suppliers
Driving Economic Progress; Performance Data Summary
Environment
302-5 Energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives Renewable Energy; Energy Efficiency
303-1 Total water withdrawal by source Water ; Performance Data Summary
304-1 Biodiversity Habitat and Biodiversity
305-2 Greenhouse gas emissions Climate Change; Air Quality; Performance Data Summary
DTE uses the following standards, methodologies, 
assumptions and/or calculation tools to calculate Greenhouse gas emissions:The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule and The World Resource Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition)
305-5 Initiatives to reduce Greenhouse gas emissions
Climate ChangeGRI INDICATOR SECTION
305-7 NOx, SO2 and other air emissions Air Quality; Performance Data Summary
DTE uses the following standards, methodologies, assumptions and/or calculation tools to calculate air emissions:
NO
x and SO2 emissions are calculated using 
continuous emission monitoring systems. 
Particulate matter (PM) emissions are calculated 
based on opacity for all plants, excluding the DTE 
Monroe Power Plant. The Monroe Power Plant 
PM emissions are calculated using continuous emission monitoring systems.
306-2 Waste by type and disposal
Waste and Recycling; Performance Data Summary
307-1 Environmental fines and sanctions
Compliance
Social
401-1 Hire rates and turnover rates Employees
403-2 Rates of injury 2016 Days Away, Restrictions and Transfers (DART) rate = 0.24Absentee rates for 2016: Male = 2.22%, Female = 3.46%
Gender breakdown is not available for 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordable incidents and DART rates.See also Safety and Performance Data Summary.
404-3 Skills management
In addition to the Foundational Capabilities training described in the report, DTE employees completed technical, regulatory and compliance training during 2016: 
• Training hours completed – 282,227 hours
• Number of course completions – 172,081
• Number of employees and leaders with course completions – 13,283
• Gender breakdown of training data is not available.
See also Employee Engagement section.
405-1 Employee diversity
Diversity and Inclusion
413-1 Community engagement Stakeholders; Community
415-1 Political contributions Political Contributions
Disclosures From Electric Utilities Sector-Specific Guidance
EU1 Installed capacity Company Profile
EU2 Net energy output Company Profile
EU3 Customer accounts Company Profile
EU4 Transmission and distribution mileage Company Profile
EU5 CO2e emissions allowances Not applicable
EU12 Distribution line losses 3,394 gigawatt hours (6.53% of net system output)
EU15 Percent of employees near retirement age Employees
EU28 Power outage frequency System Average Interruption Frequency Index = 0.988
EU29 Average power outage duration
Reliability; Performance Data Summary