PAGE 1
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2
Focus on Future Generations2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2
In accordance with Global Reporting Initiative standardsPAGE 2 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2
Dear fellow stakeholder, 
On behalf of DTE Energy and its more than 10,000 
employees, I thank you for your interest in our company’s Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) strategy. At DTE, our approach to doing business is rooted in our aspirations of being a force for growth in the communities where we live and serve – and being the best-operated energy company in North America; I'm proud to share the progress we made toward our aspirations in 2019. 
One of our most significant areas of focus is our ongoing 
commitment to produce cleaner, greener energy, which better positions us to fight climate change – one of the defining public policy issues of our time. As you may be aware, DTE Energy is Michigan’s largest investor in, and producer of, renewable energy. In 2017, we were the first energy company in Michigan, and one of two in the nation, to commit to an 80% carbon reduction goal in our electric business. In 2019, we accelerated our commitment, moving our carbon reduction goal up 10 years and pledging to reduce carbon emissions 80% by 2040. We also pledged to achieve net-zero carbon emissions in our electric business by 2050. 
I’m also proud to share that in June 2020, our natural 
gas business announced it, too, will achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 – the equivalent of removing 1,350,000 automobiles from the road. We’ll cover this commitment in more detail in next year’s report, but I encourage you to click here to learn more in the meantime. 
Just as we always have, our team – from executive officers 
to frontline employees and first-day co-ops – stands united in approaching our ESG commitments strategically and holistically, with the interests of employees, customers, communities and investors in mind. 
From workforce development, education and job creation 
to placemaking and beautification, our team worked hand-in-hand with residents, suppliers and community organizations to make our neighborhoods healthier and more vital last year. Furthermore, 2020 and its many 
Jerry Norcia 
President and Chief Executive Officer DTE Energy challenges have unlocked new opportunities for us to continue our servant leadership in new ways. 
The DTE Foundation has contributed more than $21 million 
to COVID-19 relief efforts to date (in 2020). These efforts include providing basic human necessities to our neighbors in need, and donating more than 2 million KN95 masks to first responders and essential service providers thanks to the diligent work of our company’s team of procurement experts; much of our procurement work occurred during a severe supply shortage in the early weeks of the pandemic. And we continue to work alongside 40 faith-based partners in more than 20 zip codes to support community efforts – including COVID-19 testing – to help our state continue to flatten the curve, and to provide support to our neighbors who need it most. I invite you to visit DTEimpact.com/covidcommunity to explore our COVID-19 relief efforts further.
While the past year has brought significant political, social 
and economic change to our state and nation, I’m proud to say our company has dug in its heels and continued to lead. We don’t know what challenges the remainder of 2020 will bring, however, we do know we will be anchored by our core values of delivering safe, caring, dependable and efficient service to our customers, communities and co-workers.
In subsequent pages, we highlight several of our company’s 
ESG initiatives and our commitment to creating and sustaining long-term value for all stakeholders. 
More information about DTE's sustainability performance is 
available here.
If you’re a DTE employee, we thank you for your service to 
our customers and communities. If you’re a DTE customer, we thank you for the opportunity to serve you. If you’re an investor, we thank you for trusting us with your resources. If you’re one of our partners, we thank you for working alongside us. PAGE 3
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Table of Contents
GRI 100: Universal Standards      4
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES       5
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH  
    
18
GRI 200: Economic        19
GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE      20
GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS  
    
20
GRI 204  :
 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES  
    
21
GRI 300: Environmental       22
GRI 301: MATERIALS        23
GRI 302: ENERGY  
      
23
GRI 303
 : 
WATER  
      
24
GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY  
      
24
GRI 305: EMISSIONS  
      
25
GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE  
    
27
GRI 307  :
 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE  
    
29
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT  
  3
0
GRI 400: Social        31
GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT        32
GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS  
   
33
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY  
   3
4
GRI 404  :
 TRAINING AND EDUCATION  
    
35
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY  
   3
5
GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION  
     
36GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING  3
6
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES  
     
36
GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT  
    
36
GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY  
      
37
GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH SAFETY  
    
37
GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY  
     
37
Sector Specific: Electric Utilities Sector Supplement   38
SECTOR SPECIFIC: ELECTRIC UTILITIES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT   3 9
NOT IDENTIFIED AS A MATERIAL ISSUE FOR DTE ENERGY  
  4
0
 
Supplemental Materials
      
41
INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS AND NATIONAL ADVOCACY ORGANIZATIONS  4 2
WILDLIFE HABITAT COUNCIL CERTIFIED SITES  
   4
3
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE  
     
44
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TABLE  
    
46GRI 100: Universal Standards 
> GRI 200: ECONOMIC 
> GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL> GRI 400: SOCIAL> SECTOR SPECIFIC: ELECTRIC UTILITIES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT> SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIALS
PAGE 5
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards PAGE 5STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 100 UNIVERSAL STANDARDS
GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURESGRI 102-1 Name of the organization DTE Energy CompanyGRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and 
services
DTE Energy Company is a publicly traded (NYSE: DTE) diversified energy company involved in the development and management of 
energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Our largest operating subsidiaries are DTE Electric and DTE Gas. More than three million residential, business and industrial customers throughout Michigan are customers of DTE Electric, DTE Gas or both regulated utility companies. 
Additional information can be found in DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2019 pages 7-8.
GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Detroit, Michigan, United States 
GRI 102-4 Location of operations United States and Ontario, Canada
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form
DTE Energy is a holding company. DTE Electric is a Michigan corporation and is a wholly owned subsidiary of DTE Energy. DTE Gas is 
a Michigan corporation and is a wholly owned subsidiary of DTE Energy. DTE Energy’s other businesses are involved in 1) natural gas pipelines, gathering, and storage; 2) power and industrial projects; and 3) energy marketing and trading operations.
DTE Electric and DTE Gas are regulated by the Michigan Public Service Commission. Certain activities of DTE Electric and DTE Gas, 
as well as various other aspects of businesses under DTE Energy, are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. DTE Electric and DTE Gas are regulated by other federal and state agencies, including the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Michigan Department Environment, Great Lakes and Energy; and, for DTE Energy, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. A section of the Vector Natural Gas Pipeline is located in Ontario, Canada, and is regulated by provincial and Canadian federal authorities.
Additional information can be found in DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2019 pages 7-8.
GRI 102-6 Markets served DTE Electric serves 2.2 million residential, business, commercial and industrial customers in a service territory encompassing 7,600 
square miles in southeastern Michigan. DTE Gas serves 1.3 million residential, business, commercial and industrial customers in a distribution territory of approximately 20,300 square miles in Michigan.
The DTE Gas Storage and Pipeline segment, DTE’s natural gas pipeline transmission network, connects markets in the Midwest, Northeast 
and eastern Canada. These pipelines connect producing regions to market areas to meet rising demand for clean, reliable natural gas. These pipelines also access underground storage fields in Michigan and Dawn, Ontario, to provide critical supply - particularly during the coldest winter months.PAGE 6
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-6 Markets served (cont.) In addition to utility operations in Michigan, the DTE Energy portfolio includes non-utility energy businesses focused on power and 
industrial projects, natural gas pipelines, gathering and storage, and energy marketing and trading in 24 states.
Power and Industrial
Gas Storage and PipelineEnergy Trading Citizens Gas FuelDTE Biomass EnergyMERCIn addition to work in the United States, a section of DTE Energy’s Vector Pipeline is located in Ontario, Canada. The pipeline transports 
natural gas from Illinois to Indiana and Michigan, and into Ontario, Canada, linking storage fields in Michigan and Ontario to markets across the Midwest, eastern Canada and the Northeast.
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization
Employees DTE Energy and its subsidiaries had approximately 10,700 employees as of Dec. 31, 2019, of which approximately 49% were represented by unions. 
Operations
DTE Energy
Electric Gas Corporate and Other
Gas Storage and Piplines
Power and Industrial Projects
Energy TradingDTE Gas DTE Electric
DTE Sustainable GenerationNon-utility OperationsPAGE 7
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization (cont.) DTE Gas Pipelines                                                                                  DTE Energy Service Territories
 
Net Revenue and Total Capitalization  
The following Consolidated Statement of Operations is for the year ending Dec. 31, 2019. Numbers are in millions except for per-share amounts. For additional financial detail, please see DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2019. 
Total Capitalization (debt & equity breakdown):  
For additional financial detail, please see DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2019. 
GRI 102-8 Information on employees and 
other workersDTE Energy’s workforce in 2019 totaled approximately 10,700 full time employees, with unions representing 49% of this workforce. All DTE Energy employees work in the United States - primarily in Michigan.
PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES FEMALE MALE
Regular 2,803 8,013
Temporary 153 202
FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES BY GENDER FEMALE MALE
Full-time Regular 2,781 7,925
Part-time Regular 17 4PAGE 8
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-9 Supply chain DTE Energy views its suppliers as strategic partners in the company’s success. DTE Energy expects those with whom the company does 
business to share the same values and principles that enable DTE Energy to enjoy an excellent reputation within the communities it serves. DTE Energy’s supply chain includes products and services to support operations, fuel supply (including natural gas and nuclear) and purchase power. 
Products and Services 
In 2019, 4,381 suppliers were in DTE Energy’s companywide supply chain. The following includes the supplier count associated with DTE Energy’s lines of business. Some DTE Energy suppliers contract with multiple lines of DTE Energy businesses.
Corporate Services  382
Distribution Operations  493
Energy Gas  51
Energy Waste Reduction  424
Fossil Generation  682
Gas Storage and Pipelines  46Major Enterprise Projects  515
Nuclear Generation  370
Power and Industrial  1,418
DTE’s 4,381 suppliers in 2019 were located in 47 states. The monetary value of payments made to suppliers by DTE Energy in 2019 
was more than $3.4 billion. DTE Energy managed supplier relationships and expectations through more than 140 supplier performance scorecards and periodic executive reviews to measure performance and develop corrective actions. In addition, DTE also conducted executive forums and reviews with top suppliers and senior leadership. 
DTE Energy is a nationwide leader in supplier diversity, emphasizing the importance of contracting with women-, veteran- and minority-
owned firms, which have diversified the company’s supplier base. In 2019, DTE Energy spent $609 million with diverse vendors and earned 14 industry-wide awards for its commitment to supplier diversity. We encourage suppliers to have the same commitment in their use of materials and services from their own base of diverse suppliers and contractors. PAGE 9
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-9 Supply chain (cont.) In 2019, DTE Energy contracted with suppliers providing products and services in 30 standard categories:
Bulk Gas and Chemicals Construction Electrical
Engineering Environmental Equipment
Facilities Fleet Materials Fleet Services
Heating-Ventilation-Air Conditioning Home Protection Program Information Technology
Instrumentation Maintenance Maintenance Materials
Metering Services Meters Miscellaneous-Other
Maintenance, Repair and Operations Oil Filled Equipment Personnel
Petroleum Pipes, Valves and Fittings Power Generation Production Materials
Professional Services Pumps, Motors and Generators Safety
 
Fuel Supply and Natural Gas Supply For additional information on DTE’s supply chain, please see DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2019: Fuel Supply and Purchased Power, page 9 and Natural Gas Supply, page 12.
Learn more about DTE’s supply chain management.
GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the 
organization and its supply chain
Gulf Coast Region 
In December 2019, DTE’s Gas Storage and Pipelines business completed the acquisition of the Blue Union gathering system and LEAP gathering pipeline in the Haynesville shale formation of Louisiana, which provide access to growing Gulf Coast markets. The assets serve multiple markets, including Louisiana, the nation’s third largest natural gas consumer, and the Gulf Coast, where demand for natural gas is rapidly increasing in the power, industrial and liquified natural gas (LNG) export sectors. Furthermore, they are strategically located to meet this increasing demand given their proximity and access to multiple major downstream pipelines with bi-directional capability.
See the DTE Energy Company 10-K for the Year Ending Dec. 31, 2019, Note 4 - Acquisitions, pages 85-89.
GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or 
approach
For additional information on risks associated with DTE Energy’s sustainability and climate change plans, see DTE Energy’s annual 
Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report. 
See the DTE Energy Company 10-K for the Year Ending Dec. 31, 2019, Item 1A., Risk Factors, pages 20-25.PAGE 10
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-12 External initiatives DTE Energy follows or subscribes to numerous voluntary environmental, social and governance charters, guidelines and standards 
including:
•
 ISO 14001 Envir
onmental Management System
•
 CE
O Climate Dialogue
•
 Envir
onmental Protection Agency Natural Gas Star and Methane Challenge Programs 
•
 Edison Electric Institute and American Gas Associa
tion ESG Template
•
 Wildlife Habita
t Council Certification
•
 Envir
onmental Protection Agency WasteWise
•
 Michigan Department of Envir
onment, Great Lakes, and Energy - Clean Corporate Citizen Michigan
•
 Business P
ollution Prevention Partnership (MBP3)
•
 Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance
•
 Michigan Economic De
velopment Corporation Pure Michigan Business Connect 
•
 CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosur
e Project)
GRI 102-13 Membership of associations DTE Energy has representation in various associations, councils and organizations involving and representing stakeholders of industry and professional importance. The list of organizations to which DTE Energy belongs represents affiliations with leading utility-relevant industry and professional groups. DTE Energy representatives are board members in some of these organizations and those relationships are used to communicate DTE Energy operational plans, benchmark best practices for organizational management, and understand and influence legislative and policy agendas.
See Industry Associations and National Advocacy Organizations table. 
GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision 
maker
Video message from Jerry Norcia, president and chief executive officer, DTE Energy
GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and 
opportunitiesSee DTE Energy’s 10-K for Year Ending Dec. 31, 2019. For risk-specific information, see: Item 1A., Risk Factors, pages 20-25.Also see DTE Energy’s annual Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report.A description of DTE Energy’s material sustainability issues is included in this GRI Report under Standard 102-47 .PAGE 11
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 
norms of behaviorAspiration 
DTE Energy strives to be the best-operated energy company in North America and a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where its employees live and serve. Building upon a 150-year history, DTE is progressing toward this aspiration by continually emphasizing collaboration among employees, urging all to stay connected to the company’s purpose by focusing on DTE Energy’s seven company priorities and expecting every employee to integrate company values in their daily work.
Purpose 
“We serve with our energy, the lifeblood of communities and the engine of progress.” This sense of purpose – remembering why DTE Energy exists – gives work at DTE Energy a unique meaning for every employee. It is a source of inspiration and strength.
Values 
Intended to guide how DTE Energy employees and contractors think about the company, the way they work and how they interact with one another, these “rules of the road” are meant to guide all decisions and actions; to be intentionally embraced and acted upon with conviction.
We put the health and safety of people first… and know this responsibility rests with each of us. 
We act with integrity and show respect… and understand this defines our company’s character. We see our work through the eyes of those we serve… and know that our work is a powerful means to serve others. We bring our best energy and focus to our work… and are fully engaged and accountable for results. We believe that improvement is our daily responsibility… and know those we serve have the right to expect that from us. We play to win as a team... and put the needs of our enterprise first. We are passionate about the success of our company… and know that its health and growth generate prosperity. 
Priorities 
Used to drive toward achieving DTE Energy’s aspiration, these seven connected company priorities interact and influence one another as a reinforcing system. These priorities summarize DTE Energy’s corporate priorities as strategic drivers and how they connect to propel the company toward a strong, sustainable future. Success depends in large part upon growth and prosperity among the customers and communities served by DTE Energy. 
Code of Conduct  
The DTE Energy Way, the code of conduct on which all employees are trained beginning the first day on the job, is the highest level of policy for all employees. It guides how employees behave on the job to ensure their activities are consistent with DTE Energy values. The DTE Energy Way is detailed in an extensive section on DTE’s intranet; the content highlights several focus areas, including defining DTE Energy values, asking questions, seeking help and reporting concerns of harassment, conflicts of interest, and insider trading. DTE Energy also has a supplier code of conduct to ensure its business partners adhere to the same standards.PAGE 12
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethicsDTE Energy promotes an ethical culture among employees properly grounded in company values. This emphasis on ethics and values 
starts with DTE Energy’s board of directors and extends throughout the company. The DTE Energy Code of Ethics is published on DTE Energy’s public website, along with the Board of Directors Mission and Guidelines, Board Codes and Policies, and Categorical Standards for Director Independence. An officer code of business conduct also exists for executive officers leading the company.
DTE Energy’s Ethics and Compliance Office promotes a culture of integrity, respect and compliance with laws and regulations. In addition 
to training and communicating with all employees to provide guidance and reinforcement of DTE’s policies, ethics ambassadors are embedded within business groups companywide. These ambassadors are an in-department resource for employees seeking guidance.
A list of ethics ambassadors, including names, titles and email addresses, is published on DTE's intranet. Beyond these peer experts 
assigned in every DTE Energy business unit, DTE Energy employees can learn about and seek information on ethical concerns through extensive web-based resources on the company’s intranet. Resources include a downloadable DTE Energy Ethics in Action pamphlet, which details ways to learn about ethical concerns at DTE Energy, pinpoints examples of questionable behavior and provides reporting options. Provided to all new DTE Energy employees during onboarding as well as at business unit training sessions, this pamphlet and additional content comprise an Ethics and Compliance section on the company’s intranet. 
DTE Energy’s Ethics in Action Program, administered by the Ethics and Compliance Office, promotes a “speak-up” culture by providing 
mechanisms for employees, retirees, vendors, customers, shareholders and the public to report suspected non-compliance or work practices inconsistent with DTE Energy standards and values. This independent system for questionable, unethical and illegal behavior has five reporting pathways including though the company’s intranet and public website, via phone (24/7), by mail and directly informing the business unit leader, Human Resources, or the DTE Energy Ethics and Compliance Office. An independent third party operates DTE Energy’s Ethics in Action Helpline through which individuals can make confidential and, if desired, anonymous reports. This third-party vendor, NAVEX Global, operates EthicsPoint® web and phone reporting channels. These hotlines are open to the public. Anyone can report any issue of concern, including a potential violation of policy, inappropriate use of DTE Energy equipment, concerns about purchasing practices, or harassment, among others. Every contact is acted upon and investigated.
In addition to Ethics and Compliance programs, DTE Energy and its unions jointly manage a grievance procedure which is defined by the 
collective bargaining agreements for represented employees. Additionally, DTE Energy manages a dispute resolution process for non-represented employees.
GRI 102-18 Governance structure
The DTE Energy governance structure consists of a board of directors and committees of the board of directors. The DTE Energy Bylaws 
describe how the company will operate with regard to shareholders, the board of directors and board committees, officers, stock and other matters. Elected annually by shareholders, the DTE Energy board meets regularly to lead the company in fulfilling its mission and achieving its goals. With respect to economic, environmental and social issues, the DTE Energy board:
•
 Bears r
esponsibility for oversight of plans to create long-term value for shareholders while ensuring that the company operates in 
an environmentally sensitive and socially responsible manner.
•
 Ov
ersees company management and assesses the effectiveness of management policies and decisions, including management’s 
development and execution of the company’s strategies.
•
 Appr
oves all major environmental initiatives.PAGE 13
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-18 Governance structure (cont.) Information on DTE Energy’s board members, committees, bylaws and other governance resources is on the Governance page of DTE 
Energy’s public website and in the 2020 Proxy Statement, beginning on page 12. 
The Corporate Governance Committee is tasked with reviewing risks associated with the company’s governance practices and the 
interaction of the company’s governance with enterprise risk-level management. The Organization and Compensation Committee is responsible for reviewing and assessing the effectiveness of the policies and programs promoting diversity, equity and inclusion among DTE’s employees and officers.
The Public Policy and Responsibility Committee (PPRC) is tasked with reviewing the company’s performance as a responsible corporate 
citizen and promoting policies to enable the company to respond appropriately to its social responsibilities. The PPRC advises the Board of Directors on emerging ESG issues, including climate change.
The Board sub-committees report related topics to the full board of directors at every board meeting. DTE senior management team:
•
 Ex
ecutes the company’s ESG strategy in consultation with the board of directors.
•
 Manages envir
onmental compliance processes and carbon-reduction strategy.
•
 Manages the pr
ogress of diversity and inclusion strategy through the oversight of the Executive Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
Steering Committee.
•
 Mobiliz
es employees, resources and partner organizations to strengthen and promote prosperity in our communities. 
•
 R
eports the outcomes of ESG initiatives to the Board of Directors.
•
 Manages risks and opportunities associa
ted with environmental and sustainability initiatives.
•
 R
eceives compensation tied to achievement of company goals, including ESG targets.
Also see DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report”, Governance, page 14.
GRI 102-19 Delegating Authority See DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report”, Governance, page 14.
GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 
economic, environmental and 
social topicsSee DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report”, Governance, page 14.  PAGE 14
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest 
governance bodyAll but two of DTE’s directors are independent; the company’s executive chairman and president and chief executive officer are the only 
management directors.
Average Tenure: 8.1 yearsTENURE
> 11 Years 
25%
8 - 11 Years 
33%4 - 7 
Years
8%
< 4 Years  
33%AGE
Average Age: 65.2 years> 70
17%65 - 69  
41%
60 - 64  
33%< 60  
8%GENDER
Woman 
25%
Men 
75%ETHNICITY
African
American 
17%
White
 83%
GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest 
governance body (cont.)Board Diversity For information on other significant positions held by DTE Energy board members and their competencies relating to economic, environmental and social topics, visit the 2020 Proxy Statement, on page 12.
GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance 
body
Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “Election of the Chairman and the CEO; Lead independent Director” on page 28.
GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the 
highest governance body Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “Election of Directors and Vacancies ” on page 26.
GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest Details can be found on DTE Energy’s Corporate Governance page.
GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body 
in setting purpose, values, and strategyDetails can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “Board of Directors Risk Oversight Functions ” on page 33, “Corporate 
Governance ” on page 31 and “Public Policy and Responsibility Committee ” on page 32.
GRI 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest 
governance bodyDetails can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “Election of Directors and Vacancies” on page 12 and “Public Policy and Responsibility Committee ” on page 32.
GRI 102-28 Evaluating the highest 
governance body’s performance Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “ Assessment of Board and Committee Performance ” on page 28. 
GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing 
economic, environmental, and social impactsDetails can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “Board of Directors Risk Oversight Functions ” on page 33. 
GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management process Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “Board of Directors Risk Oversight Functions ” on page 33. 
GRI 102-31 Review of economic, 
environmental, and social topicsDetails can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “Public Policy and Responsibility Committee ” on page 32.PAGE 15
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 
sustainability reportingDetails can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “Public Policy and Responsibility Committee ” on page 32.
GRI 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “Communications with the Board” on page 30.
GRI 102-34 Nature and total number of 
critical concernsDetails can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “Communications with the Board” on page 30.
GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement. For Board see “Board of Directors Compensation ” on page 34 and for 
Executives see “Executive Compensation ” on page 45.
GRI 102-36 Process for determining 
remunerationDetails can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement. For Board see “Board of Directors Compensation ” on page 34 and for 
Executives see “Executive Compensation ” on page 45.
GRI 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in 
remunerationDetails can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement. For Board see “Board of Directors Compensation ” on page 34 and for 
Executives see “Executive Compensation ” on page 45 and “Proposal No. 3 - Advisory Proposal - Nonbinding Vote to Approve Executive 
Compensation ” on page 43.
GRI 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Details can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “CEO Pay Ratio ” on page 72.
GRI 102-39 Percentage increase in annual 
total compensation ratioDetails can be found in DTE Energy’s 2020 Proxy Statement under “CEO Pay Ratio ” on page 72.
GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups DTE Energy engages stakeholders through a variety of channels that facilitate meaningful dialogue around topics of mutual interest. The 
table listed in the appendix highlights some of the most significant ways we communicate with stakeholders. The last column in the table describes the material issues each group is most interested in, based on interactions and what we hear from stakeholders. Click each topic to view the report section that covers DTE Energy’s programs and performance in that area.
Please see the Stakeholder Engagement Table.
GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 49% of DTE Energy’s full-time employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting 
stakeholdersDTE Energy’s stakeholder engagement process involves outreach to people and organizations that affect or can be affected by company 
decisions. The stakeholders with whom DTE Energy interacts may support or oppose company decisions, but regardless of their stance, DTE Energy believes everyone benefits from the exchange of information and open dialogue. DTE Energy’s ongoing membership and participation in energy policy organizations, state and national trade associations, industry and customer advocacy coalitions, and other groups, help the company identify stakeholders, particularly as new issues emerge in the industry. PAGE 16
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting 
stakeholders (cont.)DTE Energy’s community outreach and regional manager teams engage hundreds of neighborhood groups, nonprofits, multicultural 
organizations and faith-based institutions throughout the company’s service area, to understand and elevate community issues relevant to DTE Energy’s operations.
These teams are also activated to support specific projects, such as the demolition of Conners Creek Power Plant in Detroit in 2019. To 
ensure the local community was aware of the demolition and felt safe and supported throughout the process, DTE conducted direct outreach to nearby residents, attended local community meetings and provided a direct channel to DTE to address questions, concerns and impacts related to the demolition. As a result of proactive outreach, customer concerns were addressed, yielding positive reaction from the residents and no legislative or MPSC complaints.
DTE Energy maintains Community Advisory Councils in southeast Michigan and western Michigan, each of which consist of 10-15 
community leaders who meet several times a year along with DTE Energy’s c-suite and Corporate External Affairs teams, comprising the company's Corporate Communications, Corporate and Government Affairs and Public Affairs organizations. The council enables the company to identify emerging issues, better understand local perceptions of DTE and improve community relationships. 
DTE identifies elected and appointed government officials at the local, state and federal levels as well as business leaders through the 
Government Affairs team, which is charged with identifying those government, political and business leaders critical to business, services and customers. DTE Energy’s Regulatory Affairs team identifies and engages regulatory stakeholders. 
DTE Energy executives identify potential stakeholders through their service as board members of approximately 100 nonprofits and 
other organizations located in the company’s service territory. DTE’s Supplier Diversity Advisory Council helps identify suppliers with which DTE Energy might do business.
The company also engages with environmental non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to foster working relationships to enhance the 
environment and well-being of the communities. Working together to develop mutual solutions to environmental issues is in everyone’s best interest, DTE engages and serves on the boards of environmental NGOs such as The Nature Conservancy and Southwest Detroit Environmental Vision to bring DTE Energy’s environmental perspective and technical expertise to help address environmental issues.
GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 
engagement
DTE Energy engages stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms that provide meaningful dialogue around topics of mutual interest. For additional information about our approach to stakeholder engagement, please see the Stakeholder Engagement Table and Industry and National Advocacy Associations table.
GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns 
raised with stakeholders
DTE Energy communicates key topics and concerns through several channels, including the Corporate Citizenship Highlights, Empowering Michigan blog posts, the DTE Energy website, the DTE Energy newsroom and through DTE Energy’s social media presence on Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter , Instagram and YouTube. DTE Energy employee communication is primarily through Quest, the company’s 
internal website, email and through all enterprise live broadcasts hosted by DTE President and CEO Jerry Norcia.
For key topics and concerns, please see the Stakeholder Engagement Table. PAGE 17
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 102-45 Entities included in consolidated 
financial statementsAll entities in DTE Energy’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents are covered in this GRI report and DTE’s 10-K.
See DTE Energy Company 10-K for Year Ending Dec. 31, 2019, Consolidated Statements pages 60-73. 
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic 
boundariesThis Corporate Citizenship Report is built around DTE Energy’s material aspects and topics that have a direct or indirect impact on the 
company’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for DTE Energy and its stakeholders and society at large. 
DTE Energy updated its materiality assessment for the 2016-2017 Corporate Citizenship Report to evaluate and prioritize key 
sustainability issues for its business and stakeholders. This update included a benchmarking of five peer companies, interviews with external stakeholders from a variety of organizations and surveys completed by stakeholders within DTE Energy and outside the company. DTE Energy believes the issues identified by stakeholders in the 2017 assessment are still relevant. 
In determining the content for the 2019 Corporate Citizenship Report, DTE Energy applied the principles laid out in the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards. Issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board in late 2016, the GRI Standards are a voluntary global framework, intended for use by organizations to report about their impacts on the economy, the environment and society. 
GRI 102-47 List of material topics
See Materiality in 2016-2017 Corporate Citizenship Report.
GRI 102-48 Restatements of information There are no restatements of information in DTE Energy’s report covering 2018.
GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting There are no changes in reporting in material topics or reporting boundaries compared to last year’s report.
GRI 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2019.
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report Published in summer 2019, DTE Energy’s previous report covered the 2018 calendar year.GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the reportimpact@dteenergy.com
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 
with the GRI StandardsIn accordance with GRI Standards Core option.
GRI 102-55 GRI content index This report lists every GRI Standard disclosure, in numerical order, and includes references to other documents where appropriate. See 
the Table of Contents at the front of this report to navigate to specific sections and pages. 
GRI 102-56 External assurance DTE Energy applied the GRI Standards as the basis for this Corporate Citizenship Report, in accordance with the Core option. This report was reviewed by internal subject matter experts in each GRI disclosure area.PAGE 18
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 100: Universal Standards (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH
DTE Energy manages its material issues in a thoughtful and responsible way. For each topic, the company has internal policies, goals and 
targets that drive improvement. DTE monitors progress through management dashboards to track metrics. The code of business conduct and ethics — the DTE Energy Way — is publicly available in the Corporate Governance section of the company’s website. Many other policies — including health and safety, cybersecurity and diversity and inclusion — are distributed internally. The company has a robust training program that covers in detail the policies relevant to each employee’s duties.
To accompany the 2019 report cycle, DTE has developed a set of narrative briefs that detail various priorities important to DTE and its 
stakeholders. To see the collection of briefs, visit the sustainability performance site. 
DTE Energy’s commitment to continuous improvement (CI) provides us with a framework for evaluating the effectiveness of the 
management approach. The company conducts regular reviews of activities and incorporates lessons learned in a “plan, do, check and act” CI cycle that benefits future projects. 
For more information on DTE Energy’s policies and programs addressing key impacts and material issues, see the 10-K filing with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission and the annual Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report, which is based on the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) industry sector template, and www.dteimpact.com.
GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 
and its boundary
See the 2016-2017 Materiality assessment for more information.
GRI 103-2 The management approach and 
its componentsSee the 2016-2017 Materiality assessment for more information.
GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approachSee the 2016-2017 Materiality assessment for more information.GRI 200: Economic 
> GRI 100: UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 
> GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL> GRI 400: SOCIAL> SECTOR SPECIFIC: ELECTRIC UTILITIES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT> SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIALS
PAGE 20
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 200: Economic PAGE 20STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 200 ECONOMIC
GRI 201 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCEGRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated 
and distributedDirect economic value generated (revenues), economic value distributed (operating costs, employee wages and benefits, payments to 
providers of capital, etc.) and economic value retained (“direct economic value generated” less “economic value distributed”) can be found in the 10-K filing. 
GRI 201-2 Financial implications and risks 
and opportunities due to climate change Please see DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report”, Environmental, pages 3-10. 
Refer to DTE Energy’s "2020 CDP Climate Change" Report – Items C2.3a and C2.4a , pages 7-17 .
GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 
and other retirement plansRefer to DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2019, Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Retirement 
Benefits and Trusteed Assets” .
GRI 203 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and 
services supportedDTE is pleased the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) has approved the company’s Integrated Resource Plan (IRP). The 
company looks forward to continuing to lead and advance Michigan’s transition to a clean energy economy. DTE Energy is the largest investor in, and producer of, renewable energy in Michigan, driving $3 billion in solar and wind energy infrastructure; these are investments that deliver power to serve more than 500,000 households. As one of the first U.S. energy companies to announce a net-zero carbon emissions goal by 2050, DTE is grateful the approved IRP supports the company’s commitment to cut carbon emissions 50% by 2030 and 80% by 2040.
DTE Energy is also investing nearly $4.2 billion in electric infrastructure upgrades over the next four years. These investments are a win 
for customers and communities. They will improve and strengthen the energy grid that delivers safe, reliable and affordable energy to homes and businesses; better prepare Michigan for the future; and create jobs through both DTE Energy hires and partnerships with local contractors and businesses. Improved power quality and reliability, and fewer outages, are expected to provide more than $6 billion-$9 billion of economic benefits to customers. 
Additional details on our sustainability stewardship and infrastructure investments can be found in the following documents:
•
 D
TE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report”, Environmental, pages 3-10.
•
 D
TE Energy Electric Infrastructure Report.
GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic 
impactsWhile DTE Energy is headquartered in Detroit, the company is deeply committed to the communities it serves statewide and works to 
make all of Michigan a better place to live, work and play. DTE believes its efforts are making cities and communities, and the state, better, stronger and more prosperous. 
DTE’s employees serve with their energy in communities where they live and work by volunteering thousands of hours at nonprofit 
organizations across the state, contributing more than $6 million in value to our communities. More than 50% of employees are now engaged in volunteerism, including skills-based volunteerism where their passions can match their purpose, making DTE Energy a “world class” volunteerism company.PAGE 21
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 200: Economic (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic 
impacts (cont.)The company’s work in neighborhoods in and around DTE Energy facilities is making a notable impact. DTE Energy’s Beacon Park opened 
in the summer of 2017 on a parcel of land that was formerly an industrial site surrounded by barbed wire fencing. The park has already attracted more than one million visitors with family-friendly events and concerts. Most importantly, the development of Beacon Park has lived up to its name acting as a beacon to others to invest in the area – more than $140 million to-date. DTE is also working in partnership with neighbors in the historic North End neighborhood of Detroit to help make the vision they have for their neighborhood a reality, working hand-in-glove with the community to beautify the area, make it safer and provide workforce development efforts.
DTE is intentional about supporting Michigan businesses by recruiting them to its supplier base to play our own role in economic 
development. In 2011, the company spent $475 million with Michigan-based suppliers. Today, DTE spends over $2 billion, a four-fold increase. Since making this commitment, the company has created and sustained more than 34,000 local jobs. Since 2013, DTE has spent $2.4 billion with women and minority-owned businesses, including $1.8 billion with Detroit suppliers. To ensure affordability and reliability of electricity far into the future, DTE is diversifying energy sources by building one of the nation’s most efficient natural gas plants and retiring three coal plants by 2022. 
To learn more about what DTE Energy is doing to be a force for growth and prosperity, visit DTEImpact.com.Watch our latest video from our Chairman to see how DTE Energy serves with its energy .
GRI 204 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES
GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local 
suppliers
DTE Energy spent $2.1 billion with Michigan businesses in 2019, creating and sustaining more than 9,800 jobs across the state 
and exceeding the in-state spending goal it made in the spring of 2019 by $600 million. The company also spent $609 million with certified diverse suppliers and captured 14 industry-wide supplier diversity achievement awards. Learn more about DTE’s supply chain management.
To learn more about DTE’s 2019 Michigan Spend, read here. For more information, please visit DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report”, Social, page 12. For additional and historical details, refer to the Performance Data Table. GRI 300: Environmental 
> GRI 100: UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 
> GRI 200: ECONOMIC > GRI 400: SOCIAL> SECTOR SPECIFIC: ELECTRIC UTILITIES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT> SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIALS
PAGE 23
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 300: Environmental PAGE 23STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 301 MATERIALSGRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or 
volumeBelow is a list of the materials/fuel used to produce electricity for DTE Energy in 2019.
Materials/Fuels Units 2019
Coal Tons 14,140,100
Natural gas Mcf 25,703,186
Blast furnace gas tcf 6,271,999
Coke oven gas tcf 2,820,179
No. 2 oil Gallons 4,621,511
No. 6 oil Gallons 6,080
High sulfur oil Gallons 607
GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used In 2019, the St. Clair Power Plant fired 157,513 gallons of No. 6 fuel oil (used oil).GRI 302 ENERGYGRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organization
Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP – Climate Change” – Item C8. “Energy” .
GRI 302- 3 Energy consumption outside of 
the organizationRead more about DTE’s energy efficiency management. 
GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption In 2019, DTE Energy headquarters and service centers reduced their electricity usage by 1.48 million kilowatt-hours (2% compared 
to 2017 electricity usage) as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives. DTE Energy has a company-wide goal to reduce 
electricity usage by 25% by 2022, from a baseline year of 2017. The 2019 energy reduction accounts for 8% of the 25% goal.
DTE Energy utilizes industry standards and methodologies from various organizations such as the American Society of Heating, 
Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), a global professional association seeking to advance heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration systems design and construction, and the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA), a recognized technical and educational authority on illumination, to develop baseline consumption and calculate energy savings. Measurement and verification are also implemented via actual metered consumption.PAGE 24
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 
(cont.)Vehicle Idling 
A cross-functional team is helping to reduce idle time using GPS data while vehicles are parked on DTE properties. Last year, DTE reduced on-property idling by 12%, which saved $600,000 in fuel costs and prevented 4.7 million of tons of carbon dioxide from being discharged into the air; these savings are enough to offset the emissions of 461 passenger cars driven for a year.
Learn more about DTE’s efforts to reduce vehicle idling.
GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy 
requirements of products and 
services Refer to DTE Energy's "2019 Energy Waste Reduction Annual Report" .
GRI 303 WATER
DTE Energy strives to eliminate unnecessary use of water in its facilities and to improve the quality of water discharges. Water stewardship starts with operating our facilities and equipment in a manner that complies with or exceeds governmental standards and protects employees, customers, and surrounding communities. DTE employs practical land-management and conservation techniques to protect and conserve water resources at facilities and properties. 
DTE’s goal is to reduce water withdrawal by 40% in 2023, 60% in 2030, and 90% by 2040. Since 2005, DTE has reduced surface water withdrawals for power generation by 21% by retiring coal-fired power plants (e.g., Conners 
Creek and Harbor Beach Power Plants) that utilize water for cooling, which accomplishes 53% of the 2023 target. DTE projects that surface water withdrawals will continue to decrease in the future as more water efficient systems are installed (e.g., Greenwood’s closed-loop cooling water system) and coal-fired power plants are retired. These water goals are aligned with the company’s goals to reduce carbon emissions from electric generating facilities 32% from a 2005 baseline by 2023, 50%by 2030 and 80% by 2040. These numbers represent current projections and are subject to change in the future.
GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source
Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Water Security Report” – Item W1.2h. “Total Water Withdrawal” .
GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly 
affected by withdrawal of waterRefer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Water Security Report” – Item W5 "Facility-Level Water Accounting” .
GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Water Security Report” – Item W1.2i. “Total Water Discharge” .
GRI 304 BIODIVERSITY
GRI 304-1 Operations sights owned, leased, 
managed in, or adjacent to, 
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areasThe Trenton Channel Power Plant, located in Trenton, Mich., and the Enrico Fermi II Nuclear Generating Station, located in Newport, Mich., are both adjacent to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) International Wildlife Refuge. DTE Energy is part of a cooperative management agreement with the refuge for a total of 656 acres. This property is owned by DTE Energy and managed by USFWS. Part of the refuge includes areas of high biodiversity including important coastal wetlands and forested habitat.PAGE 25
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, 
products, and services on 
biodiversityDTE Energy performs due diligence evaluations on real estate acquisitions or before major construction projects begin on existing properties owned and/or maintained by DTE Energy. These due diligence evaluations include reviews of potential impacts to threatened and endangered species, or other protected natural features. If threatened and endangered species or other regulated features are detected at a site, DTE Energy conducts mitigation activities to avoid and or minimize the impacts in accordance with state or federal law. 
Activities that positively impact biodiversity, such as installation of pollinator gardens, native prairie plantings, birdhouses or bat houses, 
are captured in reports that are submitted to the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) for DTE Energy’s 35 WHC-Certified sites. These reports describe site specific biodiversity goals and metrics that are required by WHC to maintain certification. 
GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or restored
DTE Energy takes care of the land, water and living creatures on its properties and beyond. Among the largest landowners in Michigan, DTE Energy voluntarily maintains 8,000 acres of land in its natural state, thereby providing habitat for hundreds of species of birds, mammals, fish and insects. The company also reclaims previously disturbed land to create and manage habitat featuring native Michigan plants, such as gardens that benefit the monarch butterfly and other pollinators. It also manages about 140 acres to support biodiversity required for mitigation. 
Wildlife Habitat Council Certified Sites 
DTE Energy properties are home to hundreds of species of wildlife, some of which are endangered or threatened. DTE Energy facilities are often located on properties with abundant opportunities for wildlife and DTE Energy is helping to attract and increase wildlife populations at these sites. To this end, DTE Energy has 34 sites certified under the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), a nonprofit organization that helps companies manage their property for the benefit of wildlife. 
Please refer to the table in the appendix. 
GRI 304-4 IUCN Red List species and 
national conservation list species 
with habitats in areas affected by operationsThere are currently three federally listed species impacted by DTE Energy’s operations. These species include the Indiana bat (endangered), northern long-eared bat (threatened) and Eastern Massasauga bat (threatened). The Eastern Massasauga bat can be found at the Fermi II Nuclear Power Plant. It should be noted the site’s operations may actually benefit the species due to large areas of habitat created on site, as well as an information and awareness campaign.
GRI 305 EMISSIONS
For more information on the journey to Net Zero, visit DTECleanEnergy.com and DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report”, Environmental, pages 3- 10.
Read more about DTE’s clean energy transformation.
GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C5. “Emissions Methodology” . 
Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C6.1. “Scope 1 Emissions” . 
Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C7.1a. “Scope 1 Emissions by Greenhouse Gas Type” . 
Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C7.3a. “Scope 1 Emissions by Business Division” .PAGE 26
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 
(cont.)Reducing vehicle idling and carbon emissions  
In 2019, DTE reduced the amount of on-property vehicle idle time by 12%, avoiding 4.7 million pounds of carbon dioxide emissions and saving $600,000 in fuel costs. The company prioritized reducing idling times of vehicles parked on DTE properties, which represent 65% of total idle time. Because workers must start their trucks to operate job-critical auxiliary functions, the on-property focus avoided work-site interruptions and improved fuel efficiency. 
DTE accomplished this reduction using a variety of tactics including GPS analysis, low-cost employee communications such as posters 
and best-practice sheets and behavior modifications. DTE is continuing this focus in 2020.
For a breakdown of DTE Electric’s direct GHG emissions which make-up more than 90% of DTE Energy’s direct emissions, refer to DTE 
Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report”, EEI ESG/Sustainability Template – Section 2: Quantitative Information - Emissions, page 16.
GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions
Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C6.3. “Scope 2 Emissions” .
GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 
emissionsRefer to DTE Energy’s "2020 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C6.5. “Scope 3 Emissions” .
GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C6.10. “Combined Scope 1 and 2 Emissions Intensity” .
GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Climate Change Report” – Item C4.1a. “Emissions Targets and Progress” .
Refer to DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report,” Environmental, page 3. 
For more information on the journey to Net Zero, visit DTECleanEnergy.com.
GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur 
oxides (SO), and other significant 
air emissionsDTE Energy has reduced its annual carbon emissions nearly 30% since 2005 and plans to achieve net-zero carbon emissions in its electric utility by 2050. This net-zero goal sets the framework for DTE to go beyond existing commitments to reduce carbon emissions 50% by 2030 and 80% by 2040 as it retires its last coal plant.
Percent Reduction from 2005: 
2019 2023 2031 2040
SO2 82% 87% >99% >99%
NOx 73% 80% 93% 96%
Hg 91% 92% >99% >99%
PM 83% 85% 86% 95%PAGE 27
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur 
oxides (SO), and other significant 
air emissions (cont.)Improving air quality in the communities where DTE’s employees live and serve is among the company’s top priorities. DTE Energy invested more than $2.4 billion in environmental control technologies to reduce emissions from power plants through 2017. These efforts have reduced emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) by 82%, nitrogen oxide (NOx) by 73%, mercury by 91% and particulate matter by 83% in 2019 when compared to a 2005 baseline. These emissions will continue to decrease as DTE retires its coal plants. In addition, the company’s internal environmental audit programs help keep DTE accountable and drive improvement. DTE Energy’s International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 certified facilities undergo annual environmental management system conformance audits as well. See emissions reduction chart on the previous page.
Refer to DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report”, EEI ESG Sustainability Template – Section 2: 
Quantitative Information - Emissions, page 20.
GRI 306 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
Fly ash and bottom ash are byproducts of the coal burned in power plants. Synthetic gypsum is a byproduct of the flue gas desulfurization (FGD) units that reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired plants. These coal combustion residual (CCR) materials — ash and synthetic gypsum — are recycled to the greatest extent possible. The portion of the CCR not recyclable is disposed in state and federally regulated landfills and impoundments. DTE Energy’s ash recycling rates dropped starting in 2016 as the company brought sorbent injection and activated carbon emission controls online to meet the Mercury and Air Toxic Standards (MATS) rule. The presence of sorbents and activated carbon in coal ash reduces its acceptability for beneficial reuse.
Gypsum is used as a component in drywall manufacturing and as a beneficial additive in agriculture. In 2019, DTE Energy recycled 100% 
of the gypsum produced at its power plants.
DTE Energy operates three licensed landfills to dispose of unrecycled fly ash and CCR. Each coal plant has on-site facilities for managing 
CCR before it is recycled or disposed. These landfills operate in compliance with applicable state and federal laws and are routinely inspected by state and local regulatory agencies. DTE Energy assesses the condition of its facilities and equipment on a regular basis and conducts maintenance and repairs as necessary to maintain structural integrity and operational performance.
Read more about DTE’s remediation in “A Clean Start from the Ground Up” .
GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and 
destination
Refer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Water Security Report” – Item W1.2i. “Total Water Discharge” .
GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 
methodDTE Energy’s pollution prevention programs help minimize environmental impacts and conserve resources by reducing the volume of 
waste that would otherwise go to landfills for disposal. DTE Energy also recovers used oil for energy across the its gas and electric utilities. In addition, DTE Energy captured food and paper waste at its Detroit headquarters campus, diverting these waste streams from landfills.
DTE performs audits of Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facility (TSDF) vendors to ensure that waste generated by the company is 
managed in accordance with environmental regulations for disposal of waste.PAGE 28
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 
method (cont.)HAZARDOUS WASTE TONS
Recycling 0.08
Recovery 0.00
Fuel Blending 0.13
Incineration 10.34
Landfill 9.77
TOTAL 20.31
OTHER WASTES TONS
Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) 78.87
Asbestos 125.24
Universal Waste 74.59
OTHER WASTE DIVERSIONS
Composting 42 tons
Waste to energy (incineration) 264 tons
Used Oil 213,279 gallons
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTES (RECYCLED) TONS
Gypsum 428,901
Fly and Bottom Ash 229,163
Copper 740
Lead 804
Aluminum 208
Steel / Ferrous – Electric Operations 2,407
Steel / Ferrous – Gas Operations 432
Non-Ferrous / Wire Bundles 266PAGE 29
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 
method (cont.)NON-HAZARDOUS WASTES (RECYCLED) (cont.) TONS
Non-Ferrous (e.g. transformers) 1,549
Miscellaneous Metals 1,530
Meters – Electric 61
Meters – Gas 304
Outage Materials (e.g. poles, wires, equipment from storms) 1,677
Plastic (HDPE) 32
Scrap Electronics 60
Transformer Oil 386 (102,998 gallons)
Cardboard 257
Wood (e.g. poles, pallets) 387
Paper 310
GRI 306-5 Water bodies affected by water 
discharges and/or runoffRefer to DTE Energy’s “2020 CDP - Water Security Report” – Item W5 “Facility-Level Water Accounting” .
GRI 307 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and 
regulationsDTE Electric and DTE Gas Gas Storage and Pipeline DTE Power and Industrial Total
Total monetary value 
of fines in 2019$0 $0 $8,500 $8,500
Total number of sanctions in 2019 14 violation notices 8 violation notices 10 violation notices 32 violation 
noticesPAGE 30
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 300: Environmental (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 308 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using environmental 
criteriaBecause many of the products and services DTE purchases are unique to its industry, DTE Energy is a charter member of The Electric Utility Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance. Formed more than 10 years ago, the alliance is a group of electric utilities focused on developing a more environmentally friendly supply chain. The group shares best practices and promotes and develops sustainable solutions for businesses. 
The Sustainability Project (TSP) is one of the largest initiatives with the alliance. TSP is an online survey tool to help suppliers identify, 
benchmark, plan and prioritize sustainable business practices. DTE encourages suppliers to complete the survey and implement an improvement plan to advance their carbon emission reductions. In 2019, 89 suppliers completed the TSP survey and 30% of them completed an improvement action plan.
Supplier sustainability 2019 highlights:
•
 In Mar
ch, DTE Energy sponsored a webinar on sustainable business practices through the Michigan Minority Supplier 
Development Council. Participants learned about the benefits of sustainability and gained understanding on how to prepare for 
customer inquiries about sustainable business practices. 
•
 In A
ugust, DTE Energy sent a letter to 200 of the largest suppliers explaining the benefits of the company’s MIGreenPower 
voluntary renewable energy program. 
•
 In No
vember, Chief Procurement Officer Tony Tomczak was named 2020 chairman of the alliance for the second time. He also 
served as chairman in 2017 and 2018. 
Learn more about DTE’s supply chain management.GRI 400: Social 
> GRI 100: UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 
> GRI 200: ECONOMIC > GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL> SECTOR SPECIFIC: ELECTRIC UTILITIES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT> SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIALS
PAGE 32
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 400: Social PAGE 32STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 400 SOCIAL
GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT Learn more about DTE’s human capital management. 
GRI 401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnoverGENDER OF NEW HIRES NUMBER PERCENT OF TOTAL
Female 242 27%
Male 671 73%
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER AGENUMBER OF 
DEPARTURESPERCENT OF BEGINNING OF 2019 HEADCOUNT
Under 30 110 9%
30-50 194 4%
Over 50 520 12%
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER GENDERNUMBER OF DEPARTURESPERCENT OF BEGINNING OF 2019 HEADCOUNT
Female 256 9%
Male 586 7%
GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided 
to temporary or part-time employeesDTE Energy provides competitive, customizable benefits for all regular full-time and regular part-time (and, in the case of health care, temporary) employees and is committed to providing employees with the resources they need to lead healthier lifestyles, including an on-site clinic and fitness center. 
DTE Energy offers a Healthy Behavior Incentive Program, which rewards employees in terms of reduced medical premiums for biometric 
screenings, completion of a Health Risk Assessment and participation in health education on disease management programs. DTE Energy offers Consumer Driven Health Plans (CDHPs) in addition to regular programs. CDHPs provide benefits that help consumers maintain and improve their health. CDHPs offer a full array of products giving employers and their employees more options. They provide customized transitional products and integrated Health Savings Accounts with the same typical benefits of a PPO plan plus a chance to earn dollars by taking steps that can help you achieve your health potential. 
Additional innovative compensation and benefits initiatives at DTE Energy include:
•
 A 401(k) plan/ESOP tha
t is available to all regular full-time and regular part-time employees.
•
 A
utomatic enrollment of new hires in the 401(k) plan.PAGE 33
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 400: Social (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided 
to temporary or part-time employees (cont.)• A utomatic annual escalation of employee 401(k) contributions, up to 10% of pay.
•
 Gener
ous 401(k) matching contributions. 
•
 Annual participa
tion in America Saves Week, with daily financial education messages and the opportunity to participate in a 
challenge to win up to 50 shares of DTE Energy stock.
•
 Child bonding lea
ves of absence.
•
 A
dditional vacations days are available for employee purchase.
•
 Competitiv
e incentive plans are offered to all non-represented employees to create alignment of corporate and individual 
goals. 
DTE Energy offers several programs and services that target a variety of chronic conditions and lifestyle behaviors. Specifically, 
telephone, online and on-site coaching programs, monthly educational webinars and physical activity online tools. Through the company’s well-being partner, DTE employees, retirees and their families are offered a number of opportunities to get engaged through different mediums, flexible operating hours and targeted programming to meet the needs of each individual. Employees and spouses can earn entries in quarterly drawings for significant prizes such as shopping sprees, gym membership, fitness related equipment and more or, alternatively, gift cards.
For additional benefits for full-time employees: 
Please refer to the Benefits page.
For additional health and wellness benefits for all employees: 
Please refer to the Health and wellness page. 
GRI 401-3 Parental leave DTE Energy is committed to supporting employees who are experiencing the life-changing journey of expanding their families, whether through birth, adoption, fostering or guardianship. In 2018, DTE Energy implemented a Parental Leave Program which is designed to provide paid time off to eligible employees for these events and is intended to be a supplement to the Non-Represented Time Off Program. This program is for regular full-time and regular part-time non-represented employees of DTE Energy Company and its subsidiaries. Eligible employees receive up to four weeks of company-paid child-bonding leave that can be can be taken all at once or intermittently, on a schedule agreed upon in advance between an employee and their leader, as a supplement to the non-represented employees time off program.
GRI 402 LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
DTE Energy has regular meetings during which union and company leaders share opportunities for improving operations, customer service and employee engagement – and work together to develop and implement solutions. These meetings occur at all levels of leadership, and the open and inclusive communication is key to a successful partnership.
Read more about DTE’s labor management. PAGE 34
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 400: Social (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
GRI 403-1 Workers representation in formal 
joint management-worker health 
and safety committeesThe health and safety of people is DTE Energy’s top priority. Employees are empowered to stop work – or decide not to start it – if they determine the job is unsafe. The safer everyone works, the safer employees, customers and the public are– helping to ensure the delivery of vital energy that fuels the communities the company serves. 
GRI 403-1 Workers representation in formal 
joint management-worker health and safety committees (cont.)
DTE Energy’s safety culture is maintained and strengthened with the help of multiple safety committees spanning all levels of the company. Members include union representatives, DTE Energy executives, office workers and field employees. Concerns are welcomed and suggestions for improvement are encouraged. Seasonal safety plans are developed and implemented to address the unique challenges of each business unit. 
All workplace injuries – and incidents that could have caused an injury – are documented and thoroughly reviewed for potential 
preventive measures. Employees know they are responsible for their own safety and the safety of everyone around them. In 2018, the company expanded its safety culture to include contractors who are held to the same standards. 
Learn more about how DTE practices safety during a crisis. 
GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of 
injury, occupational diseases, 
lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities
2019
OSHA recordable incident 0.81
DART 0.52
Fatalities DTE Energy had no fatalities in 2019Injury Type 2019 Incidents 
Burns 3
Caught in, Crushed, Pinched 7
Cut by Object 16
Exposure - Arc Flash 3
Exposure - caustics, noxious, or toxic 2
Exposure - Insects 3
Eye Injury 5
Fall from elevation 4
Overexertion 17
Slip, Trip, Fall 14
Struck by/against 13PAGE 35
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 400: Social (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or 
high risk of diseases related to 
their occupationIndustrial hygiene is an area of employee occupational health and safety that receives intense focus. In addition to thorough training about such potential hazards as lead, mercury and asbestos, certain employees – due to the nature of their jobs – receive periodic precautionary testing to ensure they are not absorbing unhealthy levels of harmful substances.
GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered 
in formal agreements with trade unions
Please refer to GRI standard 403-1, paragraph 2. 
GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION For more information on DTE Energy’s scope of youth and adult talent pipeline programs see DTE’s human capital management.
GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per 
year per employeeType of training Number 
of hours
Technical and compliance training 416,271 
Average number of hours per employee (including full time employees and contractors) 28.33 
 Average hours are based on 14,692 employees, including contractors, co-ops, and those who retired in 2019. 
GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programsFor more information on developing our talent see DTE’s human capital management.
GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance reviews and career development reviews100% of non-represented, regular employees have an opportunity to participate in goal setting at the beginning of the year, mid-year evaluations to review progress toward performance and development goals, and year-end reviews that focus on performance and development. Depending when an employee is hired into the company, the full, annual review process may be pushed to the next review period. “Regular” employees do not include temporary personnel, contractors, interns, students or seasonal staff.
GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 
and employees
Male Female Under 30 
years of 
Age 30-50 Years of AgeOver 50 Years of Age Minority Percentage
DTE Energy Board 77% 23% 0% 0% 100% 23%
Executives and Seniors Leaders 81% 19% 0% 13% 88% 19%
Managers and Supervisors 77% 23% 2% 57% 41% 23%
Individual Contributors/Workers 73% 27% 14% 50% 36% 30%PAGE 36
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 400: Social (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and 
remuneration of women to menDTE Energy is committed to offering compensation that is competitive, market driven and internally equitable. To ensure this, DTE 
Energy conducts an annual review of compensation practices as part of its affirmative action programs. Approximately half of DTE Energy’s employees are represented by unions through which pay is uniformly determined through contracts regardless of an employee’s gender. For non-represented employees, DTE Energy’s human resources professionals establish pay ranges for each job classification and work with hiring leaders to make competitive offers within the range to candidates based on objective factors like years of experience and strength of skills relevant to the job.
GRI 406 NON-DISCRIMINATION
GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and 
corrective actions taken
DTE Energy takes all reports of discrimination, harassment and retaliation seriously. All reported concerns are fully investigated and 
appropriate action is taken in every situation where inappropriate behavior is substantiated.
Refer to 102-17 for DTE’s policy on ethics and compliance.
GRI 407 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
DTE Energy, is committed to providing all employees, including 49% who are members of labor unions, with competitive wages and 
benefits, safe working conditions and opportunities to learn and grow while working together toward achieving the company’s aspiration to be the best-operated energy company in North America and a force for growth and prosperity in the communities where employees live and serve.
DTE Energy has regular meetings where union and company leaders share opportunities for improving operations, customer service and 
employee engagement – and work together to develop and implement solutions. These meetings occur at all levels of leadership, and the open and inclusive communication is key to successful partnerships.
GRI 413 LOCAL COMMUNITIES
GRI 413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessment, 
and development programs
100% of DTE Gas and DTE Electric operations perform local community engagement, impact assessment, and/or development programs. Additional information can be found in DTE Energy’s annual Environmental, Social, Governance, and Sustainability Report and on DTEimpact.
GRI 414 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteria
In 2018, DTE Energy introduced a safety program in which contractors must participate to remain – or become – business partners with 
the company. They are required to maintain a certain level of safety and report their safety metrics in Avetta, a tracking system used by companies globally to monitor and audit performance. DTE Energy works with contractors individually and as a group to help them adhere to safety standards and improve their processes for the benefit of their employees, DTE Energy’s employees and customers, and the public. Contractors can find safety standards in DTE Energy’s Safety Handbook for Contractors and Contractor Employees or Agents. 
The DTE Energy Corporate Safety team has since added a safety element to the Diverse Supplier Mentorship Program by initiating 
Occupational Safety & Health workshops. These collaborative efforts are designed to share proven utility-based programs with the supply base to raise overall safety performance, thus expanding 200% accountability (100% accountability for oneself and 100% accountability for the safety of others) to all workers at DTE Energy sites.PAGE 37
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2GRI 400: Social (cont.) STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
GRI 415 PUBLIC POLICY
GRI 415-1 Political contributions For more information, see DTE’s political contribution management.
GRI 416 CUSTOMER HEALTH SAFETYGRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and 
safety impacts of product and 
service categories100% of DTE’s gas and electric operations are continuously being monitored for health and safety improvements.
Learn more about DTE’s safety management.
GRI 418 CUSTOMER PRIVACY
GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer dataDTE Energy’s IT and Ethics personnel hold an annual meeting with members of the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) staff to provide a verbal report that addresses the company’s cybersecurity and IT risk planning. In addition to this initiative, DTE Energy also communicates any exposures of customers’ personally identifiable information, or PII, to MPSC staff, and any cyber-attacks to both MPSC staff and the Michigan Fusion Center, which is a collaboration between the Michigan State Police, FBI, Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, and other organizations. The timing of these communications, per the order, are to occur as soon as reasonable, practicable and prior to any public notification. In practice, DTE Energy has these communications with MPSC staff once DTE Energy is reasonably certain of the following:
•
 Ho
w the incident happened.
•
 Ho
w the incident was discovered.
•
 Wha
t specific information was exposed or accessed.
•
 Ho
w many customers were affected.
•
 Ho
w many customers were at risk of being affected.
•
 Wha
t is being done to remedy the situation for customers.
•
 Ho
w DTE Energy will ensure that it doesn’t occur again.PAGE 38
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2
Sector Specific: Electric Utilities Sector Supplement
> GRI 100: UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 
> GRI 200: ECONOMIC > GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL> GRI 400: SOCIAL> SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIALS
PAGE 39
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2SECTOR SPECIFIC: Electric Utilities Sector SupplementSTANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD
SECTOR 
SPECIFICELECTRIC UTILITIES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT
GRI EU1 Installed capacity Refer to DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2019, Properties- page 10.
GRI EU2 Net energy output Refer to DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report”, EEI ESG Sustainability Template – Section 2: Quantitative Information - Portfolio, page 17 .
GRI EU3 Number of residential, industrial, 
institutional and commercial customer accounts For electric customers, refer to DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report”, EEI ESG Sustainability Template – Section 2: Quantitative Information - Portfolio, page 18.
For gas customers, refer to DTE Energy’s annual “Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report”, AGA Voluntary 
Sustainability Metrics: Quantitative Information – Natural Gas Distribution, page 22.
GRI EU4 Length of above and 
underground transmission and distribution lines Refer to DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2019, Properties- page 10.
GRI EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions 
allowancesDTE Electric operates entirely within the state of Michigan and is not covered by a CO2e emissions trading program.
GRI EU12 Distribution Line Losses In the 2019 rate case that was filed July 8, 2019, the loss factor was increased to 7.3% to be applied starting in 2020 (see U-20561 Exhibit A-13, Schedule C4 line 2). 
GRI EU15 Percentage of employees eligible 
to retireMore than 50% of DTE Energy’s employees will be eligible to retire by 2024. The company continues to seek out people with great ideas and positive energy to join Team DTE, and to imagine the next generation of energy and continue to realize our vision for the future.
GRI EU28 Power outage frequency The System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) measures the average number of power outages that a customer experienced 
in a year.
•
 All-
weather SAIFI: 1.37
•
 Ex
cluding major event days: 0.45
GRI EU29 Average power outage duration The System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) measures the average number of minutes a customer was without power in a 
year. 
SAIDI: 467 minutes The Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI) measures the average number of minutes a customer experiences 
interruption.
CAIDI (Including major events): 340 minutes PAGE 40
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2SECTOR SPECIFIC: Electric Utilities Sector SupplementGRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 
GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local 
minimum wage 
GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 
procedures 
GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken 
GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices 
GRI 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 
GRI 302-3 Energy consumption outside of the organization GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) GRI 306-3 Significant spills GRI 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining may be at risk 
GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor GRI 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights polices or procedures GRI 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 
assessments 
GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures GRI 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 
right clauses or that underwent human rights screening 
GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 
information and labeling 
GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic 
area
DTE Energy does not report this information at this time
GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social 
topics 
GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on 
local communities 
GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts 
of products and servicesNot identified as a material issue for DTE Energy
DTE Energy is not reporting on the following topics as they are not identified as material sustainability issues for DTE.Supplemental Materials
> GRI 100: UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 
> GRI 200: ECONOMIC > GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL> GRI 400: SOCIAL> SECTOR SPECIFIC: ELECTRIC UTILITIES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT
PAGE 42
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Supplemental MaterialsPAGE 42Industry Associations and National Advocacy Organizations 
This is a list of industry associations and advocacy organizations that DTE is involved with. The majority of these organizations are approached on a regular basis to gain understanding of the 
organization’s agenda and, if appropriate, communicate legislative and policy agendas to them.
Name of Organization Stakeholder Group
American Gas Association Industry Association
American Iron and Steel Institute Industry Association
Ann Arbor Spark Business Partner
Biomass Power Association Industry Association
Business Leaders for Michigan Business Partner
Center on Executive Compensation Business Partner
Chamber of Commerce of the US Chamber of Commerce
Citizens Research Council Business Partner
Coalition to Keep Michigan Warm Nonprofit
Detroit Regional Chamber Chamber of Commerce
Edison Electric Institute Industry Association
Electric Reliability Coordinating Council Industry Association
Energy Storage Association Industry Association
Human Resources Policy Association Business Partner
Interstate Natural Gas Association of America Industry Association
Local Chambers - Over 65 across the state Chamber of Commerce
Marcellus Shale Coalition Industry Association
Metro Detroit Visitors & Convention Bureau Business Partner
Metropolitan Affairs Coalition NonprofitName of Organization Stakeholder Group
Michigan Association of Counties Government
Michigan Association of Planning Government
Michigan Chamber of Commerce Chamber of Commerce
Michigan Economic Development Corporate Econ Development
Michigan Electric and Gas Association Industry Association
Michigan Manufacturers Association Business Partner
Michigan Municipal Electric Association Industry Association
Michigan Municipal League Government
Michigan Retailers Association Business Partner
Michigan Township Association Government
National Association of Manufacturers Business Partner
National Energy and Affordability Coalition Nonprofit
Northern Michigan Chamber Alliance Chamber of Commerce
Nuclear Energy Institute Industry Association
Nuclear Waste Strategy Coalition Industry Association
Public Affairs Council Business Partner
Small Business Association of Michigan Business Partner
The Right Place Nonprofit
West Michigan Policy Forum Business PartnerPAGE 43
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Supplemental Materials (cont.)Wildlife Habitat Council Site LocationInitial 
CertificationCertified ThroughCertification Status
Allen Road Service Center 
ComplexMelvindale 2008 2021 Certified
Alpena Service Center Alpena 2009 2021 Certified
Ashley Mews Ann Arbor 2007 2021 Silver
Belle River Mills Compressor 
StationEast China Twp.2008 2021 Certified
Belle River Power Plant East China 
Twp.1996 2021 Certified
Big Rapids Service Station Big Rapids 2010 2021 Certified
Cadillac Service Center Cadillac 2010 2021 CertifiedCitizen’s Gas Adrian 2016 2020 Certified
Coolidge Service Center Wayne 2018 2020 SilverDetroit Headquarters 
ComplexDetroit 2000 2020 Silver
Escanaba Service Center Escanaba 2015 2021 Certified
Fermi 2 Nuclear Power Plant Newport 2000 2021 CertifiedGaylord Transmission & 
Storage 
Operations Service StationGaylord 2012 2021 Silver
Greenwood Energy Center Kenockee 2004 2021 Gold
Huron Renewable Energy 
CenterBad Axe 2018 2020 Silver
Kalkaska T&SO Kalkaska 2009 2020 Silver
Kingsford Service Center Kingsford 2015 2020 Gold
Ludington Service Center Ludington 2009 2021 SilverWildlife Habitat Council Site LocationInitial 
CertificationCertified ThroughCertification Status
Michigan Avenue Service 
CenterYpsilanti 2008 2020 Gold
Milford Compressor Station Milford 2009 2021 Silver
Monroe Power Plant Monroe 1999 2021 N/A
Mt. Pleasant Service Center Mt. Pleasant 2008 2021 SilverMuskegon Service Center Muskegon 2009 2021 CertifiedNewport Service Center Monroe 2016 2020 SilverPetoskey Service Center Petoskey 2015 2021 CertifiedRiver Rouge Power Plant River Rouge 2004 2021 N/A
Sault Ste. Marie Service 
CenterSault Ste. Marie2015 2021 Certified
St. Clair Power Plant East China 
Twp.2001 2021 Certified
Tawas Service Center Tawas 2009 2021 Certified
Traverse City Gas Operations Traverse 
City2009 2021 Certified
Trenton Channel Power Plant and Sibley QuarryTrenton 2020 Gold
W.C. Taggart Compressor StationSix Lakes 2003 2020 Gold
Washington-10 Compressor StationRomeo 2008 2021 Silver
Wealthy Street Station Grand 
Rapids2012 2020 Silver
Western Wayne Service CenterBelleville 2021 SilverWildlife Habitat Council Certified Sites  
GRI Standard 304-3PAGE 44
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Supplemental Materials (cont.)PAGE 44 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Performance Metric Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Employees          
Employee Engagement Gallup Grand Mean score # 4.27 4.33 4.38 4.38 4.40
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 
Recordable Rate# 0.77 0.45 0.67 0.51 0.81
Customers  
R
eliability Duration Index (minutes) # 277 239 1063 485 466
Enrollment in Low-Income Self-Sufficiency Plan # 34,000 35,000 40,000 34,344 36,109
Community  
Spending in Michigan (million) $ $945 $1,349 $1,5
72 $1,719 $2,118
Total spend of total procurement % 42.28% 46.13% 68% 58% 72%
Total number of volunteers # 2,335 2,300 3,500 5,100 5,110
Total number of volunteer hours # 12,000 21,750 57,681 90,582 106,682
Total amount of skills-based volunteer hours # N/A N/A 24,828 33,690 32,463
Climate Change   
Net gas energy sa
vings - customer programs MMCf 1,480 1,620 1,735 1,750 1,841
Required gas savings MMcf 1,178 1,301 1,305 1,286 1,274
Net electricity energy savings - customer programs GWh 621 631 762 728 717
Required electricity savings GWh 485 481 485 471 468
CO2 emissions million tons 34.5 29.7 31.1 32.9 30.06
Environment  
NOx emissions tons 24,405 19,740 20,354 21,783 17,360
SO2 emissions tons 67,064 48,375 44,483 46,004 36,772
Particulate emissions tons 764 530 516 557 530Performance Data tablePAGE 45
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Supplemental Materials (cont.)PAGE 45 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Performance Metric Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Mercury emissions tons 0.479 0.115 0.082 0.077 0.070
Water withdrawal billion gallons 1,196 1,042 1,050 1,095 1,063
Water consumption billion gallons 19.63 18.67 19.62 20.03 19.80
Coal ash generation million tons 0.9 0.71 0.76 0.75 0.69
Recycling rates for ash % 41.08% 25.76% 22.59% 27.05% 33.34%
Gypsum generation million tons 0.39 0.36 0.41 0.44 0.43
Recycling rates for gypsum % 93.89% 100% 99.86% 100% 100%
Recycling rates (combined ash and gypsum) % 57.08% 50.77% 49.91% 54.11% 58.96%
Our Company  
Opera
ting earnings per share (EPS) $ $4.82 $5.28 $5.59 $6.30 $6.30
Annual growth rate in operating % 4.78% 9.54% 5.87% 12.70% 0%
Annual shareholder return (percent) % -3.77% 26.93% 14.59% 4.19% 21.36%
Funds from operations (“FFO”)/debt ratio %Debt/Capital: 52% 
FFO/Debt: 21%Debt/Capital: 51% FFO/Debt: 21%Debt/Capital: 51% FFO/Debt: 20%Debt/Capital: 52% FFO/Debt: 19%
 Debt/Capital: 53%
 
FFO/Debt: 18%
Diluted earnings per common share (dollars) $ $4.05 $4.83 $6.32$6.17$6.31
Net income (million dollars) $ $727 $868 $1,134 $1,120 $1,169Performance Data table (cont.)PAGE 46
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Supplemental Materials (cont.)Stakeholder Engagement Table  
(See GRI standards 102-40, 102-43, and 102-44)
DTE Energy engages stakeholders through a variety of channels that facilitate meaningful dialogue around topics of mutual interest. The table below highlights some of the most significant 
ways the company connects with stakeholders. The last (right) column in the table describes the material issues each group is most interested in based on interactions with them – and what the company hears from stakeholders. 
Stakeholder Group Type of Engagement Frequency Topics Raised
Communities
Community advisory council meetings Tri-annual (March, July, November) Customer service and assistance programs 
Community outreach (organizations, events, partnerships) 
Jobs and employment (training, access, hiring 
process) 
Political involvement (lobbying, advocacy)  Diversity, equity and inclusion  Economic development (entrepreneurship, small 
business support)  
Energy efficiency  Reliability and infrastructure Public safety Neighborhood developmentCommunity partners meeting Annual meetings in southeast Michigan 
and greater Michigan
External partnerships (nonprofits, chambers, associations, clubs attending/supporting events and programs) faith-based organizationsRegularly throughout the year
Volunteering (board service, events, long-term programs) Regularly throughout the year
Neighborhood stakeholder meetings QuarterlyPAGE 47
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Supplemental Materials (cont.)Stakeholder Group Type of Engagement Frequency Topics Raised
Customers
DTE Energy website, Empowering Michigan blog, DTE 
Impact websiteUpdated regularly Customer satisfaction 
Cybersecurity Economic development Energy affordability Energy efficiency Greenhouse gases Reliability and infrastructure Renewables Safety Volunteerism Corporate CitizenshipBilling statements and messaging Monthly
Press releases and local media Regularly throughout the year
Customer feedback via online comments and phone hotline Continuous dialogue
Account management for large commercial & industrial 
customersContinuous dialogue
J.D. Power survey Twice annually
Employees
Company intranet Updated regularly Community assistance 
Volunteerism Cybersecurity Diversity and inclusion Employee engagement Safety Environment Corporate CitizenshipTraining events Ongoing throughout the year
Town hall meetings Regularly throughout the year
Employee feedback via online comments Continuous dialogue
Gallup engagement survey Semiannual
Volunteerism Ongoing throughout the year
Employee resource groups Monthly 
Performance reviews Annual, with mid-year check-insStakeholder Engagement Table (cont.)  PAGE 48
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Supplemental Materials (cont.)Stakeholder Group Type of Engagement Frequency Topics Raised
Facility neighbors
Press releases and media relations Regularly throughout the year Air emissions 
Community assistance 
Economic development Habitat and biodiversity Reliability and infrastructure Renewables Safety Waste management Public Safety Education Jobs and Employment Transportation BeautificationCommunity meetings associated with specific facility 
projects or eventsPeriodically as needed
Program partner newsletters and communications Periodically as needed
Community meetings associated with ongoing 
neighborhood work and programmingRegularly throughout the year
Government (local, state, federal)
Attendance at state agency meetings and legislative hearingsContinuous dialogue Community assistance 
Customer satisfaction Cybersecurity Economic development Energy affordability Energy efficiency Greenhouse gas emissions Reliability and infrastructure Renewables Safety EnvironmentAttendance at meetings and hearings with federal 
regulators and policymakersContinuous dialogue
Volunteer events Regularly throughout the year
Press releases and local media Regularly throughout the year
Facility tours for legislators Regularly throughout the yearStakeholder Engagement Table (cont.)  PAGE 49
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Supplemental Materials (cont.)Stakeholder Group Type of Engagement Frequency Topics Raised
Industry associations
Attendance at regular meetings and conferences. For 
example:
•
 Edison Electric Institute
•
 Nuclear Energy Institute
•
 American Gas Associa
tion
•
 Intersta
te Natural Gas Association of America 
•
 Michigan Manufactur
ers Association
•
 Michigan Chamber of Commer
ce
•
 Detr
oit Regional ChamberRegularly throughout the year 
(monthly, quarterly and annually)Air emissions 
Cybersecurity Energy efficiency Greenhouse gases Habitat and biodiversity Reliability and infrastructure Renewables Safety Waste management
Ongoing discussions around specific topics of concern to 
DTE EnergyContinuous dialogue on a project or case by case basis
Environmental groups
Attendance at regular meetings and conference, 
including:
•
 The Na
ture Conservancy
•
 Wildlife Habita
t Council
•
 Detr
oiters Working for Environmental Justice
•
 Southw
est Detroit Environmental VisionRegularly throughout the year Air emissions 
Energy efficiency Greenhouse gases Habitat and biodiversity Renewables Waste management
Ongoing discussions around specific topics of concern to 
environmental groups related to DTE Energy activitiesContinuous dialogue on a project or case by case basisStakeholder Engagement Table (cont.)  PAGE 50
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Supplemental Materials (cont.)Stakeholder Group Type of Engagement Frequency Topics Raised
Shareholders
Investor calls Quarterly GHG emissions 
Reliability and infrastructure Renewables Safety Financial performancePress releases Periodically throughout the year
DTE Energy Investor Relations website Updated regularly
Investor Relations Day 2-5 years
Suppliers
Supplier meetings, symposiums, executive reviews Weekly, monthly, quarterly and/or 
annuallyCybersecurity Diversity and inclusion Economic development Energy efficiency Energy affordability Reliability and infrastructure Renewables Safety Waste managementSupplier scorecards Weekly, monthly, quarterly and/or 
annuallyStakeholder Engagement Table (cont.)  PAGE 51
2020 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, VOLUME 2Supplemental Materials (cont.)DTE Energy’s youth and adult talent pipeline programs
Energy Industry Fundamentals (EIF) Programs
Career Technical Education High SchoolsMEWDC Partnered Educational InstitutionsParnell Correctional FacilityEducational Institutions Robotics TeamsRobotics EventsPrimary Youth Employment AreasArea of future programsDTE Energy Regions 
Service Center
Power GenerationService area