2006 |2007 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
OUR PATH FORWARDour charter2007 DUKE ENERGY
CHARTER
We are Duke Energy, a leading energy 
company focused on electric power and gas 
distribution operations in the Americas. We 
energize our communities and enhance the 
quality of life for the people who live there.
Our purpose is to create superior and 
sustainable value for our customers, 
employees, communities and investors 
through the production, delivery and 
sale of energy and energy services.
To be successful in 2007 and beyond,  
we must:
• Establish the identity and culture of the  
new Duke Energy, unifying our people, 
values, strategy, processes and systems
• Optimize our operations by focusing on 
safety, simplicity, accountability, inclusion, 
customer satisfaction, cost management  
and employee development
• Achieve public policy, regulatory and legisla -
tive outcomes that balance our customers’ 
needs for reliable energy at competitive 
prices with our shareholders’ expectation  
of superior returns
• Invest in energy infrastructure that meets 
rising customer demands for reliable energy 
in an energy efficient and environmentally 
sound manner
• Achieve 2007 financial objectives and  
position the company to meet future  
growth targetsIn conducting our business, we value:
• Stewardship  – A commitment to health, 
safety, environmental responsibility and our 
communities
• Integrity  – Ethically and honestly doing what 
we say we will do
• Safety  – A relentless commitment to working 
safely and looking out for the safety of our 
co-workers and others with whom we do 
business
• Respect for the Individual  – Embracing  
diversity and inclusion, enhanced by 
openness, sharing, trust, teamwork and 
involvement
• High Performance  – Achieving superior 
business results, stretching our capabili -
ties and valuing the contributions of every 
employee
• Win-Win Relationships  – Having relation -
ships which focus on the creation of value  
for all parties
• Initiative  – Having the courage, creativity 
and discipline to lead change and shape the 
future
We will be successful when:
• Our investors realize a superior return on their 
investment over time
• Our customers, suppliers and communities 
benefit from our business relationships
• Every employee starts each day with a sense 
of purpose, and ends each day safely with a 
sense of accomplishment
ON THE COVER  
Main Image:  Path located on the Latta Plantation 
Nature Preserve near Charlotte, NC.  
Photo courtesy of Thomas Wyche.
Inset Images: (Top to bottom)
Michelle Morris, Power Delivery Work Center 
Dispatcher, enters data into the line crew  
dispatch system.
Catawba Nuclear Station.
Avery Cockerl, Carolinas Distribution Line  
Technician, at a substation near the Duke Energy 
Little Rock Operations Center in Charlotte, NC.
Wetlands at Cayuga Station in Indiana.ABOUT THIS REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
About This Report ……………………………  .1
Duke Energy Corporate Profile  ....................... 2
Key Terms……………………..  ..................... 3
A Message from the Chairman  ...................... 4
A Message from the Vice President
of Sustainability  .......................................... 6
2007 Sustainability Plan .............................. 8
Products and Services  ................................ 10
Environmental Footprint  ............................. 14
 Climate Change Position  ......................... 18
Quality Workforce  ...................................... 20
Strong Communities  .................................. 24
Governance and Transparency  .................... 28
 Global Reporting Initiative Index  .............. 30
 Stakeholder Matrix  ................................. 31
Independent Review  .................................. 32This is Duke Energy’s first sustainability report. 
It highlights our past progress, presents the 
challenges and opportunities we face and  
offers our view of the future. 
We based the content of this report on the 
interests of environmental groups and other 
non-government organizations, investors, 
academic institutions and large customers. 
We believe that our community partners and 
industry peers will also find this report useful. 
To provide an independent assessment of this 
report, we contracted with Business for Social 
Responsibility (BSR, at www.bsr.org) to review 
and comment on its scope and content. BSR’s 
opinion is on page 32.
This document presents our 2006 results 
within our sustainability framework for the 
future. We also provide historical information 
where consistent data for Duke Energy and its 
recent merger partner, Cinergy, were available. 
While this report was not structured to conform 
to the 2006 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
guidelines, a broad index to GRI indicators can 
be found on page 30. A more detailed index 
to the GRI indicators can be found on our Web 
site at www.duke-energy.com/environment/
sustainability.asp. With the information on our  
Web site, we believe we meet GRI Application 
Level B.  
The theme of this sustainability report is “Our 
Path Forward,” and we are, indeed, moving 
ahead. We hope you’ll join us as we navigate 
the important environmental, economic and 
social issues of our time. 
1In 2006, Duke Energy completed a number 
of strategic actions. These included a 
merger with Cinergy in April, the creation 
of a joint venture with Morgan Stanley 
Real Estate Fund and the spinoff of 
our natural gas pipeline business. The 
company’s current businesses include:
 
• U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas –   
which operates in North Carolina, 
South Carolina, Indiana, Ohio and 
Kentucky. This is our largest business 
segment and our primary source of 
earnings growth. We expect this 
business unit to generate approxi -
mately 80 percent of forecasted 
2007 ongoing total segment 
earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT).  
It includes:
• A $16 billion retail rate base
• 3.9 million electric customers
• 500,000 gas customers in Ohio and 
Kentucky
• 47,000 square miles of service territory
• 28,000 megawatts of regulated generation
• 126,OO0 miles of electric lines.
• Commercial Power  – which owns and 
operates unregulated power plants, primarily 
in the Midwest. Almost all of the results 
for this business come from sales to retail 
customers in Ohio under that state’s Rate 
Stabilization Plan. Also in this segment is 
Duke Energy Generation Services (DEGS), DUKE ENERGY
CORPORATE PROFILE
which develops, owns and operates electric 
generation sources that serve large energy 
consumers, municipalities, utilities and 
industrial facilities. We expect this business 
unit to generate approximately 7 percent of 
forecasted 2007 ongoing total segment EBIT. 
It includes:
• 8,100 megawatts of unregulated  
generation, most of which is dedicated  
to regulated customers.
• Duke Energy International  – which encom -
passes our international electric generation 
operations located in Central and South 
America. We expect this business unit 
to generate approximately 10 percent of 
forecasted 2007 ongoing total segment EBIT. 
It includes:
• 4,000 megawatts of generation, primarily 
hydroelectric power, in six countries: 
Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, El Salvador, 
Guatemala and Peru.
• Crescent Resources  – which is an effec -
tive joint venture with Morgan Stanley Real 
Estate Fund, manages land holdings and 
develops high-quality commercial, residen -
tial and multi-family real estate projects in 
10 states, primarily in the southeastern and 
southwestern United States. We expect this 
business unit to generate approximately 3 
percent of forecasted 2007 ongoing total 
segment EBIT. 
Corporate Headquarters
Major Office Location
Franchised Electric and Gas Service Area
Latin American Assets
Wholesale Generation PlantPLAINFIELDCINCINNATI
CHARLOTTE
MEXICO CITY
GUATEMALA CITY
SAN SALVADOR
LIMA
SAO PAULO
BUENOS AIRESBrazil
ArgentinaPeruEcuadorEl SalvadorGuatemalaMexicoSouth CarolinaNorth CarolinaOhio
KentuckyIndiana Corporate Headquarters 
  Franchised Electric & Gas Territory 
   Major Office Location
MEXICO CITY
GUATEMALA CITY
SAN SALVADOR
LIMA
SAO PAULO
BUENOS AIRES  Major Office Location 
  Latin American Holding
2RepResentative affiliations  
and p aRtneRships
• Alliance to Save Energy
• American Association  
of Blacks in Energy
• American Red Cross
• Business Roundtable
• Business for Social Responsibility
• Catalyst
• Center for Corporate Citizenship  
at Boston College
• The Conference Board
• Edison Electric Institute
• Electric Power Research Institute
• EPA Natural Gas Star Program
• Global Environmental  
Management Initiative
• INROADS
• The Keystone Center
• Massachusetts Institute of Technology: 
Joint Program on the Science and Policy 
of Global Change
• National Action Plan for  
Energy Efficiency
• National Association of Manufacturers
• National Council of Teachers  
of Mathematics
• National Minority Supplier  
Development Council
• The Nature Conservancy
• NatureServe
• Pew Center on Global Climate Change 
• ORC Worldwide
• Resources for the Future
• TODOS: Mathematics for All
• United Way
• U.S. Climate Action Partnership
•University of Michigan: Graham  
Environmental Sustainability InstituteKEY TERMS
Actions – not words – are the true measure of 
a company’s character. But words often help 
put the actions into perspective. We offer this 
summary of key terms frequently used in this 
report. More extensive descriptions can be 
found on our Web site.
Sustainability
Duke Energy has adopted the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index definition to describe our 
approach to sustainability: “Corporate sustain -
ability is a business approach that creates 
long-term shareholder value by embracing 
opportunities and managing risks deriving  
from economic, environmental and social 
developments.”
Greenhouse Gases and Climate Change
The greenhouse effect is a naturally occurring 
phenomenon, keeping the earth hospitable to 
life by trapping heat. Carbon dioxide and many 
other gases exhibit “greenhouse” properties. 
Some of them occur naturally while others are 
exclusively man-made.
Recent research – accepted by a growing 
majority of scientists and policymakers –  
indicates that human activity has increased 
the concentrations of these greenhouse gases 
and contributed to the rise in global average 
temperatures. To avoid the worst effects of 
climate change, greenhouse gas concentrations 
in the atmosphere need to be stabilized, then 
reduced.
Integrated Resource Planning
One of Duke Energy’s greatest challenges is 
meeting our customers’ energy needs in a 
3reliable, cost-effective and environmentally 
responsible manner. The company’s energy 
planning decisions are guided by a comprehen -
sive Integrated Resource Plan (IRP), which is 
submitted to our state regulators.
The IRP process evaluates all reasonable 
resource scenarios, including supply-side 
options (electric generation) and demand-side 
options (actions to reduce electric demand).  
In many states, the IRP process considers the 
environmental costs and effects of electricity 
supply and transmission decisions. Cost-  
effective energy efficiency and renewable 
energy alternatives are also considered in  
the IRP process. 
PROOF OF PROGRESS
When it comes to sustainability, our path 
forward is clear. Here are several indicators  
of our progress: 
• We are committed to greatly increasing our 
spending on energy efficiency programs for 
customers, subject to appropriate regulatory 
treatment.
• We are installing pollution controls at our 
generating stations that will cut sulfur dioxide 
and nitrogen oxides emissions by 70 percent 
compared to 1997 levels.
• We are implementing new safe workplace 
policies and programs.
• We are a significant partner in economic 
development projects throughout our  
service areas.
• We continue to deliver electric and gas 
service at prices below the national average.
• We created value for our investors with 
a total shareholder return in 2006 that 
exceeded leading industry indicators.4A MESSAGE FROM 
THE CHAIRMAN
Welcome to Duke Energy’s first sustainability 
report. 
Sustainability is shorthand for our business 
philosophy; simply put, we believe that 
responsible actions lead to long-term success. 
Sustainability is more than good corporate 
citizenship. It’s about pursuing our vision of 
tomorrow while serving our stakeholders well 
today. It’s also about facing challenges honestly 
and head-on, without sacrificing profitability. 
This sustainability report gives you a closer look 
at some of the broader issues – beyond finan -
cial performance and business strategy – that 
Duke Energy confronts. Here we report on our 
environmental performance, our safety record, 
the investments we make in our communities 
and the values that underlie all of our actions. 
LIvING OUR vALUES
Our company’s business values are closely 
linked to performance in all areas. Duke 
Energy’s charter, which precedes this letter, 
describes our purpose, our objectives, our 
values and our measures of success. Our Code 
of Business Ethics, posted on our Web site, 
guides employees to do the right thing when 
they contend with tough ethical decisions.
As a company, we face challenging decisions 
as well:
• How do we meet our customers’ growing 
demand for energy, while reducing our 
environmental footprint?
• How can we keep our employees and 
contractors safe?
• How can we attract and retain the right kind 
of new talent? 
• How can we help our communities thrive in 
a changing economy?• How can we provide a sustainable return on 
our shareholders’ investments?
ThE NEW ENERGY EqUATION
These questions get to the heart of what we 
call the “new energy equation,” which can be 
solved in part through our focus on sustain -
ability. Achieving the new energy equation will 
require us to balance the needs of all our stake -
holders and challenge conventional wisdom 
with new thinking and innovation. With that in 
mind, here’s how we’re currently addressing 
each of these complex issues:
Energy and the Environment  – Providing the 
energy we need while protecting the environ -
ment is one of the most critical issues of our 
time. Duke Energy is committed to devel -
oping more efficient electric generation with 
fewer emissions, including the greenhouse 
gases that contribute to global warming. We 
are strong advocates for energy efficiency, as 
shown by our participation in organizations 
such as the National Action Plan for Energy 
Efficiency and the Alliance to Save Energy. I am 
also a founding member of the U.S. Climate 
Action Partnership, a coalition of business and 
environmental leaders who advocate taking 
swift action on federal legislation that will put 
mandatory limits on greenhouse gas emissions 
in all economic sectors. 
Safety  – 2006 was a failure for Duke Energy in 
this very important area. Four people died due 
to accidents on the job. The only acceptable 
goal is zero fatalities – and we have put finan -
cial incentives in place for all employees if we 
reach that goal in 2007. In addition, we have 
set a goal based on our injury rate, with finan -
cial penalties for management if we fall short of 
that threshold. Employees and contractors will Jim Rogers has had a varied 
career, serving as a reporter, a 
consumer advocate, an attorney 
specializing in utility issues 
and now as a utility executive. 
Throughout his career, he has 
been a strong voice for sustain -
ability.
be safer at work and at home only if we change 
our mindset and our behavior. We simply must 
do a better job in this important area. 
A quality Workforce – Employees are the 
foundation of our company, and they should 
share in the rewards of our success. The 
bright, talented people that we hope to attract 
to Duke Energy expect a company committed 
to sustainability; they’re looking for companies 
that want to make a real difference in people’s 
lives. Our goal is to have employees of all ages 
and backgrounds who want to work for an 
organization that values their contributions, 
supports their development and helps them 
find balance in their work and personal lives.  
Strong Communities  – Helping our commu -
nities thrive and grow is important to Duke 
Energy. We have a long tradition of community 
support and partnership in the Midwest and 
Carolinas. Our wide-ranging economic develop -
ment efforts help create new jobs. Business 
relations managers throughout our service terri -
tory serve as two-way channels of information 
about community needs and the programs we 
have in place to meet them. We provide finan -
cial support to countless worthwhile causes, 
and our employees and retirees volunteer in 
virtually every community we serve.  
A Sustainable Return  – Our obligation to 
shareholders means investing their dollars 
wisely and accepting accountability for 
achieving our goals. We have reduced much 
of our company’s risk by divesting some of our 
more volatile businesses, including our trading 
and marketing operations and much of our 
wholesale electric generation. Duke Energy’s 
strategy today focuses on our regulated power 
business, which was greatly expanded in the merger with Cinergy. We are keeping the 
promises of that merger by achieving econo -
mies of scale and sharing those savings with 
our customers and investors. The company’s 
financial performance, detailed in our Summary 
Annual Report, is achieved within a broader 
framework of personal and corporate ethical 
behavior. We comply with both the letter and 
the spirit of the laws that govern our operations.
A TEST OF TIME
As a grandfather of seven, I believe there is  
one sure test of our success: How will our 
grandchildren view our actions in the future? 
Years from now, will they know we took the 
right steps to improve our environment, our 
communities and our quality of life? Will they 
believe we made the right ethical decisions, 
treated our employees fairly and gave 
customers their money’s worth? Or will they 
wonder why we didn’t do more? By antici -
pating our future generations’ answers to those 
questions, we’ll make better decisions that will 
stand the test of time.
You can find more information about our 
company’s sustainable approach to doing 
business on our Web site, www.duke-energy.
com, where you can also contact us if you  
have questions or concerns. Thank you for  
your interest in our ongoing commitment to 
sustainability.
Sincerely,
Jim Rogers
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
March 26, 2007
5oUR ResponsiBilitY
A child’s hand within an adult’s  
symbolizes the responsibility 
we have to leave our world a 
better place. The five fingers 
also help reinforce the five 
focus areas of our sustainability plan.6A MESSAGE FROM THE 
VICE PRESIDENT OF SUSTAINABILITY
Jim Rogers’ letter outlines the greatest 
challenges facing our company. Our response 
to those challenges helps to make the business 
case for sustainability: Companies that succeed 
in the long-term are those that effectively 
manage environmental, economic and social 
risks and opportunities. 
Sustainability issues dominate the competi -
tive landscape wherever we do business. We 
depend on natural resources to fuel our power 
plants. The price of electricity and natural gas 
affects our customers’ competitiveness and 
our regional economies. And, we are a major 
employer and partner in the communities we 
serve. For those reasons, we believe that if 
Duke Energy doesn’t have a sustainability plan, 
we don’t have a business plan. 
SETTING OUR P ATh FORWARD
My responsibility at Duke Energy is to help 
translate the concept of sustainability into 
action. Our approach is characterized by 
research and analysis, integrating sustainability 
into our business, focusing on what matters 
most, and establishing clear accountabilities, 
goals and measures.  
In developing the sustainability plan for Duke 
Energy, we began with our corporate vision 
and values, our business strategy, and the 
sustainability commitments of Cinergy and Duke Energy prior to their 2006 merger. We 
also analyzed the feedback from the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index – a leading independent 
benchmark of excellence in sustainability 
performance.  And, we did a lot of listening.  
We listened to our many external stakeholders. 
We listened to leaders in sustainability. We 
listened to our employees. And we listened to 
our conscience. 
SUSTAINABILITY IS A JOURNEY
Sustainability at Duke Energy is a journey, not 
a destination. Different parts of our company 
begin this journey at different mile markers.  
Some areas have been on the path of sustain -
ability for years, while others are just beginning.   
For example, we have long recognized that 
as we increase power plant efficiency, we 
reduce costs and emissions per kilowatt-hour. 
That’s why improving power plant efficiency 
has been an objective of ours for many years.  
But, as a newly merged company, we are just 
beginning to bring together our environmental 
performance data and identify opportunities for 
improvement. In the future, our goals will be 
more quantifiable.
ADDING vALUE FOR STAKEhOLDERS
Part of our mission is to make sustainability a 
core competency at Duke Energy – something 
that is not only “nice to do,” but something that Roberta Bowman on the 
campus of the new  
Charlotte Research Institute  
at the University of North  
Carolina – Charlotte. Duke 
Energy was the lead contributor 
to the Institute, supporting  
our commitment to economic 
development and training 
workers for the challenges  
of a global economy.
adds real value. We know that the companies 
that achieve their sustainability objectives are 
those that align their words with actions and 
make sustainability part of the company’s 
operations and culture.
WhAT MATTERS MOST
Sustainability is a big word and its scope can 
be overwhelming. There are few areas of our 
business that don’t touch on sustainability 
in some way. Duke Energy’s approach is to 
concentrate our efforts where we have the 
greatest impact and risk. In financial and legal 
terms, it’s called “materiality.” We prefer simpler 
words: what matters most.  
FOCUS AREAS
Our five focus areas were initially shaped 
by our own priorities, and then refined with 
external stakeholder input:
• Provide innovative products and services  
for a carbon-constrained, competitive world
• Reduce our environmental footprint
• Attract and retain a diverse, high-quality 
workforce
• Help build strong communities
• Be profitable and demonstrate strong  
governance and transparency
As you’ll see on the following pages, each  
focus area is supported by specific goals and 
objectives that will guide our actions over the 
next five years.REPORTING OUR PROGRESS
This first Duke Energy sustainability report 
sets the baseline for measuring future perfor -
mance. Consistent with the company’s scope, 
most of the emphasis in this report is on our 
U.S. operations. Duke Energy’s policies and 
corporate programs, however, also apply to our 
international business. 
We have placed more information on our Web 
site at www.duke-energy.com/environment/
sustainability.asp, and we intend to add new  
content throughout the year. I hope you will 
visit the site for more details and let us know 
what you think. 
Our journey to sustainability follows a path 
forward. As with any journey, we know we’ll 
encounter some twists and turns along the 
way, and even an occasional roadblock. But, 
we also expect that this path forward will lead 
us to important new discoveries – ideas and 
innovations that we can’t even imagine today. 
We look forward to reporting our progress in the 
years ahead.
Sincerely,
Roberta Bowman
Vice President, Sustainability  
and Community Affairs
March 26, 2007
7Duke Energy has been named one of 
North America’s leading companies in a 
measurement of financial, environmental 
and social performance. We are a member 
of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 
North America (DJSI NA), which tracks 
leading companies for their sustainable 
approach to business. The DJSI NA list 
contains 112 companies selected from the 
largest 600 North American corporations. 
Duke Energy was the only “multi-utility” 
named to the list in 2006.sustainability plan
8This sustainability plan reflects Duke Energy’s commitment to 
conduct our business in a way that creates long-term benefits for  
our stakeholders, our environment and our company. It recognizes 
and addresses the key economic, environmental and social oppor -
tunities and risks facing our industry today and in the future. This 
plan expands on the company’s business strategy and values. Unless 
otherwise noted, our intent is to achieve the goals in this plan by 
2012. We expect to refine the goals with more quantifiable measures in the future. We have listened to and incorporated feedback from 
our stakeholders into this plan. The plan does not endeavor to  
cover every sustainability initiative at Duke Energy – and there 
are many. Instead, we focus on those areas that matter most from 
a sustainability risk and opportunity perspective. We will report 
progress against these goals in this annual sustainability report  
and other public venues.
Area of Focus Goals
PRODUCTS & SERvICES
Provide innovative products and  
services for a carbon-constrained,  
competitive world
Why it matters:
Our customers want products and services 
that keep them competitive regionally and 
globally, yet respond to environmental 
concerns.• Champion energy efficiency as a top industry issue and collaborate with regulators, customers 
and other key stakeholders to advance innovative policies and programs 
• Aggressively pursue “smarter grid and meter” technologies that can deliver significant 
operational and customer benefits
• Expand green power options to customers in every state we operate
• Keep rates competitive and achieve top quartile customer satisfaction in all markets as 
measured by national benchmark surveys
ENvIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Reduce our environmental footprint
Why it matters:
As an energy company, we have a large 
impact on the environment and depend  
on natural resources for much of our fuel.• Diversify our fuel mix and address the climate change issue by:
• Promoting U.S. federal policy mandating economy-wide reductions of greenhouse gas 
emissions
• Creating the option to build new nuclear (carbon free) generation
• Piloting clean coal and other innovative technologies, e.g., advanced integrated gasification 
combined cycle technology, geological carbon dioxide sequestration
• Securing cost-effective alternative sources of energy 
• Reducing, avoiding and/or sequestering at least 10 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalents 
over the next eight years (2007-2014)
• Continue to focus on safe, reliable and efficient power plant operations
• Model energy efficiency internally
• Deliver on our commitment to significantly reduce nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide emissions 
by completing remaining projects to install state-of-the-art emission reduction technologies
• Develop the next generation of environmental goals in 2007 – considering air, water, waste and 
land management – to further reduce our footprint20079Area of Focus Goals
qUALITY WORKFORCE
Attract and retain a diverse, high-quality 
workforce
Why it matters:
Energy companies will be differentiated  
by the quality, creativity, and customer  
focus of their employees.• Achieve zero fatalities and top decile safety performance in total incident case rate (TICR) 
• Develop a culture of wellness by encouraging, supporting and rewarding improved employee 
health and well-being
• Attract, retain and engage a diverse, talented workforce by:
• Implementing a more effective employee recruitment and development plan
• Developing and implementing innovative employee programs and benefits, e.g., alternative 
work locations
• Launching ways to transfer or retain critical knowledge given that approximately 40 percent 
of the workforce will be eligible to retire in the next five years
• Drive understanding of the value of sustainability within the company to inspire ideas and 
innovation
STRONG COMMUNITIES
Help build strong communities
Why it matters:
Our success is linked to the health and  
prosperity of the communities we serve.• Partner to stimulate economic growth in our communities by attracting 12,500 jobs and $2.4 
billion in capital investment in 2007
• Invest over $15 million annually in community programs that improve the quality of life in our 
communities
• Implement tools for our communities to use that will support their long-term planning 
• Develop and implement strategies to address future water issues that will arise from continued 
population growth in the Carolinas
• Increase spending with diverse suppliers by 5 percent a year 
• Implement initiatives to support public safety in our communities
GOvERNANCE & TRANSPARENCY
Be profitable and demonstrate strong 
governance and transparency
Why it matters:
Creating shareholder value and earning  
the trust and confidence of our many  
stakeholders keeps us in business.• Provide investors a superior and sustainable return on their investment
• Assure that we have effective ethics and compliance programs
• Regularly benchmark our corporate governance practices against best-in-class and industry 
peers and recommend revisions as appropriate
• Assess our supply chain (services and products) from a sustainability perspective and  
implement appropriate follow-up actions 
• Communicate clearly and frequently with our stakeholders
(Left to right) The Energy Explorium is an interactive center  
located at McGuire Nuclear Station, which allows visitors to  
learn about energy.
Belews Creek Steam Station, located on the Dan River near Belews 
Creek, NC is one of our largest coal-fired generating stations.
Annual wood duck banding on wetlands at East Bend Station  
near Union, KY tracks migration routes and helps provide valuable 
biological information.products & services
10PRODUCTS & SERVICES
Provide innovative products and services for a carbon-constrained, competitive world
ENERGY EFFICIENCY –  
ThE FIFTh FUEL
Demand for electricity in the United 
States is expected to increase by 50 percent by 
2030, according to the Department of Energy.  
In addition to coal, nuclear, natural gas and 
renewable energy, we believe energy efficiency 
will become the “fifth fuel” to meet that growing 
demand. 
Relying on finite fossil fuels for all of our energy 
needs is simply not a sustainable solution.  
With the right combination of technology, 
regulatory support and customer acceptance, 
energy efficiency can benefit our customers,  
our investors and the environment. OUR COMMITMENT TO  
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
In October 2006, Duke Energy created a new 
department that is focused on energy efficiency.  
The group is charged with:
• Understanding the many factors that affect 
electricity usage; and
• Creating energy efficiency programs and 
services that benefit our stakeholders.  
We’re also working with state utility commis -
sions, other utility companies and legislative 
staff to design new laws and regulations that 
place energy efficiency on an equal footing 
with investments in power plants. This new 
regulatory treatment would provide us with an ChALLENGE
• Develop innovative and economical  
energy efficient products and services  
to help customers remain competitive  
in an increasingly global and energy-  
intensive economyOPPORTUNITIES• Build the utility of the future through a 
combination of innovation, new technology 
and efficient demand-side management
• Ensure constructive rate treatment for effec -
tive approaches that meet customer demand
GOALS• Champion energy efficiency as a top 
 
industry issue
• Collaborate with regulators, customers  
and other key stakeholders to advance 
innovative policies and programs• Pursue “smarter grid and meter” technologies
• Expand green power options for customers
• Keep rates competitive and achieve top 
quartile customer satisfactionincentive to explore and invest in new efficiency 
programs and projects, and give our customers 
universal access to cost-saving energy efficiency 
measures.  
Our efforts have already been successful in 
one of the states we serve. Energy efficiency 
programs approved by the Kentucky Public 
Utility Commission in 2006 have reduced 
demand by over 12,800 megawatt-hours, 
or enough power to serve more than 1,000 
homes each year. In our rapidly growing 
Carolinas region, Duke Energy has committed 
to invest 1 percent of revenues on energy 
efficiency programs, once appropriate regula -
tory treatment is in place.  
11
eneRGY savinGs tips
Duke Energy offers a variety of services 
to help customers reduce their energy 
bills. Depending on the state of residence, 
we offer audits in the home or online. 
Customers can also learn how to use 
appliances more efficiently, construct an 
energy efficient home or compare costs  
of energy efficiency alternatives. Visit 
www.duke-energy.com for our latest  
energy savings tips.BUILDING A CONSENSUS  
FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Nationally, Duke Energy is playing a leading 
role with programs and policies that drive 
energy efficiency. In 2006, Jim Rogers co-
chaired the development of the National Action 
Plan for Energy Efficiency (NAPEE). Sponsored 
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
and the Department of Energy, NAPEE was the 
joint effort of 50 gas and electric utilities, utility 
regulators and other organizations to create a 
sustainable national commitment to energy 
efficiency. Visit www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/
actionplan/leadership.htm for more information.
We’ve also taken this national vision to the 
state level, hosting NAPEE-inspired statewide 
energy efficiency summits in the states we 
serve. We conducted collaborative summits in 
Kentucky and Indiana in 2006 and will hold 
summits in North Carolina, South Carolina and 
Ohio in 2007.
12PRODUCTS & SERVICES
ThE UTILITY OF ThE FUTURE
One of the most exciting developments in 
electricity distribution and use is bundled in 
what we call the “Utility of the Future.” Just 
as automobiles and manufacturing have been 
transformed by the digital revolution, we are 
beginning to apply advanced technology to  
our electric system.
The graphic above illustrates what the new 
“digital grid” might look like and how it will 
serve our customers and communities.  
harnessing New Technology  
New technologies will drive fundamental 
changes in the way electricity is generated, 
priced and used. Customers want to manage 
their energy use more closely, and “smart 
meters” will provide real-time price information.  
These advanced meters will also tell us when, 
where and how much power our customers use, helping us better tailor our operations and 
planning to customer demand. We are piloting 
smart meters in 2007 and expect to have them 
in nearly all customers’ homes and businesses 
in five to seven years.
Increased Reliability, Decreased Cost
Utility of the Future concepts will make us a 
more efficient company in many ways. All the 
various components of the energy delivery 
system will be linked through real-time commu -
nications. State-of-the-art technology will help 
us pinpoint outages and make repairs more 
quickly. The ultimate goal is to provide greater 
reliability – with less environmental impact –  
at a lower cost to our customers. 
Visit the residential or business customer 
portions of our Web site for more information 
on energy savings and management.paRtneRinG With the epa
The Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) partnered with Duke Energy to 
complete a complex metering and control 
system at the agency’s Research Triangle 
Park facility in North Carolina. The agency 
tried several vendors and technologies, 
but Duke Energy was the only one to 
design and deliver a viable solution. The 
EPA can now monitor energy usage and 
billing for electricity, natural gas, fuel oil 
and water at its various buildings on the 
site, resulting in lower costs and improved 
understanding of usage patterns. 
UTILITY  
COMMUNICATIONS
DYNAMIC  
SYSTEM CONTROL
DATA  
MANAGEMENTDISTRIBUTION 
OPERATIONSCONSUMER PORTAL 
& BUILDING ENERGY 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
ADVANCED 
METERING
PLUG-IN HYBRIDS
DISTRIBUTED 
GENERATION  
& STORAGECONTROL INTERFACERENEWABLES
PHOTOVOLTAIC 
PANELSINTERNET
SMART  
END-USE  
DEVICESEFFICIENT BUILDING SYSTEMS
©Copyright 2006 Electric Power Research Institute, Inc.13
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
What drives customer satisfaction in our 
business? Our customers tell us it’s two things:  
the cost of our product and the reliability of  
our service. 
Duke Energy’s electric rates, on a cents per 
kilowatt-hour basis, continue to be competi -
tive in our five-state service area. Nationally, 
as indicated on the chart above, our rates 
are more than 20 percent below the national 
average. 
Our customer satisfaction results in 2006 
were mixed. In surveys of several thousand 
customers, 82 percent rated their overall  
satisfaction with Duke Energy as an 8, 9 or  
10 on a scale of 1 to 10, exceeding our goal  
of 76 percent.There are also several external measures of 
customer satisfaction, including J.D. Power  
and Associates’ 2006 Electric Utility Residential 
Customer Satisfaction Study. In that survey, 
Duke Energy achieved top-quartile perfor-
mance in the Carolinas and third quartile  
in the Midwest. 
We were not successful in achieving our 2006 
reliability goals. Our average service interrup -
tion duration and frequency levels were:  
 
2006 Results Actual Goal
Average time without 
power* per customer164 min. 138 min.
Average number of 
outages* per customer1.3 1.2
* Longer than five minutes
Improving reliability performance is a key 
objective in 2007.sheddinG liGht on  
eneRGY savinGs
Duke Energy partnered with 
Alexandria and Ludlow, 
Kentucky mayors and 
local retailers to help 
customers save money 
by purchasing  
ENERGY STAR® 
compact fluores -
cent light bulbs (CFLs). Through a special 
discount offer, customers were able to buy bulbs 
that normally cost $5 for as little as 99 cents.  
Customers will save on energy bills, too: CFLs 
use up to 75 percent less energy than standard 
incandescent bulbs. 9
 8
 7
 6
 5
 4
 3
 2
 1
 0
  Indiana Kentucky North Carolina Ohio South Carolina United States
   Duke Energy  Statewide  United States
  *Source: EEI Typical Bills and Average Rates, Summer 2006.Comparison of Average Electric Rates*Cents per kwh6.0 5.9 6.0
5.46.46.87.4
7.0
5.56.68.4environmental footprint14ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Reduce our environmental footprint
ChALLENGES
• Ensure reliable and cost-effective energy 
supplies for customers while minimizing  
our impact on the environment
• Help address and meet the challenge  
of reducing greenhouse gases
OPPORTUNITY• Share our expertise, ideas and leadership to 
demonstrate that the new energy equation 
can be solved through multiple supply and 
demand optionsof gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel for our 
service trucks and cars. We create waste 
streams in the process of generating electricity. 
And, our transmission and distribution systems 
are made of wood, steel and aluminum. Given 
our company’s reliance on these materials, it 
is essential that we use natural resources as 
efficiently as possible.  
Duke Energy has developed a comprehensive 
environmental, health and safety policy and 
management system to guide our actions. As  
a result, we:
• Establish processes to ensure compliance 
with environmental laws and regulations
• Set goals and measure performance
• Engage with stakeholders to advance mutual 
environmental objectives
• Proactively manage public policy issues such 
as climate change
• Emphasize environmental stewardship.
REDUCING AIR EMISSIONS
Emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen 
oxides (NOx) and mercury from coal-fired 
power plants continue to be a major focus  
area for lawmakers, regulators and the public.  
Duke Energy has taken, and continues to take, 
aggressive action to reduce its emissions:  
• Between 1998 and 2011, we are investing 
nearly $5 billion in controls to reduce our 
SO2, NOx and mercury emissions.
• By 2010, we project that both our SO2 and 
NOx emissions will be about 70 percent 
lower than they were in 1997.
• The technologies we’re installing to reduce 
SO2 and NOx also significantly reduce 
mercury emissions. Our current estimate 
places mercury removal at between 70 and 
80 percent. We will report further on the 
effectiveness of these controls to reduce 
mercury emissions when we have more data.Engineered wetland to treat 
wastewater at Marshall Steam 
Station, near Terrell, NC.OUR IMPACTS ON ThE ENvIRONMENT
Like any business, our operations leave an 
environmental footprint. We use natural 
resources such as coal, uranium, natural gas, 
oil and water to generate electricity for our 
customers. We also use tens of thousands GOALS• Promote U.S. federal policy mandating 
economy-wide reductions of greenhouse  
gas emissions
• Create the option to build new nuclear 
(carbon free) generation
• Pilot clean coal and other innovative  
technologies
• Secure cost-effective alternative sources  
of energy 
• Reduce, avoid and/or sequester at least 10 
million tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) equiva -
lents over the next eight years (2007-2014)
• Continue to focus on safe, reliable and 
efficient power plant operations
• Model energy efficiency internally
• Deliver on our commitment to reduce 
nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide emissions
• Develop next generation environmental  
goals in 2007 to further reduce our footprint Coal 104,929,426 70.7%
 Natural Gas/Oil 2,578,213   1.7%
 Hydro 867,996 0.6%
 Nuclear 40,422,697 27.0%
* Data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of all 
facilities.Sulfur Dioxide Emissions (Tons)*
2005 844,500
2006 812,600
Nitrogen Oxides Emissions (Tons)*
2005 160,400
2006 148,600
*  SO2 and NOx reported from electric generation only, and based on 
ownership share of stations. Combustion turbines not equipped 
with continuous emission monitors and facilities operated but not 
owned by Duke Energy Generation Services are not included.
Approximately 70 percent of the electricity  
Duke Energy produces for customers comes 
from coal, so CO2 releases are unavoidable. 
By using nuclear energy instead of coal for a 
portion of our generation, Duke Energy has 
avoided the release of approximately 1.1 billion 
tons of CO2 since the three nuclear stations 
entered service.
Carbon Dioxide Emissions (Tons)*
2005 107,400,000
2006 105,400,000
* Emissions are for U.S. and Latin American electric generation 
facilities.
15350,000
300,000
250,000
200,000
150,000
100,000
 50,000
 0
  ‘97 ‘98 ‘99 ‘00 ‘01 ‘02 ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘10Nitrogen Oxides Emissions (Tons)
900,000
800,000
700,000
600,000
500,000
400,000 300,000
 200,000
 100,000
 0
  ‘97 ‘98 ‘99 ‘00 ‘01 ‘02 ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘10Sulfur Dioxide Emissions (Tons)
Coal Consumption (Tons)
2006 46,500,000
2006 Coal Combustion Byproducts (Tons)
Beneficial Reuse 2,870,000
Land Disposal or Pond Stored 1,990,000
Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD)* 670,000
* FGD material is primarily a mixture of lime, fly ash and calcium 
sulfite created by the SO2 scrubber process.
2005 Toxic Release Inventory* (Pounds)
Releases to Air 80,172,829
Releases to Water 247,542
Releases to Land 15,234,393
Off-Site Transfers 77,123
Total 95,731,887
*  2006 data will not be available before July 2007. Data pertains 
to Duke Energy ownership share of facilities.
2006 Regulatory Citations*
13 Citations with $12,713 paid in fines/penalties
* Includes Notices of Violation and similar infractions of permits or 
licenses at facilities operated by Duke Energy.
2006 Oil Spills (Gallons)
75 Spills 3,251ENvIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
We continue to install pollution control equipment on our electric generating plants. NOx emissions have declined sharply as shown below, and 
SO2 is expected to show a similar decline as more “scrubbers” come into service. 2010 data is projected. 
More information on our air emissions is available at www.duke-energy.com/environment/air-quality.asp.2006 net MeGa Watt-hoUR GeneRation  
peRCentaGes BY fUel*
A
B
C
DAD
BCSO2 and NOx reported from electric generation only, and based on ownership share of  
stations. Combustion turbines not equipped with continuous emission monitors and  
facilities operated but not owned by Duke Energy Generation Services are not included.16ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
ThE NEED FOR  
NEW BASE L OAD  
GENERATION 
It’s been many years 
since Duke Energy has 
had to build a new 
“base load” power 
plant – that is, a 
plant that operates 
continuously. 
In fact, the last 
base load station 
built in the Midwest was the 
Zimmer Station in 1991. In the Carolinas, it 
has been over two decades since the Catawba 
Nuclear Station entered service in 1986. 
We’ve been able to meet rising demand for 
electricity without building new base load 
power plants by:
• Making our existing stations more efficient 
at producing power, despite adding pollu -
tion control equipment that requires more 
electricity
• Working closely with large customers to 
reduce their electric consumption during 
times of high demand • Implementing a variety of demand-side 
measures for large and small customers  
• Adding combustion turbines to provide peak 
power when needed during hot summer days 
or cold winter mornings
• Buying power from other generators when 
cost and reliability conditions are favorable. 
While these measures have delayed the  
need for new generation, they cannot offset 
entirely the rising demand for electricity. 
Regulated utilities are required by law to  
meet the energy needs of their customers. 
“Running out of power” simply is not an  
option. In the fast-growing Carolinas, 40,000 
to 60,000 customers join our system each 
year. Our service areas in Indiana, Kentucky 
and Ohio are adding 11,000 to 16,000 
customers a year. 
Forecasts indicate that our customers in 
the Carolinas will need an additional 2,120 
megawatts by 2011, increasing to an 
additional 6,120 megawatts by 2021. For 
perspective, Duke Energy Carolinas’ generating 
capacity is currently about 20,000 megawatts.
New Resource Requirements* (Megawatts)
Year Indiana Carolinas Kentucky Ohio
2011 275 2,120
No new generation is planned at this time Plans are being reviewed 2016 612 4,180
2021 797 6,120
* Figures represent cumulative totals to maintain a 15% reserve margin (Indiana) or 17% reserve margin (Carolinas) that may come from  
purchases, company-owned assets, and/or additional demand-side management.Cliffside station
Duke Energy proposed 
building two new 800-
megawatt power plants using 
supercritical coal technology 
at our Cliffside Station in North 
Carolina. This is the most envi -
ronmentally efficient pulverized 
coal technology available today, 
typically burning 10 percent less 
coal than conventional units and 
emitting significantly less sulfur 
dioxide and nitrogen oxides.
In March 2007, we received the for -
mal Order from the North Carolina Utilities 
Commission, which authorized building 
one of the two units. The Commission 
also accepted our commitment to invest 
1 percent of our revenues in the Carolinas 
for energy efficiency, subject to appropri -
ate regulatory treatment, and our plan to 
retire older, less efficient units.
Cliffside’s cost estimates were based 
on two units, and we still need an air 
permit for this project. We are studying 
the economics to determine whether we 
should proceed with the Cliffside project 
or consider other alternatives, includ -
ing natural gas-fired plants. We won’t 
make a decision until we have a clearer 
understanding of the overall costs, as well 
as the conditions of the air permit.
17LEvERAGING  
ALL FIvE FUELS
Even with the aggressive 
actions our company and 
customers have taken, we 
will need all five fuels – coal, nuclear, natural 
gas, renewables and energy efficiency – to 
meet customer needs. As an outcome of the 
Integrated Resource Planning process, we are 
considering several options, each with its own 
implications for the company’s environmental 
footprint:
• Constructing a nuclear power plant in South 
Carolina
• Constructing a modern, state-of-the-art 
pulverized coal-fired plant at our Cliffside 
Station in North Carolina
• Constructing an integrated gasification 
combined cycle (IGCC) plant that transforms 
coal into a synthetic gas to produce electricity 
at our Edwardsport Station in Indiana
• Building or buying additional natural  
gas-fired plants
• Designing additional energy efficiency and 
conservation measures 
• Pursuing renewable (wind, solar or biomass) 
power plant technologies where feasible.Wind poWeR
In September 
2006, Duke 
Energy Indiana 
entered into a 
20-year power 
purchase agreement with Benton County 
Wind Farm LLC to purchase the electric -
ity produced by a 100 megawatt wind 
power facility to be constructed in Benton 
County, Indiana. This project will add a 
clean, renewable energy source to Duke 
Energy’s portfolio, help boost the local 
economy and encourage innovative ways 
to generate power within the state. This 
agreement paves the way for the first sig -
nificant wind power project and long-term 
purchase of wind power in Indiana. 
hYBRid BUCket tRUCks
Duke Energy is among the first utilities in 
the nation to test diesel-electric service 
trucks. Three hybrid trucks are being 
tested for fuel economy and emissions-
reduction benefits. Independent tests 
show the hybrid trucks may provide 40 to 
60 percent fuel savings and reduced air 
emissions because the vehicles can oper -
ate the buckets in electric-only mode.
(Above) Gibson Station, near Mt. Carmel, IL, shows steam 
from its SO2 scrubbers. The cooling pond is in the middle 
ground and the Cane Ridge Wildlife Area is in the foreground. 
The two islands provide nesting habitat for the federal  endan -
gered Interior Least Tern.
(Left) Cayuga Station, near Cayuga, IN hosts Eagle Viewing Days 
one weekend each year. This event draws up to 2,000 visitors for 
an opportunity to see this American icon in its natural setting.
ENvIRONMENTAL STEWARDShIP
Every action counts in reducing our environ -
mental footprint; no effort is too small. In 
addition to improving local habitats, many of 
our environmental stewardship projects provide 
our customers and communities with opportu -
nities to experience nature. Here are just two 
examples: 
• Cane Ridge Wildlife Area  – Over 450 acres 
adjacent to the Gibson Station cooling pond 
were converted into an exceptional wildlife 
habitat, becoming one of the most successful 
conservation efforts in the Midwest.
• Nature Trails, Butterfly Gardens and Wildlife 
Food Plots  – With the help of area garden 
clubs, civic groups, Boy Scouts and Girl 
Scouts, all three nuclear stations in the 
Carolinas – and several other Duke Energy 
facilities – host natural areas to support  
local wildlife.
More information is available at  
www.duke-energy.com/environment.
18CLIMATE ChANGE AND  
DUKE ENERGY’S CALL TO ACTION
As the third largest consumer of coal in the 
U.S., Duke Energy is taking a leadership role  
in addressing global climate change.
OUR ThREE-PRONGED APPROACh
Our approach to greenhouse gases and climate 
change has three components:
• Promoting mandatory greenhouse gas  
reduction regulations
• Voluntarily reducing our greenhouse  
gas emissions
• Advancing technological innovations
Policy Leadership  – Duke Energy supports 
passage of federal legislation mandating 
economy-wide regulation of greenhouse gas 
emissions. We believe Congress should act now 
to establish a market-based program that would 
cap greenhouse gases emitted from all U.S. 
sources, including power generation, industrial 
and commercial sources and the transportation 
sector. Climate change is a global issue; there -
fore, it would be counterproductive for each 
state in our country to pass its own legislation 
with different requirements and incentives.
A national cap-and-trade program is our 
preferred approach. This type of program would 
set a price for greenhouse gases, thereby estab -lishing necessary price signals for the market -
place. Prices would also provide clear financial 
incentives to more aggressively develop 
technologies to reduce greenhouse gases. To 
permit the economy to adjust to the changes 
ahead, legislation should first focus on slowing 
the growth of greenhouse gas emissions and 
later transition to a declining national cap.
Congress should adopt economy-wide climate 
change legislation as soon as possible based on 
the proven cap and trade approach used in the 
Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and more 
recent regulatory programs. This will provide 
the necessary regulatory framework our nation 
needs to ensure utilities like Duke Energy can 
make the best long-term decisions on behalf of 
our customers and the environment. 
voluntary CO2 Reduction  – Duke Energy 
believes it is important to continue reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions even before these 
emissions are regulated. Our goal is to reduce, 
avoid and/or sequester 10 million tons of CO2 
equivalent emissions by 2014. We will be 
investing $3 million per year on various types 
of greenhouse gas reduction projects to achieve 
this goal.  In the past, we have invested in 
wind and solar power demonstrations, refores -
tation, power plant improvements and lighting 
upgrades, among other projects.ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
A
B
C
D
E
F 
 Residential 391.1  6%
 Electricity Generation 2,337.8  32%
 Transportation 1,955.1 28%
 Industry 1,377.3 20%
 Agriculture 491.3 7%
 Commercial 459.9 7%
Greenhouse gas emissions come from  
many sources. This chart shows that the  
largest contributors to total U.S. emissions  
are the electric generation, transportation  
and industrial sectors. A F
BD
CE2004 U.s . GReenhoUse Gas eMissions
By sector (Million Metric Tons CO2 Equivalent)*
* Source U.S. EPA. Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and 
Sinks: 1990-2004. April 15, 2006.19We are convinced that voluntary actions are 
not enough – a mandatory policy is needed to 
address climate change in a fair and economi -
cally sound manner. More information about 
our commitment is at www.duke-energy.com/
environment/climate-change.asp.   
Technological Innovation  – New technology 
will play an important role in achieving the 
country’s climate change objectives. We are 
supporting research and development on 
both supply-side and demand-side options.  
We have plans to build state-of-the-art coal 
and nuclear plants, and have been awarded 
significant federal investment tax credits for 
our Edwardsport Integrated Coal Gasification 
project and our Cliffside supercritical pulverized 
coal project. 
In addition, Duke Energy is involved in three 
of the seven Department of Energy regional 
carbon sequestration partnerships. Our East 
Bend Generating Station in Kentucky was 
chosen as a Phase II geologic sequestra -
tion project for the Midwest Regional Carbon 
Sequestration Partnership. The purpose of the 
project is to investigate the safety and effective -
ness of carbon sequestration.
Because geologic sequestration is not feasible 
in many parts of the U.S., we are working with other companies and the Electric Power 
Research Institute (EPRI) to evaluate the use 
of chilled ammonia to permanently capture 
and remove CO2 from flue gas. The goal is to 
continue using coal as a secure and affordable 
fuel for electric generation while reducing CO2 
emissions.
Duke Energy is also partnering with Southern 
Company on a potential new nuclear station 
in Cherokee County, SC. Additionally, we 
are actively involved in the NuStart Energy 
consortium, which will develop first-of-a-kind 
engineering for new nuclear reactors. 
SUPPORT FOR RESEARCh  
AND DEvELOPMENT
Much of Duke Energy’s research is done collab -
oratively. In 2006, we invested approximately 
$12.5 million in research on power generation, 
power delivery and environmental sciences. 
The largest portion of our research budget – 
approximately $10 million – went to EPRI.  
Founded in 1973, EPRI is an independent, 
nonprofit center for public interest energy and 
environmental research; its members represent 
over 90 percent of the electricity generated in 
the U.S. For every dollar we invest in EPRI, 
Duke Energy receives about $30 worth of 
collaborative research and knowledge.  CliMate ChanGe poliCY p aRtneRship
As a founding corporate sponsor, Duke Energy 
pledged $2.5 million to support climate change 
policy research at Duke Uni -
versity. The Climate Change 
Policy Partnership (CCPP), 
formed in August 2005, 
includes corporate partners, 
the Nicholas School of the Environment and  
Earth Sciences, the Nicholas Institute for 
Environmental Policy Solutions and The Center 
on Global Change. More information is at  
www.nicholas.duke.edu/institute/ccpp/.
qualityworkforce
20QUALITY WORKFORCE
Attract and retain a diverse, high-quality workforce
2006 SAFETY REvIEW
Last year was tragic for Duke Energy in one 
important respect: One employee and three 
contractors died due to accidents on the job. 
Of these, two were in U.S. Franchised Electric 
and Gas’ Power Delivery operations, one was 
at a construction project at Belews Creek 
Steam Station, and one was at Duke Energy 
Gas Transmission (now Spectra Energy). Our 
thoughts continue to be with the families 
affected by these tragedies.All major accidents at Duke Energy are rigor -
ously reviewed to understand the root cause and 
to prevent accidents in the future. Information 
about the accident and preventative actions are 
promptly shared within the company (including 
with the company’s board of directors) and, 
where appropriate, with contractors and other 
industry partners.ChALLENGES
• Improve employee and contractor safety  
• Compete with other companies and indus -
tries for the best talentOPPORTUNITIES• Become the leader in safe work practices 
• Maintain our reputation as a preferred 
employer and attract top talent by providing 
high-quality training, competitive benefits 
and a safe, satisfying work environment
GOALS• Achieve zero fatalities and top decile safety 
performance in total incident case rate (TICR) 
• Develop a culture of wellness by encouraging, 
supporting and rewarding improved employee 
health and well-being
• Drive understanding of the value of sustain -
ability within the company to inspire ideas 
and innovation• Attract, retain and engage a diverse, talented 
workforce by:
 • Implementing a more effective employee   
 recruitment and development plan
 • Developing and implementing innovative   
 employee programs and benefits
 • Launching ways to transfer or retain  
 critical knowledge
tell Me
Duke Energy’s “Tell Me” program encour -
ages employees to protect each other by 
identifying risky behavior 
and immediately stop -
ping those actions. The 
concept is simple: By 
wearing the “Tell Me” badge, employees 
invite others to tell them when they may 
be performing an unsafe act. 21IMPROvING SAFETY 
Improving employee and contractor safety is 
a top priority for our company. Because safety 
is an objective we share with other companies 
and industries, Duke Energy hosted a National 
Safety Summit in Washington, DC in October 
2006.
Approximately 80 participants from business, 
labor and government came to the summit to 
share data, lessons learned and best practices 
in contractor safety. In 2007, we are continuing 
to promote improved contractor safety by 
maintaining the momentum from the National 
Safety Summit and convening action within the 
trade association for investor-owned electric 
utilities, the Edison Electric Institute.
EMPLOYEE SAFETY D ATA
• Based on Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration criteria, in 2006, we had  
302 employee incidents during approxi -
mately 40.2 million work hours, a 7  
percent decrease from 2005.
• We met our 2006 total incident case rate 
(TICR) target of 1.50 and achieved a total 
lost workday case rate of 0.35. Our 2007 
target is a 5 percent improvement in the 
TICR, to 1.43. • Our natural gas operating unit in Ohio and 
Kentucky achieved strong improvement in 
safety performance in 2006, with half the 
number of personal injuries compared to 
2005 and the lowest TICR in 10 years. 
NEW SAFETY INCENTIvE 
To reinforce the role every employee plays in 
safety, all employees will receive a 5 percent 
increase in their short-term incentive payments 
if Duke Energy has no employee, contractor or 
sub-contractor fatalities in 2007. This provides 
an added incentive for vigilance and commu -
nication about unsafe working conditions. 
Additionally, management employees under the 
long-term incentive plan will lose 5 percent of 
their bonuses if certain TICR goals are not met.
EhS STEERING TEAM  
In 2006, we established an Environmental, 
Health and Safety Steering Team to reinforce 
our safety and environmental goals. Comprised 
of officers representing generating stations, 
natural gas operations, fleet services, 
purchasing, legal, human resources and 
engineering services, the steering team meets 
regularly to share information about compliance 
issues and best safety practices. The steering 
team also ensures consistent policy direction 
across the company.Chris Ayers, Line Specialist, works to 
restore power in Bloomington, IN after  
an early 2007 ice storm.
22QUALITY WORKFORCE
TALENT DEvELOPMENT AND  
KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER
A particular challenge for Duke 
Energy, like many electric utilities, 
is that approximately 40 percent of 
our employees will be eligible to 
retire within the next five years. 
To address knowledge transfer 
and retention, Jim Rogers has 
charged the top 50 leaders of 
Duke Energy with developing workforce 
plans that he will present to the board of 
directors in August.  
To develop the skills of our team, we conducted 
more than 2,400 training and professional development courses in 2006. In addition, 
job-rotation programs, apprenticeships, develop -
ment planning and training in leadership, 
management and technical areas were held. We 
also introduced Skillsoft E-learning, a new suite 
of more than 2,700 computer-based training 
courses in information technology, business 
skills and other subject areas. Available via the 
Internet, Skillsoft provides employees access to 
training at any time, from any location.
WORK/LIFE BALANCE
We recognize that our employees must balance 
work, home and community priorities and we 
offer a number of programs to help. Examples 
include:(Top to bottom) Rhonda Toodle, Customer Billing 
Information System Agent, processes service 
requests at the Customer Contact Center in 
Charlotte, NC.
Joseph Garcia, Senior Lineperson A, in full 
personal protective equipment, works out of  
our Todhunter district office near Monroe, OH.  
Kay Pashos, Vice President of Regulatory  
Strategy, is a key member of our Franchised 
Electric and Gas operating unit.
DIvERSITY AND INCLUSION
An inclusive workplace is one where employee 
differences are valued, where people are 
trusted to make good decisions and where 
they are able to connect with others across the 
company to achieve superior business results.    
Duke Energy has a number of initiatives to 
support an inclusive culture. These include 
regular “Open Forums” with company leaders, 
extensive training offerings, work/life balance 
programs and employee resource groups such 
as the Business Women’s Network and Minority 
Professional Association.
A Diversity Council, comprised of a cross 
section of company representatives, provides 
oversight and direction for the company’s 
diversity and inclusion initiatives. Diversity 
recruitment is aimed at particular segments of the population, such as women and people of 
color, in areas such as finance, accounting and 
engineering.
Workforce Diversity Statistics
Regular full-time employees as of  
Jan. 31, 200717,910
Females as percent of workforce 21.7%
Females as percent of management 17.5%
Ethnic Diversity
• Caucasian 81.9%
• African American 10.6%
• Hispanic 0.9%
• Asian/Pacific Islander 0.8%
• American Indian/Alaskan Native 0.3%
• Not Identified* 5.5%
Members of a collective  
bargaining unit25.8%
* Duke Energy International employees for whom gender and race 
data are not captured.23Wellness – Employee wellness programs 
include: education, medical screenings, risk 
assessment and behavior modification (if  
desired). We are also exploring new offerings 
such as smoking cessation and nutritional 
counseling. In 2007, Duke Energy will  
become an entirely smoke-free workplace.
Compensation and Benefits – To compete for 
the most talented employees, we have com -
pensation and benefits packages that include 
competitive pay, vacation, a 401(k) retirement 
savings plan with company match and a retire -
ment cash-balance pension plan.
We also support the volunteer and educational 
interests of our employees. For example, our 
Excellence in Education and Communities 
program gives all full-time employees 10 
hours of paid time off each year for activities at 
schools or to volunteer in their communities. 
Duke Energy goes well beyond legal require -
ments to support employees who serve in 
the armed forces. All non-unionized, eligible 
employees on approved military leave of 
absence are eligible to receive 100 percent 
of their base pay for up to 52 weeks on a 
continuous or intermittent basis and 75 percent 
of base pay for up to an additional 104 weeks.
Employee Opinion Survey  – Since 1990, Duke 
Energy has systematically measured employee 
opinions about the company. The 2006 survey, 
conducted after the merger, sampled approxi -
TOP TO BOTTOM
(Left to right) Marcelo Flores, David Morgan, 
Bobby Morrison, Reggie Little, Distribution Line 
Technicians, with the diesel/electric hybrid 
service truck now being tested at our Matthews, 
NC operations center.
Sirlene Flores, Customer Service Specialist,  
uses her bilingual skills to assist customers.
Joe Miller, General Manager of Zimmer Station, 
near Moscow, OH.
mately 40 percent of employees. Here are 
headlines from the results: 
• Most employees expressed a high degree 
of job satisfaction and saw 
Duke Energy as 
a performance-
based culture. 
• Employees valued 
diversity to a 
greater degree than 
in the past and at a 
level that continued 
to exceed national 
norms.
• Employees’ perception 
of management ethics 
showed steady  
improvement.
• But, employees expressed 
confusion and frustration over 
merger integration issues and a 
series of workforce reductions.
Results from the Employee Opinion 
Survey are shared broadly within the 
company. For example, two of the 
2007 Charter imperatives respond to 
employee feedback:
• Establish the identity and culture of the 
new Duke Energy, unifying our people, 
values, strategy, processes and systems.
• Optimize our operations by focusing on 
safety, simplicity, accountability, inclusion, 
customer satisfaction, cost management and 
employee development.strong communitiesSTRONG COMMUNITIES
Help build strong communities
2006 ECONOMIC DEvELOPMENT
Duke Energy was a key contributor to the 
economic growth of its service territories in 
2006. The three economic development 
regions – the Carolinas, Indiana and Greater 
Cincinnati – were instrumental in attracting 
new industry, helping existing customers 
expand and working with local communities  
to promote a favorable business environment. 
Our team of experienced business and 
economic developers had an extraordinary  
year and helped create more than 17,000  
new jobs and attract $5.1 billion in new  
capital investment across our service areas.
Citigroup, GSI Commerce Solutions, Pfizer, 
Poly-America and Fidelity are among the 
companies that chose Duke Energy-served 
sites for their expansion and relocation needs.  
Driven by efforts from our economic devel -
opment staff and state and local economic 
development professionals, we continued to 
diversify our economy by attracting high-wage 
and technology-intensive businesses. 
SUPPLIER DIvERSITY 
Duke Energy’s commitment to diversity extends 
beyond its employees to include suppliers, 
community organizations and our customers. 
We have a focused effort to identify and 
support businesses owned by women, minori -
ties and veterans. Our philosophy is that with 
a more diverse supplier base, we have stronger 
competition, which benefits our company and 
our communities.
2006 Diversity Expenditure* (in millions)
2005 2006 Increase over 2005
$132.1 $143.2 8.4%
* “Diversity” means women-, minority-, and veteran-owned  
businesses. 
24ChALLENGE
• Help keep our service regions competitive 
with other locations so that they can attract 
and retain the people, services and job 
opportunities that make a community vibrant 
OPPORTUNITY• Duke Energy’s customer and community 
programs can help differentiate the regions 
we serve 
GOALS• Partner to stimulate economic growth in our 
communities by attracting 12,500 jobs and 
$2.4 billion in capital investment in 2007
• Invest over $15 million annually in  
community programs that improve the 
quality of life in our communities
• Implement tools for our communities that  
will support their long-term planning 
• Develop and implement strategies to address 
future water issues that will arise from 
continued population growth in the Carolinas
• Increase spending with diverse suppliers  
by 5 percent a year 
• Implement initiatives to support public  
safety in our communities25ENERGY ASSISTANCE 
Duke Energy offers a number of initiatives 
to assist low-income customers, including 
programs that help customers reduce costs 
by improving energy efficiency, as well as 
programs and policies supporting energy 
assistance.
In 2006, over $10 million was contributed 
by Duke Energy, its customers, and the Duke 
Energy Foundation to energy assistance 
programs in the communities we serve. We 
partner with social service agencies to admin -
ister the programs in order to make energy 
assistance part of an integrated response 
to customers in need. In some cases, our 
customers and our Foundation also contribute 
funds for energy assistance.
The programs for energy assistance go by 
different names in the regions we serve:
• North and South Carolina: Share the 
Warmth, Fan Relief and Cooling Assistance 
• Ohio: HeatShare
• Kentucky: WinterCare 
• Indiana: Helping Hand
CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES
In addition to providing safe and reliable energy 
and serving as a major employer, Duke Energy 
also contributes to its communities with chari -
table grants and volunteerism. 
In 2006, charitable contributions totaled over 
$19 million. Adding in other company contribu -
tions, in-kind donations, employee and retiree 
volunteer time and their contributions through company programs and campaigns, Duke 
Energy – and its people – contributed close to 
$29 million in 2006.
PUBLIC SAFETY
Duke Energy has a number of programs to  
educate the public about electric and gas 
safety. In 2006, we organized, updated and 
expanded our public safety information on a 
number of topics, including: 
• Call Before You Dig 
• Report a Power Outage 
• Report a Gas Leak 
• Right of Way Management 
• Electric Safety 
• Gas Safety 
• Nuclear Emergency Preparedness 
• Contractors & First Responders Safety 
• Kids Safety 
• Identifying a Duke Energy Employee
To learn more about any of these  
topics, please visit our Web site at:  
www.duke-energy.com/safety/.
Duke Energy concentrates its electric and natu -
ral gas safety messages on four main audience 
groups: contractors, emergency first respond -
ers, school children and customers. We offer 
English and Spanish language booklets, videos, 
decals, trainers’ guides and other materials 
upon request.
We also continued radio, television and news -
paper safety messages, bill inserts and natural 
gas and electric safety demonstrations in our 
service areas.In addition, Duke Energy Carolinas 
continues to share its Bulk Power 
Marketing (BPM) profits through programs 
with industrial customers, the economic 
development community and public  
assistance agencies in the Carolinas. 
Charitable contributions from BPM  
profits to non-profit organizations in  
2006 totaled over $6.4 million. These 
grants benefitted energy assistance 
programs, the North Carolina Community 
College Grant Program and AdvanceSC  
for education in South Carolina.2006 Consolidated GivinG
Each year, we aggregate all of the 
contributions made by Duke Energy, 
including Foundation and other cash 
contributions; in-kind gifts and services; 
and the contributions and volunteerism of 
our employees and retirees. In 2006, Duke 
Energy giving totaled close to $29 million.
 Foundation Charitable Donations 65%
 Employee/Retiree Volunteer Time 16%
 Employee/Retiree Giving 15%
 Cash & In-Kind Goods/Services 4%A
B
C
DACD
BDUKE ENERGY FOUNDATION
The Duke Energy Foundation concentrates its 
grants in three areas: 
• Environment and Energy Efficiency –  
Grants for conservation, training, research 
and energy efficiency services.
• People Working Cooperatively is a non-
profit organization in the Greater Cincinnati 
area that provides critical home repairs 
and energy conservation services to low-
income and elderly residents. In addition 
to Foundation funding, Duke Energy 
employees volunteer their time and energy 
to repair homes in the community.
• Economic Development  – Funding for skills 
development; pre-K-12 education focused 
on math, science and technology; higher education; government or other non-profit 
programs supporting innovative solutions for 
business, industry and workforce challenges.
• The Duke Energy Foundation provided the 
lead gift to create the Charlotte Research 
Institute (CRI) at the University of North 
Carolina – Charlotte. CRI offers advanced 
engineering and technical training to help 
transform our regional economy.   
• Community vitality  – Contributions 
supporting health and human services 
through United Way; arts and culture; 
energy assistance; public safety; and 
community leadership development.
• In 2006, Duke Energy employees, retirees 
and The Duke Energy Foundation pledged 
over $4.5 million to the United Way 
26United Wa Y sUMMit aW aRd
United Way of America honored Duke 
Energy in 2006 with its Summit Award, 
recognizing the company’s commitment to 
improving local communities.STRONG COMMUNITIES
(Left to right) Vincent Davis, Director of Customer Operations, helps 
build a handicapped-accessible ramp and deck in Cincinnati, OH.
Eileen Olofson and Stephanie Liles, Office and Communications 
Services, help at a local food bank. 
Joe Needham, Senior Applications Systems Analyst, installs a new 
computer system at a youth camp near Indianapolis, IN.27chapters in the communities we serve.  
We also partner with the American Red 
Cross to provide storm preparedness kits 
and disaster assistance.  
We recognize that every community is unique, 
with different challenges and strengths.  
Requests for company resources are received 
and evaluated locally by our network of 70 
business relations managers. By listening and 
responding to the varied needs of our commu -
nities, these managers help match company 
resources with regional needs and share best 
practices across our service areas. Guidelines 
and an application for grant funding are  
available at www.duke-energy.com/community/
foundation.asp. 
vOLUNTEERISM
Volunteerism and civic leadership are important 
attributes of Duke Energy’s history and culture.  
It is part of what defines us as a company.  
Here are some statistics on the strength and 
impact of our volunteer efforts in 2006:
• Total volunteer projects: 530 
• Volunteers participating: 8,000 (estimated)
• Employee and retiree volunteer hours: 
268,800 (estimated)
• Number of charitable organizations  
reached: 375  
• Number of communities helped: 167 While volunteerism is a year-round commit -
ment at Duke Energy, we conduct an annual 
Global Service Event (GSE) to recognize and 
encourage volunteerism. In 2007, we will 
celebrate the 10th GSE in April and May. 
GSE has become a popular way for us to  
show the power of our teamwork, inspire 
volunteerism and build our brand. During 
the 2006 GSE, employees and retirees spent 
approximately 15,000 hours planning and 
participating in nearly 400 volunteer projects in 
almost 140 communities in the U.S. and Latin 
America. Their efforts touched more than 290 
different nonprofit organizations.
COMMUNITY PLANNING
Sustainability is a concept that is good for 
business and communities. In partnership 
with Global Community Initiatives (www.
global-community.org), we offer a Web-based 
tool to help civic leaders evaluate the “sustain -
able health” of their communities. Partici -
pants respond to a series of questions about 
their local governance practices and social, 
economic and environmental conditions, 
and then receive feedback on their perfor -
mance based on best practices in community 
planning. They also receive a list of resources 
to further improve their performance. This  
tool is available on our Web site at www.duke-
energy/environment/sustainability.asp.GOVERNANCE & TRANSPARENCY
Be profitable and demonstrate strong governance and transparency
PROFITABILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY
Duke Energy believes that profitability is a 
prerequisite for sustainability. A business that 
isn’t profitable simply won’t be in business  
for long.
In 2006, we transformed ourselves into a more 
sustainable company by unlocking our inherent 
value and reducing the risk in our business. 
Four actions contributed to this change:
• The completion of our merger with Cinergy  
to grow the electric side of our business
• The spinoff of our natural gas transmis -
sion and related business lines into Spectra 
Energy
• The formation of a joint venture to manage 
our real estate business  • The reduction in our risk profile by selling 
our unregulated power plants outside of 
the Midwest and by selling our Commercial 
Marketing and Trading business.
 
Financial Highlights (In millions except for per 
share data)*
2006 2005
Operating 
Revenues$15,184 $16,297
Operating 
Expenses$12,493 $13,416
Net Income $1,863 $1,824
Earnings per 
Share, Diluted$1.57 $1.88
Dividends per 
Share$1.26 $1.17
Total Assets $68,700 $54,723
*  Includes natural gas operations spun off to become Spectra 
Energy in January 2007.
28
governance &transparency
ChALLENGE
• Earn the trust of our stakeholdersOPPORTUNITIES• Differentiate Duke Energy for its strong 
 
governance practices
• Achieve synergies and competitive  
advantages from the Cinergy merger
GOALS• Provide investors a superior and sustainable 
return on their investment
• Assure that we have effective ethics and 
compliance programs
• Regularly benchmark our corporate gover -
nance practices against best-in-class and  industry peers and recommend revisions as 
appropriate
• Assess our supply chain (services and 
products) from a sustainability perspective 
and implement appropriate follow-up actions 
• Communicate clearly and frequently with our 
stakeholders29AN INDEPENDENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
An effective board of directors is considered one 
of the strongest indicators of shareholder value 
and good governance.
Elected annually, the board consists of nine 
outside members in addition to Jim Rogers, 
Duke Energy’s chairman, president and CEO.  
Ann Maynard Gray serves as lead director.  
None of the outside directors has a material 
relationship with Duke Energy or its subsid -
iaries, so the board is independent under 
the listing standards of the New York Stock 
Exchange and the rules of the U.S. Securi -
ties and Exchange Commission. Additional 
members, expected to be named in 2007,  
will bring broader and more diverse perspec -
tives to the board.
Although all employees are subject to our  
Code of Business Ethics, Duke Energy’s 
board of directors adopted a Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics to address the issues 
unique to their responsibilities. That code is 
available at www.duke-energy.com/investors/
corporate-governance.asp.COMMUNICATING WITh ThE BOARD 
Shareholders and other stakeholders can 
communicate with the lead director or any 
board member by writing to the corporate 
secretary, who forwards correspondence to 
the appropriate director. In addition, the Audit 
Committee has established a protocol for the 
receipt, retention and treatment of complaints 
regarding accounting, internal accounting 
controls or auditing matters.  
EThICS INvESTIGATIONS
Duke Energy strives to provide an environment 
where employees feel free to raise work-
related concerns without fear of intimidation 
or retaliation. The company has also retained 
an independent provider to take concerns 
from employees who are not comfortable with 
internal reporting options or who prefer to use 
the confidential Ethics Line to report anony -
mously. All allegations are investigated and the 
results are reported to the Audit Committee of 
the board of directors.ContaCt infoRMation
Board of directors:
Julia Janson, Corporate Secretary
Duke Energy, EA 025
221 East Fourth Street
Cincinnati, OH  45202
 
Members of the public may also  
contact the company or the board  
through the Duke Energy Web site,  
www.duke-energy.com/contact/, or by 
phone: 704.594.6200 / 800.873.3853.Comparison of 2006 Total Return
 30%
 15%
 0%
  26.3% 15.8% 20.0%
   Duke Energy Corporation (pre-spinoff  
  of Spectra Energy)  
  S&P 500 Index  
  Philadelphia Stock Exchange  
  Utility Sector IndexComparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return*
 $200
 $150
 $100
 $50
 0
  Dec. 01 Dec. 02 Dec. 03 Dec. 04 Dec. 05 Dec. 06
  $100.00 $51.80 $57.98 $75.50 $85.39 $107.81
  $100.00 $77.90 $100.25 $111.15 $116.61 $135.02
  $100.00 $81.65 $101.95 $128.57 $151.99 $182.44
  * Assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2001 in company common  
  stock and each index. Values are as of December 31 assuming dividends are  
  reinvested.INvESTORS’ RETURN
2007 is the 81st consecutive year that Duke Energy has paid a quarterly cash dividend.30GOVERNANCE & TRANSPARENCY
SUPPLY ChAIN
Duke Energy adopted a Supplier Code of 
Conduct in 2006 to clearly establish our 
expectations of the companies we do business 
with. We expect our suppliers to conduct their business with the same regard for fair dealing, 
respect for the individual and the environment 
and quality service standards that we expect of 
ourselves. The Code is available at www.duke-
energy.com/suppliers/code-of-conduct.asp.GloBal RepoRtinG initiative:
BRoad index to indiCatoRs
Standard Disclosures
Pages 1-7, 28-31
Economic Indicators
Pages 18, 24-28
Environmental Indicators
Pages 11,12, 14-19
Product Responsibility Indicators
Pages 13,15
Labor Practices and  
Decent Work Indicators
Pages 20-23
Human Rights Indicators
Pages 7, 29
Society Indicators
Pages 4, 10-12, 18, 20, 25
A much more detailed index to all indica -
tors is available at www.duke-energy.
com/environment/sustainability.asp.OUR GOvERNANCE PERFORMANCE
Several organizations rate the quality and performance of a corporation’s governance practices.  
We monitor the ratings of these three organizations as benchmarks for Duke Energy:
Rating Organization Duke Energy Score Scale
The Corporate Library  (Feb. 15, 2007)1
TCL Rating
Governance Risk Assessment     
Governance Practices ComplianceB 
Low
93%A-F (No E)
Low or High
0%-100% 
Institutional Shareholder Services –  
Corporate Governance Quotient  (Feb. 15, 2007)2
Index Ranking
Industry Ranking13.8
30.70-100
0-100
GovernanceMetrics International  (Dec. 2, 2006)3
Overall Global 9.0 0-10
1 The TCL Rating, Governance Risk Assessment and Governance Practices Compliance Score values are published by permission from The  
Corporate Library, LLC. For further explanation and information, go to www.thecorporatelibrary.com.
2 The ISS CGQ scores are published by permission from Institutional Shareholder services. For further information, go to www.issproxy.com.
3 The GovernanceMetrics International score is published by permission from GovernanceMetrics International. For further information, go to  
www.gmiratings.com.31Case stUd Y in CollaBoRation:
Cata WBa-WateRee hYdRo  
ReliCensinG
Duke Energy’s Catawba-Wateree 
Hydroelectric Project is the backbone 
of the company’s generation portfolio 
in the Carolinas, consisting of 13 hydro 
plants, 11 reservoirs and 225 river miles. 
The Catawba-Wateree system is also an 
important resource to the residents of the 
Piedmont Carolinas, touching 14 counties 
in North Carolina and South Carolina.
With its license for the Catawba-Wateree 
system approaching renewal, Duke Energy 
collaborated with regional stakeholders 
to develop recommendations to improve, 
balance and sustain the power and non-
power uses of the Catawba system for the 
next 40 to 50 years.
The relicensing agreement took more than 
three years to develop. More than 160 
representatives from over 80 organiza -
tions in the Carolinas participated in the 
process, attending more than 300 meet -
ings and analyzing  over 2,100 interests in 
the river. The Comprehensive Relicensing 
Agreement, filed with the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission in August 2006, 
was signed by 70 parties.
This collaboration is a powerful example 
of stakeholders finding common ground to 
protect and preserve the Catawba River. 
We’ve developed a summary case study 
of the process and its outcomes at: www.
duke-energy.com/pdfs/cw-brochure.pdf STAKEhOLDER ExPECTATIONS
Duke Energy is committed to balancing the interests of our stakeholders. We have several pathways 
and programs to hear and respond to stakeholders’ needs.
Stakeholders Expectations Fulfillments
Customers • Reasonable costs
• Reliable supply
• Good customer service
• Safe operations
• Minimal air and water emissions
• Energy efficiency advice
• Community involvement• Strong management systems
• Efficient cost control practices
• Business relations managers’ accessibility
• Customer satisfaction surveys 
• Environmental compliance
• Customer communication and  
Web site information
• Volunteerism
Employees • Safe workplace
• Competitive pay and benefits
• Open communications
• Career development opportunities
• Fair and consistent treatment
• Strong corporate reputation• Safe work practice policies and training
• The Portal (online corporate  
information resource)
• Career training and development
• Benchmarking with industry peers
• Open Forums with executives 
• Confidential ethics hotline
• Community involvement
Communities • Community development
• Involvement with local initiatives
• Public safety
• Employment opportunities
• Volunteerism
• Rapid service restoration• Business relations managers’ involvement  
in communities
• Economic development assistance
• Global Service Event and other volunteer efforts 
• Duke Foundation grants
• Cooperative service restoration agreements  
with other utilities
Suppliers • Fair dealing
• Timely payment
• Opportunities to grow their 
businesses• Supplier Code of Conduct
• Competitive bidding process
• Confidential ethics hotline
• Minority/women/veterans business  
procurement practices
Investors • Competitive returns
• Strong board governance
• Management accountability
• Regulatory compliance
• Strong corporate reputation
• Transparent reporting• Strong financial performance
• 81 years of cash dividends
• Comprehensive management and ethics policies
• www.duke-energy.com/investors
• Investment grade credit ratings
• Strong balance sheet
Regulators • Reasonable cost and  
reliable supply
• Regulatory compliance
• Transparent reporting
• Collaborative policy debates
• Community involvement• Effective management policies and systems
• “No surprises” practices
• Policy leadership
Non-Government 
Organizations• Transparent reporting
• Accessibility
• Engage in problem-solving
• Research and policy leadership• Partnerships and collaboratives on several issues 
and at various levels
• Annual sustainability and financial reports
• Joint research projects
• Stakeholder dialoguesINDEPENDENT REVIEW
Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) reviewed 
Cinergy’s 2004 and 2005 Sustainability Reports 
prior to the merger with Duke Energy, and our 
annual review has continued with the new Duke 
Energy. This year, we commented on an early 
report outline, facilitated a series of stakeholder 
discussions on report content, and prepared  
this independent review of the final report. It 
should be noted that our review neither verifies 
nor expresses an opinion on the accuracy, 
materiality or completeness of the information 
provided in this report.
This year, we are particularly impressed with the:
• Sustainability Context  –The CEO letter 
succinctly identifies the most pressing societal 
issues for Duke Energy and links these issues 
to the company’s operations and activities. 
Of these, the company’s aggressive stance 
on climate change policy distinguishes it as a 
sustainability leader among American utilities.
• Balance  – In addition to highlighting 
successes, Duke Energy speaks frankly about 
failures in sustainability performance – for 
example, in the area of safety – and clearly 
outlines how it plans to rectify these failures. 
The company also shares ongoing challenges 
associated with the merger, including 
employee frustration and the need for stronger 
measures of sustainability performance in  
the future.
• Response to Stakeholder Feedback  – Since 
BSR reviewed earlier versions of the report,  
we can highlight Duke Energy’s efforts to 
respond to stakeholder feedback in the final 
version, including:
• More coverage of policy and technological 
responses to climate change.
• More information about the company’s 
investment in research and development, 
particularly clean technologies.• More thorough and more explicit  
goal definition in the area of “strong  
communities.”
In looking ahead to future reports, we 
encourage Duke Energy to strive for  
the following:
• Demonstrate progress on the goals set out 
in this report. We readily acknowledge the 
limitations Duke Energy faced this year in 
integrating the sustainability performance of 
two previously separate companies, and the 
need for better, more quantitative measure -
ments moving forward. In future reports, we 
look forward not only to a careful review of 
Duke Energy’s performance against existing 
and soon-to-be-created benchmarks, but 
also insightful examples of how the goals are 
being achieved across business units and at 
the front-lines with customers, employees 
and communities.
• Address how the company will respond to 
stakeholder concerns about coal and nuclear 
generation. In this year’s report, Duke Energy 
articulated the case for increasing base load 
generation and identified the various alterna -
tives it is considering. These decisions are 
clearly complex and potentially very conten -
tious for stakeholders. While we know that 
Duke Energy does engage with stakeholders 
on these issues, we want to hear more in 
next year’s report about the process and the 
results of engagement, as well as the steps 
Duke Energy is taking to respond to any 
health, safety, and environmental concerns 
associated with coal and nuclear generation.
Anamaria Nino-Murcia
Manager, Energy & Extractives Program
Business for Social Responsibility
March 23, 2007
32
foRW aRd-lookinG stateMent
This report includes statements that do not directly or 
exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are 
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 
27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. One can typically identify 
forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking 
words such as: may, will, could, project, believe, expect, 
estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecast and other 
similar words. Those statements represent Duke Energy’s 
intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs 
about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties 
and other factors, many of which are outside Duke Energy’s 
control and could cause actual results to differ materially 
from the results expressed or implied by those forward-look -
ing statements. Those factors include: state, federal and 
foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost 
and investment recovery, have an impact on rate structures, 
and affect the speed at and degree to which competition en -
ters the electric and natural gas industries; the outcomes of 
litigation and regulatory investigations, proceedings or inqui -
ries; industrial, commercial and residential growth in Duke 
Energy’s service territories; additional competition in Duke 
Energy’s markets and continued industry consolidation; 
the influence of weather on company operations, including 
the economic, operational and other effects of hurricanes, 
tornados or other natural phenomena; the timing and extent 
of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign 
currency exchange rates; general economic conditions, 
including any potential effects arising from terrorist attacks 
and any consequential hostilities; changes in environmental 
and other laws and regulations to which Duke Energy and 
its subsidiaries are subject; the results of financing efforts, 
including Duke Energy’s ability to obtain financing on 
favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, 
including Duke Energy’s credit ratings and general economic 
conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities 
and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy’s 
defined benefit pension plans; the level of creditworthiness 
of counterparties to Duke Energy’s transactions; the amount 
of collateral required to be posted from time to time in Duke 
Energy’s transactions; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy’s business units, including the timing and success 
of efforts to develop domestic and international power; the 
performance of electric generation facilities; the effect of ac -
counting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting 
standard-setting bodies; the ability to successfully complete 
merger, acquisition or divestiture plans, including the prices 
at which Duke Energy is able to sell assets; and the success 
of the business following a merger, acquisition or divestiture.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the 
events described in the forward-looking statements might 
not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different 
time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy under -
takes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise. Information contained in this 
report is unaudited, and is subject to change.
non-Gaap finanCial MeasURe
 
foReCasted 2007 onGoinG  
seGMent and total seGMent eBit
This report includes a discussion of forecasted 2007 ongoing 
EBIT for each of Duke Energy’s reportable segments as a 
percentage of forecasted 2007 ongoing total segment EBIT. 
Forecasted 2007 ongoing segment and total segment EBIT 
amounts are non-GAAP financial measures, as they reflect 
segment and total segment EBIT, adjusted for the impact of 
special items. Special items represent certain charges and 
credits which management believes will not be recurring 
on a regular basis. The most directly comparable GAAP 
measure for forecasted ongoing segment EBIT is reported 
segment EBIT from continuing operations, which includes 
the impact of special items. The most directly comparable 
GAAP measure for ongoing total segment EBIT is reported 
total segment EBIT, which includes the impact of special 
items. Due to the forward-looking nature of these non-GAAP 
financial measures for future periods, information to recon -
cile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly 
comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at 
this time, as management is unable to forecast any special 
items for any future periods.
INSIDE BACK COVER  
Path at Riverbend Park in Catawba County, NC. Photo courtesy of 
Thomas Wyche.
ON THE BACK COVER (Top to bottom)  
Bobby Morrison, Distribution Line Technician, installs new equipment.
In conjunction with People Working Cooperatively, Rachelle Caldwell, 
Public and Community Affairs Manager, and Kim Glenn, Distribution 
Design Supervisor, prepare to landscape the home belonging to a 
low-income customer. 
Duke Energy line crews prepare to leave in response to a call  
for mutual assistance for storm damage repair.
PRINTING INFORMATION:  
This report was printed in the USA on Neenah Environment paper.  
At least 20 percent of the fiber content is certified to have come from 
responsibly managed forests and is elemental chlorine free. The 
remaining 80 percent is composed of post-consumer fiber and is 
process chlorine free. ContaCt infoRMation
We welcome your comments and questions about this 
report. Send any feedback to:
Roberta Bowman, Vice President,  
Sustainability and Community Affairs
526 South Church Street
Mail Code: EC03H
Charlotte, NC 28202
rbowman@duke-energy.comDuke Energy
526 South Church Street
Charlotte, NC 28202
www.duke-energy.com
