Well positioned.2011|2012 Sustainability ReportCompany Profile
Duke Energy is one of the largest electric power holding companies in the 
United States. Our regulated utility operations serve 4 million electric customers in the Carolinas, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky, and a half-million natural gas 
customers in Ohio and Kentucky. Our Commercial Power and International 
Energy business segments own and operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the United States.
Our Mission
At Duke Energy, we make people’s lives better by providing gas and electric services in a sustainable way — affordable, reliable and clean. This requires us to constantly look for ways to improve, to grow and to reduce our impact on the environment.
Our Values
 XSafety  — We put safety first in all we do.
 XCaring — We look out for each other. We strive to make the environment and communities around us better places to live.
 XIntegrity — We do the right thing. We honor our commitments. We admit when we’re wrong.
 XOpenness  — We’re open to change and to new ideas from our co-workers, 
customers and other stakeholders. We explore ways to grow our business and make it better.
 XPassion  — We’re passionate about what we do. We strive for excellence. 
We take personal accountability for our actions.
 XRespect  — We value diverse talents, perspectives and experiences. 
We treat others the way we want to be treated.2011 Recognition
 XIn 2011, for the second consecutive year, Duke Energy was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World 
Index (DJSI World). We were also 
named to the North American DJSI for the sixth year in a row.
 XCorporate Responsibility magazine named Duke Energy to its 2011 “100 Best Corporate Citizens List.” 
 XDuke Energy was listed on the Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index — a ranking of large U.S. companies 
that publicly engage on the issue of 
climate change.
Additional awards and recognition are mentioned throughout this report. Contents 
Duke Energy at a Glance ........  3
Letter from the Chairman .......  5
Sustainability Plan and  Progress at a Glance ...........  8
Innovative Products and Services .. 10
Environmental Footprint  ........  16
Quality Workforce  ............  25
Strong Communities ...........  29
Governance and Transparency .... 32
Global Reporting Initiative .......  34
Independent Review ...........  35Duke Energy’s 2011 Annual Report and this 2011|2012 Sustainability Report again share a common theme. “Well positioned” is an apt description of our company in 2012, as we start to see real results from the plans we’ve put in place to prepare for the future. 
This report describes our progress in bringing advanced energy technologies 
to market, reducing our environmental footprint, strengthening our position as a best-in-class employer, contributing to the vitality of our communities and growing our business in a responsible way. 
Key features of this year’s report include:
 XCEO Jim Rogers’ letter, which explains how the company is well-positioned 
for the future
 XA two-page overview of progress toward our goals (Sustainability Plan and Progress at a Glance)
 XSpecifics on the company’s performance in our five sustainability focus areas
 XDuke Energy employees’ own accounts of their roles in our sustainability efforts.
As in the past, this report is available in both print and Web versions. The printed 
report covers the issues that are most important to our stakeholders and to us. 
We denote online-only content, including mouse-over definitions, with this icon: . 
We also list Web exclusive articles in each section of the printed report.
In addition, we provide a summary index to the Global Reporting Initiative 
indicators in the printed report and a more detailed index on our website. 
Duke Energy International’s Sustainability Report, which covers our Latin 
American operations in detail, is available at duke-energy.com. 
As always, we welcome your feedback on this report, our sustainability 
progress and related issues. Email sustainability@duke-energy.com.
2 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTABOUT THIS REPORT  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  3COMMERCIA l POwER
Commercial Power owns, 
operates and manages power plants, primarily 
located in the Midwest, 
and a renewable energy portfolio. Commercial 
Power’s subsidiary, 
Duke energy r etail, serves 
retail electric customers primarily in Ohio with 
generation and other energy 
services at competitive rates. Commercial Power also includes Duke energy g eneration 
Services (D egS), an on-site energy solutions and utility 
services provider. 
 XOwns and operates a balanced generation portfolio of approximately 7,550 net MW of power generation (excluding wind and solar generation assets)
 XDuke energy r enewables currently has over 1,000 MW 
of wind e nergy in operation, owns 55 MW of commer -
cial solar capacity and has a significant pipeline of 
development projects
DUKE ENERGY INTERNATIONA l
Duke energy International 
(DeI) operates and manages 
power generation facilities 
and engages in sales and 
marketing of electric power outside the u .S. DeI’s 
activities target power 
generation in l atin America. 
DeI also has an equity 
investment in n ational 
Methanol Co., a Saudi 
Arabian regional producer 
of MTbe , a gasoline additive.
 XOwns, operates or has substantial interests in 
approximately 4,300 net MW of generation facilities
 Xnearly 70 percent of D eI’s generating capacity is 
hydroelectricU.S. F RANCHISED El ECTRIC AND G AS
u.S. Franchised e lectric and g as (uSFe&g) consists of 
Duke energy’s regulated generation, and electric and gas transmission and distribution systems. u SFe&g’s generation 
portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide energy at the lowest possible cost. 
Electric Operations
 XOwns approximately 27,400 megawatts (MW) of 
generating capacity
 XService area covers about 50,000 square miles with an estimated population of 12 million 
 XService to approximately 4 million residential, commercial and industrial customers 
 XOver 152,200 miles of distribution lines and a 20,900-mile transmission system
Gas Operations
 Xregulated natural gas transmission and distribution services 
to approximately 500,000 customers in southwestern Ohio and northern k entuckyDUKE ENERGY AT A G lANCE: YEAR -END 2011
Generation Diversity
(percent owned capacity)
 
 natural gas 44% 
 Coal 41% 
 renewable  12% 
 Other  3%
Generation Diversity(percent owned capacity)
 
 Hydro  68% 
 Fuel oil 19% 
 natural gas  11%
 Coal  2%Generation Diversity(percent owned capacity)
 
 Coal 47% 
 natural gas/fuel oil  22% 
 nuclear  19% 
 Hydro  12% Customer Diversity(in billed gigawatt-hour sales)
 
 residential 33% 
 Commercial  32% 
 Industrial  26% 
 Wholesale/other  9% Why does sustainability continue to be a 
priority at Duke Energy?  We continue to see 
a compelling business case for sustainability. Simply put, it creates value throughout our 
company. It’s also a continuation of our proud 
history of corporate citizenship. And it pushes 
us to find the right balance among the needs 
of people, the planet and profits. 
Of course, actions speak louder than words. 
That’s why we set concrete goals to work toward 
every year. Tangible examples of “sustainability 
in action” include our efforts to reduce landfill 
waste, to offer new energy efficiency programs 
to our customers and to develop more renew -
able energy projects, just to name a few. The benefits of these and other actions, many of 
which are highlighted in this report, create that 
business case for sustainability.
Sustainability will remain a priority as our 
company moves forward, because the benefits 
are real — as are the risks associated with 
overlooking sustainability issues.
How will Duke Energy build on its framework 
for sustainability?  Our overall approach must 
be as dynamic as the energy industry itself. We must continually adjust our strategies and our actions to account for the changing expecta -
tions of our stakeholders, advancements in 
technology, the political landscape and more. 
We must continue to deliver affordable, 
reliable and increasingly cleaner energy. We 
need to maintain our leading role in providing 
the innovative products and services our 
customers want. We must also continue to 
shape public policy. We’re actively engaged 
in each of these areas — and we’ll continue to collaborate with our stakeholders to find 
sustainable solutions to our industry’s issues.
We’ve built a strong foundation for 
sustainability since 2006. Back then, 
“sustainability” was misunderstood and 
even rejected by some of our employees 
and external stakeholders. Today, a growing 
number of stakeholders are not only interested 
in sustainability, but also expect the company 
to be a leader in this area.
As a result of engaging our employees in 
sustainability, dozens of innovations are paying 
off internally and in our communities. In 2012 
and beyond, we will continue to provide 
employees with the tools and training they 
need to act on their own ideas, and expand our 
network of internal sustainability champions. 
What excites you the most about leading 
sustainability for Duke Energy at this 
particular time?  We’re going through an 
incredibly transformative era for our industry. Evolving environmental regulations and 
emerging technologies will have profound 
impacts on our customers and company well 
into the future. I believe that sustainability 
can provide the road map for Duke Energy to 
successfully navigate this uncharted territory.
No single person or department “owns” 
sustainability at Duke Energy — it is a 
collaborative effort. Sustainability leadership 
is evident throughout our company, but it must 
also become part of our organizational DNA. 
I firmly believe we’re heading in that direction.
Duke Energy has always been about providing 
electricity and gas services — and so much 
more. The way we go about our business has a 
direct and lasting impact on the communities 
where we operate, the customers we serve, 
the shareholders who invest in our business 
and, of course, the environment. We recognize 
and embrace the opportunity in front of us 
— to conduct our business in a way that is 
truly sustainable.Shawn Heath was 
named Duke Energy’s chief sustainability officer in early 2012. In this Q&A, he offers his perspective on Duke Energy’s journey to a sustainable future.
I’m Accountable Shawn Heath, Vice President, Sustainability 
and Chief Sustainability Officer
4 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTDear Stakeholders:  
Sustainability is about doing the 
right things today, to create a better 
tomorrow. l ike anything worth doing, 
that’s not always easy. As we prepare 
for the future, we must also deal with the realities of today.
The current realities for Duke energy 
are the rising cost of providing clean and reliable energy, navigating the regulatory process for a major merger, managing through a painfully slow economic 
recovery and, as always, balancing the 
needs of our many stakeholders.
I approach my role as C eO as a 
leader who looks to the future and 
positions our company for what’s next. 
We need to be ready to meet ever-higher environmental standards, to embrace the latest technologies, and to forge new partnerships — around 
the corner and around the globe.
I’m proud of the progress we’ve 
made. We are finding that sustainability 
is one of the ways we are unlocking 
innovation and improving our business. 
And, in a challenging economy, it helps us increase efficiency and reduce costs.Our most recent accomplishments 
are outlined in this report and in our annual report 
, which shares the 
“Well positioned” theme.
Here, I’ll briefly summarize the 
highlights of the past year, and how we’re positioned for the future. but first, a word about the status of our pending merger with Progress energy.
We spent considerable time and 
energy on merger integration planning throughout 2011. r egulatory approval, 
frankly, is taking longer than we expected. In particular, the Federal 
energy r egulatory Commission (F erC) 
has raised concerns about the merged 
company’s potential wholesale market power in the Carolinas. 
Our goal for this merger is to strike 
the right balance between benefits to our customers and our shareholders. We must also balance the expectations of our state commissions to keep 
electricity costs low, and the F erC’s 
concerns about market power.
On March 26, we filed a revised 
wholesale market power mitigation plan with the F erC, and as of this Letter  
From The 
ChairmanJim Rogers, Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer
We are finding that 
sustainability is one of the ways we are unlocking innovation and improving our business. And, in a challenging economy, 
it helps us increase 
efficiency and reduce costs.
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  5writing we are awaiting the agency’s 
decision. The merger is also subject to approvals by the n orth Carolina and 
South Carolina commissions, and other legal conditions prior to closing.
The closing date will depend on the 
successful completion of the regulatory 
approval process. As a merged or stand-
alone company, we are well-positioned for the future — and for the changes new technologies will bring to the way we generate and deliver electricity. 
Real results
Through a year marked by merger 
uncertainty, a slow-to-recover economy 
and major storms in the Carolinas and 
the Midwest, I could not be more proud of our employees. The people of Duke energy have always laid the groundwork and done the hard work to meet our 
customers’ energy needs.
I look back on 2011 as the year 
we saw our vision for the future begin 
to take shape. We’ve set aggressive 
goals and put the plans in place 
to achieve them — and now we’re seeing real results.
I have to start with what matters 
most — safety. We had zero employee 
or contractor work-related fatalities 
for the first year since 2008. And our employee Total Incident Case r ate 
 
has improved every year since 2006. Again, our people deserve the credit 
— from our senior leaders who keep 
the focus on safety, to the front-line workers in the field, who consistently put safety first.
Modernization milestones
We are nearing the finish line on the 
first phase of the modernization of our 
generation fleet. This major undertaking 
not only provides cleaner energy; it also 
spurs economic growth — creating thousands of construction jobs.Construction of a cleaner-coal 
unit at our Cliffside Steam Station in north Carolina and our edwardsport 
coal-gasification plant in Indiana are nearly complete. When they go into operation later this year, they will provide coal-fired generation that’s among the cleanest in the 
united States.
In north Carolina, the natural 
gas-fired combined-cycle 
 unit 
at buck Steam Station has begun 
operation, and another at Dan r iver 
Steam Station will be operational this year.
Although we’ve had regulatory 
challenges around cost recovery for 
the edwardsport project, we believe 
the costs we’ve incurred have been reasonable, prudent and necessary. A decision by the Indiana u tility 
regulatory Commission on cost 
recovery is not expected before the end of the third quarter of this year.
Our modernization efforts will 
continue, as we upgrade some coal 
units and retire others that are reaching 
the end of their useful lives. And we continue to pursue the option to develop more nuclear energy. As the only technology available today to 
generate carbon-free, reliable electricity 
24/7, nuclear power is vital to our energy future. 
We are also partnering with energy 
companies in China to develop new clean energy technologies. In addition, we continue to monitor the long-term potential for low-cost natural gas from shale formations, in light of 
vast u .S. supplies. 
At the same time, we are 
working to modernize our power 
grid — replacing the analog-based 
equipment that has served us well 
for decades. A digital grid moves power more efficiently, helps reduce outage restoration time and enables our customers to better manage their energy use. It also provides more options for bringing renewable power onto the grid, and 
can better accommodate the use of 
plug-in electric vehicles. 
every type of generation has its 
advantages and disadvantages. b y 
pursuing a diverse generation mix — and bringing the benefits of digital technology to our power grid — we will be well-positioned to deliver affordable, reliable and clean energy 
for years to come.
Responsible rate recovery
All this modernization doesn’t 
come without a cost. We are spending 
$7 billion to bring four new advanced-technology power plants on line. We recover those and other capital investments through customer rates, 
spread over the operating lives of 
the plants.
We have received approval for rate 
increases in n orth Carolina and South 
Carolina — and for a new e lectric 
Security Plan in Ohio that enables customers to take advantage of today’s low market rates. 
As we continue our modernization 
program, customers can expect additional increases. However, our objective is to continue to control costs and keep our rates as low as possible.
To help customers cope with rising 
rates, we continue to expand our energy efficiency programs. In just a few short years, energy efficiency — helping customers curb their energy use and 
costs — has evolved from an industry-
changing initiative to become part of the way we do business. 
Reliable and cleaner generation 
It was a great year for the perfor -
mance of our power plants. Our nuclear 
fleet achieved a 93.0 percent capacity factor 
, topping 90 percent for the 
12th consecutive year. According to the nuclear energy Institute, the average 
capacity factor for u .S. nuclear plants 
in operation in 2011 was 89.0 percent. In addition, based on early reports by euCg, a utility benchmarking group, 
our nuclear fleet had the nation’s lowest 
6 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrT“ By pursuing a diverse generation mix — and bringing 
the benefits of digital technology to our power grid 
— we will be well-positioned to deliver affordable, 
reliable and clean energy for years to come.”total operating cost per kilowatt-hour 
in 2011, and our Catawba n uclear 
Station was the nation’s most cost-
efficient plant.
Our regulated fossil fleet achieved 
87.8 percent commercial availability , 
consistent with past strong performance. 
Our u .S. commercial fleet exceeded its 
operational targets with 88.9 percent availability, and our Midwest gas-fired plants achieved record generation levels. 
We’re also seeing real results in our 
environmental performance. 
The carbon intensity 
 of our 
domestic fleet is improving, based on the latest available data for u .S.-based, 
investor-owned generators. Our carbon intensity ranking moved from 10th highest in 2008 to 12th highest in 2010 — even though we remained 
the fifth largest of those generators. 
Our international operations, consisting mostly of carbon-free hydropower, lower the carbon intensity of our total fleet by about 10 percent.
And, as of year-end 2011, we’ve 
reduced sulfur dioxide emissions by almost 76 percent and nitrogen oxides emissions by 52 percent since 2006 
— thanks to environmental equipment 
we’ve installed at many of our coal-fired generating stations. 
Moving on renewables
We are greatly expanding our 
renewable energy portfolio. We have 
invested more than $2.5 billion in our commercial renewable business over 
the past five years. b y the end of 2012, 
we expect to have more than 1,800 
megawatts of commercial wind and solar power in operation. n early all of 
that capacity is already committed for 
sale under long-term contracts with 
other electricity suppliers. 
Wind and solar farms are often 
located in remote areas. So we’re also 
partnering with other companies to build 
transmission lines that will deliver clean, renewable energy to population centers — and also boost reliability and relieve congestion on the power grid. 
In 2011, we formed a joint venture 
with American Transmission Co. to develop critically needed long-distance transmission projects across n orth 
America. And through a joint venture with American e lectric Power, we 
plan to build and operate 240 miles of high-capacity transmission lines in Indiana.
Water is a valuable source of renew -
able generation that we’ve relied on for 
generations. Duke energy International 
has a new, small hydroelectric plant in operation in b razil; another is under 
construction and slated to begin 
operating by the end of 2012. And in 
2011, we replaced two 1919-vintage hydroelectric turbines at our b ridgewater 
Hydro Station in n orth Carolina.
Support for our communities
Our community support grew 
again in 2011. Charitable giving from The Duke energy Foundation and 
the company, along with employee 
and retiree donations and the value of volunteer hours, totaled more than $31 million in 2011, compared to about $29 million in 2010. 
And our economic development 
teams helped bring commitments of nearly $4 billion in capital investments and 13,635 new jobs to our service 
areas in 2011 — in the midst of a 
“jobless recovery.”
Returns for our shareholders
Financially, our earnings exceeded 
2010 results and our own expecta -
tions. In a continued weak economy, 
we ended 2011 with adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.46. We also 
increased our quarterly dividend by 
about 2 percent. Our total shareholder return 
 of 30.3 percent was better 
than our utility peers’ 19.3 percent, and well above the S&P 500’s 2.1 percent. 
For the second straight year, our 
sustainability efforts earned us a place on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. Duke energy was one of only 
13 utilities selected worldwide. We also ranked on the DJSI n orth America for 
the sixth year in a row. 
This recognition is a tremendous 
accomplishment — and it acknowledges 
our efforts to build a sustainability mindset throughout our business. In this 
report, you will read about our steady 
progress toward meeting our company’s sustainability goals, and how individuals and whole departments are accountable 
for achieving sustainable results.
looking ahead
In the near term, the pending 
merger with Progress energy remains 
top of mind. Meanwhile, we never 
take our eyes off the jobs at hand — safely serving the energy needs of our customers, reducing our environmental 
footprint, building a quality workforce, 
supporting our communities and maintaining value for our shareholders. 
Our commitment is to be nimble 
enough to adapt to change and new 
challenges, as we aspire to be the best 
and most innovative company in our industry. r egardless of what 2012 and 
the years beyond have in store, Duke 
energy remains strong, resilient and 
well-positioned for a sustainable future.
Sincerely,
Jim Rogers 
Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive OfficerApril 5, 2012
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  7“ Our commitment is to be nimble enough to 
adapt to change and new challenges, as we 
aspire to be the best and most innovative 
company in our industry.”Environmental  
Footprint 1Innovative Products  
and Services
Reliable Energy:  Maintain the high 
reliability of our generation system.
2011 Status:
nuclear capacity factor  was 
approximately 93.0 percent versus 
a target of 92.8 percent.
regulated fossil commercial availability 
 was approximately 87.8 percent 
versus a target of 89.2 percent.
nonregulated fossil commercial 
availability and wind energy yield  
combined was approximately 88.9 percent versus a target of 86.2 percent. 
Reliable Energy:  Maintain the high 
reliability of our distribution system.
2011 Status: Though we have 
improved reliability substantially in recent years, we did not meet our aggressive 2011 goals due to large numbers of storms.
Average number of outages* was 1.18 versus a target of 1.07. 
Average outage duration* was 157 minutes versus a target of 138 minutes. 
*  Outages longer than 5 minutes; statistics are 
reported per customer.CORPORATE SUSTAINABI lITY GOA lS
Carbon Emissions:  Reduce or offset the 
carbon dioxide (CO2 ) emissions from our 
U.S. generation fleet 17 percent from 
2005 by 2020 (i.e., go from 105 million tons in 2005 to 87 million tons in 2020). 
2011 Status: Our u .S. generation 
fleet emitted about 91 million tons of 
CO
2 — down from almost 98 million 
tons in 2010. This reduction was due to decreased generation resulting from lower electricity demand, decreased coal generation and increased natural gas generation. Current forecasts indicate higher electricity demand and other factors will cause our emissions to exceed the 2020 goal. n ew nuclear generation 
capacity, if completed in the 2021-2023 time frame as currently forecasted, will help reduce these emissions. 
Carbon Intensity:  Reduce the carbon 
intensity (tons of CO2 emitted per net 
megawatt-hour of electricity produced) of our total generation fleet from 0.63 in 2005 to 0.50 by 2020. 
2011 Status: Total generation fleet 
carbon intensity decreased — from 0.60 in 2010 to 0.58 in 2011 — due to the same factors mentioned above. While our annual carbon intensity levels fluctuate from year to year, we anticipate a continued downward trajectory from the 2005 baseline. However, our most recent forecast indicates that our carbon inten -
sity will slightly exceed the 2020 goal.
waste:  Increase the percentage of solid 
waste that is recycled from 52 percent in 2008 to 62 percent by 2012. (This goal excludes Duke Energy International and Duke Energy Generation Services.)
2011 Status:  We recycled almost 
28,000 tons of materials, or about 
64 percent of the total waste stream. Having already achieved our goal, we plan to further improve our recycling performance in 2012. Provide innovative products and services in a carbon-constrained, competitive world.
WHy it matt Ers: Our customers want products and services that keep them 
competitive, yet respond to environmental concerns.
Energy Efficiency:  Reduce customer 
energy consumption by 2,500 
gigawatt-hours (GWh) and peak demand by 2,100 megawatts (MW) by 2013. 
2011 Status:  
As of year-end 2011, energy 
consumption was reduced by 1,963 g Wh.
As of year-end 2011, peak demand was reduced by 1,409 MW. Current forecasts indicate that this goal will be achieved by 2014, not 2013 as originally anticipated.
Renewables:  Scale up to 3,000 MW 
of wind, solar and biomass by 2020.
2011 Status:  We added 60 MW of 
wind and solar energy in 2011, ending 
the year with 1,070 MW in service. We plan to complete five additional wind farms in 2012. 
Affordable Energy:  Maintain rates 
lower than the national average.
2011 Status:
Duke e nergy’s regulated average 
retail rates in n orth Carolina, 
South Carolina, Indiana and 
kentucky were significantly lower than the u .S. average. 
Due to the economic downturn and drop in wholesale prices, our regulated average retail rate in Ohio, which was set in 2008 through the end of 2011, was above the national average. For information on how we addressed this issue, see “ reaching agreement 
on affordable rates” in the Innovative Products and Services section of this report. CORPORATE SUSTAINABI lITY GOA lSreduce our environmental footprint.
WHy it matt Ers: As an energy 
company, we have a large impact on 
the environment and depend on natural 
resources for our fuel.Duke Energy Sustainability Plan  
and Progress at a Glance
2
8 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTGovernance and 
TransparencyStrong CommunitiesQuality  
Workforce
CORPORATE SUSTAINABI lITY GOA lS
Safety:  
Achieve zero work-related fatalities. 
2011 Status:  There were no contractor 
or employee work-related fatalities in 
2011. We attribute this success to the continued safety focus of employees, contractors and management.
Achieve top-decile safety performance in employee Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) 
 by 2012.
2011 Status:  We improved TIC r to 
0.86, from 0.9 in 2010. e mployee 
TICr has improved 43 percent since 
2006. We are on track to be in the top decile of our industry peers in 2012. 
Employee Engagement:  Maintain 
management and employee engagement at 75 percent and 64 percent, respectively, or higher, as measured by favorable scores on survey questions.
2011 Status:  Management and 
employee engagement were 84.9 
and 73.7 percent, respectively.CORPORATE SUSTAINABI lITY GOA l
Philanthropy:  Continue to track the 
number of lives positively impacted by our support of key community partners. 
2011 Status:  We continued 
to measure the impacts of our 
philanthropy on communities. We evaluated 12 of our largest 2010 grants, totaling just over $3 million. by engaging with our key community 
partners, we learned that those grants had a positive impact on more than 820,000 lives. Some of the grants had an impact in 2011, while others were for projects, such as building construction, that will have impacts in later years (not included in the results).CORPORATE SUSTAINABI lITY GOA l
Shareholder Return:  Outperform 
our peers in total shareholder return (TSR)  
 annually and over a three-
year period, as measured by the Philadelphia Utility Index.
2011 Status:  Our TS r was 
30.3 percent for 2011, exceeding 
our peers as measured by the Philadelphia u tility Index. TS r 
for the index was 19.3 percent in 2011. Duke e nergy has achieved 
a cumulative three-year TS r of 
74.1, while the industry’s TS r was 
38.7 percent. attract, develop and retain a diverse, 
high-quality workforce.
WHy it matt Ers: energy companies will 
be differentiated by the quality, creativity 
and customer focus of their employees.Help build strong communities.
WHy it matt Ers: Our success is 
linked to the health and prosperity of the 
communities we serve.Be profitable and demonstrate strong 
governance and transparency.
WHy it matt Ers: Creating shareholder 
value and earning the trust and 
confidence of our many stakeholders 
keeps us in business.This sustainability plan reflects Duke e nergy’s commitment to operate in a way that is good for people, 
the planet and profits. It expands on the company’s business strategy and values. We will update our 
sustainability plan and goals after the merger with Progress e nergy, which is currently pending.Duke Energy Sustainability Plan  
and Progress at a Glance
PrOGrEss KEy:
 AChIEVED  Or ON TrACk
 Curr ENTly NOT O N Tr ACk
 GOAl NOT  AChIEVED3 45
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  9Helping customers save 
energy and money
It’s one thing for a utility to talk about 
energy efficiency; it’s another to give customers the tools to make a real 
difference in their energy use and costs. 
Duke energy has launched scores of efficiency offerings to our business and residential customers across our 
service areas.
The environment also benefits. 
Helping customers use less energy 
reduces the need for Duke energy to run older, less efficient power plants, 
and can also help delay the need to 
build new plants. (To learn more, visit duke-energy.com/environment.)
Saving energy and money can 
be as easy as changing a light bulb. Since 2010, we have distributed nearly 20 million free or discounted compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFl s) throughout 
our service areas. 
CFls last up to 10 times longer 
than incandescent bulbs and use up to 75 percent less electricity. On average, each CFl saves about $40 in energy 
costs over the expected lifetime of the 
bulb. Half of our low-income customers have participated in our CFl program.
 On our y outility
SM  website 
(duke-energy.com/youtility), residential customers join Duke energy employees 
in conversations about their personal 
paths to energy efficiency. Customers can also learn about their energy usage, find low- to no-cost energy-saving tips, 
and explore products and services to 
help tame their energy bills. Since Duke energy launched y outility in July 2011, 
it’s had more than 245,000 page views. 
Duke energy also encourages 
businesses and institutional customers to save energy, through programs such as:
 XSmart $aver®, which offers financial 
incentives for implementing energy efficiency measures
 XPowerShare®, a demand-response 
program that rewards business customers for adjusting their 
energy consumption during peak 
time periods
 XSmartbuilding Advantage®, which 
provides customers with on-site assessments and customized incentive programs to maximize energy efficiency in their facilities. 
every year since 1993, Duke energy 
has selected a group of large-business 
customers as Power Partners. They are recognized for implementing innovative 
and money-saving energy solutions — 
with proven results. 
To learn how our 2011 Power 
Partners have saved energy and money, read the rest of this article 
in the Innovative Products and 
Services section of our online Sustainability Report. 
Power grid modernization 
under way
Duke energy is well-positioned to bring 
the benefits of digital technology to our customers — as we modernize our 
electric power grid to improve system 
performance, efficiency and reliability.
upgrading our power delivery 
network from analog to digital 
technology provides the capability for 
near-real-time communication across the system — even letting the system “talk to itself” through distribution automation. 
‘Self-healing’ capability
One important benefit of distribution 
automation is “self-healing” capability. 
Digital devices we’re installing on 
our lines and poles work together as a “team” to reduce and even prevent outages. 
Without these technologies in place, 
when a tree or other object comes in contact with a power line, every customer served by that line — and other lines connected to it — loses 
power. With self-healing technology, 
computers automatically detect the problem, isolate it and reroute power — so fewer customers are left in the dark. 
Most of the self-healing equipment 
we’ve installed to date has been in Ohio, where we’re implementing grid modernization on a large scale. The installation of 17 self-healing 
teams in Ohio has helped avoid over 
1.1 million outage minutes for more than 20,000 customers. A total of nine self-healing teams have been Innovative Products and Services
Challenges
 XKeep rates below the national average as we continue to invest in modernizing our 
system
 XGrow our renewable energy 
portfolio, despite rising competition from lower 
natural gas prices 
Opportunities
 XHelp customers save power 
and money through energy efficiency offerings that also 
benefit the environment
 XContinue to be a leader in 
building a digital grid network
 XPrepare for widespread customer adoption of plug-in electric vehicles
2011 and Early 2012 
Highlights
 XObtained regulatory approval of 
rate increases in the Carolinas that balance our customers’ 
economic challenges with 
our need to recover our investments
 XObtained regulatory approval of a new Electric Security Plan in Ohio that enables customers 
to take advantage of today’s 
low market rates and gives our company greater clarity and operational flexibility
 XDeployed energy efficiency programs to help customers lower their energy bills
 XContinued digital grid pilots in the Carolinas and deployments in Ohio 
 XAnnounced five wind projects, which will increase the amount of wind power we operate 
to nearly 1,800 megawatts 
by year-end 2012 1
10 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTInnovative Products and Services
I’m accountable for the plug-in electric vehicle (PEV) readiness 
program at Duke Energy. My organization oversees efforts to prepare 
for widespread customer adoption of electric vehicles. These efforts 
include pilot programs with our customers, as well as internal studies 
to determine potential impacts on the power grid.
Through our pilot programs, the company is learning about the technical 
aspects of PEV charging stations, and what we can expect from the 
charging behaviors of customers. As part of our Carolinas-based pilot, 
Charge|Carolinas, we are installing 150 “intelligent” charging stations in 
customers’ homes at little or no cost to them. These stations will enable 
us to wirelessly access a wealth of charging data, including power usage, 
the time of day customers charge their vehicles and charging frequency. 
Our Project Plug-IN pilot in Indiana includes the installation of charging 
stations in both residential and commercial locations – a total of 125 
are planned. 
With these two pilots, we believe we will own the largest number of 
charging stations of any North American electric utility. From the 
knowledge we gain, Duke Energy can better meet our customers’ 
needs and expectations. Ideally, PEVs are charged overnight, when demand for electricity is low. If we can provide the right programs to encourage customers 
to charge during off-peak hours, we’ll be better able to manage this 
new load using our existing power plants. As our CEO Jim r ogers likes 
to say, “The cleanest, most cost-effective power plant is the one we don’t have to build.”
The environment will also benefit as PEVs are more widely adopted, 
due to decreased emissions. Even in regions where most electricity is 
produced by coal, PEVs reduce greenhouse gases by 25 to 30 percent 
over conventional vehicles (source: GoElectricDrive.com). And considering 
today’s high gasoline prices, our customers will save at the gas pump and 
help reduce u .S. dependence on foreign oil.
As PEVs become a practical transportation option, I’m committed 
to making sure they will be plugging into a power grid that remains 
affordable, reliable and safe.
To learn more about the benefits of PEVs, visit duke-energy.com/plugin.I’m Accountable Jessica Bishop
Director, Electric Vehicle Program Development
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  11installed in Indiana, k entucky and 
north Carolina, with more planned 
over the coming years.
Digital meters
Another way customers benefit 
from grid modernization is through 
meter replacement. b y year-end 2011, 
we had installed more than 325,000 
digital electric meters, more than 228,000 digital gas meters and about 71,000 communication nodes in Ohio. 
The nodes serve as the “nerve center” 
of the digital grid by collecting and transmitting data systemwide. 
Many of our meters in Ohio are 
located inside customers’ homes, making them difficult to read manually. With digital meters, we get the readings remotely. That has reduced the number of estimated bills we send to our Ohio 
customers by more than a third. 
In addition, customers receive more 
information about their daily energy 
usage, enabling them to make wiser 
energy decisions and gain more control 
over their energy use and costs.
We’ve also installed nearly 14,500 
digital meters in Charlotte, n .C., in an 
area where we are piloting a residential energy management program. We have another 2,350 digital meters in greenville County, S.C., as part of 
a technology pilot conducted to test various manufacturers’ products for full-scale deployment.
Ten years ago, in n orth Carolina 
and South Carolina, we installed meters that enable drive-by reading — which improves billing accuracy and reduces operational costs. We are now evaluating technology that can provide 
those customers with information on 
their daily energy usage as well. 
Duke energy’s long-term plan for all 
of our service areas is to continue to 
upgrade the power grid, with regulatory 
approval, in order to provide the most reliable and efficient service possible to our customers. 
Envision Charlotte expands 
scope and participation
envision Charlotte  — a public/private 
collaboration between Duke energy, 
Cisco, Verizon Wireless and others — 
was announced at the 2010 Clinton 
global Initiative , along with an 
aggressive goal: r educe energy usage 
in Charlotte’s uptown business district 
by 20 percent by 2016. That’s about 
the same amount of energy it would take to power 40,000 homes per year.
Since the announcement, the scope 
of envision Charlotte has grown. It’s now a nonprofit, 501(c)(3) organization with a comprehensive strategy for environmental sustainability that goes beyond energy to include air, water 
and waste. More than 50 volunteers 
from 28 businesses, nonprofits and government groups constitute envision Charlotte’s board and five 
subcommittees.
Powered by Smart Energy Now
®
Duke energy’s Smart energy 
now®  pilot program is the backbone 
of envision Charlotte’s energy reduction 
goal. Smart energy n ow pulls from 
behavioral science research to educate uptown’s 82,000 workers on how to reduce energy consumption through small changes in their daily routines.
Interactive kiosks were recently 
placed in the lobbies of more than 60 participating office buildings. 
each kiosk displays live energy data 
that’s streamed from newly installed 
digital meters. The kiosks also display tools, tips and facts about energy use in terms that are easy to understand.
We’ve signed up nearly 98 percent 
of eligible uptown office space — about 21.5 million square feet — surpassing our initial participation goal of 
80 percent. 
Others are noticing our efforts. In 
early 2012, Power grid International 
magazine named Smart energy n ow 
as the best energy efficiency and demand response project in the nation.
Energy Champions
behavioral science suggests that 
once people are armed with information, 
they can take action and create a tipping point for change. That’s why Smart energy n ow recruited members of 
Duke energy’s Sustainability Corps 
 
to be energy Champions — individuals who lead by example when it comes 
to changing their habits and reducing 
energy use. 
now we’re deploying the energy 
Champions initiative throughout 
uptown Charlotte. We provide 
training sessions to show future energy Champions how to identify and eliminate wasted energy in their workplaces.
Model for the future
We believe that the Smart energy 
now pilot can be a model for energy 
efficiency programs around the world. 
One day, it could even become a new line of business that complements other products and services in our energy efficiency portfolio. 
In the meantime, we continue to 
fine-tune the program and find new ways to engage uptown Charlotte’s workforce. We believe that this program 
is the beginning of a dialogue that will 
help bridge the gap between environ -
mental sustainability and economic development.
Keep current on Smart Energy Now 
by visiting SmartEnergyCharlotte.com or by following us on Twitter: @DE_SmartEnergy.
Interactive Smart Energy Now kiosks help 
workers in uptown Charlotte better understand and manage their energy use.
12 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTRecord growth in 
renewable power
Duke energy moved forward with a 
record number of new wind and solar projects in 2011, taking advantage 
of falling equipment costs and 
favorable public policy to increase our renewable portfolio.
wind power to grow significantly
2011 proved to be a historic year for 
Duke energy’s commercial wind power 
business. Duke energy r enewables, 
one of the company’s commercial 
businesses, announced plans to build 
five large-scale wind farms in 2012 — two in k ansas, two in Texas and one 
in Pennsylvania. 
These new installations, totaling 
770 megawatts (MW), will increase the company’s wind generation in opera -
tion to nearly 1,800 MW — in just one year. The projects will help Duke 
energy r enewables customers (typically 
regional utilities, municipalities and 
electric cooperatives) meet their renew -
able energy requirements and goals.
Since 2007, Duke energy has 
committed more than $2.5 billion to grow its wind power business. by 2013, our 15 commercial wind 
farms will produce enough electricity to 
power more than a half-million homes. 
Solar investments ramp up
Duke energy r enewables also added 
new solar farms to its portfolio in 2011. 
We expanded into the western u .S. with 
the addition of the 15-MW b agdad Solar 
Project and 4-MW Ajo Solar Project, both in Arizona. The b agdad site is 
now our largest commercial solar farm by capacity, slightly edging our 14-MW blue Wing facility in San Antonio, Texas.
In 2011, we brought one 5-MW 
and four 1-MW solar farms on line in north Carolina — outside our 
regulated utility’s service footprint. And our 5-MW Stanton Solar Project in Orlando, Fla., achieved commercial 
operation in December.
In addition, a partnership announced 
in late 2010 between Duke energy 
renewables, Integrys energy and 
Smart energy Capital resulted in 16 new solar power installations over the last year. The partners completed ground-
mounted photovoltaic (PV) 
 systems 
for school districts in Pennsylvania 
and n ew Jersey, as well as rooftop 
PV systems for a health care provider in California.
In 2011, our regulated utility in 
the Carolinas completed a $50 million 
program to install 8 MW of solar 
energy capacity on the rooftops and grounds of select n .C. schools, 
commercial buildings and factories. We pay participating customers rental 
payments for hosting our solar panels. 
The electricity produced — enough to power roughly 1,300 homes — is fed into the power grid that serves all 
our customers in the service area. The 
Solar e lectric Power Association ranked 
Duke energy Carolinas among its top 10 u .S. solar power providers.
The momentum continues in 2012. 
In January, Duke energy Carolinas announced a 20-year agreement to purchase all of the output from the 5-MW k ings Mountain Solar facility, 
located approximately 30 miles west of Charlotte, n .C. The solar farm, 
which was developed by Strata Solar, is among the largest in the state.
Duke energy Carolinas expects 
to further boost its supply of solar power in the coming years, thanks to lower equipment costs and more cost-competitive proposals from project 
developers. We are relying on solar 
energy, electricity from landfill gas and biopower to help meet n orth Carolina’s 
renewable energy mandate.
Electricity goes hog wild
Hog farmer l oyd b ryant used to 
manage the manure his 8,640 hogs generated each week by pumping 
it into an open-air lagoon. Then he 
would spray the effluent onto fields of grass and millet to absorb the highly concentrated nutrients — standard 
procedure for hog farms.
Today, the lagoon that once 
produced a stench of methane and 
ammonia gases is becoming a clean-water pond — thanks to an innovative 
waste-processing system. 
And that’s not all. Methane, a potent 
greenhouse gas 
 captured from the hog manure, is fueling a small power 
plant that makes enough energy to run 
the waste-processing system and much 
of bryant’s 154-acre farm.
Duke energy partnered with Duke 
university and g oogle to build and test 
the $1.2 million prototype at l oyd r ay 
Farms in y adkinville, n .C. 
Duke energy will use the resulting 
renewable energy certificates to help meet state requirements for electricity 
generation from hog waste. Duke 
university also earns credits to offset its 
carbon emissions, and will sell g oogle, 
owner of a data center in nearby l enoir, 
a portion of its carbon offsets. Proceeds 
from the offsets sale will fund further 
research. b ryant, in turn, saves money 
on electricity and enjoys a cleaner farm.
This project is attracting national 
attention at a time when a growing number of livestock operations are implementing waste-to-energy systems. The prototype is positioned to become the standard for a cleaner waste-to-
energy model — bringing farmers, 
utilities and corporations together in a way that benefits both their stakeholders and the environment.
working with China on 
clean energy
Duke energy continues to work closely with some of China’s leading energy companies to develop clean energy 
technologies. In 2011, the company 
broadened its relationships to include some of China’s top banks, as well.
below are highlights of some of 
Duke energy’s latest China initiatives.
Carbon capture and nuclear operations
In February 2012, Duke energy 
and Huaneng g roup, China’s largest 
electric utility, signed a new three-
year agreement expanding their research cooperation in the areas of advanced-coal and carbon capture and 
sequestration 
 technologies.Duke Energy r enewables’ h appy Jack wind farm 
in southeast Wyoming can generate enough 
electricity to power about 12,000 homes.
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  13The two companies agreed in 2009 
to pursue high-level discussions and 
information sharing on a number of 
renewable and clean energy fronts. 
That same year, Huaneng group developed a facility to capture carbon dioxide from a large coal-fired power 
plant in China. 
The new agreement calls for an 
engineering study to determine if the 
same low-cost carbon capture process could be used at Duke energy’s gibson 
Station in Indiana. The project is 
sponsored by the u.S.-China Clean energy research Center (CerC), established in 2009 for joint research 
and development on clean energy 
technology. The CerC has a five-year, $100-million budget: $25 million from u.S. members (including Duke energy), $25 million from the u.S. government 
and $50 million from China’s 
government.
In 2011, Duke energy’s Catawba 
and Oconee nuclear power stations in 
South Carolina hosted 14 nuclear plant 
operators from Huaneng group for two, month-long information-sharing sessions on nuclear safety and reliability. Another is scheduled for this year. 
Major credit agreement
Three of China’s major banks will 
collectively provide $676 million of a 
$6 billion, five-year credit facility for 
Duke energy. It’s part of an agreement signed in 2011 between the company and 30 financial institutions worldwide. The company has immediate access to 
$4 billion under the credit agreement, 
and $2 billion becomes available upon the successful closing of our pending merger with Progress energy.
A valuable source of funding diversity 
and liquidity, the new credit facility adds financial strength and flexibility to the company’s balance sheet. It replaces a previous $3.14 billion credit facility that 
was set to expire in June 2012. The Chinese banks’ portion 
represents the highest participation level ever by Chinese financial institutions in 
a u.S. electric utility’s credit facility.
EcoPartnership
Duke energy and Chinese energy 
giant enn group have joined forces to 
form an “ecoPartnership” between the cities of Charlotte, n.C., and langfang, China, 40 miles southeast of beijing. 
The partnership focuses on solar power, 
smart grid technology, energy efficiency and battery storage of electricity in both cities. The umbrella ecoPartnership 
program — administered by the 
u.S. Department of State and China’s national Development and reform Commission — encourages collaborative public/private initiatives designed to 
stimulate innovative and sustainable 
economic development.
Read the rest of this article in the 
Innovative Products and Services section 
of our online Sustainability Report. 
Reaching agreement on 
affordable rates
electricity is the lifeblood of thriving 
communities, a vibrant job market and a secure economy. Duke energy works 
to keep electricity costs affordable for its 
customers, and our rates are among the lowest in our industry. 
However, new environmental 
regulations are requiring utilities to make major modifications to our power plants. (See “New and Pending Environmental Regulations” table in the Environmental Footprint section of this report.) In 
addition, it’s time to retire some of 
our older power plants and replace them with new, cleaner-technology generation. The resulting costs are driving up electricity prices across the country, during a period of continuing economic uncertainty. 
Our challenge is balancing our 
customers’ need for reliable, affordable and clean electricity, while meeting the expectations of our shareholders. We met 
that challenge during 2011 through rate 
agreements in Ohio and the Carolinas.
Ohio
Ohio regulators approved Duke 
energy Ohio’s new electric Security 
Plan (eSP) for customers. The plan began Jan. 1, 2012, and runs through May 2015. Our customers told us they 
wanted both choice and predictability, 
and we believe this plan provides it. Here’s how it works:
In Ohio, Duke energy’s only 
nonregulated service territory, genera-
tion supply is purchased on the open 
market. under the new eSP, competitive auctions provide customers with access to today’s low market prices. Due to 
the currently low price of natural gas, 
residential customers who continue to receive their electric generation from Duke energy Ohio are seeing an approximate 17 percent decrease in 
their total bill, compared to rates under 
the prior eSP. Also, as part of the new eSP, Duke energy Ohio will transfer its generating assets to a nonregulated 
affiliate no later than year-end 2014, 
further supporting competition.
Carolinas
In the Carolinas, the company has 
invested billions to replace aging power 
plants with cleaner electric generation 
 wEB ExClUSIVE CONTENT
 XBreaking ground on renewable 
energy storage
 XGetting renewable power to where it’s needed
 XSolar field test — breaking through the clouds 
 XPaperless billing — in tune with customers and the environment 
 XCustomer satisfaction results  XVideo: Growing Solar at Maple View Farms
 XVideo: Self-healing Network
 XVideo: Digital Meters Give you the Power
 XVideo: Paper Madness
Clean, Affordable, 
renewable Wind Energy
VIDEOMartins Creek Elementary School in Murphy, N.C., shares in the 
revenues from this solar farm, owned by Duke Energy renewables and located on the school’s grounds.
14 Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrTtechnologies, to meet increasingly 
stringent regulatory requirements and to upgrade our power delivery system. 
Primarily to recover the cost of 
modernizing our generation fleet, our rates increased in the Carolinas beginning in February 2012. A typical 
residential customer who uses 1,000 
kilowatt-hours of electricity monthly in north Carolina or South Carolina now 
pays approximately $7 or $6 more each month, respectively, than before the 
rate increases. However, Duke energy’s 
new rates in the Carolinas remain competitive in the region — and well below the national average.
Our commitment
While the approved rate changes are 
different for each state, what doesn’t 
vary is Duke energy’s commitment to 
give back to the communities we serve. 
All of the rate agreements include provi -
sions to help attract industries and jobs to Duke energy service areas. They also 
support weatherization programs and 
assistance for lower-income customers.
We are confident that these changes 
strike the right balance between today’s challenging economic times and the 
need to recover investments we’re 
making in an electric system that will serve our customers well in the future.
Duke Energy’s Regulated 
Average Retail Rates
12 months ending June 30, 2011
(cents per kilowatt-hour)
Source: Edison Electric Institute Typical Bills and Average r ates 
report, Summer 2011 (latest available). r ate changes that 
went into effect in early 2012 in Ohio and the Carolinas are not 
reflected in the chart above. 14.00
 12.00 10.00 8.00 6.00 4.00 2.00 0 south  North Kentucky indiana Ohio 
  Carolina CarolinaU.S. Average 10.11
6.717.407.76 7.8112.60RElIABlE POwER — Alw AYS A PRIORITY
reliability is an ongoing priority at Duke energy — and a fundamental part of 
our mission. We set aggressive reliability targets each year for both the number 
and duration of outages. 
Our reliability efforts are up against a formidable and often unpredictable 
foe — the weather — and 2011 presented one of the most challenging years in recent history. In the aftermath of major storms in our Indiana and Carolinas service areas, our customers experienced nearly 400,000 outages. 
The Carolinas recorded the highest number of significant weather events 
since 1996. In Ohio and k entucky, the number of lightning strikes (a good 
indicator of strong wind, a major hazard to power lines) hit an all-time high. 
Although Duke energy missed the target we set for the number of outages 
in 2011, we were able to hold the number nearly flat with 2010, despite the 
extreme weather. The weather had a greater impact on our outage duration 
figures, but our long-term trend is steadily improving.
OUTAGE  STATISTICS
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 20112011  
target
average number of outages 1 
(occurrences)1.30 1.13 1.19 1.04 1.11 1.18 1.07
average time without power 1 
(minutes)164 133 153 130 144 157 138
1 Outages longer than 5 minutes; statistics are reported per customer.
reliable power also depends on a strong fleet of power plants. Duke 
energy’s generating fleet recorded another year of great performance, particularly during periods of peak demand. In 2011, our nuclear fleet recorded 
a capacity factor 
 of approximately 93.0 percent, the 12th consecutive year 
above 90 percent. This exceeded the 89.0 percent average capacity factor for 
u.S. nuclear plants in operation in 2011 (source: n uclear energy Institute). 
Though our regulated fossil fleet missed its aggressive target of 
89.2 percent, it still contributed a respectable 87.8 percent commercial availability 
. Finally, our nonregulated Midwest generation and wind fleets 
achieved an impressive combined 88.9 percent commercial availability and wind energy yield 
 performance.
GENERATION  RElIABI lITY
2007 2008 2009 2010 20112011  
target
Nuclear capacity factor 92.4% 91.5% 93.3% 95.9% 93.0% 92.8%
regulated fossil commercial availability 287.0% 85.3% 89.6% 88.7% 87.8% 89.2%
Nonregulated fossil commercial 
availability and wind energy yield 2 81.0% 84.0% 83.1% 89.7% 88.9% 386.2%
2 Based on units operated by Duke Energy, and on ownership share.
3 First year wind energy yield reported along with fossil commercial availability.
Whether we’re finding new ways to anticipate outages and restore service, 
or to generate power more efficiently and sustainably, Duke energy’s goal is 
always the same — to make sure that when our customers flip the switch, 
the power is there.
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  15Environmental Footprint
Committed to carbon reduction
For many years, Duke energy has 
advocated for passage of u .S. federal 
legislation to reduce greenhouse gas  
emissions. We continue to believe Congress should act to establish a 
market-based approach to greenhouse 
gas emission reductions. However, Congress took no action on this important issue in 2011, nor is it 
likely to do so in 2012.
Filling this policy void to some extent, 
in March 2012 the u .S. environmental 
Protection Agency ( ePA) proposed a rule 
to limit the carbon dioxide emission rate from certain types of new fossil-fueled 
power plants not yet under construction. The e PA is expected to issue a similar 
rule for existing power plants at some 
point. These rules will certainly face 
scrutiny from Congress and legal challenges in the federal courts.
Meanwhile, President Obama, in 
his January 2012 State of the u nion 
address, again urged Congress to pass a Clean energy Standard that calls for the generation of up to 80 percent of the nation’s electricity from an array of 
low-carbon sources — including solar, 
wind, nuclear and natural gas — by 2035. It is unlikely, however, that a deeply divided Congress will pass 
such a standard during a contentious 
presidential election year.
Despite Washington’s lack of 
action, in early 2012 the u .S. energy 
Information Administration predicted 
u.S. carbon dioxide emissions will be 
7 percent below their 2005 level by 
2020, and will remain below the 2005 level into 2035. The reasons include:
 Xreduced energy use due to a 
sluggish economy
 XStringent federal air quality regulations and the availability of low-cost natural gas, leading to the 
replacement of coal-burning power 
plants with lower-carbon-emitting natural gas plants
 XState renewable energy mandates that will bring more wind and solar generation onto the power gridChallenges
 XKeep rates competitive while making investments to reduce our impact on the environment
 XMonitor, influence and prepare for new and pending regulations that could impact our generation 
fleet
 XResolve regulatory challenges 
around cost recovery for Edwardsport, a first-of-its-
scale integrated gasification 
combined-cycle coal plant
Opportunities
 XReduce our carbon intensity by retiring and replacing older plants with new, 
cleaner generation 
 XAdvocate for U.S. energy 
policy that benefits both the environment and the economy 
 XPartner to effectively manage limited water supplies in some regions
 XContinue to participate fully in industry efforts to apply lessons learned from the Fukushima 
event in Japan
2011 and Early 2012 
Highlights
 XReduced sulfur dioxide 
emissions by almost 76 percent and nitrogen oxides emissions by 
52 percent since 2006
 XReduced emissions from 
our vehicle fleet by almost 31 percent since 2006
 XReduced 2009-2011 average electricity consumption at 13 of our largest commercial buildings 
by 13 percent, compared to the 
2005-2007 baseline average
 XRecycled almost 28,000 tons of materials, or about 64 percent of our U.S. solid waste stream2
16 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrT XTougher vehicle fuel-economy 
standards that will reduce gasoline consumption.
Some experts question whether a drop 
in carbon emissions can be sustained 
on a long-term basis, especially if the 
u.S. economy experiences significant 
growth in the years ahead. An economic 
reversal would result in increased electricity use by homes, commercial businesses and industrial plants.
Against this backdrop, Duke 
energy is continuing to modernize and decarbonize 
 its fleet of power 
plants — regardless of what happens, or doesn’t happen, in Washington, D.C. 
We are also helping our customers 
lower their energy usage through our efficiency programs. 
Thanks to these efforts, we are 
seeing results. The carbon intensity 
 
of our domestic fleet is improving, based on the latest available data for 
u.S.-based, investor-owned genera -
tors. Our carbon intensity ranking 
moved from 10th highest in 2008 to 12th highest in 2010 — even though 
we remained the fifth largest of those 
generators. Our international operations, consisting mostly of carbon-free hydro -
power, lower the carbon intensity of our total fleet by about 10 percent.
Read about Duke Energy’s fleet 
modernization program in this section. And read about Duke Energy’s growing renewable power portfolio and our 
energy efficiency and digital grid 
programs in the Innovative Products and Services section. 
Positioning our coal 
fleet for more stringent 
environmental regulations
new regulations recently finalized 
or under development by the u .S. 
environmental Protection Agency ( ePA) 
present what we call “stroke of pen” 
risks. These rules will require us and others in our industry to install new environmental control equipment and 
potentially retire some older coal-fired 
generating units. At this point, the magnitude, timing 
and compliance costs associated with the new rules are uncertain and will 
depend on the final requirements 
of each rule. However, we currently estimate that the cost of new environmental control equipment to 
comply with these rules could total 
approximately $4.5 to $5 billion over the next 10 years. (See “New and Pending Environmental Regulations” table in this section.)
Over the last 10 years, Duke 
energy has invested about $5 billion to reduce air emissions from many of our coal-fired power plants. As a 
result, we have reduced sulfur dioxide 
emissions by almost 76 percent and nitrogen oxides emissions by 52 percent since 2006. Those investments and the new state-of-the-art power plants 
we are building have positioned us 
well for complying with environmental rules to come. 
For some of Duke energy’s 
coal-fired power plants, the costly upgrades needed to comply with new Environmental Footprint
Following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami that impacted the 
Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant in Japan, Duke Energy and the 
nuclear industry took immediate action to re-verify that every station 
is in a high state of readiness to respond to emergency events. In this 
Q&A, Dhiaa Jamil shares some of those actions, and how Duke Energy 
and the nuclear industry will continue to incorporate lessons learned 
from Fukushima.
What actions has Duke Energy taken in response to the events 
in Fukushima?  Following the events in March 2011, we created a 
Fukushima team to monitor the event, integrate lessons learned, and coordinate our responses to related oversight activities on the part of the 
Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) and the Nuclear r egulatory 
Commission (N rC). Internal, regulatory and industry assessments and 
guidance identified enhancements to further augment safety at each 
of our nuclear power plants. Items identified were either immediately 
implemented or entered into our corrective action program for resolution. 
I would also like to acknowledge the personal contributions made by 
many of our employees in the weeks following the events in Japan. 
Many Duke Energy employees donated to the American Nuclear 
Society’s Japan r elief Fund, which was set up to help nuclear power 
plant employees and their families who had been affected by the earthquake and tsunami.How is Duke Energy working within the industry in the aftermath 
of Fukushima?  The nuclear industry has a long history of collaboration 
and teamwork, and Duke Energy is no exception to the rule. Duke Energy is working through INPO, the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) and the 
Electric Power r esearch Institute (EP rI) to put standards and practices 
in place to address the lessons learned from Fukushima, as well as other operating experience. 
Duke Energy personnel are participating in NEI task forces that are 
collaborating with the N rC on requirements arising from Fukushima. 
In addition, INPO is addressing the operations and training aspects of the event, and EP rI is carrying out research and analyses of the 
accident. Our participation with these organizations was in place before Fukushima, and is part of the nuclear industry’s focus on sharing 
operating experience and best practices. 
To read Dhiaa Jamil’s view on what lies ahead for the nuclear industry, 
please see the continuation of his Q&A in the Environmental Footprint 
section of our Sustainability Report online.
 I’m Accountable Dhiaa JamilGroup Executive, Chief Generation Officer and Chief Nuclear Officer
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  17environmental regulations make retire -
ment the economic option. Our current 
planning assumption is to potentially retire 
2,773 megawatts (MW) of older coal-
fired generation from the Duke energy system by 2015. That’s in addition to retirements of 1,027 MW that have 
already occurred in 2011 and early 2012.
We will rely on our Integrated 
resource Planning process 
 
to determine the best options for 
replacing retired generation capacity.
Reducing our reliance on 
mountaintop coal
Mountaintop-removal coal mining — 
surface mining that’s accomplished by removing the tops of mountains where the seams of coal are too thin to mine 
any other way — remains controversial.
In the Carolinas, we buy the 
majority of our plants’ coal from 
Central Appalachia, where an estimated 
25 percent of the coal comes from 
mountaintop mines. Our plants in the Carolinas were designed to burn Central Appalachian coal, so switching to fuel from a different coal basin 
is difficult and requires extensive 
tolerance-level testing. 
During 2011, Duke energy tested 
non-Central Appalachian coal in various 
quantities and blends at several of our 
plants in the Carolinas. Test results are still being reviewed, but current plans are to burn blends of non-Central Appalachian coals starting in 2012. In addition, we continue our practice 
of purchasing Central Appalachian coal that does not come from mountaintop mines, when we can do so without paying a premium. 
Duke energy expects to reduce its 
dependency on Central Appalachian coal going forward, as economics and plant reliability warrant. State utility regulations require us to keep overall costs as low as 
possible for our customers.
New generation nearing 
the finish line
To provide cleaner, more efficient 
electricity to our millions of customers, Duke energy is proactively modernizing 
our generating facilities. r etrofits NEw AND  PENDING  ENVIRONMENTA l REGU lATIONS
rule name Purpose status Potential impacts
Coal Combustion 
residuals (CC r)To address the disposal or beneficial use of coal ash, synthetic gypsum and other coal combustion residuals  XEPA proposed a rule in June 2010 and intends to finalize it by the end of 2012
 XEPA is considering both a hazardous and a nonhazardous rule XClose or upgrade wet ash ponds
 Xupgrade from wet to dry ash handling
 XInstall new wastewater treatment
mercury and a ir toxics 
standards (mats )To limit emissions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from coal- and oil-fired power plants across the u .S. XEPA published a final rule in February 2012  XInstall additional air emissions control equipment
 XAccelerate the timing of unit retirements 
Cross-s tate a ir 
Pollution r ule (C saPr)To reduce interstate transport of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions from coal-fired power plants, lessening the impact of these emissions on ozone and fine particle nonattainment in downwind states  XThe final CSAP r was scheduled to 
take effect Jan. 1, 2012, until the rule was stayed by a federal court on Dec. 30, 2011
 XThe Clean Air Interstate r ule 
remains in effect until CSAP r legal 
challenges are resolved XAccelerate the timing of unit retirements
 XOperating challenges for some units
316(b) Cooling Water intake s tructures r ule To protect fish and other aquatic organisms from impacts of intake structures and passing through cooling systems at nuclear, coal and natural gas power plants XEPA proposed a rule in April 2011
 XFinal rule expected in July 2012 XModify existing cooling water intake structures
 XInstall cooling towers
 XAccelerate the timing of unit retirements 
steam Electric 
Effluent Guidelines To reduce discharge of pollutants to waters of the u .S., through 
water permits XProposed rule expected in November 2012
 XFinal rule expected in April 2014 Xretrofit wastewater treatment 
facilities
 XChange the management of coal combustion residuals
18 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTand replacement of several of 
our aging, high-emitting units are nearing completion. 
Cleaner-coal construction update
After four-plus years of construction 
and more than $2 billion spent at the 
Cliffside Steam Station in southwest 
north Carolina, the new clean-coal 
unit 6 is expected to begin commercial operation in September. It will be one of the cleanest coal-burning units in the 
u.S., generating 825 megawatts (MW) 
— enough to power 660,000 homes at 
any one time. 
Four older Cliffside units were 
retired last year, and unit 5 has been retrofitted with a sulfur dioxide emissions “scrubber.” 
 The modernized two-unit facility will generate more than twice the electricity than the five units did previously, while 
emitting 80 percent less sulfur dioxide, 
50 percent less nitrogen oxides and 50 percent less mercury. 
The 618-MW integrated gasification 
combined-cycle (I gCC) 
 edwardsport 
project in Indiana is also nearing completion, with extensive start-up 
and testing procedures well under way. 
like Cliffside, edwardsport is key to 
modernizing the company’s power fleet.
The new facility, which will convert 
coal into a synthetic gas and strip out most pollutants, will make edwardsport one of the cleanest coal-fired power plants in the world. It will produce 10 times as much power as the plant it replaces, while emitting less sulfur 
dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury. 
We pursued this technology partly because it allows us to continue using Indiana coal, a plentiful local resource, to produce energy.
The edwardsport project has had 
its challenges. A plant using this technology has never been built on this scale before, and the project’s scope 
and complexity drove costs up to an 
estimated $2.98 billion, plus financing costs. While that’s more than we originally anticipated, we have proposed significant steps to mitigate the impact 
on customers’ rates, including capping 
cost recovery at $2.72 billion, plus applicable financing costs. 
Indiana u tility r egulatory 
Commission hearings on the project occurred in 2011 and early 2012. The commission’s decision on how much of the project’s costs can be charged to customers is not expected 
before the end of the third quarter 
of this year. Meanwhile, the plant is due to begin commercial operation by the fall of 2012.
Natural gas update
As part of the company’s fleet 
modernization, Duke energy is 
adding two 620-MW natural gas-fired 
combined-cycle 
 generating units in 
north Carolina — one at buck Steam 
Station and one at Dan r iver Steam 
Station. b oth projects will use state-of-
the-art environmental control technology 
to minimize plant emissions.
The buck combustion turbine 
combined-cycle (CTCC) plant in r owan 
County, n .C., began commercial UNITS AlREADY  RETIRED
Location Unitstotal 
capacity 
(megawatts)actual 
retirement date
Cliffside s team s tation N.C. 1, 2, 3 and 4 198 2011
Buck s team s tation N.C. 3 and 4 113 2011
Edwardsport Generating s tation Ind. 6, 7 and 8 160 2011
Gallagher Generating s tation Ind. 1 and 3 1280 February 2012
Dan r iver s team s tation N.C. 1, 2 and 3 276 April 2012
total 1,027
1 Per 2009 settlement agreement with the EPA.
POTENTIA l RETIREMENTS
Location Unitstotal 
capacity 
(megawatts)Potential 
retirement date
W.s. Lee s team s tation S.C. 1, 2 and 3 370Potential to convert 
to natural gas or 
retire by 2015
Buck s team s tation N.C. 5 and 6 256 2015
miami Fort Generating s tation Ohio 6 163 2015
riverbend s team s tation N.C. 4, 5, 6 and 7 454 2015
W.C. Beckjord s tation Ohio1, 2, 3, 4, 5 
and 6862 2015
Wabash r iver Generating s tation Ind.2, 3, 4, 5 
and 6668 2015
total 2,773
TOTA l ACTUA l/POTENTIA l RETIREMENTS 3,800COAl PlANT RETIREMENTS
A new natural gas-fired plant is now operating at 
the site of Buck Steam Station, where two older coal-fired units have been retired.
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  19operation in n ovember 2011, ahead of 
schedule and under budget. The Dan 
river CTCC plant in eden, n .C. is also 
on time and on budget. Construction is about 70 percent complete and on schedule to begin commercial operation in late 2012.
Hydropower update
Hydroelectricity continues to play 
an important role in Duke energy’s 
diverse energy mix by providing clean, 
renewable power to our customers. 
In november 2011, three new 
units at the b ridgewater Hydro Station 
on lake James in Morganton, n .C., 
became operable and available for 
service. The new 31.5-MW power -
house increases the station’s capacity by 8.5 MW. Oct. 17, 2011, marked the official last day of operation 
of two 1919-vintage turbines. The 
new powerhouse was constructed downstream to make room for feder -
ally required seismic stability work on 
lake James’ l inville Dam.
Also in 2011, we replaced two 
turbines at our Jocassee pumped-storage 
facility in South Carolina, increasing the station’s capacity by 50 MW. Duke energy b razil’s Palmeiras 
small hydro plant (SHP) began commercial operation in February 
2012. e lectricity generated at 
Palmeiras is already contracted for 
sale through 2017. r etiro SHP, located 
in the same region, will begin opera -
tion in n ovember 2012. Together, 
the plants will provide 32 MW of installed capacity.
Read about Duke Energy’s use 
of renewable energy in the Innovative 
Products and Services section of 
this report.
water: A critical resource
Water is a critical resource for Duke energy. In addition to providing hydropower and cooling water for 
our nuclear and fossil plants, water 
resources support public water systems, industries, wildlife and recreation. 
Increasing water demands and 
periodic drought conditions remain challenges for our company, particu -
larly in the Carolinas. Duke energy is working to protect our water supply by investing in more efficient technologies, 
and by continuing to work with public- 
and private-sector partners to improve water management.Technology solutions
As part of the modernization of 
our generation fleet, we’re putting 
technologies in place to make sure 
we’re using water resources efficiently.
Hydropower 
The new powerhouse at our 
relocated b ridgewater Hydro Station 
improves aquatic habitat by increasing 
dissolved oxygen and allowing continuous flow releases downstream. 
In addition, the new generating units 
are larger and more efficient than those they replaced, and can therefore produce more electricity using less water. 
recent turbine replacements at 
our Jocassee Pumped-Storage Hydro Station also improve water efficiency. This South Carolina facility is designed so the turbines can reverse and pump 
back previously used water from l ake 
keowee into l ake Jocassee, allowing 
Duke energy to reuse the same water 
multiple times to generate electricity for customers during periods of 
highest demand.
Wind and solar
We have added more than 1,000 MW 
of wind and solar generation capacity 
over the past four years and will complete five additional wind farms in 2012. e xcept for a limited amount of 
water used for washing photovoltaic 
 
panels, wind and solar farms do not require water for power production. 
Proposed nuclear 
For the proposed l ee nuclear Station 
in South Carolina, Duke energy analyzed 
the plant’s potential water needs. 
We looked at available water sources, needs of upstream and downstream water users, and station and regula -
tory requirements. b ased on this 
detailed analysis, we determined that additional water storage — a drought contingency storage pond — would be needed. The proposed pond would 
provide cooling water during a prolonged 
drought, while minimizing the impact on other regional water users.OUTlOOK ON NE w NUC lEAR 
Following the tragic events of 2011 after the earthquake and devastating tsunami off the 
coast of Japan, the u .S. nuclear industry, including Duke Energy, undertook immediate 
actions to re-verify the safety capabilities of every nuclear power plant. Today, we continue to act on longer-term recommendations to further protect the public, plant workers and 
the environment. 
To meet our customers’ future energy needs, Duke Energy is pursuing the option to add 
new nuclear generation to our fleet in the future. In addition to serving as a cost-effective 
baseload energy source, nuclear energy is also our country’s largest source of carbon-free 
electricity, producing no greenhouse gases. 
 
We have applied for a combined construction and operating license (CO l) from the Nuclear 
regulatory Commission for the proposed l ee Nuclear Station in Cherokee County, S.C. The 
COl is for two Westinghouse AP1000® reactors — one of the world’s safest and most 
economical nuclear power technologies. Project development activities are under way, and we anticipate receiving the CO l in the 2013 time frame. 
Duke Energy is also considering the purchase of a minority interest in Santee Cooper’s 45 percent ownership of two new nuclear reactors at V.C. Summer Nuclear Generating 
Station in Jenkinsville, S.C. In July 2011, Duke Energy signed a letter of intent with Santee 
Cooper to explore a potential 5 to 10 percent interest in the new units.
20 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTPartnerships
We continue to collaborate with 
government agencies, community 
groups and the private sector to 
improve the management of our shared water resources.
XTo properly respond to periodic drought conditions in the keowee-Toxaway river basin in South 
Carolina, Duke energy joined 
forces with Seneca light & Water and greenville Water to implement the keowee-Toxaway Interim low 
Inflow Protocol. This interim drought 
procedure establishes a shared responsibility among the main water users to protect the limited water storage available in lakes Jocassee 
and keowee. 
XThe Catawba-Wateree Drought 
Management Advisory group consists of large water users/withdrawers 
in the Carolinas, including Duke 
energy and resource agencies, which implement the drought management procedures set forth in the Catawba-
Wateree river basin low Inflow 
Protocol, when needed. 
XThe Catawba-Wateree Water Management group (CWWMg) is exploring ways to improve water 
consumption trends through a 
survey of demand-management best practices across the u.S. The CWWMg is using the survey results 
to identify measures that member 
utilities can implement to manage water demand in the Catawba-Wateree river basin.
I’m accountable for reducing Duke Energy’s landfill waste by identifying and recovering 
reusable materials. Part of my job includes a fair amount of dumpster diving!
reducing landfill waste is part of Duke Energy’s Sustainability Plan. In 2008, we set a 
challenging four-year goal to increase our percentage of solid waste that’s recycled from 
52 to 62 percent. We exceeded our goal — by establishing aggressive departmental 
targets and initiatives for recycling, and by significantly improving our wood waste reuse 
and recycling efforts.
The results are substantial. In 2011, Duke Energy recycled about 7,000 tons more 
material than we did in 2008. More than 4,700 tons of wood would have ended up in 
local landfills (the weight equivalent of 2,500 Chevy Volts) — that’s about 3,000 tons 
more wood than the company recycled in 2008. 
One way we achieved our wood recycling targets was by pioneering new programs with 
innovative vendors. In the Midwest, for example, one vendor processes thousands of 
tons of discarded wood — utility poles, reels, pallets and packing materials — and 
repurposes much of it as treated wood or mulch. Most of the remainder is shipped to 
a wood shredding facility, where it is processed and sold as biomass fuel. We are one 
of the leading wood recyclers in our industry — currently recycling about 400 tons of 
wood per month, on average. Now, we are ramping up our wood recycling program in the 
Carolinas. We expect to yield at least 1,000 additional tons of repurposed wood in 2012. 
Every Duke Energy employee has an opportunity to recycle and reduce waste. Together 
with departmental and vendor initiatives, we are making substantial progress. Through 
our collective efforts, thousands of tons of repurposed or recycled materials stay out of 
our local landfills every year.I’m Accountable Russ Wilkenloh
Manager, Asset recovery 
and recycling
 wEB ExClUSIVE CONTENT
XDuke Energy’s headquarters has 
gone platinum 
XGreener vehicles, greener drivers 
XShutting down wind turbines at night to protect bats
XGenerating carbon credits in Peru
XBlog: The Nuclear Information Center
Eagle Viewing Day 
2012
VIDEO
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  212011 ElECTRICITY  GENERATED  (neT Meg AWATT -HOurS) 1
United s tates Latin america total
MWh 
(thousands) PercentMWh 
(thousands) PercentMWh 
(thousands) Percent
Coal  84,074 58.5% 37 0.2%  84,111 52.5%
Natural gas/oil  13,638 9.5%  3,088 18.6%  16,726 10.4%
total fossil  97,712 68.0%  3,125 18.8%  100,837 62.9%
Nuclear  41,798 29.1% 0 0%  41,798 26.1%
Conventional hydro  1,739 1.2%  13,476 81.2%  15,215 9.5%
Wind  3,094 2.2% 0 0%  3,094 1.9%
solar  43 <1% 0 0%  43 <1%
total carbon-free  46,675 32.5%  13,476 81.2%  60,150 37.5%
Pumped-storage hydro 2 (660) -0.5% 0 0%  (660) -0.4%
total  143,726 100.0%  16,600 100.0%  160,327 100.0%
1 All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets. Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding. 
2 Pumped-storage hydro helps meet peak demands and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces. 
2011 G ENERATION  CAPACITY  (Meg AWATTS ) 3
United s tates Latin america total
MW Percent MW Percent MW Percent
Coal 15,932 45.0% 83 1.9% 16,015 40.4%
Natural gas/oil 9,879 27.9% 1,279 29.9% 11,158 28.1%
total fossil 25,811 73.0% 1,362 31.9% 27,173 68.5%
Nuclear 5,173 14.6% 0 0.0% 5,173 13.0%
Conventional hydro 1,181 3.3% 2,915 68.1% 4,096 10.3%
solar 64 0.2% 0 0.0% 64 0.2%
Wind 1,006 2.8% 0 0.0% 1,006 2.5%
total carbon-free 7,424 21.0% 2,915 68.1% 10,339 26.1%
Pumped-storage hydro 42,140 6.0% 0 0.0% 2,140 5.4%
total 35,375 100% 4,277 100% 39,652 100%
3 All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets. u .S. coal capacity is year-end 2011 total, less Gallagher 
units 1 and 3 (280 MW) and Dan river units 1, 2 and 3 (276 MW), all of which retired in early 2012. u .S. natural gas/oil capacity 
is year-end 2011 total, less reduced ownership position in the Vermillion plant (80 MW) due to a January 2012 transaction. Totals 
may not add up exactly due to rounding. 
4 Pumped-storage hydro helps meet peak demands and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces.
FUElS CONSUMED FOR U.S. El ECTRIC G ENERATION 5
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Coal (million tons) 46.8 45.0 36.1 39.6 35.8
Oil (million gallons) 23.0 22.2 18.3 18.0 19.9
Natural gas (billion cubic feet) 33.7 26.8 50.7 64.6 96.3
5 All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets.
wATER wITHDRA wN AND C ONSUMED ( bIllIOn gA llOnS)
2008 62009 72010 2011
Withdrawn 4,000 3,800 3,900 3,700
Consumed 60 74 88 76
6 Excludes Duke Energy International and Duke Energy Generation Services.
7 Excludes Duke Energy Generation Services.2011 Electricity Generated *
 52.5%  Coal 
 26.1% Nuclear 
 10.4%  Natural gas/ 
oil
 9.5%    Conventional 
hydro
 1.9%  Wind/solar
* Pumped-storage hydro, which totaled (0.4%), consumes more energy than it produces. 
Almost 40 percent of the electricity we 
generated in 2011 was from carbon-free 
sources, including nuclear, hydro, wind 
and solar.
2011 Generation Capacity *
 40.4% Coal 
 28.1%  Natural gas/
oil
 13.0% Nuclear
 10.3%   Conventional 
hydro
 2.7%  Wind/solar
* Pumped-storage hydro, which totaled 5.4%, consumes more 
energy than it produces. 
Our diverse generation portfolio helps us 
generate electricity that is affordable, reliable 
and increasingly clean. 
Fuels consumed for U.S. 
electric generation
Compared to 2010, coal consumption 
decreased and natural gas consumption 
increased in 2011, mostly because natural 
gas became a relatively less expensive fuel. 
water withdrawn and consumed
Water withdrawn  is the total volume removed 
from a water source, such as a lake or a 
river. Due to once-through cooling systems 
on many of our coal-fired and nuclear 
plants, about 98 percent of this water is 
returned to the source and available for 
other uses. Water consumed is the amount 
of water removed for use and not returned 
to the source.
22 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTENVIRONMENTA l PERFORMANCE  METRICSEmissions from generation
Emission levels and intensities depend on 
many factors, including generation diversity 
and efficiency, demand for electricity, weather, 
fuel availability and prices, and emissions 
controls deployed. Carbon dioxide (CO2 ), 
sulfur dioxide (SO2 ) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) 
emissions decreased in 2011 from 2010 due to decreased generation (resulting from lower 
electricity demand), decreased coal generation 
and increased natural gas generation. We have 
invested approximately $5 billion over the past 
decade to significantly reduce SO
2 and NOx 
emissions from our coal fleet. As a result, we have reduced u .S. SO
2 emissions by almost 
76 percent and NOx by 52 percent since 2006. Our fleet modernization strategy will help us 
further reduce emissions. 
U.S. Toxic Release Inventory (TRI)
Duke Energy’s T rI releases for 2010 were 
down 56 percent from 2006, primarily due 
to the significant investments we’ve made in 
environmental controls for our power plants. 
however, our T rI releases for 2010 increased 
8 percent over 2009, primarily due to our use of more fossil-fueled electric generation 
to meet higher demand for electricity. In 
addition, less coal ash was beneficially used, 
due to decreased demand for construction 
materials. (Data for 2011 will be available 
in August 2012.) 
U.S. on-road and off-road vehicle 
fleet emissions and fuel consumed
We have a goal to reduce nitrogen oxides, 
volatile organic compounds, particulate 
matter and carbon monoxide emissions 
from our on-road and off-road vehicle fleet 
by 35 percent by 2012 compared to 2006. 
From 2006 to 2011, emissions have been 
reduced by almost 31 percent, and we are 
on track to meet our goal.EMISSION S FROM GENERATION 8
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
CO2  emissions (thousand tons) 9
 u.S. 108,500 105,000 90,800 97,600 91,100
 latin America 3,100 2,700 2, 900 2,300 2,300
total 111,600 107,700 93,700 99,900 93,300
total CO2 emissions intensity (tons per net MWh) 0.66 0.66 0.59 0.60 0.58
U.s. sO2  emissions (tons) 10682,300 427,700 239,800 221,200 200,200
U.s. sO2 emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh) 8.9 5.8 3.4 3.0 2.8
U.s. NOx emissions (tons) 10130,500 122,700 64,800 71,800 71,100
U.s. NOx emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh) 1.7 1.7 0.9 1.0 1.0
8 Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding.
9 CO2 reported from Duke Energy’s u .S. electric generation and Duke Energy International operations, and based on ownership 
share of generating assets.
10 SO2 and NOx reported from Duke Energy’s u .S. electric generation based on ownership share of generating assets.
U.S. SU lFUR D IOxIDE AND N ITROGEN Ox IDES E MISSIONS (THOu SAnD TOnS) 11
  u.S. sulfur dioxide emissions    u.S. nitrogen oxides emissions
 750
 600 450 300 150 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
11  SO2 and NOx reported from Duke Energy’s u .S. electric generation based on ownership share of generating assets.
U.S. TO xIC RElEASE  INVENTORY  (THOu SAnD POunDS) 12
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
releases to air 75,752 59,584 39,382 24,318 23,882
releases to water 195 224 234 211 144
releases to land 14,224 15,593 13,895 11,753 15,077
Off-site transfers 64 92 118 509 492
total 90,235 75,492 53,630 36,790 39,595
12 Data pertain to facilities Duke Energy owns or operates and where Duke Energy is the responsible reporting party. Totals may not 
add up exactly due to rounding.
U.S. O N-ROAD AND O FF-ROAD V EHIClE FlEET E MISSIONS AND F UEl CONSUMED 13
2006   
(baseline) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Number of vehicles 5,396 5,426 5,460 5,647 5,637 5,692
Fuel consumed (thousand gallons) 7,800 7,887 7,569 7,294 7,118 7,101
Nitrogen oxides  (tons) 486 497 449 467 414 372
Volatile organic compounds  (tons) 73 66 59 56 47 44
Particulate matter  (tons) 24 26 24 27 25 22
Carbon monoxide  (tons) 718 629 649 544 497 463
total emissions  (tons) 1,301 1,218 1,181 1,094 984 902
13 This table represents just over 90 percent of our vehicle fleet. Operation and fuel consumption are estimated where individual 
mileage, engine hours or fuel measurements are not available. These estimates are used for emissions calculations where necessary. Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding. 
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  23ENVIRONMENTA l PERFORMANCE  METRICSACCE lERATED  MAIN REPlACEMENT  PROGRAM
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Goal
reduction in leaks repaired 
(since 2007)Baseline year 6% 29% 14% 16%20% by 
2012
wASTE
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
U.s. solid waste 14 
 total generated  (tons)  
 Percent recycled 
— 
— 
40,162  
52% 
39,651  
55% 
38,651  
63% 
43,586  
64%
Hazardous waste generated  (tons) 15— — 438 125 166
Low-level radioactive waste 
(Class B and C) generated (cubic feet)1,420 1,303 739 658 903 16  
(42% 
less than 
baseline)
14 All data exclude Duke Energy Generation Services, Duke Energy International and large, one-time projects. Weights are estimated 
based on volumes where necessary. Data not available for 2007.
15 Companywide data not available for 2007 or 2008.
16 This increase is due to cyclic, routine maintenance activities in 2011.
U.S. El ECTRICITY C ONSUMED
2005-2007  
average 
(baseline)2006-2008 
average2007-2009 
average2008-2010 
average2009-2011 
average
Electricity consumption: 13 of 
our largest commercial buildings (megawatt-hours)64,836 62,607 60,486 58,783 56,461  
(13% 
less than 
baseline)
REPORTAB lE OIl SPIllS 17
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
spills 79 66 92 56 59
Gallons 28,900 6,600 4,700 7,400 2,300
17 Data for 2007 and 2008 include u .S. spills only. Duke Energy International spill data are included for later years. Data for 2007 and 
2008 also exclude Duke Energy Generation Services.
ENVIRONMENTA l REGUlATORY  CITATIONS 18
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Citations 12 16 20 19 12
Fines/penalties  (dollars) $29,265,500 $141,657 $2,805,525 $15,982 $20,045
18 Includes international and u .S. federal, state and local citations and fines/penalties.Accelerated Main 
Replacement Program
In 2000, the Accelerated Main r eplacement 
Program (AM rP) was launched on Duke 
Energy’s natural gas distribution system in 
Ohio and k entucky to prevent leaks requiring 
repair and to improve safety, performance and reliability. The program accelerates 
replacement of approximately 1,400 miles 
of cast iron and bare steel pipe, some in 
service since 1873. The AMr P is complete in 
kentucky and more than 80 percent complete 
in Ohio. We are on track to meet our target of 
reducing repaired leaks by 20 percent by 2012 
compared to 2007. r educing leaks decreases 
the release of natural gas, which is mostly methane, a greenhouse gas 
 approximately 
20 times more potent than CO2.
waste
We have a goal to increase the percentage 
of u.S. solid waste that is recycled from 
52 percent in 2008 to 62 percent by 2012. Our nuclear plants also have a goal to reduce 
by 25 percent the amount of low-level 
radioactive waste 
 (Class B and C) they 
generate by 2012, compared to the 2002 
through 2006 average of 1,552 cubic feet. 
In 2011, we exceeded both of these goals.
U.S. electricity consumed
We have a goal to reduce electricity consump -
tion at 13 of our largest commercial buildings 
by 10 percent by 2012, compared to the 
2005 through 2007 average. In 2011, we 
exceeded this goal.
Reportable oil spills
Oil spills include releases of lubricating oil from 
generating stations, leaks from transformers, or 
damage caused by weather or by third parties 
(typically due to auto accidents).
Environmental regulatory citations
No fines were associated with 10 of the 12 citations in 2011. The 2007 total fines/
penalties figure includes proposed fines of 
approximately u S$29 million assessed by 
the Brazil State Environmental Agency of Parana (IAP) and approximately u S$250,000 
by the Brazilian Institute of Environment and renewable Natural r esources (IBAMA) for 
alleged violations related to reforestation. We continue to contest these violations.
24 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTENVIRONMENTA l PERFORMANCE  METRICSSafety performance 
reaches record levels
Our ongoing efforts to strengthen and 
sustain our safety culture are paying off. In 2011, we had our best year 
ever from a safety standpoint. For the 
first time since 2008, we had zero employee or contractor work-related fatalities. 
We can attribute this improvement 
to many factors, including a heightened focus on our safety culture among contractors in 2011. We more actively engaged our contracted companies, 
their managers and workers in monthly 
safety forums, ongoing dialogue, alignment exercises and more.
Our 2011 employee Total Incident 
Case r ate (TIC r) 
 of 0.86 set a new 
company record as well, and nearly achieved our aggressive target of 0.84. 
In 2011, we experienced 15 fewer 
recordable incidents than in 2010. Our employee TIC r has improved 
43 percent since 2006.
Although we are satisfied with our 
safety improvement through the years, we cannot and will not lower our expectation for the future — which is to achieve top-decile TIC r performance 
among our industry peers. Company leaders continue to develop safety improvement plans in their organizations. These plans increase safety awareness, 
and reduce employee and contractor 
exposure to workplace hazards. Fifty-five safety improvement plans were imple -
mented companywide in 2011.
Additionally, in 2012 we are 
stepping up our efforts to prevent serious injuries and fatalities. We are part of a Mercer/O rC group 
 of u.S. and multinational companies — 
including ge , Alcoa, e xxon, k imberly-
Clark and others — that is focused on occupational safety and health. Together, we are working to develop a methodology to eliminate or reduce 
serious injuries and fatalities in 
the workplace.
Creating a culture of health
At Duke energy, we recognize that the health and well-being of our employees are essential to the company’s success. 
Our goal is to create an environment 
that promotes and supports personal accountability, and improves the health, safety and productivity of our workforce. 
live Well, Duke energy’s broad range 
of health coverage, wellness and clinical support programs, is the way we deliver on that promise. Just as Duke energy Quality Workforce
Duke Energy’s Power Delivery crews are on the 
front lines of strengthening our safety culture.
SAFETY A T DUKE E NERGY
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Employee and contractor work-related fatalities 2 0 3 5 0
Employee t otal i ncident Case r ate ( tiCr) 11.25 1.15 1.00 0.90 0.86
Employee Lost Workday Case r ate (LWC r) 20.26 0.28 0.23 0.23 0.32
Contractor t otal i ncident Case r ate ( tiCr) 1— — 1.21 31.07 1.20
Contractor Lost Workday Case r ate (LWC r) 2— — — — 0.28 3
1 Number of recordable incidents per 100 workers (based on OShA criteria). Top decile in 2010 for employee TICr was 0.72 
(based on the latest data available from the Edison Electric Institute). 
2 Number of lost workday cases per 100 workers.
3 First year compiled and reported.Challenges
 XImprove employee and 
contractor safety even more
 XBuild a culture of health to improve the well-being of our employees 
 XImprove diversity and effectively manage a multigenerational workforce
Opportunities
 XMaintain our strong reputation as a preferred employer
 XContinue to partner with colleges and universities to build a pipeline of talent
 XSelectively hire top talent and effectively transfer knowledge and skills as 
baby boomers retire
2011 and Early 2012 
Highlights
 XFor the first time 
since 2008, had zero employee or contractor 
work-related fatalities
 XAchieved the best employee 
safety Total Incident Case Rate in company history, 
a 43 percent decrease 
from 2006
 XMaintained a high level of management and employee engagement, as measured 
by favorable scores on 
survey questions3
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  25Employee engagement is critical to our 
success as a company. In this Q&A, Jennifer 
Weber discusses Duke Energy’s focus on 
individual accountability as key to building 
and sustaining a high-performance culture. 
What is Duke Energy doing to manage 
talent for peak performance?  Duke Energy 
has always been focused on performance and results. h owever, in 2010 we enhanced our 
performance management process to help managers and employees be more successful. 
Critical components of this new approach:
 XTrain all managers on the enhanced process and our philosophy of a high-performance 
culture and employee engagement. 
 XProvide effective coaching and feedback 
to all employees.
 XDevelop clear goals that are aligned with company goals, to help employees 
understand how they impact company 
results.
 Xlink merit and incentive opportunities to 
drive individual accountability.
 XProvide more effective online tools to help managers set goals and track performance.After one year, the new performance 
management process paid off, as evidenced by the 2011 Employee Opinion Survey. “ rewarding 
performance” scores are the highest they’ve been since 2006. r atings on manager 
effectiveness rose dramatically and are 7 percentage points above the national norm. 
We believe the key drivers for these improved 
scores are in-depth performance discussions 
between employees and their managers, 
and performance-based compensation. 
Our managers also quickly embraced the 
new process, set the expectations, and 
better understood their role in helping 
employees develop their skills and perform 
to their potential.
What do you mean by employee engage -
ment, and why does it matter? We define 
employee engagement as the extent to which 
employees are willing to put forth discretionary 
effort to help the company succeed. Engaged 
employees care about their work and the 
performance of the company, and they under -
stand how their efforts impact results. 
research shows that highly engaged 
employees drive business success because 
they take responsibility for the quality of work, 
controlling costs, customer satisfaction and 
innovative ideas. Employee engagement is a 
critical outcome of our focus on performance 
and manager effectiveness.How does the company empower employees 
to take ownership for managing their careers?  In several ways. As part of 
the performance management process, managers have periodic career discussions 
with employees, creating a collaborative 
goal-setting environment. 
Employees have an opportunity to create 
individual career development plans — 
a road map of their career aspirations 
and how they can achieve them. And they 
are encouraged to maintain l ive Profiles 
(online resumes) in our talent management system. These profiles are used to search 
for employees with specific qualifications 
for special assignments, projects or key 
company positions. 
Employees also have access to self-serve 
resources on our employee Portal — including 
company-sponsored training, competency 
self-assessment and resources for career 
development. h owever, nothing is more 
important than initiating career development discussions with managers and mentors. 
To learn how Duke Energy continues to 
build on these positive results, see the 
continuation of Jennifer Weber’s Q&A 
in the Quality Workforce section of our 
Sustainability Report online.
 I’m Accountable Jennifer WeberGroup Executive, human r esources and Corporate r elations
26 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrThas aggressively pursued safety as a 
top priority, we’re now putting that same level of energy into building a culture 
of health.
According to u nitedHealthcare 
(uHC), our medical plan administrator, 
many medical claims for Duke energy employees are related to preventable 
conditions. Cardiovascular conditions, diabetes, and joint and back problems are among the top health conditions currently affecting our employees. u HC 
is providing educational health and disease management coaching, which is available to all employees as part of the live Well program.
Free biometric 
 health screenings 
are provided at many work locations. employees who participate receive l ive 
Well program incentives that can reduce the cost of their medical coverage. (Those who can’t participate on site can earn the same incentives by visiting 
their doctors for those screenings.) 
employees can earn additional incentives by getting preventive health services, completing online health assessments, attending on-site 
educational sessions and participating 
in health coaching.
Our focus on wellness benefits 
employees’ health and the bottom 
line — for both employees and the 
company. Duke energy’s medical plan is self-insured, which means that Duke energy and employees share the responsibility for paying all medical 
costs. When we manage those costs 
effectively, both employees and Duke energy reap the savings. 
Controlling costs and staying healthy 
can start with something as simple as stretching. 
Our Power Delivery workforce has 
begun to make fitness a part of every workday, with a morning stretching 
program. This simple but innovative 
best practice drew the attention of The Wall Street Journal 
, which 
called it “an inventive way to keep its experienced, maturing line workers in 
tip-top physical condition for the job.”
Whether it’s stretching, walking, 
working out or getting a yearly physical, 
Duke energy employees are finding 
ways to stay healthy — for their own 
benefit and the company’s. Building a pipeline of 
energy workers
Training the next generation of energy 
workers — at every level — is essential. The u nited States is facing what the 
national Commission on energy Policy 
calls “a critical shortage of trained professionals to maintain the existing electric power system and design, 
build and operate the future electric 
power system.” 
At Duke energy, more than 
60 percent of our employees are “baby boomers” — born between 1946 and 
1964. b ecause of this, we have a large 
population of employees approaching 
retirement age. In fact, more than half of our employees will be eligible to retire 
in five years, and about two-thirds in 
10 years. ( eligible to retire is defined 
as 55 years of age or older, with at least five years of service.) 
To address this potential loss of 
talent, we’re working on several fronts to make sure we have a pipeline of energy workers ready to tackle tomorrow’s challenges.
Partners in education
One strategy is to partner with 
line-worker academies and nuclear 
operator programs at community 
and technical colleges in our service 
areas. We provide programmatic support through funding, equipment, instructors, curriculum development, scholarships and employment 
opportunities for graduates.
We also partner with universities 
to develop the next generation of energy 
expertise. In 2011, The Duke energy Foundation announced a $4.5 million 
gift to support un C Charlotte’s energy 
Production and Infrastructure Center 
(ePIC), which is focused on training new 
engineers and conducting research in 
energy technologies.
The center will be an educational 
resource for engineering students 
from many universities and colleges, and a national laboratory for cutting-
edge technologies that will shape the 
energy industry.
Ongoing training in facilities such as this control room simulator at McGuire Nuclear Station is vital to 
safe and reliable operations.Four generations in Duke Energy’s 
U.S. workforce
  0.5% Traditionalists (born before 1946) 
  61.2% Baby boomers (born 1946-1964) 
  30.1% Generation X (born 1965-1981)
 8.2%   Millennials (born after 1981)
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  27The gift, to be made over a five-year 
period, was announced along with a 
$4.3 million gift from Siemens. The 
combined support will help fund:
 XA student fellows program for 
incoming freshmen with an interest in energy engineering 
 XA smart grid research laboratory 
 XA faculty position for a distinguished professor with proven research in power engineering systems to serve 
as the center’s inaugural director.
Creating career pathways
The Center for energy Workforce 
Development (CeWD), with funding 
from the bill and Melinda gates Foundation, is piloting the get Into energy Career Pathways program in nine states, including four in our service 
area: north Carolina, South Carolina, 
Indiana and Ohio. The CeWD is working through state energy Workforce Consortia — partnerships of energy 
companies, educational institutions, 
and state labor departments and workforce agencies. 
The intent of the program is to 
hire and train 500 low-income young 
adults for energy-related careers by 
2013. Duke energy is supporting this program by offering employment, training and opportunities for career 
advancement to selected participants 
in our service areas.
Thanks to the planning Duke energy 
is doing today, our pipeline of promising talent will position us well to meet the 
workforce needs of the future.wORKFORCE STATISTICS
 12/31/07 12/31/08 12/31/09 12/31/10 12/31/11
Full- and part-time employees  18,117  18,548  18,683  18,439  18,249 
 united States  17,045  17,429  17,581  17,293  17,067 
 International  1,072  1,119  1,102  1,146  1,182 
Collective bargaining unit/union members as percent of workforce
  u.S. (members of a collective bargaining unit) 25.5% 25.2% 24.7% 24.6% 24.3%
  International (dues-paying members of a union) 30.2% 27.4% 26.2% 25.4% 24.9%
U.S. wORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS 1
 12/31/07 12/31/08 12/31/09 12/31/10 12/31/11
Ethnic diversity as percent of workforce
 White 86.6% 86.7% 86.9% 86.4% 86.2%
 Black/African-American 11.3% 11.2% 11.0% 11.2% 11.2%
 hispanic/latino 0.9% 0.9% 0.9% 1.1% 1.2%
 Asian 0.8% 0.8% 0.9% 1.0% 1.0%
 American Indian/Alaska Nation 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
  Native hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 
(new category for 2010)— — — 0.0% 0.0%
 Not specified 0.2% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Females/minorities as percent of workforce/management
 Females as percent of workforce 22.6% 22.6% 22.6% 22.9% 22.9%
 Females as percent of management 17.2% 15.5% 16.3% 17.2% 17.7%
 Minorities as percent of workforce 13.3% 13.3% 13.1% 13.6% 13.8%
 Minorities as percent of management 8.0% 7.9% 7.6% 7.6% 7.9%
1 Ethnic diversity and gender data are not captured for Duke Energy International employees.
U.S. EMPlOYEE TURNOVER SUMMARY
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
reason
 Severance package volunteers  405  210  14  686  225 
 resignations  244  304  160  178  286 
 retirements  218  190  205  197  163 
  Employees who were notified they did not have a position in the company and elected to leave with a severance package
 2 114  18  12  27  21 
 Dismissals  46  96  127  144  147 
  Other attrition (e.g., deceased, disability) 3 28 41 78 106  91 
total turnover  1,055  859  596  1,338  933 
total U.s. employees  17,045  17,429  17,581  17,293  17,067 
turnover as a percent of workforce 6.2% 4.9% 3.4% 7.7% 5.5%
Percentage of employees eligible to retire in 5 years
 4 — — 50.9% 50.9% 52.3%
Percentage of employees eligible to retire in 10 years
 4 — — 67.9% 66.7% 66.6%
2  Employees whose jobs were affected by restructuring were offered an option to transfer into a “transition pool” for a six-month 
period, during which they could look for other employment opportunities within Duke Energy.
3 In 2009 and 2010, this attrition was included in the resignations category.
4 Eligible to retire is defined as 55 years of age or older, with at least 5 years of service. wEB ExClUSIVE CONTENT
XEmployee engagement improves 
XEmployees recognized with 
James B. Duke awards 
Working at 
Duke Energy
VIDEO
28 Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrTwORKFORCE PERFORMANCE METRICSEconomic development — 
more important than ever
economic development is more crucial to 
recovery than at any other time since the 
recession began in 2007. Most of the 
temporary federal aid to states through 
the recovery Act expired at the end of 
fiscal year 2011 — further challenging the states’ ability to bridge the gap 
between revenue and cost of services. 
The states of Ohio, k entucky and 
north Carolina have already projected 
budget shortfalls for fiscal year 2013, 
which begins July 1, 2012. One of 
the most sustainable ways to begin 
reversing the downturn is to boost economic activity.
Doing our part
Duke energy takes seriously our 
responsibility to promote economic 
development in the communities where we do business. Access to low-cost, 
reliable power is a critical factor in a 
company’s decision about where to locate its facilities. As a top-performing utility, Duke energy is in a key position 
to meet companies’ energy needs and 
attract job-creating industry and capital investment to our service territories.
but corporate clients need more 
than power. They need readily available 
building sites, transportation infrastruc -
ture, access to state and local incentives, 
flexible workforce training programs, and proximity to a community of customers 
and business partners. That’s what Duke 
energy delivers through our award-winning economic development program.
In 2011, Site Selection magazine 
named Duke energy to its Top 10 
utilities in Site Selection for n orth 
America for the 13th consecutive year. 
Whether a company is looking for a new site for manufacturing, logistics, distri -
bution or headquarters, our economic development team does the legwork for them. We identify sites, qualify them and then promote them to companies that are considering relocation or expan -
sion in our service areas.
Regional approach
rather than using a one-size-fits-all 
approach, Duke energy’s economic 
development program focuses on the strengths and potential of each 
region we serve, and matches those to 
customer needs. e ach of our service 
areas offers unique opportunities in terms of incentives, workforce and 
transportation. We help companies 
match their needs with those assets and establish business relationships in our communities. 
Overall, Duke energy’s economic 
development program helped attract nearly $4 billion in capital investments in 2011, which will bring 13,635 new jobs to our service areas — in the midst 
of a “jobless recovery.” When industries 
choose to locate within Duke energy’s service territory, they can be confident their utility will be a partner in achieving bottom-line success.
To learn how Duke Energy is 
approaching economic development in each of our service areas, read the rest of this article in the Strong 
Communities section of our online 
Sustainability Report.  
Investing in our communities
Duke energy provides charitable giving to help meet immediate needs, and to strengthen our communities 
for the future.
In 2011, charitable giving from The 
Duke energy Foundation, combined with 
company donations, employee and retiree 
gifts and the value of volunteer hours, 
totaled over $31 million — surpassing our 2010 total by more than $2 million. 
hands-on involvement in local community 
projects is the focus of Duke Energy’s annual 
Global Service Event.Strong Communities
Challenges
 XEncourage economic devel -
opment in the continuing 
sluggish economy
 XHelp the communities we serve rebound from the recession, as temporary 
federal aid expires 
Opportunities
 XContinue to help attract 
capital investment and new jobs to our service territories
 XUse our community programs to strengthen the regions we serve
 XHelp lead innovative public/private partnerships that provide significant benefits to 
our customers and community 
2011 and Early 2012 
Highlights
 XProvided competitively priced, 
reliable electricity in each of our five states
 XHelped attract nearly $4 billion in capital investment and 13,635 new jobs 
 XContributed more than $31 million to our communities (includes contributions from 
The Duke Energy Foundation 
and the company, along with employee and retiree donations and the value of 
volunteer hours)
 XProvided more than 200,000 
hours of volunteer time from our employees and retirees, 
and their friends and families4
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  292011 C HARITAB lE GIVING
The Duke Energy Foundation $16.5 million
Other company cash contributions 
and in-kind.  gifts and services$ 4.7 million
Cash contributions from employees and retirees$ 5.6 million
Value of employees’ , retirees’ and other volunteers’ time$ 4.4 million
total charitable giving $31.2 million
We review Foundation funding 
requests at the regional level, and make 
decisions based on the needs of the 
community and alignment with our four 
key focus areas:  
 XCommunity vitality — 66 percent ($7.9 million) 
 Xeducation — 20 percent ($2.4 million)
 Xenvironment and energy efficiency — 8 percent ($1 million)
 Xeconomic development — 6 percent 
($0.7 million).
In 2011, education became the 
Foundation’s fourth focus area. Always 
a funding priority, education was previously combined with economic development. Making education its own 
category — and earmarking dollars for 
it — signifies the value we place on preparing the workforce of tomorrow. 
In addition to funding by focus area, 
the Foundation gave $3.7 million in matching gifts and grants for employee and retiree volunteer efforts. Volunteer grants are for “sweat equity” projects 
completed by employees, while board 
leadership grants are designed for employees and retirees who serve on the boards of directors of qualifying 
organizations. 
The Foundation also contributed 
$810,000 to low-income energy 
assistance programs in the Carolinas (Share the Warmth, Cooling 
Assistance and Fan r elief). The 
company contributed $550,000 to 
similar programs in Indiana (Helping Hand), k entucky (WinterCare) and 
Ohio (HeatShare). Duke energy also contributed over $300,000 to those programs as part of our paperless billing promotion. (Read more about paperless billing in the Innovative Products and 
Services section online. 
 )
Customer and employee contribu -
tions to energy assistance programs in all of our states totaled over $840,000. 
besides charitable giving of over 
$31 million in 2011, Duke energy 
invested another $5.4 million to 
support regulatory agreements and 
other business initiatives in the communities we serve. 
Duke energy Carolinas continued 
to share its bulk power marketing 
(bPM) profits in 2011 with support 
for education (over $3.9 million) 
and low-income energy assistance ($500,000). bPM profits come from off-system sales of power on the open market.
Also in the Carolinas, we invested 
more than $1 million to enhance aquatic 
habitat and fish populations, and to 
improve water management, as part of the Catawba-Wateree Comprehensive relicensing Agreement. 
A force for good: Volunteers 
following their hearts
Duke energy has a long tradition of 
giving back to the communities we serve. We can be a powerful force for 
change when employees and retirees 
feel passionate about the causes they support. That’s why we empower our volunteers to determine where the needs 
in their communities are greatest — and 
how to dedicate their time.
The groups and projects that benefit 
from our volunteer efforts are as diverse as our employee base. They include every -
thing from Special Olympics to community clean-up projects, and from Habitat for Humanity to animal rescue centers.
Our online database, Volunteers in 
Action, allows employees to search and sign up for volunteer opportunities in their area, and add new projects that align with their own interests. 
We estimate that in 2011, approxi -
mately 8,300 employees, retirees and their friends and families volunteered 
30 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTmore than 205,000 hours to 
668 service projects. 
While the efforts to give back 
are year-round, Duke energy shines a spotlight on volunteering in May and June with our annual global Service event (gSe). In 2011 — the 
gSe’s 14th year — we estimate that 
260 nonprofit groups benefitted from the approximately 2,700 employee, retiree, friend and family volunteers who worked about 14,000 hours to 
improve their communities.
Duke energy’s not-so-secret 
weapon in the fight to strengthen our 
communities is our mighty retiree 
force. They “come out of retirement,” 
so to speak, when they see needs in their communities. even in sluggish economic times, they have continued to give time and money to those in need. 
retiree contributions to the united Way 
increased by 41 percent, from $50,925 in 2010 to $71,575 in 2011. 
Our employees and retirees remain 
an unstoppable force — for good — in the communities throughout our service areas.
E3 program helps customers 
become leaner and greener
leaner and greener: it’s not an ad 
for the latest fad diet, but it does describe a program that helps small- to medium-sized manufacturers trim waste and energy — while toning their produc-tion processes for a better bottom line. 
The economy, energy & environment 
(e3) 
 program is a collaborative 
federal, state and local initiative that provides manufacturers with custom-
ized, hands-on technical assessments 
of their production processes. And it follows up with recommendations for streamlining processes; reducing 
the use of water, waste and energy; 
increasing productivity; driving innova-tion; and increasing profitability. 
As an e3 partner, Duke energy 
has helped shape programs in north 
Carolina, South Carolina and Ohio, and 
performs many of the energy assess-ments for our manufacturing customers. We’ve also shared this program with 
government agencies and manufac-
turers in brazil as a part of the global Sustainable electricity Partnership’s (gSeP) 
 technology transfer initia-
tive — in partnership with the u.S. environmental Protection Agency and 
Department of energy. (For more on the 
GSEP, see “Renewable power to reach remote villages” article in the Strong Communities section online. 
 )
State and local organizations that 
support manufacturing and workforce 
development serve as the regional e3 
program leaders. They are responsible for tracking and reporting the program’s economic and environmental impacts. Highlights to date include: 
 XThe South Carolina e3 program saved one of our customers approximately $200,000 in one year 
through a waste reduction initiative.
 XAnother Duke energy customer 
in Ohio saved $60,000 due to productivity improvements and more 
than $150,000 in energy costs.
 XIn its first year of assessments, the 
e3: north Carolina  program 
identified more than $1.3 million dollars in savings statewide.I’m Accountable Richard “Stick” Williams
Senior Vice President, Environmental health and Safety, and 
President, The Duke Energy Foundation
Education is one of the pillars of a strong community. In the following 
Q&A, Stick Williams discusses Project L.I.F.T., an innovative program 
he co-chairs. Created to dramatically improve Charlotte’s lowest-
performing schools, Project L.I.F.T. may prove to be a national model for 
public/private partnerships. 
What is Project L.i.F.t., and how did you get involved? l.I.F.T. 
stands for leadership and Investment for Transformation. It’s aimed at 
eliminating the achievement gap separating the 7,500 students in the 
West Charlotte corridor from those in other parts of Mecklenburg County.
West Charlotte high School was once a model of integration. But over 
the past couple of decades, academic achievement has plummeted, 
and parental involvement has waned. The school’s graduation rate is 
currently 51 percent; that’s the lowest in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg 
Schools (CMS) system. 
But academic problems don’t begin in high school. They often begin at 
the elementary- and middle-school levels, and we need to intervene 
there as well.Several of us in the philanthropic community — both corporate and private foundations — recognized the need to help our highest poverty 
schools. But we were spurred to action when educator and social activist 
Geoffrey Canada came to Charlotte to speak about the harlem Children’s 
Zone. he’s had remarkable success in turning around low-performing 
schools. We began to talk about how we might achieve similar results. 
How are you going about it? The day we publicly announced this effort 
— on Jan. 31, 2011 — we already had $40 million in commitments from 
private and business foundations. Our fundraising goal is $55 million, so 
we had a solid head start.
But it takes more than dollars and good intentions. We needed to connect 
with those closest to the challenges facing West Charlotte and its feeder 
schools. In community forums, we asked parents and local leaders about 
their needs and ideas. We think our commitment to inclusion — from the 
outset — sets us apart from other efforts.
To read more about Project L.I.F.T. and Richard “Stick” Williams’ 
personal commitment to the project, see the continuation of his Q&A in 
the Strong Communities section of our Sustainability Report online.
 wEB ExClUSIVE CONTENT
 XThe 2012 DNC: All eyes on Charlotte
 XN.C. Big Sweep turns 25 
 XCopper thefts heighten focus on 
public safety
 Xrenewable power to reach remote villages
 XVideo: Sharing the Warmth with Customers
 XVideo: Students Plant Trees to Offset Carbon
 XVideo: helping to Feed the hungry
A Century of 
Service to Indiana
VIDEO
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  31Diverse businesses support 
strong financial results
In 2011, the company grew adjusted 
diluted earnings per share — ending the year at $1.46, three cents higher than 
2010 results.
Our diverse portfolio of businesses 
helped drive those strong financial 
results. For the year, earnings on 
investments in major construction 
projects, favorable results from our Midwest natural gas power plants and strong performance from our International business helped offset 
lower electricity sales, significant storm 
restoration costs, and stiff competition for customers in Ohio.
As a publicly owned company, one 
of our sustainability goals is to deliver competitive returns for our investors. We increased our quarterly dividend by about 2 percent in 2011, the 85th consecutive year Duke energy has paid 
a quarterly dividend on its common 
stock. Sustaining and growing the dividend is central to our shareholder value proposition.
Our total shareholder return — the 
change in stock price plus dividends — was 30.3 percent for 2011. This exceeded the 19.3 percent return of the Philadelphia u tility Index (20 u .S. 
utilities) and the 2.1 percent return of the S&P 500. We have significantly exceeded both of those indices over the past three- and five-year periods.
The strength of our balance sheet 
supports our ability to grow earnings and increase the dividend. During 2011, we continued to take advantage of low interest rates and issued $2.5 billion of fixed-rate debt at a weighted-average 
rate of 3.3 percent. Our investment-
grade credit ratings leave us well positioned for 2012 and beyond.
In 2011, we spent approximately 
$4.5 billion of capital, and we expect that to be fairly consistent in 2012. We continue to hold discretionary capital, which gives us future flexibility to pursue projects that meet our 
growth criteria. 
Duke energy remains positioned 
to achieve long-term annual growth 
in adjusted diluted earnings per 
share of 4 to 6 percent, from a 2009 
base. This anticipated growth rate is supported by:
 XInvestments in our regulated generation fleet and power grid
 XIncreased wholesale sales
 XModest growth in demand for electricity (normalized for weather differences)
 XInvestments in our r enewables and 
International businesses.
Supply chain sustainability 
relies on collaboration
Duke energy’s approach to supply 
chain management is grounded in collaboration — both with our suppliers 
and with other electric utilities that 
share our commitment to sustainability. 
Supplier partnerships
To support our u .S. operations, we 
have more than 10,000 suppliers of 
non-fuel materials and services, with about 2 percent of them accounting for 80 percent of our spending. In 
FINANCIA l HIGHlIGHTS  (IN MILLIONS E xCEPT FOR PER -SHARE DATA ) 1
2009 2010 2011
total operating revenues $12,731 $14,272 $14,529
Net income attributable to Duke Energy Corporation $1,075 $1,320 $1,706
reported diluted earnings per share $0.83 $1.00 $1.28
adjusted diluted earnings per share $1.22 $1.43 $1.46
Dividends per share $0.94 $0.97 $0.99
total assets $57,040 $59,090 $62,526
Long-term debt including capital leases and variable interest 
entities, less current maturities $16,113 $17,935 $18,679
1 See the 2011 Duke Energy Annual r eport/Form 10-k for detailed notes and explanations of figures above.Governance and Transparency
Challenges
 XMaintain strong financial 
performance despite a sluggish economy
 XAchieve timely and constructive regulatory recovery of our investments
Opportunities
 XMaintain strong corporate governance ratings
 XContinue to collaborate with suppliers and other electric utilities to improve 
environmental performance
2011 and Early 2012 
Highlights
 XExceeded 2010 results and our 
own expectations for adjusted diluted earnings per share
 XIncreased the quarterly dividend from 24.5 to 25 cents per share in 2011
 XOutperformed the Philadelphia Utility Index in total shareholder return 
in 2011 and over the 
past three years 5
32 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTrecent years, we have spent over 
$5 billion annually on these materials and services, mostly from domestic 
sources. This includes spending on 
major projects to modernize our fleet, reduce air emissions and maintain system reliability. 
About half of our spending is on 
materials — the other half on services. Many of Duke energy’s large suppliers are well-established companies that share our commitment to sustainability. 
Several of them have been recognized 
by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. And when we seek bids for large contracts, we ask potential suppliers 
about their sustainability performance 
and how they might help us reach our environmental goals.
We also encourage our suppliers to 
conduct business with us electronically. 
Currently, about 50 percent of our 
supply chain transactions are processed electronically, saving paper, time and costs as a result. 
Improving the materials delivery 
process has also reduced costs and environmental impacts. b y partnering 
with a third-party logistics provider, efforts to optimize shipping and delivery 
schedules have reduced the number of 
miles traveled, while maintaining service levels. This has saved approximately 200,000 transportation miles and 
reduced carbon emissions by about 
1 million tons for each of the last two years. In addition, we work with our suppliers to consolidate shipments to our power plants, further reducing 
miles traveled.
Electric utility collaboration
Similar to other electric utilities, 
more than three-fourths of our 
non-fuel spending is for materials and services that are unique to our industry. e xamples include wire 
and cable, poles, transformers, 
turbines and right-of-way clearing. 
given that we purchase many of the 
same materials and services, we believe it is more efficient for the 
industry to work together through 
the electric u tility Industry Sustainable 
Supply Chain Alliance 
 than as 
individual companies. Governance and Transparency
I’m accountable for engaging Duke Energy International (DEI) Brazil’s stakeholders — 
including those who live and work around our nine power plants and reservoirs. 
In 2010, we began identifying groups of stakeholders who are affected by our business. 
Then we started talking to them about our respective needs and concerns — opening 
new channels of communication and understanding. By engaging with community 
leaders, government officials, environmental agencies and others, we have discovered 
new and better ways to address conflicting goals and interests. 
One example is our work in Avaré, a tourist hotspot that borders one of our reservoirs. 
Duke Energy has certain responsibilities, in cooperation with government authorities, 
to protect the reservoir margins classified as preservation areas. The government 
restricts new construction along the 3,100 miles of borders around our reservoirs; 
however, Avaré’s community leaders had somewhat inconsistent objectives. Business 
was booming, and the waterfront areas were prime locations for expansion by 
local developers. 
using our new model of engagement, we met with community leaders and local media 
to explain our environmental obligations. We followed up with a media campaign and 
community events, including an environmental-themed marathon, to educate the 
public on preservation issues. We also partnered with the local fire department and 
town officials to promote safe recreational use of the reservoir. Consequently, we built a stronger partnership with the community, and promoted a culture of mutual respect 
and environmental stewardship.
Our stakeholder engagement process in Brazil is being used as the basis for a model 
that has been developed for DEI’s use throughout l atin America.
It is amazing what happens when we communicate – and work toward mutually 
beneficial solutions. While we still have work to do in this area, I’m very proud of 
the progress we’ve made. I’m Accountable Ana Amélia de Conti Gomes
General Manager, Institutional 
Affairs, latin America
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  33The Alliance works with u .S. electric 
utility suppliers and other interested 
parties to improve environmental 
performance and advance sustain -
able business practices. Working 
teams develop best practices for major categories of electric utility materials 
and equipment, and for supply chain 
operations.
One Alliance initiative is to reduce 
the energy use of its members’ supply chain operations by 10 percent by 
2015, from a 2008 baseline. Through 
projects such as warehouse lighting upgrades, electric forklift conversions and reduced fuel use in vehicles, 
Duke energy is on track to meet that 
10 percent goal by the end of 2012. 
going forward, we will also be 
working with our suppliers and the Alliance to reduce the packaging 
waste associated with the products 
we purchase. This focus on packaging is similar to our current practice of purchasing reel-less bundles of wire and cable, avoiding the use of bulky wooden reels with limited life spans.
As a charter member of the 
Alliance, we will continue to take a leadership role in advancing its goals and objectives.
Participating in the 
political process
because decisions by federal, state 
and local governments — what we 
call “stroke of the pen” risks — can 
have huge impacts on our business, 
it is important for us to represent the concerns of our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders 
in the public arena. Duke energy participates in the 
political process by providing input 
on numerous proposed bills and 
amendments. Our lobbyists consult 
with technical and financial specialists, and provide information to lawmakers to help them make more informed decisions.
In 2011, we spent almost $7.5 million 
on reportable lobbying expenses at the federal and state levels to promote responsible public policy. This amount includes approximately $660,000 of our 2011 federal trade association dues 
that were used for lobbying.
We also contributed just over 
$300,000 in 2011 to political 
organizations that advocate for issues 
and mobilize voters, but do not directly 
support or oppose candidates — for example, the r epublican g overnors 
Association and the Democratic governors Association. 
The company is legally prohibited 
from making direct contributions to candidates running for federal political offices in the u .S., and is 
similarly prohibited from making such contributions in certain states. In 2011, we contributed just over $58,000 in the states where such 
contributions are allowed.
Read our Political Activity Policy 
 
for additional information. 
To learn how Duke Energy employees 
are participating in the political process, 
read the rest of this article in the Governance and Transparency section of our online Sustainability Report.  Global Reporting Initiative
The g lobal r eporting Initiative ( grI)  
is an internationally accepted frame -
work of economic, environmental and 
social performance indicators. We 
provide a detailed response to the grI indicators 
 on our website. 
below we provide a summary index 
to the indicators. With this report and our online information, we believe 
we meet gr I guidelines Application 
level b . 
 XStandard Disclosures (pages 2-7)
 Xeconomic Indicators (pages 3, 5-7, 
29, 32)
 Xenvironmental Indicators 
(pages 16-24)
 XProduct r esponsibility Indicators 
(pages 2-7, 10-15)
 Xlabor Practices and Decent Work 
Indicators (pages 25-28)
 XHuman r ights Indicators (Please 
see our index at duke-energy.com/sustainability/human-rights-
indicators.asp  
)
 XSociety Indicators (pages 24, 29-31, 
33-34)
About our data
environmental and social data can be challenging to measure accurately. We work to continually improve our data 
measurement, gathering and reporting 
processes to increase the integrity of information presented. We correct and report errors in prior-year data where 
found. This report contains the best 
data available at time of publication.GOVERNANCE RATINGS
We regularly benchmark our governance practices. We also currently use the grId (governance r isk Indicators) Profile provided by ISS, a top advisory 
service, to gauge the strength of our corporate governance practices. 
iss — G rid Profile 2010 2011 1scale
Board Structure low Concern Low Concern
low 2, Medium, h igh 
ConcernCompensation low Concern Low Concern
Shareholder r ights low Concern medium Concern
Audit low Concern Low Concern
1 As of March 4, 2012. Published with permission of ISS.
2 r eflects best rating.
 wEB Ex ClUSIVE CONTENT
 XOverseas profits could jump-start 
economy 
 XShedding a light on energy issues 
 XSubcontractors boost diverse supplier results 
 Xrebuilding stakeholder trust in Indiana
 XEngaging stakeholders
 XPartnerships and memberships
34 Duke e nergy CO rPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 Su STAInAbIlITy rePOrTbusiness for Social responsibility 
(bSr) is pleased to provide our sixth independent review of Duke energy’s 
annual Sustainability report. Our 
comments below reflect our knowledge of material sustainability issues for the electric utilities sector, familiarity 
with Duke energy and the company’s 
reporting practices, and experience working with leading global companies to apply international standards and best practices in sustainability 
reporting. This review neither verifies 
nor expresses an opinion on the accuracy, materiality, or completeness of information provided in this report.
Significant achievements in the 
2011
|2012 report include:
XExtensive reporting on the social, environmental and business results of Duke Energy’s sustainability 
initiatives.  This year’s report is 
notable for its documentation of 
the tangible social, environmental, and business results both from 
the company’s progress against 
its long-term sustainability goals (e.g., cumulative improvement in safety and waste reduction) and from demonstrated achievements such 
as the digital grid pilots. business 
returns — including cost savings, new potential products (associated with sustainability innovation), 
improved employee engagement, 
and a culture of innovation — demonstrate Duke energy’s commitment to sustainability.
XSubstantial discussion of supply chain sustainability.  We are pleased 
to see Duke energy incorporate last 
year’s feedback and make strides 
in the quality and sophistication of discussion on supply chain sustain-ability. This includes an overview of 
the company’s procurement activi-
ties, which helps readers understand impacts and the rationale for the company’s approach to managing them, as well as initiatives to reduce 
energy use and packaging waste. XStraightforward tone and 
accessible language. Over the years, we have been impressed 
by the report’s simple and clear 
explanations of complex concepts through accessible language and candid acknowledgement of 
successes and challenges. We 
are pleased with Duke energy’s consistent performance in this area.
Areas that we wish to highlight for 
Duke energy to address in future 
reports include:
XAdditional detail in reporting on absolute carbon emissions. Stakeholder expectations about 
the specificity and detail of carbon 
emissions reporting are rapidly increasing. Should the Duke energy/Progress energy merger 
move forward, this scrutiny will 
only increase — as the largest electric utility in the united States and one of the largest in the world, the company will be viewed as a 
microcosm for the hard choices 
and disruptive innovation needed to transition to a low-carbon economy. Duke energy will need to 
provide a clearer picture of where 
and how emission reductions are achieved by business unit (regulated generation, commercial power and international) and geographically 
across the company’s service 
territories to provide readers with an intimate understanding of progress and challenges. 
XProvide insight into how existing Duke Energy pollution controls and proposed EPA regulations 
protect health.  Advocacy groups 
and residents have raised general 
concerns about the potential health impacts of air emissions 
from coal facilities. We encourage 
Duke energy to provide further insight for stakeholders on its technologies and processes to minimize impacts.  XFollow-up reporting on the effectiveness of talent recruitment initiatives.  Duke energy, along 
with the electric utility industry as a whole, faces critical shortages in qualified personnel over the next 5 to 10 years. This year’s 
report outlines the company’s 
initiatives, alone and in concert with the industry and other partners, to increase the talent pipeline. We look forward to seeing the 
outcomes of these efforts and 
hearing about lessons learned from their implementation.
We appreciate the opportunity to share our feedback and look forward to following Duke energy’s ongoing sustainability journey.
Julia Ka’iulani NelsonManager, Energy & ExtractivesBusiness for Social Responsibility
April 5, 2012
  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  35INDEPENDENT REVIEw550 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, n C 28202
email: sustainability@duke-energy.com
Website: sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.comFORwARD- lOOKING INFORMATION
Cautionary statements regarding forward-looking information
This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 
27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
Forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions. These 
forward-looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” 
“intend,” “estimate,” “expect,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “will,” “potential,” “forecast,” “target,” “guidance,” “outlook” and similar expressions. 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to 
be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to 
differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not 
limited to: state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of 
compliance with existing and future environmental requirements, as well as rulings that affect 
cost and investment recovery or have an impact on rate structures; costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial 
and residential growth or decline in Duke Energy’s service territories, customer base or customer 
usage patterns; additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation; 
political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business; 
the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy’s operations, including 
the economic, operational and other effects of storms, hurricanes, droughts and tornados; 
the impact on Duke Energy’s facilities and businesses from a terrorist attack; the inherent risks associated with the operation and potential construction of nuclear facilities, including 
environmental, health, safety, regulatory and financial risks; the timing and extent of changes 
in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; unscheduled generation 
outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints; the 
performance of electric generation facilities and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy’s nonregulated businesses; the results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy’s subsidiaries’ ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, 
including the credit ratings of Duke Energy and its subsidiaries and general economic conditions; 
declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for 
Duke Energy’s defined benefit pension plans; the level of creditworthiness of counterparties 
to Duke Energy’s transactions; employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy and its business 
units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power 
and other projects; construction and development risks associated with the completion of the 
capital investment projects of Duke Energy and its subsidiaries in existing and new generation 
facilities, including risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, 
meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental 
performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from ratepayers in a timely manner or at all; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting 
standard-setting bodies; the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed 
merger with Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), including the timing, receipt and terms 
and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger 
that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion 
of management’s time and attention from Duke Energy’s ongoing business during this time 
period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and 
the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different 
from what the companies expect; the risk that the proposed merger with Progress Energy is 
terminated prior to completion and results in significant transaction costs to Duke Energy; 
and the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans.
NON-GAAP FINANCIA l MEASURES
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
Duke Energy’s 2011-2012 Sustainability r eport references 2011 adjusted diluted earnings 
per share (EPS) of $1.46. Adjusted diluted EPS is a non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measure, as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations 
attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact 
of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will 
not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits 
could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative 
contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately, as such derivative contracts 
do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting used in Duke Energy’s hedging 
of a portion of the economic value of certain of its generation assets in the Commercial Power 
segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g., coal, power) and, as such, 
the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those commodities. Because the 
operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management 
believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes for the economic hedge contracts 
from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge 
contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management 
believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of the company’s performance across 
periods. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted 
EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, 
which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges 
in the Commercial Power segment. The following is a reconciliation of reported diluted EPS from 
continuing operations to adjusted diluted EPS for 2011, 2010, and 2009:
2011 2010 2009
Diluted EPS from continuing operations, as reported $1.28 $1.00 $0.82
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations, as reported — — 0.01
Diluted EPS from extraordinary items, as reported — — —
Diluted EPS, as reported $1.28 $1.00 $0.83
Adjustments to reported EPS:
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations — — (0.01)
Diluted EPS from extraordinary items — — —
Diluted EPS impact of special items and 
mark-to-market in Commercial Power 
0.18 
0.43 
0.40
Diluted EPS, adjusted $1.46 $1.43 $1.22The following is the detail of the $(0.18) per share in special items and mark-to-market in 
Commercial Power impacting adjusted diluted EPS for 2011:
(in millions, except per-share amounts)Pre-Tax 
Amount Tax Effect2011 Diluted 
EPS Impact
Edwardsport impairment $ (222) $ 87 $ (0.10)
Emission allowances impairment (79) 28 (0.04)
Costs to achieve the Progress Energy merger (68) 17 (0.04)
Mark-to-market impact of economic hedges (1) — —
Total adjusted EPS impact $ (0.18)
The following is the detail of the $(0.43) per share in special items and mark-to-market in Commercial Power impacting adjusted diluted EPS for 2010:
(in millions, except per-share amounts)Pre-Tax 
Amount Tax Effect2010 Diluted 
EPS Impact
Goodwill and other impairments $ (660) $ 58 $ (0.46)
Voluntary retirement plan & office consolidation costs (172) 67 (0.08)
Costs to achieve the Cinergy merger (27) 10 (0.01)
litigation reserve (26) 10 (0.01)
Asset sales 248 (94) 0.12
Mark-to-market impact of economic hedges 33 (12) 0.01
Total adjusted EPS impact $ (0.43)
The following is the detail of the $(0.40) per share in special items and mark-to-market in Commercial Power impacting adjusted diluted EPS for 2009:
(in millions, except per-share amounts)Pre-Tax 
Amount Tax Effect2009 Diluted 
EPS Impact
Goodwill and other impairments $ (431) $ 21 $ (0.32)
Mark-to-market impact of economic hedges (60) 22 (0.03)
International transmission adjustment (32) 10 (0.02)
Crescent-related guarantees and tax adjustments (26) (3) (0.02)
Costs to achieve the Cinergy merger (25) 10 (0.01)
Total adjusted EPS impact $ (0.40)
Duke Energy’s 2011-2012 Sustainability r eport also references the forecasted range of 
growth of 4%-6% in adjusted diluted EPS (on a compound annual growth rate (“CAG r”) basis) 
from a base of adjusted diluted EPS for 2009 of $1.22. Due to the forward-looking nature of this 
non-GAAP financial measure for future periods, information to reconcile it to the most directly 
comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to 
project special items or mark-to-market adjustments for future periods.
Copyright 2012 Duke Energy Corporation  
All rights r eserved