Connected
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTImprove the 
lives of our 
customers and 
vitality of our 
communities
Grow and adapt 
the business 
and achieve 
our financial 
objectivesDevelop 
and engage employees and strengthen leadership
Excel in safety, 
operational performance and environmental stewardship
\ Our Culture \
Safety • Customer Focus • Trust • Accountability • Agility • CollaborationIt’s all connected: Creating long-term value. Focusing on 
sustainable growth by achieving operational excellence. 
Meeting stakeholder expectations. About This Report
You’ll see some changes in our Sustainability Report this year. Lynn Good,  
who became vice chairman, president and chief executive officer in 2013,  
has defined her vision for what’s important to Duke Energy as we move  
forward on “The Road Ahead.”
This includes a renewed focus on our customers and the communities we serve, 
employee engagement and development, and operational excellence in all we do. We are striving to excel in performance, safety and environmental stewardship, 
and last but not least, growing and adapting our business to the changing energy 
landscape. These commitments are all connected – together they are how we will meet the present and future expectations of our stakeholders.
With this report, we’ve reorganized our sustainability goals from the five areas 
we’ve had in the past to the four focus areas we now have as a corporation –  
reflecting that sustainability is woven into all we do at Duke Energy. What’s 
not changed is our narrative that highlights Duke Energy success stories and challenges from the past year.
In 2014, we worked with internal management and external stakeholders to 
examine the issues that are most important for us. As a result, we’ve narrowed our list of issues so that we are reporting on what truly matters most.
We also recognize there is an interest in corporations tying it all together to better 
explain the sustainability implications of our business model. So we’re debuting 
our “Value Creation” chart, showing the major resources and processes we use in our business to create value.
As always, we have online and print versions of this year’s report. You can also 
find a detailed index to the Global Reporting Initiative on our website. And please 
review Duke Energy International’s Sustainability Report, which is available at duke-energy.com.2014 Recognitions
 For the ninth consecutive year,  Duke Energy was named to the  2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Index  
for North America.
 Corporate Knights named Duke Energy 
to its 2014 “Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations” list with a rank of No. 47.
 The Southeastern Corporate Sustainability Rankings named  Duke Energy No. 11, the top-ranked 
utility, among the “2014 Top 100 
Sustainable Companies.”
  The Newsweek Green Rankings, 
“America’s Greenest Companies,”  ranked Duke Energy No. 159  
(No. 6 in our industry).
  Daily Worth named Duke Energy  
No. 16 in its 2014 “25 Best  Companies for Women.”
Contents 
Duke Energy At A Glance  ..........  2
A Message From Our CEO ..........  4
How Duke Energy Creates Value .....  6
Stakeholder Engagement  
And What Matters Most ...........  10
Our Sustainability Plan And Goals  ... 12
Customers  .....................  14
Growth  ........................  20
Operations  .....................  26
Environmental Metrics ............  33
Employees  .....................  36
Shawn Heath | Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 1 /Duke Energy At A Glance
REGULATED UTILITIES
Generation Diversity (percent owned capacity)1 Generation Diversity (percent owned capacity)1
Generated (net output gigawatt-hours (GWh))2
Customer Diversity (in billed GWh sales)2COMMERCIAL POWER
Regulated Utilities consists of Duke Energy’s regulated 
generation, electric and natural gas transmission and distribution systems. Regulated Utilities generation portfolio is 
a balanced mix of energy resources having different operating 
characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide energy at the lowest possible cost. 
Electric Operations
   Owns approximately 49,600 megawatts (MW) of  
generating capacity
   Service area covers about 95,000 square miles with  an estimated population of 23 million 
   Service to approximately 7.3 million residential,  commercial and industrial customers 
   262,900 miles of distribution lines and a  32,400-mile transmission system
Natural Gas Operations
   Regulated natural gas transmission and distribution services to approximately 500,000 customers in southwestern Ohio and northern KentuckyDuke Energy entered into a purchase and sale agreement with 
Dynegy under which Dynegy bought Duke Energy’s nonregulated 
Midwest Commercial Generation Business, which includes 
ownership interests in 11 power plants, and Duke Energy Retail, the company’s competitive retail business in Ohio. The 
transaction closed in April 2015. Commercial Power owned, 
operated and managed power plants and engaged in the wholesale marketing and procurement of electric power, fuel  
and emission allowances related to these plants as well as  
other contractual positions. 
   Owned and operated a balanced generation portfolio of approximately 5,900 net MW of power generation (excluding 
wind and solar generation assets)
3
   Duke Energy Renewables currently has more than 1,800 MW 
of wind and solar energy in operation (pie chart excludes 
442 MW, which are from equity investments), and has a 
significant pipeline of development projects
 38%  Natural Gas/Fuel Oil 
38% Coal 
 17% Nuclear  
 7% Hydro and Solar  
42%  Coal
 33% Nuclear  
 24%  Natural Gas/Fuel Oil  
  1% Hydro and Solar 
44% Natural Gas  
37% Coal  
19% Renewable  
 34% Residential  
 31% General Services
 21% Industrial  
 14% Wholesale/Other  
1  As of December 31, 2014. 
2  For the year-ended December 31, 2014.
3  The company announced in August 2014 it has agreed to sell its nonregulated Midwest 
Commercial Generation Business to Dynegy.Generation Diversity (percent owned capacity)1INTERNATIONAL ENERGY
International Energy operates and manages power generation 
facilities and engages in sales and marketing of electric power 
and natural gas outside the U.S. International Energy’s activities 
target power generation in Latin America. International Energy also has an equity investment in National Methanol Co., a Saudi 
Arabian regional producer of MTBE, a gasoline additive.
   Owns, operates or has substantial interests in approximately 
4,300 net MW of generation facilities
   Approximately two-thirds of International Energy’s generating capacity is hydroelectric
70% Hydro  
 22% Fuel Oil  
   6% Natural Gas  
  2% Coal  
\ 2 \  DUKE ENERGY   SERVICE TERRITORIES
Counties Served
 Duke Energy Indiana
 Duke Energy Ohio/Kentucky
 Duke Energy Progress
 Duke Energy Carolinas
 Overlapping Territory
 Duke Energy Florida
RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECTS
Solar and Wind
 Solar Power Projects
 Wind Power Projects
 Battery Storage Facility
 INDU Solar Projects
INTERNATIONAL OFFICES  
AND ASSETS
 Office
 Fuel Oil
 Natural Gas
 Coal
 HydroMaps Of Operations
SAUDI 
ARABIA
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 3 /Dear Stakeholders:
This past year was both challenging and 
promising for Duke Energy. 2014 tested our resolve, drove us to reconsider our assumptions, 
and prompted new ways of thinking and 
operating among our 28,000 employees. 
In the end, we emerged as a stronger Duke 
Energy, and we’re moving forward with a clear 
vision for how we’ll continue to innovate, lead  
and succeed in this ever-changing industry.
Connected To The Environment
As I mentioned in last year’s Sustainability 
Report, a February 2014 incident at our retired Dan River Steam Station in Eden, North Carolina, 
caused coal ash to flow into the adjacent Dan 
River. We immediately went to work to stop the leak and remove coal ash from the river. Throughout the entire process, neighboring 
communities’ drinking water remained safe. And 
independent tests showed that the river’s water quality quickly returned to normal levels. Along with state and federal agencies, we will continue to monitor the river. 
Nonetheless, we’re accountable for what 
happened and applying what we learned  
to set new standards and implement smart, sustainable solutions to this nationwide issue  
of safely managing coal ash. We’re accelerating our plans to close our ash basins.
Our environmental commitment goes beyond 
our work on the Dan River. In 2014, we created 
a multimillion-dollar Water Resources Fund to 
support projects that benefit waterways around and downstream of our Carolinas operations. We have taken significant actions to reduce our CO
2 emissions over the past several years – for 
example, closing 40 coal-fired generating units and building modern natural gas-fueled plants. 
We’ve also invested more than $4 billion in wind 
and solar facilities and, in 2014, we committed $500 million to expand solar energy in North Carolina. More broadly, we are advocating for 
climate change policies that reduce emissions 
while balancing the impact on customers’ rates, state economies and power reliability.
Connected To Safe Operations
In terms of safety, 2014 was our best year ever for our Total Incident Case Rate, which is a key measure of safety performance. Despite that, 
three employees and a contractor were fatally 
injured on the job. 
We must do better. Our No. 1 priority remains 
the safety of our employees, contractors and 
communities. We’re incorporating the lessons 
learned from these events into new practices and placing special focus on the highest-risk activities. 
Connected To Our Customers  
And Communities
We’re putting customers at the center of all that we do – from meeting record power demand and restoring service after storms to funding 
community initiatives and helping to create jobs. 
I continue to be proud of how our employees 
excel at what we’re known for – efficiently generating electricity and delivering reliable 
energy to homes and businesses. The critical Safety is our  
No. 1 prioritySafetyWe’re building upon our good work  and positioning Duke Energy  
for continued success in 2015 and beyond. I’m excited for 
what’s to come on this difficult, yet vital and fulfilling journey.
A Message From Our CEO
\ 4 \  DUKE ENERGY   nature of our work was put to the test during the 
polar vortex of January 2014. That’s when our teams successfully met our customers’ record 
power demand in the Midwest and Carolinas.  
(In 2015, we met an even greater peak demand 
from our Carolinas customers during a brutally  
cold February.)
Our transmission and distribution teams in the 
Carolinas demonstrated amazing teamwork and rapid response following two major ice storms and a hurricane in 2014. They were supported by 
hundreds of our Midwest and Florida personnel 
who traveled to the Carolinas to help our customers get back up and running. 
Teamwork and collaboration flows throughout 
Duke Energy. And customers are benefiting 
from this good work. We’ve already achieved 60 percent of the guaranteed $687 million in savings for our Carolinas customers as a result of our 2012 merger with Progress Energy. We’re 
on track to meet the total customer savings 
commitment in 2017. 
In 2014, we continued critical work to 
improve our customers’ experience with Duke 
Energy. That means introducing new ways to 
communicate, making account management easier, and better understanding our customers’ needs and expectations for controlling their 
energy usage and costs. 
We are intimately involved in our communities.  
In 2014, The Duke Energy Foundation issued 
more than $26 million in grants and matching 
donations to nonprofits. And we partnered  
with state and local agencies to recruit almost  
$3.6 billion in capital investments and more  
than 11,400 new jobs to our service territories. Connected To The Future
This report offers additional insight into our 
progress in 2014. It describes what we’ve done to prepare for the future. You’ll learn about the 
billions of dollars we’re investing in projects like 
the proposed Atlantic Coast Pipeline, our work  
to prepare for the next generation of customers and workers, how we plan to continue reducing 
our environmental footprint, and much more.
As you’ll see, we have a strong foundation in 
place. We’re building upon our good work and positioning Duke Energy for continued success in 
2015 and beyond. I’m excited for what’s to come 
on this difficult, yet vital and fulfilling journey.  
I look forward to briefing you on our company and progress in next year’s Sustainability Report. 
Sincerely,
Lynn J. Good 
Vice Chairman, President and  Chief Executive Officer
April 17, 2015We’re making 
significant 
CO2 emission 
reductionsSustainability
Lynn J. Good | Vice Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 5 /Duke Energy strives for long-term business success. 
It’s important that stakeholders understand how we use financial, natural and human resources to create the value investors, employees, customers and communities expect.
And it’s all connected. The value Duke Energy creates for 
investors also benefits customers and employees. We must simultaneously be stewards of the natural resources we rely on today, and move forward to promote cleaner generation in the future.
To ensure long-term sustainability, Duke Energy must be 
a good neighbor. That’s how the company will retain the trust of stakeholders. A clean, healthy natural environment, successful communities and strong financial performance – that’s how it all works together.
Our Value Creation Model  >How Duke Energy Creates Value – 2014
\ 6 \  DUKE ENERGYMajor Resources
Production of electricity requires coal, 
natural gas and other materials extracted from the earth. The company also 
needs water to produce electricity at 
hydroelectric facilities – and cooling water  
for fossil fuel and nuclear plants. About 98 percent of the water Duke Energy 
uses is returned to streams and rivers. 
But the company does consume water – about 93 billion gallons in 2014.
Electricity production also requires 
employees who make all parts of 
the business work. Duke Energy is committed to recruiting and retaining  
the right mix of skill sets to ensure the long-term sustainability of our 
operations. Employees are also properly 
trained and focused on Duke Energy’s No. 1 priority – safety.Evolving Business Model 
Duke Energy’s goal is to produce and deliver reliable and cost-effective energy to homes and businesses. But 
customer expectations and technologies 
are changing. People are seeking ways to more actively manage their energy consumption. As distributed generation, 
programmable thermostats, plug-in 
electric vehicles and energy storage become more accessible, customers will demand that Duke Energy be more nimble to deliver these services. 
Communication systems are changing 
from one-way to two-way. High-tech  
electric meters are able to move information quicker – and help the 
company respond faster. 
Helping our customers increase their 
energy efficiency is also part of the company’s evolving business model. 
In the past, the company made money 
on how much power it sold. The new business model is a combination  
of selling electricity and saving it  
for customers.Value Created 
Putting a value on the electricity and natural gas Duke Energy sells is easy.  
Add up all the energy bills in 2014  
and the company’s total revenue was around $24 billion. It’s harder to put a price on what that energy is really  
worth – it powers the economy like  
no other commodity.
Duke Energy also supports communities 
with the taxes it pays, as well as  
through philanthropic contributions  
and employee volunteerism.
Investors also receive value from Duke 
Energy in the form of growth, dividends and interest payments.
Salaries, health insurance subsidies and 
retirement benefits provide support to more than 28,000 employees who work at Duke Energy. They, like the vendor 
companies the company uses, play their 
own part in supporting the communities in which they live and work. The value Duke Energy creates isn’t limited to power generation – it’s a steady stream from 
many areas. It’s not a simple story, but  
it’s a story with impact.
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 9 /Our Value Creation Model
Changing Customer Expectations
32,400
Transmission Line Miles
Generation Transmission61,637  
MW21,313
Coal
23,617
Natural Gas/Oil
8,319
Nuclear4,432
Hydro- 
electric1,628
Wind189
Solar
Our diverse energy mix is one of  
Duke Energy’s strong points. Moving electricity from  
power plants to customers –  
a vital part of Duke Energy. Customers want more information more quickly.
New technologies mean Duke Energy 
must adjust how it delivers to  
customers – it’s not one-size-fits-all. Major Resources
Creating value starts with the basics –  
the staples of a good energy company. Evolving Business Model
As technology and customer expectations 
change, Duke Energy must change with them. 
Data and Communication
44m
Tons Coal
525b
Cubic Feet  
Natural Gas
93b
Gallons H2O 
Consumed
28,300
Employees
~$24b
Revenue
\ 7 \  DUKE ENERGY   The information presented here is meant to provide an overview of Duke Energy and is not meant 
to be precise or inclusive of all the company’s inputs and outputs. Please see the 2014 Duke Energy Annual Report Form 10-K for detailed notes and further explanations of financial information and this Sustainability Report for more social and environmental information.
Changing Customer Expectations
262,900
Distribution Lines
Distribution7.3m
Electric   
Meters6,200
Miles Natural Gas  
Service Lines
500,000
Natural Gas Meters
New technologies mean Duke Energy 
must adjust how it delivers to  
customers – it’s not one-size-fits-all. Evolving Business Model Value Created
Powering lives, supporting people and  
fueling the economy.
99.98%
Reliability6.4m 
Homes
0.9m 
Businesses260m
MWh
~$3.9b
Dividends  
& Interest  for Investors
~$8b
Investment in Communities
~$8.2b
Value to  Suppliers93m
MCF Natural Gas
>$3.7b
Salaries  & Benefits
480k 
Homes
47k 
Businesses
~$1.8b 
Taxes
>$73m  
Philanthrophy
Helped Attract  
Almost $3.6b  
Economic 
Development
Solar  
Panels
Electric 
Vehicles
Energy 
Storage
Energy 
EfficiencyStakeholder Engagement And What Matters Most
The safety and well-being  of our employees, customers and 
communities is at the heart of who we are and what we do.
What Matters Most
In late 2013, Duke Energy began reviewing  
the company’s list of 29 important issues:  
“What Matters Most.” 
Surveys were developed and administered to 
external stakeholders and company management. Meetings were then held to gain further insights on the results. External stakeholders told the 
company how important each issue was to them. 
Duke Energy leaders weighed in on the impact each issue could have on the company and  
its stakeholders.
The safe operation of our system and the 
well-being of our employees, customers and communities are always our highest priorities. However, the relative importance of other issues 
varied among stakeholder groups. What was 
a high priority to some wasn’t as important to others. Since all stakeholders are important, we think that any attempt to prioritize and force rank the important issues wouldn’t accurately reflect 
these varied interests.Also, the list of 29 issues included a combination 
of broad categories – such as “water quality” –  
and narrowly defined industry issues – such as “mountaintop removal coal mining” – which 
created some redundancy across the list and 
confusion for stakeholders. This insight enabled the company to consolidate some of the topics for purposes of characterizing the most important issues for Duke Energy.
The latest “What Matters Most” list is comprised 
of 16 issues. Each is important to stakeholders and to the company. The graphic depicts the relationship among Duke Energy, its stakeholders 
and these important issues as overlapping circles 
within circles. Both the stakeholder groups and the issues are arranged alphabetically to make clear they are all important and interconnected 
while safety, as always, is number one.
.
\ 10 \  DUKE ENERGY   Academia 
 
 
            Trade
         Associations
              Media
  Labor 
  Unions
 Investors        Environmental 
       Advocates                        Employees                        Customers 
    Communities
       Local, State  
         & Federal  
      Government
     Safety 
Risk 
Management
 
 
Reliable  
Energy
Innovative 
Products & 
Services
Diversity & 
InclusionCybersecurity   Customer 
Engagement 
Community  
EngagementClimate  
Change 
  Biodiversity   
 & Habitat  
 ProtectionAir  
    QualityAffordable 
Energy      
      Water     Quality &      
  Availability 
Ethics & 
Compliance
 
  Employee  
   Development  
  & Engagement
    
     Economic 
  Development
Safety Is Our No. 1 Priority
KEY   Our Stakeholders
  What Matters Most
What Matters Most
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 11 /Growth
CustomersImprove the lives of our customers and vitality of  
our communities.Grow and adapt the business and achieve  our financial objectives.
GOALS:  
 Economic Development:  Stimulate growth in our communities and 
help attract at least 40,000 jobs and $10 billion in capital investments 
from 2013 to 2017.  
2014 Status:  Since 2013, Duke Energy helped our communities attract 
more than 25,000 jobs and over $6.5 billion in capital investments to our 
service territories.  
 Total Shareholder Return (TSR):  Outperform other investor-
owned utilities in TSR, annually and over a three-year period, as measured by the Philadelphia Utility Index (UTY).
2014 Status:  Duke Energy achieved a TSR of 26.4%, slightly below 
the UTY return of 28.9%. Over three years, our TSR was 13.1%, 
outperforming the UTY’s 12.5%.
 Renewables:  Own or contract 6,000 MW of wind, solar and  
biomass by 2020.
2014 Status:  As of year-end 2014, Duke Energy owned or had under 
contract more than 3,000 MW of wind, solar and biomass.
 Governance: Keep abreast of developments regarding corporate 
governance principles and recommend internal improvements  
as appropriate.
2014 Status:  In 2014, Duke Energy made these improvements in 
corporate governance practices: 
•   Established ability for shareholders to take action by less than 
unanimous written consent
•   Established ability for shareholders to call a special  
shareholder meeting
•  Implemented a shareholder engagement program
•  Put systems in place for robust governance of political activities
 Transparency:  Achieve top-quartile performance in disclosure, as 
measured by Bloomberg Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Disclosure Scores for our industry.
2014 Status:  As of December 15, 2014, Duke Energy had a  
Bloomberg ESG Disclosure Score of 66.8, the highest score among  
our peer U.S. utilities.GOALS:  
 Affordable Energy:  Maintain rates lower than the national average.
2014 Status:  Duke Energy’s rates were lower than the national averages 
for the three customer categories (residential, commercial and industrial) in all six states we serve.
 Energy Efficiency:  Achieve a cumulative reduction in customer 
energy consumption of 15,000 GWh (equivalent to the annual usage of 1.25 million homes) by 2020.
2014 Status:  As of year-end 2014, energy consumption was reduced by 
more than 8,000 GWh.
 Energy Efficiency:  Achieve a cumulative reduction in peak demand 
of 4,800 MW (equivalent to eight 600-MW power plants) by 2020.2014 Status:  As of year-end 2014, peak demand was reduced by nearly 
3,800 MW.
Potential changes in state energy efficiency requirements may have an 
impact on our future energy efficiency goals.
 Charitable Giving:  Continue to engage key community partners to 
measure the number of lives positively affected by our grants.
2014 Status:  We continued our engagement with community partners 
to measure our impact on communities. Through this engagement 
we evaluated 10 of our most significant recent grants, totaling over $530,000, and learned that over 680,000 lives are being positively affected by the projects these grants support.
New Goal:  During 2015, develop and launch a strategic philanthropy and 
volunteerism initiative for our communities and employees.
 Community Leader Ratings: During 2014, conduct a community 
leader study across all of our service territories, to establish baseline performance.
2014 Status:  The Community Leader Study was launched and achieved 
relatively high response rates. Community Leaders reported overall 
satisfaction ratings in the 80-95% range for all Duke Energy jurisdictions but Florida (72%). Results showed high satisfaction with our reliable 
service and community support activities. Areas for improvement  
included environmental performance and the need for more proactive communications with the communities served.
1
 2Our Sustainability Plan And Goals
\ 12 \  DUKE ENERGY      Additional content online at 
sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com.
PROGRESS  
KEY  Achieved or on track
  Currently not on track
  Goal not achieved
Operations
Employees
Excel in safety, operational performance and  
environmental stewardship.Develop and engage employees and strengthen leadership.
GOALS:  
 Safety:  Achieve zero work-related fatalities.
2014 Status:  Tragically, three employees and 
one contractor lost their lives on the job in 2014.
 Safety:  Achieve top-decile safety 
performance in employee Total Incident Case 
Rate (TICR) by 2015.
2014 Status:  We improved employee TICR to 
0.58 in 2014 from 0.62 in 2013, and were in the 
top decile of our industry peers in 2013 (when latest industry data were available).
 Reliable Energy:  During 2014, maintain 
the high reliability of our generation fleet with a nuclear capacity factor of at least 93.3%, 
regulated fossil commercial availability of  
at least 86.5%, and nonregulated fossil commercial availability and renewables yield  of at least 92.0%.
2014 Status:  The generation fleets performed 
well, consistently meeting customer demand, but 
did not achieve these aggressive goals. Nuclear capacity factor improved to nearly 93.2%, up 
from 2013, but just shy of the goal. Regulated 
fossil commercial availability improved to 85.9%, and nonregulated fossil commercial availability and renewables yield was 88.9%.
 Reliable Energy:  During 2014, maintain the 
high reliability of our distribution system with an average number of outages* of 1.15 or less, and 
an average time without power* of 126 minutes 
or less. 
2014 Status:  Average number of outages was 
1.13, and average time without power was  
123 minutes.
* Outages longer than 5 minutes, per customer Carbon*: Reduce or offset carbon dioxide 
(CO 2) emissions from our generation fleet 17% 
from 2005 emissions by 2020 (i.e., go from 169 
million tons in 2005 to 141 million tons in 2020).
2014 Status:  Our generation fleet emitted about 
138 million tons of CO 2, lower than our 2020 
goal for the third straight year. Current forecasts 
indicate that CO 2 emissions could slightly exceed 
141 million tons in 2020.
 Carbon*: Reduce the carbon intensity 
(pounds of CO 2 emitted per net kilowatt-hour 
(kWh) of electricity produced) of our generation fleet from 1.28 in 2005 to 0.94 by 2020.
2014 Status:  Generation carbon intensity 
increased from 1.05 in 2013 to 1.06 in 2014.
*  We plan to reassess our carbon goals in 2015 based on 
U.S. EPA regulations.
 Solid Waste:  Increase the percentage of 
solid waste that is recycled from 69% in 2013 to 
80% in 2018. (This goal excludes Duke Energy 
International and Duke Energy Renewables.)
2014 Status:  Approximately 71% of solid waste 
produced was recycled.
 Coal Ash Management:  During 2014:  
1) conduct an engineering review of the company’s  
ash management practices to identify potential 
opportunities for improvement, and 2) develop a 
long-term strategy to manage the closure of coal ash basins across our system .
2014 Status:  The engineering review was 
completed. A proposed long-term closure strategy was developed, with  implementation subject to regulatory approval.
New Goal:  Develop detailed engineering closure 
plans for all coal ash sites by mid-2016.GOALS:  
 Employee Engagement:  Maintain 
management and employee engagement  scores of 75% and 65%, respectively, or higher, 
measured by favorable responses to  
survey questions.
2014 Status:  Management and employee 
engagement were 79.4% and 72.3%, 
respectively.
New Goal:  Develop tools to support 
performance accountability through  
greater emphasis on effective  
performance management.
New Goal:  Advance the focus on diversity 
hiring, retention, and increasing diversity in  
the leadership pipeline.
3
 4
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 13 /Offering Convenience, Choice And 
Control Through Energy- And Money-Saving Customer Programs
Weather highs and lows in 2014 demonstrated 
the importance of the energy efficiency programs we offer to help customers save energy and money.
Since 2006, more than 57,900 customers 
across 96 communities have received energy efficiency improvements through our Residential Neighborhood and Neighborhood Energy  
Saver programs.
Replacing inefficient light bulbs continues to 
be a simple way to curb energy use while reaping environmental benefits. We have 
distributed nearly 61 million energy-efficient 
bulbs throughout our service areas. That’s enough energy saved to power nearly 192,000 homes and offset the carbon output of 352,000 
passenger cars. Lighting savings are just a click 
away for select customers through the online Duke Energy Savings Store and free compact fluorescent light (CFL) program for eligible residential customers.
Customers in Ohio can now manage their home 
energy use anytime, anywhere through the new HoM™ Energy Manager system. Eligible customers get free installed Internet-accessible 
thermostats and a mobile application, which 
programs their thermostats securely from a PC, tablet or smart phone. They can also see their energy-use history, get customized tips to help save energy and more. 
Options to make adoption of energy-saving 
habits seamless and affordable are also available to Duke Energy’s business and institutional customers through turnkey outdoor lighting 
solutions, energy assessments, incentive rebates 
and other programs.  
More information about energy- and money-
saving programs are available in the “Save Energy 
& Money” section of duke-energy.com. 
Now Showing: Energy Efficiency On 
Tour At A School Near You 
For the fourth consecutive year, Duke Energy’s 
Energy Education in Schools program taught thousands of middle and elementary school 
students across the company’s service territories 
how and why to use energy wisely.
Drawing on zany characters and improvisational 
comedy, the program’s centerpiece is a live 
theatrical production delivered by professional 
actors to students in kindergarten through eighth grade. Every student who attends a performance also receives a workbook of project-based 
assignments, including take-home work designed 
to engage parents.
2014 Highlights
 Created the $10 million Carolinas Water Resources Fund to support projects 
benefiting waterways and communities in the Carolinas and downstream from Duke Energy’s Carolinas operations  
 Since 2006, more than 57,900 customers across 96 communities have received energy efficiency improvements through the Residential Neighborhood and Neighborhood Energy Saver programs 
Challenges
 Improve customer satisfaction by demonstrating our commitment to improving their experience with the company
Opportunities
 Develop more programs that give our customers greater control, choice  and convenience 
1 
Customers
Improve the lives of  
our customers and vitality  
of our communities
\ 14 \  DUKE ENERGY   Residential Commercial Industrial
Notes: Residential typical bill based on 1,000 kWh per month usage. Commercial typical bill based on 40 kW demand and 14,000 kWh per month usage. Industrial typical bill based 
on 1,000 kW demand and 400,000 kWh per month usage.
Source: Edison Electric Institute Typical Bills and Average Rates Reports, Summer 2014 (latest available). The effective date of the base rate increase for Duke Energy Carolinas 
(South Carolina) occurred after July 1, 2014, therefore the source does not reflect that 2.6% increase.
DUKE ENERGY’S REGULATED RATES
In effect as of July 1, 2014 (cents per kilowatt-hour)
U.S. Average 13.81
U.S. Average 11.98
Duke Energy FloridaDuke Energy Carolinas - NC
Duke Energy IndianaDuke Energy OhioDuke Energy Progress - NCDuke Energy Progress - SC
Duke Energy KentuckyDuke Energy Carolinas - SC7.75
7.89
8.01
8.28
8.30
8.76
9.03
9.59U.S. Average 10.26Duke Energy FloridaDuke Energy IndianaDuke Energy OhioDuke Energy Progress - NCDuke Energy Carolinas - SCDuke Energy Carolinas - NCDuke Energy Progress - SCDuke Energy Kentucky
Duke Energy FloridaDuke Energy Progress - SC
Duke Energy OhioDuke Energy IndianaDuke Energy Carolinas - SCDuke Energy Carolinas - NC
Duke Energy Progress - NCDuke Energy Kentucky9.19
10.64
10.70
11.05
11.31
12.15
12.39
12.53
7.94
7.96
8.20
8.79
8.84
9.61
9.90
10.22
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 15 /In the spring of 2015, Energy Education in 
Schools will expand to include Duke Energy Progress in the eastern parts of North Carolina 
and South Carolina and the company’s service  
areas in Indiana.
Satisfaction Scores Improve;  
Rankings Still Sluggish
Although customer satisfaction scores mostly 
improved in 2014, Duke Energy’s rankings  
were mixed, with many lower than acceptable  
to us. Events such as the Dan River coal ash  
spill and billing system problems had an effect  
on the rankings.
Lloyd Yates | Executive Vice President, Market Solutions; President, Carolinas
Parents are encouraged to participate by ordering a free energy efficiency starter kit. By requesting the kit, families and schools are automatically 
entered into a contest for a chance to win  
cash prizes.
We have partnered with The National Theatre for 
Children since 2011 to offer this free program.
Schools in North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio 
and Kentucky served by Duke Energy have been eligible to participate. More than 1 million students across these service areas have seen a 
performance since the program was launched.
$73.4 m
TOTAL 
CHARITABLE GIVING  $26.5m
Duke Energy Foundation$35.2m
Other company cash 
contributions and in-kind
2 gifts and services$6.8m
Cash contributions from employees and retirees$4.8m
Estimated value of volunteers’ time 
1  Total does not add up exactly because of rounding.
2  Payment made in the form of goods and services instead of money.
2014 CHARITABLE GIVING1
\ 16 \  DUKE ENERGY   Business customers:  Large business customers 
continue to give Duke Energy high marks for the 
service they receive, with 90 percent “highly 
satisfied” with Duke Energy as their utility.
Overall satisfaction scores improved for all four 
Duke Energy companies in the 2015 J.D. Power business survey – but no Duke Energy company 
placed higher than third quartile nationally. 
   Duke Energy Carolinas was up 12 points to a 
score of 678.
   Duke Energy Midwest was up 10 points to 676. 
   Duke Energy Progress was up 8 points to 672. 
   Duke Energy Florida was up 12 points to 667, 
its highest score in more than seven years. 
This study rates companies on six factors: power quality and reliability, billing and payment, corporate citizenship, price, communications and customer service.
Residential customers: More than 80 percent 
of our residential customers were highly satisfied 
with their service from Duke Energy. But satisfaction scores were mixed across our four operating companies in the J.D. Power residential 
survey. Again, no Duke Energy company finished 
in the top quartile nationally.
   Duke Energy Midwest was up 13 points to 644, placing it in the second quartile nationally among all large utilities. 
\ Connected \  
Customers Come First
“At Duke Energy, we are determined to focus on operational excellence. Whether it’s responding to a power outage or handling a routine phone call, customers need and expect us to be there and deliver. We also need to see our business through the customer lens – devising products and services to better meet what people want from Duke Energy. It’s our challenge to create more customer-focused solutions that lead to a  better overall service experience.  I am excited by that opportunity.”   Duke Energy Carolinas was down 15 points to 
641, landing in the third quartile nationally. 
   Duke Energy Progress was down 3 points to  
637, also finishing in the third quartile nationally. 
   Duke Energy Florida reversed a three-year upward trend, falling 10 points to 610 and placing it in the fourth quartile nationally. 
$10 Million Investment To Benefit 
Communities By Protecting Waterways
Duke Energy is dedicated to being a good neighbor  
and is committed to protecting, improving and 
restoring waterways – we know high-quality 
rivers, streams and lakes are important to the 
long-term success of communities.
The company created the Duke Energy Water 
Resources Fund and is investing $10 million  
for projects benefiting waterways in the  
Carolinas and downstream from Duke Energy’s Carolinas operations. 
“Our new Water Resources Fund reflects  
Duke Energy’s commitment to serving our  
local communities and producing and  
delivering energy in ways that protect the  
health of the environment,” said Lynn Good, 
Duke Energy’s vice chairman, president and  
chief executive officer. 
The fund includes a $1.5 million designation for 
projects in the Dan River Basin Region. These 
projects can benefit waterways or help develop 
the region’s economic and community vitality.
Regional nonprofit and local government partners 
with relevant projects are eligible for funding. 
The fund is managed by the North Carolina 
Community Foundation. Project selection and funding decisions are made by a committee composed of Duke Energy representatives and external environmental experts from universities 
and communities in the Carolinas.  
Safer, Brighter Streets For  
The University Of Cincinnati 
What travels faster than a speeding bullet, shines 
bright like the Bat Signal and swoops down from the sky to deter crime? Not a superhero – rather 
it’s the super power of vivid, crisp, white light 
from new light-emitting diode (LED) streetlights  
in Cincinnati, Ohio.UC Lighting Project  
LED lighting makes the University of Cincinnati community safer  
and brighter. 
(Before) upper photo, 
(After) lower photo.
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 17 /matched $5 million to support their  
giving, including:
   Matching gifts for employee and retiree 
donations to qualifying nonprofit organizations increased by 22 percent from 2013
   Matching funds for employee donations as result of Duke Energy’s United Way and community arts campaigns totaled over  
$2 million 
   Volunteer grants to support employee and retiree projects ranging from environmental sweat equity projects to grants supporting 
employees serving in leadership positions on 
local boards 
Our energy assistance programs help those in need cope with extreme heat and cold. 
In 2014:
   In the Midwest, the company contributed 
about $1.2 million to three programs to assist low-income customers with winter heating bills –  
HeatShare in Ohio, WinterCare in Kentucky and Helping Hand in Indiana.
   In the Carolinas and Florida, the Duke Energy Foundation contributed nearly $2.5 million to  
similar programs. Share the Warmth and the  
Energy Neighbor Fund help low-income families  
with winter heating bills. Another program, Cooling Assistance, assists handicapped, elderly and low-income customers.
Volunteerism  
Duke Energy employees giving time to their 
communities is a 
common sight
\ Connected \  
Growing The Electric Grid
“I see the electric grid growing in importance over the next several years. Duke Energy will invest billions of dollars to develop advanced systems to identify and solve issues faster and provide customers with better and more timely information. The grid must not only be more efficient, it must also be more resilient. In today’s world, the threat of cyberattacks and physical attacks must not stop the grid from doing  its No. 1 job: Powering the lives of  our customers.”Duke Energy teamed with the city and its 
namesake university to improve street lighting around the urban campus. This was part of the 
University of Cincinnati’s strategy to increase 
visibility and, ultimately, foster a safer community. 
Duke Energy’s outdoor lighting specialists 
worked to understand the needs of the city and 
university, and developed a far-reaching plan to 
significantly reshape the community’s profile  
after dark. 
In 2014, we replaced 158 high-pressure sodium 
(HPS) streetlights with LEDs, and installed an 
additional 186 LED fixtures around campus.  
A second phase of the project is being planned, with the potential to install or add 380 more 
LEDs in 2015.
The benefits are clear: Compared to HPS fixtures 
and bulbs, LEDs consume less energy, have a longer life expectancy, provide better light 
coverage and color and reduce glare. Combined 
with other initiatives, the new LED streetlights  
will help the University of Cincinnati meet  
its safety goals and positively impact the university’s students, faculty and staff and  
the surrounding community. 
A Needed Assist To Power  
Our Communities
At the core of Duke Energy’s culture is giving back. Charitable giving increased in 2014, exceeding $73 million. Community support 
included funding from the Duke Energy 
Foundation, company donations, employee and retiree gifts, and the value of volunteer hours.
The Duke Energy Foundation reviews funding 
requests at the regional level and targets 
investments in areas where we believe the company can have the greatest impact on the well-being of our communities. Among them:
   Education – STEM and early childhood literacy
   Economic and workforce development
   Environment
   Community impact and cultural enrichment
Our Employees And Retirees Give Generously
Employees and retirees continue to step up.  
In 2014, they increased individual donations 
giving over $6.8 million. As a result of these contributions the Duke Energy Foundation 
\ 18 \  DUKE ENERGY   Strengthening Supplier Diversity
Duke Energy makes sure diverse suppliers know 
which doors to knock on and how to establish sustainable relationships with the company. Not 
only that, Duke Energy shows other utilities how 
to do the same.
In 2014, Duke Energy held business summits 
in Ohio and South Carolina – bringing together 
diverse suppliers and utilities to lay the foundation 
for how suppliers can succeed in the energy industry. Duke Energy held smaller forums in Indiana and Florida. These forums open new 
doors for women-, minority- and veteran-owned 
businesses as well as businesses in Historically Underutilized Business Zones – highlighting their products and services to potential customers within Duke Energy and other utilities.
The end result is a better educated, diverse 
business community that has an understanding 
of the energy industry. Other utilities are also 
encouraged to adopt similar strategies that have been successful at Duke Energy.
Duke Energy’s supplier diversity initiatives 
received several recognitions in 2014, including:
   The 2014 Edison Electric Institute’s Supplier 
Diversity Innovator of the Year Award
   The Central North Florida Minority Supplier Development Council’s CEO of the Year Award –  
accepted by Duke Energy Florida State 
President Alex Glenn 
Keith Trent | Executive Vice President, Grid Solutions, President, Midwest and Florida Regions
DIVERSE SUPPLIER SPENDING  (IN MILLIONS)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Spending with Tier I diverse suppliers1$398 $487 $725 $691 $578
Spending with Tier II diverse suppliers2$167 $211 $212 $212 $412
Total $565 $698 $937 $903 $990
1 Tier I represents direct purchases from diverse suppliers.
2  Tier II consists of diverse businesses working with Tier I suppliers and are reported like subcontractors to Duke Energy.
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 19 /2014 Highlights
 Announced $500 million solar expansion program in North Carolina
 Helped attract 85 new and expanding businesses across a wide diversity  
of industries, bringing 11,400 jobs to our six-state service territory
 Announced the sale of our Commercial Midwest Generation assets
 Announced the joint venture with Dominion, Piedmont Natural Gas and AGL  to build the Atlantic Coast Pipeline
Challenges
 Meet our target growth rate of 4 to 6 percent in the face of stagnant load growth
Opportunities
 Take advantage of changing technologies and customer expectations to find  new ways to grow our businesses
Financial Stability = Sustainability
In 2014, the company achieved adjusted 
diluted earnings per share of $4.55, which was within the company’s $4.50 to $4.65 earnings 
guidance to Wall Street. 
One of Duke Energy’s primary goals as a 
sustainable company is delivering attractive returns for its investors. As part of those efforts, 
the company increased its quarterly dividend by 
about 1.9 percent in 2014, the 88th consecutive year the company has paid a quarterly dividend on its common stock. 
Duke Energy’s total shareholder return – the 
change in stock price plus dividends – for 2014 was approximately 26.4 percent. This was below the approximately 28.9 percent return of 
the Philadelphia Utility Index (20 U.S. utilities) 
during the same period. However, Duke Energy outperformed the S&P 500’s total shareholder return of approximately 13.7 percent.
The company’s balance sheet and credit ratings 
remain strong, allowing Duke Energy to invest in its business without the need for new equity issuances through 2017.
Duke Energy remains on track to achieve long-
term average annual growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share of between 4 to 6 percent from a 2013 base through 2017. See the Financial Highlights table on Page 22.Committed To The Economic Vitality  
Of Our Communities
In 2014, the Duke Energy Economic Development Team saw real evidence of an improving national economy with an increase 
in new jobs and investments across our entire 
service territory. Working with state and local partners, we helped attract 85 new and expanding businesses across a wide diversity 
of industries for almost $3.6 billion in capital 
investments. Over 11,400 new jobs were created across our six-state footprint. 
Advanced manufacturing continues to be an 
important contributor to the economy in many 
of our states, particularly in Indiana and the Carolinas. But we pursued a diverse mix of other project opportunities, including automotive, aerospace, textile and data centers. 
For more than 100 years, Duke Energy has 
invested in responsible growth and community development, earning a national reputation for its work. The September 2014 edition of Site 
Selection magazine again named Duke Energy 
to its annual list of Top Utilities in Economic Development for 2014. The company has been on the list more than a dozen times.
A cornerstone of our economic development 
efforts is the Site Readiness Program. The program assists local communities by bringing in a nationally recognized consultant to evaluate 
2 
Growth
Grow and adapt  
the business and achieve  
our financial objectives
\ 20 \  DUKE ENERGY   selected sites and provide recommendations  
for improvements to attract future industries.  
In 2014, 22 properties were evaluated to  
prepare them for potential industrial development. 
Since the program’s inception in 2005,  
16 Site Readiness properties have won  
large industrial projects.
Breakdown By States
North Carolina: Duke Energy’s North Carolina 
Economic Development Team continued its string of successful recruiting years by helping to bring 
in about $1.1 billion in capital investments and 
more than 4,100 jobs. Gildan Textiles, Clearwater Paper and TransCarolina Products are notable examples of new investment brought to the state.
The company also helped lead the transition of 
economic development recruiting efforts from the North Carolina Department of Commerce to the Economic Development Partnership of 
North Carolina, a new public-private partnership. 
The partnership will oversee the state’s efforts in economic development, international trade, tourism, film and sports development.
South Carolina: South Carolina is leading the 
Southeast in manufacturing job growth spurred on by Duke Energy’s business recruiting efforts. In 2014, Duke Energy was involved in projects that produced about $1.5 billion in capital investments 
and over 2,000 new jobs. New businesses 
brought to the state include Toray Industries, Trelleborg, Precorp and Apex Tool.\ Connected \  
Making The Electric Grid Better
The electric grid is amazing. Those wires running down the street or underground in your neighborhood are responsible for delivering more than $350 billion in electricity sales in the U.S. each year.
It’s also operated mainly by hardware, telecommunications 
and software platforms that don’t talk to each other – perhaps making it more expensive to run than it should be. Just like a laptop can operate with devices interchangeably, the electrical grid of the future needs to be able to exchange data with different devices from many manufacturers. Duke Energy is leading an effort to make that happen, which should help control costs and improve reliability.
Two years ago, Jason Handley and Stuart Laval from our 
Emerging Technology Office recruited a small group of companies to form the Coalition of the Willing. Its mission was to prove that multiple companies could work together on grid technology that didn’t depend on the proprietary protocols.
Adopting open standards sounds easy, but many companies 
were reluctant at first to participate. However, after showcasing a “proof of concept” design at a large industry conference in 2014, interest in the effort has picked up.
Today, more than 25 major manufacturers have joined the 
coalition. There’s still plenty of work to do. But the end result could be an electric grid that is simpler to operate, less costly and a better value for customers.Stuart Laval and Jason Handley  | Emerging Technology Office
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 21 /Ohio/Kentucky: After several years of little 
private investment in downtown centers, 
new private development in Duke Energy’s 
urban cores was the lead story in 2014. The 
Duke Energy Economic Development Team worked collaboratively with the Duke Energy Foundation to find real estate development and 
redevelopment investment opportunities in urban 
neighborhoods. Major successes include the General Motors office complex and Mercy Health. 
Industrial activity also continued at an 
active pace as Duke Energy helped increase 
capital investment by $173 million, bringing approximately 1,940 jobs to Ohio and Kentucky. Notable investments include UGN, an international auto component manufacturer 
in Ohio, and the eBay Enterprises regional 
distribution center in Northern Kentucky. 
Florida: The Duke Energy Florida Economic 
Development Team doubled its size and redefined 
its focus with a strategy that called for early 
engagement in efforts to bring new investments to the state. The hard work resulted in 12 new or existing companies selecting Duke Energy’s 
Florida service territory in 2014, more than 
doubling last year’s results and surpassing the company’s stretch goals. These projects represent $122 million in capital investments and more than 850 new jobs for Florida. Indiana: In partnership with economic 
development officials throughout the state, Duke Energy’s Economic Development Team 
was instrumental in bringing commitments of 
approximately $576 million in capital investments and over 2,400 jobs to Indiana. Duke Energy worked with eight existing customers, primarily 
in the manufacturing sector, as well as nine new 
companies that now call Indiana home. 
Renewable Energy Continues To Grow
Duke Energy continues to make great strides at expanding renewable energy.
Regulated Portfolio: The company’s  
regulated business continues to pursue large-
scale renewable projects, which spur economic development in the regions we serve. For example:
   In September, we announced a $500 million solar expansion in North Carolina to own and operate three large-scale projects and enter 
into power purchase agreements with five 
other large-scale projects. 
   Early in 2015, Duke Energy announced  
a 13-MW solar facility at Marine Corps  
Base Camp Lejeune in North Carolina –  
the company’s first at a military base. With Duke Energy’s help, North Carolina is now fourth in the nation for installed solar power.
   In Indiana, the company signed four power purchase agreements for 20 MW of large-scale solar – a first for Duke Energy in that state.(In millions, except per-share data)1, 22014 2013 32012 3,4
Total operating revenues $23,925 $22,756 $17,912
Net income attributable to Duke Energy $1,883 $2,665 $1,768
Reported diluted earnings per share $2.66 $3.76 $3.07
Adjusted diluted earnings per share $4.55 $4.36 $4.33
Dividends per share $3.15 $3.09 $3.03
Total assets $120,709 $114,779 $113,856
Long-term debt including capital leases and redeemable preferred stock of subsidiaries,  
less current maturities $37,213 $38,152 $36,444
1  See the 2014 Duke Energy Annual Report/Form 10-K for detailed notes and further explanations.
2   On July 2, 2012, immediately prior to the merger with Progress Energy, Duke Energy executed a one-for-three reverse stock split. All share and earnings per share amounts are presented as if the 
one-for-three reverse stock split had been effective at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
3  Operating results reflect reclassifications due to the impact of discontinued operations.
4   Beginning on July 2, 2012, as a result of the merger with Progress Energy, amounts related to Progress Energy, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida are included in Duke Energy’s consolidated 
financial information.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS1, 2
\ 22 \  DUKE ENERGY   Emily Felt | Wholesale Renewable Manager
Across all jurisdictions, we continue to work 
with regulators and diverse stakeholder groups to develop policies that promote growth of 
renewables with sustainable electricity rates  
for our customers. In South Carolina, the 
company was a key part of helping achieve comprehensive solar legislation and we are 
proposing solar programs for our residential  
and non-residential customers. 
Duke Energy is also pursuing partnerships that 
advance research and education. In Florida, we 
have been partnering with universities to install 
solar systems. Since 2003, we have funded more than $6 million for solar installations at more than 45 schools and universities.
Commercial Portfolio:  Duke Energy’s 
commercial portfolio, operating in areas outside 
of the company’s regulated footprint, continues to provide growth opportunities. Today, Duke Energy Renewables (DER) owns around 1,700 
MW of wind power and 150 MW of solar power 
operating in 12 states. DER brought on about 100 MW of new solar capacity in 2014 – making an overall total of nearly 1,900 MW for the 
unregulated business. DER sells the electricity 
and renewable energy certificates (RECs) from these facilities to its customers.
DER also has three wind power projects 
underway in Texas that will add more than  
500 MW of emissions-free electricity to the 
company’s renewables portfolio. These projects generate the majority of their power during the day, when customer demand is greatest. With completion dates of mid-2015 into mid-2016, 
the Los Vientos III, IV and V wind projects can 
collectively power about 150,000 homes. 
One innovative project for DER in 2014 was a  
52-MW solar facility that will sell power to George 
Washington University, American University, 
and George Washington University Hospital. The project will allow these customers to reduce their energy costs and meet their sustainability goals.
Duke Energy Announces Sale Of  
Nonregulated Midwest Power Plants
Duke Energy announced it would sell its non-regulated Midwest Commercial Generation Business to Houston-based Dynegy for  
$2.8 billion in cash.
The sale which closed in April 2015, included  
Duke Energy’s ownership interest in 11 power 
plants, plus the company’s competitive retail 
business in Ohio – Duke Energy Retail Sales.
“These power plants have been important to 
Duke Energy and our Midwest customers for many years, and I’m proud of the employees 
who have operated these plants well during 
challenging market conditions,” said Lynn Good, vice chairman, president and chief  
executive officer.
\ Connected \  
A Future In Solar Energy 
“Solar energy is part of my family’s future – and our customers’ future. To ensure it’s part of our shareholders’ future, we have to  bring solar into our business, financially and operationally. That  is the work I get to do every day.”
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 23 /Although these are valuable assets, they are no 
longer a good fit for Duke Energy. Being in a competitive market means that earnings from the 
plants can be volatile; the company’s investors 
prefer more predictable earnings. 
The total generation capacity owned by Duke 
Energy in the 11 plants was about 5,900 MW. 
Nine of the plants are in Ohio; one is in Illinois 
and one is in Pennsylvania. The plants dispatch electricity into the PJM wholesale power market.
Duke Energy’s regulated utilities in Ohio, Kentucky 
and Indiana, including its regulated generation in 
Indiana and Kentucky, are not part of the sale.
New Natural Gas Pipeline 
Duke Energy and three other utilities announced plans to build a 550-mile interstate natural gas pipeline – the Atlantic Coast Pipeline – from West 
Virginia to North Carolina to fuel new natural gas-
fired power plants that are replacing older, higher-emission coal-fired plants. Although there will be environmental impacts during construction of the 
pipeline, our siting process is working to minimize 
them. Plus, natural gas plants release far fewer greenhouse gases and other air emissions than do conventional coal plants, creating long-term environmental benefits. 
The pipeline will also serve as a key infrastructure 
engine to drive economic development and create jobs, helping counties along its route attract new, energy-dependent businesses and industries. 
It will also increase natural gas transportation 
options available to the Southeast, reducing risks of supply interruptions.The pipeline has an estimated cost of between $4.5 billion and $5 billion, an initial capacity of 
1.5 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day, and 
a target in-service date of late 2018. The project requires federal approval, which the pipeline’s owners seek to secure by mid-2016.
Duke Energy will own 40 percent of the pipeline; 
Dominion, 45 percent; Piedmont Natural Gas, 10 percent; and AGL Resources, 5 percent. The pipeline’s main customers will be six utilities, 
including the two Duke Energy utilities that serve 
the Carolinas.
We increasingly rely on natural gas to generate 
electricity after closing half of our 14 coal plants in 
North Carolina during the past four years. We have 
opened five natural gas plants in North Carolina since 2011 and plan to open a natural gas plant  
in South Carolina in 2017.
In recent years, extremely cold winter 
temperatures – resulting in high natural gas demand and prices – have further underscored the national need for more natural gas pipelines.
Political Engagement To Promote 
Responsible Public Policy
Duke Energy actively participates in the political  
process to ensure that local, state and federal 
lawmakers understand and consider the interests  
of the company, its customers, employees, shareholders, communities and other stakeholders. 
Duke Energy provides technical expertise on 
potential costs and impacts of proposed legislation 
to help lawmakers make informed decisions.  
\ 24 \  DUKE ENERGY   We regularly benchmark Duke Energy’s corporate governance practices with other best-in-class companies and peers. Below are the risk ratings 
for Duke Energy provided by ISS, a leading corporate governance advisory service to the financial community. Duke Energy’s overall ISS Governance QuickScore, as of March 1, 2015, was 1, the lowest (best) relative risk ranking ISS issues.
ISS Governance QuickScore
2012 2013 2014 1Scales
Board structure 2 5 1 Relative risk:
 1 = Lowest 2
10 = HighestCompensation 5 4 1
Shareholder rights 6 5 4
Audit 1 1 2
1 As of March 1, 2015. Published with permission of ISS. 
2 Reflects best rating.
GOVERNANCE RATINGS1
In 2014, the company spent almost $7.3 million on reportable lobbying expenses (e.g., office space, salaries, consulting fees, event fees,  
etc.) at the federal and state levels to promote appropriate and responsible public policies. 
That amount includes nearly $900,000 in 
trade association dues used for policy research, 
information gathering and federal lobbying. 
In 2014, Duke Energy also contributed 
approximately $3.1 million to political organizations, such as the Republican and 
Democratic governors associations, that  
advocate for issues and mobilize voters but  
do not directly support or oppose candidates. 
The company is legally prohibited from making 
direct contributions to candidates for U.S. federal 
political offices. It is similarly prohibited from making direct contributions to candidates for state offices in certain states. In 2014, in states where 
corporate contributions are allowed, Duke Energy 
gave nearly $1 million to support candidates, political parties and other political organizations and activities. 
Duke Energy’s Political Activity Policy addresses 
company compliance with laws and regulations governing political contributions, government contacts and lobbying activities. Employee Participation: Many Duke Energy employees participate in the political process through DUKEPAC and Voices In Politics. 
DUKEPAC is a voluntary, nonpartisan political 
action committee that contributes to federal and state candidates. The committee pools employee contributions to support political candidates who, 
if elected, might be involved in legislation that 
could have an impact on Duke Energy employees, customers, shareholders, the communities it serves and other stakeholders. 
Such legislation could involve utility industry 
structure; nuclear, coal, natural gas, hydro, wind or solar electricity generation; energy efficiency; environmental issues; tax reform or employee 
benefits (e.g., health insurance). DUKEPAC  
contributed $1.5 million to state and federal 
candidates and political organizations in 2014. 
Voices In Politics is Duke Energy’s grassroots 
education and advocacy network. It briefs 
employees on political issues and encourages them to actively support or oppose legislation  
that could affect the company. The network  
issues occasional “calls to action” regarding 
pending legislative votes that could affect the 
company’s operations.
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 25 /2014 Highlights
 Decreased both our Total Incident Case Rate (TICR), which we use to compare 
our safety performance to that of other large utilities, and OSHA recordable injuries in comparison to 2013
 The nuclear fleet’s capacity factor exceeded 90 percent for the 16th straight year  
Challenges
 Develop and implement detailed plans for closing ash basins that  meet stakeholder expectations while also complying with state and  federal requirements
 Ensure safe operations in all aspects of our business to prevent additional fatalities; ensure all our employees and contractors make it home safely every night and ensure public safety 
Opportunities
 Increase our focus on operational excellence to reduce environmental impacts and increase efficiency 
Safety: When Numbers Don’t Tell  
The Whole Story
Numbers don’t always tell the whole story. When 
you look at our injury rate, 2014 was our best year on record for decreasing our TICR, which we 
use to compare our safety performance to that 
of other large utilities. We also decreased OSHA recordable injuries by 11 percent from 2013.
However, Chris Dasher, Mike Davis, Keith Jester  
and David Pate – all Duke Energy colleagues –  
lost their lives on the job last year. We will 
continue to investigate and understand why accidents occur, and learn from these 
experiences to prevent situations that might  
result in serious injuries or fatalities, near-miss 
events and operational errors in the future.
2014 was one of the worst years we’ve 
experienced in fatalities. We must do better.
Every day, many of our teammates work to 
address hazardous situations by managing risks to provide essential services to our customers 
and communities. In 2015, every member of 
our team will work harder to make sure every teammate, whether employee or contractor, returns home to his or her family every day.  
This will take resolve, tenacity and courage. 
We must remember every day why we are here –  
to deliver an energy experience our customers 
value and trust. People count on us to be safe, and nothing will take precedence over that.  We must be proactive in identifying risks 
and taking action before injuries occur to our 
employees and contractors, using the tools and processes in place to do so.
We can’t turn back the clock, but as a company, 
we will work together to make 2015 truly the  
best ever for safety. See page 30 for our 2014 
safety statistics. 
Climate Change 
Duke Energy supports climate change policies that will result in reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at achievable rates over time 
while balancing impacts to our customers’ rates, 
the economies of our service territories and the reliability that our customers count on. 
We have taken a number of significant actions 
that have reduced our CO
2 emissions. Clean, 
innovative, natural gas plants are being built and 
many older, less efficient generating units have 
been retired (with plans to close more in the 
future). The company also offers its customers a variety of energy efficiency and conservation programs to help them reduce their electricity 
consumption in a cost-effective manner. In 
addition, Duke Energy continues to add wind  
and solar power to its generation portfolio.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
has proposed regulating CO
2 from new, existing 
and modified or reconstructed fossil fuel plants Excel in safety, operational 
performance and  
environmental stewardship
3 
Operations
\ 26 \  DUKE ENERGY   under section 111 of the Clean Air Act (referred 
to as the Clean Power Plan). Duke Energy thinks that creating a national energy policy would best 
be accomplished through comprehensive federal 
legislation, rather than a regulatory approach like the one proposed in the EPA’s Clean Power Plan. 
Duke Energy established voluntary carbon 
reduction goals in 2010. The goals – which were 
updated in the company’s 2012 Sustainability Report after the merger between Duke Energy and  
Progress Energy – reflect Duke Energy’s aspiration  
to reduce or offset the company’s generation fleet CO
2 emissions by 17 percent below its 2005 
level by 2020. Duke Energy achieved this level of emission reduction earlier than anticipated. 
However, the company’s current forecasts 
suggest it will experience a gradual increase in CO
2 emissions in the years ahead as the 
economy continues to recover and the demand for electricity increases. Fluctuations in fuel prices 
could also contribute to increased emissions.  
Duke Energy will continue to be actively engaged 
in the development of the EPA’s CO
2 regulations 
with the focus on outcomes that are in the best interest of customers and shareholders. The 
company will also continue to modernize its 
generation fleet and implement technologies to improve efficiency, which will help continue to lower CO
2 emissions.\ Connected \  
Insulation Gets More Sustainable
Every five to seven years, the Mayo Plant in North Carolina inspects welds on the plant’s high-temperature piping.
That means taking off the calcium silicate insulation that 
covers 1,100 feet of piping to inspect welds – making sure  the piping will continue to operate safely. 
Ben Carter, high-energy piping engineer, noticed a problem 
over subsequent outages. The traditional calcium silicate insulation crumbled when removed, preventing it from being used again. So after seeing dozens of industrial dumpsters haul away old insulation, he started thinking.
“There had to be a better way,” he said. “We were sending  
too much to the landfill.”
Carter’s idea was to use a new blanket-type material for 
the piping insulation. Piping located inside the plant used a similar product, but it was necessary to modify the installation for piping that was located outdoors. The selected product worked just as well as the old material – was 15 percent less expensive and could be reused after removal. No waste …  no dumpsters heading to the landfill.
So far, the concept is working well. The coal-fired plant 
will continue to test the material for the next two years. If successful, the Mayo Plant will share the technique with other Duke Energy plants. 
The end result could be a less expensive and more 
sustainable way to install insulation at power plants. 
Ben Carter | Welding and High Energy Pipe Engineer
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 27 /Nuclear: Present And Future
Throughout 2014, Duke Energy’s nuclear fleet 
consistently delivered clean, safe, reliable energy to customers – whether during record heat or 
arctic cold. The nuclear fleet set a net generation 
record in 2014 with its 11 operating units producing 87,031,325 megawatt-hours (MWh) of electricity, compared to the previous record in 
2009 of 86,128,459 MWh.
Operating at six sites in the Carolinas, our  
11 reactors set a combined capacity factor 
of 93.18 percent in 2014. This marked the 
16th straight year the fleet achieved a capacity 
factor greater than 90 percent. This high rate of availability keeps a steady supply of power flowing to serve customers.
The three units at Oconee Nuclear Station 
collectively set an all-time capacity factor record during the year at 94.73 percent. Catawba Nuclear Station Unit 1 and McGuire Nuclear Station Unit 2 completed continuous-day 
operating runs of 493 and 474 days, respectively.
To meet future electricity demands, Duke Energy 
continues to pursue combined construction and operating licenses (COLs) from the U.S. Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission for the Lee Nuclear 
Station in Cherokee County, South Carolina  
and a plant in Levy County, Florida.Duke Energy Reduces Emissions, Fuel  
Use With New Coal-Carrying Locomotives
After 50 years of using locomotives to haul coal by rail, Duke Energy has retired three of its older locomotives, replacing them with high-efficiency 
units that are expected to cut emissions at some 
of the company’s largest power plants. 
The new locomotives are now operating at three 
facilities in North Carolina: Marshall Steam 
Station, Asheville Plant and Mayo Steam Plant. 
The new locomotives meet 2015 EPA air quality 
standards. When compared with emissions from the older trains, the new ones reduce nitrogen 
oxide and carbon dioxide emissions by 75 
percent. The machines are quieter, can work by remote control, and are safer and easier to operate. Instead of taking 20 minutes to crank 
up, they each take about 30 seconds.
The Marshall locomotive was purchased with the 
help of a $200,000 grant from the Clean Fuel Advanced Technology project at North Carolina 
Solar Center, a project focused on reducing 
transportation-related emissions in North Carolina counties that have air quality concerns. The others were acquired without assistance.
By mid-2015, four more locomotives will be 
purchased for other facilities – two for Belews Creek, one for Plant Allen and another for Marshall Steam Station. All meet 2015  
EPA Standards. 
Dhiaa Jamil | Executive Vice President and President, Regulated Generation
Marshall’s New TrainHigher efficiency,  
reduced emissions – 
the future of coal-  
carrying locomotives
\ 28 \  DUKE ENERGY   More Power; No Emissions Increase
Wouldn’t it be great if Duke Energy could increase 
the output from its natural gas plants with no increase in emissions?
That’s what happened last year when a system 
upgrade at the Buck Combined Cycle Station in North Carolina improved mass air flow through the machine – resulting in an almost 8 percent 
output increase.
Overall, 26 MW of new power capacity were 
generated. That’s enough power to serve close  
to 25,000 homes.
The upgrade also extended the time between 
maintenance intervals – meaning the plant can  
be on line for longer periods. Buck is one of the most cost-effective plants on the system.  
It operates more than 80 percent of the time.  
The more it is available to be on line, the better  
it is for customers.
Another positive part of the upgrade is that carbon  
dioxide emissions from the plant have stayed 
basically the same from its pre-upgrade levels.
So is Duke Energy expecting to do this again? 
Yes. The Dan River Combined Cycle Station in 
North Carolina, built in 2012, is slated to have 
the same upgrade in 2015. In fact, this type of design may be a permanent part of new gas-fired stations built in the future.
More power with no extra emissions. That’s a 
winner for everyone involved.
COAL PLANT RETIREMENTS
Retired Coal Units1
Location UnitsTotal 
capacity 
(megawatts)Actual  
retirement  
date
Cliffside Steam Station N.C. 1, 2, 3, 4 198 2011
Buck Steam Station N.C. 3, 4 113 2011
Edwardsport Generating Station Ind. 6, 7, 8 160 2011
W.H. Weatherspoon Plant N.C. 1, 2, 3 177 2011
Gallagher Generating Station Ind. 1, 3 2280 2012
Cape Fear Plant N.C. 5, 6 316 2012
Beckjord Station Ohio 1 94 2012
Dan River Steam Station N.C. 1, 2, 3 276 2012
H.F. Lee Plant N.C. 1, 2, 3 382 2012
Robinson Plant S.C. 1 177 2012
Buck Steam Station N.C. 5, 6 256 2013
Riverbend Steam Station N.C. 4, 5, 6, 7 454 2013
Sutton Plant N.C. 1, 2, 3 575 2013
Beckjord Station Ohio 2, 3 222 2013
Beckjord Station Ohio 4, 5, 6 543 2014
W.S. Lee Steam Station S.C. 1, 2 200 2014
Total 4,423
Potential Coal Unit Retirements
Location UnitsTotal 
capacity 
(megawatts)Potential 
retirement  
date
Wabash River  
Generating StationInd.2, 3, 4,  
5, 6668Retire 2-5 by 
2016; suspend 
6 by 2016
W.S. Lee Steam Station S.C. 3 170Convert to 
natural gas or 
retire by 2015
Miami Fort Station Ohio 6 163 2015
Crystal River Energy Center Fla. 1, 2 873 2018
Total 1,874
TOTAL ACTUAL/POTENTIAL RETIREMENTS 6,297
1 In addition to the coal unit retirements, a number of older oil/natural gas generation units have been or  
will be retired.
2 Per 2009 settlement agreement with EPA.\ Connected \  
A Challenging Year
“The past year challenged Duke Energy. Tragically, three Duke Energy employees and a contractor died on the job. Beginning with the ash spill at Dan River in North Carolina, the year continued with additional challenges at our facilities – environmental, operational and safety-related. As regrettable as these events were, they became a trigger for our company – driving us to take unprecedented actions to sharpen our focus on how we operate our business.” 
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 29 /Preserving And Protecting  
Water Resources
Duke Energy relies on water for energy 
production. In 2014, the company’s water consumption was about 357 gallons per net 
MWh of electricity produced. In the states Duke 
Energy serves, the average household uses from 10.74 to 13.56 MWh per year
 (1), which equates 
to about 3,834 to 4,841 gallons of water per year. 
While water consumption for energy production  
is significant, it is only part of a family’s water 
use. The average family of four uses about  
400 gallons of water a day, or 146,000 gallons a year, for household purposes
 (2). Much of 
this household water returns to the source, but typically, approximately 23 percent is consumed
 (3).
Duke Energy is fortunate to operate its U.S. power  
plants in areas with sufficient water resources. This may not always be the case, so the company is protecting and preserving water resources through power plant modernization, energy efficiency efforts and other innovative strategies.
In North Carolina and South Carolina, Duke 
Energy worked with stakeholders to establish the Catawba-Wateree Water Management Group, a nonprofit corporation composed of 18 regional 
public water suppliers and Duke Energy, which 
developed a basin-wide Water Supply Master Plan. Through implementation of conservation measures and improved drought management, 
the plan will extend water supplies for decades beyond current projections. As of March 2015, 
15 of the 18 members have adopted nonbinding resolutions in support of the plan. 
This collaborative and forward-thinking approach 
to managing the region’s water supply ensures the sustainability of water resources for a growing region while meeting energy production needs. 
1  U.S. Energy Information Administration
2  U.S. EPA Watersense3  U.S. EPA Water Use Information
Permanent Solutions Being Crafted  
For Ash Management
After the Dan River coal ash spill in February 
2014, Duke Energy has been busy accelerating plans to close basins across the system and 
working aggressively to improve the company’s 
coal ash management practices.
The company performed a comprehensive 
engineering review of its ash basins to ensure the 
system continues to operate safely and to inform 
initial closure strategy recommendations.
Duke Energy is also working rapidly to close all 
32 ash basins at its 14 North Carolina facilities  
in time to meet aggressive state deadlines of  
five to 15 years. The EPA also finalized a federal  
coal ash rule, which directs additional work in North Carolina and across the rest of the 
company’s service area.
SAFETY PERFORMANCE METRICS
Safety At Duke Energy
 2011 2012 2013 2014
Employee and contractor work-related fatalities 3 2 3 4
Employee Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) 1, 2 0.70 0.69 0.62 0.58
Employee Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) 1, 30.22 0.20 0.20 0.17
Contractor Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) 21.37 41.60 41.27 51.05 5
Contractor Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) 30.32 40.38 40.28 50.28 5
1 Includes both employees and workforce augmentation contractors.
2 Number of recordable incidents per 100 workers (based on OSHA criteria). Top decile in 2013 for employee TICR was 0.62 (based on the latest data available from the Edison  
Electric Institute).
3 Number of lost workday cases per 100 workers.
4 Data represent turnkey contractors for pre-merger Duke Energy.
5 Systems to gather turnkey contractor safety data are being implemented. Data represent approximately 75% and 80% of turnkey contractors in 2013 and 2014, respectively.
\ 30 \  DUKE ENERGY   Already, the company has filed specific plans to 
excavate ash from Asheville Steam Plant, Dan River Steam Station, Riverbend Steam Station 
and Sutton Steam Plant – all in North Carolina –  
and the W.S. Lee Steam Station in South 
Carolina. Duke Energy will safely recycle the  
ash or relocate it to a lined facility.
Site-specific engineering continues at other  
plants to transform initial closure strategies to  
the detailed engineering closure plans required  
by the new federal rule.The company produced about 3.5 million tons 
of ash in 2014 across its coal fleet and manages about 280 million tons in ash basins, landfills and other storage units. About 48 percent of the 
ash produced was recycled in concrete products 
or used as fill material.
The company also formed a National Ash 
Management Advisory Board – an independent 
panel of experts – to help guide Duke Energy’s 
strategy around permanent coal ash  
disposal solutions.
Ash: Proposed settlement reached with  
U.S. governmentIn February 2015, Duke Energy announced it 
had reached a proposed agreement with the U.S. government that, if approved, would close the 
federal investigation into the company’s Dan River 
coal ash spill and ash basin operations at other North Carolina coal plants.
The agreement identified nine misdemeanor 
violations of the Clean Water Act in connection 
with the spill and unauthorized discharges at various Duke Energy plants. The company is addressing each of the issues through facility improvements or new permitting. 
Among the major provisions of the settlement:
   It requires Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke 
Energy Progress to pay a total of $68.2 million in fines and restitution and $34 million for 
community service and mitigation. These 
payments will be borne by shareholders,  
not customers.
   It also includes a five-year probationary period with a court-appointed monitor to ensure compliance with all provisions. 
Reliable power is one of the highest priorities for Duke Energy and its customers. Despite some wild weather, including harsh arctic cold that pushed customer demand for power to historic levels in Duke Energy’s Midwest and Carolinas 
service territories, power reliability remained high and continued its improving 
performance trend over the past three years.
Outage Statistics
2014
2011 2012 2013 2014 Target
Average number of outages 1, 2 
(occurrences)1.30 1.19 1.14 1.13 1.15
Average time without power 1, 2 
(minutes)142 126 121 123 126
1 Outages with a duration greater than 5 minutes; statistics are reported per customer.
2 Lower numbers indicate better performance.
Generation
Duke Energy’s diverse generation fleet capably met our customers’ demand in 2014, but did not meet aggressive internal reliability improvement targets.  
Nuclear fleet capacity factor, a measure of generation reliability, improved  
from 92.8 percent in 2013 to 93.2 percent in 2014, and exceeded 90 percent  for the 16th consecutive year. The regulated fossil fleet also improved  commercial availability performance slightly, from 85.7 percent in 2013 to  85.9 percent in 2014.
The combined, nonregulated fossil and renewables fleets’ commercial availability 
and renewables yield slipped from 91.9 percent in 2013 to 88.9 percent in 2014. Duke Energy Renewables availability metric, Energy Yield, improved to 96.0 percent  
in 2014 from 93.9 percent in the prior year.
Generation Reliability
2014
2011 2012 2013 2014 Target
Nuclear capacity factor 393.7% 90.4% 92.8% 93.2% 93.3%
Regulated fossil commercial 
availability 4 87.8% 586.5% 585.7% 85.9% 86.5%
Nonregulated fossil commercial availability and renewables yield
 488.9% 92.9% 91.9% 88.9% 92.0%
3 Crystal River Unit 3 is not included in these statistics, because 2009 was the last year it operated. 
4 Based on units operated by Duke Energy and ownership share. 
5  Former Progress Energy fossil plants, all regulated, are excluded because different measures were 
used to track their reliability performance before 2013. A common reliability measure for the entire regulated fossil fleet was used starting in 2013.
RELIABLE POWER
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 31 /Diesel Fuel Released Into  
The Ohio River
In August 2014, almost 9,000 gallons of diesel 
fuel were released into the Ohio River during a routine transfer of fuel at the W.C. Beckjord 
Station in Ohio.
Federal and state environmental response 
agencies, along with the U.S. Coast Guard, were promptly notified. The Northern Kentucky Water 
District and Greater Cincinnati Water Works 
were also notified, which allowed them to take appropriate action to ensure no impacts to public drinking water.
A Unified Command Post was established at 
the plant and was operational for five days. The company worked closely with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Coast Guard, Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Kentucky Department for Environmental Protection  
and local agencies in response to the spill.
The collaboration of the different agencies during  
the cleanup proved to be invaluable. Three vessels  
deployed about 2,000 feet of oil-containment 
booms to contain and help collect the oil.
Cleaning The Springs
The Kings Bay spring system is a vital cultural 
and economic resource for the state of Florida. Located near Crystal River, Kings Bay forms one 
of the largest group of springs in Florida and 
generates the headwaters of the Crystal River.
The system is a national wildlife refuge, serving 
as the largest winter refuge for manatees on the 
Florida Gulf Coast. It is a popular ecotourism 
destination and has been designated an Outstanding Florida Water by the state.
Now, there will be more fresh water for the 
springs thanks to a unique partnership between 
a power plant and a wastewater treatment plant. The city of Crystal River will send up to 750,000 gallons per day of reclaimed water to Duke 
Energy’s Crystal River Energy Complex where it 
will be used for industrial purposes.
Redirecting reclaimed water to Duke Energy 
rather than discharging it into a spray field 
will reduce the amount of nutrients reaching the spring area by an estimated 28 percent. Additionally, the reclaimed water will offset 
groundwater usage by 0.75 million gallons per 
day initially. In the future, that may grow to 1.5 million gallons per day. Both efforts will increase freshwater resources flowing into Kings Bay.Protecting our springs and natural waterways is vital to preserving Florida’s natural resources. Together, a Duke Energy power plant and a wastewater treatment plant are doing just that. 
Turtle Diary: Slow And Steady Winner
At the Brunswick Nuclear Plant in North Carolina, employees began working on how to prevent turtles from slipping past the plant’s protective 
barrier on the Cape Fear River.
The plant was averaging 11 stranded turtles a 
season, with Brunswick’s sea turtle recovery program making sure they were rescued and 
returned to the river.
Then employees began to attack the root of the 
problem – how to stop turtles from getting past the barrier in the first place.
A maintenance program that shortened the time 
the barrier was lifted and provided easier and 
more frequent inspections to identify holes turtles could slip through has shown great results.
In 2012, the plant had 23 sea turtles slip past 
the barrier. In 2014 … zero. That result is a win 
for the company and sea turtles alike.
East Bend Refocuses On Recycling
Nothing beats face-to-face communication when you’re trying to change behavior.
Case in point: After an outage at the East 
Bend Generating Station in Kentucky, station management noticed a lot of recyclable materials in the trash bins. The station had a recycling program, but many contractors working the 
outage were not aware of it.
For the next maintenance outage, the station 
brought extra recycling bins on site and placed them in contractor offices and work areas. In 
addition, an extra dumpster was placed in the 
recycling storage area.
The specifics of the recycling program were rolled 
out during the all-hands safety meeting that 
kicked off the outage. The contract workforce was receptive and willing to help out. 
The results were worth bragging about. After the 
outage was completed, nearly 11,000 pounds of recyclables were collected. That’s about eight open-top (30-cubic-yard) dumpsters. That focus on recycling also saved the company more than 
$1,000 in landfill fees.
Sea Turtles
Protecting sea turtles at Brunswick  
Nuclear Plant
\ 32 \  DUKE ENERGY   2014 Electricity Generated (Net MWh) 1 
United States Latin America Total
MWh 
(thousands) PercentMWh 
(thousands) PercentMWh 
(thousands) Percent
Coal 102,831 42.1% 411 2.6% 103,242 39.7%
Natural gas 65,875 26.9% 719 4.5% 66,594 25.6%
Oil 322 0.1% 1,500 9.5% 1,822 0.7%
Total fossil 169,028 69.1% 2,630 16.6% 171,658 65.9%
Nuclear 67,809 27.7% 0 0.0% 67,809 26.0%
Conventional hydro 2,885 1.2% 13,241 83.4% 16,126 6.2%
Wind 5,212 2.1% 0 0.0% 5,212 2.0%
Solar 265 0.1% 0 0.0% 265 0.1%
Total carbon-free 76,171 31.2% 13,241 83.4% 89,412 34.3%
Pumped-storage hydro 2(732) -0.3% 0 0.0% (732) -0.3%
Total 244,467 100.0% 15,871 100.0% 260,337 100.0%
1 All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating plants. Totals may not add up exactly because of rounding. 
2 Pumped-storage hydro helps meet peak demand and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces. 
2014 Generation Capacity (MW) 3 
United States Latin America Total
 MW Percent MW Percent MW Percent
Coal 21,230 37.1% 83 1.9% 21,313 34.6%
Natural gas 7,617 13.3% 280 6.5% 7,897 12.8%
Oil  609 1.1% 956 22.0% 1,565 2.5%
Natural gas/oil 14,155 24.7% 0 0.0% 14,155 23.0%
Total fossil 43,611 76.1% 1,319 30.4% 44,930 72.9%
Nuclear 8,319 14.5% 0 0.0% 8,319 13.5%
Conventional hydro 1,410 2.5% 3,022 69.6% 4,432 7.2%
Solar 189 0.3% 0 0.0% 189 0.3%
Wind 1,628 2.8% 0 0.0% 1,628 2.6%
Total carbon-free 11,545 20.1% 3,022 69.6% 14,567 23.6%
Pumped-storage hydro 42,140 3.7% 0 0.0% 2,140 3.5%
Total 57,296 100.0% 4,341 100.0% 61,637 100.0%
3 All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating plants. Wind and solar include equity interests in generating 
assets. Totals may not add up exactly because of rounding. 
4 Pumped-storage hydro helps meet peak demand and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces.2014 Electricity Generated *
* Pumped-storage hydro, which totaled -0.3%, consumes more energy than it produces. Totals may not add up exactly because of rounding.
Over one-third of the electricity we generated 
in 2014 was from carbon-free sources, 
including nuclear, hydro, wind and solar. 
Over 25% of our generation was from natural 
gas, which emits about half as much carbon 
dioxide as coal when used for electric 
generation. Duke Energy Renewables sells  
the electricity and/or RECs it generates to  
its customers.  39.7%  Coal
 26.0%  Nuclear
 25.6%  Natural gas
  6.2%  Conventional  
  hydro
  2.1%  Wind/solar
  0.7%  Oil
2014 Generation Capacity *
* Pumped-storage hydro, which totaled 3.5%, consumes 
more energy than it produces. Totals may not add up exactly because of rounding.
Duke Energy has a diverse, increasingly clean 
generation portfolio. 
 34.6%  Coal
23.0%  Natural gas/oil
13.5%  Nuclear
12.8%  Natural gas
  7.2%   Conventional  
   hydro
  2.9%  Wind/solar
  2.5%  Oil
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE METRICS
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 33 /Fuels Consumed For U.S. Electric Generation5
2008 2012 2013 2014
Coal (million tons) 63.1 44.2 43.6 44.0
Oil (million gallons) 230.6 44.6 41.2 53.6
Natural gas (billion cubic feet) 163.4 452.5 501.2 525.3
5 All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating plants.
Water Withdrawn And Consumed (billion gallons)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Withdrawn 6,100 5,900 5,700 5,665 5,799
Consumed 113 105 100 106 93
Emissions From Generation6
2008 2012 2013 2014
CO2 emissions  (thousand tons) 7
 U.S. 160,100 131,700 133,615 135,289
 Latin America 2,700 3,100 2,500 2,265
Total 162,800 134,800 136,115 137,555
Total CO2 emissions intensity   
(pounds per net kWh) 1.34 1.08 1.05 1.06
U.S. SO2 emissions  (tons) 8639,200 203,000 201,000 180,000
U.S. SO2 emissions intensity   
(pounds per net MWh) 5.3 1.8 1.7 1.5
U.S. NOX emissions  (tons) 8190,400 98,000 100,000 97,000
U.S. NOX emissions intensity   
(pounds per net MWh)1.6 0.8 0.8 0.8
6 Totals may not add up exactly because of rounding.
7 CO2 reported from Duke Energy’s U.S. electric generation and Duke Energy International operations, and based on ownership 
share of generating plants. Duke Energy Renewables sells the electricity and/or RECs it generates to its customers.
8 SO2 and NOX reported from Duke Energy’s U.S. electric generation based on ownership share of fossil-fueled plants.
U.S. Sulfur Dioxide And Nitrogen Oxides Emissions (tons)9 
And U.S. Electricity Generation (Net MWh) (thousands)
 U.S. sulfur dioxide emissions  
  U.S. nitrogen oxides emissions     Electricity generationFuels consumed for  
U.S. electric generation
Since 2008, use of coal and oil as generation 
fuels has significantly decreased. These  
have been replaced primarily by natural gas, mostly because it became a relatively less 
expensive fuel and we added natural gas 
generation capacity.
Water withdrawn and consumed
Water withdrawn is the total volume removed from a water source, such as a lake or a river. 
Because of the once-through cooling systems 
on many of our coal-fired and nuclear plants, 
about 98 percent of this water is returned to 
the source and available for other uses. Water 
consumed is the amount of water removed for 
use and not returned to the source.
Emissions from generation
Emissions levels and intensities depend on many factors, including generation diversity 
and efficiency, demand for electricity, weather, 
fuel availability and prices, and emission 
controls deployed. Since 2005, our U.S. carbon 
dioxide (CO
2) emissions decreased by 19%, 
sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions decreased by 
85% and nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions 
decreased by 64%. Reasons for these 
decreases include the addition of pollution 
control equipment, decreased coal generation, 
increased natural gas generation, and 
replacement of higher-emitting plants. There 
is currently no demonstrated commercially 
available technology to control CO2 emissions 
from fossil-fueled generation.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE METRICS
9  SO2 and NOX reported from Duke Energy’s U.S. electric generation based on ownership share of fossil-fueled plants.
2008639,200
190,400
2010
115,300348,900
2011
103,100283,200
2012
98,000203,000
2013
100,000201,000
20051,224,015
270,257
2009
109,400390,100300,000
250,000200,000150,000100,00050,0000
2014
97,000180,000
\ 34 \  DUKE ENERGY   U.S. Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) (thousand pounds)10
2007 2011 2012 2013
Releases to air 97,969 27,423 20,723 22,400
Releases to water 257 140 133 131
Releases to land 22,052 17,490 14,297 12,449
Off-site transfers 155 2,876 3,100 2,924
Total 120,434 47,929 38,253 37,904
10 Data pertain to facilities Duke Energy owns or operates and where Duke Energy is the responsible reporting party. Totals may 
not add up exactly because of rounding.
Waste
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
U.S. solid waste 
 Total generated  (tons)11 
 Percent recycled38,65112
63%43,58612
64%46,96412
73%84,08313
69%85,49013
71%
Hazardous waste generated  (tons) 1448 55 36 51 48
Low-level radioactive waste  
(Class A, B and C) generated (cubic feet) 15129,608 78,200 84,403 88,994 —
11 Weights are estimated based on volumes where necessary.
12 Excludes Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Generation Services, Duke Energy International and large 
one-time projects.
13 Excludes Duke Energy International, Duke Energy Renewables and large one-time projects.
14 Excludes Duke Energy International.
15 Total of Class A, B, and C waste disposal as reported to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Crystal River Unit 3 is not included in these statistics, because it is not part of the operating fleet, and its retirement has been announced. Data for 2014 will be available later in 2015.
Reportable Oil Spills
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Spills 108 91 48 65 26
Gallons 28,700 20,300 10,800 4,823 12,006
Environmental Regulatory Citations16
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Citations 25 25 16 16 33
Fines/penalties  (dollars) $ 326,416 $ 14,682 $ 128,562 $1,006,935 $236,058
16 Includes international and U.S. federal, state and local citations and fines/penalties.U.S. Toxic Release Inventory (TRI)
Duke Energy’s TRI releases for 2013 were 
down nearly 69% from 2007, primarily 
because of the significant investments we’ve  
made in environmental controls for our  
power plants (data for 2014 will be available 
in August 2015).
Waste
We are on track to increase the percentage  
of solid waste that is recycled from 69%  
in 2013 to 80% in 2018. (This goal  
excludes Duke Energy International  
and Duke Energy Renewables.)
Reportable oil spills
Oil spills include releases of lubricating oil from generating stations, leaks from 
transformers, or damage caused by  
weather or by third parties (typically  
because of auto accidents).
Environmental regulatory citations
Fines/penalties were relatively large in 2013 
because of the November 2013 settlement 
agreement addressing golden eagle fatalities 
at wind power facilities. See the “Migratory 
Bird Settlement Agreement” article in the 
2013 Sustainability Report. 
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 35 /2014 Highlights
 Began a new Employee Resource Group for our military veterans
 Received national recognition as one of the top companies in the nation for women
Challenges
 Ensure knowledge transfer as our baby boomers retire and we hire new employees
Opportunities
 Increase our bench strength by continuing to increase diversity in the workplace
A Great Place To Work
Women comprise nearly 23 percent of Duke 
Energy’s workforce, more than 19 percent of senior management and 40 percent of the 
executive leadership team. Duke Energy is being 
recognized nationally as one of the top companies for women.
In 2014, the company ranked No. 16 on 
Daily Worth’s List of the 25 Best Companies 
for Women. Internal strategies like leadership development programs for women, business networking opportunities, telecommuting and flex 
time caught the financial website’s attention.
Ernst & Young’s “Talent at the Table: Index of 
women in power and utilities” concluded that Duke Energy offers more opportunity to  
women than any other of the industry’s  
largest 100 companies worldwide.
In Fortune magazine, CEO Lynn Good was  
ranked No. 13 among the Most Powerful  
Women in Business.
Employee Care Ensures  
A Healthier Workforce
A popular program called Employee Care, which 
began in Florida in 2011, has proven to be both popular and successful in helping keep our 
employees healthy and on the job. 
It started with one nurse and has since expanded 
to two, placing them in key areas of the state to personally offer first aid to employees with minor workplace injuries – like sprains, strains or cuts. By addressing these injuries early, employees 
receive proper treatment quickly – and often times  
more appropriately than from off-site facilities.
The program is catching on. Employees like the 
on-site care and the treatment often prevents 
minor cuts and sprains from becoming bigger 
issues later – some of which could lead to complications or lost workdays.
In fact, employees are starting to use the service 
for nonwork health concerns and advice. It’s a 
normal outgrowth of Employee Care and one the company embraces. Proper treatment and good advice helps all concerned.
In 2014, Employee Care began expanding to other  
areas of Duke Energy. Today, there are nurses 
in the Carolinas and the Midwest. In 2015, the program is expected to expand even further.
Molding The Company’s Future Workforce
Starting as a pilot program in 2012 with just 38 participants, The Duke Energy Academy at Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana, has 
quickly grown to become one of the state’s most 
talked-about summer learning programs for high school juniors and seniors, as well as teachers.
The intensive week-long program has a two-fold 
purpose: inspire students to enter the science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) disciplines and consider energy-related career 
4 
Employees
Academy at PurdueA pilot program in 2012, The Duke Energy 
Academy at Purdue  
is now a “go-to”  
destination for  
high school students  
and teachers.
Develop and engage  
employees and  
strengthen leadership
\ 36 \  DUKE ENERGY   Peter Larkins | “Together We Stand for Our Veterans” Chair
fields; and inspire teachers while providing 
resources for them to communicate the importance of STEM disciplines to their students.
In a competitive application process, 27 teachers 
and 53 students were selected for the June 2014 academy from a pool of over 280 applicants.  
(For 2015, 400 applications have been received –  
interest in the program keeps growing!) A grant from the Duke Energy Foundation allowed participants to attend the academy at no cost to  
them; teachers also received a small cash stipend.
Through lectures, tours, hands-on projects and 
creative fun, the academy’s participants engaged in a wide range of energy-related learning opportunities. They designed wind turbine blades 
and solar farms; simulated smart grid supply and 
demand dynamics; and performed experiments related to photovoltaic thin film, batteries, biofuels, fuel cells, waste heat power generation and nuclear fuel. One big highlight – a tour of the 
company’s Cayuga coal-fired generating station.
Teachers also collaborated with Purdue faculty  
to create 18 lesson plans on energy topics,  
which are available online at no charge at  
purdue.edu/discoverypark/energy/energyacademy/.Said one teacher: “I feel like I have a better 
understanding of the behind-the-scenes workings of … coal power plants and wind farms.” 
And from a student: “(The academy) was the best 
week of my life, making new friends and learning so much … my expectations were blown away.”\ Connected \ Together We Stand
Peter Larkins is quick to tell you the transition from military 
life to the business world is not always easy.
A former Marine officer, Larkins has been with Duke Energy 
for seven years and considers it a great place to work. Now, he’s on a new mission: helping other former military personnel find employment at Duke Energy. Larkins is the chair of “Together We Stand for Our Veterans” – a new Employee Resource Group (ERG) at Duke Energy.
“Together We Stand” provides support and networking 
opportunities for servicemen and servicewomen, as well as relatives of those who serve. In addition, the group assists Human Resources with their military recruitment efforts. During 2014, around 10 percent of the company’s new hires self-identified as veterans.
“When you go from a very structured culture to one with 
more choices, it can be a tough move for some,” said Larkins. “‘Together We Stand’ allows members to bond with each other and build relationships that can ease that transition and promote satisfaction.”
Larkins recognizes the importance of retaining quality employees.“It’s not enough just to hire former military personnel,” he 
said. “You have to create a culture that is welcoming to employees. Those who served in the military have a lot to give. We must create a culture that brings out those talents.”
Overall, Duke Energy has seven ERGs, celebrating the 
differences among employees from all backgrounds as it seeks to foster an inclusive work environment.
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 37 /WORKFORCE PERFORMANCE METRICS 1
Workforce Statistics
 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/14
Full- and part-time employees 27,885 28,129 28,344
 United States 26,691 26,883 27,099
 International 1,194 1,246 1,245
Collective bargaining unit/union members as percent of workforce 
 U.S. (members of a collective bargaining unit) 21.7% 21.0% 19.6%
 International (dues-paying members of a union) 25.2% 26.7% 24.4%
U.S. Workforce Demographics 1
 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/14
Ethnic diversity as percent of workforce 
 White 84.7% 85.4% 85.2%
 Black/African-American 10.5% 10.6% 10.7%
 Hispanic/Latino 1.8% 2.1% 2.1%
 Asian 1.1% 1.2% 1.3%
 American Indian/Alaska Native 0.5% 0.5% 0.6%
 Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.0% 0.0% 0.1%
 Not specified 1.5% 0.2% 0.0%
Females/minorities as percent of workforce/management 
 Females as percent of workforce 22.4% 22.4% 22.2%
 Females as percent of management 18.0% 18.2% 18.0%
 Minorities as percent of workforce 13.8% 14.4% 14.8%
 Minorities as percent of management 9.4% 9.7% 10.2%
U.S. Employee Turnover Summary
 2012 2013 2014
Turnover as percent of workforce 6.1% 11.3% 7.1%
Percentage of employees eligible to retire in 5 years 251.5% 48.0% 48.8%
Percentage of employees eligible to retire in 10 years 265.2% 60.3% 62.0%
1 Ethnic diversity and gender data are not captured for Duke Energy International employees. 
2 “Eligible to retire” is defined as 55 years of age or older, with at least five years of service.
A Milestone For Our Workforce 
For the first time, in 2014, “Generation X” and “millennials” 
made up over half our employees, while “baby boomers” and 
“traditionalists,” now comprise just under half. 
We value the contributions from employees in each of these 
generations, and we are planning to make sure that our workforce 
continues to have the right skills and qualifications. Workforce 
needs and demographics are assessed, then we recruit, train and 
provide on-the-job experience to prepare for the future.Four Generations of Duke Energy’s  
U.S. Employees
 0.2%  Traditionalists (born before 1946)
 49.5%  Baby boomers (born 1946-1964)
 35.4%  Generation X (born 1965-1981)
 14.9%  Millennials (born after 1981)
\ 38 \  DUKE ENERGY   \ Connected \  
Duke Energy Line Workers Earn  
11 Awards At World Competition
Duke Energy line workers took home 11 awards from the 2014 International Lineman’s Rodeo.
The 60 line workers who competed were tested on job-related 
skills such as hurt-man rescues, equipment repair and pole climbs. Competitors were judged on safety and technique, with speed being the last criteria used to differentiate the  best scores.
Ronnie Bailey Jr. of Lake Panasoffkee, Florida, placed second 
in the apprentice investor-owned utility division.
“Receiving the award was surreal, and I couldn’t have done 
it without the support of my co-workers and the team,” said Bailey, whose father has been a Duke Energy Florida line worker for 33 years. “I’m thankful to the company for giving us the tools and time to be successful, and I’m proud to represent Duke Energy in the world spotlight.”
Ronnie Bailey Jr. | Lineman Apprentice, Lake Panasoffkee, Florida
Volunteerism: Employees Doing More
Duke Energy and its employees have a long 
history of volunteerism. In 2014, the company focused on environmental projects throughout  
its service territory as well as along the Dan River in Virginia.
With the company offering time off for  
employees to volunteer, it’s estimated that  
over 3,600 employees joined retirees and  
others to provide over 212,000 hours on  
projects in their communities.The projects were varied – from clearing nature 
trails to building or refurbishing homes. 
For example, employees in North Carolina  
helped the Carolina Waterfowl Rescue by  
building new wading ponds, a bridge for the  
birds and helping with pond stabilization. In Florida, employees gave the Weedon Island 
Preserve a fresh look. In South Carolina, a company grant combined with employee 
participation helped Trees Greenville in  
planting and protecting trees.
In Ohio, employees pitched in to help create 
a cleaner downtown as part of the Cincinnati 
Mayor’s Corporate Challenge. In Edwardsport, 
Indiana, employees worked with the city to  
help revitalize a local park. 
In the end, Duke Energy employees helped  
make their communities a better place.
2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   / 39 /FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
Cautionary statements regarding forward-looking information
This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking 
statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking 
statements are identified by terms and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “expect,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “will,” 
“potential,” “forecast,” “target,” “outlook,” “guidance,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking 
statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: state, federal and 
foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future 
environmental requirements or climate change, as well as rulings that affect cost and investment recovery or have an impact on rate structures or market the extent and timing of the costs and 
liabilities relating to the Dan River ash basin release and compliance with current and any future 
regulatory changes related to the management of coal ash; the ability to recover eligible costs, including those associated with future significant weather events, and earn an adequate return on investment through the regulatory process; the costs of decommissioning nuclear facilities could 
prove to be more extensive than are currently identified and all costs may not be fully recoverable 
through the regulatory process; the risk that the credit ratings of the company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect; costs and effects of legal and administrative 
proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential 
growth or decline in service territories or customer bases resulting from customer usage patterns, including energy efficiency efforts and use of alternative energy sources including self-generation and distributed generation technologies; additional competition in electric markets and continued 
industry consolidation; political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy 
conducts business; the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on operations, including the economic, operational and other effects of severe storms, hurricanes, droughts and tornadoes; 
the ability to successfully operate electric generating facilities and deliver electricity to customers; 
the impact on facilities and business from a terrorist attack, cybersecurity threats, data security breaches and other catastrophic events; the inherent risks associated with the operation and potential construction of nuclear facilities, including environmental, health, safety, regulatory and financial risks; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and the ability to recover such costs through the regulatory process, 
where appropriate, and their impact on liquidity positions and the value of underlying assets; the 
results of financing efforts, including the ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including credit ratings and general economic conditions; declines in 
the market prices of equity and fixed income securities and resultant cash funding requirements for 
defined benefit pension plans, other post-retirement benefit plans, and nuclear decommissioning trust funds; construction and development risks associated with the completion of Duke Energy and its subsidiaries’ capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities, including 
risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction 
budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from customers in a timely manner or at all; changes in rules 
for regional transmission organizations, including changes in rate designs and new and evolving 
capacity markets, and risks related to obligations created by the default of other participants; the ability to control operation and maintenance costs; the level of creditworthiness of counterparties to transactions; employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and 
retain key personnel; the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions to Duke Energy 
Corporation holding company (the Parent); the performance of projects undertaken by our nonregulated businesses and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; the 
effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; 
the impact of potential goodwill impairments; the ability to reinvest prospective undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries or repatriate such earnings on a tax-efficient basis; and the ability to successfully complete future merger, acquisition or divestiture plans. 
Additional risks and uncertainties are identified and discussed in Duke Energy’s and its 
subsidiaries’ reports filed with the SEC and available at the SEC’s website at sec.gov. In light 
of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any 
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Management evaluates financial performance in part based on the non-GAAP financial measures, 
adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS). These items are measured as income from continuing operations net of income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, 
adjusted for the dollar and per share impact of mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in 
the Commercial Power segment and special items including the operating results of the Disposal Group classified as discontinued operations for GAAP purposes. Special items represent certain 
charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although 
it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. As result of the agreement in August 2014 to sell the Disposal Group to Dynegy, the operating results of the Disposal Group are classified as discontinued operations, including a portion of the mark-to-market adjustments 
associated with derivative contracts. Management believes that including the operating results of 
the Disposal Group classified as discontinued operations better reflects its financial performance and therefore has included these results in adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS. Derivative 
contracts are used in Duke Energy’s hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation 
assets in the Commercial Power segment. The mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately and, if associated with the Disposal Group, classified as discontinued operations, as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or 
regulatory treatment. The economic value of generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair 
value due to market price volatility of input and output commodities (e.g., coal, electricity, natural gas). Economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities 
related to generation assets. Operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the 
accrual method. Management believes excluding impacts of mark-to-market changes of the derivative contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the derivative contract with the portion of economic value of the underlying hedged asset. 
Management believes the presentation of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS provides useful  
information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of Duke Energy’s 
performance across periods. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for planning 
and forecasting and for reporting results to the Duke Energy Board of Directors (Board of Directors),  
employees, shareholders, analysts and investors concerning Duke Energy’s financial performance. 
Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses. The most directly comparable GAAP measures for adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS are Net Income 
Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation and Diluted EPS Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation 
common shareholders, which include the dollar and per share impact of special items, mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment and discontinued operations.
Duke Energy’s adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS may not be comparable to similarly  
titled measures of another company because other entities may not calculate the measures in the  
same manner.The following table reconciles non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
Years Ended December 31,
2014 2013 2012
(in millions, except  
per share amounts) AmountPer 
Diluted  
Share AmountPer  
Diluted  
Share AmountPer  
Diluted  
Share
Adjusted earnings $3,218 $4.55 $3,080 $4.36 2,489 $4.33
Edwardsport impairment 
and other charges— — — — (402) (0.70)
International tax 
adjustment(373) (0.53) — — — —
Crystal River Unit 3 charges— — (215) (0.31) — —
Costs to achieve Progress Energy merger(127) (0.18) (184) (0.26) (397) (0.70)
Coal ash Plea Agreements reserve(102) (0.14) — — — —
Asset impairment (59) (0.08) — — — —
Nuclear development charges— — (57) (0.08) — —
Litigation reserve — — (14) (0.02) — —
Economic hedges 
(mark-to-market)(6) (0.01) — — (3) (0.01)
Democratic National 
Convention Host Committee support— — — — (6) (0.01)
Asset sales 9 0.01 50 0.07 — —
Employee severance and office consolidation— — — — 60 0.11
Discontinued operations (677) (0.96) 5 — 27 0.05
Net Income Attributable to Duke Energy 
Corporation$1,883 $2.66 $2,665 $3.76 $1,768 $3.07
Copyright 2015 Duke Energy Corporation • All rights reservedGLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a recognized international framework for economic, 
environmental and social performance disclosure. We provide a detailed response to GRI indicators on our website.  We are transitioning our disclosures from G3 Version 3.1 to the new G4 reporting 
guidelines and will continue disclosing for indicators in GRI’s Electric Utilities Sector Supplement.ABOUT OUR DATA
This report contains the best data available at time of publication. Social and environmental 
data can be challenging to accurately measure. We correct and report errors in prior-year data when found, and we work to continually improve our data measurement, gathering and reporting 
processes to increase the integrity of information presented.