Partners  
for Greater 
PurposeSUSTAINABILITY REPORTTMChairman and CEO Letter and Table of Contents .......................... 2
Ecolab at a Glance .................................................................................... 3
eROI  .............................................................................................................. 4
Building a Sustainable Future .......................................................... 5
2030 Impact Goals  .................................................................................. 7
Our Customer Impact  ............................................................................. 9
Leading Through Partnership  ........................................................... 11
Case Studies  .............................................................................................. 13
Advancing Our Purpose ....................................................................... 19
Aligning with the UN SDGs .................................................................... 212020 Goals and Performance  .............................................................. 23
Water Stewardship ................................................................................... 25
How We Innovate ...................................................................................... 27
Water Management Tools  ...................................................................... 29
Product Sustainability  ............................................................................ 31
A Diverse and Inclusive Workforce ..................................................... 33
Community Relations  .............................................................................. 34
Safety  ........................................................................................................... 35
Awards and Recognition ........................................................................ 37
Summary and Materiality  ...................................................................... 38What will the  
world look like  
10 years from now?  
We’ll have an additional billion people in the world, all of 
them wanting a good life and a healthy planet. That means 
increased demands and higher expectations for how we 
work together to address global issues — and more pressure 
on our natural resources.
Building a flourishing, sustainable future that offers 
uncompromised quality of life for all certainly won’t be  
easy, but at Ecolab we see opportunities where others  
see challenges. And we know that when we work together, 
we can find solutions that are bigger than the problems.
That’s why we’re driven to empower businesses around 
the world to do more and be better. There’s a lot riding on 
industry’s ability to be resilient — meeting people’s needs 
while protecting the public health and preserving natural 
resources. The decisions we make in this decade are 
crucial to creating a sustainable way of life. Our global 
team is dedicated to helping our customers thrive and  
make a positive impact in the world.
Together, we’re partners for greater purpose.CHAIRMAN AND CEO LETTER AND TABLE OF CONTENTS
Ecolab has the ability and the responsibility to drive positive change 
in the world, both within our company and through our work with our 
customers and our communities. Our capacity to make a difference 
couldn’t be more important, given the many challenges the world is 
facing: racial inequity, the health and economic impacts of COVID-19, 
water scarcity and climate change foremost among them. Ecolab can 
and must be part of the solution to these problems. 
George Floyd’s tragic death in our headquarters’ community put a 
global spotlight on the need for urgent action to advance racial and 
social justice. We are committed to making faster, deeper progress 
within Ecolab, starting with our new diversity and inclusion goals 
outlined in this report. We know we need do more internally, but we 
also recognize that an internal focus alone is not sufficient. We will step 
up externally in a much bigger way than we have in the past, because 
we know we can’t create diversity and inclusion within our four walls 
if we ignore injustice outside. Ecolab leaders are working with other 
community leaders to gain the insights and perspectives we need to 
make significant, sustainable change.
The imperative to work collaboratively to tackle big challenges 
has been readily apparent as the world has grappled with the 
global pandemic. COVID-19’s impact on people and businesses has 
varied around the world, often affected by the extent and speed of 
intervention and cooperation. This global experience has been a 
powerful example of how planning and preparation can improve or 
weaken resilience.
I am proud of the way Ecolab associates are partnering with our 
customers to help control the spread of this virus and support the 
recovery. That same dedication and agility will be needed when the 
world once again turns its attention to the significant risks of global 
water scarcity and climate change. These risks must be addressed if 
we are to avoid another global disaster, at a time when businesses are 
facing severe economic pressures. The resilience companies gain from 
integrating sustainability goals into their business models is needed 
more than ever.
Ecolab has always operated where sustainability and economic 
benefits align, helping our customers do more with less and living up 
to our responsibilities in our own operations. That’s why, in this report, 
we are announcing a new set of sustainability goals for 2030, focused 
on water, climate, food, diversity and health. With these new goals, we will increase our positive impact through our work with our customers, 
accelerate our efforts within our own operations, expand our approach 
to product sustainability, support diversity and inclusion and live our 
values in the workplace and the community.
These goals won’t be easy to achieve, but we know you achieve more 
when you aim high. We’ve always pushed ourselves to innovate and 
do better. Partnering around the world, in virtually every industry, 
we work with our customers to develop solutions that save water, 
energy, waste and money. This report includes several examples of 
the exponential savings and sustainable value creation that are made 
possible through these collaborations.
Working on the ground at nearly 3 million locations globally, our daily 
work with customers adds up to an enormous impact in the world. 
In 2019, we helped our customers save 206 billion gallons of water, 
equivalent to the annual drinking water needs of 712 million people, 
save 28 trillion Btu of energy and avoid 1.5 million metric tonnes of 
greenhouse gas emissions.
These numbers reflect the extraordinary power of partnerships. To 
meet the demands of a changing world, we need to work and innovate 
together to enhance the resilience of our communities and companies.
Around the world, businesses are moving from awareness to action, 
joining in collective pledges and setting more ambitious goals. There’s 
a growing understanding that sustainable and equitable choices are 
the right choices for society and the right choices for business too.
When we help our communities and customers succeed, Ecolab 
grows. And the more we grow, the more we can positively impact 
lives throughout the world. That’s what inspires us as we begin a new 
decade, grounded in our purpose: to make the world cleaner, safer 
and healthier — helping communities and businesses succeed while 
protecting people and vital resources.Act with purpose, work together, change the world
SINCERELY, 
Douglas M. Baker, Jr.  
CHAIRMAN AND  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  2ECOLAB AT A GLANCE
97
years of growth  
and innovationFOOTPRINT
$13 million
donated in 2019 through the Ecolab Foundation, 
corporate giving and volunteerismMore thanSTEWARDSHIPHISTORY
19
Global  
Technology and 
Innovation CentersRESEARCHPEOPLE
50,000
associates  27,000
sales-and-service professionals
INNOVATION
10,000+
patents 1,600research,  
development  
and engineering  
experts3 millionin more than
customer locations 170
countriesNearlyeROI
What is value? And why does it matter? 
Value creation is the primary aim of any business. Because 
value drives growth. Creating value means supporting a positive, 
meaningful impact for our customers, partners and communities. Empowering sustainable 
outcomes, improved 
performance and a lower 
total cost of operation
DELIVERING VALUE, EMPOWERING CUSTOMERS 
To succeed in today’s and tomorrow’s economy, a sustainable business model is no longer 
optional. Ecolab is focused on empowering our customers by delivering results, sustainably, 
through operational efficiency, quality, safety and environmental benefits such as reduced  
water and energy usage or greenhouse gas emissions. 
 
eROI IS HOW WE QUANTIFY IT. 
eROI stands for exponential return on investment. eROI is our process of measuring the  
benefits of our solutions and services to help customers quantify their return on investment. 
That includes their improved performance, operational efficiency and positive environmental 
impact. Our solutions, insights and methodology help our customers not only improve their 
operations but also give them the ability to track their progress and demonstrate value across  
a wide range of metrics. In 2019, eROI projects across industrial sectors delivered more  
than $275 million in annualized savings.   
The case studies throughout this report show first-hand how Ecolab helps deliver outcomes  
that matter through our partnership, insights, technology and training.
By helping define and deliver value, Ecolab supports our customers, 
enhancing the value they create in the world. Our practices align 
with our customers’ ambitions and lead to exponential business  
and sustainability results. We are partners for greater purpose.  WATER
ENERGY
WASTE
GREENHOUSE  
GASES
PRODUCTIVITY
ASSET 
PROTECTION
PROFITABILITY
HUMAN HEALTH  
AND SAFETYFOOD SAFETYLook for icons like the  
ones listed here to learn  
more about the types of  
outcomes we create.
including
and
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  4 3Our world continues to grow — both in complexity and opportunity. 
We’re committed to creating value and supporting an optimistic, 
flourishing future. That’s why, at the outset of a new decade, we’re 
embarking on a new generation of sustainability goals for 2030. With 
expanded, ambitious goals to achieve with customers and in our own 
operations, we’re working to make a positive impact, together.  SOLUTIONS THAT ENHANCE QUALITY 
OF LIFE FOR ALL
Building a 
Sustainable  
Future
5
5 ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  6In the world
Ecolab technologies and services help drive exponential return on investment (eROI) for our customers,  
while helping protect people and vital resources. Our 2030 Impact Goals showcase our global team’s  
dedication to helping our customers thrive and make a positive impact in the world. By 2030, we aim to: 
For more information about our 2030 Impact Goals, visit ecolab.com/sustainability.
In our operations
Alongside the impact we make with our customers, we make a difference through our own operations. In addition to bold environmental 
goals, we’re also introducing a new set of goals focused on an inclusive, diverse, just and safe community for our associates, aligned with 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our 2030 goals are focused on:
Global water challenges are the new normal. 
Our world will experience a 40% freshwater 
deficit by 2030 if nothing changes.1 That’s why Ecolab aims to 
achieve a positive water impact. We plan to: 
•  Restore greater than 50% of water withdrawal and achieve 
Alliance for Water Stewardship Standard certification in  
high-risk watersheds
•  Meet a positive water impact goal of 40% per unit of 
production across our enterpriseJoining the fight against climate change is 
no longer optional. Science-based targets 
provide companies with a clearly defined pathway to future-
proof growth. Ecolab will halve carbon emissions by 2030 and 
achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, and will achieve 
60% renewable energy by 2030 and 100% renewable energy  
by 2050. We will focus on: 
See more about our commitment on page 21. Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned 
or controlled by Ecolab
Scope  2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from sources 
owned or controlled by Ecolab
Scope  3: Greenhouse gas emissions from sources not owned 
or directly controlled by Ecolab, but related to our activities
We know that a sustainable future goes 
beyond environmental goals. Recent events 
have reinforced for us the need to drive faster, deeper progress 
inside Ecolab and within society. We believe that a diverse, 
inclusive and purpose-driven team is critical to the success 
of our individual associates, our company, our customers 
and our communities. These goals are an initial step to drive 
significant change to advance racial and social justice within our 
organization. We will focus on:
Committing to the UN Sustainable Development Goal 5:  
Gender Equality for Women and Girls
Maintaining Ecolab’s pay equity  in the U.S. and expanding globally
Increasing management level gender diversity to 35% with the 
ultimate goal of gender parity  
Increasing management level ethnic/racial diversity to  
25% as we seek to meet or surpass full representation of the  
U.S. workforce at all levels  2030 IMPACT GOALS
Working together for a healthier world
The next 10 years are a crucial opportunity to make a positive impact and set an example of 
sustainable leadership. And we are ready to do our part. That’s why we’ve launched our next 
generation of 2030 Impact Goals, focused on the change we can create for our company, 
communities, customers and planet.
Our safety goal is always zero incidents. But Goal Zero is more 
than a number. We place great value on training and education, 
both at our own facilities and at customer locations. We assess 
risk before we start work, identify and address safety issues, 
and remedy hazardous situations — at any Ecolab location and 
wherever we operate. By 2030, we aim to: Train and educate 
100% of our associates to work safely 100% of the time.PRIORITIZING SAFETY 
EVERYWHERE WE WORK 
THROUGH GOAL ZEROACHIEVING A POSITIVE  
WATER IMPACTTACKLING CARBON 
EMISSIONS
SUPPORTING A DIVERSE,  
INCLUSIVE WORKFORCEBy 2030, we aim to create a positive impact:
1  “Charting Our Water Future.” https://www.mckinsey.com/~/Media/Mckinsey/Dotcom/
client_service/Sustainability/Pdfs/Charting%20our%20water%20future/charting_our_
water_future_full_report_.Ashx, McKinsey, 2009.
We will measure our progress based on: 
Global sales data and business growth  
related to our water-saving technologies  
and industry-specific assumptions.
WATER
Help customers conserve 300 billion gallons 
of water, equivalent to the drinking water needs  
of 1 billion  people  
HEALTH
Help clean 50 billion  hands and provide safe 
medical care for 116 million  people each year, 
reducing more than 1.7 million  infectionsWe will measure our progress based on: 
The average number of healthcare  
instruments washed, chemistry sales  
and our business growth. 
We will measure our progress based on: 
Production data and business growth from our 
global Food & Beverage business, the number 
of meals served by Quick Service Restaurants 
and Food Retail Services customers and 
annual food consumption in the United States.FOOD
Help customers provide high-quality and safe 
food to 1.8 billion people  for an entire year,  
preventing 11 million foodborne illnesses
CLIMATE
We will measure our progress based on: 
Global sales data and business growth  
related to our energy-saving technologies  
and industry-specific assumptions.Help customers become carbon neutral by 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions by  
4.5 million  metric tonnes, preventing  
7.3 million  pollution-related illnesses 
7 ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  8OUR CUSTOMER IMPACT
Conserve  206 BILLION  gallons of water,  
equivalent to the drinking water needs  
of 712 MILLION people
Manage  1.1 TRILLION  gallons of water
Prevent more than  
7.5 MILLION  foodborne illnesses a year
Safely protect more than 36%  of the 
world’s packaged food and 44%  of  
the global milk supply
Support clean kitchens, serving  
58 BILLION  restaurant meals
Conserve more than  28 TRILLION  Btu of  
energy and avoid  1.5 MILLION  metric tonnes  
of greenhouse gas emissions
Reduce the water and energy footprint of  
40%  of the world’s petroleum production
Generate more than  
20%  of the world’s power
Clean more than  40 BILLION  hands, 
helping reduce 1.2 MILLION infections
Keep people safe in more than  
1 BILLION  clean hotel roomsClean  15 MILLION  patient rooms and 
3.5 BILLION  surgical instrumentsIn 2019, our partnership helped empower customers to:
WATER
FOOD
HEALTHCLIMATE
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  10 9Partnership. Expertise. Solutions that deliver the best results. We work 
every day to create value for our global customers, empowering them 
to achieve both environmental and operational goals and advance their 
sustainability ambitions. With our unique insights and technology, we 
provide next-generation solutions that deliver positive results and long-
term impact for our customers and the world.
Leading 
Through 
Partnership
EXPONENTIAL VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH  
INSIGHTS AND ACTION
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  12 11CASE STUDY
Powering reliable, clean  
energy with Exelon Generation
INSIGHT
From entire industries to individuals, power  
is crucial for our daily lives. As a leader 
in power generation, Exelon Generation 
is committed to generating safe, reliable 
energy. Exelon Generation also is the 
leading operator of carbon-free nuclear 
power plants in the United States. 
Environmental stewardship is a core 
value, and successfully managing its 
environmental impacts helps strengthen 
its relationship with customers and 
communities. It partnered with Nalco Water 
to improve equipment and water monitoringand treatment to help Exelon Generation 
provide safe, clean, low-cost energy and 
protect the environment. 
INNOVATION
To improve reliable, efficient performance, 
Exelon Generation uses a suite of  
Nalco Water’s most advanced technologies. 
From innovative chemistries, such as  
Nalco Water’s Purate™ chlorine dioxide 
program, which disinfects and treats 
cooling water, to 3D TRASAR™ Technology, 
which provides around-the-clock monitoring 
and control of chemistry performance, the 
teams work side-by-side to drive  
positive results. To ensure any changes 
or risks are identified and resolved early, 
Exelon Generation implemented the 
OMNI™ Condenser Analytics program, 
which continuously compares current 
performance to design performance, and 
proactively detects potential problems.
IMPACT
Through onsite expertise and  
technology, Nalco Water helped reduce 
Exelon Generation’s water use and  
minimize chemical consumption and 
waste, reducing its overall impact on the 
environment while continuing to deliver 
reliable, efficient and clean energy to its 
customers and communities.
FEATURED SOLUTIONS
• 3D TRASAR™ Technology
• Purate™ Technology
• OMNI™ Program
• Onsite expertise$760,000  
by minimizing risk of  
chemistry exposureWATERAnnual  
Savings
HUMAN HEALTH  
AND SAFETY
$4.98 millionVALUE DELIVEREDASSET PROTECTION
$420,000  
from reduced risk of corrosion  
and optimizing assetsPRODUCTIVITY
$2.1 million  
from improved efficiencyENERGY
11 million  
kWh due to shorter outages1.56 billion  
gallons (5.9 million m3) of water
13 ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  14Annual  
Savings
WATER
ENERGY
WASTE
VALUE DELIVEREDGREENHOUSE GASES
PRODUCTIVITY
ASSET PROTECTIONAdvancing sustainability  
and safety for GSKCASE STUDY CASE STUDY
INSIGHT
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) is a global healthcare 
company that discovers, develops and 
manufactures pharmaceuticals, vaccines 
and consumer healthcare products. 
Ensuring the safety of its products and 
processes is paramount. So is maximizing 
its long-term impact in improving health 
around the world. This includes a pledge  
to reduce its environmental impact by 25% 
by 2030, cutting greenhouse gas emissions, 
reducing water impact and redirecting 
waste for beneficial use.
INNOVATION
GSK’s sites must maintain specific 
temperatures to safely produce and store 
products. This means that boilers, cooling 
towers, chillers and other temperature-
related systems must operate consistently, 
which often requires a lot of water. 
GSK relies on Ecolab to operate safely 
and sustainably through a partnership 
that began in 2005 with Nalco Water, an 
Ecolab company. Today, GSK has more than 
130 3D TRASAR™ installations worldwide, 
monitoring water in its systems at all times. 
The technology has produced significant 
water and energy savings by reducing the 
need for maintenance and by reusing water 
and optimizing energy usage. It earned a 
Sustainability Supplier Award from GSK, 
which cited it as a solution that “addressed 
180 million  
gallons (700,000 m3) of water
3.9 billion  
Btu (1,110,000 kWh)
1,500  
plastic drums eliminated via  
PORTA-FEED™ program
202 
metric tonnes of CO2
3,000  
hours of labor gained by  
avoiding chemistry handling
$623,000carbon footprints and made bold strategic 
changes to reduce impact now and in  
the future.” 
Bringing together the expertise of both the 
Nalco Water and Life Sciences divisions, 
Ecolab enhanced cleaning and sanitation 
efficiency with Clean-in-Place and Open-
Plant Cleaning, and helped minimize the  
risk of waterborne pathogens with a 
Legionella Risk Management Program.  
IMPACT
GSK’s partnership with Ecolab has advanced 
its goals of reducing water and energy 
use and greenhouse gas emissions. GSK 
also reduced solid waste through Ecolab’s 
PORTA-FEED™ program, replacing plastic, 
single-use drums with steel, reusable bulk 
containers. This has reduced chemical drum 
disposal by at least 80% and has enhanced 
safety by eliminating the need for GSK 
employees to handle chemistry.
More than 
130 
3D TRASAR™ installations  
protecting cooling towers,  
boilers and chilled loopsEmpowering best-in-class food 
safety for True Food Kitchen
INSIGHT
As businesses increasingly prioritize ethical 
operations, supplier partnerships become 
both an area of increased scrutiny and 
an opportunity to bring an organization’s 
values to life. 
True Food Kitchen is a U.S.-based 
restaurant chain focused on delicious, 
flavorful food and conscious nutrition. 
Each location uses anti-inflammatory-rich 
ingredients in meals prepared in view of 
diners. With an emphasis on health, the 
safety of their food is their highest priority. 
True Food Kitchen was seeking a solution 
that would help them keep their customers 
and employees safe, while maintaining 
environmentally conscious operations.  
INNOVATION
Not only do proper food safety techniques 
help protect customers, they also can 
improve productivity. Using Ecolab 
solutions like the Daydots™ Prep-n-Print™ 
Systems, True Food Kitchen eliminated  
a time-consuming, manual labeling  
process, making sure that the shelf life  
and nutritional value of every ingredient  
is accounted for. 
3.36 million   
gallons (12,740 m3) of water
20,500  
lbs (9,320 Kgs) reduced waste
261 
metric tonnes of CO24.9 billion  
Btu of energy
29,100  
hours, equivalent to the annual hours 
worked by 14 full-time employees
$18,700  
in assets protectedWATER
ENERGY
WASTE
GREENHOUSE GASES
FOOD SAFETYPRODUCTIVITY
ASSET PROTECTION
$496,000VALUE DELIVEREDFood safety extends beyond food prep to 
the dishes that carry each meal. To ensure 
True Food Kitchen’s dishes were spotless, 
Ecolab installed the SMARTPOWER™ 
program on its dishmachines, to remove 
stains with a shorter, less water-intensive 
wash cycle.
To increase water savings further, Ecolab 
upgraded True Food Kitchen’s water 
softeners. By replacing older, less efficient 
“whole house” filtration, the new Point-
of-Use filtration system targets specific 
applications, reducing daily water use.
IMPACT
Ultimately, with the support of Ecolab’s 
solutions, True Food Kitchen can focus 
on what it does best: keeping customers 
satisfied and safe with healthy meals, 
all while saving time and upholding its 
sustainability pledge.17.7%  
higher performance rate  
than industry average
FEATURED SOLUTIONS  
• SMARTPOWER™ Program 
•  Daydots™ Prep-n-Print™ Systems;  
Prep-n-Print™ flex 
•  High capacity water softening,  
Point-of-Use model 
• GREASELIFT™ DegreaserAnnual  
Savings
FEATURED SOLUTIONS
•  3D TRASAR™ Water Management 
Technology
• Legionella Risk Management
• Clean-in-Place cleaning chemistry
• Open-Plant Cleaning
• Contamination control services
•  PORTA-FEED™ chemical delivery and 
storage system
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  16 15Annual  
SavingsAnnual  
SavingsUsing digital insights to help  
reduce hospital infection ratesCASE STUDY CASE STUDY
INSIGHT
Proper hand hygiene helps everyone 
stay healthy in daily life. But in hospitals, 
it’s critical. Hand hygiene is cited as the 
most effective way to prevent healthcare-
associated infections (HAIs), which can be 
contracted by patients receiving medical 
treatment.1 Every year, millions of patients 
globally acquire an HAI.2 On any given 
day, about one in 31 patients has at least 
one healthcare-associated infection with 
75,000 associated deaths in U.S. hospitals 
each year.3 
INNOVATION
To protect against the spread of infections, 
Ecolab developed the Hand Hygiene 
Compliance Monitoring System, an 
electronic hand hygiene reminder system 
designed to help hospitals achieve the 
highest level of sustained hand hygiene 
compliance. Electronic badges record 
individual hand hygiene practices around 
each patient bed, holding healthcare 
workers accountable and providing real-
time alerts and guidance for improvement 
to prevent unsafe patient interactions.
29%  
reduction in  
HAIs leading to   
$3.92 million  
saved
Increased and sustained rates  
of hand hygiene compliance to  
86–90%The reduced infections  
freed up space for  
1,189  
additional patient days,  
creating an opportunity for   
$2.55 million  
in additional revenuePROFITABILITY
IMPACT
Two years after the monitoring system’s 
installation in five U.S. hospitals with a total 
of 1,609 beds, a retrospective study found 
that hand hygiene compliance levels in all 
five U.S. hospitals increased to 86–90%.4 
By comparison, the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates 
that hand hygiene compliance rates in the 
average American hospital hover around 
40%.5 More importantly, all five hospitals 
also experienced a decrease in total annual 
HAI rates, indicating that a hand hygiene 
compliance monitoring system may help 
reduce the risk of HAIs and help improve 
patient safety. Other benefits include 
reducing the need for extended stays 
for HAI treatment, which opens up more 
beds for new patients, and enhancing 
productivity by eliminating the need for 
healthcare workers to manually monitor 
hand hygiene compliance through  
direct observation.
FEATURED SOLUTION
•  The Ecolab Hand Hygiene Compliance 
Monitoring System
1 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), https://www.cdc.gov/handhygiene/
2 World Health Organization, https://www.who.int/gpsc/country_work/gpsc_ccisc_fact_sheet_en.pdf
3 CDC, https://www.cdc.gov/hai/data/index.html?CDC_AA_refVal=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fhai%2Fsurveillance%2Findex.html
4 Demonstrating a Decrease in HAIs across 5 hospitals, 2019 Ecolab research study
5  Sickbert-Bennett E.E. et al. Reduction of healthcare-associated infections by exceeding high compliance with hand  
hygiene practices. Dispatch; Vol 22, Number 9, September 2016HUMAN HEALTH  
AND SAFETY
$6.47 million  
annuallyVALUE DELIVEREDWATER
ENERGY
GREENHOUSE GASES
PRODUCTIVITY
ASSET PROTECTION
VALUE DELIVEREDGenerating more than $1 million  
in savings for SABIC
INSIGHT
Around the globe, water stress is increasingly  
part of daily life, and industrial production 
plants must find ways to do more with  
less water. 
SABIC is one of the world’s largest 
petrochemical manufacturers. Many of 
SABIC’s large petrochemical complexes in 
the Middle East rely on seawater for their 
cooling towers. By its nature, seawater 
increases the risk of biofouling and 
scaling. SABIC needed innovative solutions 
to protect its assets from scaling and 
biofouling, while finding ways to reduce the 
water and energy footprint of its seawater 
cooling towers. 
INNOVATION
At SABIC’s largest petrochemical complex, 
the seawater cooling towers were 
responsible for 28% of the site’s total 
electricity consumption. Reusing more 
cooling tower water by increasing the 
number of recirculating cycles could  
reduce both water and energy use.
To improve system cleanliness, Ecolab 
introduced Purate™ Technology, an easy-
to-use, more cost-effective chlorine 
dioxide generation method that reduces 
chemical hazards for these large seawater 
systems. Purate™ Technology led to 
18.1 million   
gallons (68,600 m3) per hour  
of seawater make-up
18,300  
metric tonnes of CO226 million  
kWh of energy
Eliminating summer cooling  
bottleneck; allows estimated  
 $10 million  
production increase
$11.12 millionreduced biofouling on the surfaces of the 
heat exchange systems (which are used 
to transfer heat between two or more 
fluids). It also reduced manual cleanings 
and increased production rates in summer, 
when higher regional temperatures make 
cooling challenging.
In addition to Purate™, Ecolab implemented 
3D TRASAR™ Technology, coupled with a 
seawater scaling tool to safely model the 
number of recirculating cycles, saving water 
and energy. 
IMPACT
Along with 3D TRASAR™ Technology, 
Purate™ enabled the plant to increase 
recirculating cycles and reduce the volume 
of seawater intake. A cleaner system 
also allowed the plant to periodically 
turn off pumps and fans, significantly 
reducing energy use. Ecolab’s solutions 
led to total savings of $3 million in cooling 
tower operational costs, reduced water 
and chemistry usage, and improved 
overall energy usage while safeguarding 
summertime production rates. 
FEATURED SOLUTIONS  
• Purate™ Technology
• 3D TRASAR™ Technology
• Heat exchanger performance auditing
Biofouling control eliminating  
2–3 
cleanings per year,  
68%  
reduction in chemistry delivery  
truck movements saving  
$640,000  
in chemistry costs 
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  18 17We push ourselves to do better every day through our partnerships 
with customers and in our own operations. This extends to each of 
our facilities around the world, each new solution we invent and  
each person we employ. Sustainability is a value that guides all of  
our actions.HOW WE OPERATE, INNOVATE AND 
WORK TOGETHER
Advancing  
Our Purpose
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  20 19ALIGNING WITH THE UN SDG s
Partnering to meet the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals
JOINING THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S BUSINESS AMBITION FOR 1.5°C  
In 2019, Ecolab announced that it would align its operations and supply chain to the  
UN Global Compact’s Business Ambition for 1.5°C and reduce its carbon emissions by  
half by 2030 and to net-zero by 2050. 
To help meet its commitment, Ecolab will:
• Move to 100% renewable energy in its global operations.
 • Today, 99% of Ecolab’s electricity in Europe comes from renewable sources. 
 •  Our virtual power purchasing agreement (VPPA) with renewable energy producer  
Clearway will cover 100% of Ecolab’s annual electricity use in the United States.
• Expand energy efficiency projects at Ecolab sites.
• Move to electrify its fleet of service vehicles.
• Work with supply chain partners to adopt similarly ambitious climate goals.
•  Help customers across the world become more resilient by helping them conserve  
water, which, in turn, helps reduce energy and carbon emissions required to heat,  
treat, move and cool it. 
Aligns with SDG 13.2.1The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) address a range of global challenges with the 
aim of achieving a better and more sustainable future for all. Ecolab is committed to advancing programs 
and partnerships that fulfill these goals, in particular through our focus on ensuring access to clean, 
affordable water (SDG 6) and addressing climate change (SDG 13). 
Working to help customers save  
300 billion gallons of water by  
2030 through solutions that enable 
our customers to do more with  
less water and using less in our  
own operations. 
Aligns with SDGs 6.1, 6.4 and 6.5Goals 
Aligns with SDG 6.6Partnerships with organizations that  
provide resources and education about 
water resilience and conservation:  
The Nature Conservancy  — 
Mississippi Headwaters 
protection — Solutions for Life  
Project WET Foundation  — Educating 
global youth about water conservationPartnerships
Aligns with SDG 13.1Ecolab helped increase the water  
supply in the Upper Mississippi River 
Basin by 100 million gallons through  
a partnership with The Nature  
Conservancy at Loch Leven, Mississippi. 
See pages 25-26 for more information.Nature-Based Solutions
Aligns with SDG 13.2Ecolab has engaged in public action 
to combat climate change. In addition 
to joining the UN Global Compact’s 
Business Ambition for 1.5°C, Ecolab 
leadership participated in water and 
climate panels at the UN General 
Assembly and New York Climate 
Week in September 2019. Public EngagementAligns with SDGs 6.1, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6•  Member of the California Water  
Action Collaborative (CWAC) 
•  Founding member of the Alliance 
for Water Stewardship (AWS) (more 
information on pages 25–26)
•  Founding member of the Water 
Resilience Coalition through the  
UN CEO Water MandateCollective Action
Aligns with SDGs 6.1, 6.4 and 6.5Ecolab’s Water Risk Monetizer  helps 
businesses quantify water-related risks 
in financial terms to inform responsible 
decisions in a water-stressed world. 
waterriskmonetizer.com
The Smart Water Navigator  helps 
companies bridge the gap between 
water reduction goals and action at the 
facility level. smartwaternavigator.comPublicly Available Online ToolsSDG 6 calls for ensuring access to water and sanitation for all by 2030.  
Our expertise in managing a trillion gallons  of water for customers each  
year means that we are uniquely positioned to contribute to this goal. 
Some actions we are taking to promote responsible water use in support  
of SDG 6 include:Our 2019 Carbon 
Net Impact
In addition to our 
operational reductions,  
Ecolab helped 
customers reduce 
2.2x  more emissions 
than used in our  
own operations.
0SDG 13 calls for strengthening the global response to the threat of climate 
change through the adoption of affordable, scalable solutions. According 
to the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, to avoid the worst 
consequences of climate change, global warming must be capped at  
1.5°C (2.7°F) or less. 
Customer 
carbon 
emissions 
reduced:  
 1.5 MILLION  
metric tonnes 
CO2eEcolab helped 
our customers 
save  
206 BILLION   
gallons of water, 
equivalent to  
the drinking  
water needs of  
712 MILLION 
people
Our 2019 Water 
Net Impact
In addition to our 
operational reductions, 
Ecolab helped 
customers reduce   
82x more water  
than used in our  
own operations
Ecolab 
emissions:  
660,000  
metric  
tonnes CO2e0
Ecolab’s 2019 
operational  
water  
withdrawal:  
2.5 BILLION  
gallons
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  22 212020 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE
REDUCING WATER DEMAND
GARYVILLE, LOUISIANA  
Reduced water withdrawal by 20%   
by standardizing backwash technology 
to purify water from the Mississippi River 
and by implementing water recycling 
loops in the plant.NANJING, CHINA  
Reduced water withdrawal by 20%   
by reducing backwash water and reusing 
wastewater throughout the plant.JOLIET, ILLINOIS  
Reduced water withdrawal by 14%  
by installing internal water metering and 
spray balls (which clean more efficiently, 
reducing water use) in mix tanks.2019 initiatives that helped contribute toward our 2020 goals include:
For more information on our operational goals and achievements, please refer to our 2019 Corporate Responsibility GRI Report.INCREASING WATER SUPPLY
Increased supply in the Upper Mississippi River Basin  
by 100 MILLION GALLONS [379,000 CUBIC METERS]   
through a partnership with The Nature Conservancy at  
Loch Leven, Mississippi.Increased supply at the headwaters of the Mississippi 
River by 16 MILLION GALLONS [61,000 CUBIC METERS]  
through a contribution to the Minnesota Headwaters Fund in 
partnership with The Nature Conservancy.Progress toward our 2020 goals
10%
Our greenhouse gas emissions goal is focused on 
reducing scope 1 and 2 emissions in our operationally 
controlled facilities and fleet.WE ARE ON TRACK TO 
EXCEED OUR GOAL TO 
REDUCE GREENHOUSE 
GAS EMISSIONS BY 25%
Our positive water intensity impact goal is centered 
around reducing demand in our operations and increasing 
water supply in the watersheds in which we operate. WE ARE ON TRACK 
TO MEET OUR 
POSITIVE WATER 
IMPACT GOAL OF  
Our 2019  
Performance
2015 2020
Achieved 150% of 
2020 greenhouse 
gas emissions goal56% of the way 
toward reaching  
our 2020 water goalAs we approach the 
end of our 2020 goals, 
we are on track to 
meet our positive water 
impact goal and have 
significantly exceeded 
our greenhouse gas 
emissions goal.  
Note: Intensity is normalized  
to revenue.
-10% GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY2020 GOAL
-15% GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY2019 PERFORMANCE
-14% POSITIVE WATER IMPACT INTENSITY2019 PERFORMANCE-25% POSITIVE WATER IMPACT INTENSITY2020 GOALAs we set our sights on 2030 and the next phase of our sustainability journey, we continue to make 
progress toward our 2020 sustainability goals, which were set in 2015. In addition to creating value 
and exponential results for our customers, we work to achieve a positive environmental impact 
while enhancing productivity in our own facilities around the world.  
Our 2020 goals
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  24 2310
5461
3213
wate r inta ke and
wate r discharg eDrainag e
Direction of Stormwate r /
Natural Drainage
 Nalco Water
 to Garyville Canal
 to Hope  Canal
 to Dutch Bayou
 to Lake Maur epas
Lake
Mau repas
Mississippi River
 Plant Loca tion
Garyville
Mississippi River
Scal
e decr
ease
s with
 perspectivefrom front to back of 
graphic
.0 
  
    1
mileAlluviu m
Tertiary
Cretaceous
Salt (salt domes )
Mesozoic
Pale ozoic
Igneous  crus t
Subsur face geology  not drawn to scale
WATER STEWARDSHIP
Working together to build  
a water-resilient future
What makes a site a good candidate for a water stewardship project? The watershed map  
below highlights the unique components of Ecolab’s Garyville facility’s journey to receive  
Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) certification. In partnership with The Nature Conservancy,  
the project focused on water balance, water quality and the plant’s relationship with the local  
ecosystem and its stakeholders. 
OPERATING IN THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER BASIN
Ecolab’s manufacturing facility in Garyville, Louisiana, is a reaction plant that produces water  
treatment chemicals and polymers. The facility is located in the Mississippi River Watershed,  
which is the largest watershed in North America and integral to the economic and social health  
of the community. The facility’s process water is pulled directly from the Mississippi River and  
pre-treated on site. 
PROTECTING THE WATERSHED
The watershed faces a variety of risks, including:
• Natural disasters
• Accelerating impacts of climate change
• Water pollution
• Chemical spills
• Loss of local wetland species
Garyville has robust emergency response  
and business contingency plans to enhance  
the resiliency of the site.
DEVELOPING A NET POSITIVE  
WATER APPROACH
To contribute to the health of this water-stressed  
watershed, the Garyville plant adopted a three-  
pathway strategy with a net positive water approach: 
•  Increase water-use efficiency on site using Ecolab solutions 
•  Understand the shared water challenges in the basin and address  
them with nature-based solutions
• Implement the principles of the AWS standard
DELIVERING OUTCOMES THROUGH THE AWS STANDARD
Ecolab is a founding member of the AWS and has AWS certification at four sites, including Garyville.  
The AWS standard empowers sites with a five-step framework to address site-related water challenges  
and manage risk. Sites are required to reach out to stakeholders to discuss shared water challenges,  
forming relationships with the communities in which they operate.Adopting nature-based solutions
Within the Mississippi River Delta, the Lower Mississippi Alluvial 
Valley faces the potential loss of three critical wetland habitats, 
which would impact the health of numerous species. In partnership 
with The Nature Conservancy, Ecolab supports the Loch Leven 
project, working to restore and enhance 10,000 wetland acres  
and provide 12.1 billion gallons (45.8 million cubic meters) of flood 
storage capacity to local communities. Ecolab’s contribution to  
this work allows for 100 million gallons  (379,000 cubic meters)  
of water replenishment in the Upper Mississippi River Basin.
In partnership with
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  26 25HOW WE INNOVATE
2019 Innovations
The following are some of the innovations that helped support and address  
customers’ needs around digital insights, water scarcity and water safety : Ecolab is known for its history of developing chemistry and technology to solve customer 
challenges. Our solutions help improve operations, reduce business risk and minimize 
environmental impact. The insights we gather through digital technologies help customers  
in their own operations, enhancing business growth and sustainability.Impact through expertise 
and digital innovation
WATER HEALTH: RAPID BIO INTELLIGENCE
Preventing the development of biofilms — harmful bacteria that 
adhere to water system surfaces — is critical for the safe and 
efficient operation of cooling systems and for minimizing water  
and energy consumption and protecting equipment. 
Rapid Bio Intelligence  measures microbiological levels in cooling 
water and delivers results digitally to a smartphone in 15 minutes. 
This is significantly faster than other testing methods, which may 
take up to 48 hours.
By finding out about problems with bacteria levels in cooling water 
in real time, customers can take immediate action to address any 
issues before they become concerns. Rapid Bio Intelligence also 
offers enhanced accuracy and easy access to cloud-based records. 
WATER SAFETY INTELLIGENCE
Traditional water safety practices can be difficult and time-
consuming, requiring customers to compile and evaluate data  
from multiple sources. Getting a clear picture of water safety 
across an enterprise is even more complex, making it a challenge 
to decide whether and to what extent each site is in compliance 
with testing requirements. 
Water Safety Intelligence , powered by ECOLAB3D™, is a  
digital service that uses advanced analytics to help customers  
proactively manage and quickly address water safety.
Water Safety Intelligence accomplishes this by aggregating 
and evaluating data from multiple sources to help customers 
understand the risk for growth of Legionella, a bacterium that 
can cause Legionnaires’ disease, in their cooling water systems. 
Through advanced analytics, customers can monitor compliance 
with their water safety program at the site level and continuously 
assess their Legionella growth risk, empowering them to take 
proactive action before risks become problems.ECOLAB3D™: ECOLAB’S SECURE, CLOUD-BASED  
DIGITAL PLATFORM   
Helping customers minimize water, maximize results and 
optimize costs
ECOLAB3D™ is a cloud-based digital platform, developed with 
support from Microsoft and Accenture, that collects data from 
Ecolab’s tools and systems to create real-time alerts, enhance plant 
operations and benchmark performance across our customers’ 
sites. The platform is designed to enable customized solutions that 
address the specific business needs of customers, from food and 
beverage and power plants to manufacturing sites and hospitals.With the growing scarcity of freshwater worldwide, the ability for 
businesses to understand their water use and turn insights into 
action is key to smart water management.
ECOLAB3D™ helps improve how businesses monitor, manage 
and reduce water use to improve their operating performance 
and minimize their impact on the environment. It leverages the 
digital capabilities, innovative chemistry and remote monitoring 
of Ecolab’s 3D TRASAR™ Technology, an industry-leading, 
comprehensive water performance solution, to help drive global 
operational performance, improve assets and reduce water use. 
By turning insights into actionable outcomes, ECOLAB3D™ drives 
greater value and helps companies achieve their sustainability  
and operational goals.How we create  
customer-  
focused solutions
1,600
scientists, engineers  
and technical specialists
124
manufacturing facilities
10,000+
active patents
19
Global Technology and 
Innovation Centers
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  28 27Ecolab’s Smart Water Navigator is a publicly available tool that 
generates an actionable step-by-step guide for each facility, 
tailored by industry, location and current water performance.
smartwaternavigator.comDeveloped by Ecolab in partnership with Trucost and 
Microsoft, the Water Risk Monetizer helps businesses 
understand water-related risks and quantify them in financial 
terms to inform responsible decisions that enable growth.
waterriskmonetizer.comWATER MANAGEMENT TOOLS
Building an action plan for 
smart water management
With Ecolab’s water management tools and a plan for action, Digital Realty now has a more effective strategy to manage water at its 
data centers, a greater understanding of water in its organization and the ability to improve and protect its operations, watersheds  
and communities.Digital Realty, a leading global provider of data center, co-location and interconnection 
solutions, was on a mission to improve its water strategy, minimize overall water use, 
ensure reliable performance and protect its operations from water-related risk.  
The team developed a prioritized matrix that organized sites and 
helped them identify sites with the greatest operational water-
related risk.
Evaluate water use practices  
at every site using the  
Ecolab Smart Water Navigator
Use Nalco Water’s 3D TRASAR™  
Technology to provide water  
strategy effectivenessPartnering with Ecolab, they developed a three-step action plan: 
The tool helped the team focus on specific steps that local teams 
could take to improve water use and efficiency, tailored to each 
of their sites.
Nalco Water’s 3D TRASAR™ dashboards provided enterprise-wide 
visibility, measurement and monitoring of water use, helping the  
team track, trend and compare water use across all data centers  
and quantify savings from water projects. 
Prioritize at-risk facilities that  
required immediate action, using  
the Ecolab Water Risk MonetizerSTEP 1: RESULT:
RESULT:
RESULT:STEP 2:
STEP 3:DIGITAL REALTY WANTED TO:
•  Understand how much water was being used, and 
where, in its data centers
•  Increase water resiliency and redundancy to better 
respond to growing water quantity and quality issues
•  Improve monitoring and measurement through 
digital tools
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  30 29PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY
Designing products  
for people and the 
environment
Today, it’s more important than ever to focus on 
the total impacts of products and solutions. Ecolab 
designs our products with a holistic approach 
that takes into account the entire product 
lifecycle — from sourcing and manufacturing 
through product use and final disposal. This helps 
our customers make choices that lead to positive 
outcomes for people and the environment. 
In 2019, we introduced our Impacts That Matter  framework to assess the 
outcomes of our products. It includes eight science-based and outcome-
focused criteria to help our teams design products that minimize human and 
environmental impact. The framework is based on global best practices for 
product sustainability and utilizes scientific standards to communicate how 
our products impact people and the environment.
Requires 
No Personal
Protective
Equipment 
(PPE)
Biodegradable
When Used
as DirectedNot Toxic to 
Aquatic Life 
When Used
as DirectedProduct Contains 
No or Low 
PhosphorusReduced Waste
and Carbon
FootprintSimplified
Product UseFragrance
SafetyLow Volatile
Organic
Compounds
(VOC)
HUMAN HEALTH
ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETYImpacts That
MATTERPACKAGING INNOVATIONS
Our product sustainability efforts include continuous improvement to our packaging. We incorporate circular design principles  
in our packaging and continuously innovate to eliminate waste and increase reuse and recyclability for our solutions. 
Our history of innovation in 
products and packaging has 
enabled us to significantly 
reduce our plastic footprint. 
In 2019, we saved more than 
15.6 million pounds of newly 
produced plastic. Through 
formulation and packaging 
innovations, we have kept 
86.8 million pounds of plastic 
out of circulation since 2014.For more than 30 years 
we’ve been replacing single-
use plastic drums and 
totes with reusable drums, 
totes and PORTA-FEED™ 
containers for industrial 
chemicals that deliver  
best-in-class safety.Reducing plastics Reusable packaging
Quadexx™ Pro highlights the power of systems engineering to 
meet both our plastic reduction goals and our Impacts That 
Matter criteria, all while delivering value to our customers. Quadexx™ Pro is an automated, modular chemical dispensing 
and formulation tool that helps food and beverage plants 
reduce sanitation costs and improve plant efficiencies while 
delivering safety and sustainability benefits.
The system enables customers to make more than 100 products  
using only eight concentrated chemicals, provided in reusable  
         packages. And it enhances worker safety by automatically  
        dispensing pre-diluted chemistry. A system designed to enhance food safety and improve sustainability 
For more information, please refer to our 2019 Corporate Responsibility GRI Report15.6 
million  
pounds of  
newly produced  
plastic saved
86.8  
million  
pounds of  
plastic kept out  
of circulation  
since 2014
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  32 31A DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE WORKFORCE
Building a diverse  
and inclusive workforce
A diverse, inclusive workforce is a critical foundation for the shared success of our associates, our company, our 
customers and our communities. To build that strong foundation, we have embedded diversity and inclusion principles 
into our recruitment, leadership training and talent development programs. We’re increasing our efforts to educate 
and equip our teams globally to create workplaces where all associates can thrive and reach their full potential.
For more information, please refer to our 2019 Corporate Responsibility GRI ReportTo ensure that we are accelerating diversity and inclusion in all 
of our operations, senior leadership meets monthly to assess 
our progress on key metrics and practices, including diversity 
representation, hiring practices and retention. 
We have embedded diversity and inclusion guidance in our 
recruitment, leadership training and talent development programs.  
•  This year, more than 3,000 managers  took our new diversity  
and inclusion training as part of our Manager Essentials program. 
•  In addition, we launched a new Leader Coach training  
course , reinforcing the Manager Essentials diversity and  
inclusion training.
Our diversity and inclusion efforts have been recognized by  
the Diversity Best Practices Top 10% Inclusion Index, Bloomberg 
Gender Equality Index and others. We continue to put what we 
learn into practice, including enhancing U.S. adoption and fertility 
assistance benefits.
2019 milestones and achievements
NO SIGNIFICANT GENDER PAY GAP
A 2018 third-party review of compensation in the U.S. 
confirmed that Ecolab pays associates equitably, regardless 
of gender or race. We expanded on that work in 2019 to 
measure our performance globally and we are conducting 
this comprehensive U.S. review every two years, with the 
next review scheduled for 2020.
EXPANDED DIVERSITY IN  
OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Our Board of Directors is now 38% women and 15% people 
of color and continues its practice of formally reviewing  
our global representation metrics twice a year. We ended  
the year with 19% women at the executive level, up from  
17% in 2018.  
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS  
GREW BY 16% WORLDWIDE
Our 10 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) represent  
Ecolab’s diverse culture and provide opportunities for 
associates to develop professionally, share business insights, 
drive engagement and experience a sense of belonging.  
With nearly 6,500 members and 72 global chapters, our  
ERG membership grew by 16% in 2019. 
DIFFERENTIATED DEVELOPMENT  
CONFERENCES FOR WOMEN
In 2019, two of our U.S. divisions joined forces to host 
differentiated development conferences for women in  
our field sales organizations, building on the success of  
the first event held in 2018.
BUSINESS COALITION FOR  
THE EQUALITY ACT 
We joined the Human Rights Campaign’s Business Coalition 
for the Equality Act.Helping people and 
communities in need
MORE THAN 345,000  pounds of 
Ecolab product donations VALUED  
AT $1.7 MILLION went to worldwide 
relief efforts, in partnership with  
World Emergency Relief.
For more information, please refer to our 2019 Corporate Responsibility GRI ReportEducate
We support initiatives that improve 
access to educational programming 
and provide youth access to arts and 
environmental learning opportunities.$2.6 million   
Toward improving lives through 
support of youth and education 
STEM programs, early childhood 
education, college access, and 
nature and conservation education  
Enable
Our efforts strengthen communities and help bring sustainable 
practices to life through grants and education. 
450+  
nonprofit organizations 
assisted by Ecolab 
Foundation grants$3 million  
donated by employees to  
2,500 organizations through  
our Community Giving Program,  
with the Ecolab Foundation 
matching an additional $1 million$9 million  
granted to global organizations 
through the Ecolab Foundation 
Nonprofit Grant ProgramEngage  
Our employees are committed to taking personal action to help  
people in need and restore natural habitats. 
62,000   
hours7,260  
volunteers310   
projects$1.6 million  
value of volunteer hours
ECOLAB  
ACTION AREAS 
Employee Volunteerism  
In-Kind Product Donations and  
Corporate Donations ECOLAB FOUNDATION  
FOCUS AREAS  
 Youth and Education  
Civic and Community Development  
Arts and Culture  
Environment and Conservation2019 IMPACT:  
more than  
$13 million   
to support  
communities  COMMUNITY RELATIONS
Partnering to 
strengthen our 
communitiesWe support programs and practices that 
protect people and the planet in the 
communities in which we operate. Through 
corporate giving and grants, product 
donations and volunteerism, Ecolab helps 
improve ecosystems, foster education and 
support healthy and vibrant communities.
Our 2019 efforts:
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  34 33SAFETY
SAFETY
Our commitment to  
safety excellence
From the way we operate to the products we develop to the customers we serve,  
our commitment to safety is uncompromising. We strive for zero incidents, reducing 
risk and empowering team members so that everyone goes home safely at the end  
of the day, every day.
In 2019, we continued our commitment to safety excellence:2018 2019 % CHANGE
NORTH AMERICA 1.55 1.48 -4%
EUROPE 0.90 0.80 -11%
ASIA PACIFIC* 0.50 0.63 26%
GREATER CHINA 0.23 0.14 -39%
LATIN AMERICA 0.99 0.62 -37%
MIDDLE EAST  
AND AFRICA*0.35 0.58 66%
ECOLAB TOTAL 1.14 1.06 -7%TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE  
(NUMBER OF INJURIES AND ILLNESSES PER 100 WORKERS)
* The relatively low number of incidents reported drive a larger year-over-year 
percentage change2018 2019 % CHANGE
NORTH AMERICA 2.79 2.52 -10%
EUROPE 5.00 4.21 -16%
ASIA PACIFIC 2.06 1.84 -11%
GREATER CHINA 1.80 1.17 -32%
LATIN AMERICA 2.88 2.32 -19%
MIDDLE EAST  
AND AFRICA2.52 2.41 -4%
ECOLAB TOTAL 3.08 2.68 -13%TOTAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE  
(PER MILLION MILES DRIVEN)
Ecolab has a corporate-wide goal of zero accidents and injuries. In 
2019, there was one fatality. Data for 2018 was amended to account 
for acquisitions and divestitures. All global operations conform to 
OSHA injury reporting standards. The data above cannot be broken 
down by gender and does not include independent contractors. 
2018 2019 % CHANGE
NORTH AMERICA 0.80 0.58 -28%LOST-TIME INJURY RATE  
(NUMBER OF INJURIES WITH LOST DAYS PER 100 WORKERS)
As Ecolab transitioned to a web-based platform for injury  
and incident reporting, we identified opportunities to improve  
the consistency of tracking lost-time injury rates outside of  
North America. This improvement will continue in 2020.
2018 2019 % CHANGE
ECOLAB TOTAL 0.12 0.07 -42%SEVERE VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE   
(NUMBER OF SEVERE VEHICULAR ACCIDENTS PER MILLION  
MILES DRIVEN)
Severe Vehicle Accident definition includes: 
• Fatalities
• Bodily injury
• Vehicle rollover•  Incident involved drugs and/
or alcohol
•  Environmental spill to ground 
or waterwayLEADERSHIP TRAINING
Safety leadership training helps managers understand how  
to increase the safety culture within their teams. 
•  100%  of managers and employees engaged in improving  
safety performance took a half-day course. TRAINING FOR NEW HIRES
Every Ecolab division provides basic safety training to newly  
hired sales and service personnel.  
•  In 2019, 97%  of new hires completed the training within their first 
30 days of employment, falling just short of our target of 100%. Our personal injury rate decreased 7%  and our lost-time injury rate decreased 28% .  
Training plays a big role in our efforts to reduce accidents and injuries. Our programs include: Through training 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Engagement is crucial to creating and maintaining a culture of safety.
•  85% of Ecolab employees were found to be “highly engaged” 
around safety in our most recent global engagement survey. The 
safety engagement score was the highest engagement category 
within Ecolab and is 7%  higher than the Fortune 500 benchmark.In our culture
85%
of Ecolab employees were found to be 
“highly engaged” around safety in our 
most recent global engagement survey.On the road
We reduced our total vehicle accident rate  
by 13%  and our severe vehicle accident rate  
by 42% , per million miles driven. ADDITIONAL ACHIEVEMENTS
100%  
of drivers targeted completed 
their required Behind-the-  
Wheel training course30%  
Our expanded predictive 
driver safety program for sales 
associates in North America 
reduced accidents by 30%  
in the pilot group
SAFETY ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Since 2013, we’ve achieved:
Since 2016, we’ve achieved:59%decrease in Severe 
Vehicle Accident Rate
37%decrease in Total 
Recordable Injury Rate
20%decrease in Total 
Vehicle Accident Rate
43%decrease in Lost-Time 
Injury Rate
ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  36 35AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Ecolab is proud to be acknowledged for our leadership, innovation, corporate social responsibility 
and commitment to sustainability. Recent recognitions we have received include: A partner our  
customers can trustSUMMARY
This summary provides highlights of Ecolab’s 2019 Corporate 
Sustainability Report, focused on where we have the greatest 
impact in the world: our customers, our operations and the 
communities in which we live.
Ecolab’s comprehensive 2019 Corporate Sustainability 
Report, for reporting period January 1 through December  
31, 2019, is available at www.ecolab.com/sustainability .  
The report has been completed in alignment with the 
guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI Standards. 
In keeping with our commitment to transparency and 
disclosures, Ecolab responds to the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index RobecoSAM Sustainability Assessment, the CDP’s 
Carbon, Water and Supply Chain surveys, MSCI and 
Sustainalytics. In addition, we are a signatory of the  
United Nations Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate  
and file an annual Communication on Progress as part of 
those commitments. 
The customer impact stories included in this summary are 
supported by comprehensive case studies. 
The conditions, procedures, and results described in each 
customer impact story accurately reflect the anticipated 
results of Ecolab’s products and services under these specific 
conditions, some or all of which may be unique to each story. 
Comparable results can be expected under  comparable 
conditions, but results may vary.MATERIALITY
At Ecolab, sustainability is core to our business strategy of 
delivering solutions that help companies around the world 
achieve great results and operate more sustainably. The 
work we do matters, and the way we do it matters to our 
employees, customers, investors and communities. 
The parameters of our 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 
have been established based on a strategic assessment of the 
issues our stakeholders have said they care most about, are 
of greatest relevance to our business strategy and align with 
our purpose to make the world cleaner, safer and healthier. 
This approach to materiality aligns with our corporate 
sustainability strategy to address some of the world’s most 
pressing and complex challenges through our own operations 
and the solutions that we provide to customers. 
For more information on our approach to sustainability  
and materiality assessment, please refer to our  
2019 Corporate Responsibility GRI Report.A WORLD’S MOST ETHICAL COMPANY
For the 13th consecutive year, Ecolab was named 
to Ethisphere Institute’s list of the World’s Most 
Ethical Companies.  A WORLD’S MOST ADMIRED COMPANY
Ecolab was again named to Fortune’s list of 
the World’s Most Admired Companies, ranking 
second in the chemicals industry.A BEST COMPANY TO SELL FOR
Ecolab was again recognized as a  
Best Company to Sell For by Selling  
Power Magazine.Business recognition
Sustainability recognition
A MOST SUSTAINABLE CORPORATION
Ecolab was named to Corporate Knight’s  
Global 100 list of the World’s Most  
Sustainable Corporations.CDP WATER SECURITY A LIST
Ecolab was named to the CDP Water Security 
A List, which recognizes organizations for 
sustainable water management initiatives.
A MOST SUSTAINABLE COMPANY
Ecolab ranked 26th on Barron’s 2019 list  
of the 100 Most Sustainable Companies.A LEADING SUSTAINABLE COMPANY
Ecolab was named to the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices North America Index.
A BEST CORPORATE CITIZEN
Ecolab ranked 8th on Corporate  
Responsibility Magazine’s list of  
the Best Corporate Citizens. A LEADING ESG COMPANY
For the fifth consecutive year, Ecolab was 
named to the FTSE4Good Index, which 
recognizes companies for demonstrating strong 
environmental, social and governance practices.  
Workplace recognition
A BEST EMPLOYER FOR DIVERSITY
For the second consecutive year, Ecolab was 
named to Forbes’ list of the Best Employers  
for Diversity.A BEST PLACE TO WORK  
Ecolab was again named a Best Place to Work for 
LGBT Equality by the Human Rights Coalition for 
its perfect score on the Corporate Equality Index. A BEST EMPLOYER FOR WOMEN
For the second consecutive year, Ecolab was named 
to Forbes’ list of the Best Employers for Women.
BLOOMBERG GENDER-EQUALITY INDEX
Ecolab was named to Bloomberg’s 2020 Gender-
Equality Index (GEI). NEWSWEEK WORLD’S MOST  
RESPONSIBLE COMPANIES
Ecolab was included on Newsweek’s first ranking 
of America’s Most Responsible Companies.AN INCLUSIVE COMPANY
Ecolab ranked in the top 10% on the  
Diversity Best Practices Inclusion Index.
37 ECOLAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019  38TMThis report was printed by a WBENC-certified firm. 
Printed using agri-based inks on FSC®-certified paper.
Global Headquarters
1 Ecolab Place, St. Paul, MN 55102
www.ecolab.com  1 800 2 ECOLAB
©2020 Ecolab USA Inc.  All rights reserved. 55588/0800/0320Our 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report and complete GRI Index  
can be found at www.ecolab.com/sustainability.
We’re driven to empower businesses around  
the world to do more and be better. There’s  
a lot riding on industry’s ability to be resilient — 
meeting people’s needs while protecting the 
public health and preserving natural resources. 
Our global team is dedicated to helping our 
customers thrive and make a positive impact  
in the world. 
Together, we’re partners for greater purpose.