Leading in a Changing WorldPARTNERS FOR GREATER PURPOSE2020CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT |1
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
 OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
2 ABOUT THIS REPORT
3 Letters from Ecolab’s Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Sus
tainability Officer
5 Combat
ting the Covid-19 Pandemic
6 About Ecolab
8 OUR APPROA CH
9 Sustainability Approach and Governance
10 Incentiv
es and Clean Revenue
11 Stak
eholder Engagement
12 Sust
ainability Materiality Assessment
13 eROI: Cre
ating and Measuring Value
14 Sust
ainable Development Goals
15 Our 203
0 Sustainability Goals
18 External Initiative
s 
20  Awar
ds and Recognition 21 ENVIRONMENT
22 Environmental Management
23 Energy and Emissions
3
1 Water
3
7 Materials Use and W
aste
40 Chemical Por
tfolio Management  
41 Product Design and Lif
ecycle Management
43 Biodiver
sity
44 SOCIAL
45 Talent Recruitment and Retention
47 Benefit
s
48 Compensation and Labor R
elations
49 Diversit
y, Equity and Inclusion
52 Social Justic
e and Allyship
53 Employee Engagemen
t
54 Human Capital De
velopment
56 Health and Saf
ety
60 Community In
volvement62 GOVERNANCE
63 Human Rights
64 Integrity and Ethics
65 Data Privacy and Security 
66 Supplier Relations
68 Supplier Diversity 
69 Political Action
70  Global Tax and Compliance
71 
APPENDIX
72 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
 (SASB) Reference Table 
7
4 World Economic Forum (WEF) Reference Table 
75 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
83 Reporting Changes and Restatements
84 Report Verification
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |2
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ABOUT THIS REPORT
The Ecolab Corporate Responsibility Report documents Ecolab’s environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) performance on an annual, calendar year basis. 
This report includes Ecolab’s performance from 1 January – 31 December 2020, 
unless otherwise stated, and covers Ecolab’s global entities of which we have 
operational control, including our global offices, manufacturing plants and research, 
development and engineering facilities. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Standards: Core option and includes material Sustainability Disclosure Topics 
and Accounting Metrics from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
Chemicals and Professional Services Standards. Additionally, this report addresses 
core Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics released by the World Economic Forum and 
its International Business Council in 2020 and considers recommendations and 
supporting disclosures of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
In keeping with our commitment to transparency and disclosures, Ecolab reports ESG 
performance data to the annual S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment 
and CDP’s Climate Change, Water Security and Supply Chain surveys. In addition, we 
are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and file an annual Advanced 
Communication on Progress. 
Information in this report is current as of the date of its initial publication, 1 June 
2021. The report has not been updated to refl ect any changes since that date, 
including any changes to Ecolab’s business or strateg y. Ecolab assumes no obligation 
and does not intend to update this report to reflect any such changes. All references 
to dollars are to U.S. dollars.FOR MORE INFORMATION
• 2
020 ESG Overview
• 2020 Corporate Sustainability Overview
•2020 Annual Report and Form 10-K
•2020 CDP Climate Change Report
•2020 CDP Water Security Report
•2020 SASB Reference Table
•2020 WEF Reference Table
•2020 GRI Index
•2019 Corporate Responsibility GRI Report
•2019 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  | 3WORKING TOWARD A HEALTHIER WORLD WITH 
OUR CUSTOMERS, TEAMS AND COMMUNITIES
We are living in a time of change. This past year saw many organizations and individuals reflecting on 
the ways we live and work. We’ve seen renewed focus on the ways in which organizations respect the environment, treat people and uphold ethical practices. This year marks my transition to a new role as Ecolab’s chief executive officer. I am optimistic about our future, because sustainability has always been core to Ecolab’s purpose: Working with our customers, teams and communities to help make the world cleaner, safer and healthier.   
Building a flourishing, sustainable future that offers uncompromised quality of life for all certainly won’t 
be easy. But we see opportunities where others see challenges. And we know that our greatest impact comes from working together. In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic required us to rethink how we collaborate, from implementing remote work when possible to launching new partnerships and initiatives.  
With our customers, we ensured our ability to safely serve customers and meet increased demand 
for our critical cleaners, disinfectants and hygiene solutions, which rose five to 15 times above normal volumes. And we established the Ecolab Science Certified
TM program, a comprehensive, 
science-based program that helps deliver a higher level of cleanliness to help keep employees and customers safe. To help protect our people, we enhanced our stringent cleaning and sanitizing protocols, provided personal protective equipment and implemented social distancing. We also supported our team through pay protection and expanded healthcare coverage.  
We continue to look for opportunities to serve in our communities, whether working to protect at-risk 
watersheds where we operate through our founding membership in the Water Resilience Coalition, part of the United Nations Global Compact CEO Water Mandate, or committing to make faster, deeper progress to advance racial and social justice. We continue to make progress on our goals to achieve representation and gender parity within our workforce, and ensuring that diversity, equity and inclusion is embedded in our culture, from our board oversight to how we hire to how we train our people leaders.  
Embedding sustainability into everything we do has never been more important. From the very 
beginning, Ecolab has operated with environmental and economic impact in mind and we are uniquely positioned to help enable our customers to build resilient operations and achieve safe and sustainable outcomes while reducing costs and increasing efficiency. When Ecolab grows, so does our positive impact. I look forward to continuing to partner with our customers, teams and communities, so we can all thrive in our changing world.
Sincerely, Christophe Beck
President and Chief Executive Officer
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |4HELPING ADDRESS OUR WORLD’S CHALLENGES 
AROUND WATER, FOOD, HEALTH AND CLIMATE
In a year when society focused on distancing and isolation, we have seen countless examples of 
ways that our world is connected. The health of our environment can present benefits or risks to our businesses, businesses can have an enormous impact on how our communities thrive, our communities can influence the success of a business and so on.  
It feels fitting that 2020 was also the year that we launched our 2030 Impact Goals, our most 
ambitious sustainability goals to date, focused on how we can work in our own operations and with our customers to address interconnected global challenges around water, food, health, climate, diversity, equity and inclusion and safety.  
As we worked to navigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we made progress on our goals 
with our customers, helping them save 206 billion gallons (780,000 cubic meters) of water, provide safe food to 1.3 billion people, clean 66 billion hands and avoid 3.5 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions. 
And we made progress on our work to achieve a positive water impact, tackle carbon emissions, 
support a diverse and inclusive workforce and prioritize safety everywhere we work. A few highlights from 2020 include: •
C
o-founding the Water Resilience Coalition, part of the UN Global Compact CEO Water
Mandate, to bring together multinational corporations in an industry-led movement to combatthe global water crisis through ambitious, quantifiable commitments and collective action
•
P
artnering with renewable energy producer Clearway Energy Group on our virtual power
purchasing agreement (VPPA) to cover 100% of Ecolab’s annual electricity use in the UnitedStates and Canada
•
Holding our fir
st Day of Understanding event to facilitate dialogue about racism against Black
and African American people in the U.S.
•9
7% of new hires completing safety training within their first 30 days of employment
As companies are increasingly strengthening their sustainability ambitions, Ecolab is perfectly positioned to help them deliver on their commitments. And as we walk the walk in our own operations, we are supporting – and accelerating – our customers on their own paths every step of the way.
Sincerely, Emilio Tenuta
Senior Vice President and Chief 
Sustainability Officer 
 |5
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
In 2020, we recognized the important role that Ecolab would play in helping our customers and 
teams respond to the unprecedented and urgent challenges presented by the COVID-19 virus. We have and will continue to support our customers, teams and communities through shared resources, solutions and services.
Protecting our Teams
The safety of our teams is a top priority. We helped protect our associates by: 
•
Increasing the frequency and thor
oughness of
cleaning in our facilities
•Enhancing safety at E
colab and customer sites
through rigorous protocols and safety practices
•Providing personal pr
otective equipment to
essential employees
•Requiring those who could w
ork from home to
do so
•Instituting a pay pr
otection program for
employees whose pay was dramatically affected
by the pandemic
•Expanding healthcare benefits and sickpay provisionsSupporting our Customers
Our customers count on our products and expertise 
to help protect their employees and keep operations 
running. Th
is includes hospitals, labs, food and 
beverage operations an d critical infrastructure like 
data centers, power plants and water-treatment 
facilities. W
e helped enable business continuity while 
protecting the safety of our customers by:
• Establishing Ecolab Science CertifiedTM, a 
comprehensive, s cience-based p
rogram that helps 
deliver a
 higher level of cleanliness to help keep 
employees and customers safe
•Accelerating and expanding production of hand
sanitizers, s
urface disinfectants and hand soaps
•Providing e
xpert consultation and solutions
using our a
dvanced remote monitoring and
servicing c
apabilities to effectively support
customer operations
• Developing c
omprehensive training programs to 
help our customers protect their employees and 
guests and r
estore safe and profitable operations
• Providing s
olutions to help ensure sterile
environments as pharmaceutical manufacturers
worked to develop COVID-19 vaccinesServing our Communities
Ecolab also helped support communities throughout 
the COVID-19 pandemic through product donations and other initiatives by:
•
Contributing to the R
estaurant Employee Relief
Fund and the Change is On the Menu fundraising
campaign
•Helping the Four Seas
ons Hotel New York
develop procedures to ensure the safety of thehealthcare professionals it housed during thepandemic
•
Donating $11.3 million in critical cleaning,s
anitizing and public health products to support
worldwide relief efforts
•Providing $5 million in gr
ant funding to
organizations that provided COVID-19 relief andsupported basic needsCOMBATTING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
Learn more about our 2020 health and safety initiatives
Learn more about how we surpassed our health Impact Goal in one yearLearn more about our 2020 community engagement efforts
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ECOLAB IS EVERYWHERE IT MATTERS
Founded in 1923 and headquartered in St. Paul, Minnesota, Ecolab Inc. (NYSE: ECL) 
is the global leader in hygiene, infection prevention and water solutions and services that protect people and vital resources and a trusted partner at nearly 3 million customer locations.
Ecolab’s 44,000 associates deliver comprehensive solutions, data-driven insights and 
personalized service to advance food safety, maintain clean and safe environments, optimize water and energy use and improve operational efficiencies and sustainability for customers in the food, healthcare, hospitality and industrial markets in more than 170 countries. 
From restaurants, hotels and healthcare facilities to food and beverage plants and 
manufacturing facilities across the globe, Ecolab’s 24,000 direct sales-and-service associates, the industry’s largest and best trained, utilize innovative technologies and digital solutions to help solve the most pressing operational and sustainability challenges our customers face. Many of the world’s most recognizable companies rely on Ecolab to help ensure product quality, operational efficiencies, sustainability and brand reputation.
24,000 
sales-and-service 
associates
For more information, visit ecolab.com or call 1.800.2.ECOLAB. 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  | 6$185 million
invested in R&D, or1.6%
of sales10,000+
p
atents 300
digit
al technology 
professionals1,200
s
cientists, engineers and 
technical specialistsECOLAB BY THE NUMBERS
Follow us on LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. |7
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
OUR EXPERTISE
Our w
ork is crucial for the health of our changing 
world. We are well positioned to help customers 
solve their operational and sustainability goals 
while meeting the growing demand around water, 
food, health and climate. Organizations face 
increasing challenges due to climate change and 
natural resource availability. Ecolab solutions help 
our customers adopt processes to reduce water 
and energy use, which helps increase operational 
efficiency, reduce environmental impact and protect 
our world’s vital resources. 
Our solutions and expertise around food safety is critical 
to the reputations of businesses that manufacture, 
s
ell or serve food and beverages and help protect t he 
health and well-being of people everywhere. 
Finally
, we know that clean environments are key to 
both business success and daily health whether in the 
hospitality industry or in hospitals. Ecolab’s innovative 
cleaning, laundry, ware washing and hygiene solutions 
play an important role in ensuring everyone – from 
employees to guests – stays safe.OUR BUSINESSES
Global Institutional & Specialty
Provides specialized cleaning and sanitizing products 
to the foodservice, hospitality, lodging, government, education and food retail industries. 
Global Industrial 
Provides water treatment and process applications and cleaning and sanitizing solutions primarily to large industrial customers within the manufacturing, food and beverage processing, transportation, chemical, primary metals and mining, power generation, global refining, petrochemical and pulp and paper industries. 
Global Healthcare & Life Sciences  
Provides specialized cleaning and sanitizing products to the healthcare, personal care and pharmaceutical industries. 
Other
Provides pest elimination services to the foodservice, food and beverage processing, healthcare, lodging, grocery and other commercial settings through the Pest Elimination business. Commercial laundry wash process products and services are provided by the Textile Care business for uniform and linen rental, hospitality and healthcare laundries. Colloidal silica for binding and polishing applications is provided through our Colloidal Technologies Group for semiconductor, aerospace and other industries.OUR OPERATIONS
Ecolab operates an extensive, integrated global supply chain, which comprises more than 300 manufacturing plants, distribution centers and other facilities owned and operated by Ecolab to support the company’s direct sales, marketing and distribution activities. In addition, we have 1,300 offices and R&D centers globally. We have operations in 105 countries across North America, Europe, Greater China, Asia Pacific, Latin America and India, Middle East and Africa. 
We have more than 20,000 supply chain partners, 
procure more than $3.3 billion of direct raw  
material, contract manufacturing and equipment from more than 9,000 suppliers worldwide and manage distribution through various channels to external customers. 
ACQUISITIONS AND 
DIVESTMENTS
In May 2020, we purchased the global livestock 
biosecurity and hygiene provider CID Lines. Headquartered in Ypres, Belgium, CID Lines 2019 sales were approximately $113 million. Through this acquisition, we formed a new Animal Health business unit within our Food & Beverage division to add swine and poultry livestock biosecurity to our existing dairy farm offerings. 
In June 2020, we completed the separation of the 
Upstream Energy business, which simultaneously combined with Apergy Corporation in a tax-free transaction. The combined company, renamed ChampionX, is a global leader in oilfield production-optimization solutions.ACQUISITIONS AND 
DIVESTMENTS
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |8OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Our greatest opportunity to drive 
sustainable development is through our products and services. We deliver innovative solutions that help companies around the world achieve exception-al business results while minimizing environmental and social impact. And by the nature of our work, we are address-ing some of the world’s most pressing sustainability challenges, including water scarcity and climate change. We are also committed to using our solutions and expertise to advance sustainability in our own operations.Our Approach
SUSTAINABILITY IS CORE TO 
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |9
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
OUR APPROACH
The Work We Do Matters
•W e make the world cleaner, safer and healthier.
•W
e protect vital resources and ensure water and
energy are available everywhere.
•Our pr
oducts and services prevent disease and
infection.
•W
e keep food supplies safe and protect the places
where people eat, sleep, work, play and heal.
•W
e touch what is fundamental to quality of life: we
keep people healthy.
•W
e enhance well-being. We provide assurance, so
life can be lived fully.
•W
e help our customers succeed. We reduce risk and
worry and free them to grow.
How We Work Matters, Too
•W e work with purpose. When there’s a goal, we
reach it. When there’s a problem, we solve it.
•W
e work safely and take care in all we do.
•W
e strive to do what’s right, what’s fair, what’s honest.
•W
e take action together. In teams. Teams made
stronger by diverse perspectives.
•W
e find inspiration and energy in what we do and
how we do it. In growing, learning and celebratingtogether. In making a difference and serving thegreater good.OUR PRINCIPLES
Economic
Drive economic growth for our customers, employees, shareholders and communities
Environmental 
Promote stewardship of natural resources and protect the environment
Safety
Ensure safe processes that protect our employees, contractors, customers and communities
Social
Enhance the well-being of people and communitiesSUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
W
hile the full Board of Directors monitors the 
company’s progress on sustainability, the Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Committee has the highest level of direct responsibility for sustainability policies, programs and practices that affect, or could affect, Ecolab employees, customers, stockholders and neighboring communities. The Board receives an annual presentation from this committee on the company’s progress against its sustainability goals and implementation of projects and related activities. The committee members are appointed by the Board and are comprised of no fewer than three directors. The SHE Committee is responsible for assuring the corporation’s compliance with applicable safety, health and environmental laws and regulations and monitoring such compliance. See our SHE Committee Charter for additional information.
Ecolab’s sustainability strategy includes 
environmental, social and governance components and is governed by a Sustainability Executive Advisory Team (SEAT) that is made up of 10 members of the company’s executive leadership team including our Senior Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer. The SEAT meets with the Corporate Sustainability team on a quarterly basis. Outputs of these meetings are reported by the Senior Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer to the SHE Committee of the Board. The Corporate Sustainability team is comprised of research and development, communications, marketing and supply chain functions and is responsible for operationalizing sustainable business practices and policies across the company, coordinating and communicating policy and decision-making related to sustainability, setting goals and metrics for key priorities and assessing sustainability trends and  
risk management.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |10
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
INCENTIVES 
Ecolab is unique in that its value proposition 
for customers has, for nearly a century, been to fundamentally improve their sustainability. Our products are designed to provide not only the best performance for our broad range of customers, but to do so in a manner using less of the customers’ resources. Through our work, we have a major impact on customers’ water and energy use, and thereby can leverage the environmental work we perform in our own operations. 
To promote sustained company success, strategic 
sustainability indicators are part of how we measure performance which is used to determine compensation for senior leaders and employees. Certain functional leaders and facilities managers have their goals aligned with our corporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) goals, including our 2030 Impact Goals. In addition, bonus components for select employees are tied to continuous improvement efforts, including in water and energy efficiency (carbon emissions reductions) leading to achievement of targets at the facility and regional level.
CLEAN REVENUE 
Ecolab defines “clean revenue” as revenue from product and service offerings that deliver a clear and significant social or environmental benefit. While there is currently no generally accepted standard for quantifying clean revenue, we have sought to align with reputable external standards where possible. 
For 2020, our clean revenue total includes: 
1.
Rev
enue from water-saving technologies within our
Global Industrial and Global Institutional divisions.Our water-saving technologies deliver meaningfulimprovements in use-phase resource efficiency asdefined by the Sustainability Accounting StandardsBoard (SASB) Chemicals Standard.2. Revenue from wastewater treatment technologies
within our Global Industr ial division. Our wastewater
treatment technologies help protect watersheds
and  enable our customers to meet stringent water
quality requirements.
3. Products certified by third parties such as Green
Seal, Nordic Swan, EU Ecolabel and EPA Safer
Choice, which deliver clear environmental and/or
social benefits rel ative to the typical market product.Using these criteria, we have determined that 64% 
of our 2020 revenue can be considered clean. We 
believe this is a conservative estimate. As we continue 
to improve our clean revenue methodology and data 
collection systems to capture the full breadth of 
environmental and social value that our products and 
services deliver across our key impact areas of water, 
food, health and climate, we expect our clean 
revenue figure to increase in future years.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |11
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
STAKEH OLDER ENGAGEMENT
To garner a comprehensive un derstanding of our 
risks and opportunities, we engage in ongoing 
dialogue with a diverse set of  stakeholders to assess  
the relevancy of sustainab ility issues and identify  
opportunities to improve. Stakeholders are profiled 
according to the nature of  their relationship with 
Ecolab, their interest an d their willingness to 
engage with and influence the compa ny. 
Throughout the year, we engage  with employees, 
investors, customers, sup pliers and relevant 
external groups, such as non-governm ental 
organizations (NGOs) and communities.
Employees
Our associates drive innovation, support business 
growth and provide personally delivered service and 
on-the-ground support at nearly 3 million customer 
locations. The perspectives of our associates are crit-
ical to our success and inform our business strategy. 
In 2019, we surveyed more than 5,000 associates 
and held in-person interviews to inform our 
sustainabil-ity strategy and focus areas for 
subsequent years. In addition, our annual 
Assessment of Significant Business Risks and 
biannual sustainability materiality assessment 
processes include interviews and surveys of 
leadership across business units and functions, 
including: Business Leads; Human Resources; Sup-ply 
Chain; Research, Development and Engineering 
(RD&E); Finance, Risk, Legal and Regulatory Affairs; 
and Field Sales.  
Investment Community
As a publicly traded company, we place a priority on 
the opinions of our shareholders. We engage in 
direct dialogue each year at our annual shareholder 
meet-ing, and via disclosures, surveys and rankings 
from investor-led indices. Specifically, we use data 
sets and criteria provided from investor-led 
organizations to inform our own risk assessments 
and communicate with these groups to share results 
and shape our strategy. Additionally, we believe there is opportunity 
to enhance our corporate reputation through our environmental programs and climate-related goals, thereby strengthening relationships within the invest-ment community and boosting the attractiveness and stability of Ecolab as a strong ESG investment.
Communities
We primarily engage with the communities in which we operate through the Ecolab Foundation. Since 1986, the Ecolab Foundation has implemented com-munity impact programs to support communities where our employees live and work, focusing on giv -
ing to local non-profit organizations in the areas of youth and education, civic and community develop-ment, arts and culture and environmental conserva-tion. Through this work, we engage in direct dialogue with a variety of community groups to understand what matters most to them and incorporate their feedback into our approach.
Customers
Our relationships with many of the world’s biggest brands give us a unique opportunity to understand sus -
tainability risks and opportunities facing a wide range of industries all around the world. We learn from our customers — the challenges they face and the results they desire — and use this knowledge to drive innova-tion to help them achieve their business and sustain-ability goals. In addition to our daily interactions with customers, we conduct interviews with customers as part of our biannual sustainability materiality assess -
ment process, actively participate in various industry associations and conduct annual reviews of our part -
nerships with each customer to understand custom-er-specific issues, measure our impact and assess key business drivers to shape future strategies.Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
Our ability to help make the world cleaner, safer and healthier through our products and services is strengthened through partnerships with reputable global NGOs. In 2020, our NGO partnerships includ-ed the Water Resilience Coalition as part of the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate, Alliance for Water Stewardship, The Nature Conservancy, the Project WET Foundation, Water.org and the World Resources Institute. Our active engagements with these and other NGO groups through events, inter -
views and other direct communications strengthens our understanding of global trends impacting our business, customers and communities, and influenc-es our assessment of societal risks and opportunities relevant to Ecolab’s business.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |12
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
The parameters of our 2020 Corporate Responsibility 
Report have been established based on a strategic assessment of the issues that our stakeholders care most about, are of greatest relevance to our business strategy and align with our purpose to make the world cleaner, safer and healthier.
Process 
We employ a multifaceted process to identify and prioritize sustainability topics that are important to our stakeholders, align with our company’s and customers’ key business drivers and inform our corporate strategy and reporting of these issues as required in our Annual Report and 10-K.
Ecolab’s annual enterprise Assessment of Significant 
Business Risks provides the foundation for assessing the materiality of issues to our business and our shareholders. These comprehensive reviews are conducted using a survey tool designed to identify strategic, operational, financial and compliance-related risks to the company. Risks are documented along with the likelihood and impact of their occurrence. An audit-services vice president manages the process, and the results are presented to the executive management team and Ecolab’s Board of Directors. The most significant business risks are reported publicly through the company’s annual 10-K. Ecolab’s CEO is responsible for appropriate strategy adjustments.
A biannual sustainability materiality assessment 
informs our corporate sustainability strategy and reporting activities. This process involves a detailed review of industry trends and best practices, peer benchmarking and internal and external stakeholder engagement with employees, investors, customers, community groups and non-governmental organizations. It also leverages the results of our enterprise Assessment of Significant Business Risks to align the materiality of sustainability topics with key business drivers. Topics are ranked and prioritized according to significance of impact and importance to stakeholders to ensure we focus on the most strategic issues and maintain Ecolab’s sustainability leadership in the marketplace. Outputs of this assessment are integrated into the annual Assessment of Significant Business Risks to ensure critical sustainability risks and opportunities are further evaluated and linked to our core business strategy.
Results
Guided by the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Reporting Principles, we conducted a sustainability materiality refresh in 2019 that built upon previous assessments conducted in 2017 and 2015. We used GRI’s definition of material topics to identify relevant and material topics to include in the analysis. Through this process, we identified priority material topics that are important to stakeholders and significant to our business.
These results were reviewed by our CEO and 
Sustainability Executive Advisory Team (SEAT) and further evaluated against the same set of criteria used in our Enterprise Risk Management process and annual Assessment of Significant Business Risks to identify the topics most critical for the global business that align with our core values, goals and competencies. This final analysis informed creation of our 2030 Impact Goals and the continued integration of sustainability into our corporate strategy, business operations, culture and communications.Importance to Ecolab Business PerformanceImportance to Ecolab Stakeholders
LOW
LOWHIGH
HIGHOTHER
Material IssuesPRIORITY
Material IssuesENVIRONMENTAL
      Water
      Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions      Waste
PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY
      Product Design and  
      Lifecycle Management      Chemical Management      Responsible Sourcing
SOCIAL
      Occupational Health and Safety      Human Capital Management      Diversity, Equity and InclusionSUSTAINABILITY MATERIALITY 
ASSESSMENT
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |13
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
eROI: CREATING AND MEASURING VALUE
Our solutions help customers achieve ambitious business and environmental goals. With an unparalleled 
combination of science and service, we deliver exponential outcomes that benefit customers and 
communities. We call this our eROI value: the exponential return on investment, or eROI, from 
customers’ improved performance, operational efficiency and sustainable impact. 
Measurement is a critical 
component of our process. Using our proprietary eROI methodology, we measure our sustainable impact and quantify customers’ return on investment. By helping to measure value, Ecolab supports our customers in tracking and enhancing the value they create in the world. 
Every year, we measure our 
total impact using our eROI Customer Impact Counter . The 
counter includes all technologies that track savings delivered to customers and have established methodologies. We continue to evaluate opportunities to add new technologies to the counter on an annual basis. 
Conserve more than  
206 BILLION  
gallons (780,000 cubic 
meters) of waterConserve more than  
43 TRILLION  
BTUs of energyAvoid more than 
77 MILLION  
pounds of waste
Avoid more than  
3.5 MILLION  
metric tonnes of 
C02 emissionsIN 2020 WE HELPED OUR CUSTOMERS
From the Executive Director of Anthesis LLC
“Anthesis LLC conducted an independent review of the methodology, data collection and communica-
tions of Ecolab’s eROI Calculator & Counter, and based on the results of our review process, it is our opinion that Ecolab has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data for determination of the savings and benefits of its products and services for the stated period and boundaries.”ENERGY WASTE
GREENHOUSE  
GASES
PRODUCTIVITYASSET 
PROTECTION
PROFITABILITYHUMAN 
HEALTH 
AND SAFETYFOOD SAFETYWATER
TOTAL VALUE 
DELIVERED
BRAND 
PROTECTION
COSTS
ENVIRONMENTAL 
RESPONSIBILITY
PRODUCT  
QUALITYIn 2020, eROI projects 
delivered more than  
$877 million globally in 
annualized savings for  
our customers.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |14
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
T
he United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the 2030 blueprint 
to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. They address the global 
challenges we face, including those related to poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, peace and justice. Ecolab is committed to partnerships and programs that fulfill the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and believe we are well-positioned today to make our greatest contributions in three areas.
Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation
We aim to achieve a positive water impact in both our own operations and our customers’ sitesGoal 5: Gender Equality
We believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce is critical to the success of our associates, our company and our customersGoal 13: Climate Action
We align our operations and supply chain to the UN Global Compact’s Business Ambition for 1.5ºC, pledg-ing to halve carbon emissions by 2030 and achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |15
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
OUR 2030 IMPACT GOALS 
Our 2030 Impact Goals are focused on the change we can create for our company, 
communities, customers and environment. With these ambitious goals to achieve alongside customers and in our own operations, we’re working to support a safe and healthy world with enough resources for all.
Food
Help customers provide high-quality 
and safe food to 2 billion people for 
an entire year, preventing 11 million 
foodborne illnesses. We measure 
our progress based on production 
data and business growth from our 
global Food & Beverage business, the 
number of meals served by Quick 
Service Restaurants and Food Retail 
Services customers and annual food 
consumption in the United States. Health 
Help clean 90 billion hands and 
provide safe medical care fo r 116 
million people each yea r, reducing 
more than 1.7 million infecti ons. We  
measure our progress based on the 
average number of healthcare 
inst
ruments washed, chemistr y sales  
and our business growth. Water
Help customers conserve 300 billion 
gallons (1,140,000 cubic meters) of 
water, equivalent to the drinking water 
needs of 1 billion people. We measure 
our progress based on global sales 
data and business growth related to 
our water-saving technologies and 
industry-speci fic assumptions.69%
Progress 
toward goal58%
Pr
ogress 
toward goal65%
Progress 
toward goal73%
Progress 
toward goalGOAL: 
300 BILLION  
gallons water savedGOAL: 
6 MILLION  
MT C02e avoidedGOAL: 
2 BILLION 
people provided safe and 
quality foodGOAL: 
90 BILLION  
hands cleaned
Climate
Help customers become carbon 
neutral by reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions by 6 million metric tonnes 
(MT), preventing nearly 10 million 
pollution-related illnesses. We 
measure our progress based on global 
sales data and business growth 
related to our energy-saving 
technologies and industry-specific 
assumptions. 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |16
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
In 2020, we set a goal to help clean 50 billion hands 
by 2030 through our hand hygiene solutions. We surpassed this goal by 130% in one year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Good hand hygiene is critical to helping prevent 
the spread of diseases like COVID-19. With a global pandemic increasing the need for hand hygiene solutions, maintaining product quality and safety is critical and top of mind for Ecolab, our customers  and consumers. 
As the global leader in infection prevention  
solutions, Ecolab hand hygiene offerings are supplied to healthcare, food and beverage, food retail, hospitality, restaurant and industrial businesses around the world.  
In 2020, COVID-19 increased baseline demand for 
Ecolab hand care offerings by:Ecolab raced to increase hand hygiene product capacity through investing tens of millions of dollars to better serve the global market and meet the unprecedented demand. Considering the tremendous supply chain stress created by explosive demand, Ecolab worked rapidly to secure supply and expand capacity capabilities including:•
Proc
uring critical raw materials
•Expanding hand c
are production through
upgrades, new solutions and newly qualifiedmanufacturing sites
•
Running manuf
acturing facilities 24/7
Our hand hygiene solutions are integrated into programs that include consultation, training and implementation support to help keep operations running and guests safer and healthier. Ecolab field experts visit customer sites to ensure that dispensers are working correctly, and chemistry inventories are adequate while: •
Advising on the plac
ement of dispensers and
products to best meet customer needs and variousregulations
•
Educ
ating customer employees on proper hand-
hygiene procedures
•Off
ering training in the proper use and maintenance
of hand-hygiene systems
Now more than ever, clean hands are safer hands. That’s why we’ve set a new, even more ambitious goal to clean 90 billion hands by 2030 to continue supporting the health of our customers, teams and communities around the world. 
MEETING AN UNPRECEDENTED HAND HYGIENE NEED
Delivering needed solutions
Ecolab offers one of the broadest product portfolios proven to kill SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, including hospital disinfectants and food-contact sanitizers. 
Sink & Surface Cleaner Sanitizer 
The first product registered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to kill the SARS-CoV-2 virus in  15 seconds 
Peroxide Multi Surface Cleaner  
and Disinfectant  The first EPA-registered disinfectant to kill the SARS-CoV-2 virus when used with electrostatic spray technology 
Bioquell hydrogen peroxide vapor systems 
Approved by the FDA to decontaminate  N95 respirators 
AdvaCare™ Disinfectant 
The first laundry disinfectant and oxidizer to receive EPA approval as effective against the SARS-CoV-2 virus10-20x
for hand sanitizer
2-3x
for hand soap
5-10x
for dispensing platforms, especially 
touch-free configurations
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |17
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
30% 
Progress  
toward goal62% 
Progress  
toward goal69% 
Progress  
toward goal in Total 
Recordable 
Injury Rate 
(TRIR) from 
2019 to 2020in Lost Time 
Injury Rate 
(LTIR) from 
2019 to 2020 28%
Reduction48%
ReductionOUR 2030 IMPACT GOALS 
Alongside the impact we make with our customers, we know 
we can make a difference through our own operations. 
We believe that a diverse, inclusiveand purpose-driven team is criticalto our success and are focusing on:
•  Maintaining Ecolab’s pay equity in
the U.S. and expanding globally
•  Increasing management level
gender diversity to 35% with the
ultimate goal of gender parity
• Increasing management level
ethnic/racial diversity to 25% as
we seek to meet full representation
of the U.S. workforce at all levelsOur safety goal is always zero 
incidents. But Goal Zero is more than a number. We assess risk before we start work, identify and address safety issues and remedy hazardous situations - at any Ecolab location and wherever we work.
By 2030, we aim to train and educate 
100% of our associates to work safely 100% of the time.Global water challenges are the newnormal. That’s why Ecolab aims toachieve a positive water impact. By2030, we plan to:•
 Res
tore greater than 50% of water
withdrawal and achieve Alliance forWater Stewardship Standard (AWS)certification in high-risk watersheds
•
Reduce water withdrawal by 40%per unit of pro-duction acrossour enterpriseJoining the fight against climate 
change is no longer optiona l. Ecolab 
will halve carbon emissions by 2030 
and achieve net-zero carbon  
emissions by 2050 and 100% 
renewable electricity by 2030.Achieving a Positive 
Water Impact Tackling Carbon 
Emissions Supporting a Diverse 
and Inclusive Workforce Prioritizing Safety  
Everywhere We Work
GOAL: 
40%  
reduction in overall water impactGOAL: 
50%  
reduction in C02eGOAL: 
35% and 25%  
management level gender and
ethnic/racial diversity, respectivelyGOAL: 
GOAL ZERO
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |18
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 
Ecolab subscribes to, or endorses, externally 
developed economic, environmental and social charters and principles, including:
Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) 
Since 2010, Ecolab has partnered with the World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF) and AWS to develop and launch the International Water Stewardship Standard. Ecolab is a founding partner of the AWS Standard.
UN Business Ambition for 1.5ºC 
In 2019, Ecolab joined the UN Business Ambition for 1.5ºC, a campaign led by the Science Based Targets initiative in partnership with the UN Global Compact and the We Mean Business coalition. This campaign has brought together a growing group of leading companies pledging to do their part in decarbonizing the economy by committing to reduce carbon emissions by 50% by 2030 and to net zero by 2050. 
California Water Action Collaborative
As a member since 2017, Ecolab supports collective action projects to improve water security in California for people, business, agriculture and nature.
CDP
Ecolab has participated in and reported to CDP since 2006 to transparently disclose our environmental impacts. In 2020, Ecolab scored an A on both our CDP Water Security and CDP Climate Change responses.Science Based Targets Initiative
In 2019, Ecolab committed to developing science-based climate action targets to support the transition to the low-carbon economy. These targets have been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative and include:•
A c
ommitment to reduce absolute Scope 1 and
Scope 2 GHG emissions by 50% by 2030 from a2018 base year
•
W
orking with suppliers representing 70% of
Scope 3 emissions (covering purchased goods andservices, capital goods, upstream transportationand distribution, business travel and downstreamtransportation and distribution) to set similarlyambitious carbon targets aligned with the science-based target methodology by 2024
The Nature Conservancy 
In 2015, the Ecolab Foundation made a $2 million pledge to support The Nature Conservancy’s Securing and Restoring Water Sources Around the Globe initiative. Ecolab continued to support its partnership with The Nature Conservancy in 2020.
UN Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate 
Ecolab became a signatory in 2012 to advance water security for businesses, ecosystems and communities. 
Water Resilience Coalition
Ecolab co-founded the Water Resilience Coalition in 2020, an industry-driven, CEO-led initiative of the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate that aims to elevate global water stress to the top of the corporate agenda and preserve the world’s freshwater resources through collective action in water-stressed basins and ambitious, quantifiable commitments.WateReuse Association 
Ecolab became a member in 2019 to shape, advance and promote the national movement for water reuse in the U.S.
Water.org
In 2020, Ecolab announced a partnership with  Water.org to help enable access to sustainable water and improved sanitation in at-risk watersheds in India. 
World Resources Institute’s (WRI) 
Aqueduct Alliance
As a member since 2015, Ecolab engages WRI  
to stay at the forefront of thought leadership in water stewardship.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |19
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
PARTNERING WITH WATER.ORG TO IMPROVE  
ACCESS TO CLEAN, SAFE, SUSTAINABLE WATER
One in nine people around the world currently lack 
access to clean water. As communities grapple with the impacts of climate change, economic recessions and public health crises, the need for access to clean, safe water is more crucial than ever. In 2020, Ecolab announced a partnership with Water.org to help enable access to sustainable water and improved sanitation in at-risk watersheds in India.
Water.org leverages a scalable, microfinance-based 
model that has mobilized billions in capital to support small loans that bring access to safe water and sanitation to millions of people in need. The Water.org partnership stems from Ecolab’s participation in the Water Resilience Coalition and will contribute to our 2030 Impact Goals, which include having a positive water impact in at-risk watersheds in which Ecolab operates.  
In 2020, Ecolab co-founded the Water Resilience 
Coalition, part of the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate. The initiative brings together multinational corporations in an industry-led movement to combat the global water crisis through ambitious, quantifiable commitments and collective action.One of the Coalition’s core commitments is to deliver a measurable net positive water impact in water-stressed basins, focusing on freshwater availability, quality and accessibility. Our partnership with Water.org will help us reach that goal in key at-risk watersheds in India.
Ecolab’s contribution to Water.org aims to enable 
access to sustainable drinking water and improved sanitation for 100,000 people living in poverty in India, while contributing more than 26.4 million gallons (100,000 cubic meters) of water per year to watershed health in extremely high-stress river basins in which Ecolab operates, including Chennai, Mumbai, Konnagar, Delhi, Baroda, Jamshedpur, Kolkata and Pune.
The partnership has three objectives:
•
Social r
esponsibility: Supporting communities,
families and workers living in areas where Ecolaboperates in India.
•
A
ccessibility: Providing equitable access to water,
sanitation and hygiene solutions to people living inpoverty.
•
Quan
tity: Enabling positive recurring water
benefits in high-stress basins and watersheds.
For more information
• Water.org
• Water Resilience Coalition
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |20
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
The Ecolab team operates with a strong commitment to integrity, innovation, 
sustainability and social responsibility. We always strive for the best results for our customers and our company, and in 2020, were recognized by several leading organizations for our commitment to operating responsibly and sustainably.
A World’s Most Ethical Company
For the 14th consecutive year, Ecolab was named to Ethisphere Institute’s list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies.
A World’s Most Admired Company
For the sixth consecutive year, Ecolab was named to Fortune’s list of the World’s Most Admired Companies, ranking second in the chemicals industry.
A Global Leader in Sustainability
Ecolab was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability™ World Index, which tracks leading sustainability-driven public companies globally.
An Elite Company for Tackling Climate Change and 
Protecting Water Security  
Ecolab was recognized on CDP’s prestigious A-Lists for tackling climate change and protecting water security. Ecolab is one of a small number of companies that achieved CDP’s double A rating.
A Leading ESG Company
For the sixth consecutive year, Ecolab was named to the FTSE4Good Index,  which recognizes companies for strong environmental, social and governance practices.
A Best Corporate Citizen
For the seventh consecutive year, Ecolab was in the top 10 on Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s list of the Best Corporate Citizens, ranking seventh in 2020.
A Top Company for Diversity
Ecolab was named a Top Company for Diversity by Diver -
sityInc, ranking 39th on the leading assessment of diversity management in corporate America.A Best Em ployer for Women
For the third consecutive yea r, Ecolab wa s name d to 
Forbes’ Best Employers for Women list, which ranks leadin g 
empl oyers based on several gender-equality factors, 
including parental leave programs and pay equity.
A Top  Company for Women Executives  
Ecolab was named a Top Company for Executive Women by  
the Nati onal Association of Female Executives, whic h ranks 
compan ies based on best practices that move women to 
senior posi tions. 
A Leading Company for Gender Equality 
Ecolab was named to Bloomberg’s 2020  Gender-Equality 
Index, which tracks the financial performance of public 
companies committed to supporting gender equality. 
A Best Company to Sell For
For the fifth consecutive yea r, Ecolab was named a Best  
Com pany to Sell For by Selling Power Magazine, ranking 
25th  on the 2020 list.
A Best Place to Work 
For the eighth consecutive yea r, Ecolab wa s named a Best  
Place to  Work for LG BTQ+ Equality by the Human Rights 
Coalition for its perfect score on the Corporate Equality 
Index.
An In clusive Company
For the second consecutive year, Ecolab ranked in th e top 
10% on Div ersity Best Practices’ Inclusion Index, wh ich 
evaluates companies on their actions to recruit, retain  and 
advance diversity.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 
A Most Sustainable Company
For the seve nth consecutive year, Ecolab achieved a 
Platinum  EcoV adis Sustainability Rating, which places 
Ecolab in the top 1% of sustainable companies. |21OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
We live in challenging times — and face a future that’s already testing us in 
new ways. Continued population growth, rising consumption, changing diets, public health crises and other dynamics are placing increased pressure on the world’s natural resources and creating new and increasingly complex chal-lenges for businesses. Ecolab is in a unique position to help address the global trends shaping the future of business and providing and protecting what is vital: clean water, safe food and healthy environments. Environment
WE’RE PARTNERS FOR A GREATER PURPOSE
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |22
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Approach
Alongside our sustainable impact with customers, 
we are committed to making a difference in our own operations. Our sustainability leadership has long been rooted in our enterprise-wide commitment to operational efficiency and environmental stewardship. We have set bold goals and developed robust management systems and programs to reduce our impacts on water, energy, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and waste. We have also continued to improve our product stewardship program, expand environmental sourcing requirements for suppliers and implement processes to proactively reduce or eliminate substances of concern from our portfolio. We have a history of strong environmental performance and have made significant strides in recent years to reduce our environmental impact. 
Ecolab’s Global Safety Health & Environmental 
Position formalizes our commitment to excellence in global safety, health and environmental (SHE) practices and performance. This commitment extends past our own operations to our suppliers and contractors and is foundational to our work with our customers. Our Board of Directors’ SHE Committee has oversight responsibility for Ecolab’s SHE programs and the SHE Position is executed through our global Safety, Health & Environmental Management System which is implemented at all global facilities. In addition to meeting the Ecolab SHE Management System requirements, 56% of our plants have achieved International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 – Environmental Management Systems certification. Moreover, 31% of our sites are Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 or ISO 45001 certified and 74% of our manufacturing sites have external certification to ISO 9001 standards.Governance 
While the full Board of Directors monitors Ecolab’s progress on sustainability, the Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Committee of the Board has the highest level of responsibility for all sustainability matters, including climate- and water-related issues. This Committee reports to the Board on the company’s implementation of and progress against its goals. Our Senior Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer leads Ecolab’s Corporate Sustainability program and monitors risks, opportunities and performance related to climate change and water.
Performance
Our environmental performance achievements are the result of enterprise and facility-level commitments to increase the efficiency of our operations through actions and investments that result in greater environmental stewardship. Through our Create and Maintain Value program, we employ our expertise and technology to continually find more ways to deliver strong business results while saving water, energy and wastewater and prolonging equipment life throughout our facilities. We do this with an eye for how our impact extends beyond our operations to local people and communities. 
Amid a challenging year, we continued to focus on 
continuous progress within our operations and in 2020 completed process improvement projects that reduced total energy consumption by 5 billion BTUs and saved 46 million gallons (174,000 cubic meters) of water across our global footprint. For example, our plant in Garland, Texas made improvements to its vessel washouts controls, saving more than 2 billion BTUs and 580,000 gallons (2,200 cubic meters) of water annually. At our plant in Nanjing, China, we improved our steam condensate collection program which saved 1.6 million gallons (6,000 cubic meters) of water, annually, and had notable fuel savings. And, our two largest water-using plants in Clearing, Illinois and Garyville, Louisiana installed seal pots throughout their plants to recirculate water and improve plant safety, saving nearly 9 million gallons (34,000 cubic meters) of water in 2020.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |23
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ENERGY & EMISSIONS 
Approach
Ecolab’s Climate Change Position formalizes our 
global commitment to reduce greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions by identifying opportunities for our company and customers to reduce the use of resources that relate directly to aspects of climate change. We are dedicated to continuous efforts to reduce GHG emissions in our own operations and product innovation processes, have committed to aligning with UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 13 to “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts” and are a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
Strategy and Risk Management   
Climate-related issues are monitored by the CEO and Senior Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer through our annual enterprise risk assessment, biannual sustainability materiality assessment, global supply chain ethical and environmental standards survey of performance and quarterly management meetings with the Sustainability Executive Advisory Team (SEAT) and Corporate Sustainability team.
Climate-related risks are assessed within our 
Enterprise Risk Management process and Annual Business Significance Risks Assessment, which is aligned with recommendations of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We report TCFD disclosures, including a description of our climate-related risks and opportunities, in our annual CDP Climate Change Report .  
Various laws and regulations pertaining to climate change have been implemented, or are being considered for implementation, at the international, national, regional and state levels, particularly as they relate to the production of GHG emissions. None of these laws and regulations directly apply to Ecolab at the present time; however, as a matter of corporate policy, we support a balanced approach to reducing GHG emissions while sustaining economic growth.
Goals
Surpassing our 2020 GoalWithin our own operations, we set a goal to reduce GHG emissions by 10% per million-dollar sales by 2020 from a 2015 baseline. Building on steady efficiency gains and renewable electricity purchases, we surpassed our goal in 2019 and in 2020, further reduced our greenhouse gas emissions on an intensity basis by 41% from our 2015 baseline. The key drivers for our emissions reductions are through investment in a virtual power purchase agreement for wind power in Mesquite, Texas, the purchase of green tariffs in Europe and increased overall water efficiency in our plants. When we use less water in our operations, we also use less energy, reducing our greenhouse gas emissions.
Progress toward our 2030 Impact Goals
Ecolab joined the UN Global Compact’s Business Ambition for 1.5ºC committing to reduce our GHG emissions by 50% by 2030 and achieve net-zero by 2050. We have pledged to operate using 100% renewable electricity by 2030 through the RE100 initiative and have also set a science-based target (SBT) addressing our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions which was approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). Our SBT commits us to reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 50% by 2030 from a 2018 base yea r. In addition, we are working with 
suppliers representing 70% of Scope 3 emissions 
(covering purchased goods and services, capital 
goods, upstream transportation and distribution, 
business travel and downstream transportation and 
distribution) to set similarly ambitious carbon targets 
aligned with the science-based target methodology  
by 2024.
To help meet these commitments, Ecolab is:
•Expanding ener
gy efficiency projects at Ecolab sites
across the globe
•Par
tnering with renewable energy producer
Clearway Energy Group on our virtual power
purchasing agreement (VPPA) to cover 100% ofEcolab’s annual electricity use in the United Statesand Canada
•
Moving t
o electrify our fleet of service vehicles with
pilot programs beginning in 2021
•Working with supply chain p
artners looking to
adopt similarly ambitious climate goals
•Con
tinuing to identify more opportunities for
renewable energy applications, renewable energycertificates and renewable subscriptions
62% 
Progress 
toward goalGOAL:
50% reduction in C02eYEAR  MT CO2e / $M  %Emissions Impact 
Intensity% Reduction from 
2015 Baseline
2015  50.2  -
2016  48.2  4%
2
017 47
.0 6%
2
018 43.8  13%
2
019 41.
3 18%
2020  29
.6 4
1%In 2020, we made progress toward our 
2030 goal by reducing carbon emissions by 31% from a 2018 baseline. 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |24
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ENERGY & EMISSIONS
Advancing our customer’s resilience to climate change 
We are helping customers become carbon neutral by aiming to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions by 6 million metric tonnes by 2030, preventing nearly 10 million pollution-related illnesses.
58%
Progress 
toward goalGOAL: 
6 MILLION  
MT C02e avoided
Utilization of many of Ecolab’s innovative products and services help customers reduce energy use. Click through examples of our energy-savings technologies at the right to learn more. Estimated energy and emissions savings for each application are based on a comparison with the historic performance of the technology replaced in the year the product was launched. Energy savings are also based on global sales data and business growth related to each energy-saving technology alongside industry-specific assumptions.
In addition to these technologies, our 2020 Sustainability Overview showcases 
various customer eROI case studies, demonstrating the value we delivered to our customers through technology, insights, service and training.
AdvantisTM 
FC Program
Pure Comfort™  
Mineral ProgramAPEX™
Sanitizing 
Wash ‘N WalkExamples of  
Energy Savings 
TechnologiesAquanomic™
SMARTPOWER™In 2020, we helped customers save 3.5 million   
metric tonnes of GHG emissions, preventing 5.7 million 
pollution-related illnesses.
3D TRASAR™ Solid 
Cooling Water3D TRASARTM Technology 
for Cooling Water3D TRASAR™  
Technology for Membranes
HVAC Performance 
Services
NALCO Boiler Treatment 
TechnologyOxyGuard™ 40PARETO™ Mixing 
Technology Exelerate CIP  
Plus Technology
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |25
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ENERGY PERFORMANCE
Total Energy Use  UNITS  2018  2019  202 0
Total Energy Use  GJ 6,714,364  6,722,546 5,941,461
Total Electricity Use  GJ 1,257,713 1,239,493 1,164,300
Total Renewable Electricity Use  GJ 158,19
4 116,756  787
,047
Total Renewable Electricity Use  % 12.6%  9.4
% 67.6%
Total Self-Generated Energy  GJ Unavailable  214,69
4 201,7
29
Electricity Sold  UNITS  2018  2019  202
0
Electricity Sold GJ 1,73
6 1,695  4,640
Our Legac
y Nalco Water headquarters/RD&E facility in Naperville, Illinois, has an onsite tri-generation facility that produces the majority of the electricity 
used by the facility and all the chilled water and steam used for cooling and heating the building. Any unused electricity is sold back to the grid.
Energy Consumption Outside of the Organization  UNITS  2018  2019  202 0
Fuel and Energy-Related Activities (Scope 3) MWh  219,642  204,84
2 265
,009
Includes energy consumption of upstream activities related to purchased fuels, electricity, steam and hot and chilled water.Direct Energy Consumed by Source  UNITS  2018  2019  202 0
Natural Gas  GJ 2,808,934  2,806,678  2,635,8
18
Gasoline  GJ 1,873
,702 1,944
,013 1,48
7,362
Diesel  GJ 500,19
8 532,
374 512,58
3
Distillate Fuel Oil (#1, 2, 4)  GJ 91,3
54 87,
950 49,5
85
LPG GJ 26,3
38 25,84
8 21,257
R
esidual Fuel Oil (#5, 6)  GJ 2,963  2,695  2,73
6
Ethanol  GJ 1,826  2,305  2,35
1
Biodiesel  GJ 97 - -
CNG GJ - 2 -
Tot
al GJ 5,3
05,412 5,
401,865 4,711,6
92
Purchased Hot Water  GJ 157,5 36 116,07 4 785 ,349
Electricity  GJ 1,099,5
18 1,122,
737 377
,254
Steam  GJ 142,12
8 72,4
52 65,
467
Solar  GJ 659 682 1,698
Pur
chased Chilled Water  GJ 9,111 8,734  -
Tot
al GJ 1,408,9
52 1,3
20,679 1,229
,768Indirect Energy Consumed by Source  UNITS  2018  2019  202
0
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |26
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ENERGY PERFORMANCE
Energy Use by Region  UNITS  2018  2019  20 20
Asia Pacific  GJ 401,661  407
,568  39
8,450
Europe  GJ 55
9,512  601,4
18 55
3,734
Greater China  GJ 22
9,460  136,63
7 126,
004
India, Middle East and Africa  GJ 437
,760 462,8
74 454
,437
Latin America  GJ 211,590  180,
053 161,63
9
North America  GJ 4,8
74,381  4,
933,996  4,2
47,197
Total GJ 6,714
,364 6,
722,546 5,
941,461
Electricity Use by Region  UNITS  2018  2019  20 20
Asia Pacific  GJ 101,013  96,805  95
,860
Europe  GJ 184,
799 176,
995 163,
930
Greater China  GJ 70
,816 50,2
43 47
,652
India, Middle East and Africa  GJ 42,8
14 43,8
95 41,
117
Latin America  GJ 66,82
3 68,121  62,
364
North America  GJ 79
1,449  803
,435 75
3,377
Total GJ 1,25
7,713 1,23
9,493 1,164
,300
Reduction of Energy Consumption (Resulting from 
Conservation and Energy Efficiency Initiatives)  UNITS  20
20
Asia Pacific  kWh 37
7,000
Europe  kWh 364
,000
Greater China  kWh -
India, Middle Eas
t, Africa  kWh 28,500
Latin Americ
a kWh -
North Americ
a kWh 69
5,000
Total kWh 1,
464,500Energy Intensity  UNITS  2018  2019  20 20
Ratio Denominator – Global Sales  $M 12,19
4 12,7
00 11,9
45
Energy Use Intensity  GJ / $M  550
.6 52
9.3 49
7.4
Electricity Use Intensity  GJ / $M  103
.1 97
.5 97
.3
All energy and electricity use within the organization is included. Sales figures represented are fixed currency USD and globally adjusted for 
inflation using the Producer Price Index. This ratio denominator was used for all intensities shown for the environmental indicators and is used for our corporate operational goal reporting.
The scope of energy consumption reductions includes global supply chain manufacturing facilities that reported energy efficiency projects. 
Energy savings represent a combination of direct measurements and estimations using best-practices methodologies, as reported. This is a voluntarily reported metric and therefore may not represent all projects completed in 2020. 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |27
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE
Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions  UNITS  2018  2019  20 20
Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions  UNITS  2018  2019  20
20
Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions  UNITS  2018  2019  20
20Direct (Scope 1) Emissions  MT CO2e  32
0,443  32
4,891  28
2,843
Biogenic Emissions  MT CO2e  107
.4 127 129
.5
Market-based Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions  MT CO2e  168,9
46 157
,892 57
,161
Location-based Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions  MT CO2e  168,9
52 156,650  144,6
24
Purchased Goods and Services  MT CO2e  4,8
14,543  4,
365,237  4,
303,582
Use of Sold Products  MT CO2e  2,218,4
71 2,29
8,592  1,864,2
95
Downstream Transportation  MT CO2e  717,606  59
3,521  39
8,112
Upstream Transport  MT CO2e  24
9,308  25
7,631  95
,247
Fuel and Energy Related Activities  MT CO2e  104,
952 101,843  83
,819
Employee Commuting  MT CO2e  73
,188 74
,682  76,5
73
Capital Goods  MT CO2e  76,6
90 42,5
39 39
,733
Waste Generated in Operations  MT CO2e  28,8
35 28,8
32 28,8
30
Business Travel  MT CO2e  58,
000 77
,275 15,6
25
End of Life of Sold Products  MT CO2e  641 663 540
Ups
tream Leased Assets  MT CO2e  N/A N/A N/A
Pr
ocessing of Sold Products  MT CO2e  N/A N/A N/A
Do
wnstream Leased Assets  MT CO2e  N/A N/A N/A
F
ranchises  MT CO2e  N/A N/A N/A
In
vestments  MT CO2e  N/A N/A N/A
T
otal MT CO2e  8,34
1,418  7,8
29,147  6,906,
356•Scope 1 emissions reported are independent of any GHG trades, such as purchas-
e
s, sales or transfers of offsets or allowances.
•The in
ventory includes CO2, CH4 and N2O emissions from fuel consumption and
HFC emissions from refrigerant use.
•PFC
s, NF3 and SF6 are not included since Ecolab does not use these compounds.
•Emissions f
actors used for electricity and other fuels are subregion-, country- or
region-specific where applicable, using the latest databases from governmentalsources (i.e., United States Environmental Protection Agency’s eGRID, UK’s Defra and the International Energy Association).
•
Biogenic emis
sions include biodiesel and ethanol (E85) fuel use.
•Chos
en base year for GHG emissions is 2018.
•United S
tates Environmental Protection Agency’s Climate Leaders Emissions
factors were used to calculate direct emissions.
•Chos
en consolidation approach for emissions is operational control.
•Sc
ope 2 emissions reported are independent of any GHG trades, such as purchas-
es, sales or transfers of offsets or allowances.
•The in
ventory includes CO2, CH4 and N2O emissions from electricity, heating and
cooling consumption.
•Emissions f
actors used for electricity and other fuels are subregion-, country- or
region-specific where applicable, using the latest databases from governmentalsources (i.e., United States Environmental Protection Agency’s eGRID, UK’s Defra and the International Energy Association). 
•
Chos
en base year for GHG emissions is 2018.
•Chos
en consolidation approach for emissions is operational control.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |28
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE (Scope 3 Emissions Performance Data)
•W e used Environmentally Extended Economic Input
Output (EEIO) analysis for our annual supplier and 
procurement spend data. This is a categorizationmodel to convert $USD spend based on relevantNAICS sector categories into carbon emissions asso-ciated with the extraction, production and transportof purchased goods and services, capital goods,upstream transportation, downstream transportationand business travel (beyond direct travel itself) ac-quired or purchased by Ecolab in the reported year.
•
Up
stream emissions from purchased fuels, elec-
tricity, steam and hot and chilled water, includegeneration and T&D emissions, and any other lossesin this category. Data quality is consistent withinputs from our global database on sustainabilitymetrics. Upstream emissions of purchased electric-ity are calculated for the US and other countries bymultiplying electricity activity data by country orregion-specific emission factors from UK Defra 2017Guidelines for GHG Reporting. Upstream emissionsfrom purchased fuels, steam, hot and chilled waterare calculated using emissions factors from UKDefra 2017 Guidelines for GHG Reporting. Emissionsassociated with losses were calculated for the USand other countries by multiplying the energy useby type by emission factors from UK Defra 2017Guidelines for GHG Reporting. All GWPs are fromthe IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (GWP for CH4 =25, GWP for N2O = 298), consistent with reportingunder the United Nations Framework Convention onClimate Change (UNFCCC).
•
Emis
sions from fuel and energy-related activities
include energy consumption of upstream activitiesrelated to Scope 1 and 2 stationary fuel use, elec-tricity, steam and hot and chilled water.
•
W
aste generated in operations represents global
waste emissions from waste disposed via landfill,incineration, recycling, anaerobic digestion andcomposting based on actual destination sources forEcolab’s 2020 hazardous and non-hazardous wastestreams. Data quality is consistent with inputs fromour global database on sustainability metrics. Data on waste quantity are obtained and reported from global sites. Emissions from waste are calculated using methodologies and emission factors from the EPA’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM), version 14, March 2016. Landfill emissions factors are used directly from WARM. This model bases its emissions calculations on a life-cycle analysis, including emis-sions from the long-term decomposition of waste in a landfill and upstream sources/sinks. GWPs are from the IPCC (2007) Fourth Assessment Report. For all categories except landfill, the WARM method has been adjusted to align with the GHG Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard, based on emissions for transport to destination and processing of materials prior to reaching the end destination (be it recycling, incineration or other).
•
T
he scope of business travel emissions is travel by
North America–based and European-based employ-ees only. Data availability for European businesstravel varies by country. It is estimated that 70%of all business travel emissions are represented.Defra 2018 emissions factors were used to calcu-late Scope 3 business-travel GHG emissions. Ecolabhas also used Environmentally Extended EconomicInput Output (EEIO) analysis for a portion of itsannual supplier and procurement spend data. Thisis a categorization model to convert $USD spendbased on relevant NAICS sector categories intocarbon emissions associated with the extraction,production and transport of purchased goods andservices, capital goods, upstream transportation,downstream transportation and business travel(beyond direct travel itself) acquired or purchasedby Ecolab in the reported year.
•
W
e estimate that emissions associated with employee
commuting constitute <5% of our total S3 footprintand are therefore not relevant. As of 2020, therewere 44,000 Ecolab employees globally, with 24,000sales-and-service associates. For a portion of the lat -
ter group, Ecolab provides company-owned vehiclesfor employees to get to and from work as a part of their customer service job functions. We have esti-mated that two-thirds of these employees use com-pany owned (e.g., Scope 1 emissions) vehicles for their commuting activity. The 2018 EPA emissions factor for Global - Passenger Vehicles is .000346 tCO2e/mile. We assume each employee commutes 30.37 vehicle miles per day (U.S. average according to the 2009 U.S. National Household Travel Survey). Assuming 261 business days in a year, Ecolab’s em-ployee commute emissions total is less than 5% of our total S3 footprint. Given that some employees worked from home for a portion of 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we consider this figure to be a conservative estimate.
•
T
he scope for use of sold products is limited to
Ecolab’s Food and Beverage and Dishmachineproduct categories and Nalco Water’s 3D TRASARproduct portfolio. When calculating the lifetimeCO2e we used the following formula: Total emis-sions = new unit sales in the year * estimatedannual electricity consumption * emissions factor *lifespan of product.
•
Using the ne
w sales data from the Use of Sold Prod-
ucts methodology and related calculations, Ecolabassigned product type categories with availablesecondary LCA studies to estimate the end-of-lifeemissions, and related recycling, landfill and/or en-ergy recovery rates per product category. For someproducts where product weight is readily available,Ecolab multiplied the weights by the appropriate USEPA WARM emissions factors that is weighted bywaste destination (based on US EPA research intowaste destinations) to calculate tonnes of CO2e pertonne of material disposed, by destination and mate-rial. GWPs are from the IPCC (2007) Fourth Assess -
ment Report. Historical data for 2018 and 2019 hasbeen adjusted to reflect improved data in unit sales.
•
E
colab does not have any franchises.
•E
colab is not aware of any investments that could
be estimated with a carbon emissions impact.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |29
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Asia Pacific  MT CF C-11 equivalents  0 .0005  0 .0002  0 .0008
Europe
 MT CF
C-11 equivalents
 -
 -
 -
Gr
eater China
 MT CF
C-11 equivalents
 -
 -
 -
India, Middle E
ast, Africa
 MT CF
C-11 equivalents
 -
 -
 -
Latin Americ
a
 MT CF
C-11 equivalents
 -
 -
 -
Nor
th America
 MT CF
C-11 equivalents
 -
 -
 -
T
otal
 MT CF
C-11 equivalents
 0
.0005
 0
.0002
 0
.0008EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE
GHG Emissions Intensity  UNIT S  2 018  2 019  2 020
Reduction of GHG Emissions
 UNIT
S
 2
020
Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS) Emissions
 UNIT
S
 2
018
 2
019
 2
020Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions Intensity
 MT C
O2e / $M
 43
.8
 4
1.4
 2
9.6
Direct (Scope 1) Emissions
 MT C
O2e / $M
 2
6.3
 2
5.6
 2
3.7
Market-Based Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions
 MT C
O2e / $M
 13
.9
 12.
4
 4
.8
Other Indirect (Scope 3) Emissions Intensity
 MT C
O2e / $M
 3
.7
 3
.3
 1.2
Asia P
acific
 MT C
O2e
 219
E
urope
 MT C
O2e
 4
1
Greater China
 MT C
O2e
 -
India, Middle E
ast, Africa
 MT C
O2e
 21
Latin Americ
a
 MT C
O2e
 -
Nor
th America
 MT C
O2e
 12
0
Total
 MT C
O2e
 3
91•Gas es included: CO2, CH4, N2O. Includes Scope 1, 2 and business travel.
•T
he scope of Other Indirect (Scope 3) Emissions Intensity includes only business travel.
•T
he scope of reduction of emissions consumption data is global supply chain manufacturing facilities.
The inventory includes CO2, CH4 and N2O emissions from fuel consumption and HFC emissions fromrefrigerant use. This includes both Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
•
PF
Cs, NF3 and SF6 are not included, since Ecolab does not use these compounds.
•T
his is a voluntarily reported metric and therefore may not represent all projects completed in 2020.
No Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS) are used in the production of Ecolab products. The ODS reported are used in chiller and HVAC systems in Ecolab manufacturing facilities. The scope of this metric is all supply-chain manufacturing facilities, as reported. Substances included in this calculation include R22, R123 and R124A. Emissions factors from the Montreal Protocol were used.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |30
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE
NOx Emissions by Region  UNIT S  2 018  2 019  2 020
SOx Emissions by Region
 UNIT
S
 2
018
 2
019
 2
020
NOx and SOx Emissions Intensities
 UNIT
S
 2
018
 2
019
 2
020Asia Pacific
 MT
  2
3.7  2
3.6  2
3.3 
Europe
 MT
  13
.1  15
.2  15
.1 
Greater China
 MT
  1.
4  1.
4  1.
3 
India, Middle East, Africa
 MT
  5
1.1  54
.9  5
3.9 
Latin America
 MT
  6.
1  4
.7  4
.2 
North America
 MT
  5
52.2  56
9.2  4
75.6 
Total
 MT
  64
7.5  66
9.1  5
73.3 
Asia Pacific
 MT
 2.
02
 1.8
5
 1.8
7
Europe
 MT
 0
.08
 0
.09
 0
.09
Greater China
 MT
 0
.01
 0
.01
 0
.01
India, Middle East, Africa
 MT
 0
.02
 0
.02
 0
.02
Latin America
 MT
 0
.04
 0
.03
 0
.03
North America
 MT
 0
.52
 0
.51
 0
.47
Total MT
2.69 2.5
1 2.
49
NOx Emissions Intensity
 MT / $M
 0
.0531
 0
.0527
 0
.0480
SOx Emissions Intensity
 MT / $M
 0
.0002
 0
.0002
 0
.0002
The scope of NOx and SOx reporting is global facility and fleet fuel use.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |31
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
WATER
Approach
Our Water Stewardship Position formalizes our global 
commitment to undertake responsible water steward-ship by identifying opportunities for our company and customers to use water resources in a manner that benefits business, communities and the environment. We are committed to upholding the principles of water stewardship within our own operations in alignment with the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) Stan-dard, have committed to aligning with UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 6 to “Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all” and have endorsed the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate.
Strategy and Risk Management 
The World Resources Institute projects that under a business-as-usual scenario, the world will face a 56% freshwater deficit by 2030, placing urgent pressure on businesses to rethink the way water resources are managed. As a company with deep expertise in water management, and in-depth understanding of the issues facing companies across industries, Ecolab helps businesses around the world achieve ambitious water conservation goals by doing more with less – improving heating and cooling, industrial processing, wastewater treatment and cleaning and sanitizing processes. We employ innovative water technologies, real-time data and monitoring, water management software tools, water treatment services and chem-istries to help customers implement water conserva-tion efforts to reduce freshwater use, and reuse and recycle water to increase operational efficiency and reduce cost of operation. 
We are committed to helping all water users better 
understand, evaluate and take action to mitigate their water-related risks to ensure the availability of the world’s fresh water supply for future generations. Al-though our direct operations are not water intensive, having quality freshwater is vital to our operations, products and services as we depend on the use of water to deliver our primary products and services to customers. Our annual water risk assessment evalu-ates 100% of our operations and is used to identify facilities that may operate within water-stressed regions and determine whether we have substantive water-related risks. To date, we have not identified any inherent water-related risks with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business. For more information, please see our 2020 CDP Water Security Report . 
Water Risk Assessment
Ecolab conducts an annual water risk assessment to identify facilities that may operate within water stressed regions, both in the near- and long-term. The analysis is based on combining our operational water withdrawal, effluent footprint and production metrics with water risk inputs and financial cost valuations from the Smart Water Navigator to inform decisions at an operational level. The Smart Water Navigator leverages leading, publicly available quantitative water risk datasets developed by the World Resources Institute and World Wildlife Fund.
Methodology Detail
In 2020, our water risk assessment scope included 100% of our direct operations. We assessed all com-pany locations (including plants, offices, distribution, warehouses, research and development and related facilities), representing 100% of our global withdrawal and effluent footprint. This list of facilities was as-sessed using a variety of risk criteria inputs provided by the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and insights available through the Ecolab Smart Water Navigator .ResultsUsing GRI’s definition of water stress, 18% of Ecolab’s total water withdrawal is sourced from areas with “high” or “extremely high” current baseline water stress, as assessed using the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. To further evaluate our water risk, we also evaluated sites in these areas against the following  risk criteria:•
Fut
ure baseline water stress is expected to remain
the same or increase (based on RCP 8.5 climate sce-nario to 2030 in WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas)
•
Ten-
year potential revenue at risk is greater than
10% (based on the Smart Water Navigator tool)1
•Production intensity (i.e. the percentage of eachsit
es’ production out of total production) is greater
than 1%
Based on these criteria, only two sites representing 5% of total production volume and 2% of total water withdrawal have been identified as operating in river basins where production may be affected by water risk. Both sites are working hard to mitigate this risk and are in scope of our 2030 Impact Goal to restore greater than 50% of water withdrawal and obtain AWS certification within high-risk watersheds. One of the sites, our City of Industry plant in California, obtained AWS certification in 2017.
1Revenue at risk compares the estimated amount of water a 
business requires to generate revenue (cubic meters per USD 
of revenue) to the business’ share of water available in the water basin if water was allocated among water users based on economic activity (contribution to basin-level GDP).
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |32
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Goals
Surpassing our 2020 Goal
Within o
ur own operations, we aimed to achieve 
a 25%
 reduction in water impact by 2020 as 
comp
ared to a 2015 baseline by reducing our 
tot
al water withdrawals per million-dollar sales 
and investing i
n nature-based solutions. In 2020, 
we implemented 118 m
illion gallons ( 447 ,300 cubic 
meters)
 of water replenishment projects a nd 
ultimately reduced our total water i mpact by 30% 
overall from o
ur 2015 baseline, surpassing o ur goal. 
Ecolab’s water fund projects were f ocused in water-
stressed operational basins and supported by our 
non-governmental organization e
nvironmental 
partner
, The Nature Conservancy (TNC) . We also 
engaged Limnotech  to verify the volumetric water 
benefit claims at the completion of e ach project.
Progr
essing toward our 2030 Impact Goals
Our sights are now set toward our 2030 Impact 
Goals to further expand our positive water impact in 
our own operations to:
•Restore greater than 50% of our water withdrawal
and achieve Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS)Standard certification in high-risk watersheds
•
Reduce water withdrawal by 40% per unit produc-tion across our enterprise
As par
t of these commitments, Ecolab has:
•Created a horiz
ontal process network to share
expertise and best practices throughout our globalsupply chain
•
Established site-le
vel annual goals to give sites
attainable checkpoints
•Co-founded the Wat
er Resilience Coalition, part
of the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate, tobring together multinational corporations in anindustry-led movement to combat the global watercrisis through ambitious, quantifiable commit -
ments and collective actionBecause of these actions and others, in 2020, we reduced overall water impact by 12% per unit produc-tion from a 2018 baseline. 
To continue making progress toward our goals, we 
will continue:•
Working with 16 sites t
o restore a 50% positive
water impact in high-risk basins
•Developing a proc
ess improvement project to
streamline AWS implementation at sites in high-riskwatersheds, which will include corporate guidanceto drive site-level accountability, standardized toolsand a detailed timeline
•
Improving site-le
vel tools that will help our partners
develop water management best practices and actas a leading indicator for quarterly reviews
•
Introducing our new
est technologies and services
to help manage water in our plantsCustomer Impact
We are also well on our way to surpass our 2030 water impact goal of conserving 300 billion gallons (1,140,000 cubic meters) of water annually within cus-tomers’ operations, equivalent to the annual drinking water needs of more than 1 billion people. 
30% 
Progress 
toward goalGOAL: 
40% reduction in overall water impact
69% 
Progress 
toward goalGOAL:300 billion gallons of water conservedIn 2020, we helped customers save 
206 billion gallons (780,000 cubic meters) of water. 2015  7,892, 077 - 734 -
2016  7,76
5,885  - 713 3%
2017  7,97
7,256  - 694 5%
2018  8,357
,380  - 680 7%
2019  7,47
2,073  447,3
00 553 25%
20
20 6,571,3
52 447,3
00 513 30%Water Withdrawal
Cubic meters UNITSReplenishment
Cubic metersWater Impact 
IntensityReduction from 
2015 Baseline
(Withdrawal – Replenishment) / $M %
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |33
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Ecolab collaborates with nonprofits and non-
governmental organizations to advance new solutions and standards for responsible water management, and to build awareness of the environmental impacts of industry. As a founding partner of the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS), Ecolab is committed to sustainable water use in our facilities and collaboration with other businesses at the local level. Since 2010, Ecolab has dedicated resources, expertise and practical application of principles to assist in the development, launch and implementation of the AWS International Water Stewardship Standard, a globally consistent and locally adaptable framework to promote sustainable freshwater use. The objective of the AWS Standard is to drive water stewardship, which we define as the use of water that is socially and culturally equitable, environmentally sustainable and economically beneficial, achieved through a stakeholder-inclusive process that involves site- and catchment-based actions.
In total, four of our manufacturing facilities are AWS-
certified with our Garyville, Louisiana plant becoming our most recent AWS certified site in December of 2019, and the first North American site certified to version 2.0 of the AWS standard.
Thanks to steps taken during the AWS certification 
process and Ecolab’s own water-saving technologies, including 3D TRASAR
TM Technology, these plants save 
a combined total of more than 40 million gallons (150,000 cubic meters) of water annually, which is equivalent to the annual drinking water needs of more than 138,000 people. 
The Alliance for Water Stewardship certification 
requires collaboration with other local businesses in the watershed. All Ecolab facilities that received certification worked with other users in the same watershed to drive collective action on water stewardship. 
Working collectively on shared water challenges:
•
 F
ounding member of the Alliance for Water
Stewardship (AWS) International Water StewardshipStandard
•
 F
ounding member of the Water Resilience Coalition
through the UN CEO Water Mandate
•
 Member o
f the California Water Action Collaborative
Partnering with organizations that provide resources and education about water resilience and conservation: •
 T
he Nature Conservancy – Mississippi Headwaters
protection – Solutions for Life
•
 Pr
oject WET Foundation – Educating global youth
about water conservation
•
 W
ater.org – Improving access to clean, safe,
sustainable water
• Taicang, China AWS Certification
•
City of Industry, California AWS Certification
• Carson, California AWS Certification• Garyville, Louisiana AWS CertificationFor more informationWATER MANAGEMENT AND 
COLLECTIVE ACTION 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |34
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
As available freshwater decreases while demand  
increases, there’s more pressure than ever on businesses to reduce water use. The Smart Water Navigator is a publicly available online tool that helps businesses increase water resilience and support responsible growth by turning corporate water targets into real, on-the-ground results.
The tool, created by Ecolab in partnership with S&P 
Global Trucost and Microsoft, supports Ecolab’s broader mission to help industry reuse, recycle and reduce water, supporting growing operations and healthy communities.
Whether an organization is just beginning its smart 
water journey or is looking to enhance year-over-year performance, the Smart Water Navigator guides users to effective water management with a clear, four-step process:1.
Identif
y: Assess and quantity water-related risks in
financial terms
2. Tar
get: Set sustainable water withdrawal targets to
manage water use risk
3. Implement
: Take action to meet water reduction
targets by leveraging industry guides
4. Tr
ack: Track water management progress over time
and revisit the smart water action plan
Using the Smart Water Navigator, companies are able to:•
Se
t clear targets and drive internal accountability to
help reach them
•Optimiz
e water use leading to more resilient
operations
•Build trus
t and credibility with stakeholders to drive
collective action on water issuesHELPING BUSINESSES ACHIEVE RESILIENCE WITH 
THE SMART WATER NAVIGATOR
For more information
•SmartWaterNavigator.com
•Cas
e Study: Building an Action Plan for
Smart Water Management
•Working P
aper: You’ve Set Corporate Water
Goals. Now What?
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |35
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
WATER PERFORMANCE
Water Withdrawal by Source  UNITS  2018  2019  202 0
Water Withdrawal by Source from Water Stressed Areas  UNITS  2018  2019  202
0
Water Withdrawal by Region  UNITS  2018  2019  202
0
Total Water Recycled and Reused  UNITS  2018  2019  202
0Water Withdrawal Intensity  UNITS  2018  2019  202
0In alignment with GRI standards, Ecolab defines water stressed areas as areas designated as having “extremely high” or “high” baseline 
water stress according to WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool. Data for 2019 and 2020 is based on Aqueduct 3.0, the latest version of the Aqueduct tool. Data for 2018 is based on Aqueduct 2.0. Included in the scope of this metric is all water withdrawal from Ecolab manufacturing and campus/technology center facilities where production occurs, which for 2020 represents 100% of Ecolab’s global water footprint.
The scope of water withdrawal by source data includes global manufacturing and headquarters/RD&E facilities, whereas water with-
drawal by region and intensity includes all Ecolab sites.  
The scope of water recycled and reused data includes global supply chain manufacturing sites.Municipal Water or Other Water Utility
 Cubic met
ers 6,960
,845  5,9
28,126  5,19
4,588
Groundwater  Cubic met
ers 630,
992 918,619  843,200
S
urface Water  Cubic met
ers 731,
090 610,
752 519,
048
Rainwater  Cubic met
ers 4,463  - 1,094
T
otal Cubic met
ers 8,32
7,390  7,4
57,497  6,557
,930
Municipal Water or Other Water Utility  Cubic met
ers 809,9
78 696,6
74 607,5
59
Groundwater  Cubic met
ers 199,204  267
,730 241,
936
Total  Cubic met
ers 1,009,
181 964,
405 849,
494
Asia Pacific  Cubic met
ers 372,
728 380,6
94 310,
308 
Europe  Cubic met
ers 1,509,501 1,42
8,575 1,278,
075 
Greater China  Cubic met
ers 304,5
88 240,
327 277
,630 
India, Middle East and Africa  Cubic met
ers 165,
320 161,550 153,
149 
Latin America  Cubic met
ers 338,
065 308,43
7 271,687 
Nor
th America  Cubic met
ers 5,637
,189 4,9
37,915 4,26
7,081 
Total  Cubic met
ers 8,32
7,390 7,4
57,497 6,557
,930 
Total Water Recycled and Reused  Cubic met
ers 130,
995 224
,560  309,2
60 
Total Water Recycled and Reused as a 
Percent of Total Water Withdrawal  % 1.6%  3.0%  4.7
%Intensity Within the Organization  Cubic met
ers / $M  683 587 54979.2%  
Municipal Water or 
Other Water Utility
12.9% 
Groundwater
7.9% 
Surface WaterWater 
Withdrawal
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |36
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
WATER PERFORMANCE
Water Discharge by Region  UNIT S  2 018  2 019  2 020
Water Consumption
 UNIT
S
 2
018
 2
019
 2
020Asia Pacific  C ubic meters  2 27,416  211, 183  1 90,027
Europe
 C
ubic meters
 1,
012,142
 99
2,058
 1,
027,899
Greater China
 C
ubic meters
 164
,328
 14
7,534
 134
,807
India, Middle East and Africa
 C
ubic meters
 9
1,095
 8
2,311
 80
,791
Latin America
 C
ubic meters
 2
21,667
 19
1,123
 16
2,804
North America
 C
ubic meters
 4
,198,255
 3
,897,670
 3
,399,725
Total
 C
ubic meters
 5
,914,903
 5
,521,878
 4
,996,053
Total Water Consumed Within the Organization
 C
ubic meters
 2,
412,487
 1,
935,619
 1,56
1,877
Total Water Consumed in Water Stressed Areas
 C
ubic meters
 3
99,761
 4
11,825
 3
31,845Water Discharge by Quality  UNIT S  2 018  2 019  2 020
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD)  MT  1,634  1, 339  713
T
otal Suspended Solids (TSS)
 MT
 2,8
72
 1,
419
 1,
450
•T
he scope of water quality data is global supply chain manufacturing facilities.
•In 2
018, 73% and 65% of supply chain manufacturing water discharge is represented in BOD volume and TSS volume, respectively.
•In 2
019, 72% and 63% of supply chain manufacturing water discharge is represented in BOD volume and TSS volume, respectively.
•In 2
020, 55% and 45% of supply chain manufacturing water discharge is represented in BOD volume and TSS volume, respectively.Water Withdrawal Intensity  UNIT S  2 018  2 019  2 020
The scope of water discharge by destination includes global manufacturing and headquarters/RD&E facilities, whereas water discharge by 
region and intensity includes all Ecolab sites.  Intensity Within the Organization
 C
ubic meters / $M
 4
85
 43
5
 4
1880.9% 
Sewer to Treatment Facility
17.5% 
Over Land /  
Surface Water
1.3% 
Hauled Off-Site
0.3% 
SolidificationWater 
DischargeWater Discharge by Destination  UNIT S  2 018  2 019  2 020
Sewer to Treatment Facility  C ubic meters  4 ,812,128  4 ,517,590  4 ,043,105
Over Land / Surface Water
 C
ubic meters
 99
7,870
 9
12,267
 8
72,775
Hauled Off-Site
 C
ubic meters
 9
2,454
 84
,136
 66,
439
Solidification
 C
ubic meters
 12,
406
 7
,886
 13
,734
Deep Well Injection
 C
ubic meters
 4
5
 -
 -
T
otal
 C
ubic meters
 5
,914,903
 5
,521,878
 4
,996,053
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |37
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
MATERIALS USE AND WASTE
Appro
ach
Ecolab is committed to implementing circular econo-
my principles, including using materials and resources 
efficiently, reducing non-hazardous and hazardous 
waste in our operations, products and packaging and 
increasing reuse and recycling. 
In 2020, Ecolab took several steps to reduce waste 
across our operations. Specifi cally, we initiated a 
project to baseline waste in our manufacturing oper -
ations, which uncovered a number of opportunities 
to m
inimize waste and drive process improvements. 
This p
rogram complements our continuous improve-
ment i
nitiatives which are integrated throughout our 
sustainability programs. One example of this type of 
work d
emonstrated use of Ecolab sensor technology to 
improve the efficiency of washout processes within our 
solids m
anufacturing line resulting in lower water and 
energy usage, as well as improved product qualit y.  
We are currently developing a global supply chain 
waste policy that will provide guidance and 
requirements for sites to minimize the creation ofwaste and reduce the impact of waste di sposal. The 
strategy applies a  waste disposal hierarchy, which 
describes an  order of
 preferred disposal methods for 
all waste types. 
In 2020, Ecolab Global Supply Ch ain is sued a  policy 
which re
quires facilities operating in locations with no 
local discharge requirements to meet the following 
criteria: pH between 6.0 –  9.0 s.u. and no color, foam, 
oil sh
een or floating solids. These requirements were 
adopted from the EPA Multi-Sector General Permit 
(MSGP) for industrial stormwater discharges. 
F
acilities in Ecolab’s supply chain generate the ma jority 
of waste from manufacturing proce sses. Additional 
waste
 generated includes packaging materials, expired 
product,
 expired raw materi als and product that is 
deemed ou
t of specification . All Ecolab global supply 
chain facilities,  including owned warehouses, must 
verify th
at wast es are sent to disposal facilities that are 
licensed by local  government agencies. Ecolab also 
establishes serv ice agreements with waste companies 
that ow
n and operate waste disposal facilities or 
manage wa
ste on  Ecolab’s be half. In addition, wastewaste disposal facilities are required to be individually 
approved f or u
se by the corporate Safety, Health and 
Environment department.
Goals
E
colab‘s ambition is to package all products in reus-
able or readily recyclable packaging designs by 2030. 
Although we’ve had great success reducing packaging 
waste through innovation, we’ve placed additional fo-
cus on this area in recent years and appointed a lead 
for packaging sustainabilit y. 
Our key strategies to achieving our ambition are to: 
1.Accelerat
e and expand reusable packaging programs
2. Shift to readily rec
yclable packages where reuse is
not feasible
Our Corporate Sustainability and Packaging teams 
are developing programs in alignment with these strategies to provide best-in-class customer safety and functionality while reducing waste, participating in the circular economy and driving down green-house gas emissions.
Material Use Metric  UNITS  2020
Raw Material Used (Nonrenewable)  MT 1,542,218
Material Used in Pack
aging  MT 3,416
Rec
ycled Material Used in Packaging  MT 544
Percent
age of Recycled Packaging Material  % 15.9%
Reconditioned Drums Pur
chased  MT 1,416
Reconditioned In
termediate Bulk Containers (IBC) Purchased  MT 180
Containers R
eturned for Reuse  MT 2,493
•The scope of r
aw material data is limited to global supply-chain manufacturing facilities.
•Ecolab purchase
s reconditioned drums to avoid the use of virgin plastic. The scope of reconditioned drum and IBC data is North America Legacy Ecolab.MATERIAL USE AND WASTE PERFORMANCE
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |38
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
MATERIAL USE AND WASTE PERFORMANCE
Nonhazardous Waste by Region  UNITS  2018  2019  20 20
Asia Pacific  MT 1,25 9 1,3 26 1,463
E
urope  MT 4,
732 4,
465 4,
793
Greater China  MT 708 74
2 666
India, Middle Eas
t and Africa  MT 29
6 36
7 384
Latin Americ
a MT 70
7 1,13
8 1,17
3
North America  MT 17,
465 16,3
79 15,660
T
otal MT 2
5,167 24
,417 24
,139
Hazardous Waste by Region  UNITS  2018  2019  20
20
Asia Pacific  MT 3,860  4,2 94 4, 923
Europe  MT 7,2
39 6,29
2 5,
741
Greater China  MT 93
7 1,3
83 96
2
India, Middle East and Africa  MT 643 750 815
Latin Americ
a MT 3,
043 3,
494 3,
063
North America  MT 11,4
97 10,
729 10,
368
Total MT 2
7,219 26,
942 25
,872
•All was
te is disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed by the waste disposal contractor. The primary type of hazardous waste that Ecolab
produces is process waste from vessel washouts, equipment cleaning, etc. Generally, this waste is corrosive or flammable, which is why it is deemed hazardous.
•The s
cope of hazardous and nonhazardous solid waste by region and intensity is globally owned and leased facilities.Total Waste and Waste Intensities UNITS  2018  2019  20
20
Nonhazardous Solid Waste  MT 25 ,167 24 ,417 24 ,139
Hazardous Solid Waste MT 27
,219 26,
942 25
,872
Nonhazardous Solid Waste Intensity  MT / $M  2.06  1.9
2 2.0
2
Hazardous Waste Intensity  MT / $M  2.23 2.12 2.17
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |39
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Hazardous Solid Waste by Destination  UNIT S  2 018  2 019  2 020
Landfill  MT  8,5 99  9 ,118  12,8 17
Treatment
 MT
 6,
949
 9
,064
 7
,086
Incineration
 MT
 7
,832
 4
,587
 2,2
32
Deep Well Injection
 MT
 1,56
9
 1,
769
 1,
482
Energy Recovery
 MT
 1,8
38
 1,2
62
 1,
060
Fuel Blending
 MT
 3
68
 1,
020
 1,
035
Reuse
 MT
 3
7
 9
1
 12
6
Evaporation
 MT
 -
 -
 21
S
ewer
 MT
 -
 2
9
 10
C
ompost MT
 2
7
 2
 3
T
otal MT
27,219 2
6,942 2
5,872
The scope of nonhazardous and hazardous waste by destination is global manufacturing facilities and headquarters/RD&E facilities. The scope of recycled nonhazardous 
waste is global supply chain manufacturing facilities. Nonhazardous Solid Waste by Destination
 UNIT
S
 2
018
 2
019
 2
020
Landfill MT  2 2,407  16,866  15 ,712
Treatment
 MT
 3
79
 50
3
 4
,152
Recycling
 MT
 -
 -
 2,64
9
Reuse
 MT
 3
03
 56
1
 66
1
Energy Recovery
 MT
 1,2
38
 9
61
 54
1
Incineration
 MT
 5
88
 7
49
 2
32
Compost
 MT
 2
52
 2
52
 19
2
Land Farm
 MT
 -
 4
,525
 -
T
otal MT
25,167 2
4,417 2
4,139MATERIAL USE AND WASTE PERFORMANCE
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |40
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Approach
Ecolab is on a continuous journey to be a leader in 
safety with our goal to have zero safety incidents. Product safety is no exception. We use the Chemical Footprint Project, GHS classifications and Ecolab’s Impacts that Matter criteria, as well as proactive projects to continuously identify opportunities to increase product safety.
Risk Assessment
We are committed to safety in our operations and developing products that are safe for our customers and their intended application. As part of this commitment, Ecolab has a long-standing history of implementing both hazard and risk assessment tools in our product development processes and we use a precautionary approach, meaning we strive to protect human health and the environment even in the absence of scientific certainty or regulatory requirements. 
100% of Ecolab’s raw materials and products are 
evaluated for strict compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and assessed by the Regulatory Affairs and business teams for human and environmental hazards using Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) and Organization of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) standards. To thoroughly assess ingredients, we review publicly available information from reputable sources such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), United States Agency for Toxic Substance and Disease Registry (ATSDR), World Health Organization (WHO) and European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). We also require chemical ingredient suppliers to provide Safety Data Sheets (SDS) and technical datasheets to enable proper handling and classification of our materials and products. For select products, we conduct additional testing to validate any pertinent 
hazards identifi ed in products or product ingredients 
and as
sess potential substitutions. When substitutions 
are not technically viable, engineering controls and 
appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) are 
required for product use. 
Product risks are also proactively evaluated by 
multiple groups within Ecolab – including Regulatory 
Affairs, Corporate Sustainability, Toxicology, Industrial 
Hygiene, Transportation and Package Engineering 
– and our Global Innovation Product Regulatory
t
eam reviews all new products for human health
and environmental impact. If risks are identified,
appropriate mitigation measures are implemented.
One mechanism used to assess risks in our chemical
portfolio is through our participation in the Chemical
Footprint Project. We also use customer feedback
fr
om field representatives’ interactions with
customers and customer input received through our
technical call centers or third-party health and safety
call centers to continuously assess our products.
These processes inform our final product safety
analysis and SDSs for all Ecolab products.
Participation in the Chemical F ootpri nt Project 
In 2020, we continued our participation in the 
Chemical Footprint Project (CFP), which measures 
business progress toward safer chemicals and 
provides a tool for benchmarking companies as 
they select safer alternatives and reduce their use 
of chemicals of high concern. Ecolab completed 
this comprehensive benchmarking survey globally, 
included all business units in the evaluation and 
reported our performance to the CF P. 
In 2020, we worked to further align our global 
business’ processes to embed sustainability into 
product design, focusing on chemical products 
and their packaging. We also continued to focus 
on reducing or eliminating the small number of 
Substances of Very High Concern (SVHCs) as designated by the European Union Authorisation List 
within our portfolio (less than 1%).
Classification and Labeling of Chemicals
100% of Ecolab products are reviewed for appropriate 
ingredient disclosure and accurate use and 
application instructions. We follow the GHS criteria for 
classifying our chemical ingredients and products and 
communicating product safety information. Ecolab 
has implemented GHS globally with over 95% of 
our products meeting the GHS standard and nearly 
200,000 Safety Data Sheets (SDS) issued annually in 
approximately 74 different country-specific templates 
and 49 languages. 
Additionally, safe-use and disposal instructions 
are included on the product label and /or through 
our sales-and-service associates. 80% of Ecolab 
products have GHS category 1 and /or 2 warnings on 
the product due to our commitments to minimize 
our carbon footprint and packaging waste through 
the use of concentrated products. Howeve r, when 
used as directed, this percentage drops signi ficantly, 
particularly across our Institutional North America 
portfolio, where over 73% of our products do not 
require any personal protective equipment. Ecolab 
has also innovated dispensing systems which prevent 
contact with concentrated chemistry to minimize risk. CHEMICAL PORTFOLIO 
MANAGEMENT
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |41
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Approach
Ecolab has developed policies and programs to prevent 
or reduce human and environmental exposure to chemical products through a holistic engineering approach which includes chemistry composition, format, packaging, dispensing and digital control systems. Our Product Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs teams closely partner to implement programs such as our Ingredients Policy and Impacts that Matter Product Sustainability platforms across our businesses globally. 
Commercially, we continue to leverage our Impacts 
that Matter framework for product responsibility with eight key criteria that are science-based and measurable. Impacts that Matter is a natural extension of our Exponential Return on Investment (eROI) value platform and allows Ecolab customers to make informed choices based on the outcomes products have on their teams, customers and the environment.  
Providing key product information through the Im-
pacts that Matter framework helps explain and mea-sure the impacts of Ecolab solutions. The technical information supporting product attributes is backed by our enterprise chemical management database. We have completed evaluations of our Institutional busi-ness portfolio and are working across other sectors to expand the number of Impacts that Matter product profiles available. We have rolled this process into our product regulatory evaluation process and in 2020, integrated the product review process into our formal innovation framework to streamline prioritization criteria and reformulation projects.Packaging Principles
We incorporate circular economy principles in our packaging designs, focusing on innovation to design out waste, reuse materials and enhance recyclability. We have a long history of pioneering packaging tech-nology, in some cases reducing waste from traditional packaging designs by 99%. In addition, we were an early adopter of reusable containers for our con-centrate products, as well as in the incorporation of post-consumer recycled plastic resin (PCR) into many of our packages.Chemical P ortfolio Management 
We are focused on reducing or eliminating the small 
number of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHCs) 
as designated by the European Union Authorisation 
List within our portfolio through the following: 
• Immediately prioritizing away from using com-
ponents containing SVHCs in new products, during
the e
arliest phases of the  development process
• Working rapidly to make low volume or low busi-
ness value formulas containing SVHCs obsolete
•
Where a replacement techn ology gap exists, estab-
lishing projects and partners hips to define global
alternatives to the most significant SVHCs
• Initiating new internal reporting mechanisms to fa-
cilitate visibility to results  and continue to increase
management-level engagementIn 2020, we saved more than 18 million 
pounds
 of newly produced plastic. 
Because of in
novations in the way we formulate 
and package pr
oducts, we have kept 105 million 
pounds of pl
astic out of circulation since 2014. 
Goals
Product Design 
By 2025, we plan to develop and integrate tools to 
provide transparency to additional sustainability 
impacts like greenhouse gas emissions and water 
use, biodegradability and aquatic toxicity into 
existing product development processes
. This project 
is currently underway and will be piloted in 2021. 
And by 2030, we aspire to have all Ecolab products 
packaged in reusable or readily recyclable materials 
unless prohibited by public health or  regulatory 
requirements.PRODUCT DESIGN AND 
LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |42
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
3Requires no eye, hand, skin, or 
respiratory personal protective equipment when used as directed per Global Harmonized System (GHS) classifications. Simplifies training employees on safe, effective use and handling. Creates positive staff andoccupant perception. Available in a package designed to reduce exposure to the concentrated chemical under typical use conditions making the product easier to handle, store and deliver.
Requires No Personal
Protection Equipment (PPE)Simplified Product Use
Product is fragrance free or contains a 
fragrance compliant with International Fragrance Association (IFRA) safety standards. Fosters peace of mind for user and comfort for occupant. Fragrance Safety
Minimizes air impacts due to volatile organic compounds. Contains no more than 10% volatile organic compounds, and/or complies with California Air Resource Board (CARB) guidelines per the product category.Low Volatile Organic 
Compounds (VOC)
Product is designed for low impact 
to the natural environment and is classified as readily, ultimately or inherently biodegradable at use solution levels.Product is not toxic to aquatic life when used as directed, reducing potential environmental hazard during waste discharge.Biodegradable When
Used as Directed 
Minimizes nutrient pollution 
in aquatic environments from phosphorus.Product Contains No
or Low Phosphorus
Concentrated products, requiring 
dilution with water prior to use, reduces packaging waste and carbon emissions due to transportation.Reduced Waste 
and Carbon FootprintNot Toxic to Aquatic LifeWhen Used as Directed
An Outcome Based Assessment 
of Product Sustainability
Product sustainability is a key aspect of how our programs impact people and the planet, in addition to water, energy, 
climate impacts and waste metrics. The Impacts that Matter product sustainability framework was developed using bestin class scientific standards to be universal criteria that can be used to compare any product, anywhere in the world.
HUMAN HEAL TH
ENV IRON MENT AL SAFETY
Currently, more than 250 Ecolab products are recognized 
by eco-certification bodies including:
• Green Seal • Nordic Swan • Korean Ecolabel
• EU Ecolabel • Blue Angel • USDA Biobased
• EPA Safer Choice and Design for the EnvironmentECO-CER TIFICATIONS
In addition to our Impacts that Matter criteria, Ecolab provides subject 
matter expertise to both government and non-government organizations in the development of product-level eco-certification standards. Where it meets our customers' needs, we obtain eco-certifications for our products. Impacts That
MATTER
In addition to our Impacts that Matter criteria, Ecolab provides subject matter 
expertise to both government and non-government organizations in the develop-ment of product-level eco-certification standards. Where it meets our customers’ needs, we obtain eco-certifications for our products.Currently, more than 250 Ecolab products are recognized by eco-certification bodies including:• Green Seal
 • Nor
dic Swan
 • K
orean Ecolabel
• EU E
colabel
 • B
lue Angel
 • USD
A Biobased
• EP
A Safer Choice and Design for the EnvironmentAn Outcome Based Assessment  o f Product Sustainability  
Product sustainability is a key aspect of how our programs impact people and the planet, in addition to water, energy, climate impacts and waste metrics. The Impacts that Matter product sustainability framework was developed using best  
 in clas
s scientific standards to be universal criteria that can be used to compare any product, anywhere in the world.IMPACTS THAT MATTER
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |43
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
BIODIVERSITY
Impact on Biodiversity and Habitats
Ecolab’s direct operations, activities, products and/
or services do not have a significant impact on biodiversity in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value outside of protected areas. We are not aware of any operations that affect International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) red-list species or national conservation list species. Ecolab owns one manufacturing facility in Garyville, Louisiana that has protected wetlands on its property. The protected area on the premises comprises 220 acres or 0.89 km
2. It 
is not developed and contains no buildings. This is the only known operational site that has owned or leased land that is in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside of protected areas.
Habitats Protected or Restored
Ecolab continues to support its partnership with  The Nature Conservancy (TNC) securing and restoring water sources around the globe. We are a sponsor of TNC’s Urban Water Blueprint which analyzes the state of water in more than 2,000 watersheds and 530 cities worldwide to provide science-based recommendations to improve water quality. Below are region-specific examples of the impacts we help with through our partnership with TNC. 
Minnesota Headwaters Fund | United States
Ecolab was an initial funder of the work with TNC’s Minnesota Headwaters Fund, that began in 2014, to support high-impact conservation projects to safeguard clean water in Minnesota’s lake and rivers which has a ten-year goal to protect 200,000 acres, impacting 1.4 million people. Ecolab funding has helped directly protect 759 acres and influenced the protection on 11,870 acres in the Upper Mississippi River watershed. In addition, 123 acres and 7,750 feet of river have been restored. Most recently through our contribution, supply at the headwaters of the Mississippi River has increased by 16 million gallons (61,000 cubic meters).
Monterrey Metropolitan Water Fund | Mexico
The Ecolab Foundation and TNC have built a productive collaboration around water security and since 2014 have restored and conserved over 293 acres of land in the Cumbres de Monterrey National Park, which provides over 60% of the Monterrey metropolitan area’s water supply. These activities have been aimed at improving water infiltration, regulating water flow, reducing flood risk and strengthening water security and climate resilience for communities in and around Monterrey. 
Furthermore, our collaboration has also produced 
a community tree nursery that supplies trees for restoring the landscape and contributes to the livelihoods of local farmers. The nursery, launched in 2018, is currently producing 60,000 plants per year. From its opening, around 180,000 plants have been produced. They have the potential to reforest between 296 to 370 acres of areas devoid of vegetation in the Cumbres de Monterrey National Park. The tree planting also helps with water filtration and flow of both surface and groundwater to benefit 4.5 million people.
China Urban Water Blueprint | China
With Ecolab’s support, TNC made progress on groundbreaking work focused on sustainable water systems in China. This included making headway on the development of source water protection programs for the Dongjiang River Basin, the Qiandao Lake Basin and the exploration of a “sponge city” program in Shanghai. Through restoration opportunities, safer and more affordable water sources are made available to more than 40 million people. These projects use nature to create a more resilient water system in regions across the globe and serve as critical demonstration sites, showing not only the physical connections between nature and cleaner water, but also how to engage stakeholders around a common purpose through innovative funding and governance frameworks.
Ecolab also supported the development and publication 
of the China Urban Water Blueprint report, which analyzed the state of water in China’s 30 largest and fastest growing cities, informing TNC China’s decision to start two new water funds. The report offers science-based recommendations for natural solutions – including reforestation and improving agriculturalpractices – that can be integrated alongside traditionalinfrastructure to improve water security for peopleand nature. It provides a roadmap for action for watersecurity through natural solutions, paving the wayfor new partnerships and subsequent work on sourcewater protection.
Loch Leven | United States
Within the Mississippi River Delta, the Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley faces the potential loss of three critical wetland habitats, which would impact the health of numerous species. In partnership with TNC, Ecolab supports the Loch Leven project, working to restore and enhance 10,000 wetland acres and provide 12.1 billion gallons (45.8 million cubic meters) of flood storage capacity to local communities. Ecolab’s contribution to this work allows for 100 million gallons (379,000 cubic meters) of water replenishment in the Upper Mississippi River Basin.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |44OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Our 44,000 associates, which include 24,000 sales-
and-service professionals providing on-site services for customers, bring ingenuity and resourcefulness to our customers’ and the world’s toughest challenges. And to ensure our continued capacity to deliver for customers, we strive to be the destination for the world’s most capable talent. We seek the brightest people, with a range of experiences, and invest in them by providing training, a safe and inclusive environment and opportunities to grow their own potential alongside our collective impact.
We believe in compensating our employees fairly 
and in compliance with local laws. We are committed to developing a culture that fully leverages our employees’ talents by promoting a diverse and inclusive environment and providing unparalleled training and career development opportunities. Our commitment to the safety of our employees, contractors and customers is uncompromised – from the way we operate, to the products we develop, to the customers we serve. In addition, we are committed to promoting the health and well-being of our employees, our customers and our customers’ customers by contributing to programs and initiatives that enhance the quality of life in the communities where they work and liveSocial
OUR PEOPLE DRIVE OUR SUCCESS
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |45
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
TALENT RECRUITMENT 
Hiring Practices
We believe the best teams are diverse and inclusive. 
To create these teams, we strive to:
•Hir
e and value people with unique cultures, back-
grounds and experiences
•Pr
ovide an environment where all associates feel
safe, supported and empowered
•Enc
ourage all associates to reach their full potential
We believe in developing our top talent and prioritiz-
ing internal promotions over external hires, where feasible. To allow for this development, we strive to:•
 Pr
ovide training and resources to aid skill development
•
 Enc
ourage associates to seek internal growth experi -
ences to further their professional development
•R
eward and accelerate the careers of our top
performers
In 2020, we hired 3,981 new employees, globally. Based on the average number of employees in each region, our global combined new hire rate in 2020 was 8.8%. 
PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY 
IN MAJOR REGIONS OUTSIDE OF THE U.S.Senior Management Hired from the Local 
Community
We understand that having members from the local 
community in our senior management teams enhanc-es human capital, improves our ability to understand local needs and brings positive economic impacts to our local communities. As a company headquartered in the United States, the majority of senior managers based in the U.S. are hired from the U.S. 
To track the proportion of senior management hired 
from the local community within our other significant regions, we use the following definitions: 1.
S
enior management is defined as positions that
report directly to the regional lead
2.
 Hiring fr
om the local community means within the
major regions outside of the U.S. in which we oper-ate, including Asia Pacific, Europe, Greater China,India, Middle East and Africa and Latin America.
3.
 Signific
ant locations of operations are defined as
our manufacturing facilities and operation centerswithin the regions in which we operateGLOBAL NEW EMPLOYEE HIRE RATES
Based on 3,981 employees
> 50 Years Old  1.5 %  3 .3%  2. 9%
30 – 50 Years Old
 6.2%
 4
.6%
 5
.0%
< 30 Years Old
 2
2.4%
 15
.1%
 2
0.7%
Total 8.5
%
5.7% 7
.0%New Hire Rate  FEMALE  MALE  T OTALAsia Pacific
> 50 Years Old  2. 4%  2. 4%  2.6 %
30 – 50 Years Old
 6.
9%
 6.
4%
 6.6
%
< 30 Years Old
 2
9.2%
 2
8.6%
 2
9.0%
Total 9
.3% 7
.0% 7
.8%New Hire Rate  FEMALE  MALE  T OTALEurope
> 50 Years Old  0%  2.6 %  2. 3%
30 – 50 Years Old
 4
.3%
 5
.5%
 5
.3%
< 30 Years Old
 16.
7%
 13
.7%
 16.
0%
Total 6.
0%
7.0% 7
.2%New Hire Rate  FEMALE  MALE  T OTALGreater China
> 50 Years Old  8. 3%  0 .7%  2. 3%
30 – 50 Years Old
 11.
3%
 6.
7%
 7
.6%
< 30 Years Old
 2
3.1%
 16.
0%
 19
.3%
Total 14
.7% 8.
0% 9
.9%New Hire Rate  FEMALE  MALE  T OTALIndia, Middle East and Africa
> 50 Years Old  1. 3%  2. 7%  2. 4%
30 – 50 Years Old
 8.
1%
 9
.2%
 8.8
%
< 30 Years Old
 2
3.1%
 2
2.8%
 2
3.0%
Total 13
.8% 12.
0% 12.
7%New Hire Rate  FEMALE  MALE  T OTALLatin America
> 50 Years Old  3 .8%  3 .3%  3 .6%
30 – 50 Years Old
 7
.8%
 6.6
%
 7
.1%
< 30 Years Old
 2
6.1%
 21.5
%
 2
3.5%
Total 9
.8% 7
.4% 8.2%New Hire Rate  FEMALE  MALE  T OTALNorth America100% 
Asia Pacific89% 
Europe91% 
Greater China100% 
Latin America67% 
India, Middle 
East & Africa
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |46
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
TALENT RETENTION
Global Turnover
Based on the average number of employees in each 
region, our global combined turnover rate in 2020 was 12.9%, of which 8.2% was voluntary and 4.7% was involuntary.  
Outplacement Services
Ecolab offers a comprehensive, global outplacement service to employees in the event an associate must transition out of employment with Ecolab. Services of -
fered vary by country and level of employee, but exam-ples include resume and interview preparation, career coaching and access to career fairs, job postings and a digital talent exchange. In the U.S., severance packages based on years of service are provided in circumstanc-es in which employment is involuntarily terminated. Employees and their immediate families maintain their medical and dental benefits, group life insurance and access to the Employee Assistance Program through their severance period.GLOBAL VOLUNTARY TURNOVER RATES
Based on 3,702 terminationsGLOBAL INVOLUNTARY TURNOVER RATES 
Based on 2,144 terminations
Involuntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALAsia Pacific
> 50 Years Old  5 .3%  3 .1%  3 .6%
30 – 50 Years Old
 1.8
%
 2.
0%
 1.
9%
< 30 Years Old
 1.2%
 2.
1%
 1.
7%
Total
 2.2%
 2.2%
 
2.2%
Voluntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALEurope
> 50 Years Old  7 .7%  7 .7%  7 .8%
30 – 50 Years Old
 7
.2%
 5
.4%
 6.
0%
< 30 Years Old
 12.
7%
 11.8
%
 12.8
%
Total 8.
1% 6.
7% 7
.3%Involuntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALEurope
> 50 Years Old  5 .5%  3 .3%  3 .6%
30 – 50 Years Old
 3
.6%
 3
.0%
 3
.2%
< 30 Years Old
 1.
9%
 3
.4%
 2.
7%
Total 3
.8%
3.1% 3
.3%
Voluntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALGreater China
> 50 Years Old  2 5.0%  9 .5%  11.5 %
30 – 50 Years Old
 6.5
%
 5
.9%
 6.
1%
< 30 Years Old
 19
.8%
 2
0.9%
 21.
7%
Total 9
.4% 9
.3%
9.5%Involuntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALGreater China
> 50 Years Old  7 .1%  6. 9%  6. 9%
30 – 50 Years Old
 2.2%
 2.
9%
 2.
7%
< 30 Years Old
 1.
0%
 1.
7%
 1.6
%
Total
 2.2%
 3
.0%
 2.8
%
Voluntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALIndia, Middle East and Africa 
> 50 Years Old  8. 3%  9 .3%  9 .1%
30 – 50 Years Old
 13
.9%
 7
.8%
 9
.1%
< 30 Years Old
 17
.2%
 18.2%
 18.
4%
Total
 14
.4%
 10
.1%
 11.2%Involuntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALIndia, Middle East and Africa 
> 50 Years Old  0%  5 .7%  4 .6%
30 – 50 Years Old
 1.8
%
 3
.2%
 2.
9%
< 30 Years Old
 2.2%
 0
.7%
 1.
1%
Total
 1.8
%
 2.
9%
 
2.6%
Voluntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALLatin America
> 50 Years Old  5 .3%  3 .8%  4 .1%
30 – 50 Years Old
 5
.7%
 4
.3%
 4
.8%
< 30 Years Old
 12.6
%
 11.
0%
 11.8
%
Total
 8.
4%
 
6.0%
 6.
9%Involuntary Turnover Ratee   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALLatin America
> 50 Years Old  7 .3%  12.6 %  11. 3%
30 – 50 Years Old
 7
.1%
 8.
1%
 7
.7%
< 30 Years Old
 12.
3%
 10
.1%
 11.2%
T
otal 9
.2% 9
.1% 9
.1%
Voluntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALNorth America
> 50 Years Old  7 .6%  8. 7%  8.5 %
30 – 50 Years Old
 7
.9%
 7
.3%
 7
.5%
< 30 Years Old
 11.
4%
 14
.1%
 13
.2%
Total
 8.
4%
 8.6
%
 
8.6%Involuntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALNorth America
> 50 Years Old  2. 9%  5 .2%  4 .7%
30 – 50 Years Old
 3
.4%
 4
.4%
 4
.2%
< 30 Years Old
 5
.8%
 7
.7%
 7
.2%
Total
 3
.7%
 5
.0%
 4
.8%Voluntary Turnover Rate   FEMALE  MALE  T OTALAsia Pacific
> 50 Years Old  9 .8%  8. 4%  8. 7%
30 – 50 Years Old
 7
.0%
 6.
7%
 6.
7%
< 30 Years Old
 16.8
%
 9
.7%
 13
.6%
Total 9
.2%
7.4% 8.
1%
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |47
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
BENEFITS 
Ecolab provides market-competitive benefits based on  
c
ountry-specific needs and government requirements. 
W
hile our benefits packages vary by region, they 
ar
e all designed to attract top talent and build long-
t
erm associate loyalt y . All United States employees 
s
cheduled to work 20 hours or more per week are 
eligible for Ecolab’s benefits package which offers 
associates medical and dental coverage, wellness and 
employee assistance programs, life and travel accident 
insurance, parental leave and adoption assistance, 
dis
ability coverage, an empl oyee stock purchase plan, 
pension p
lan and retirement savings plans. 
U
.S. Retiree Health Benefits provide employees aged 
55 and above with at least ten years of service, or 
aged 62 and above, with access to retiree health 
benefi ts, including medical, prescription, dental and 
vision coverage following retirement. 
Temporary workers, who  account for approximately 
1% of our tota l workforce, including intern, co-op 
and s
easonal employees, are excluded from the 
benefits packa ge.
Retirement Plan
Ecolab offers generous retirement benefi ts amounting 
to greater than 9% of total compensation to support 
employees in preparing for a financially secure future. 
Our 401(k) Savings Plan offers company match, 
pre-tax and Roth after-tax contribution options and 
a variety of investment funds. All contributions are 
immediat ely vested and participant s are provided with 
complimentary, personalized planning and advice. In 
2020, 80% of Ecolab employees participated. For our 
Company Match program, Ecolab contributes $1 for $1 
on the first 4% of eligible compensation and $0.50 
f
or each $1 contributed on the next 4%, subject to IRS 
limits. The maximum matched is 6% of compensation 
if an employee contributes 8% of their pa y. For 
contributions, employees may contribute from 1% to 50% of pay up to the IRS limits with pre-tax and/or 
Roth after-tax contributions.
Pension Plan
The Ecolab Defined Benefit Pension Plan offers a 3% cash balance benefit fully paid by Ecolab. Employees are automatically enrolled, and contributions are fully vested after three years of continuous service. Employees are also provided with resources such as self-service pension estimates, a full-service call center and an intranet site with tools and information.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) provides employees with the opportunity to own Ecolab stock with employer matching contributions. Ecolab contributes $0.15 for every $1 contributed by an employee, with a maximum annual match of $900. Employees may contribute monthly up to $6,000 of their annual pay through payroll. There is no waiting period to enroll and employees may change payroll deductions or sell stock at any time.
Parental Leave 
Under our U.S. Paid Parental Leave Policy, Ecolab offers paid parental leave for all U.S. employees within 12 months of the date of birth or adoption of a minor child. In 2020, 606 employees – 451 male and 155 female – utilized this offering with 98% of male and 97% of female employees returning to work at the end of the leave. In 2020, 78% of male and 76% of female associates were still employed 12 months after their return to work. Globally, parental leaves and time away are handled in accordance with each country’s local laws pertaining to time away from work.
Promotion of Employee Health
A Be Well Program is available to U.S. employees and their families. The program empowers, educates and supports employees in their personal journey to overall well-being by making positive lifestyle choices while creating a culture of wellness throughout Ecolab. The Be Well Program features an online resource center that contains wellness information and tools, including online seminars, events, a wellness assessment, programs and resources highlighting physical, financial, emotional and social well-being.
Additionally, the Cigna Employee Assistance Program 
(EAP) is available to all U.S. employees and their families. EAP personal advocates are available 24/7 to provide confidential support to help resolve issues employees and their families may be facing. This includes connection to the right mental health professional(s), learning of helpful community resources and immediate phone consultation on financial, legal or mental health concerns. EAP also provides access to a variety of wellness webcasts and three free face-to-face counseling sessions.
Flexible Work Schedule
Ecolab’s FlexWork program highlights our commitment to associates to provide a flexible work environment for greater work life balance. As part of this offering, FlexWork options include job-sharing, remote work and part-time and alternative schedules.
Additionally, we provide resources to help our 
associates manage life outside of work. Offerings include discounts in childcare and tutoring as well as access to a caregiver search tools with over six million providers in the areas of childcare, eldercare, pet care and homecare.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |48
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
COMPENSATION 
Ecolab has a market competitive and performance-
based pay philosophy, and we believe in compensating our employees fairly and equitably. 
In 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Ecolab 
provided pay protection to commissioned associates impacted by a decrease in sales across several business segments and launched COVID-19 sick pay programs to provide pay continuation for incidents of quarantine due to exposure or illness.
Fair Pay   
At Ecolab we require a variety of high demand, unique vocational and technical skills in entry level roles. Consequently, our entry level wages are on average two to three times higher than minimum wage regardless of gender across our significant locations of operation, which are defined as our manufacturing facilities and operation centers. To ensure our pay continues to align competitively with the external market for all roles across the company, we test our pay and wage data against several reputable third-party compensation surveys. Our pay equity studies conducted across the U.S. enterprise every two years also help validate that we are paying competitively in each state.
In 2020, the annual total compensation for our CEO 
was $16,905,180 and the annual total compensation for our global median employee was $51,114 as reported in the Summary Compensation Table on page 61 of our annual Proxy Statement . Thus, the annual total 
compensation for our CEO was 331 times the annual total compensation for our global median employee.Pay Equity 
Our processes and governance for ensuring both performance-based and equitable pay decisions without regard for gender and race/ethnicity is consistent at the enterprise level and across significant locations of operation. There are several processes and practices in place to ensure we don’t have pay discrepancies related to gender, race or other personal demographics including:
•
Annual and ongoing p
ay reviews and audits
•Annual s
alary and bonus planning for eligible
associates
•Annual t
alent reviews
•Ongoing p
ay alignment decisions such as hiring, 
promotions and transfers
In addition to these enterprise practices, we also 
conduct pay equity reviews both in alignment with country regulations and simply because it is a part of good business and talent practice. Ecolab conducts a pay equity review in the U.S. for our total population every two years. The two-year cadence reflects the size and scale of our U.S. organization and allows us to analyze a few years of pay decisions. We leverage a third-party expert in compensation and HR analytics for these reviews and assess pay equity in general, with a special focus on gender and race. The findings of our 2018 and 2020 studies validate that Ecolab provides equal pay for men, women and all races/ethnicities who undertake the same work, at the same level and with the same performance and experience.  
We are compliant with all local reporting pay equity 
regulations including public disclosure requirements in the UK and France.LABOR RELATIONS
Ecolab respects the principles of freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in accordance with applicable national law. Ecolab recognizes an employee’s right to form or join unions and encourages them to make an informed decision on the matter. Where employees have chosen to be represented by a labor union, we fulfill our bargaining obligations as defined by the law. Globally, 16.1% of our employees are currently covered by collective bargaining agreements, of which 6.6% (three agreements) are based in the United States. 
Ecolab had three U.S.-based collective-bargaining 
agreements in 2020. For these agreements, a minimum of 60 days’ notice prior to the contract end date is required to propose any changes to the contract agreements. All collective-bargaining agreements contain a specified notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation.
We adhere to U.S. National Labor Relations Board 
protocols to support employee rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. We have not identified any U.S.-based operations at which freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at risk. We are unable to report on violations or risks of our suppliers.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |49
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DIVERSITY , EQUITY 
AND INCLUSION  
Approach
Our focus on diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) 
reflects our longstanding values of working together with diverse perspectives to challenge ourselves, reach our goals and do what’s right. 
We believe in the value of diversity, equity and 
inclusion, in business and in all facets of life. We are working to embed DE&I throughout our company, so that it shows up in how we: 
•
A
ttract, hire, develop and promote people
•Cr
eate respectful and inclusive workplaces
•Do busine
ss with our customers and suppliers
•Us
e our corporate clout to create equity in our
communities
We set aggressive goals and review key metrics and 
practices, including diverse representation, hiring practices and retention with senior leaders monthly. Additionally, diversity and inclusion practices, training and diagnostics are integrated throughout all people processes at the company. This includes all talent management, total rewards and leadership development bodies of work. 
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are invaluable 
in helping associates feel a sense of belonging and in driving key talent outcomes, such as engagement and retention. Supporting and growing our vibrant community of 11 ERGs help associates connect with colleagues, take part in career and leadership development experiences and provide important insights to the business. We also provide associates with regular opportunities to connect, listen and learn about our differences, to build empathy, understanding and allyship for one another. 19,1389,638
1,935
3,4563,127
7,35214,727 Male |  4,343 Female |  68 Not Specified6,440 Male |  2,906 Female |  292 Not Specified
1,482 Male |  440 Female |  13 Not Specified
2,539 Male |  882 Female |  35 Not Specified2,504 Male |  617 Female |  6 Not Specified
4,544 Male |  2,788 Female |  20 Not Specified
NA | EmployeesEU | Employees
IMEA | Employees
AP | EmployeesGC | Employees
LA | Employees
44,646
Total Global Employees  
(Active)
32,236 Male 32,069 Male 167 Male
11,976 Female 11,462 Female 514 Female
434 Not Specified 431 Not Specified 3 Not Specified43,962
Full-Time Global Employees 684
Part-Time Global Employees 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |50
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Hiring Practices  
To ensure diverse candidates are considered 
throughout the recruiting process, we use a multifaceted approach. All Ecolab jobs are posted through major social and recruiting channels as well as diversity specific job boards, like the Diversity Jobs Network. 
Additionally, we ensure diverse communities know 
about our Ecolab careers though our longstanding and critical partnerships with Historically Black Colleges & Universities (HBCUs), The Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), The Society of Women Engineers (SWE), The National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), Competitive Advantage, Out4U and The Consortium. To ensure we are activati ng diverse early career 
talent into our pipeline, our campus recruiting team 
par
tners with on-campus organizations that support 
w
omen and underrepresented groups at the local, 
regional a
nd national level.  Our goal is for 100% of 
requisitions to have a diverse funnel of applicants 
that mirrors the market availability for each 
individual job.
Finally, w
e focus attention on educating recruiters, 
interview teams and hiring managers on inclusion, 
diversity and bias through our Ecolab Interview 
Training courses to support managers in interviewing 
and selection of the best candidate.  
Goals
We’re committed to making faster, deeper progress 
inside Ecolab and within society – and are holding 
ourselves accountable through our 2030 Impact 
Goals. These goals help us drive significant change to advance racial and social justice within our 
organization. We have committed to focus on:
• Maintaining Ecolab’s pay equity in the U.S. and
expanding globally
• Increasing management level gender diversity to
35% –  a ~50% increase in representation – with
the ultimate goal of
 gender parity
• Increasing management level ethnic/racial
diversity to 25% 
– a ~50% increase in
representation – as we seek to meet full
representation of the U.S. workforce at all levels
In 2020, we grew management level gender diversity 
to 24.3% and management level ethnic/racial diversity in the U.S. to 17.3%. 
GLOBAL GENDER DIVERSITY RACIAL AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY IN THE U.S.
72.2% Male 75.6% Male
26.8% Female 24.3% Female
1.0% Not Specified81.4% Non-minority
17.3% Minority
1.3% Not Specified71.1% Non-minority
27.1% Minority
1.8% Not SpecifiedAll Global  
EmployeesAll U.S.  
EmployeesU.S.  
Management 
EmployeesGlobal
Management  
EmployeesDIVERSITY , EQUITY 
AND INCLUSION  
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |51
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
GLOBAL DIVERSITY BY JOB LEVEL, 
GENDER AND AGEETHNIC/RACIAL DIVERSITY OF 
U.S. EMPLOYEESU.S. ETHNIC AND RACIAL DIVERSITY
(As defined by EEO1 racial and ethnic categories)
36,204 Individual Contributors 
Gender as a  
Percent of TotalMale  71.4%
Female  27.4%
Not Specified  1.2%
> 50 Ye
ars Old  21.6%
3
0 – 50 Years Old  59
.1%
< 30 Years Old  19.2%A
ge Group as a  
Percent of Total14,019 Individual Contributors
Minority  30 .0%
Non-minority  68.0%
No
t Specified  2.0%
3,033 Junior Management Employees
Minority  18.4 %
Non-minority  80.2%
No
t Specified  1.5%
1,146 Management Employees
Minority  14. 4%
Non-minority  84.6
%
Not Specified  1.0%
18 Top Management Employees
Minority  11.1%
Non-minorit
y 88.9%
No
t Specified  0%
13 Board of Directors
Minority  15. 4%
Non-minority  84.6
%
Not Specified  0%6,749  Junior Management Employees
Gender as a  
Percent of TotalMale  75.0%
Female  25.0%
Not Specified  0%
> 50 Ye
ars Old  29
.5%
30 – 50 Years Old  68.6%
< 3
0 Years Old  1.9%A
ge Group as a  
Percent of Total
1,674 Management Employees
Gender as a  
Percent of TotalMale  78.3%
Female  21.7%
Not Specified  0%
> 50 Ye
ars Old  45
.2%
30 – 50 Years Old  54.6
%
< 30 Years Old  0.2%A
ge Group as a  
Percent of Total
19 Top Management Employees
Gender as a  
Percent of TotalMale  68.4%
Female  31.6%
Not Specified  0%
> 50 Ye
ars Old  68.4
%
30 – 50 Years Old  31.6
%
< 30 Years Old  0%Age Gr
oup as a  
Percent of Total
13 Board of Directors 
Gender as a  
Percent of TotalMale  61.5%
Female  38.5%
Not Specified  0%71.1%
10.9%
9.3%
4.6%
1.8%1.4%
0.4%
0.4%WhiteHispanic or LatinoBlack or African AmericanAsianNot Specified Two or More RacesAmerican Indian or Alaska NativeNative Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
81.4%
7.6%
5.6%
2.7%
1.3%
0.9%
0.3%
0.1%WhiteAsianHispanic or LatinoBlack or African AmericanNot Specified Two or More RacesAmerican Indian or Alaska NativeNative Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander18,216
Total U.S. 
Employees
4,197
U.S. 
Management  
Employees
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |52
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
We cannot create a healthy culture inside our organization 
if there is injustice in our communities. And we realize that intent is not enough – results matter, and we are committed to making faster, deeper progress to advance social and racial justice, both within Ecolab and our communities.
We are listening and seeking to understand, working with 
community leaders to gain the insights and perspectives we need to make significant, sustainable change and continuing to support organizations dedicated to advancing racial and social justice. 
In 2020, Executive Chairman and former CEO Doug Baker 
joined more than 80 Minnesota CEOs to issue a statement urging police reform during the state of Minnesota’s special legislative session. The statement was sent on behalf of the Minnesota Business Partnership, a group of business leaders from Minnesota’s largest employers that aims to strengthen the state’s economy and quality of life.
Additionally, our Executive Diversity & Inclusion Council has pledged to lead the 
organization in the following commitments:•
Pr
ovide more frequent opportunities for real conversations about race and building
a more inclusive culture across all our non-majority groups
•Incr
ease learning opportunities for managers and leaders around inclusion and
the importance of building diverse and inclusive teams
•Exp
and our focus on supplier diversity and ensure that vendor relationships
reflect Ecolab’s commitment to supporting diverse and equitable communities
•C
ontinue to insist on diverse candidate pools and broaden recruitment
strategies to help us find the best talent. In the U.S., we will step up ourefforts to recruit from historically Black colleges and universities and diverseinstitutions and organizations.
•
C
ontinue to measure and monitor our acceleration of the representation of
women and ethnically diverse associates, particularly in management andexecutive level roles. The company’s executives will review these statisticseach month.
•
Insis
t that diverse talent has access to learning opportunities and the support
they need to help them achieve their career ambitionsAllyship in action
Following the death of George Floyd in our headquarters community of Saint Paul, MN in 2020, we pledged to provide more frequent opportunities for real conversations about race and to build a more inclusive culture across all our  non-majority employee groups. Stemming from this commitment, we held two Day of Understanding events focused on race and gender.
In August 2020, we held our first Day of Understanding to facilitate dialogue 
about racism against Black and African American people in the U.S. More than 4,500 associates attended a town hall and 1,800 participated in small group breakout sessions led by senior business leaders. And in January 2021, we continued the conversation with a focus on women at work, gender equality, allyship and inclusion drawing over 8,500 participants to a town hall and more than 3,500 to breakout sessions. 
And, to help associates have ongoing conversations, build trust and be better 
allies to those who face discrimination, over one quarter of our global workforce has completed an online Allyship in Action training course.STANDING TOGETHER
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |53
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
Ecolab continuously monitors the health of our talent 
and works to build an engaged workforce through ongoing listening initiatives. In addition to all-employee global surveys, we conduct periodic check-in and small surveys with targeted teams to allow us to gather insights into the experience and needs of our workforce. 
Our enterprise-wide employee engagement survey is 
administered every other year. Our last enterprise-wide employee engagement survey took place in 2018 and the results revealed we have a lot to celebrate. We achieved a record 91% participation rate, and our overall engagement score was 63%, a one-point increase from the previous assessment. 
In 2020, though we had planned to conduct the 
employee engagement survey again, we quickly adapted to instead listen to our associate’s needs resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic through three, targeted pulse surveys administered throughout the year. 
Through an enterprise-wide global survey of all non-
Supply Chain plant employees early in the year, we quickly gathered feedback to identify how additional support could be provided from management and the organization during the challenging times caused by COVID-19. Favorable responses were received across all categories including:•
Car
e and connection with manager and team
•Senior le
adership COVID-19 response and
communications
•Employ
ee wellness
•Vir
tual work effectiveness
As there were a few notable differences between sales and non-sales employee responses, we took action to address gaps and provide specific support needs to field sales-and-service associates who were uniquely impacted, including enacting a pay protection plan and enhanced health and safety protocols.We also conducted a survey for all Supply Chain plant associates and saw strong favorable responses in employee’s perception of Ecolab’s commitment to workplace safety and belonging at work. 
In December 2020, we administered a U.S. random 
sample population survey of 3,500 associates to assess a number of employee wellbeing topics; work life balance, caregiver needs, return to office, overall engagement and care and connection to team and manager. The survey revealed that our employees are receiving the care and connection needed from their manager and team and feel Ecolab will prioritize safety in any return to office decisions. We also saw an increase in overall engagement by three points, including a 10-point increase in female engagement. Opportunities for improvement included work life balance and developing an awareness and education of caregiver resources available to support associates. 
We plan to leverage all 2020 survey results to 
proactively identify engagement and retention risks in talent populations and create action plans within respective businesses, functions and markets to mitigate these risks. In 2021, we plan to conduct additional pulse surveys to continuously monitor and track progress.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY RESULTS
Metric 2014 2016 2018
Response Rate 75% 86% 91%
 Employee  
Engagement Score57% 62% 63%
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |54
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT 
Approach
Ecolab’s ability to attract and retain the world’s most 
capable talent, while deepening our relationship with existing employees, is critical to managing our operations efficiently and effectively and delivering innovative solutions for customers. We invest in professional training and development, help our employees create personal plans to achieve their career goals and conduct regular employee engagement surveys. 
We recently implemented a strategic initiative 
to monitor the health of our talent more closely, strengthen our talent pipeline and drive accountability for continuous improvement. We have ongoing CEO-led Talent Council meetings, regional Talent Councils and business-specific Talent Councils that meet monthly to review talent development and discuss strategic activities. Reports with talent and diversity metrics are provided to top management and reviewed monthly. Additionally, annual talent reviews are conducted with senior executives to lay out succession plans for leadership and key roles. This talent assessment process supplements the annual Performance Planning and Development process to ensure we proactively attract and retain talent that meets the needs of our growing global organization.
Employee Learning and Development 
We believe in a 70-20-10 model for learning and development, with 70% of learning taking place on the job; 20% occurring with role models, coaches, mentors, job shadowing and formal feedback mechanisms; and 10% through formal training. Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), formal learning programs and specialized continuous improvement programs provide formal coaching, mentoring and 1:1 career development opportunities for employees.  In 2020, we completed the deployment of a globally centralized learning management system, an integrated enterprise learning technology platform that provides enhanced capabilities to deploy ongoing learning to employees and comprehensive training recordkeeping. In the United States, we also offer an educational assistance program providing eligible employees with financial reimbursement upon successful completion of approved programs and courses offered by accredited colleges, business schools or technical schools. 
Ecolab’s 11 ERGs hosted over 300 events across 70+ 
global chapters in 2020. Event topics ranged across professional and personal development, diversity, equity and inclusion, healing and self-care and perspectives from senior leaders. In total, associates collectively spent almost 20,000 hours participating in ERG-led events.
Additionally, we delivered our third annual Ecolab 
Development Week to provide practice-oriented workshops to upgrade employee skills and advance career development. The 2020 Development Week comprised of over 350 completely virtual events spread across more than 85 countries with over 25,000 active participants. Not only does the participation rate represent over half of our global workforce, but it is also almost double the number of participants from the previous year’s program. Leadership Development Programs 
Beyond rigorous technical, functional and business-specific training courses, our global development programs are designed to deepen leadership capability and include Manager Essentials, Leader Coach, Growth Leader and several functional rotational programs. Supplementing these corporate offerings, our divisions and functions also provide leadership development opportunities tailored to the unique needs of the business.  
In 2020, more than 300 global associates participated 
in our 18-week Manager Essentials program designed to support first-line managers making the transition from “leading self” to “leading others.” We also delivered our Leader Coach program to more than 300 associates, targeting the coaching habits of senior leaders to further support and strengthen behaviors developed in the Manager Essentials cohorts. In addition, we redesigned our Growth Leader program, launching in 2021, to support nominated, high-performing and high-potential executive leaders. 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |55
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Goals
At our core, Ecolab’s growth is rooted in decades of 
science, learning and innovation. We have ambitious, solution-oriented teams and continually look for ways to help our employees learn and grow. That’s why we aspire to do the following:•
Enroll all glob
al first-line managers in the Manager
Essentials program by the end of 2021
•Hav
e all eligible global leaders of first line
managers complete the Leader Coach program bythe end of 2021
•
Each y
ear, have 90-100 high-potential executive-
level leaders complete the Growth Leader program
•Hos
t annual Ecolab Development Week events
and encourage all associates to engage in at leastone development activity during that week and/orleverage one of these activities during the year
Through these various learning programs, we are providing associates with the tools they need to excel and developing the future leaders of Ecolab and the industry at large.Annual Performance Planning 
and Development 
Ecolab’s global Performance Planning and 
Development (PP+D) process provides employees and their managers with the practices and tools they need to optimize performance. All PP+D tools are accessible to all employees in nine languages through our enterprise talent management system alongside digital forms available in 25 languages. In addition to the annual performance review process, managers are encouraged to provide open feedback and coaching throughout the year to support employees in achieving their goals.
Annual performance reviews for 2020 were 
completed in 2021, and consisted of three sections:1.
Pas
t-year results summary
2. Perf
ormance objectives for the new year
3. Co
aching and development goals
Globally, 99% of employees’ 2020 annual performance reviews were recorded. Male- and female- identified associates received performance reviews at nearly the same rate.
Collectively in 2020, employees spent a 
total of 411,000 hours in learning and development. 
On average, our global employees 
received a total of 27.4 hours of training  
and development, comprised of 9.1 hours of formal training and 18.3 hours of informal or formal coaching, mentoring and/or job-shadowing. 
The average training and development 
expenditure in 2020 was $315 per  
full-time employee.Individual Contributor 33,084 36,204 91%
Junior Management 6,678 6,749 99%Management 1,614 1,674 96%
Top Management 19 19 100%
Total 41,395 44,646 93%
Female 10,383 11,982 87%
Male 30,876 32,234 96%
Not Specified 26 26 100%
No Data 110 404 27%
Total 41,395 44,646 93%
Female 97% 98% 99%
Male 97% 98% 99%
Not Specified 89% 100% 95%
Asia Pacific 100% 99% 99%
Europe 93% 96% 99%
Greater China 100% 100% 100%
India, Middle East and Africa 96% 98% 99%Latin America  99% 98% 100%
North America 97% 98% 99%1Percent of employees who have completed at least one 
learning course2020 Learning Adoption Rate1
Annual Performance Review Completion RatesEmployee level COMPLETED TOTAL %
Gender COMPLETED TOTAL %
Gender 2018 2019 2020
Region 2018 2019 2020
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |56
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Approach
At Ecolab, the safety of our employees and 
contractors is our top priority and is embedded into our company values. Our safety goals are simple: zero accidents, zero injuries and zero violations. This is a collective goal in which each employee must commit to, own and deliver on every day of the year. Year-on-year, we also strive to incrementally improve safety at all our sites to protect employees and communities.  
Our Board of Directors Safety, Health and 
Environment (SHE) Committee is the highest governing body responsible for Goal Zero and execution is managed by our Executive Safety Leadership Council and Regional Safety Leadership Councils in all regions and large markets. Our leadership teams and a network of SHE professionals around the world support employees with proven safety programs, processes and platforms to help achieve our goal, and our training and onboarding programs provide leading metrics upon which to measure company performance. 
Understanding underlying and potential risks is a 
critical component to improving safety outcomes. Our Global Safety Dashboard tracks our performance on a range of leading and lagging safety indicators and helps us measure the effectiveness of our safety programs.
Our approach to safety communications is aimed at 
encouraging employees in the field, offices and plants to embrace safety as a personal issue. We highlight different topics to raise awareness, encourage positive safety behaviors and eliminate risk. Protecting Employee Safety During 
COVID-19
To help reduce the risks due to COVID-19, Ecolab 
established a phased pandemic model based on prevalence of the virus in the community. Ecolab established both internal and external safety protocols based on guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and other major public health organizations and evolved those protocols as we learned more about best practices to reduce the risk of COVID-19. 
Ecolab leaders in each country have continuously 
mapped local conditions to the phased model and implemented the relevant protocols as their phase status changed throughout 2020. Additionally, Ecolab provides many programs and tools to reduce risks for employees, including enhanced sick time, pay protection, work from home support and personal protective equipment.
Occupational Health and Safety 
Management Systems
Ecolab deploys systems to manage occupational 
health and safety commitments that are aligned with our Global Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) Position including:•
C
ompliance with the legal, regulatory, customer and
other requirements applicable to Ecolab activitiesand operations
•
Pr
evention of injury, ill health and environmental
exposures and commitment to continuousimprovement of safety, health, environmental andsecurity management systems and performance
•
Managemen
t of safety, health, environmental and
security risks through a hierarchy of controls, withthe participation of employees and in consultationwith key stakeholders
•
Emplo
yee empowerment to stop work when
conditions or behaviors are unsafe
•Managing our risk in all w
ork environmentsOur systematic approach to meeting these commitments cover 100% of employees globally, as well as non-employees that are directly supervised by Ecolab. We execute systems in our global operations to ensure management leadership and commitment, employee involvement/participation, coverage of legal and customer requirements, communications, risk identification and control, development of annual targets and plans, professional SHE resourcing and employee training.
Our systems help ensure we meet our legal 
obligations in our countries of operation, including but not limited to the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration, UK Health & Safety Executive, German Occupational and Safety Act, Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety and China’s Workplace Safety Law. 
As part of our continuous improvement efforts, 
we have begun a multi-year process to more fully align our systems to the newly released ISO 45001 international standard, which builds on earlier international standards including the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001, the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) ILO-OSH Guidelines and other standards. In some cases, we are also working to align with standards promulgated by industry groups with which we partner such as the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care Management System. 
To date, approximately 32% of our workforce is 
covered by systems that have undergone internal management system audits and 19% is covered by systems that have been audited externally. 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |57
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment 
and Incident Investigation
Our Global Risk Assessment Policy outlines 
requirements for all divisions, functions and regions to assess, communicate and control operational hazards and risks for routine and non-routine tasks and emergency situations. The policy requires these risks be managed through a hierarchy of controls which prioritizes eliminating hazards and substituting less hazardous materials or processes over using engineering controls, administrative controls and personal protective equipment. Formal risk assessments completed by trained safety professionals are made available to all employees that have the potential to be exposed to certain risks and are used to better target controls and training. Personal risk assessments are completed by all employees prior to the completion of daily tasks and all new hires are trained in our personal risk assessment methodology. To ensure the quality of these processes, Ecolab has developed numerous employee training programs, guidance documents and tools to improve our risk assessment techniques.  
Through our Global Risk Assessment Policy, Global 
Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) Position and Code of Conduct , we empower all employees to 
report work-related hazards and to stop work when conditions or behaviors are unsafe. Our global Code of Conduct establishes personal responsibility for establishing and maintaining a safe workplace and requires employees to promptly report health and safety concerns to their supervisor, regional SHE representative, human resources representative or if necessary, appropriate emergency authorities. We also deploy electronic, web-based tools throughout our global operations to assist all employees and non-employees under our control in reporting incidents, near miss events and general hazards. Our proactive approach to risk identification at our locations and customer facilities enhances our comprehensive safety program and improves results. In 2020, our achievements included:•
More than 2
20,000 safety observations
•More than 3 6,000 commentary drives to improve
driving techniques and safety practices
•More than 11,2
00 drivers using the Virtual Risk
Manager driving application to help improve drivingtechniques and safety practices
•
94 s
afety audits – due to COVID-19, many of which
were done remotely
Our Incident Investigation Policy outlines responsibilities and processes for investigating all incidents, including near miss events, within 24 to 48 hours (depending on severity). Investigations are designed to identify hazards, risks and root causes associated with an incident. Corrective actions to reduce future risk are identified based on the hierarchy of controls, and we periodically review action closure and effectiveness to continuously improve the system.
Occupational Health Services
Our Regulatory Affairs team of toxicologists, industrial hygienists and scientists conducts safety assessments of chemical products to characterize health and physical hazards in alignment with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) Hazard Communication standard and other relevant standards in jurisdictions where we operate, assess risk and generate Safety Data Sheets and labels which are made available publicly. To further assess risks, we carry out periodic occupational exposure evaluations including air monitoring, noise assessments, risk modeling and ergonomic evaluations. Toxicological studies are commissioned where necessary and relevant occupational exposure limits and control mechanisms are identified via these processes. 
Hazard communication training is completed globally 
for all newly hired employees in relevant roles. We have also issued a global Industrial Hygiene Policy to guide employees in assessing risk, monitoring contaminants when necessary, controlling occupational hazards through a hierarchy of controls and to stop work if conditions remain concerning.   
When necessary to further limit exposure, administrative 
controls are deployed such as additional, targeted training and use of personal protective equipment. Our global Personal Protective Equipment Policy requires identification of proper protective equipment for each job, employee training and systems to ensure equipment is available regardless of jurisdiction. We also offer recurring medical evaluations coordinated by contracted occupational physicians and health care providers to employees in select positions. 
Product information is provided to a contracted 
external poison control center (PCC) and transport incident call center which provide 24/7 emergency response services. We have quarterly meetings with the PCC to review incident calls, provide feedback on service quality and ensure product information is up to date. 
Employee Participation in Occupational 
Health and Safety Committees
Employee participation in our occupational health 
and safety systems is critical to maintaining our safety culture. Our physical locations including manufacturing plants, research facilities and logistics operations commonly have joint safety committees composed of hourly employees, union representatives (where applicable) and management personnel. These committees operate in an advisory capacity in accordance with applicable legal and Ecolab requirements, and meet quarterly at a minimum. Our remote, sales-and-service teams can also participate in safety committees through our Safety Champion Network processes. Each sales district nominates a Safety Champion to represent them in health and safety matters. Safety Champions commonly work with business leaders and our professional SHE staff to execute our safety strategy and programs and participate in monthly network meetings.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |58
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Employee Training
Ecolab maintains a Global Safety, Health, and 
Environment Training Policy requiring all Ecolab operations to establish minimum requirements for training based on an assessment of operation-specific risk, applicable local or national laws and regulations and employee job responsibilities. This includes establishing new hire or transfer orientation training requirements. Each operation is required to determine appropriate training methods and frequencies, ensure training is delivered prior to risk exposure, document the completion of training and review training programs at least every three years. Below are a few examples of our training programs and activities.
•
Saf
ety Leadership Training
This half
-day course is designed to support 100% 
of managers engaged as safety leaders and other
employees engaged in improving safety performance.
•Driver S
afety Training
Behind-the-
Wheel (BTW) training is designed to
teach vehicle control and accident-avoidancetechniques. Our goal is to have 100% of the driverpopulation that has not completed BTW within thepast three years to complete training in 2021.
•
Saf
ety Onboarding
Divisional saf
ety onboarding processes are
designed to provide newly hired sales-and-servicepersonnel with basic safety training. The trainingincludes eight modules of cross-divisional training(SOS® Core) and additional division-specificcontent. In 2020, our target was to have 100% ofemployees complete Safety Onboarding trainingwithin their first 30 days of employment. Weachieved a 97% completion rate.
In our 2018 enterprise-wide employee engagement survey, we found that over 85% of Ecolab Employees are ‘highly engaged’ around safety. This safety engagement score was one of the highest engagement categories within Ecolab and is 7% higher than the Fortune 500 benchmark.Emergency Response Program  
and Procedures
Our goal is to have zero safety incidents. However, incidents and emergencies involving worker safety, chemical spills or releases, natural disasters or other product or operational incidents can happen. To prepare for these unlikely events, we are committed to implementing and maintaining strong emergency preparedness and response systems to control, mitigate and minimize the impact on safety, property and the environment. This is part of our commitment to the safety of our workers and the communities where we operate. 
Ecolab’s Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) 
Committee of the Board is responsible for overseeing potential risks requiring emergency response, as well as the effectiveness of emergency preparedness and response systems. 
We maintain enterprise-wide guidelines on how to 
prepare for and respond to emergencies including incident management plans and crisis notification and reporting procedures. In addition, we have emergency response teams and business continuity plans in place at all levels of the organization including at the site, country, region and enterprise levels. Our manufacturing plants regularly test our emergency response plans with local first response agencies and we host regular crisis training sessions throughout the world. 
We regularly review our emergency management 
programs across our businesses to ensure they are functioning as intended and identify opportunities for continuous improvement. Following an incident, we conduct a thorough review, sharing key learnings and recommendations with emergency response teams and senior leadership, and adjust crisis plans for future use.Prevention and Mitigation of Impacts 
at Customer Locations
Our health and safety management systems are 
designed to minimize risks in all our operations, including delivering products and services to customers worldwide. Our Regulatory Affairs team, which includes more than 200 scientists and professionals operating in 35 countries with backgrounds in chemistry, microbiology, toxicology, trade compliance and other disciplines, ensures we minimize product risks. In addition, we deploy training, risk assessment and mitigation techniques to ensure our team of more than 24,000 sales-and-service professionals operate safely as they conduct business at customer locations. We have also developed a global Customer Site Safety policy designed to foster cooperation with customers on health and safety issues and provide foundational requirements for safe operation.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |59
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
PERFORMANCE
All Ecolab global operations conform to the 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) injury reporting standards. The data provided cannot be broken down by gender and does not include independent contractors, except where stated otherwise. As Ecolab transitioned to a web-based platform for injury and incident reporting, we identified opportunities to improve the consistency of tracking lost time injury rates outside of North America. This improvement process will continue in 2021.
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)
Number of injuries and illnesses per 100 workers, based on 200,000 working hoursHEALTH AND SAFETY 
PERFORMANCE
Asia Pacific 0.60 0.55 -8%
Europe 0.88 0.67 -24%
Greater China 0.14 0.19 36%
India, Middle East & Africa 0.67 0.32 -52%
Latin America 0.63 0.51 -19%
North America 1.55 1.06 -32%
Total 1.10 0.79 -28%2019 2020 % ChangeAsia Pacific 1.83 1.96 8%
Europe 4.34 3.38 -22%
Greater China 1.17 0.64 -45%
India, Middle East & Africa 2.39 2.09 -13%
Latin America 2.46 2.22 -10%
North America 2.66 2.25 -15%
Total 2.81 2.37 -16%2019 2020 % ChangeTotal Vehicle Accident Rate (TVAR)
Number of vehicular accidents per million miles driven
Asia Pacific 0.14 0.14 0%
Europe 0.00 0.05 100%
Greater China 0.00 0.00 0%
India, Middle East & Africa 0.00 0.00 0%
Latin America 0.00 0.18 100%
North America 0.15 0.11 -89%
Total 0.08 0.09 13%2019 2020 % ChangeOccupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR)Number of occupational illnesses per million working hours
North America 0.65 0.34 -48%2019 2020 % ChangeLost Time Injury Rate (LTIR)Number of injuries with lost days per 100 workers, based on 200,000 working hours
Global 0.08 0.08 0%2019 2020 % ChangeSevere Vehicle Accident Rate (SVAR)1
Number of severe vehicular accidents per million miles drivenEcolab Employees 1 1 0%
Contract Employees 0 0 0%2019 2020 % Change Fatalities
1Includes fatalities, bodily injuries, vehicle rollovers, incidents 
involving drugs and/or alcohol and environmental spills to 
ground or waterways.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |60
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT 
Community Giving
Since 1986, the Ecolab Foundation has implemented 
community impact programs to support communities where our employees live and work, focusing on giving to local non-profit organizations in four strategic areas: youth and education, civic and community development, arts and culture and environment and conservation. Since the inception of the Ecolab Foundation, the company has contributed more than $131 million to non-profit organizations.
In 2020, Ecolab and its employees committed more 
than $26 million to local communities through Foundation and corporate giving, in-kind donations and employee volunteerism (using the value of volunteerism per Independent Sector). Of this, employees gave more than $3 million to nonprofit organizations around the world through the Ecolab Community Giving Program. 
Approximately 25% of the Ecolab Foundation’s 
funds in 2020, or $2.1 million, were committed to organizations supporting youth education and development. 190 grants were awarded to well-known organizations that support youth such as Boys and Girls Clubs and Junior Achievement, and also to local after-school and in-school programs in 17 major communities where our employees live and work. 
Another of the Ecolab Foundation’s focus areas 
is that of civic and community development. In 2020, $5.4 million of grant funding supported organizations that provide basic needs to our most vulnerable citizens: access to food, housing and job training. More than $2 million was targeted to nonprofits to help with COVID-19 pandemic relief and address social and racial justice community initiatives. Of the 455 nonprofits who were awarded grants through the Foundation’s Nonprofit Grant Program, 87.6% of them indicated that their grant addresses decreasing disparities for one or more of these groups: ethnically diverse (non-white) individuals, individuals with disabilities, LGBTQ+ individuals, veterans, women and girls or another area of diversity.
In 2020, Ecolab provided $1.3 million of direct and 
indirect funding grants to community partners that work with Saint Paul Public Schools in the U.S. where 70% of students are eligible for free or reduced-price lunch. Ecolab has targeted partnerships with schools on the West side of Saint Paul where we support programming at Humboldt Schools, Riverview West Side School of Excellence and Cherokee Heights Elementary School. Examples of directly funded initiatives include college preparatory and access programs (AVID and College Possible), S.T.E.M. in-class and out-of-class offerings and subsidized admission to performing arts organizations.
Ecolab also recognizes the contributions individual 
employees make in their communities. Through the Ecolab Dollars for Doers and Community Leadership programs, employees can apply for grants for qualifying non-profit agencies where they undertake 25+ hours of volunteer work annually or board leadership involvement. In 2020, 153 grants were distributed under these programs totaling more  than $60,000. 
Through the Ecolab Community Giving Program, 
Ecolab Foundation matches 50% of employee donations, up to $1,000, per employee per year (some restrictions apply). In 2020, the Ecolab Community Giving Program raised over $3 million for more than 3,500 nonprofits around the world and the Foundation matched employees’ requested donations totaling more than $500,000. Program updates in 2020 enabled year-round giving, allowing employees to donate when able, which led to a 3% increase in donations over 2019. Setting an example from the top, with 100% of Ecolab’s top executives participating, the program shows the importance of giving as part of the Ecolab culture. 
We are committed to empowering employees to 
give back in communities where we have significant operations. To facilitate local engagement and impact, we have Community Relations Councils in 16 regional locations around the U.S. involving 114 local Ecolab employee volunteers who help administer the Ecolab Foundation Nonprofit Grant Program. These local employees are most in touch with the needs of their communities and are well equipped to help determine which organization they believe contributions can have the greatest impact. In 2020, these committees help administer 329 grants to non-profits and schools totaling $1.5 million.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |61
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Volunteerism
In a year when a global pandemic necessitated that 
employees work from home, many volunteer activities switched to virtual or were delayed until events could safely happen outside. Nonetheless, Ecolab employees were engaged as an asset to their communities, giving time and talent. In 2020, 3,270 individuals, or 7.2% of global employees, volunteered in at least one effort providing a value of over $2 million back into their local communities.Community Partnerships
Solutions for Life is Ecolab’s global giving program that enhances our mission to conserve water and improve hygiene around the world through collaborations with non-governmental organizations (NGOs), global philanthropy and employee volunteerism. Solutions for Life is funded by Ecolab through the Ecolab Foundation. Through Solutions for Life, Ecolab supports the work of two strategic global nonprofit partners: The Nature Conservancy and the Project WET Foundation.
The Nature Conservancy 
Ecolab continues to support its partnership with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) securing and restoring water sources around the globe. Region-specific examples of positive impacts from our partnership with TNC in the United States, Mexico and China are available in the Biodiversity section of this report. 
Project WET
Through our partnership with the Project WET (Water Education for Teachers) Foundation, children around the globe are learning about water conservation and hygiene through a youth-focused curriculum, called the Clean and Conserve Education Program. Since launching the partnership in 2014, the program has reached more than eight million individuals in 98 countries with its fun, hands-on lessons about water conservation and healthy hygiene practices. The Clean and Conserve curriculum resources, along with training videos, can be downloaded in multiple languages free of charge. 
In addition, Ecolab sponsors Project WET’s 
Discoverwater.org, an interactive website that hosts free activities – currently available in English, Spanish and Mandarin – about the role of water in our lives. In 2020, the website had more than 250,000 unique users.
Disaster Response
As the world’s leading supplier of cleaning and sanitizing products and solutions, Ecolab is proud of our in-kind donation program which provides needed cleaning and sanitizing products to organizations in areas where natural disasters have occurred. In 2020, $11.3 million worth of Ecolab products, equaling 4.5 million pounds, went to worldwide relief efforts in partnership with non-profit World Emergency Relief to areas affected by COVID-19. Donations were distributed in locations around the globe including Canada, Chile, Columbia, Costa Rica, Ghana, Greece, Italy, Mauritius, New Zealand, Sierra Leone, South Africa, the United States and Uruguay.
Measuring our Impact
Annually, we solicit grants feedback via our Impact Survey to nonprofit grantees. The survey gathers information to assess the effectiveness of Ecolab Foundation grants. This process measures the overall difference Ecolab’s grants make for the organizations and communities served, such as how the grant helps grantees expand program reach, improve outcomes, develop new programs and enhance internal capacity. Results are utilized by Ecolab Foundation staff to better understand how our investments are making a difference in our communities. 
In the most recent Impact Survey of Ecolab Foundation 
grant recipients:•
99% said the
y accomplished or reached their goal(s)
•97
% reported Ecolab grants made a difference in
relation to their overall organizational goals
•74
% reported the grant increased their
organization’s profile, brand awareness andreputation
•
72% r
eported their clients/constituents developed
new or improved existing skills because of the grantfrom Ecolab76,955
volunteer hours, globally
22 hours
average contributed per volunteer
144
volunteer events (in 14 countries)1.7 hours
average volunteering hours per 
employee, globally
3,559
individual volunteers, or 7.9% of global employeesVOLUNTEER METRICS
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |62OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Governance
A LEADER IN CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY
We know that to achieve our work to make the world cleane r, 
s
afer and healthie r, we need to operate ethically, responsibly and 
sus
tainabl y. The work we do matters, and the way we do it matters 
t
o our associates, customers, investors and the communities in 
which w
e and our customers operate.
E
colab is recognized as a leading environmental, social and 
go
vernance (ESG) company for our commitment to delivering the 
righ
t results in the right wa y. We are focu sed on operating safely 
and s
ustainabl y. We believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce 
is c
ritical to our success. We abide by a strict code of conduct that 
guides o
ur daily actions. And we strive to enrich our communities.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |63
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
GOVERNANCE
The business and affairs of the Company are 
managed under the overall direction of the Board of 
Directors. To assist it in carrying out its duties, the 
Board has delegated certain authority to five 
standing committees: Audit, Compensation, Finance, 
Governance and 
Safety, Health & Environment.
HUMAN RIGHTS 
Ecolab is committed to enhancing the well-being 
of people and communities around the world and has established formal policies and procedures to ensure human rights are respected across our global operations and supply chain.  
Our Policy
We are committed to respecting international human rights standards, as defined by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights which include the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We operate in alignment with the policies and procedures outlined in the SA8000 Standard which seek to protect basic human rights of workers. We aspire to create an inclusive and respectful work environment, establish decent working conditions and work to eliminate all forms of child and forced labor, discrimination, anti-corruption and bribery. We have regional programs in place to assess conformity with these policies and commitments. In addition, Ecolab undertakes compliance and ethics assessments to better understand human rights related risks.Supporting Policies and Positions
•Our Code of Conduct contains detailed humanrigh
ts aspects relevant to our operations and
requires Ecolab employees to report any potentialHuman Rights issues.
•
Our Ethic
al Sourcing Standards communicate to our
vendors and business partners our expectationson human rights and ethics and our standardsfor operation, including addressing implicationsof the UK Modern Slavery Act and the CaliforniaTransparency in Supply Chains Act.
•
Our Supplier C
ode of Conduct sets out expectations
for suppliers in the areas of integrity, ethical andlegal standards and compliance among other topics.
•
Our Anti-Human T
rafficking Policy communicatesour expectations around Slavery and Human Trafficking. 
•
Our Con
flict Minerals Policy supports human rights
organizations to end violence and atrocities inCentral Africa, specifically the Democratic Republicof the Congo (DRC) and nine adjoining countries.
Disclosure
It is Ecolab’s policy to disclose any human rights controversies which may relate to child employment, female or minority rights infringement, or other issues pertaining to human rights as defined by the EEOC. No fines related to human rights issues have been levied against the company by any governmental organization in the past five years.
13 board members
85% of independent board members 
38% female representation
15% ethnically and /or racially diverse
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |64
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
INTEGRITY AND ETHICS 
We ar
e committed to upholding the highest legal and 
ethical standards, regardless of when and where we 
conduct business. Available in 27 languages, our Code 
of Conduct applies to all Ecolab officers, directors and 
employees and serves as a guide for how to act and 
make ethical decisions in compliance with the Code 
and the laws of the countries where we do business. 
All new employees participate in a facilitated training 
session on the Code of Conduct and are required to 
read the Code and acknowledge compliance with it. 
On an annual basis, all Ecolab employees and almost 
all contingent workers are required to participate in 
an online or in-person training refresher course and 
provide a signature of completion and compliance. In 
addition, all governance body members are required 
to certify compliance with the Code annually. Our 
annual goal is to have 100% of global employees, 
including all senior managers, provide a signature to 
certify completion and compliance. In 2020, we had a 
99% global completion rate. The Code of Conduct 
does not apply to third-party organizations providing 
security personnel to Ecolab facilities.
Employees can report a Code concern to their 
manager; the Human Resources, Compliance or Law 
Departments; or Ecolab’s third-party Code of Conduct 
helpline or web reporting service which are utilized by 
internal and external reporters to convey concerns. 
All reports of potential Code violations are 
thoroughly investigated, and mitigation steps are put 
in place. 
The whistleblower program is managed by the Global 
Complianc e 
Departmen t which ensur es that report s are 
investigated in a timely manner and consistent action 
is taken based on the results of the investigation. 
Investigation data and key case details are reported to 
the Audit C
ommittee of the Board of Directors by the 
Chief C
ompliance Officer on a quarterly basis.We conduct annual audits to monitor compliance 
with the Code of Conduct and global governance and ethics regulations. Our Annual Compliance Assessment is led by the Global Compliance department and is designed to identify legal and regulatory compliance risks in 14 risk areas, including the assessment of human rights issues. Our Annual Code of Conduct Audit is completed by the Audit department. Results from both assessments are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Ecolab’s anti-corruption policies and procedures are communicated through the annual Code of Conduct training, which is mandatory for all employees and almost all contingent workers globally. In addition, annual online anti-corruption training is mandatory for all employees that may have relevant business responsibilities or interactions. More detailed anti-corruption training is provided to senior leaders in all regions and in high-risk locations. Overall, there was a 97% completion rate of anti-corruption training in 2020. 
Ecolab’s anti-corruption policies are available in 24 
different languages and require all intermediaries operating or exporting outside the United States to sign and maintain current anti-corruption undertakings communicating our policies. In higher-risk countries, certain intermediaries have also received training from company personnel.
As part of the company’s internal audit program, 
approximately 30 audits are completed each year focusing on internal/financial controls and operational processes, out of approximately 115 auditable units including countries, divisions and departments. Of these units, approximately 50 are individual country operating locations which are audited over a four- to five-year cycle. In these operational audits, procedures include testing controls relevant to Ecolab’s anti-corruption program. In addition, three anti-corruption specific audits were completed in 2020 as part of Ecolab’s anti-corruption program. The Global Compliance department also completes various assessments for all regions and business units, including recently acquired operations. Few significant risks were identified; risks relating to the use of intermediaries were the highest risk area identified.REGION
 2020An
ti-Corruption Training Completion Rates
Asia Pacific  98%
Eur
ope 98%
Gre
ater China  93%
India, Middle Eas
t & Africa  99%
Latin America  96%
North Americ
a 98%
To
tal 97%
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |65
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY 
A
t Ecolab, the security of our systems and solutions 
is a top priorit y. Our Board of Directors oversees 
Ecolab’s global information security strategy and 
program and includes a cybersecurity expert that 
joined the Board in 2014. Our cybersecurity strategy 
and programs are overseen by our Chief Information 
Security Offi cer (CISO) who chairs an executive-
level steering committee, the Information Security 
Steering Committee, and reports directly to the Chief 
Information Offi cer. 
Ecolab’s cybersecurity and privacy teams work to 
safeguard the company and customer’s data. We 
partner with other companies and industry leaders 
to protect access to information, ensure the security 
of data storage and transmission and track and 
communicate information regarding cyber threats. 
We continuously test our technical defenses with 
internal and external trained professionals seeking to 
probe the company’s cybersecurity defenses and have 
a Security Incident Response team that is available 
24/7, 365 days of the yea r.
Our Global Privacy Policy outlines how Ecolab uses 
and safeguards personal data, periodically reviews 
security measures and ensures that we are compliant 
with the data privacy laws and regulations of the 
jurisdictions in which we operate, including the EU 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This 
policy is published in 16 languages. 
In 2020, Ecolab had zero substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of customer privacy or losses of 
customer data. While the COVID-19 pandemic has created many 
obstacles for companies, Ecolab has sped up digiti-zation plans to overcome these barriers. 
Ecolab’s Remote Assist program supports customers 
with mixed reality and IoT technology when access to a facility is restricted. Using this technology, an Ecolab field representative wears mixed reality goggles to transmit live audio, video and other information from inside a facility back to a team of experts that can guide the operation. This ensures social distancing and gives Ecolab access to facilities that have closed or restricted access during the pandemic, helping keep them active when faced with reduced operations or complete shutdowns.Remote Assist enables quicker response times and allows multiple experts to collaborate to diagnose and troubleshoot customer problems without having to travel to the site. The technology is also being leveraged to troubleshoot mechanical malfunctions, audit operations, identify leaks, train new employees and install equipment. This is just one example of how digital tools can boost not only productivity, but resiliency in the face of unprece-dented challenges. 
And yet while we face this pandemic, other chal-
lenges can’t wait. The existential threats of climate change and water scarcity demand that industries around the globe take action to lower carbon emissions, conserve water and reduce waste. By deploying transformative digital innovation and adopting best practices, Ecolab helps businesses achieve financial goals while working toward a net-zero carbon and water footprint. 
By harnessing the power of billions of data points, 
cloud-to-cloud integration and digital twin tech-nology, companies can assess performance across their enterprise and optimize their operations in real time. A cloud-based digital platform such as ECOLAB3D™ uses predictive analytics and machine learning – backed by a global team of on-site and remote experts – to help companies optimize their operations and reduce their environmental foot-print at the same time. By leveraging technology and adopting circular water strategies that go beyond their factory fence, companies can not only reduce their water use, but have a positive water impact in the watersheds they operate.GET INSIGHT. TAKE ACTION. DELIVER VALUE.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |66
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
SUPPLIER RELATIONS
Approach
Our Supplier Code of Conduct includes expectations 
around human rights, ethics, labor rights, 
employment law, health and safety, environment, fair 
compe
tition and supplied materials. The Supplier 
Code a
pplies to the selection and retention of all 
suppliers that provide goods and /or services to 
Ec
olab worldwide, including raw material suppliers, 
semi-finished or
 finished goods suppliers, packaging 
suppliers, contractors, contract manufacturers 
and service providers/suppliers. In many cases, 
expect
ations that suppliers comply with the Supplier 
Code a
nd that they impose the same compliance 
requir
ements with their subcontractors and third 
par
ties are written into supplier contracts. To e nsure 
full understanding of these expectations, Ecolab 
publishes t
his policy in 11 l anguages. 
Suppliers are expected to comply with all applicable 
country labo r, employment and environmental laws 
and regulations, and meet our Ethical Sourcing 
Standards  regarding forced labo r, child labor, health 
and saf
ety in the workplace, fair pay, harassment, 
diversity, ethics and environmental policies. Our 
supplier requirements are based on international 
standards including the UN Declaration of Human 
Rights, the UN Convention on the Rights of the 
Child and the Conventions of the International 
Labor Organization (ILO) including its Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work. 
In addition, we require that suppliers have systems 
in place to prevent and mitigate pollution, avoid the 
use of hazardous materials where possible, engage 
in reuse and recycling activities, avoid environmental 
impacts with the potential to adversely impact human 
health or the environment and have systems in place 
to conserve and optimize the use of natural resources 
sustainably, such as energy, water and materials.The scope of our sourcing r equirements includes 
the carbon emissions footprint of our individual 
suppliers (Scope 3), as well as the total carbon 
impact of our own supply chain (Scope 1  an d 2). 
When analyzing our suppliers carbon impact, w hich 
is comprised of over 20,000 direct and indirect 
suppliers, we found that their carbon footprint is 
t
en times la rger than our own. As part of Ecolab’s 
science-based emissions reduction target, E c olab has 
committed to work with suppliers representing 70% 
o
f Scope 3  em issions (covering purchased goods 
and services, capital goods, upstream transportation 
and d
istribution, business travel and downstream 
tr
ansportation and distribution) to set ambitious 
c
arbon reduction targets aligned with the science-
based ta
rget methodology by 2024. By working with 
our su
pply chain partners to adopt aggressive 
climate goals, Ec olab is accelerating meaningful 
action to  mitigate cl imate change.
We have established a Code of Conduct hotline 
to facilitate reporting of potential violations by 
internal and external stakeholders. Any concerns 
flagged through the Ethical Sourcing Survey or 
Code of Conduct hotline are fully investigated, 
and mitigation steps are put in place to improve 
supplier performance and reduce or eliminate risk. 
If significant and urgent concerns are identified that 
cannot be remediated, suppliers are removed from 
Ecolab’s approved list. 
To reinforce supplier expectations internally, we 
conduct an online, annual training for Supply Chain, 
Research and Development and Regulatory Affairs 
associates to help them identify environmental, 
ethical and labor concerns when interacting with 
suppliers. This training encourages associates to 
report concerns via the Code of Conduct hotline. 
Results from the training are shared with leadership 
and utilized to identify additional training needs. Screening Process
Our suppliers go through a methodical screening 
process before being added to our portfolio, which includes detailed legal, financial, operational, quality and reputational risk assessments. For high-risk suppliers and suppliers deemed critical to Ecolab’s business, we conduct on-site assessments. 
Ecolab’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethical 
Sourcing Standards are used to screen 100% of new suppliers for social and environmental criteria. In addition, we have published an Anti-Human Trafficking Policy and Conflict Minerals Policy which communicate additional details on our expectations for suppliers. To ensure compliance with our Conflict Minerals Policy , new suppliers are asked if they have 
their own internal program/policy and if they have identified the risk it presents in their supply chain.  
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |67
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Ongoing Supplier Assessments 
Ecolab conducts a bi-annua l Ethical Sourcing Survey 
to assess high-risk suppli ers identified through 
internal assessments and reporting from third-party 
or
ganizations such as Human Rights Watch and 
T
ransparency International. The Ethical Sourcing 
Survey evaluates compliance with E colab’s Supplier 
Code of Conduct and Ethical Sourcing Standards 
and c
overs health and safety, ethics, employment 
practices, diversity, harassment, environmental 
policy and environmental sustainability, including 
energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, 
w
aste management and water consumption.
T
o evaluate and address ris ks of human trafficking 
and slavery in its supply chains, Ecolab developed 
a supplier ethical assessment. In parts of Ecolab’s 
business where there is an elevated risk of slavery 
and human trafficking, suppl iers complete this 
assessment to verify compliance with Ecolab’s 
e
thical sourcing requirements. Ecolab has required 
such suppliers in the chemi cal, packaging, equipment 
and contract manufacturing categories to complete 
the assessment, and we plan to expand the number 
and sc
ope of suppliers required to complete the 
assessment. Suppliers are qu estioned not only 
on their policies, but on management practices  
and specific performance rel ated to protection 
of employees’ human rights and prevention and 
elimination of trafficking and slaver y. 
The U.S. Department of Labo r issues an annual List  
of Goods Produced by Child Labor or F orced Labo r, 
which is generally consistent with lists issued by 
organizations such as Walk Free F oundation. The 
2
020 U.S. Department of Labo r List identifies 155 
goods produced by child labor and /or forced labor 
in 77 countries. Goods on the List that are, or may 
be, in Ecolab’s global supp ly chain include palm 
oil from Malaysia and Indon esia and/or electrical 
components /electronics from China.Ecolab’s Global Procurement Team has begun 
monitoring sources of information on forced labor such as the U.S. Customs & Border Patrol’s (CBP’s) Withhold Release Orders to identify potential risks within our supply chain. For example, in late 2020 CBP issued Withhold Release Orders against two Malaysian companies, Sime Darby Plantation Berhad and FGV Holdings Berhad for palm oil and palm oil products. This was a result of information that reasonably indicated the presence of forced labor in the companies’ product processes. The Ecolab Global Procurement team analyzed the Ecolab global supply chain to identify purchases of palm oil or products containing palm oil, then conducted an inquiry with those suppliers to verify the sources of palm oil. No palm oil originating from FGV or Sime Darby was identified through this process.
Ecolab’s business lines, including the manufacture 
and sale of cleaning chemicals and provision of water, hygiene and infection prevention services to other businesses, have not been identified by the International Labor Organizations’ (ILO), Walk Free or other organizations as high-risk industries. Of the twenty countries with the highest estimated prevalence of modern slavery, based on the Walk Free Foundation Global Slavery Index, Ecolab does business in three countries, including Nicaragua, Russia and China representing approximately 5% of Ecolab’s global procurement spend and 950 suppliers. We have not received reports of evidence or indications of modern slavery within our operations or our industry sector. 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |68
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Approach
Supplier diversity at Ecolab means driving 
competitiveness and economic inclusion. We believe:
• The best tea ms and partners are diverse and inclusive
•Solving complex problems requ ires diverse
perspectives and experiences
•Driving our partner marketp lace to equitably
reflect our diverse society makes our business
more attractive to customers, employees and
investors, and benefits the communities in which
we live, work and serve
We define diverse suppliers as a small business as 
defined by CFR Title 13, Chapter 1, Part 121, or other small business association programs, or as a supplier certified by one of the following organizations or agencies: National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC), National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC), Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC), federal government agencies – including Veteran Affairs agencies – and/or state or local government agencies. Goals
In 2020, Ecolab ensured that supplier diversity goals were integrated into our larger diversity, equity and inclusion strategy and that appropriate goals, resources and tools were put in place to double our spend with diverse suppliers by 2022.
In 2020, we also added a dedicated, Director-level 
resource to increase diverse supplier spend and drive focus on:
•
Building incre
ased data capabilities and a
leadership accountability dashboard
•Growing e
xternal partnerships with organizations
and customers
•Increasing tr
aining and awareness within the
procurement organization and among business
stakeholders
•Including divers
e suppliers in all go-to-market
sourcing activities where a diverse supplier canmeet product and customer requirements
We’ll accomplish this work by building a scalable foundation starting in the U.S., and then leveraging data analytics and insights to expand scope to additional countries. All leaders across the organization who influence spend with third party suppliers are responsible for achieving supplier diversity goals. 
In 2020, Ecolab conducted business with over 500 
diverse suppliers in all categories of diverse spend, of which 27% had more than two diverse indicators. Ecolab’s 2020 spend with diverse suppliers totaled approximately $105 million, or 3.1% of all U.S. procurement spend. Supporting Local Suppliers 
Fundamentally, we choose to buy from suppliers within the regions in which we operate that abide by the ethical and sustainability goals set forth by our company. We base our purchasing decisions on safety, quality, service and price, opting to purchase within the region whenever possible to minimize emissions from shipping materials overseas and support local economies. More than 90% of our purchases are from local suppliers within our regions.
Local community is defined as the major regions in 
which we operate, including Asia Pacific, Europe, Greater China, India, Middle East and Africa, Latin America and North America. Significant locations of operations are defined as our manufacturing facilities and operation centers within the regions in which we operate. 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |69
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
POLITICAL ACTION
Public Policy
Engaging with policymakers is one means of 
furthering our sustainability objectives. We communicate with policymakers in proactive policy discussions, bringing our market segment and scientific expertise to the table on water, waste, food safety and customer health issues to ensure public policy decisions are grounded in principles of sound science. Ecolab engages with federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies, industry and customer trade associations and non-governmental organizations that provide a forum for environmental policy discussion relevant to our industry. These include a diverse set of stakeholders which focus on water-related issues and climate mitigation and adaptation issues to influence climate policy. 
We maintain a formal process to manage all direct 
and indirect engagement with policy makers and related organizations to ensure we have a common approach consistent with our business strategy. This process covers the scope and business impact of specific policy issues and is integrated into the annual business continuity and risk management assessment process so any activities that influence policy are evaluated for alignment with Ecolab’s strategic corporate business strategy. If inconsistent, these are immediately flagged for action by the Government Relations team. Political Contributions
Ecolab’s Political Contri bution Policy provides an 
approval process for corporate political contributions 
b
y a committee of executives, as well as an annual 
r
eview of the policy and political contributions by 
the Governance Committee of the Ecolab Board of 
Directors. In 2020, Ecolab Inc. contributed $30,000 
t
o the Democratic Governors  Association and 
$30,000 to the GOPAC, Inc.  
Ecolab associates also can  support the company’s 
political action committee, the Ecolab Inc. Political 
A
ction Committee (ECOPAC).  ECOPAC, which is 
funded by voluntary contri butions from Ecolab 
associates, is a nonpartisan committee that 
suppor
ts candidates for Congress who share our 
b
asic philosophies and values. It contributes to 
legislators from across the country where the 
c
ompany transacts business. Contributions are 
determined by a board of Ecolab executives based on 
criteria including representation of Ecolab facilities  
and/or significant base of employees, committee 
membership, committee leade rship, positions on 
issues and partisan balance. ECOPAC does not 
support candidates for state, local or presidential 
office. A
 list of all poli tical contributions by ECO PAC 
and Ecolab is posted semi-ann ually to the Ecolab 
website under Political Contribution Reporting. Membership of Associations 
Industry and policy groups have a unique ability 
to influence standards, regulations and practices. Ecolab engages with a broad range of industry groups, sharing expertise and insights to help these membership organizations enhance sustainability leadership across their respective industries. 
In 2020, Ecolab actively participated in sustainability-
related work groups within the following: A.I.S.E. (International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Products); American Chemistry Council; American Cleaning Institute; American Hotel & Lodging Association; Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable; Chemical Footprint Project; Consumer Goods Forum; Household and Commercial Products Association; Corporate Eco Forum; Council of Great Lakes Industries; Food Marketing Institute; Global Food Safety Initiative; Grocery Manufacturers Association; International Organization for Standardization; National Association for Environmental Management; National Association of Manufacturers; National Restaurant Association; Steel Manufacturers Association; Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council; United States Council for International Business; and World Travel and Tourism Council.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |70
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
GLOBAL TAX
Approach
We are committed to complying with all tax laws 
and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we do business and are guided by appropriate international standards. The tax we pay is an integral part of our positive economic and social impact and supports the advancement of the countries in which we operate. Our tax structures have economic substance and adhere to the arm’s-length standard in accordance with the current transfer pricing principles outlined by the Organization of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Our UK Tax Strategy Statement is available on our website.
Our global tax policies and strategies are periodically 
reviewed and authorized by our Internal Finance Committee as well as the Finance and Audit Committees of Ecolab’s Board of Directors. In addition, the tax function is reviewed as part of our internal controls audit and by our external auditor, PwC. The Tax department is subject to Ecolab’s existing reporting mechanisms within the Global Finance function and whistleblower program managed by the Global Compliance department. Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax are covered by the tax department reporting into the Chief Financial Officer.  
Financial Support Received 
In 2020, Ecolab received nominal monetary support, awards, tax reliefs or subsidies directly from governments. We received federal and state tax credits in the United States to support our research and development initiatives totaling approximately $23.6 million received in 2020 related to 2019 tax returns. Ecolab also received a U.S. federal family medical leave credit totaling approximately $1.3 million. Ecolab received a Dominican Republic tax holiday of $8.5 million in 2020 (valued benefit equals the difference in the statutory tax rate applied to Ecolab’s income for 2019 compared to the zero-tax paid). Additionally, the Singapore government allows a reduced income tax rate on certain income for which Ecolab anticipates a tax reduction of $18.4 million in 2020. Anticipated tax deductions by the Australian government for research and development expenditures in Australia will total approximately $217,000 for 2020.
COMPLIANCE
In 2020, there were no new material grievances related to environmental, health and safety, product and service information and labeling or marketing communications impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms. We are aware of a relatively small number of noncompliance issues and have a proactive and robust compliance program to address them promptly and completely. None of these issues resulted in material fines or penalties to the company under applicable reporting requirements. Additional information is provided in Ecolab’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019in Part 1, Item 1, under Environmental Remediationand Proceedings and in Note 15 (“Litigation andEnvironmental Matters”).
In 2020, our operations did not experience spills 
of material significance to our company or the communities in which we operate. There were no facilities identified or reported that may significantly impact water bodies from discharges of water and runoff. None of the river basins and water sources where Ecolab has operations are designated as protected areas (nationally or internationally). In 2020, Ecolab’s Jianghai, China facility received one penalty of approximately $18,000 USD for exceedance of its wastewater permit limit for ammoniacal nitrogen (NH3-N). 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |71
Ecolab is steadfast in upholding our longstanding commitment to our 
stakeholders and business strategy, while aligning with respected global frameworks. Reporting publicly and consistently on our performance demonstrates our dedication to transparency and we are committed to obtaining third party assurance of our non-financial data to improve accountability and enhance stakeholder confidence in our reporting. This Appendix summarizes our management approaches and performance related to key environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics identified in our most recent materiality assessment and aligns to select Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), World Economic Forum Stakeholder Capitalism and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) disclosure standards. In addition, we are a Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Supporter. For detailed reporting on TCFD recommendations and disclosures, please see our annual CDP Climate Change Report. TRANSPARENCY THROUGH RECOGNIZED FRAMEWORKSAppendix
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |72
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) REFERENCE TABLE
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, standards-setting organization that promotes disclosure of material sustainability information 
to meet investor needs. This table references the Standards for the Chemicals and Professional Services industries as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System (SICS) and outlines where Ecolab addresses each topic. 
TOPIC  SASB CODE  ACCOUNTNIG METRIC  2020 RESPONSE OR CRO SS-REFERENCE
Greenhouse Gas EmissionsRT-CH-110a.1
Air Quality 
Hazardous Waste Management
Community Relations
Product Design for  
Use-Phase EfficiencyWorkforce Health and SafetyEnergy Management
Water ManagementRT-CH-110a.2
RT-CH-120a.1
RT-CH-150a.1
RT-CH-210a.1
RT-CH-410a.1RT-CH-320a.1
RT-CH-320a.2RT-CH-130a.1
RT-CH-140a.1
RT-CH-140a.2
RT-CH-140a.3Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under 
emissions-limiting regulations
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage 
Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets
Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOx (excluding N2O), 
(2) SOx, (3) volatile organic compounds (VOCx), and (4) hazardousair pollutants (HAPs)
Amount of hazardous waste generated; percentage recycled
Discussion of engagement processes to manage risks and 
opportunities associated with community interests
Revenue from products designed for use-phase resource efficiency(1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and (2) fatality rate for
(a) direct employees and (b) contract employees
Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce exposure to 
employees and contract workers to long-term (chronic) health risksHealth and Safety (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity,(3) percentage renewable, (4) total self-generated energy
(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of
each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water 
quality permits, standards, and regulations
Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies 
and practice to mitigate those risks282,843 MT CO2e
Energy & Emissions
1.NOx emissions = 573.3 MT
2.SOx emissions = 2.49 MT
3.VOCx emissions = 11.3 MT
4.HAPs = 1.6 MT
Hazardous waste generated = 25,872 MT
Percentage hazardous waste recycled = 0.49%
Stakeholder Engagement 
External Initiatives Water Management and Collective Action
We have determined that 64% of our 2020 revenue can be 
considered clean. 1. TRIR = 0.79 per 200,000 hours worked
2a. 0.002 per 200,000 hours worked2b. 01.Total energy consumed = 5,941,461 GJ
2.Percentage grid electricity = 6.4%
3.Percentage renewable = 67. 6%
4.Total self-generated energy = 201,729 GJ
1.Total water withdr
awn = 6,557.9 thousand cubic meters
2.Total water consumed = 1,561.9 thousand cubic meters
18% = Percent of total water withdrawn in regions with“High” or “Extremely High” Baseline Water Stress
One incident
2020 CDP Water Security Report
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |73
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) REFERENCE TABLE
TOPIC  SA SB CODE  AC COUNTNIG METRIC  20 20 RESPONSE OR CROSS-REFERENCE
Safety and Environmental 
Stewardship of Chemicals
Genetically Modified 
Organisms
Management of the Legal 
& Regulatory Environment
Operational Safety, Emergency 
Preparedness & Response
Workforce Diversity 
& Engagement
Professional IntegrityData SecurityRT-CH-410b.1
RT-CH-410c.1
RT-CH-530a.1
RT-CH-540a.1
SV-PS-330a.1SV-PS-230a.1RT-CH-540a.2
SV-PS-330a.2
SV-PS-330a.3
SV-PS-510a.1
SV-PS-510a.2SV-PS-230a.2
SV-PS-230a.3RT-CH-410b.2(1) Percentage of products that contain Globally Harmonized System of
Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) Category 1 and 2 Healthand Environmental Hazardous Substances, (2) percentage of such prod-ucts that have undergone a hazard assessment
Percentage of products by revenue that contain genetically modified 
organisms (GMOs)
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental and social factors affecting the industry
Number of transport incidents
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for (1) 
executive management and (2) all other employeesDescription of approach to identifying and addressing data security risksProcess Safety Incidents Count (PSIC), Process Safety Total Incident 
Rate (PSTIR), and Process Safety Incident Severity Rate (PSISR)
(1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for employees
Employee engagement as a percentage
Description of approach to ensuring professional integrity
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with professional integrityDescription of policies and practices relating to collection, usage, and 
retention of customer information
(1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving customers’ confi-
dential business information (CBI) or personally identifiable information(PII), (3) number of customers affectedIn 2020, Ecolab had zero substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data.Discussion of strategy to (1) manage chemicals of concern and (2) de-velop alternatives with reduced human and/or environmental impact1. 80% of Ecolab products have GHS category 1 and/or 2warnings on the product, primarily due to our commitmentto minimize our carbon footprint and packaging wastethrough the use of super concentrated products. When prod-ucts are used as directed, this percentage drops significantly,particularly across our Institutional North America portfolio,where over 73% of our products do not require any personalprotective equipment.2. 100% of Ecolab products are evaluated for strict compli-ance with applicable regulatory requirements and assessedby the Regulatory Affairs and business teams for hazardsusing GHS and OECD standards.
0% - Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) are not relevant 
to Ecolab’s business as Ecolab does not produce or use GMOs.
Public Policy 
2020 CDP Water Security Report2020 CDP Climate Change Report
295 global transport incidents
1) 2.9% Asian, 2.9% Black or African American, 5.9% Hispan-ic or Latino, 85.3% White, 2.9% Other2) 4.6% Asian, 9.3% Black or African American, 10.9% His-panic or Latino, 71.1% White, 2.3% Other, 1.8% Not Specified
Integrity and Ethics 
NoneEmployee engagement score = 63%Data Privacy and Security PSIC = 6
PSTIR = 0.093PSISR = 0.124 
1. Global voluntary turnover rate = 8.2%
2. Global involuntary turnover rate = 4.7%Global Privacy Policy Chemical Portfolio Management 
Product Design and Lifecycle Management 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |74
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM STAKEHOLDER CAPITALISM METRICS REFERENCE TABLE
The World Economic Forum Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics are a set of universal and comparable disclosures focused on people, planet, prosperity and principles of 
governance that are considered most critical for business, society and the environment, regardless of region or industry. This table identifies where Ecolab addresses each of the 21 core metrics.
THEME
 CORE METRIC  RESPONSE OR CRO
SS-REFERENCE
Governing Purpose
Nature Loss
Skills for the future
Innovation in better products and servicesQuality of Governing Body
Stakeholder Engagement
Fresh Water Availability
Health and Well-beingRisk and Opportunity OversightEthical Behaviour
Dignity and Equality
Wealth creation and employmentClimate Change
Community and social vitalityAnti-Corruption
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Talent Recruitment and RetentionCompensation 
2020 Annual Report and 10-K 
Global Tax  
2020 Annual Report and 10-K 
Global Tax  Emissions Performance 
2020 Annual Report and 10-KSetting purpose 
Land use and ecological sensitivity 
Training provided 
R&D spend ratioBoard composition 
Impact of material issues on stakeholders 
Water consumption and withdrawal in water stressed areas 
Health and Safety Integrating risk and opportunity into business process Anti-corruption 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Net number of jobs created Wage level 
Net investment Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 
Community investment Protected ethics advice and reporting mechanisms
Pay Equality
Net Economic Contribution Risk for incidents of child, forced or compulsory labour TCFD-implementation 
Country by country tax reportingIntegrity and Ethics
Compensation 
2020 Annual Report and 10-KHuman Rights 
Supplier Relations2020 CDP Climate Change ReportAbout Ecolab
Our Approach   
Biodiversity  
Human Capital Development 
1.6%Corporate Governance Board of Directors
Stakeholder Engagement
Sustainability Materiality Assessment
Water
Water Performance
Benefits
Health and Safety 2020 Annual Report and 10-K
2020 CDP Water Security Report2020 CDP Climate Change Report
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |75
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX
The GRI Content Index provides an overview of the material sustainability-related disclosures contained in the 2020 Ecolab Corporate Responsibility Report, 2020 
Ecolab Annual Report and Form 10-K and other sources. We report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI Standards: Core option. 
GRI 102 |  GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
DISCLOSURE  DES CRIPTION  RESPONSE
DIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSE
DIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSE
DIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSEOr
ganizational Profile
Strategy
Ethics and Integrity
Governance102-1  Name of the or ganization  Ec olab 
102-2  Activitie
s, brands, products, and services  About Ec
olab, 2020 Annual Report and 10-K
102-3  Loc
ation of headquarters  1 Ec
olab Place St. Paul, MN 55102
102-4 Loc
ation of operations  Loc
ations , About Ecolab , 2020 Annual Report and 10-K 
102-5 Ownership and legal f
orm 20
20 Annual Report and 10-K
102-6 Marke
ts served  About Ec
olab, 2020 Annual Report and 10-K
102-7  Sc
ale of the organization  About Ec
olab, 2020 Annual Report and 10-K
102-8 Inf
ormation on employees and other workers  Diver
sity, Equity and Inclusion
102-9 Supply chain  Our Operations 
10
2-10 Significan
t changes to the organization Ac
quisitions and Divestments 
102-11  Prec
autionary principle or approach  Chemical P
ortfolio Management 
102-12  External initiativ
es External Initiativ
es  
102-13  Membership o
f associations Politic
al Action 
102-14  St
atement from senior decision-maker  Exec
utive Letters
102-16  Value
s, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Int
egrity and Ethics 
102-17  Mechanisms for advic
e and concerns about ethics  Int
egrity and Ethics 
102-18  Gov
ernance structure Sus
tainability Approach and Governance102-15  Ke
y impacts, risks, and opportunitiesSustainability Materiality Assessment , 2020 CDP Water Security 
Report , 2020 CDP Climate Change Report , 2020 Annual Report 
and 10-K
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |76
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DISCLOSURE  DE SCRIPTION  RE SPONSE
DISCLOSURE
 DE
SCRIPTION
 RE
SPONSE
DISCLOSURE
 DE
SCRIPTION
 RE
SPONSEDISCLOSURE
 DE
SCRIPTION
 RE
SPONSEStakeholder Engagement
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
GRI 202: Market Presence 2016Reporting Practice102-40 Lis t of Stakeholder Groups S takeholder Engagement 
102-41 C
ollective bargaining agreements
 Labor R
elations 
102-42 Iden
tifying and selecting stakeholders S
takeholder Engagement 
102-43 Appr
oach to stakeholder engagement
 S
takeholder Engagement 
102-44 K
ey topics and concerns raised
 S
ustainability Materiality Assessment 
201-1
 Dir
ect economic value generated and distributed
 2
020 Annual Report and 10-K
201-2  Financial implic
ations and other risks and opportunities due to climate change
 2
020 CDP Climate Change Report , 2020 Annual Report and 10-K
201-3
 De
fined benefit and other retirement plans
 B
enefits , 2020 Annual Report and 10-K
201-4 Financial as
sistance received from government
 Glob
al Tax 
202-1  R
atios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage  C
ompensation 
202-2
 Pr
oportion of senior management hired from the local community
 T
alent Recruitment 102-45 En
tities included in the consolidated financial statements About E
colab , 2020 Annual Report and 10-K
102-46 De
fining report content and topic boundaries S
ustainability Materiality Assessment 
102-47 Lis
t of material topics S
ustainability Materiality Assessment 
102-48 R
estatements of information
 R
eporting Changes and Restatements for 2020 Reporting Period 
102-49 Change
s in reporting R
eporting Changes and Restatements for 2020 Reporting Period
102-50 R
eporting period About T
his Report 
102-51 Dat
e of most recent report About T
his Report 
102-52 R
eporting cycle
 About T
his Report 
102-53 C
ontact point for questions regarding the report sus
tainability@ecolab.com
102-54 Claims o
f reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards
 About T
his Report 
102-55 GRI c
ontent index
 Glob
al Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index 
102-56 Ext
ernal assurance Ext
ernal Assurance 
GRI 200 |  ECONOMIC STANDARDS
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |77
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DISCLOSURE  DES CRIPTION  RESPONSE
DIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSE
DIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSEDIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSEDIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSEGRI 2
03: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016
GRI 207: Tax 2019GRI 206: Anti-Competitive 2016GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016203-1  Infr astructure investments and services supported  Energy and Emis sions
203-2  Significan
t indirect economic impacts  eROI: Cr
eating and Measuring Value
205-1  Operations as
sessed for risks related to corruption  Anti-C
orruption 
205-2  Communic
ation and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures  Anti-C
orruption 
205-3  Con
firmed incidents of corruption and actions taken  Data una
vailable
207-1  Appro
ach to tax  Global T
ax, 2020 Annual Report and 10-K
207-2  Tax go
vernance, control, and risk management  Global T
ax, 2020 Annual Report and 10-K
207-3  St
akeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax  Global T
ax, 2020 Annual Report and 10-K
207-4 Coun
ty-by-country reporting  Global T
ax, 2020 Annual Report and 10-K206-1  Legal actions f
or anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices  No
ne in 2020204-1  Propor
tion of spending on local suppliers Supplier Div
ersity
DISCLOSURE  DES CRIPTION  RESPONSEGRI 3
01: Materials 2016
103-2  Management Appr oach  Materials Us e and Waste 
301-1  Materials us
ed by weight or volume  Materials Us
e and Waste Performance 
301-2  Rec
ycled input materials used  Materials Use and Waste Performance 
301-3  Reclaimed pr
oducts and their packaging materials  Materials Us
e and Waste Performance GRI 300 |  ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |78
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DISCLOSURE  DE SCRIPTION  RE SPONSE
DISCLOSURE
 DE
SCRIPTION
 RE
SPONSE
DISCLOSURE
 DE
SCRIPTION
 RE
SPONSEDISCLOSURE
 DE
SCRIPTION
 RE
SPONSEGRI 302: Energy 2016
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
GRI 305: Emissions 2016GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016103-2  Managemen t Approach  Ener gy & Emissions 
302-1
 Ener
gy consumption within the organization
 Ener
gy Performance 
302-2
 Ener
gy consumption outside of the organization
 Ener
gy Performance 
302-3
 Ener
gy intensity
 Ener
gy Performance 
302-4 R
eduction of energy consumption
 Ener
gy Performance 
302-5 R
eductions in energy requirements of products and services
 Ener
gy & Emissions 
103-2
 Managemen
t Approach
 W
ater 
303-1
 In
teractions with water as a shared resource
 W
ater 
303-2
 Managemen
t of water discharge-related impacts
 Mat
erials Use and Waste 
303-3
 W
ater withdrawal
 W
ater Performance 
303-4 W
ater discharge W
ater Performance 
303-5 W
ater consumption
 W
ater Performance 
103-2
 Managemen
t Approach
 Ener
gy & Emissions 
305-1
 Dir
ect (Scope 1) GHG emissions
 Emis
sions Performance 
305-2
 Ener
gy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
 Emis
sions Performance 
305-3
 Other indir
ect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
 Emis
sions Performance 
305-4 GHG emis
sions intensity
 Emis
sions Performance 
305-5 R
eduction of GHG emissions
 Emis
sions Performance 
305-6 Emis
sions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
 Emis
sions Performance 
305-7  Nitr
ogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions
 Emis
sions Performance 304-1
304-3304-2
304-4Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 
areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 
in areas affected by operationsSignificant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity
Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity 
Biodiversity 
Biodiversity  
Biodiversity 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |79
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DISCLOSURE  DE SCRIPTION  RE SPONSE
DISCLOSURE
 DE
SCRIPTION
 RE
SPONSEDISCLOSURE
 DE
SCRIPTION
 RE
SPONSE
DISCLOSURE
 DE
SCRIPTION
 RE
SPONSE
DISCLOSURE
 DE
SCRIPTION
 RE
SPONSEGRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2020
GRI 401: Employment 2016GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016306-1  W aste generation and significant waste-related impacts  Mat erials Use and Waste 
306-2
 Managemen
t of significant waste-related impacts
 Mat
erials Use and Waste 
306-3
 W
aste generated
 Mat
erial Use and Waste Performance 
306-4 W
aste diverted from disposal
 Mat
erial Use and Waste Performance 
306-5 W
aste directed to disposal
 Mat
erial Use and Waste Performance 
103-2
 S
ocial Disclosure of Management Approach
 S
ocial 
401-1
 Ne
w employee hires and employee turnover
 T
alent Recruitment , Talent Retention
401-3
 P
arental leave B
enefits307-1
 Non-c
ompliance with environmental laws and regulations
 C
ompliance
308-1
 Ne
w suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
 S
upplier Relations 
308-2
 Negativ
e environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
 S
upplier Relations 
402-1
 Minimum no
tice periods regarding operational changes Labor R
elationsGRI 400 |  SOCIAL STANDARDS 
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 
or part-time employeesBenefits
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |80
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DISCLOSURE  DES CRIPTION  RESPONSE
DIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSE
DIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSE
DIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSE
DIS
CLOSURE  DES
CRIPTION  RESPONSEGRI 40
3: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 2016
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016103-2  Management Appr oach  Health and S afety 
403-1  Occ
upational health and safety management system  Health and S
afety 
403-2  Hazar
d identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation  Health and S
afety 
403-3  Occ
upational health services  Health and S
afety 
404-1  Av
erage hours of training per year per employee  Human Capit
al Development 
404-2  Progr
ams for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs  Human Capit
al Development 
103-2  Management Appr
oach  Diver
sity, Equity and Inclusion
405-1  Diver
sity of governance bodies and employees  Diver
sity, Equity and Inclusion
405-2  Ratio o
f basic salary and remuneration of women to men  Compens
ation 
406-1  In
cidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  We do no
t report on this disclosure because the information is proprietary.403-5 Work
er training on occupational health and safety  Health and S
afety 
403-6 Promo
tion of worker health  Health and S
afety , Benefits
403-8  Work
ers covered by an occupational health and safety management system  Health and S
afety 
403-9 Work
-related injuries  Health and S
afety Performance
403-10  Work
-related ill health  Health and S
afety Performance403-4
404-3
407-1403-7Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 
occupational health and safety
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career develop-
ment reviews
Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may be at riskPrevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly 
linked by business relationshipsHealth and Safety 
Human Capital Development  
Labor RelationsHealth and Safety 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |81
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DISCLOSURE  DESCRIP TION  RESPONSEGRI 408:  Child Labor 2016
408-1  Operations and suppliers at signific ant risk for incidents of child labor  Supplier Relations 
DISCLOSURE  DESCRIP TION  RESPONSEGRI 410: S
ecurity Practices 2016
410-1  Securit y personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures  Integrit y and Ethics 
DISCLOSURE  DESCRIP TION  RESPONSEGRI 411: Righ
ts of Indigenous Peoples 2016
411-1 Incidents o f violations involving rights of indigenous peoples  Data unav ailable
DISCLOSURE  DESCRIP TION  RESPONSEGRI 414
: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 
414-1  New suppliers s creened using social criteria  Supplier Relations 
4
14-2 Negative social imp
acts in supply chain and actions taken  None in 202
0
DISCLOSURE  DESCRIP TION  RESPONSEGRI 415: Public P
olicy 2016
415-1  Political c ontributions  Political A ction DISCLOSURE  DESCRIP TION  RESPONSEGRI 409: For
ced or Compulsory Labor 2016
409-1Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory laborSupplier Relations 
DISCLOSURE  DESCRIP TION  RESPONSEGRI 412: Human Righ
ts Assessment 2016
412-2  Employee tr aining on human rights policies or procedures  Integrit y and Ethics 412-1
412-3Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments
Significant investment agreements and contracts that include  
human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screeningHuman Rights , Integrity and Ethics 
Data unavailable
DISCLOSURE  DESCRIP TION  RESPONSEGRI 413: L
ocal Communities 2016
413-1
413-2Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments,  
and development programs
Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communitiesCommunity Involvement
None in 2020
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |82
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DISCLOSURE  DESCRIP TION  RESPONSEGRI 416:  Customer Health and Safety 2016
DISCLOSURE  DESCRIPTION  RESPONSEGRI 418 : Customer Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and 
losses of customer dataNone in 2020
DISCLOSURE  DESCRIPTION  RESPONSEGRI 419 : Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area ComplianceDISCLOSURE  DESCRIPTION  RESPONSEGRI 4 17: Marketing and Labeling 2016
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 
service information and labelingCompliance417-1
417-3Requirements for product and service information and labeling
Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communicationsChemical Portfolio Management
None in 2020416-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 
products and servicesCompliance416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Chemical Portfolio Management  |83
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
REPORTING CHANGES AND 
RESTATEMENTS FOR 2020 REPORTING PERIOD 
Adjustments and Restatements of 
Information in Previous Reports
Unless otherwise noted, information and data have 
been revised to reflect the effect of the separation of ChampionX in 2020.
Due to organizational business realignment, India 
has been restated as part of the Middle East and Africa Market and subsequently removed from the Asia Pacific Market. Unless otherwise noted, information and data have been revised to reflect the effect of this realignment. 
Ecolab first developed an inventory of greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions as part of our commitment to reducing our carbon footprint in 2007. In 2009, we expanded the primary inventory to include other key operational environmental impacts including water withdrawal, wastewater discharge and waste disposal. During completion of these 2020 inventories, data gaps were identified and corrected, which impacted historical inventories and data. 
We also continue to implement many new data-
management collection processes to maintain our energy and water invoices for all owned and operationally controlled fixed facilities. This serves as another way to perform internal and third-party auditing of this data. Globally, Ecolab had a 68 percent invoice-compliance rate in 2020, meaning that 68 percent of all energy and water invoices from all owned and operationally controlled fixed facilities were used to compile 2020 data.
Net sales are adjusted to constant 2015 dollars 
to factor out inflation when normalizing Ecolab’s emissions performance against the baseline year, following best-practice guidance from the GHG Protocol and EPA Climate Leaders. Ecolab’s net sales are adjusted for inflation using Producer Price Indexes (PPI) from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
In 2019, the Process Safety Incident Severity Rate 
(PSISR) was incorrectly published as 47 in the 2019 Corporate Responsibility GRI Report . This number 
was not normalized to the total annual hours worked by employees, contractors and subcontractors. Thus, the restated PSISR for 2019 is 0.683.
Greenhouse Gas, Water, Wastewater and 
Waste Inventory Changes
In 2018 we changed the accounting method we use 
to report GHG emissions from location-based to market-based. Primarily, this allows us to account for the renewable electricity purchases we are making in Europe and in the U.S. (e.g., at the Ecolab Schuman campus in Eagan, Minn.). This resulted in updates to our historical inventories, including summary data for 2015. No significant changes impacting our 2015 summary data were identified during completion of the 2020 water, wastewater and waste inventory.
Ecolab has had its 2020 global Scope 1, 2 and 3 
(business travel only) GHG emissions, and global water withdrawal and water replenishment projects verified by a third party using the ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse Gases - Part 3 specification standard and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 for water consumption.REPORTING CHANGES AND 
RESTATEMENTS FOR 2020 REPORTING PERIOD 
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020  |84
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE 
Apex Companies, LLC (formerly the HSE division of 
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.) provided third-party assurance for Ecolab’s publicly reported 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report. This is the sixth year in a row they have provided assurance for Ecolab’s report. Apex completed its Limited Assurance level evaluation of the Report in accordance with the Apex’s standard procedures and guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability Reports and International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance reports dated on or after Dec. 15, 2015), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board and against the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework as defined in the GRI Standards Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The assurance practitioners selected for this engagement were qualified to perform the services and were impartial and independent from the management systems and reports being audited. 
On the basis of our methodology and the activities 
described above, Apex has found no evidence that: the Subject Matter included in the Report has not been properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria; and the report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards including appropriate consideration of the Reporting Principles, necessary general disclosures, management approaches and topic-specific GRI standards to meet the in accordance-core requirements of the GRI Standards. It is Apex’s opinion that: Ecolab has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of relevant information; and Ecolab’s executive management supports the development of processes for the embedding of sustainable management concepts and practices in the company.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE  STATEMENT 
To:  The Stakeholders of Ecolab, Inc.  
Introduction and objectives of work 
Apex Companies , LLC (Apex)  has been engaged by Ecolab , Inc. (Ecolab) to provide limited 
assurance of its 2020 Corporate Responsib ility GRI Report .  This assurance statement 
applies to the Subject Ma tter included within the scope of work described below .   
This information and its presentation in the  2020 Corporate R esponsibility GRI Report  (‘the 
Report’) are the sole res ponsibility of the  management of Ecolab .  Apex  was not involved in 
the drafting of the Report .  Our sole responsibility wa s to provide independent assurance  on 
the accuracy  of the Subject Matter .  This is the 5th year in whi ch we ha ve provide d assu rance  
over Ecolab’s Corpor ate Responsibility  GRI Report .   
Scope of work  
The scope of our work w as limited to assurance over select data and information included in 
the 2020 Corporate Responsibility  GRI Report  (‘the Report’)  for the calendar year 20 20 period 
(the ‘Subject Matter ’). 
Repo rting Criteria  
The S ubject Matter  needs to be read and under stood together with the  Global Reporting 
Initiative (G RI) Standard s Core Option , as set out at https://ww w.globalreporting.org/ .  
Limita tions and Exclusions  
Exclud ed from the scope of our work is any assurance  of information relating to:  
•Activities outside the defined assurance  period;
•Positional statements (expressions  of opinion, belief, a im or future intention by
Ecolab ) and sta temen ts of fut ure commitment; and
•Any financial data previously audited by an external third party.
This limited assurance engagement relies on a ris k based selected sample of sustainability 
data and the associated limitations that this entails. This indep enden t statement should not be 
relied upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that may exis t. 
Responsibilities  
This preparation  and prese ntation of the Subject Matter  in the  Report are the sole 
responsibility of the management of Ecolab .   
Apex was not involved in the drafting of the Report  or of the Reporting Criteria. Our 
responsibilit ies were  to: 
•obtain limited  assurance a bout whether the S ubject Matter  has been prep ared in
accor dance with the Reporting Criteria;
•form an independent conclu sion based on the assurance procedures performed and
evidence obtained; and
•report our conclusions to th e stake holders  of Ecolab .
Assessment Standard s 
We performed our work in  accorda nce with  Apex ’s standard procedures and  guidelines  for 
external Assura nce of Su stainability Reports and  International Standard on Assurance 
Engageme nts (ISAE) 3000 Rev ised, Assurance Engagements O ther than Audits or Reviews 
of Historical Financial  Informa tion (effective for assurance reports dated on or after De c. 15, 
2015) , issued b y the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.  A materia lity 
threshold of ± 5-percent was set for the ass urance process.  
Summary of Work Performed  
As part of our independent verification, our work included : 
1.Assessing the appropriaten ess of th e Reporting Criteria for the S ubject Matter ;
2.Conducting i ntervi ews with relevant p ersonnel of Ecolab ;
3.Reviewing the data collection and consolidation processes used to compile  Subject
Matter , including assessing assumptions made, and the data scope and re porting
boundarie s;
4.Review ing documentary evidence provided  by Ecolab ;
5.Agreeing a selection of the S ubject Matter  to the corresponding source
documentation ;
6.Review ing Ecolab ’s systems for quantitative d ata aggregation and  analysis ; and
7.Assessing the discl osure and presentation of the S ubject Matter  to ensure
consistency with assured information .
Conclusion    
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above : 
•Nothing  has come to our attention to  indicate that the S ubject M atter has not bee n
properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria ;
and
•It is our opinion that Ecolab  has established appropriate system s for the collecti on,
aggregation and analysis of relevant information , and has implement ed underl ying
internal assurance practices that provide a reasonable degree of confidence that
such information is complete and accurate .
Evaluation against Global Reporting Init iative (GRI ) Standards  
Apex  undertook an evaluation of Ecolab ’s Report again st the GRI Stan dards  Core Option . 
This included cross check ing the GRI Content Index against the reference documents to 
provide an opinion on  if the report has been prepar ed in accordan ce – core/comprehensive  
with the GRI Standards  Core Option .   
Based on our work, it is our opinion t hat 2020 Corporate Responsibility GR I Report has been 
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards  including appropriate consideration of the  
Reporting Pri nciples, necessary  general disclosures, management approaches, and  topic-
specific GRI Standards to meet  the ‘in accordance – core requirements of GRI Standards ’. 
State ment of Independence, Integrity and Competence 
Apex  is an independent profe ssional ser vices company that specializes in Health, Safety, 
Social and Environment al management services including assurance with over 30 years  
history in providing these  services .  Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain hig h ethical 
standards among staff in their d ay-to-day business activities.  
No member of the assurance team has a busin ess relationship with Ecolab , its Directors or 
Managers  beyond that required of this assignment .  We have conducted this assurance  
indepe ndently, and there has been no conflict of inte rest.  
The assurance team  has extensiv e experience in conducting assu rance ove r environmental, 
social, eth ical and  health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years 
combined experience in  this field and an excellent understanding of Apex’s  standard 
methodology for the ver ification of greenhouse gas emi ssions  data and assurance of 
sustainability reports . The assurance  team has provided assurance of Ecolab ’s CSR Report 
since 201 5, and it s gre enhouse gas emissions inventory since 201 0.  
Trevor  Donaghu, Lead Assuror  John Rohde, Technical Reviewer  
Program Manager  Principal  
Apex Companies, LLC   Apex Companies, LLC  
Pleasant Hill, CA  Lakewood, CO  
June 8, 2021 
VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
To: The Stake holder s of Ecolab, Inc. (Ecolab)  
APEX Companies LLC, (Apex ) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reported by Ecolab  Inc. (Ecolab)  for the per iod state d below. This Ve rification Opinion  Declaratio n applies 
to the related information included within the  scope of work described below.   
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of Ecolab . Ecolab  is respon sible for  the prep aration 
and f air pr esentation of  the GHG  statement  in accord ance with the criteria . Apex’ s sole responsibility was to provide 
independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG e missions reported, and on the underlying systems and 
processes used to coll ect, analyze and rev iew t he information. Apex is responsible for expressing  an opinion on the 
GHG statement  based on the verification.  Verification activi ties applied in a limited level of assurance verification  are 
less extensive in nature, tim ing and ext ent than in a  reasonable level of assurance verification.   
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:  
•Operational Control
•Worldwide
Types of GHGs : CO 2, N2O, CH 4, HFCs 
GHG Emiss ions Stat ement: 
•Scope  1: 282,843 metric tons of  CO 2 equivalent
•Scop e 2 (Location -Based) : 144,624  metric tons of CO 2 equivalent
•Scope 2 (Market -Based): 57,161  metric tons of CO 2 equivalent
•Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market  Based: 340,004  metric tons of CO2 equivalent
•Year on Year Change Total  S1/S2 (201 9-2020)*:  ↓142,779 metric tons of CO2 equivalent
•Scope 3 :
Business Travel: 13,877  metric tons of CO 2 equivalent
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Sc ope 2 GHG emiss ions statement  were histor ical in nature  
and were in so me cases est imated rathe r than hist orical i n nature . 
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement  were in some cases estimated rather 
than historical in nature . 
* 2019 emissions revised due to divest iture post 2019 -reporting year verification .
Period covered by GH G emissions  verification : 
•January 1, 2020 to De cemb er 31, 2020
Criter ia again st which v erificat ion conducted: 
•World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and  Reporting St anda rd (Scope 1 and  2)
•WRI/WBCSD  Green house Ga s Protocol Corpor ate Val ue Chain (S cope 3) Accounting and Reporting
Standard (Scope 3)Reference Standard : 
•ISO 14064 -3 Second Edition 2019 -04: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: S pecification wi th guidance for the
valida tion and verification of greenhouse g as state ment s
Level of Assurance  and Qualifications : 
•Limited
•This verification used a materiality threshold of 5% for aggregate errors in sampled data  for each of the
above indic ators
GHG Verificatio n Methodology :  
Evidence -gathering procedures included but were not limited  to: 
•Interviews with relevant pers onnel of  Ecolab and their consultant ;
•Review  of documentary evid ence produced by Ecolab ;
•Revie w of Ecolab  data and information systems and metho dology for co llection, aggregation, analysis and
review of inform ation used t o determ ine GHG emi ssions ; and
•Audit of s ample of data  used by Ecolab  to determine GHG emissions.
Assurance  Opinion:  
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evi dence that th e GHG emissions stateme nt shown 
above:  
•is not mate rially correc t and is not a fair representation  of the GHG  emission s data and information; and
•has not been  prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and
Repor ting Standard  (Scope 1 and 2 ), and W RI/WBCSD Green house Gas Protocol Corpora te Value Chain
Acco unting and Rep orting S tandard (Sco pe 3).
It is our opinion that Ecolab  has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of 
quantitative data  for determination of the se GHG emissions for t he stated period and bou ndaries. Statement of in depende nce, i mpartiality and competence  
Apex  is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Enviro nmental 
manag ement services including as surance with over 30 years history in  providin g these  services.  
No me mber of  the v erification team has a business relationship with Ecolab , its Directors or Managers beyond that 
required of this assignment.  W e cond ucted this ve rification independen tly and to our knowled ge there ha s been no 
conflict of interest.  
Apex has im plement ed a C ode of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their 
day-to-day business activities.  
The v erific ation team ha s extensive experienc e in conducting assura nce over environmenta l, social, ethical an d 
health and  safety  information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an 
excellent understanding of Apex’s  standard methodology f or the verification o f greenhouse gas emiss ions data.  
Attestat ion: 
Trevor Donag hu, Lead Verif ier David Reilly , Technical Revi ewer  
Program Manager  Principal Consultant  
APEX Companies, LLC        APEX Companies, LLC  
May 2 8, 2021  
This verification sta tement, including th e opinion expressed h erein, is provid ed to Ecolab  and is  solely f or the benefit of Ecolab  in 
accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement by you to CDP  in order to satisfy the terms  
of CDP disclosure r equirements but withou t accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability  on our part to CDP or to any other 
party who may  have access to this statement.  
VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION  
WATER WITHDRAWAL AND REPLENISHMENT  
To: Ecolab, Inc. (Ecolab)  
APEX Companies LLC, (Apex ) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the water withdrawal and 
replenishment reported by Ecolab  Inc. (Ecolab)  for th e period stated be low. This Ve rification Opinion  Declaration  
applies t o the related information included within the  scope of work described below.   
The determination of the water withdrawal and water replenishment is the sole responsibility of Ecolab . Apex’s sole 
responsibility was to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the water withdrawal and replenishment 
reported, and on the underlying systems and processes used to coll ect, analyze and rev iew the information. Apex is 
responsible for expr essing  an opinion on the water withdrawal and rep lenishment based on the verification.  
Verification activi ties applied in a limited level of assurance verification  are less extensive in nature, tim ing and ext ent 
than in a  reasonable lev el of assurance veri fication.   
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:  
•Operational Control
•Worldwide
Data Verified : 
•Water Withdrawal:  6.6 million cubi c meters
•Year on Year Change (20 19-2020)*: ↓ 900 thousand  cubic meters
•Total Water Re plenishment Projects: 447 thousand cubic meters
Data and information supporting the water withdrawal asse rtion were historical in nature. Some supporting 
information was estimated rather than historical .  
* 2019 water withdrawal revised due to divest iture post 2019 -reporting year verification .
Period covered by the verification : 
•January 1, 2020 to De cember 31, 2020
Criter ia against which verification  conducted: 
•CDP  Guidance for Companies, for Corporate Reporting on Water on Behalf of Investors and Supply Chain
Members (Water  Withdrawal)
Reference Standard : 
•Apex’s standard procedures and  guidelines  for external Assurance of Sustainability Re ports and
Internationa l Standard on Assu rance Engagem ents (ISAE) 3000 Rev ised, Assurance Engagements O ther
than Audits or Reviews of Hist orical Financ ial Information (eff ective for assurance reports da ted on or after
Dec. 15, 2015) , issued by the Internati onal Auditing and Assu rance Standards Bo ard.
Level of Assurance  and Qualifications : 
•Limited
•This verificatio n used a materiality thresho ld of 5% for aggregate errors in sampled data  for each of the
above indic atorsVerification Methodol ogy:  
Evidence -gathering procedures included but were not limited to:  
•Interviews with relevant personnel of Ecolab  and their consultant ;
•Review  of docume ntary evid ence  produced by Ecolab ;
•Revie w of Ecolab  data and inf ormation system s and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and
review of inform ation used to determ ine water withdrawal  and repl enishment ; and
•Audit of sample of data  used by Ecolab to determin e water withdrawal  and replenishment .
Verification  Opinion:  
Based o n the process and procedur es conduc ted, there is no evidence that the water withdrawal and replenishment 
assertion shown above:  
•is not mate rially correc t and is not a fair re presentation of  the water withdrawal and replenishment data and
information; and
•has not been prepared in accordance with the CDP Project Guidance for Companies, for Corporate
Reporting on Water on Behalf of Investors and Supply Chain Members .
It is our opi nion that Ecolab has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggreg ation and analysis of 
quantitative data for determination of water withdrawal  and replenishment for the stated period and boundaries.  
Statement of independence, impartiality and  competence  
Apex is an independent professional services co mpany that specializes  in Health, Safe ty, Social and Enviro nmental 
management services including as surance with over 30 years history in providin g these  services.   
No member of the verification tea m has a busine ss relationship with Ecolab , its Directors or  Managers beyond that 
required of this  assignment.  W e conducted this ver ification independen tly and to our knowled ge there ha s been no 
conflict of interest.  
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics a cross the busi ness to maintain high ethical standards among  staff in their 
day-to-day business ac tivities.  
The v erification team has  extensive experienc e in conducting assura nce over environmental, social, ethical and 
health and safety information, systems  and processes , has over 20 years combined experience in th is field and an 
excell ent understandin g of Apex’s  standard methodology fo r the verification o f greenhouse gas emiss ions data.  
Attestation: 
Trevor Do naghu , Lead Verifier  David Reilly , Techni cal Revi ewer  
Program Manager  Principal Consultant  
APEX Companies, LLC  APEX Compa nies, LLC  
May 2 8, 202 1 
This verification sta tement, including th e opinion expressed he rein, is provided to Ecolab  and is  solely for the benefi t of Ecolab  in 
accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the rel ease of this stat ement by you to CDP  in order to satisfy the terms  
of CDP disclosure r equirements but withou t accepting or assuming any resp onsibility or liability on our part to CDP or to a ny other 
party who may  have access to this statement.  
