Corporate Sustainability 2014Solving Global Challenges
SUSTAINABLY
FROM ELEMENTS TO EVERYDAY
RAW MATERIALS & INGREDIENT PROCESSINGRETAIL & SERVICES
PRODUCTION & MANUFACTURING2     ECOLAB     |     TABLE OF CONTENTSINTRODUCTION
Chairman’s Message    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .      4
Company Overview  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     6
OUR APPROACH    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     7
Building Sustainable Impact    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     8
Delivering Exponential Value  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     9
Launching Innovative Solutions .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   10
OUR PARTNERSHIPS    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    11
FROM ELEMENTS TO EVERYDAYRaw Materials & Ingredient Processing
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    12
Production & Manufacturing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   15
Retail & Services  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   18
Innovations   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   22
Making the World Cleaner, Safer & Healthier    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    24
OUR STEWARDSHIP  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
Committed to Water Stewardship   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   28
Changing the Way Water is Valued .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   30
OUR PERFORMANCE .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   32
Environmental Performance   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   33
Product Responsibility .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   35
Financial Performance .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   37
Culture of Safety  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   39
Community Impact   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   41
ABOUT OUR REPORT    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   47 Table of 
   CONTENTS
Our 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report and complete GRI Index can be found at: ecolab.com/sustainability
TABLE OF CONTENTS     |     ECOLAB     3Every Friday I read a summary of the week’s news 
relating to water scarcity and its impact on people, industries and economies all over the world. In less than 20 years, the world will need about 40 percent more water than today’s accessible supply to maintain food production, generate electricity and provide clean drinking water. From California to Brazil to China, it’s very clear that water availability has become a major concern. 
At the same time, I also see a growing resolve to 
transform the way business operates. Our customers are intensely focused on reducing their use of water and other precious natural resources, and all around the world, Ecolab associates are working hard to help them achieve their goals. 
The need for action is urgent—and Ecolab has the 
knowledge and the capabilities to drive positive action. We are on the ground at more than one million customer locations globally, applying our innovative technology, our precise data capabilities and our unmatched service to help our customers do more with less. 
Our 1,600 research, development and engineering 
associates are continuously developing new products and services to further our ability to help our customers, introducing more than 85 new innovative solutions in 2014, our largest pipeline ever. We assess every product we design against our sustainability criteria and we are focused on delivering solutions that use less water and less energy while generating less waste. 
“ The need for action 
is urgent—and 
Ecolab has the 
knowledge and the capabilites to drive 
positive action.
”  The breadth of our business uniquely positions us to 
help mitigate risks and reduce environmental impacts across the entire value chain, from the processing of raw materials and ingredients, to production and manufacturing, to the delivery of goods and services. From foundational elements to everyday products and experiences, we remain focused on providing and protecting what is vital: clean water, safe food, abundant energy and healthy environments. A Letter from the  
 CHAIRMAN AND CEO
Reflections on our Sustainability Impact 
4     ECOLAB     |     CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGEIn 2014, we strengthened our commitment to do 
more as a company to minimize our impact on the environment, setting aggressive new goals to reduce water, energy, effluent and waste across our global operations. Holding our company to higher standards, we deployed a global initiative to improve operational efficiency and performance so that we can make significant strides toward our sustainability goals in 2015.  
Last year we also launched Solutions for Life, our 
global giving program. Solutions for Life enhances our mission to conserve water and improve hygiene around the world through collaborations with NGOs, global philanthropy and employee volunteerism.  It’s another way we can leverage our resources and expertise to conserve water where we live and work.
Ultimately it is the ability of our associates to 
solve problems, their commitment to serving our customers and their belief in our purpose that  
makes Ecolab a powerful force for positive change. Our company was built on our dedication to finding the answers to complex problems. Today, we have even more important problems to solve for our customers. And our people are showing every day that they are up to the challenge. We are proud of the work we do to help ensure a future where businesses, the environment and society can thrive.
Sincerely,
Douglas M. Baker, Jr.
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE     |     ECOLAB     5 2014  Company  
 OVERVIEW
Awards & Recognitions
$14.3 billion net salesAssociates 47,000
Sales & Service Associates 25,000Research, Development & Engineering 
(RD&E) Associates 1,600Countries 170+Customer Locations 1 million+
Global Research Centers11Manufacturing Centers135 8Regional Technical Centers
6    ECOLAB     |     COMPANY OVERVIEWCountries
 OUR APPROACH
 Technology + People =
SOLVING GLOBAL CHALLENGES, 
SUSTAINABLY Building Sustainable
 IMPACT
Never has the confluence of business and the 
environment been more significant than it is today. 
Global demographic trends—population growth,  
a growing middle class and urbanization—are  placing unprecedented pressure on water and energy.
Increased demand for goods and services presents 
significant opportunities for businesses across industries. Meeting that demand, while ensuring  
the long-term vitality of businesses, communities and the environment, creates challenges.
Our customers can count on us to tackle these 
complex problems, ensuring their reputation is protected as their business grows. All around the world, we strive to deliver the best results at the lowest total cost, while reducing waste and energy and water use. Through unparalleled service, industry-leading innovation and real-time information.
We are helping  
our customers do 
more with less.
8    ECOLAB     |     OUR APPROACHWe measure and track the impact of our solutions 
and quantify customers’ return on investment, helping them track operational improvements and progress across a range of performance goals.
Our proprietary eROI
SM approach credibly  
documents operational, economic and resource 
savings across a comprehensive set of sustainability categories. By starting with what matters most to our customers—performance—and linking performance outcomes to sustainability metrics and cost savings, we quantify the triple-bottom-line benefits of our sustainable solutions.  Delivering Exponential
 V ALUE
The combined benefits of improved performance,  
operational efficiency and sustainable impact.
SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS
OUR APPROACH     |     ECOLAB     9Launching Innovative
SOLUTIONS
Innovative with Intention. 
Every Ecolab solution is developed with  
specific intention:
•  Informed by customer needs
•  Developed to solve particular challenges
•   D esigned to conserve resources and help  
protect the environment 
We take a comprehensive look at the environmental, 
economic and social impacts of our product and service offerings and consider how each solution increases efficiency, minimizes the use of natural resources and improves safety—from sourcing to manufacturing, to use and disposal.From concentrated formulations and antimicrobial solutions to advanced monitoring and innovative packaging and dispensing methods, Ecolab leads the industry in developing new, effective solutions that help our customers drive operational efficiency, product quality, safety and compliance while minimizing environmental impact. 
We leverage our capabilities, expertise and 
technology throughout our enterprise. By applying learnings and technologies from one industry to another, we are meeting more customers’ needs for resource-saving solutions.
More than 6,800 Patents1,600 Research, Development and Engineering 
associates throughout the world 
19 innovation and technical support facilities$197 Million in Research, Development  
and Engineering expenditures
6th consecutive year double-digit 
innovation pipeline growth85+ new product introductions  
(more new products than ever before) 2014 innovation 
pipeline 
forecasted to 
deliver  
$1 BILLION IN 
NEW REVENUE 
IN FIVE YEARS
10    ECOLAB     |     OUR APPROACHDELIVERING EXPONENTIAL VALUE ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN
Ecolab is Everywhere it Matters. Our unique combination of expertise and innovative solutions makes the world cleaner, safer 
and healthier while protecting people and vital resources across the entire value chain. From the raw materials that are the 
building blocks of nearly every product, to production and manufacturing, to retail and service environments where products meet people, Ecolab is behind the scenes working with our customers to improve performance, meet increasing demand and 
reduce environmental impact.  FROM ELEMENTS  TO EVERYDAY OUR PARTNERSHIPS
OUR PARTNERSHIPS     |     ECOLAB    11RAW MATERIALS & INGREDIENT PROCESSING
42% to 15%
reduction of water 
content in sludge2.2 billion gallons of water saved
reduction of energy use6.2 million kWhAs the world’s largest steel mill group, ArcelorMittal is committed to protecting the environment, improving 
operational sustainability and delivering sustainable products to its customers. In 2014, ArcelorMittal extended its partnership with Ecolab to optimize efficiency of its Galati Steel Mill in Romania. Ecolab implemented 3D TRASAR™ Technology in one of Galati’s blast furnace open cooling systems, installed cooling tower level control to allow for improved blast furnace water balance, switched the make-up water source from demineralized water to soft water and optimized the recirculation pumps to create a more sustainable and profitable operation. 
Results achieved in one year:
1,226 metric tons
of CO2e  avoided$1.42 million
total savingsEssential elements make up the foundation of every product we consume and interact with on a daily basis. Ecolab solutions help 
reduce water and energy use and minimize the environmental impact of some of the most critical processes required to produce 
these core elements. From the mining of minerals such as copper and gold to abstraction of oil and gas to processing raw materials 
ranging from steel to sugar cane, we partner with customers to deliver the ingredients that form the basis of all else.FROM ELEMENTS TO EVERYDAY
12    ECOLAB     |     OUR PARTNERSHIPS$1.42 million
of water savings 71 million gallons
SHA STEEL 
Faced with rising electricity costs and increased demand, Chinese steel producer Sha Steel sought to reduce 
costs and save water and energy. Ecolab employed a suite of solutions, including our 3D TRASAR™ Technology Scale Index to monitor, control and optimize Sha Steel’s critical process cooling system efficiency.
of water saved37 million gallons 8.1 million kWh
of electricity saved
Saved $1.1 million55,950 metric tons
of CO 2e avoidedResults achieved in one year:CSN is a large Brazilian steel group that prioritizes the rational use of natural resources, including proper management of water. To achieve greater environmental and financial results, CSN partnered with Ecolab to address recurring premature burning on hot blast valves from one of its blast furnaces. Leveraging our 3D TRASAR™ Technology program and Tagged High Stress Polymer technology, CSN reduced fouling and scale in its critical process cooling.
$900,000 total savings
(2014 savings)
OUR PARTNERSHIPS     |     ECOLAB    13GAS-TO-LIQUIDS REFINERY
For the past three years, Ecolab has partnered with a major gas-to-liquids refinery in South Africa to 
mitigate its cooling water management challenges. The refinery was experiencing shutdowns due to variable cooling water quality in the system. Ecolab employed 3D TRASAR™ Technology for Cooling Water, our 24/7 System Assurance Center and formal audits to manage the refinery’s corrosion, microbial activity and water consumption challenges, resulting in a 560 percent return on investment. 
of water saved over 
a 3-year period184 million  
gallons7 Years
of increased asset lifespan of 
critical equipment through corrosion control Avoided unplanned  
shut downs
Saved  $1.5 million
 (over 12 months)
14    ECOLAB     |     OUR PARTNERSHIPSEcolab conducted a comprehensive audit called a 
Total Plant Assessment (TPA) for Kraft’s Davenport, 
Iowa, site, which makes Oscar Mayer products. The TPA provided a holistic, end-to-end review of the facility’s water use, energy use and waste generation from its manufactures processes. By leveraging Ecolab’s unique combination of technical expertise and innovative solutions, the audit also identified potential ways to improve results across process and utility applications. The TPA provided Kraft with solutions to reduce water and energy use at the facility, as well as best practices that can be applied to other operations with similar systems to expand progress in sustainability and productivity.Kraft Foods Group, Inc. partnered with Ecolab to identify opportunities to 
help the company meet its corporate sustainability goals to reduce water and 
energy while also reducing total operating costs. 
…our Davenport facility is expected to reduce its total water 
use by more than five percent, 
saving the company $200,000 in water and energy costs. This 
is truly a partnership approach 
with a low investment cost and 
the process is paying off.“
”– Jeff Jones  
Associate Director Safety & Environment, Kraft Foods  PRODUCTION & MANUFACTURING
The processes necessary to manufacture products are complex and resource-intensive. Whether building a car, bottling beverages, 
processing and packaging food, making paper, developing personal care products or microchips, companies across industries 
choose Ecolab for solutions that help them improve overall performance, enhance operational efficiency, reduce use of water and 
energy and minimize waste.FROM ELEMENTS TO EVERYDAY
OUR PARTNERSHIPS     |     ECOLAB    15GNP Company, a leading poultry company, strives to achieve operational excellence through eco-efficiency, 
understanding that sustainable solutions make good business sense and create shared value for the company, customers and local communities. Ecolab’s innovative Inspexx™ Inside Outside Bird Washer (IOBW) Water Recycling System (WRS) helped the company make meaningful progress toward its goal of reducing the amount of water required to process one bird at its plant in Cold Spring, Minnesota, from a 6.5 gallon baseline (2011) to four gallons by 2017. 
Ecolab’s United States Department of Agriculture-approved control and filtering system safely recirculates 
and treats water from the plant’s IOBW lines using specially formulated antimicrobial solutions. The recycled water can be reused in the IOBW system four to five times without compromising cleanliness. 
ELIMINATED THE NEED FOR A $500,000 INVESTMENT IN ADDITIONAL WATER TREATMENT CAPACITYin water savings per bird1.36 gallons $190,600
in water costs saved20%
increase in production capacity (28 more birds per minute) in water savings68 million  
gallonsUnilever collaborates with Ecolab to drive a step 
change in its global water use through technology and service. Installation of more than 50 3D TRASAR™ Technology units worldwide will help Unilever factories monitor and control water use across cooling water, boilers, membranes and dissolved air flotation (DAF) unit operations, with projected savings of more than 150,000 cubic meters of water year-over-year. 
– Neal Saiz  
Safety, Health & Environment Director, Unilever North AmericaAt our Henderson, Nevada, plant that produces 
Breyer’s ice cream, we have seen a 39 percent 
decrease in water use in three of our cooling towers.  
As a result, our facility won a Water Hero Award by the Water Conservation Coalition. We have made 
significant reductions to the total volume of water 
extracted for use since 1995 and partners like Ecolab help us deliver even more water savings.“
”
(2014 savings)
16    ECOLAB     |     OUR PARTNERSHIPSMengniu, a dairy company in China, aims to reduce 
water consumption by 30–50 percent in five years. By implementing Ecolab’s innovative, customized  Clean-in-Place (CIP) solution and water management technology, Mengniu optimized its cleaning, sanitation and utility operations. These processes reduced water and energy consumption, decreased chemistry use and increased uptime. The combined solution accelerated Mengniu’s progress toward its sustainability goals without compromising food safety.
GLOBAL AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURER
A global automotive manufacturer committed to improving overall sustainability performance partnered with Ecolab to reduce waste and eliminate the use of its melamine formaldehyde paint detackification program at manufacturing plants in South Africa and India. The company implemented Ecolab’s APEX™ Paint Detackification program, a formaldehyde-free detackifier, which delivered superior operational performance, reduced waste disposal, improved employee safety and reduced operational costs compared to conventional programs.
SOUTH AFRICA PLANT
40%reduction in required cleaning along  
with maintenance activitiesINDIA PLANT
$41,318 savings 88%
reduction in  bird-mesh cleaning
BOTH PLANTS HAD AN 80% REDUCTION IN SLUDGE DISPOSAL211,338 gallons  
(800 cubic meters)
reduction in water consumptionSAVINGS ACHIEVED AT ONE MENGNIU PLANT
24%
reduction in  water use 30–50%
reduction in water consumption over five years1,100 metric tons
of CO 2e avoided
$93,330 savings
(2014 savings)(2014 savings)(2014 savings)
OUR PARTNERSHIPS     |     ECOLAB    17RETAIL & SERVICES
reduction in water consumption65 million gallons 946k therms
reduction in energy consumption Guided by their Better Tomorrow Plan, Sodexo is 
committed to protecting the environment and supporting local communities, improving quality of life for the 75 million customers they serve each day. In 2014, Sodexo teamed with Ecolab to make strides towards its commitments to reduce carbon and water intensity and waste from its own operations and client locations. Through the use of Ecolab’s Apex™ Warewashing, Solid Power™ XL Warewash, Wash ‘n Walk™ Floor Cleaner and Oasis Pro™ Housekeeping solutions as well as utility solutions including 3D TRASAR™ Technology for Cooling and Boiler applications, Sodexo’s United States operations were able to achieve: Building valued partnerships 
with sustainable suppliers 
such as Ecolab is instrumental 
in achieving progress towards 
our commitment to the 
environment. “
”– Deborah Hecker   
Vice President Sustainability and Corporate 
Social Responsibility, Sodexo North America 
of CO 2e avoided15,400 metric tons
4.5 million pounds of waste eliminatedEcolab is behind the scenes of the most prominent places where people eat, sleep, work, play and heal. Restaurants, hotels, 
hospitals, education institutions, office buildings, shopping centers, grocery stores and the many other retail and services 
offerings we depend on and enjoy rely on Ecolab to help them deliver clean, safe and healthy experiences more sustainably.FROM ELEMENTS TO EVERYDAY
(2014 savings)
18    ECOLAB     |     OUR PARTNERSHIPSOne of the leading textile services operators in Europe, Berendsen is committed 
to reducing consumption and minimizing environmental impact. 
Since 2009, Berendsen has partnered with Ecolab to ensure consistent processes and solutions to deliver 
quality washed textiles, while reducing water and energy use and lowering costs across 100 commercial laundries throughout Europe. By measuring and sharing data on resource consumption, operational 
performance and process flows, Ecolab designed customized, standardized solutions for implementation across Berendsen’s unique regional infrastructure. 
The comprehensive approach reduced wash 
temperature from 80°C to 60°C, minimizing overall energy consumption.  The solution featured 
innovative chemistry Triplex Bioactive™, ultra-concentrated product Triplex Emulsion™ and the harmonization of best-in-class practices across all facilities, including implementation of Aquaheater™, Aquamiser™ and Aquacycler™ equipment. This end-to-end solution filtrates and reuses process water, provides a lower cost and more energy-efficient way to heat water to the required wash temperature and recaptures excess heat that would normally be lost from dryers and ironers.“ Our goal is to have the  
smallest CO2 footprint per 
kilogram of washed textile.”
Reduced overall costs by $13.5 millionreduction in water consumption 
per kg of textile washed 22%reduction in gas consumption per kg of textile washed 13%reduction in water costs  19%
(from 2009–2013)
OUR PARTNERSHIPS     |     ECOLAB    19Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts’ Far Eastern Plaza 
Hotel in Tainan, Taiwan, is the first internationally affiliated deluxe hotel in the country outside Taipei that offers an ideal base for both business and leisure travelers. Guest satisfaction, which depends on a clean, safe, healthy and sustainable operation, is critical to the property’s success. 
Shangri-La partnered with Ecolab to optimize 
the hotel’s laundry program, implementing our Aquanomic™ Laundry Program, comprehensive  liquid laundry products (phosphorus, APE and  NTA-free), and ongoing on-site training and service. The Aquanomic (Ensure) Laundry Program delivers thermal energy savings of up to 25 percent by performing at 40°C and reduces water use  
by eliminating a flush-and-rinse step while still delivering clean, white and soft results. 
By assessing additional opportunities for energy and 
water savings through our “total cost-of-clean tool”, the hotel is able to analyze its full laundry process and optimize formulation over time to ensure the operation is running efficiently, maximizing the longevity of towels and linens and reducing environmental impact.
6,400k therms / 15,839 kWh
reduction in energy use 
company savings in water  
and energy costs $4,000reduction in water use 363,236 gallons
Improved life of  towels and linens
(annual savings)
20    ECOLAB     |     OUR PARTNERSHIPSMEDICAL CENTER
A 700-bed medical center in the United States that performs more than 24,000 surgeries per year partnered 
with Ecolab to improve the efficiency of its sterile processing department, where surgical instruments are cleaned and sterilized. The medical center was seeking opportunities to reduce waste, increase throughput and improve staff safety without compromising patient safety. The hospital implemented a set of Ecolab’s OptiPro™ instrument reprocessing solutions to shift its manual, automated and cart-washing processes from concentrated liquid chemistry to solid chemistries. Delivered in measured doses of ready-to-use product, the OptiPro™ solutions improved cleaning consistency, enhanced results and optimized wash cycles.  
204,512 kBTUs
energy savings plastic waste avoided460 pounds
plastic waste eliminated809 pounds
492,000 gallons of water savedtotal savings $10,474Results achieved in one year:
OUR PARTNERSHIPS     |     ECOLAB    21FROM ELEMENTS TO EVERYDAY
INNOVATIONS
Raw Materials & Ingredient Processing
RenewIQ™
A comprehensive oilfield water management program that effectively cleans contaminants across a wide range of water applications. From fracturing water pretreatment and flowback reuse to impoundment and wellbore treatments, saltwater disposal wells and waterfloods, RenewIQ improves water quality without interfering with the activity of other oil and gas chemicals. Built on an oxidation technology platform, this solution is an effective, faster-acting alternative to traditional nonoxidizing chemistries resulting in residuals. 
EC6697A Evaporator Cleaning Program
A proprietary cleaning program for oil sands evaporators that creates feed water for once-through steam generators. It is an alternative to traditional acid solutions, providing sustained cleanliness and reducing downtime and asset damage at one-third the cost of a mechanical cleaning process.EC2630A Emulsion BreakerA new class of primary emulsion breaker for oil refinery desalter trains that features biodegradable, non-flammable chemistry with minimal naphthalene content. The solution improves dehydration; results in higher solids removal; lowers oil, grease and COD levels in the effluent going to the waste water treatment plant; and exceeds European Union regulations requirements while performing as well or better than traditional emulsion breakers. 
Production & Manufacturing
3D TRASAR™ Water Saver TechnologyTargeting food and beverage processors and manufacturers,  3D TRASAR™ Water Saver Technology can reduce cooling tower blowdown up to 80 percent, saving millions of gallons of water annually. The technology maintains chiller system efficiency, extends asset life, reduces maintenance costs and chemical footprint and enhances employee safety through the elimination of acid traditionally used to keep the system clean.SuperWash A combination of innovative chemistry, world-renowned technical expertise and PARETO™ Mixing Technology provides on-site, custom-designed solutions that can increase pulp production and reduce costs for the paper industry. SuperWash improves operational efficiency by up to 20 percent, reduces chemical use  by up to 30 percent, improves pulp quality and reduces energy  use by up to 25 percent. Our unwavering commitment to innovation brings new depth to our impact across the value chain each year. In 2014, we launched 
new solutions that further enhanced our ability to help customers achieve better results at a time when the desire and need to do 
more with less has never been more prominent.
22    ECOLAB     |     OUR PARTNERSHIPSRetail & Services 
3D TRASAR™ Solid Cooling Water Program 
3D TRASAR™ Technology leverages solids technology and dispensing equipment to deliver a safe, simple and sustainable cooling water solution to facility managers. The result is water savings of up to 15 percent and reduced energy use while extending asset life and reducing total cost of operations. The use of solid chemistry reduces plastic waste by 94 percent when compared to traditional 5-gallon pails.
Syncra™ 
An automated, touch-free, water-and-soap delivery system for hand hygiene that follows a strict, yet adjustable, three-step process to ensure increased employee compliance, standardized hand-washing procedures and consistent results. This first-of-its-kind hand hygiene faucet uses 50 percent less water than traditional hand washing.
Nexa™ Hand Hygiene Dispenser and Concentrates 
A new hand hygiene solution featuring a dispensing platform that makes it easier to promote good hand-washing practices and help reduce the spread of infectious diseases in healthcare, foodservice, hospitality, long-term care and commercial facilities. The dispenser is efficient, safe, simple and sustainable with a small storage footprint and improved battery life, antimicrobial protection on the push bar and a locking option. The hand hygiene solution includes a concentrated product (not available in healthcare), featuring color-coded badges and modular packing. It is diluted on-site in refillable bottles, offering a sealed system and in-chemistry preservatives helping to ensure safe and effective application time after time. Use of recyclable bottles reduces waste by up to 90 percent while reducing shipping costs and frequency. 
Equi-Soft™ Foam 
A mild antimicrobial hand soap for the healthcare environment that uses benzalkonium chloride as the active ingredient to deliver the efficacy of a medicated soap with the mildness of the market-leading non-medicated soap. This triclosan-free, paraben-free and dye-free formula kills standard healthcare micro-organisms as well as MDR Acinetobacter, VRE, CRE and multiple strains of MRSA, offering an alternative for diverse antimicrobial hand soap needs. It is compatible with chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG) products and is available in multiple dispensing options, including the Nexa platform.OptiPro™ Solid Rinse Agent 
Developed for accelerated, spot-free drying for hospital instrument 
reprocessing, this solution is based on a unique blend of surfactants 
and sequestering agents. The lightweight, phosphate-free solid 
chemistry improves wash cycle time, increasing reprocessing 
throughput while minimizing packaging waste and reducing water 
and energy use. It is safe to use on all types of metals and the block 
is color- and shape-coded to avoid chemical dispensing errors, 
making it safer for workers.
Restora™  
A laundry program for the healthcare industry that utilizes a unique 
formula to remove adhesives from linen during washing, eliminating 
the need for multiple rewashes. This extends linen life, reduces 
replacement costs, and cuts utilities and labor. Tests have shown 
that the program can help healthcare facilities reclaim up to  
99 percent of adhesive-stained linen.  
Luminate™  
Specifically formulated for the laundry market serving the food 
and beverage industry, this unique three-part system—Luminate™ 
Detergent, Luminate™ Booster, and Luminate™ Alkali—minimizes 
product waste by allowing adjustments of each element according 
to unique cleaning needs. Luminate gets linens clean on the first 
pass, preventing excess energy, water and labor costs. The result 
is superior whiteness, brightness and freshness with organic-soil 
removal, at levels never before seen with NPE-free products.3D TRASAR™ Technology for Clean-In-Place (CIP)
Designed for the food and beverage processing industry, this 
technology utilizes advanced sensors to monitor traced chemistry 
in CIP systems and provide more in-depth visibility to operational 
and food safety issues. The technology detects CIP system variances 
that can inform corrective actions to improve operational efficiency 
and enhance productivity while reducing water and energy use 
by minimizing wash times and helping identify opportunities to 
minimize the thermal energy necessary in CIP processes. 
DryExx™ PRO
A water-efficient versatile conveyor lubricant for beverage  
operators that provides excellent lubrication in both wet and  
dry modes to enhance the mobility of PET and aluminum  
packages, promote line cleanliness and improve efficiency  
while enabling increased conveyor speeds and more throughput. 
In dry mode, DryExx™ PRO can eliminate water consumption for 
conveyor lubrication.Purate™
Acquired an on-site chlorine dioxide (ClO
2) generation technology 
that can meet biocidal performance needs and help protect life in 
industrial markets. Elimination of bleach minimizes overall chemical handling, reduces worker exposure, decreases permit issues associated with byproducts such as THMs (trihalomethanes) and  
AOX (adsorbable organic halogen) and has shown to achieve microbial control with less chemical use, resulting in cleaner systems and increased uptime.
OUR PARTNERSHIPS     |     ECOLAB    23MAKING THE WORLD CLEANER, SAFER & HEALTHIER
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS THAT PROVIDE & PROTECT WHAT IS VITAL 
Through our partnerships with customers, we tackle complex water challenges, keep food supplies safe, maximize the potential of 
energy and support clean, safe and healthy environments. Together, we deploy unlimited resourcefulness to help businesses thrive  
and ensure the availability of the world’s most precious natural resources for future generations. 
This is how we deliver on our vision to provide and protect what is vital: clean water, safe food, abundant energy and  
healthy environments.FROM ELEMENTS TO EVERYDAY
24    ECOLAB     |     OUR PARTNERSHIPS330 billion 8 oz.  
glasses of milkIn 2014, we helped dairy operations safely 
and efficiently process115 billion 
gallons of waterIn 2014, we helped customers save more thanCLEAN WATER
As the global leader in water management and 
technology, we have a unique ability to help address the complexities of today’s water challenges. Water  
is part of an integral process throughout the value  
chain. It’s used in cleaning and sanitizing,  
food processing, boiler and cooling water  
 treatment, effluent and wastewater treatment, and oil and gas extraction and processing. Across sectors and geographies, our industry-leading products, technologies and expertise—
reinforced by automation programs and precise data capabilities—help customers reduce, reuse, conserve and treat water in more sustainable ways.
While water management and efficiency is a priority 
across our company, our Water & Processing Services business, Nalco, provides specialized solutions for water treatment and management, process improvements and pollutant control for a wide range of industries. With a commitment to water stewardship, we optimize product quality and reduce operating costs for our customers while reducing their impact on the environment.
SAFE FOOD
Food safety is critical to public health and to the reputations of businesses that manufacture, sell 
or serve foods and beverages. We help ensure safe food through an integrated combination of effective cleaning and sanitizing products, programs and services that protect people from food safety hazards.  
The growing global population demands more food in more places. To meet the demand, the food industry must deliver more and longer-lasting food supplies. Food production depends on access to fresh water and energy sources, and water needs to be clean to keep food safe. Our solutions help food producers, food service and food retail operators minimize use of natural resources while helping to keep food and drinks safe.
OUR PARTNERSHIPS     |     ECOLAB    25100 offshore  
platforms In 2014, we helped customers sustainably 
manage water on more than
31 billion hands,  
146 billion plates, 
1.2 billion loads  of laundryIn 2014, we helped wash more thanABUNDANT ENERGY
Around the world, the demand for energy is growing—
and meeting the demand is becoming more challenging. 
Our global specialty product portfolio helps energy companies extract more energy with fewer resources. We also help companies conserve energy through our innovative programs and technologies that identify and treat process-related 
problems and minimize energy use.
Nalco Champion, our Energy Services business, 
provides industry’s most comprehensive, optimized  
and technically advanced solutions for process, production and water-treatment solutions to the global upstream and downstream petroleum and petrochemical industries. Our customized solutions allow energy producers to extract energy using less water, enable recycling of produced water, enable cost-effective desalination of seawater for use in energy production operations and help treat wastewater.
HEALTHY ENVIRONMENTS
Clean and safe environments are essential to the health of workers, guests and suppliers—and the 
reputations of businesses everywhere. Our innovative cleaning, laundry and warewashing solutions for restaurants, hotels, schools and commercial facilities help ensure the places we visit every day are clean, safe, healthy and comfortable. In healthcare 
facilities—where clean environments are critical—our solutions help reduce hospital-acquired infections (HAIs) and improve patient safety. 
Without compromising the customer experience, we 
take our solutions beyond performance outcomes to make healthy environments more sustainable. We help customers deliver exceptional guest and patient experiences while reducing costs, enhancing employee safety and enhance the sustainability of their cleaning, sanitation, facility care and foodservice processes. 
26    ECOLAB     |     OUR PARTNERSHIPS OUR STEWARDSHIP
 Commitment + Stewardship =
PRESERVING LIMITED RESOURCES  
WITH UNLIMITED RESOURCEFULNESSGLOBAL COMMITMENTS  
AND PARTNERSHIP
Through partnerships with leading global non-  
governmental organizations (NGOs), we strengthen 
our understanding and our ability to impact global challenges facing our business, customers and communities. We are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and the CEO Water Mandate,  
and an active member of the Corporate Eco Forum.  
Our partnerships the World Wildlife Fund and The  
Nature Conservancy help advance water conservation and stewardship initiatives in priority regions including China, Mexico and the United States. ENHANCING INDUSTRY PRACTICES
Through active participation in sustainability-related industry work groups, we share expertise and insights to influence standards, regulations and practices, and enhance sustainability leadership across industries. In 2014, we engaged with a broad range of industry groups, including the Food Marketing Institute, National Restaurant Association, Grocery Manufacturers Association, Consumer Specialty Products Association, AISE, American Cleaning Institute, Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable, Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council, Practice Greenhealth and World Travel and Tourism Council.Committed to Water
 STEWARDSHIP
We actively seek to improve the use of water resources within our own operations and within the watersheds in which we operate. 
Our commitment extends beyond our operations to partnerships with thought leaders and leading organizations that support 
advancement of responsible use of the world’s limited fresh water resources to the benefit of nature, communities and business.Collaborating to achieve more.
28     ECOLAB     |     OUR LEADERSHIPThe AWS Standard:  
Core Criteria (version 1.0)
Commit
• Leadership commitment
• Water stewardship policy
Gather & Understand
• Define scope
• Identify stakeholders
• Catchment water data
• Site water data• Indirect water use
• Shared water challenges
•  Understand and prioritize water  
risks and opportunities
Plan
• Legal compliance system
• Water stewardship plan
• Incident response plan
• Notify authorities of plans
Implement
• Comply with laws and rights
•  Maintain/improve: water balance,  
water quality, status of IWRAs,  
indirect water use
•  Participate in catchment governance
• Provide on-site WASH
 •  Raise concerns about shared  
water infrastructure
Evaluate
•  Evaluate performance,  
risks, benefits, incidents
• Consult stakeholders
•  Update stewardship and incident  
response plans
Communicate & Disclose
•  Disclose internal governance, water 
stewardship performance, efforts to 
address shared water challenges
• Drive transparency in compliance
• Increase water awarenessADVANCING GLOBAL  
WATER STEWARDSHIP
Ecolab is a founding partner 
of the Alliance for Water Stewardship’s (AWS) International Water Stewardship Standard, a globally consistent and locally adaptable framework to inform decisions and encourage collective action to promote sustainable freshwater use. In April 2014, Ecolab joined nearly 30 leading organizations from across industries to launch the Standard. 
In 2014, we initiated programs to 
implement the framework at our own facilities.  Our Taicang, China, plant, located in the Yangtze Taihu  basin, outside of Shanghai, has  
 been a pilot location for the Standard since 2013 and is  
one of the first facilities to  
seek certification under the  
AWS Standard. 
We expanded implementation  
to our Carson and City of 
Industry manufacturing plants in California, where extreme drought is impacting all water users. As a leading adopter of the Standard in this region, we partnered with AWS and the WWF to provide training to other local water users. We also collaborated with companies in the watershed to implement the Standard within their facilities and to identify ways to work together to further reduce our collective impacts.  
To learn more about the AWS Standard, visit 
www.allianceforwaterstewardship.org.
Water is very important to Ford Motor Company. In 2000, we 
set our first year-over-year reduction targets, but since then, we have moved beyond reducing the water footprint of our facilities to addressing water concerns in our supply chains and broader communities, particularly in arid regions. Ecolab has been a valuable partner in helping us reduce water use across our global manufacturing facilities and identifying water risks and opportunities to help move the business forward.
– John Viera 
Global Director of Sustainability and Vehicle Environmental Matters  
Ford Motor Company“
”
OUR LEADERSHIP     |     ECOLAB    29In November 2014, Ecolab, in partnership with Trucost, introduced the Water Risk Monetizer to reshape global 
understanding of the full value of water, particularly in water-scarce regions. Through firsthand experience working alongside businesses across industries and geographies, we identified a major obstacle preventing decision makers from advancing more meaningful water strategies: Water is significantly undervalued in much of the world, making it difficult to make fully informed decisions regarding operation locations or to justify investment in water-reduction programs. 
overall  water  risk 
 Low risk (0-1)
  L ow to medium risk (1-2)
 Medium to high risk (2-3)
 High risk (3-4)
 Extremely high risk (4-5)
 No data
Source: Aqueduct, World Resources Institute; 2014 GWI data
 Changing the Way Water is     
 V ALUED
It’s time to understand the full value of water.
Water is undervalued: Market prices are often inverse to scarcity.
30     ECOLAB     |     OUR LEADERSHIPThe Water Risk Monetizer ( www.WaterRiskMonetizer.com ) is the first 
financial modeling tool available to the public that enables companies to 
determine a risk-adjusted price of water to their business. Available to all water users at no cost, the tool uses a scientific model developed by Trucost to factor the potential impact of water risks in financial terms, the same way other risks are considered in planning and capital allocation. 
The tool is helping change the way companies value and manage water to 
reduce global water use, enable business growth despite water scarcity and drive demand for transformational water-saving innovation. It is a game-changer for industry that aims to help businesses succeed and ensure that limited fresh water supplies are available for future generations.
The Water Risk Monetizer is a 
relevant, applicable, timely and actionable tool that will help companies around the world more fully assess the value of water to their operations…  
We believe this tool will deliver significant value to Dow and to our customers.“
”— Mark Weick  
Dow Chemical Company
The launch of the Water Risk Monetizer in 2014 by Ecolab and Trucost marks a turning point in the type of water stewardship information available to companies.
”— Kari Vigerstol  
The Nature Conservancy“
OUR LEADERSHIP     |     ECOLAB    31 OUR PERFORMANCE
 Around the world + In our backyard =
 EVERYWHERE IT MATTERSIn 2014, we reaffirmed and strengthened our commitment to environmental 
stewardship. We have a history of strong environmental performance and have made significant strides in recent years to reduce our environmental impact. 
We are holding our company to a higher standard with aggressive new global 
sustainability targets, including a 25 percent reduction in effluent discharge and waste, a 20 percent reduction in water use and a 10 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2017 from a 2012 baseline.
We made incremental progress against our global sustainability targets in 2014. 
Our strengthened focus on continued integration of systems and processes across our global footprint resulted in actionable strategies to achieve the new goals. With a global team deployed to improve operational efficiency and performance, we expect to make significant strides toward our sustainability goals in 2015.
(Measured by intensity per million dollars in sales.)2014 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE (change from 2012 baseline )
Reduced:
GHG emissions by
7.0% 6.7%waste disposal by
2.7%wastewater discharge byEnvironmental
PERFORMANCE
Commitment to safety in our operations and in the 
products and applications we develop for customers.
Sustainability is core to our purpose at Ecolab. Stewardship of natural resources is an integral part of our operational and business 
strategy, from the way we run our plants and facilities to the products we develop and the way we serve our customers.
total water use by
6.9%
OUR PERFORMANCE     |     ECOLAB    33BURLINGTON, ONTARIO, CANADA FACILITY
Updated steam condensate piping in our warehouse 
to reduce boiler system condensate water overflow, reducing natural gas use by  
26,000 therms and saving  
790,000 gallons of water.JOLIET, ILLINOIS PLANT
Improved insulation of process heating piping  
and implemented a new boiler economizer,  
reducing natural gas use by  
155,000 therms.
NIEUWEGEIN, NETHERLANDS PLANT
Streamlined our steam pipes system,  
reducing natural gas use by  
6,000 therms.
COMMITTED TO CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
Through our Create and Maintain Value program, we employ our expertise and technology to continually 
find more ways to deliver strong business results while saving water, energy and wastewater and prolonging equipment life throughout our facilities. We do this with an eye for how our impact extends beyond our operations to local people and communities. In 2014, we completed 77 process improvement projects that 
delivered resource reduction outcomes across our global footprint.
CELRA, SPAIN PLANT
Improved steam generation processes,  
reducing natural gas use by  
8,000 therms and saving  
800,000 gallons of water.
CLEARING, ILLINOIS PLANT
Improved steam systems and cooling tower  
performance, reducing natural gas use by  
63,000 therms and saving more than 17 million gallons of water.SCHUMAN CAMPUS, EAGAN, MINNESOTA
The largest energy-consuming non-manufacturing  
facility in our global operations portfolio,  
received recertificaton of its 
LEED GOLD status through 
September 2019.
(2014 savings)
34     ECOLAB     |     OUR PERFORMANCEWith products and services touching people every day in nearly every corner of the world, we have a 
responsibility to embed sustainability into every aspect of our innovations. We pay careful attention to 
ingredient responsibility, human health and environmental impact, without compromising performance.   
Our health and safety procedures for product formulation start with raw materials. Our product safety team 
screens all raw materials for chemicals of concern and each raw material is reviewed for regional and global chemical inventory compliance.  This process informs final product safety analysis and safety data sheets  
(SDSs) for all Ecolab products.  
Our Customer Impact Product Profile process evaluates products based on more than 20 attributes relating 
to human, environmental and societal impacts. Included in these considerations are environmental exposure, packaging and delivery systems, use of natural capital (water, energy and materials) and identification of disfavored ingredients globally. As a result, sustainability factors are included early in the development process to reduce the potential impacts of our products, from development through use and disposal. Product
RESPONSIBILITY
JOLIET, ILLINOIS PLANT
NIEUWEGEIN, NETHERLANDS PLANT
SCHUMAN CAMPUS, EAGAN, MINNESOTACommitted to safety in our operations and to developing 
products for our customers and their intended application.
OUR PERFORMANCE     |     ECOLAB    35GLOBAL SAFETY SUPPORT
Our products comply with global regulations, and we 
lend our expertise to help shape global standards.
The Globally Harmonized System of Classification 
and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) provides a common approach to classifying chemicals and communicating product-safety information. Since 2009, Ecolab has been planning and implementing GHS, incorporating the standard into the nearly 200,000 SDSs issued annually in approximately  
66 different country-specific templates and  
43 languages. While implementing GHS internally, we also partnered with customers in Europe and the United States to help them meet their product safety goals by the 2015 GHS implementation deadline.
REACH 
Ecolab is leading significant scientific and regulatory coalition work on REACH, the European Union’s Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals. Ecolab successfully met the 2013 REACH deadline, registering chemistries to maintain continuity of supply to our customers. It is Ecolab’s intent to comply fully with the REACH regulations. Our commitment includes securing the long-term future of important cleaning and sanitizing chemistries upon which customers can rely, helping customers understand their obligations under REACH, and working with suppliers to ensure that our expectations under REACH are understood. CONFLICT MINERALS 
In 2014, we finalized a process for managing conflict minerals (tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold—collectively known as 3TG) in our supply chain and filed our first Conflict Minerals Report for the 2013 reporting year as required by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)*. Our conflict minerals management infrastructure established in 2014 includes robust supplier disclosure and procurement management systems. We also leveraged learnings from our 2013 reporting year to implement a number of process improvements for the 2014 reporting year, including further refinement of the scope of materials to review. Our scoping work identified the equipment portion of our supply chain as the nearly exclusive source of the potential for conflict minerals and therefore, in the limited cases where we put equipment into commerce, we have established a process to efficiently provide a 3TG disclosure to customers to facilitate their own SEC reporting.   
*In response to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act, Section 1502, approved by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission in August 2012.  
 
36     ECOLAB     |     OUR PERFORMANCEIn 2014, we made strategic investments to accelerate our business, strengthen our capabilities and increase 
our efficiencies. Our business is balanced by geography, by market and by customer segment. As a result, 
Ecolab enters 2015 with significant opportunities in every market we serve. Our continued focus on serving our customers once again resulted in strong financial performance in 2014. Our success was driven by:
•   E xpansion of current customer relationships 
•   Significant new business
•   New innovations and strong pipeline performance
•     C ontinued implementation of effective strategies to drive sales and earnings growth
•   Improved efficiency, productivity and cost synergies
•    O ffset of increased raw material costs and softness in certain marketsSustainability makes good business sense.Financial
PERFORMANCE
OUR PERFORMANCE     |     ECOLAB    37$ MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE % PERCENT CHANGE
2014 2013 2012 2014 2013
Net Sales $14,280.5 $13,253.4 $11,838.7 8% 12%
Net Income Attributable to Ecolab $1,202.8 $967.8 $703.6 24% 38%
Percent of Sales 8.4% 7.3% 5.9% – –
Diluted Net Income Attribuatable to Ecolab per Common Share $3.93 $3.16 $2.35 24% 34%
Adjusted Diluted Net Income Attribuatable to Ecolab per Common Share 
(non-GAAP measure)$4.18 $3.54 $2.98 18% 19%
Diluted Weighted-Average Common Shares Outstaning $305.9 $305.9 $298.9 – 2%
Cash Dividends Declared per Common Share $1.1550 $0.9650 $0.8300 20% 16%
Cash Provided by Operating Activities $1,815.6 $1,559.80 $1,203.0 16% 30%
Capital Expenditures $748.7 $625.1 $574.5 20% 9%
Ecolab Shareholders’ Equity $7,315.9 $7,344.3 $6,077.0 – 21%
Return on Total Beginning Equity 16.5% 15.8% 12.2% – –
Total Debt $6,596.4 $6,904.5 $6,5419.9 (5)% 6%
Total Debt to Capitalization 47.1% 8.2% 51.5% – –
Total Assets $19,466.7 $19,636.5 $17,572.3 (1)% 12%
For detailed financial information, refer to Ecolab’s 2014 Annual Report: investor.ecolab.comSUMMARY2014 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 GLOBAL INDUSTRIAL
 GLOBAL INSTITUTIONAL
 GLOBAL ENERGY
 OTHERBUSINESS MIX (percent of total sales)
30%
35%30%
5% 8% NORTH AMERICA
  EUR OPE, MIDDLE EAST  
AND AFRICA
 ASIA PACIFIC
 LATIN AMERICASALES BY REGION (percent of total sales)
24%
56%
12%
8% 20% 25% 24%
47%QUARTERLY CASH 
DIVIDEND RATEOPERATING INCOME NET SALESDILUTED EARNINGS
$1.32 
per common  share$2.0  
billion$3.93  
per share$14.4 BILLION
total debt to total 
capitalization  ratio OPERATIONS CASH FLOW  $1.8 billion
38     ECOLAB     |     OUR PERFORMANCEThe safety of our associates, contractors, customers and communities is vitally important and core to our 
company values. From the way we operate, to the products we develop, to how we serve customers, our goal 
is zero: zero accidents, zero incidents and zero environmental releases. 
Our global safety program, Safety Matters, embeds safety into our company culture. With a focus on making 
safety personal, we call on Ecolab associates to make safety a priority 24 hours a day, seven days a week,  
365 days a year. 
Our commitment is supported by an engaged executive safety leadership council, active safety leadership 
councils in all regions and large markets and a Board of Directors safety, health and environment committee.  Our commitment to safety is steadfast.Culture of 
SAFETY
OUR PERFORMANCE     |     ECOLAB    39MITIGATING RISKS
We track our performance on a range of leading and lagging safety indicators. A monthly assessment of our 
global safety dashboard data helps us identify underlying and potential risks, focus on areas of greatest need and measure the effectiveness of our safety programs.
Our proactive approach to risk identification enhances our comprehensive safety program and improves 
results. Through near-miss reporting and safety audits, we identify, assess and address risks at our locations and customer facilities. In 2014, we completed 287 safety audits, with a specific emphasis on our manufacturing, logistics and sales operations. Increased awareness and adoption of our near-miss reporting program resulted in a 73 percent increase in near-miss incident reporting.Lost Time Days:  
YOY reduction in Lost Time injuries
of our leadership team members (more than 700 individuals) completed the Safety Leadership training courseA global cell phone policy launched in 2014 banned use of cell phones in company cars or personal cars for company businesssafety champions trained to promote safety at Ecolab locations around the world
people completed Behind the Wheel training80%1,533 6%
20,000+TOTAL VEHICLE ACCIDENT RATE (TVAR)
Number of vehicle accidents per million miles drivenTOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE (TRIR)
Number of injuries and illnesses per 100 workers
 Global Water & Process Services and Energy Services    Global Institutional, Equipment Care, Textile Care and Healthcare    Total EcolabTRAINING & EDUCATION
We work continuously to enhance safety processes and programs, identify opportunities for improvement and 
give associates the information and resources they need to ensure safe operations. Education and training are core components of our strategy to ensure safety is everyone’s top priority. We engage our associates in proven programs and processes that improve personal safety, and we drive leadership practices that encourage transparency at every level of our organization.
severe vehicle accidents remained at a world-class low levelYOY reduction -5%
YOY reduction -4%0.75
3.02
1.670.66
2.93
1.60
2013 2014 ye2.22
4.02
3.361.99
3.84
3.19
2013 2014 ye
40     ECOLAB     |     OUR PERFORMANCEGIVING BACK 
Aligning economic, social and environmental performance offers benefits for both business and society. Through philanthropy and 
volunteerism, we support organizations and programs that strengthen and enrich the quality of life for our associates, customers 
and neighbors in the communities in which we operate. 
OVERFLOWING  
WITH  SUPPORT
OUR PERFORMANCE     |     ECOLAB    41 $4,375,000  
GLOBAL*
 $1,915,000  
YOUTH & EDUCATION
 $1,610,000  
COMMUNITY-BASED
 $1,100,000  
CAPITAL $730,000  
CIVIC & COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
 $415,000  
ARTS & EDUCATION
 $205,000  
ENVIRONMENT & CONSERVATION
 $214,000  
INDUSTRY41%18%15%
11%
7%
4%
2%
2% $10,564,500  
ECOLAB FOUNDATION
 $2,940,700  
IN-KIND/DISASTER  
RELIEF/VOLUNTEER HOURS
 $540,000  
CORPORATE GIVING75%21%
4%
SINCE ITS INCEPTION IN 1986, THE ECOLAB FOUNDATION HAS  
CONTRIBUTED MORE THAN $81 MILLION TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES.
2014 FOUNDATION AND CORPORATE GIVING
ECOLAB FOUNDATION 2014 CONTRIBUTION$14,045,200
$10,564,000
*Includes Solutions for Life
42     ECOLAB     |     OUR PERFORMANCEVISIONS FOR LEARNING 
CLASSROOM EDUCATION GRANTS PROVIDE UP TO $3,000 TO INDIVIDUAL  
TEACHERS FOR CURRICULUM-BASED MATERIALS. 
in grants$1,000,000 600
classrooms274
schools135,000
studentsINVESTING IN  
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
Associate-led regional community relations councils 
in 17 Ecolab communities across the United States support community needs and associate volunteer efforts through philanthropic contributions to 501(c)(3)  
 nonprofit organizations that align with Ecolab’s focus areas of giving.
designated in regional 
community relations  council grants. $755,845
ASSOCIATE AND RETIREE MATCHING  GIFTS
The Ecolab Foundation has donated more than $1,000,000 in matching gifts over the past five years 
to double the impact of dollars and time donated by associates and retirees to qualifying nonprofit organizations.
 (United States program)
 (2014; United States programs) (2014; United States program)
OUR PERFORMANCE     |     ECOLAB    43 Serving communities where Ecolab employees 
live and work including Alberta, Canada, the 
Philippines, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah and Washington. 
(2014 Global program)GRANTS SUPPORT EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM WITH LONG-STANDING  
NATIONAL NONPROFIT PARTNERS: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY, FEEDING AMERICA  
FOOD BANK AFFILIATES, DRESS FOR SUCCESS AND FIRST ROBOTICS .TEAM VOLUNTEER GRANTS
of program3rd Year 460+
volunteers3,100
volunteer hours
 (2014; United States programs)
44     ECOLAB     |     OUR PERFORMANCE“I CARE. I GIVE. IT MATTERS.”  
2014 EMPLOYEE GIVING CAMPAIGN
625 ECOLAB ASSOCIATES VOLUNTEERED 890 HOURS DURING THE  
WEEK OF CARING TO MAKE SCHOOL SNACK PACKS, DISASTER RELIEF KITS  
AND LAUNDRY SOAP PACKETS FOR LOCAL COMMUNITY PARTNERS.   in Ecolab Foundation matching$600,000$1.9 million$2.5 million in associate contributions
benefiting local United Ways around the United States,  
Global Impact and more than 1,100 associate designated  
qualifying nonprofit organizations.$1,700,000 of products donated in 
response to disasters around the world  
including 108 tons of cleaning and sanitizing product 
to help respond to the outbreak of Ebola in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Ghana.  
EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM
55,000
volunteer hours41%
increase over the previous year
$1.2 million+
value to the community  
(according to the Independent Sector)DISASTER RELIEF
OUR PERFORMANCE     |     ECOLAB    45GLOBAL GIVING 
Building on Ecolab's longstanding commitment to our communities, in 2014, the Ecolab Foundation's 
giving program extended globally through the introduction of Solutions for Life. The new signature global giving program enhances our mission to conserve water and improve hygiene around the world through collaborations with non-governmental organizations, global philanthropy and employee volunteerism.
In 2014, Ecolab announced an initial commitment of $3.5 million over the next 
three years to support Solutions for Life initiatives. Initial partnerships include:
The Nature Conservancy: Through the “Securing 
and Restoring Water Sources Around the Globe” program, Ecolab supports new and ongoing conservation efforts to protect water resources in Minnesota; Shanghai, China; and Monterrey, Mexico.Project WET Foundation: Through the co-created “Clean and Conserve” Education Program, Ecolab and Project WET aim to reach more than two million people with hands-on learning activities to improve water conservation and hygiene practices around the world.
46     ECOLAB     |     OUR PERFORMANCESUMMARY
This summary provides highlights of Ecolab’s 2014 
Corporate Sustainability Report, focused on where we have the greatest impact on the world:  
our customers, our operations and the communities in which we operate.
Ecolab’s Comprehensive 2014 Corporate 
Sustainability Report, for reporting period  
1 January through 31 December 2014, is available at Ecolab.com/sustainability . The report has been 
completed in alignment with the guidelines of  
the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 framework. 
In keeping with our commitment to transparency 
and disclosure, Ecolab responds to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index RobecoSAM Sustainability Assessment and the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Carbon, Water and Supply Chain surveys. In addition, we are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate and file an  
annual Communication on Progress as part of  
those commitments.
The customer impact stories included in this 
summary are supported by comprehensive,  
verified case studies.MATERIALITY
At Ecolab, sustainability is core to our business strategy of delivering solutions that help companies around the world achieve great results and operate more sustainably. The work we do matters, and the way we do it matters to our employees, customers, investors and communities.
The parameters of our 2014 Corporate Sustainability 
Report have been established based on a strategic assessment of the issues that our stakeholders care most about, are of greatest relevance to our business strategy and impact our ability to deliver on our promise to make the world cleaner, safer and healthier . This approach to materiality aligns with our corporate sustainability strategy to address some of the world’s most pressing and complex challenges through our own operations and the solutions we provide to our customers.
Our 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report and complete GRI Index can be found at: ecolab.com/sustainabilityAbout Our 
REPORT
     SUMMARY     |     ECOLAB    47Ecolab Global Headquarters
370 Wabasha Street North
St. Paul, MN 55102ecolab.com1 800 2 ECOLAB
© 2015 Ecolab USA Inc. All rights reserved. 48439/0800/0515 B-373Our 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report can be found at: ecolab.com/sustainabilityOur 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report and complete GRI Index can be found at: ecolab.com/sustainabilityThis report was printed by a WBENC-Certified firm.  
Printed using agri-based inks on FSC®-certified paper.