Promises Delivered for Customers, People and PlanetCORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY 
REPORT2021TABLE OF CONTENTS
ABOUT 
2 About This Report
3 Letters from Ec
olab’s Chief 
Executive Officer and 
Chief Sustainability Officer
5 About Ecolab
7 Continued COVID-19 
Response Effort
s
OUR APPROACH
9 ESG Governance and Incentives  
10 Stakeholder Engagement
12 Sustainability Materiality Ass
essment 
13 eROI: Creating and Measuring Value
14 Sustainable Development Goals
15 Our 2030 Sustainability Go
als
20 External Initiatives 
21 Awards and Recognition 
ENVIRONMENT
23 Environmental Management
24 Climate
33 Water
41 Biodiversity and Adaptation
43 Waste  
44 Product Safety and Sust
ainability SOCIAL
48 Talent Recruitment and Retention 
49 Benefits 
50 Labor Relations
51 Compensation 
52 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
57 Employee Engagement
58 Human Capital Development
60 Health and Safety
64 Community Involvement
GOVERNANCE
68 Corporate Governance
68 Integrity and Ethics
70 Anti-Corruption
71 Human Rights
72 Supplier Relations
74 Supplier Diversity
75 Political Action
76 Data Privacy, Tax and Compliance
APPENDIX
78 
ESG Performance Data
91 Reporting Reference 
Tables and Indexes  
92 Reporting Changes 
and R estatementsOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX  ABOUT
2
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |ABOUT THIS REPORT
The Ecolab Corporate Respon sibility Report documents Eco lab’s environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) performance on an annual, calendar  year basis. This report includes 
Ecolab’s performance from 1 January – 31 Dec ember 2021, unless o therwise st ated, and 
covers Ecolab’s global ent ities o f which we have operational contro l, including our global 
offices, manufact uring plants and resea rch, development and engineering  facilities. 
This report has been pre pared in accordance wi th th e Global Reporting Init iative (GRI) 
Standards: Core option an d includes mat erial Sustainability Disclo sure Topics and 
Accounting Metrics from th e Sustainability Account ing Standards Board (SASB) Che mica ls 
and Professional Service s Standards. Additionally, t his report addresses c ore Stakeholder 
Capitalism Metrics releas ed by the World Ec onomic Forum and its Internat ional Business 
Council and considers reco mmendations and supportin g disclo sures o f the Financial Stability 
Board (FSB ) Task Force on Climate- relate d Financial Disclosures ( TCFD).
In keeping with our commitment to transparency and disclosures, Ecolab reports ESG 
performance data to the annual S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment and CDP’s 
Climate Change, Water Security and Supply Chain surveys. In addition, we are a signatory of 
the United Nations Global Compact and file an annual Advanced Communication of Progress. 
Information in this repo rt is current as of 29 June  2022. The report has not been upd ated 
to reflect any changes since that d ate, including any changes to Ecolab’s business or 
strategy. Ecolab assumes no obligation and does n ot int end to update this report  to ref lect 
any such changes. All ref erences to dollars are to  U.S. dollars.FOR MORE INFORMATION
 2021 Annual Report and Form 10-K
 2021 CDP Climate Change Report
 2021 CDP Water Security Report
 2021 SASB Reference Table
 2021 WEF Reference Table
 2021 GRI Index
 2021 TCFD Index
 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report 2021 UN Global Company Communication of Progress
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX  ABOUT
3
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |ACCELERATING OUR GROWTH AND GLOBAL IMPACT
WE ARE LIVING IN HISTORIC TIMES. 
If the experience of the last two years has taught 
us 
anything, it is how interconnected and 
resilient 
we are as 
a people. As the 
world confronts the 
shared challenges of climate change, water 
scarcity and a global pandemic, Ecolab’s purpose – 
protecting people 
and the 
resources vital to life 
– 
has never been more important.
We have always seen opportunities where others see 
challenges. Just as climate change is among the 
greatest challenges of our time, finding the path to 
net-zero emissions is the corresponding growth 
opportunity. In 2021, we again proved that delivering 
both strong financial and sustainability performance 
is possible. By focusing on the business success of 
our customers, Ecolab grew 7% organically and 
delivered 17% EPS growth, consistent with the 
company's long-term ambition to grow sales 6-8%  and EPS 15%. Our performance as a business is core 
to our ability to deliver on our purpose – as Ecolab 
continues to grow, so does our positive impact on the 
world. 
Once again, internally we delivered on progress 
towards our ambitious 2030 goals by accelerating 
initiatives within our own operations and nurturing 
our talent. We advanced our efforts to achieve a 
positive water impact and halve our carbon emissions 
by 2030. All our European and North American 
facilities are set to source 100% renewable 
electricity, and we are on track to source 100% 
renewable electricity globally by 2030. We also made 
more progress toward our representation goals for 
women and people of color in 2021 than in the 
previous four years combined. We are proud to say 
that last year, 38% of all new management-level 
hires globally were women and 35% of all new 
management-level hires in the U.S. were people of 
color. And we achieved a 96% increase in year-over-
year spend with diverse suppliers. 
Beyond the progress toward our 2030 goals, we 
exponentially increased our impact through the work 
we do with our customers. In 2021, the Ecolab team 
continued to deliver for our customers, providing 
unmatched expertise and industry-leading programs, 
like Ecolab Science CertifiedTM, which has been 
designed to advance cleaner, safer practices, and 
which continues to expand. It has been adopted by 
some of the major global brands in the industry, and 
by thousands of restaurants, hotels, event spaces and 
retail locations, to help protect staff and customers 
from COVID-19. 
At the same time, the Ecolab team delivered on its 
long-term promise to help customers produce better 
outcomes, while improving their total operating costs 
by reducing their usage of natural resources and  their impact on the environment and by meeting 
their sustainability and net-zero goals. In 2021, 
in partnership with our customers, we helped:
Two billion people around the world are currently 
living in water-stressed areas, and the same will be 
true of more than half the world’s population by 2050 
if no action is taken. Because 150 companies can 
directly impact approximately one-third of the world’s 
water use, we believe that industry has a unique 
responsibility and opportunity to address the global 
water crisis. Ecolab therefore continues to 
exponentially grow its positive impact through 
initiatives like the Water Resilience Coalition, an 
industry-driven initiative of the UN Global Compact’s 
CEO Water Mandate, which Ecolab co-founded.
At Ecolab, we see an unparalleled opportunity to grow 
both our business and positive impact in the world, 
and to help our customers do the same. We are proud 
of our progress and what is still to come. Together, 
with our customers, we will keep growing and 
delivering on our purpose to make the world a 
cleaner, safer and healthier place by protecting 
people and the resources vital to life.
Sincerely, 
Christophe Beck
President and Chief Executive Officer•Conserve 215 billion gallons of water, or enough to
meet the drinking water needs of 734 million
people (well ahead of required progress to help
save enough drinking water for 1 b illion people by
2030),
•Provide safe food to 1.4 billion people. We are on-
track to provide safe food to 2 b illion people by
2030,
•Clean 60 billion hands, which is ahead of our 2030
target, and
•Avoid 3.6 million metric tons of greenhouse gas
emissions (also ahead of our target).OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX  ABOUT
4
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |ADVANCING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE TOGETHER WITH OUR CUSTOMERS
IN 2021, DESPITE THE MANY CHALLENGES 
FACING US, ECOLAB MADE TREMENDOUS 
PROGRESS TOWARD OUR AMBITIOUS 2030 
CUSTOMER IMPACT GOALS. 
We helped our customers save 2 15 b
illion gallons of 
water, provide safe food to 1.4 billion p
eople, clean 60 
billion hands and avoid 3.6 million metric tons of 
greenhouse gas emissions.
We have also made great progress in our efforts t
o 
achieve a net positive water impact, tackle carbon 
emissions, support a diverse and inclusive workforce 
and prioritize safety everywhere we work. A few 
highlights from 2021 include:  
• Receiving Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS)
certification for two additional manufacturing sites
in Mexico and receiving our first-ever platinum
certification for o
ur facility in Taicang, China
• Signing a  virtual power p urchase agreement
in Finland that will enable us to achieve 1
00%
renewable electricity by 2030
• Launching an employee-led Global Sustainability
Network to accelerate Ecolab’s growth and impact
It’s not easy for a company to achieve sustainability 
goals while simultaneously growing its business and 
creating value for stakeholders, but it can be done. • An unwavering commitment from leadership
• Alignment with our business s trategy
•
Readiness of our o
rganization to act
At Ecolab, we’ve learned that having our CEO and 
executive leadership committed to supporting us 
on this journey is critic al. A
nd what helps get them 
on board is underst
anding the implications to our 
business strategy in terms of risks and opportunities. 
If we don’t address the challenges posed by water 
scarcity and climat e c
hange, we can’t continue 
to succeed and gr
ow. Last, it’s essential to get 
the organization ready by establishing a 10-year 
path with science-based t
argets, defined annual 
milestones and leading indicators so leaders and 
managers can get the work d
one.
We are proud of what we accomplished in 2021, but 
we’re ev
en more excited about our future. The next 
decade will be critical as w
e deal with challenges 
related to the climate and water crisis. Togethe r, 
with our customers, we will continue to make a  
meaningful difference as we work toward our 
common goals.
Sincerely
, 
Emilio Tenuta
Senior Vice Pre
sident and Chief Sustainability OfficerI am confident that we can continue on our glide p ath 
toward
 achieving our goals because of three key 
factors:
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX  ABOUT
5
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |ECOLAB IS EVERYWHERE IT M ATTERS
Founded in 1923 and headquar tered in St. Paul, Min nesot a, Ecolab Inc.  
(NYSE: ECL) is a global leader  in water, hygiene and  infection prevention 
solutions and services tha t help protect people, pla net and business health and 
a trusted partner at n early three million customer lo cations.
Ecolab’s 4 7,000 associates provide compre hensive science-based so lutions, 
data-driven insights and world-class service to  advance food safety, help 
maintain clean and safe env ironments, optimize water and energy use and 
improve operational effic iencies and sustainability for customers in the food, 
healthcare, hospitality a nd industrial markets in mor e than 170 countries. 
From hotels, restaurants a nd healthcare facilities t o food and beverage and 
manufacturing plants and powe r generation facilities across  the globe, Ecolab’s  
25,000-strong sales-and-servi ce team , the industry’s largest a nd best trained, 
utilizes innovative solution s, digital technologie s and unmatched insights  to help 
solve the most pressing cha llenges our customers face . Many of the world’s leading 
companies rely on E colab to help ensure produc t qual ity and guest satisfaction, 
maintain brand reputation  and achieve their operational  and s ustainability goals. 
For more information, visit  ecolab.com or c all 1.800.2.ECOLAB. Follow us on 
LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram and Facebook.
OUR PURPOSE
We are united by our  purpose to mak e the world cleaner, safe r and healthier 
while protecting people and vital resources. 
We combine best-in-class te chnologies, data-driven insights and personalized 
service to deliver the best  results at t he lowest total cost for our customers. 
When our customers succe ed, we succeed.
OUR VALUES
•We reach our goals.
•We do what’s right.
•We challenge ourselves.
•We work together with diverse perspectives
.
•We make a difference.
•And we do all this with care, putting safety firs
t.
25,000-strong 
sales-and-service team
700 
digital technology 
professionals1,200 
scientists, engineers and 
technical specialists
$186 Million 1.5%10,000+ 
patents
invested in R&D of salesECOLAB BY THE NUMBERSOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX  ABOUT
6
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |OUR EXPERTISE
Our work is crucial for the health of our changing 
world. We are well positioned to help customers solve their operational and sustainability goals while meeting the growing demand around water, food, health and climate. 
Organizations face increasing challenges due to 
climate change and natural resource availability. Ecolab solutions help our customers adopt processes to reduce water and energy use, which helps increase operational efficiency, reduce environmental impact and protect our world’s vital resources. 
Our solutions and expertise around food safety 
are critical to the reputations of businesses that manufacture, sell or serve food and beverages and helps protect the health and well-being of people everywhere. 
Finally, we know that clean environments are key to 
both business success and daily health whether in the hospitality industry or in hospitals. Ecolab’s innovative cleaning, laundry, warewashing and hygiene solutions play an important role in ensuring everyone – from employees to guests – stays safe.OUR BUSINESSES
Global Institutional & Specialty
Provides specialized cleaning and sanitizing products to the global foodservice, hospitality, lodging, government, education and food retail industries. 
Global Industrial 
Provides water treatment and process applications, and cleaning and sanitizing solutions primarily to large industrial customers within the manufacturing, food and beverage processing, transportation, chemical, primary metals and mining, power generation, refining, petrochemical and pulp and paper industries. 
Global Healthcare & Life Sciences 
Provides specialized cleaning and sanitizing products as well as premium fluid treatment and purification solutions to the healthcare, personal care and pharmaceutical industries. 
Other
Provides pest elimination services to the foodservice, food and beverage processing, healthcare, lodging, grocery and other commercial settings through the Pest Elimination business. Commercial laundry wash process products and services are provided by the Textile Care business for uniform and linen rental, hospitality and healthcare laundries. Colloidal silica for binding and polishing applications is provided through our Colloidal Technologies Group for semiconductor, aerospace and other industries.OUR OPER ATIONS
Ecolab o per
ates
 an extensive, integrated global 
supply chain, which comprises more than 300 
manufacturing plants, distribution centers and 
other facilities owned and o
perated by Ecolab to 
support the company’s direc t sales, marketing and 
distribution activities. In addition, we have 1,300 
offices and R
&D centers globall y. We have operations 
in 105 countries across North America, Europe, 
Greater China, Asia Pacific, Latin America and India, 
Middle East and Africa.
 
We have 7,700 indirect supply chain partners 
totaling $2.2 billion in spend, and we procure more 
than $3.8 billion of direct raw m
aterial, contract 
manufacturing and equipment from more than 7,800 
suppliers worldwide and manage distribution 
through various
 channels to external customers.
ACQUISITIONS
In December 2021, Ecolab purchased Purolite, 
a leading and fast-growing global provider o
f 
high-end exchange resigns for the separation 
and purification of solutions critical to safe, high-
quality drug production and biopharma product 
purification. Purolite also provides purification and 
separation solutions for critical i
ndustrial markets, 
including m
icroelectronics, nuclear power and food 
and beverage. Headquartered in King of Prussia, 
Pennsylvania, Purolite operates in more than 30 
countries and will report overall results within 
Ecolab’s Life Sciences division.OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX  ABOUT
7
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |
Throughout the second year of the COVID-19 
pandemic, we continued to help protect our customers through our products and expertise. Through Ecolab proprietary research conducted in 2021, we found that over 95% of consumers want to see as much or more cleaning and sanitation practices even after the COVID-19 vaccine had been distributed. Ecolab Science Certified
TM, designed to 
advance cleaner, safer practices, helps to deliver confidence as consumers get back to the moments and the places they have been missing.
The best way to combat COVID-19 is to attack the 
virus that causes it. The comprehensive Ecolab Science Certified program is designed for specific business environments to use science-backed products and protocols to address a range of known and emerging food safety and public health issues, including COVID-19.
The Ecolab Science Certified program uses 
products, including hospital disinfectants, proven effective against the COVID-19 virus and other germs; requires employees are trained on when, where and how to clean and disinfect properly; and validates that cleaning and disinfecting procedures are being followed with periodic audits.
The Ecolab Science Certified audit checks that 
participating businesses are following local and federal public health guidelines. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, this includes practices like social distancing and mask-wearing to mitigate the risk of airborne transmission.
To further advance cleaner and safer practices, 
the program also addresses multiple sources of infection transmission, including surfaces, water, hands and air. The Ecolab Science Certified audit is designed to check that infection transmission sources and services are properly addressed. 
The Ecolab Science Certified program continued to 
expand in 2021 and has been adopted in thousands of restaurant, hotel, event and retail sites. With more than 22,000 Ecolab Science Certified seals in North America, our partners are committed to clean.
ECOLAB SCIENCE CERTIFIED HELPS CREATE CONSUMER 
CONFIDENCE AMID THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
84%  want frequent cleaning and sanitizing of
high-touch objects
81%  want hand sanitizer provided
80%  want strict cleaning protoc
ols
76% want hospital products used
73
% want independent audits completedCONSUMER EXPECTATIONS 
HAVE BEEN HEIGHTENED:
7 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX  ABOUT
8
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |
OUR 
APPROACH
Impacting What Matters
PEOPLE HEALTH  |  PLANET HEALTH  |  BUSINESS HEALTH
Ecolab is a leading environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
compan y, rec ogniz
ed for our strong commitment to operating 
responsibl y, sustainably and with concern for our communities. We help 
solve our world’
s greatest wate r, food, health and c limate challenges 
through our commitment to protect the environment, address social 
c
oncerns and adhere t
o responsible policies and practices. 
We maximize the impacts of our work within our business operations 
and with our customers, suppliers and partners and realize our 
greatest opportunity to drive sustainable development is through our 
products and services. We deliver innovative solutions that 
help companies ar
ound the world achieve exceptional business 
results while minimizing environmental and social impact and are 
also committed to using our solutions and expertise to advance sustainability in our own operations. OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
9 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |ESG GOVERNANCE 
While the full Board o f Directors monitors t he 
company’s progress on environmental, socia l and 
governance (ESG) outcomes,  the Safety, Health and 
Environment (SHE) Commi ttee has the highest le vel 
of direct responsibilit y for sustainability polic ies, 
programs and practices tha t affect, or co uld affect, 
Ecolab employees, customer s, stockholders and 
neighboring communities.  The SHE Committee 
materials are available t o the Board, and the SHE 
Committee reports to the Boa rd on  the company’s 
progress against its sustain ability goals and 
implementation of projects a nd related activities. 
The SHE Committee is also resp onsible for assuring 
the company's compliance  with applicable safety, 
health and environmental law s and regulations and 
monitoring such compliance. See our SHE 
Committee Charter for additio nal information.
Ecolab’s sustainability  strategy includes 
environmental, social and  governance components 
and is governed by a Sustaina bility Executive 
Advisory Team (SEAT) that is ma de up of around 
10 members of the company’ s executive leadership 
team including our Senior  Vice President and Chie f 
Sustainability Officer. The SEAT meets with the 
Corporate Sustainability team on a quarterly basis. 
Outputs of these meetings are reported by the 
Senior Vice President and C hief Sustainability 
Officer to the SHE Committee  of the Board. The 
Corporate Sustainability team is comprised of 
research and development,  communications, 
marketing and supply chain functions and is 
responsible for operation alizing sustainable 
business practices a nd polices across the  company, 
coordinating and communica ting policy and 
decision-making related t o sustainability, settin g 
goals and metrics for key  sustainability priorities 
and assessing sustainabil ity outlook and risk 
management.INCENTIVES 
Ecolab is unique in that its value proposition 
for customers has, for nearly a century, been to 
fundamentally improve their sustainabilit y. Our 
products are designed to provide not only the best 
performance for our broad range of customers, but 
to do so in a manner using less of the customers’ 
resources. Through our work, we have a major impact 
on customers’ water and energy use, and thereby can 
leverage the environmental work we perform in our 
own operations. 
Strategic ESG and sustainability indicators are 
included in our measures of performance used 
to determine compensation for senior leaders 
and employees. To promote sustained company 
success, all leaders work together to deliver against 
corporate ESG goals. ESG indicators, including our 
2030 Impact Goals, are a part of how we measure 
performance, which is used to determine short-term 
cash compensation for executives. Our cash bonus 
plans include an Individual Business Objective which 
is a component within the overall bonus plan design. 
Bonus payout for Individual Bonus Objectives within 
the bonus plan are adjusted up or down in alignment 
with performance against and achievement of stated 
goals. Performance against these objectives is also 
used to differentiate other executive compensation 
components such as annual merit.
Management employees with direct involvement 
in the company’s ESG and sustainability work, 
including our 2030 Impact Goals
, have wate r, climate 
and/or div
ersity, equity and inclusion targets built 
into their compensation plans. We use different 
performance measures in our short- and long-term 
incentive plans, and these measures directly reflect 
the significant positiv
e impact our products and 
services can have o
n reducing our customers’ water 
and energy usage. Since our value proposition is to 
provide customers the bes
t results while consistently lowering their environmental impacts, improving 
sustainability is an inherent driver of our financial success, which translates directly into our adjusted EPS goal in our annual incentive plan and adjusted ROIC goal in our equity program. OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
10
STAKE HOLDER ENGAGEMENT
To garner a c omprehensive understand ing of our 
risks and opportunities, we enga ge in ongoing 
dialogue with a di verse se t of stakeholders to 
assess th e relevancy of sustainability  issues a nd 
identify op portunities t o improve. Stakeholders  are 
profiled acco rding to the nature of t heir relationship 
with Ecolab, their intere st and their willingness 
to engage with and influence  the compan y. Our 
annual stakeholder-engage ment process in cludes 
employees, investors, customers, suppliers and 
relevant external groups,  such as non-governmental  
organizations (NGOs) and communities.
Employees
Our associates drive inn ovation, support business 
growth and provide person ally delivered service 
and on-the-ground suppor t at nearly three million 
customer locations. The perspectives o f our 
associates ar e critical to our success a nd inform 
our business st rateg y. In 2019, we surveyed more  
than 5,000 associates a nd held in-person inter views 
to inform our sustainabili ty strategy and focus 
areas for subsequent years. In addition, our annu al 
Assessment of Significant  Business Ri sks and 
biannual sustainability mate riality assessment 
processes in clude interviews and sur veys of 
leadership across bu siness un its and functions, 
including business l eads, Human Resources,  Supply 
Chain, Resear ch, Developmen t and Engineering, 
Finance, Risk, Legal and Reg ulatory Affairs a nd  
Field Sales.  
Sustainability is core to Ecolab’s culture. Every day, 
our 47,000 associates look for ways to solve our world’s greatest water, food, health and climate challenges with our customers and in our own operations. So, when associates around the world began imagining ways to help Ecolab amplify its positive impact on the planet, they knew harnessing their shared passion could have a big effect. 
That’s why Ecolab’s associates launched the Global 
Sustainability Network (GSN), a new employee-led community group that will work to accelerate Ecolab’s growth and impact through education, communication and collaboration on environmental sustainability issues. The group will embody the idea that in order to create a healthier, more sustainable world, we’ll need to work together more closely than ever before.
We have made tremendous progress toward our 2030 
Impact Goals, but we have now reached a point in our evolution as a trusted sustainability leader, that the work we have in front of us over the next decade 
can no longer fall on the shoulder
s of the vital few. 
We are expanding opport
unities to drive change to all 
associates to help u
s on the journey we are on. Being 
able to engage Ecolab associates, build awareness and 
provide education o
n the lat
est sustainability trends 
demonstrate how each and ev
ery employee can have a  
direct impact on sustainabilit
y through their work.
The Global Sustainability N
etwork welcomes Ecolab 
associates acros
s the world and had over 550 founding 
members upon its launch on Earth Day 2022.
With more than 25,000 s
ales-and-service associates 
servicing nearly three million customer locations in 
170 countries acros
s the global, Ecolab associates are 
helping make the world cleaner, safer and healthier, 
protecting people and vital resources. The new G
lobal 
Sustainability Network will continue that momentum, 
helping Ecolab in its aim to deliver a m
ore sustainable 
future for everyone.EMPLOYEE-LED ‘GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK’ 
TO ACCELERATE ECOLAB’S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
10 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       | OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Investment Community
As a publicly traded company, we place a priority 
on the opinions of our shareholders. We engage in direct dialogue each year at our annual shareholder meeting, and via disclosures, surveys and rankings from investor-led indices. Specifically, we use data sets and criteria provided from investor-led organizations to communicate with these groups to share results and shape our strategy. Additionally, we believe there is opportunity to enhance our 
Communities
We p rimarily e
ngage with the communities in which 
we operate through the Ecolab Foundation. Since 
1986, the Ecolab Foundation has implemented 
community impact p
rograms to support 
communities where our employees live and w
ork, 
focusing on giving to local non-profit organizations 
in the areas 
of youth and education, civic and 
community development, arts, culture and 
environmental conservation. Through this work, we 
engage in direct dialogue with a variety of 
community groups to understand what matters most 
and incorporate their feedback into our approach.the results they desire —  and use this k nowledge to 
drive innovation to help them achieve their business 
and sustainability goals. In addition to our daily 
interactions with customers, we conduct interviews 
with customers a
s part of our biannual s
ustainability 
materiality assessment process, actively participate 
in various industry associations and c
onduct annual 
reviews of our partnerships with each customer to 
understand customer-specific issues, measure our 
impact and assess
 key business drivers to shape 
future strategies.
Customers
Our relationships with many of the world’s biggest 
brands give us a  unique opportunity t o u
nderstand 
sustainability risks and o
pportunities facing a  wide 
range of industries all a
round the world. We learn 
from our customers —  the challenges they face a nd 
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
Our ability to help make the world cleaner, safer and 
healthier through our products and services i s 
strengthened t
hrough o ur partnerships w ith 
reputable g
lobal NGOs. In 2021, our N GO
 
partnerships included the Water Resilience Coalition 
as p
art of the UN Global Compact and  CEO  Water 
Mandate, Alliance for Water Stewardship, The Nature 
Conservancy,
 the Project WET Foundation, W ate
r.org 
and the World Resources Institute. Our a ctive 
engagements w
ith these and other NGO groups 
through events, interviews and other direct 
communications strengthens our understanding of 
global trends impacting our business, customers and 
communities, and influences our assessment o f 
societal risks and opportunities relevant to Ecolab’s 
business.corporate r eputation through our environmental 
programs a nd climate-related goals, thereby 
strengthening relationships within the investment 
community and boosting the attractiveness and 
stability of Ecolab as a  strong ESG investment.
11 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       | OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
The parameters of our 2021 Corporate Responsibility 
Report have been established based on a strategic assessment of the issues that our stakeholders care most about, are of greatest relevance to our business strategy and align with our purpose to make the world cleaner, safer and healthier.
Process 
We employ a multifaceted process to identify and prioritize sustainability topics that are important to our stakeholders, align with our company’s and customers’ key business drivers and inform our corporate strategy and reporting of these issues as required in our Annual Report and 10-K.
Ecolab’s annual enterprise Assessment of Significant 
Business Risks provides the foundation for assessing the materiality of issues to our business and our shareholders. These comprehensive reviews are conducted using a survey tool designed to identify strategic, operational, financial and compliance-related risks to the company. Risks are documented along with the likelihood and impact of their occurrence. An audit-services vice president manages the process, and the results are presented to the Executive Management team and Ecolab’s Board of Directors. The most significant business risks are reported publicly through the company’s annual 10-K. Ecolab’s CEO is responsible for appropriate strategy adjustments.
A biannual sustainability materiality assessment 
informs our corporate sustainability strategy and reporting activities. This process involves a detailed review of industry trends and best practices, peer benchmarking and internal and external stakeholder engagement with employees, investors, customers, community groups and non-governmental organizations. It also leverages the results of our enterprise Assessment of Significant Business Risks to align the materiality of sustainability topics with key business drivers. Topics are ranked and prioritized according to significance of impact and importance to stakeholders to ensure we focus on the most strategic issues and maintain Ecolab’s sustainability leadership in the marketplace. Outputs of this assessment are integrated into the annual Assessment of Significant Business Risks to ensure critical sustainability risks and opportunities are further evaluated and linked to our core business strategy.
Results
Guided by the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Reporting Principles, we conducted a sustainability materiality refresh in 2019 that built upon previous assessments conducted in 2017 and 2015. We used GRI’s definition of material topics to identify relevant and material topics to include in the analysis. Through this process, we identified priority material topics that are important to stakeholders and significant to our business.
These results were reviewed by our CEO and 
Sustainability Executive Advisory Team (SEAT) and further evaluated against the same set of criteria used in our Enterprise Risk Management process and annual Assessment of Significant Business Risks to identify the topics most critical for the global business that align with our core values, goals and competencies. This final analysis informed creation of our 2030 Impact Goals and the continued integration of sustainability into our corporate strategy, business operations, culture and communications.
Importance to Ecolab Business PerformanceImportance to Ecolab Stakeholders
LOW
LOWHIGH
HIGHOTHER
Material IssuesPRIORITY
Material IssuesENVIRONMENTAL
      Water
      Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions      Waste
PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY
      Product Design and  
      Lifecycle Management      Chemical Management      Responsible Sourcing
SOCIAL
      Occupational Health and Safety      Human Capital Management      Diversity, Equity and InclusionSUSTAINABILITY MATERIALITY 
ASSESSMENT
12 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  | OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
eROI: CREATING AND MEASURING VALUE
Our solutions help customers achieve ambitious business and environmental goals. With an exceptional 
combination of science and service, we deliver exponential outcomes that benefit customers and 
communities. We call this our eROISM value: the exponential return on investment, or eROI, from customers’ 
improved performance, operational efficiency and sustainable impact. 
Measurement is a critical 
component of our process. Using our proprietary eROI methodology, we measure our sustainable impact and quantify customers’ return on investment. By helping to measure value, Ecolab supports our customers in tracking and enhancing the value they create in the world. 
Every year, we measure our 
total impact using our eROI Customer Impact Counter . The 
counter includes all technologies that track savings delivered to customers and have established methodologies. We continue to evaluate opportunities to add new technologies to the counter on an  annual basis. 
Conserve more than  
215 BILLION  
gallons of waterConserve more than  
45 TRILLION  
BTUs of energyAvoid more than 
84 MILLION  
pounds of waste
Avoid more than  
3.6 MILLION  
metric tons of 
C0 2 emissionsIN 2021, WE HELPED OUR CUSTOMERS:
Our eROI impact is based on historical and forecasted marketing and 
sales data. The estimation is updated annually to account for changes in market growth and new technologies. Ecolab’s eROI methodology has been independently reviewed by third-party consultant group Anthesis LLC with verified appropriate systems for collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data for determination of the potential savings and benefits of products and services for the stated period and boundaries.ENERGY WASTE
PRODUCTIVITY PROFITABILITYWATER
GREENHOUSE  
GASESFOOD SAFETY COSTS
ASSET 
PROTECTIONHUMAN 
HEALTH 
AND SAFETYENVIRONMENTAL 
RESPONSIBILITY
TOTAL VALUE 
DELIVERED
BRAND 
PROTECTION
PRODUCT  
QUALITYIn 2021, eROI projects  
delivered more than  
$750 million globally in 
annualized savings for 
our customers.
13 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |
 OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the 2030 blueprint 
to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. They address the global challenges we face, including those related to poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, peace and justice. Ecolab is committed to partnerships and programs that fulfill the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and believe we are well-positioned today to make our greatest contributions in three areas. 
GOAL 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION
We aim to achieve a positive water 
impact in both our own operations 
and our customers’ sitesGOAL 13: CLIMATE ACTION
We align our operations and supply 
chain to the UN Global Compact’s 
Business Ambition for 1.5ºC, pledging 
to halve carbon emissions by 2030 
and achieve net-zero carbon  
emissions by 2050GOAL 5: GENDER EQUALITY
We believe that a diverse and  
inclusive workforce is critical to the 
success of our associates, our  
company and our customers
14 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |
 OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
OUR 2030 IMPACT GOALS FOR CUSTOMER OUTCOMES 
Our 2030 Impact Goals are focused on the change we can create for our company, communities, customers and environment. With these ambitious goals to achieve 
alongside customers and in our own operations, we are working to support a safe and healthy world with enough resources for all.  Ecolab technologies and services 
help drive exponential return on investment (eROI) for our customers, while helping protect people and vital resources. These 2030 Impact Goals showcase our 
global team’s dedication to helping our customers thrive and make a positive impact water, climate, food and health. 
By 2030, our goal is to help customers conserve 300 billion gallons (~1.1 billion 
cubic meters) of water annually, equivalent to the annual drinking water needs of 1 billion people. 
In 2021, we helped customers save 215 billion gallons of water, equivalent to 
the drinking water needs of 743 million people. 
We measure our progress based on global sales data and business growth 
related to our water-saving technologies and industry-specific assumptions. A strong innovation pipeline and improved data capture techniques from global markets will contribute to continued progress. 2018 20180 0Billion Gallons Water
Million MT C02e
Target188
3.03.43.5 3.66.0
206 206215300
Actual100 2200 4300 6
2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 2030 Goal 2030 GoalGOAL: 
300 BILLION  
gallons water saved [~1.1 billion cubic meters]GOAL: 
6 MILLION  
MT C0 2e avoidedWATER CLIMATE
Target Actual
By 2030, our ambition is to help customers become carbon neutral by reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 6 million metric tons annually, preventing nearly 10 million pollution-related illnesses. 
In 2021, we helped customers avoid 3.6 million metric tons of greenhouse gas 
emissions, preventing almost 5.9 million pollution-related illnesses.  
We measure our progress based on global sales data and business growth 
related to our energy-saving technologies and industry-specific assumptions. A strong innovation pipeline and improved data capture techniques from global markets will contribute to continued progress.60% 
Progress 
toward goal72% 
Progress 
toward goal
15 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  | OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
16 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |2018 20180 0Billion People
Billion Hands
Target Target Actual Actual1
0.530
151.5
60
452 90
75
2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 2030 Goal 2030 GoalGOAL: 
2 BILLION  
people provided safe and quality foodGOAL: 
90 BILLION  
hands cleanedFOOD HEALTHOUR 2030 IMPACT GOALS FOR CUSTOMER OUTCOMES  
By 2030, we aim to help customers provide high-quality and safe food to 2 
billion people for an entire year, preventing 11 million foodborne illnesses. 
In 2021, we helped customers provide high-quality and safe food to 1.4 billion 
people for an entire year, preventing almost 8 million foodborne illnesses. 
We measure our progress based on production data and business growth 
from our global Food & Beverage business, the number of meals served by Quick Service Restaurants and Food Retail Services customers and annual food consumption in the United States. Overall growth in global food production is keeping us on track as food service industries rebound amid the COVID-19 pandemic.By 2030, our goal is to help clean 90 billion hands and provide safe medical care for 116 million people each year, reducing more than 1.7 million infections. 
In 2021, we helped customers clean 60 billion hands, provided safe medical 
care to 71 million people and reduced 2.2 million infections. 
We measure our progress based on the average number of healthcare 
instruments washed, chemistry sales and our business growth. While hand hygiene slowed to match demand amid the COVID-19 pandemic, we are still ahead of pace to meet our 2030 goal.70%
Progress 
toward goal67%
Progress 
toward goal1.3 1.31.4 1.4
384566
6090 2.0 OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
17
According to the United Nations1, by 2050, the world 
will need 60% more food than what is produced today. 
At the same time, consumers’ tastes are changing. They are seeking more local, fresh and organic foods, and want increased transparency around the food supply chain and food safety. The food value chain is one of the last major industries to completely modernize, but the latest technologies are having a major positive impact throughout the food system. 
With our food safety expertise and knowledge 
of the food industry, we are in a unique position to guide entrepreneurs and start-ups that are creating these new technologies. And while Ecolab provides innovative food safety solutions and programs from the farm and processing facilities to restaurants and retail every day, we recognize that helping bring critical solutions to scale can help us solve the challenges of safely feeding the world’s growing population. 
That is why we teamed up with Cargill and the 
Techstars Farm to Fork Accelerator, a mentorship-driven program that engages early-stage entrepreneurs focused on the future of food and agriculture. Now in its fourth year, the Techstars Farm to Fork Accelerator identifies and fosters entrepreneurs seeking to effect positive change across the food system through the improvement of food safety and quality, food-related digital technology, the use of upcycled materials and the harnessing of research data for the betterment of the industry. The 11 teams in the 2021 class came from across the United States and the globe and included the Farm to Fork Accelerator’s first two teams from Africa.Ecolab believes that innovative ideas can come from anyone and anywhere, and our involvement in the Techstars program is one way that we are helping to advance innovation to benefit the food industry and ultimately, society. We provide mentorship to help the entrepreneurs advance their solutions and enable a more efficient and sustainable food system. At the same time, we learn from their approach to problem-solving and harness their energy into the Twin Cities startup community.
Help provide safe 
and high-quality 
food to 1.4 billion 
peopleFOR MORE INFORMATION
 Techstars Farm to Fork Accelerator
Help produce  
45%  of the global 
milk supply safelyHelp produce  
and protect 36% 
of the world’s  
packaged food 
8 million  
foodborne illnesses 
prevented SUPPORTING EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES ACROSS FOOD SUPPLY CHAIN  
OUR ANNUAL FOOD SAFETY IMPACTAccording to the United 
Nations1, by 2050
1UN Chronicle
17 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       | OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
OUR 2030 IMPACT GOALS FOR ECOLAB OPERATIONS
Alongside the impact we make  with our customers, we k now we can make a difference th rough our own operations. In addition to bold environment al targets, we have 
goals focused on an inc lusive, diverse, just and sa fe community for our associat es.
Global water challenges are the new normal. According to the World Resources Insti-
tute, our world will experience a 56% freshwater deficit by 2030 if nothing changes. That’s why Ecolab aims to achieve a positive water impact. By 2030, we plan to: 
•
Reduce water impact by 40% per unit production across our ent
erprise from
a 2018 base year
•Restore greater than 50% of our absolut
e water withdrawal volume at
high-risk sites
•Achieve Alliance for Water Stewar
dship (AWS) Standard certification in
high-risk watersheds
In 2021, we reduced overall water impact by 25% per unit production from a 2018 
base year, restored 34%  of our absolute water withdrawal at high-risk sites and 
have achieved AWS certification at four of our facilities in high-risk basins. Joining the fight against climate change is no longer  optional. Ecolab will halve 
carbon emissions by 2030, achieve net-zero carbon  emiss
ions b y 2050 and 
achieve 100% renewable electricity by 2030. We are also working with 
suppliers to set similarly  ambitious carbon targets aligned with the science-
based target methodology
 by 2024.
In 20
21, we made progress b y reducing absolute Scope 1  and 2 carbon emissions 
by 28% from a  2018 base year . In 2021, 69% of our total electricity usage was 
considered renewable. We also established that suppliers accounting for 6.5% 
of S
cope 3  emissions (covering purchased goods and s
ervices, capital goods, 
upstream transportation and distribution, business travel, and downstream 
transportation and distribution) have set science-based targets.ACHIEVING A POSITIVE WATER IMPACT TACKLING CARBON EMISSIONS 
20180.00Water Impact Intensity 
(cubic meters / MT)
(base year)1.002.003.00
2019 2020 2021 2030 Goal
Target Actual2.732.362.31
40%
Reduction2.05
62% 
Progress 
toward goal
20180Metric tons of Co2e
(base year)200,000400,000600,000
2019 2020 2021 2030 Goal
Target Actual50%
Reduction460,055 469,175
335,126 330,999
56% 
Progress 
toward goal
18 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  | OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
SUPPORTING A DIVERSE AND  
INCLUSIVE WORKFORCE 
2019 20190 0Global Gender Diversity 
at Management Levels
Racial/Ethnic Diversity at 
Management Levels in the U.S.2020
1010303040
2020 2020 2021 2021 2030 Goal 2030 Goal35% 25%
25.5 %18.8% 24.4 %17.4%24.3 %17.3%
Continuing inequity in our world has reinforced the need to drive faster, deeper 
progress inside Ecolab and within society. We believe that a diverse, inclusive and purpose-driven team is critical to the success of our individual associates, our company, our customers and our communities. We are committed to:
• Maintaining Ecolab’s pay equity in the U.S. and expanding globally
• Increasing management-level gender diversity to 35% with the ultimate goal
of g
ender parity
• Increasing management-level ethnic/racial diversity to 25% as we seek to
meet f
ull representation of the U.S. workforce at all levels
In 2021, we grew management-level gender diversity to 25.5% and management-  
level ethnic/racial diversity in the U.S. to 18.8%.Our safety goal is always zero incidents. But Goal Zero is more than a numbe r. 
We place great value on t
raining and education, both at our own facilities  
and at customer locations. We assess risk before we start work, identify 
and address safety issues and remedy hazardous situations — at any Ecolab 
location and wherever we operate.  
By 2030, we aim to train a
nd educate 100% of our associates to work safely 
100% of the time. In 2021, we made strides toward this goal.In Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR) from 2013  base 
year, globallyIn Lost Time Incident Rate  
(LTIR) from 2016  
base year in North America44%
Reduction39%
ReductionPRIORITIZING SAFETY EVERYWHERE WE 
WORK THROUGH GOAL ZERO OUR 2030 IMPACT GOALS FOR ECOLAB OPERATIONS  
73% 
Progress  
toward goal75% 
Progress  
toward goal
19 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  | OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 
Ecolab subscribes to, or endorses, externally 
developed economic, environmental and social charters and principles, including:
 Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) 
Since 2010, Ecolab has partnered with the World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF) and AWS to develop and launch the International Water Stewardship Standard. Ecolab is a founding partner of the AWS Standard.
 UN Business Ambition for 1.5ºC 
In 2019, Ecolab joined the UN Business Ambition for 1.5ºC, a campaign led by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in partnership with the UN Global Compact and the We Mean Business coalition. This campaign has brought together a growing group of leading companies pledging to do their part in decarbonizing the economy by committing to reduce carbon emissions by 50% by 2030 and to net-zero by 2050. 
 Business for Water Stewardship
In 2021, Ecolab helped fund a landmark water conservation project to help secure 150,000 acre-feet of conservation (nearly 49 billion gallons of water) to help shore up Lake Mead through the Colorado River Indian Tribe system conservation project.
 California Water Action Collaborative
As a member since 2017, Ecolab supports collective action projects to improve water security in California for people, business, agriculture and nature. CDP
Ecolab has participated in and reported to CDP since 
2006 to transparently disclose our environmental 
impacts. In 2021, Ecolab scored an A on our CDP 
Water Security response and A- on our CDP Climate 
Change submission. 
 RE100
In 2020, Ecolab became a member of RE100, the 
global corporate renewable energy initiative bringing together businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity. As part of RE100, we are committed to using 100% renewable electricity by 2030.
 Science Based Targets Initiative
In 2019, Ecolab committed to developing science-
based climate action targets to support the transition 
to the low-carbon economy. These targets have been 
approved by the Science Based Targets initiative and 
were upgraded to align with the latest SBTi Corporate 
Net-Zero Standard.
 The Nature Conservancy 
In 2015, the Ecolab Foundation made a $2 million 
pledge to support The Nature Conservancy’s Securing and Restoring Water Sources Around the Globe initiative. Ecolab continued to support its partnership with The Nature Conservancy in 2021. UN Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate 
Ecolab became a signatory in 2012 to advance water security for businesses, ecosystems and communities. 
 Water Resilience Coalition
Ecolab co-founded the Water Resilience Coalition in 2020, an industry-driven, CEO-led initiative of the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate that aims to elevate global water stress to the top of the corporate agenda and preserve the world’s freshwater resources through collective action in water-stressed basins and ambitious, quantifiable commitments. 
 WateReuse Association 
Ecolab became a member in 2019 to shape, advance 
and promote the national movement for water 
reuse in the United States.
 Water.org
In 2020, Ecolab announced a partnership with  
Water.org to help enable access to sustainable water and improved sanitation in at-risk watersheds in India. 
 World Resources Institute’s (WRI) 
Aqueduct Alliance
As a member since 2015, Ecolab engages WRI to stay at the forefront of thought leadership in water stewardship.
20
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  | OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
The Ecolab team operates with a strong commitment to integrity, innovation, sustainability and social 
responsibility. We always strive for the best results for our customers and our company, and in 2021, were recognized by several leading organizations for our commitment to operating responsibly and sustainably.
A World’s Most E thical Company
For the 15th consecutive yea r, Ecolab was named one of the 
W
orld’s Most E thical Companies b y th e Ethisphere Institute.
A Leading Corporate Citizen
F
or the eighth consecutive yea r, Ecolab ranked in the top 10 on 3BL 
Media’s list o f Best C orporate Citizens, placing eighth in 2021.
A World’s Most A dmired Company
For the seventh consecutive yea r, Ecolab was named to F ortune’s 
list o f the World’s Most A dmired Companies.
A Most Responsible Company
F
or the second consecutive yea r, Ecolab was named to Newsweek’s 
list of America’s Most R esponsible Companies, ranking 42nd on the 
2021 list.
A Most Just C ompany
Ecolab was named one of America’s Most Ju st  Companies b y 
F
orbes, ranking 22nd on the 2021 list.
A Global Leader in Sustainability
Ecolab was named to the 2021 Dow Jones SustainabilityTM World 
and North America Indices, which tracks leading sustainability-
driven public companies.
A Leader in Climate and Water Security
Ecolab was recognized on CDP’s A-Lists for its efforts to combat 
climate change and protect water security, and was named to 
CDP’s Supplier Engagement Leaderboard.
A Leading Sustainability Company
For the seventh consecutive year, Ecolab achieved a P latinum 
E
coVadis Sustainability Rating, which places E c olab in the top 1% 
o
f sustainable companies.A Most Sustainable Company
For the fourth consecutive yea r, Ecolab was named to Barron’s 
list of the Most Sustainable Companies in the U.S., rank ing third 
on the 202 1 list.
A Leading ESG Company
For the seventh consecutive year, Ecolab was named to the 
FTSE4Good Index for its strong environmental, soci al an d 
governance practices.
A Top Company for Diversity
Ecolab was named a Top Company for Diversity by DiversityInc, 
ranking 34th on the leading assessmen t of diversity mana gement 
in corporate America.
A Leading Company for Gender Equality
Ecolab was named to Bloomberg’s 2021 Gender-Equality I ndex , 
which tracks the performance of public companies committed to 
supporting gender equality.
A Best Place to Work 
For the ninth consecutive yea r, Ecolab was named a Best Place to 
Work for LGBTQ+ Equality by the Human Rights Coalition for its 
perfect score on the Corporate Equality Index.
A Best Company for Families
Ecolab was named one of the 100 Best Companies of 2021 for 
its commitment to inclusive benefits for families by Seramount  
(formerly Working Mother Media).
A Best Company to Sell For
For the sixth consecutive yea r, Ecolab was named a Best  
Compa ny to Sell For by Selling Power Magazine, rank ing 20 th on 
the 2021 list.
21 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |22
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |
ENVIRONMENT
We’re Partners 
for Progres s
  
As the world grapples with the effect
s of a global pandemic, 
we continue to face the most pressing environmental issues 
ever facing humankind. The need to address climate change 
and water scarcity has grown more urgent than ever before. 
Continued population growth, rising consumption, changing diets, 
public health crises and other dynamics are placing increased 
pressure on the world’s natural resources and creating new and 
progressively more complex challenges for businesses. 
And it is increasingly clear that the window for action is 
limited, and it is time to move from commitments to   
measurable action and demonstrable progress.  
Ecolab is in a unique position to help address 
the global trends shaping the future of 
business while protecting people, 
planet and business health. OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ENVIRONMEN TAL MANAGEMENT 
Approach
Alongside our sustainable impact with customers, 
we are committed to making a difference in our own 
operations. Our sustainability leadership has long 
been rooted in our enterprise-wide commitment to 
operational efficiency and environmental stewardship. 
Ecolab’s Global Safety Health & Environmental 
Position and Sustainability Position formalize 
our commitment to excellence in global safety, 
health and environmental (SHE) practices and 
performance. These commitments extend past our 
own operations to our suppliers and contractors and 
are foundational to our work with our customers. Our 
Board of Directors’ SHE Committee has oversight 
responsibility for Ecolab’s SHE programs and the 
SHE Position is executed through our internal SHE 
management system, which is implemented at all 
global facilities. In addition to meeting the Ecolab 
SHE Management System requirements, 57% of 
our plants have achieved International Organization 
for Standardization (ISO) 14001 – Environmental 
Management Systems certification. Moreove r, 30% 
of our sites are Occupational Health and Safety 
Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 or ISO 45001 
certified and 72% of our manufacturing sites have 
external certification to ISO 9001 standards. 
Governance 
While the full Board of Directors monitors Ecolab’s 
progress on sustainability, the Safety, Health and 
Environment (SHE) Committee of the Board has the 
highest level of responsibility for all sustainability 
matters, including climate- and water-related issues. 
This Committee's materials are available to the 
Board, and  this Committee reports to the Board at 
least  annually on the company’s implementation of 
and progress against its goals. Our Senior Vice 
President and Chief Sustainability Officer leads 
Ecolab’s Corporate Sustainability program and 
monitors risks, opportunities and performance 
related to climate change and water.Performance
Our environmental performance achievements are the 
result of enterprise- and facility-level commitments to 
incre
ase the efficienc y of our op
erations thr ough actions 
and investments that result in greater environmental 
stew
ardship. Through o
ur Create and Maintain Value 
program, we employ our expertis
e and technology to 
continually find more way
s to deliver strong business 
results while saving w
ater
, energy and wastewater and 
prolonging equipment life thr
oughout our f
acilities. We 
do this with an eye for how our i
mpact extends beyond 
our operations to local people and communities. 
Third-Party Inventories Veri fication 
Our global Scope 1, 2 and 3 (business travel only) 
GHG emissions are verified by a third party, APEX 
Companies LLC, using the ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse 
Gases - Part 3 specification standard. Additionally, 
we verify our global water withdrawal, water 
replenishment projects
, NOx and SOx emissions, 
volatile organic compounds emissions, hazardous 
air pollutants emissions and hazardous waste 
volume through APEX Companies LLC using the 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000 Revised. CLEAN REVENUE 
Ecolab defines “clean revenue” as revenue from 
product and service offerings that deliver a clear and significant social or environmental benefit. While there is currently no generally accepted standard for quantifying clean revenue, we have sought to align with reputable external standards where possible. 
For 2021, our clean revenue total includes: 
1.
Revenue from water-saving t
echnologies within our
Global Industrial and Global Institutional divisions.Our water-saving technologies deliver meaningfulimprovements in use-phase resource efficiency asdefined by the Sustainability Accounting StandardsBoard (SASB) Chemicals Standard.
2.
 Revenue from wastewat
er treatment technologies
within our Global Industrial division. Our wastewatertreatment technologies protect watersheds andenable our customers to meet the most stringentwater quality requirements.
3.
Products certified by third parties such as Gr
een
Seal, Nordic Swan, EU Ecolabel and EPA SaferChoice, which deliver clear environmental and/orsocial benefits relative to the typical market product.
Using these criteria, we have determined that 64% of our 2021 revenue can be considered clean. We believe this is a conservative estimate. As we continue to improve our clean revenue methodology and data collection systems to capture the full breadth of environmental and social value that our products and services deliver across our key impact areas of water, climate, food and health, we expect our clean revenue figure to increase in future years.In 2021, we invested over $1.2 
million in continuous improvement projects focused on water and energy reductions at over 20 of our facilities across the globe. In all, these projects reduced total energy consumption by almost 5.4 billion BTUs, reduced GHG emissions by 324 MT CO
2e and saved 27 million gallons 
(~103,000 cubic meters) of water across our global footprint.
23 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
CLIM ATE 
Footprint
Ecolab recognizes that climate 
change po
se
s potential risks and 
creates potential opportunities for 
our organization, customers and 
communities. As a company with global 
manufacturing operations, we actively 
seek to make a positive impact on our 
world’s climate through responsible 
processes. In addition to managing 
our operational and supply chain 
sustainability performance, we realize 
the largest impact we can make is in 
partnering with customers at more 
than three million customer locations 
around the world.
Ecolab is unique in that its value 
proposition for customers has, for 
nearly a century , been to fundamentally 
improve their sustainabilit y. Our 
products are designed to provide not 
only the best performance for our 
broad range of customers, but to do so 
by optimizing environmental resources, 
and delivering wate r, energy and waste 
reductions. Through our work, we 
have an impact on customers’ water 
and energy use and reducing their 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
See the ESG Performance Data 
Appendix for more information on our 
carbon emissions. ECOLAB’S GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS FOOTPRINT
63.41%
25.40%
4.99%
2.23%
1.41%
1.08%
0.61%
0.45%
0.43%
0.01 %Purchased Goods and Services  
Use of Sold Products 
Downstream Transportation 
Upstr
eam Transport
Fuel-and Energy-Related Activities 
Employe e Commuting
Capital Goods
Business Travel
Waste Generated in Operations
End of L
ife of S
old ProductsTotal GHG
Emissions3.6%
Scope 10.6%
Scope 2Our enterprise operational (scope 1 & 2) climate footprint is low relative to industry peers. We have established 
science-based carbon goals to reduce absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
SCOPES EXPLAINED95.7%
Scope 3
Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1
Direct emissions from owned or 
controlled sources or activities. Examples include company-owned vehicles or on-site fuel combustion.Indirect emissions from all other activities across the value chain, both upstream and downstream. Examples of upstream activities include purchased goods and services, business travel and employee commuting. Downstream examples include electricity customers consume using sold products, and transportation and distribution. Indirect emissions from purchased electricity or heat sources.
24 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
CLIM ATE 
Approach
Ecolab’
s Climat
e Change Position formalizes our 
global commitment to the transition to a cle
an 
energy economy by identifying opportunities for 
our company, suppliers and customers to reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and transparently 
report climate-related information to stakeholders. 
We are committed to continuous efforts to reduce 
GHG emissions in our own operations and product 
innovation processes, have committed to aligning 
with UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 13 to 
“Take urgent action to combat climate change and its 
impacts” and are a supporter of the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
Our Journey to Net-Zero by 2050
Ecolab has a long history of reducing or improving 
our environmental and social impact within our 
own facilities and operations as well as through the 
solutions we deliver with our customers. Always 
striving to do bette r, we continually set and achieve 
bold environmental performance goals that align with 
our business strategy as we continue to decouple 
resource use from growth. 
Ecolab defines net-zero in alignment with the 
Science-Based Tar
gets initiative (SBTi) as achieving 
value chain decarbonization in line with a 1.5˚C 
pathway and neutralizing residual emissions with an 
equivalent volume of permanent carbon removal. 
OUR JOURNEY TO NET-ZERO 
2004
20122015
20192020 2022
Reported on 
sustainability 
efforts for the 
first time in 
a standalone 
sustainability 
reportSurpassed our 
2012 emissions 
reduction goal by 
>110%
Announced 
goal to reduce 
greenhouse gas 
emissions by 10% 
per million dollars 
in sales by 2020 
from a 2015 base 
yearReleased goals 
approved by the  
Science Based
Targets initiative 
(SBTi)Joined the UN
Global Compact’s
Business Ambition
for 1.5°CBegan piloting 
electric fleet vehicles 
in Europe and North 
AmericaAnnounced VPPA to 
source 100% of the 
electricity needs for 
European sites
Developing plans for 
net-zero pilot 
manufacturing sites in 
each major market
Partnering with  
CDP to expand supplier 
surveyingCommitting to achieve bold environmental performance goals that align with our business strategy as we 
continue to decouple resource use from growth.
25 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |Surpassed our 2020  
emissions reduction  
goal by >400%
Pledged to operate using 100% 
renewable electricity by 2030
Operationalized virtual power 
purchasing agreement (VPAA) to 
cover 100% of electricity use in 
North America2021
Comple ted de tailed 
TCFD-
aligned climate 
risk assessment and 
scenario analysis
Launched first supplier 
sustainability surveyOUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
CLIMATE  
Goals  
Ecolab joined the UN Global Compact’s Business 
Ambition for 1.5ºC committing to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 50% by 2030 and achieve net-zero across our value chain by 2050. We have committed to achieving 100% renewable electricity by 2030 through the RE100 initiative and have also set a science-based target (SBT) addressing our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions which was approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). 
Ecolab has upgraded its net-zero goal to align with the 
latest SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard, committing to:•
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50%from a 2018 base year b
y 2030
•Reach net-zero emissions across our value chainwhile reducing absolut
e Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
by 90% from a 2018 base year by 2050
•Work with suppliers representing 70% of Scope3 emissions (cov
ering purchased goods and
services, capital goods, upstream transportationand distribution, business travel, and downstreamtransportation and distribution) to set similarlyambitious carbon targets aligned with the science-based target methodology by 2024
And we are helping customers become carbon neutral by reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 6 million metric tons by 2030, preventing nearly  10 million pollution-related illnesses. 2018
2019
2020
2021
2050 Goal
M 10M 8M8,733,980 313,301
319,180
281,241
282,199146,754
149,995
53,885
48,800
6M 4M 2M
Metric tons CO2eScope 3Scope 2Scope 1‘18
Metric tons CO2e
200,000
0400,000600,000
‘19 ‘20 ‘21 ‘22 ‘23 ‘24 ‘25 ‘26 ‘27 ‘28 ‘29 2030 goalBusiness as Usual
1.5°C Scenario ConsistentALIGNMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT AGAINST A 1.5˚C PATHWAY
EMISSIONS ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAINWe are doing our part to limit global warming to 1.5˚C above pre-industrial levels. We are 
committed to reducing absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% by 2030 and are ahead of pace.
Using a 2018 base year, we are committed to reducing all value chain emissions – Scope 1, 2 and 3 – by 
90% to help us achieve net-zero by 2050.
90% ReductionReaching 
net-zero by 
2050Using 100% 
renewable 
electricity 
by 2030Reducing 
Scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 
50% by 2030Actual Target
8,383,727
7,688,530WE HAVE COMMITTED TO:
(base year)
7,437,488
26 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
CLIMATE  
Making Measurable Progress
To meet our ambitious goals, we utilize a 
combination of tactics in line with science-based strategies. This means:•
Increasing energy efficiency to reduce emissionswithin our manufacturing and business operations
•
Utilizing renewable electricity sources
•Electrifying our fleet of service vehicles
•Partnering with suppliers to reduce their emissions
•Evolving our Scope 3 accounting tools andmethodology to shift away from an economic-bas
ed
allocation method
•Continuing to develop innovative programs thatreduce water and energy use f
or our customers
•Uniting with external partners on nature-basedsolutions to combat climate change and waterscarcity.
The combination of these efforts has put us ahead of 
pace as we do our part to limit global warming to 
1.5˚C above pre-industrial levels. We do not currently 
purchase carbon offsets nor have short-term plans to 
do so. Increasing Energy Efficiency 
Ecolab is actively expanding energy efficiency projects at Ecolab sites across the globe and identifying net-zero pilot facilities in strategic markets. In 2021, we focused on continuous progress within our operations, completing process improvement projects that reduced total energy consumption by almost 5.4 billion BTUs and GHG emissions by 324 MT CO
2e. 
Several of our manufacturing sites have captured significant energy reductions through targeted projects. For example, our plant in Garyville, Louisiana installed an automated condensate return system which resulted in substantial energy savings of 3.8 billion BTUs. Boiler automation systems at our facilities in Shika, Japan and Lerma, Mexico saved over 430 million BTUs combined and several other facilities have reduced energy use through more efficient seasonal processes and procedures.
In 2021, we made progress toward our 2030 goals by 
reducing absolute Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 28% from a 2018 base year. To maintain our momentum, we are completing decarbonization audits at large US-based manufacturing sites and creating an energy optimization playbook for global manufacturing sites.STRONG MOMENTUM ON 
SCOPES 1 AND 2
Using a 2018 base year, we are committed to 
reducing absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% by 2030. In 2021, we reduced carbon emissions by 28% from a 2018 base year.   
56% 
Progress  
toward goal
20180Metric tons Co2e
(base year)200,000400,000600,000
2019 2020 2021 2030 Goal
Target Actual50%
Reduction460,055 469,175
335,12 6 330,999
27 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
CLIM ATE 
Utilizing Renewable Electricity 
W
e are c
ontinuing to partner with renewable energy 
producers in global markets to source renewable 
electricity for our facilities and exploring more 
opportunities for renewable energy applications, 
renewable energy certificates and renewable 
subscriptions. We currently partner with renewable 
energy producer Clearway Energy Group on our 
virtual power purchasing agreement (VPPA) to cover 
100% of Ecolab’s annual electricity use in the United 
States and Canada. 
And in 2022, we announced our partnership with asset 
management firm Low Carbon on a VPPA 
to source 
100% of the e
lectricity needs for our European sites 
from the Mörknässkogen wind farm on t
he west coast 
of Finland. 
Combined, the two agr
eements allow us to source 
nearly 80% of our electric power from renewable 
sources. In 20
21, 69% of our total electricity usage 
was considered renewable se
tting us well on our 
way to achieve our goal of using 100% renewable 
electricity by 2030.Electrifying our Vehicle Fleet
In 2021, Ecolab piloted vehicle fleet electrification projects in Europe and North America. The results of the initial pilots support an expanded test of up to 400% more electric vehicles in 2022, subject to vehicle availability. The rate of expansion of electric vehicles within our fleet will be significantly influenced by public charging infrastructure, battery range and cold weather performance improvements, as well as the number and types of models available to support the diverse needs of our fleet drivers. In 2021, 69% of our 
total electricity usage 
was considered 
renewable.PROGRESS ON RENEWABLE 
ELECTRICITY
Our goal is to use 100% renewable electricity by 
2030. In 2021, 69% of our total electricity usage was considered renewable. GJ
2030 Goal 2020 20191,212,926
20210.0M0.2M0.4M0.6M0.8M1.0M1.2M1.4M
125,3011,156,904
791,233 783,3101,130,801100% 
Renewable 
electricity
Total Electricity Use Renewable Electricity Use69% 
Progress  
toward goal
28 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
CLIMATE  
Partnering with Suppliers on Scope 3 Emissions 
In 2021, Ecolab launched our first supplier 
sustainability survey to over 400 different suppliers 
to assess their current carbon and water reduction 
targets. Through this process, we found that 
suppliers accounting for 25% of Scope 3 emissions 
covering purchased goods and services, and 
downstream transportation have set, or are in the 
process of setting, science-based targets. Overall, 
suppliers who have already set science-based targets 
account for 6.5% of Scope 3 emissions (covering 
purchased goods and services, capital goods, 
upstream transportation and distribution, business 
travel, and downstream transportation and 
distribution).
In 2022, Ecolab i s p
artnering with C DP Supply Chain 
to drive increased response f rom o
ur supplier b
ase 
and ascertain additional data w
hich will be i
ntegrated 
in future years into our Scope 3  reporting 
m
ethodology. 
Evolving our Scope 3 Reduction Strategies
We are working t
o transform our Scope 3 
accounting tools and methodology t o shift away 
from an economic-based allocation method to allow 
us to decouple Scope 3  emissions reporting from 
business growth. This will also help us u
nderstand 
our supply chain emissions hot spots and monitor 
and incentivize supplier c limate progress as w
e 
strive to reduce our Scope 3  emissions in l
ine 
with a 1.5˚C pathway. We have additional projects 
underway to develop formal strategies to address 
the Scope 3 emissions generated by the use of  
sold products. 
*Suppliers representing Scope 3 emissions covering purchased goods and services, capital goods, upstream transportation and distribution, business 
travel, and downstream transportation and distributionADVANCEMENT ON SCOPE 3 TARGETS
We are working with suppliers to set ambitious carbon targets aligned with the science-based target 
methodology by 2024. 
20216.5%% of Suppliers*
202470%
020406080
9% 
Progress 
toward goal
29 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
30 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |OUR REACH GOES FAR BEYOND OUR OWN OPERATIONS
Our climate impact is multiplied through the work we do with our customers. The positive 
contribution our solutions and expertise have on our customers’ GHG emissions is over 10 times that of our own annual footprint (Scope 1 and 2 emissions).CLIMATE  
Advancing our customers’ resilience to climate change 
We are helping customers become carbon neutral by reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 6 million metric 
tons by 2030, preventing nearly 10 million pollution-related illnesses. 
This is accomplished through utilization of many of Ecolab’s innovative products and services that help 
customers reduce energy use. We continue to innovate with an eye toward a low carbon future: In 2021, we helped customers save 3.6 million metric tons of  
GHG emissions, preventing 5.8 million pollution-related illnesses. 
Over 66% of new technologies launched in 2021  contributed to positive energy and carbon impacts. 
Our Impact with 
Customers
Our Footprint 331,000 MT CO 2e3,600,000 MT CO 2eCONTINUING TO DELIVER 
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
We are working with customers to avoid 6 
million metric tons by 2030, preventing nearly 10 million pollution-related illnesses. 
60% 
Progress  
toward goal
20180Million MT C02e
3.03.4 3.5 3.66.0
246
2019 2020 2021 2030 Goal
Target ActualOUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
CLIMATE SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Click through examples of our energy-savings technologies to learn more. Estimated energy and 
emissions savings for each application are based on a comparison with the historic performance of the 
technology replaced in the year the product was launched to market. Energy savings are also based on 
global sales data and business growth related to each energy-saving technology alongside industry-
specific assumptions. 
3D TRASAR™ Technology for Cooling Water
 The industry’s most advanced and  
broadly implemented solution for cooling  
water management
APEX™  
Machine warewashing  
program for 
foodservice industry NALCO Boiler Treatment Technology 
Comprehensive boiler water treatment solution to mitigate scale 
and corrosion of the boiler system
Pure Comfort™  
Mineral Program 
Pool and spa program to  
maintain a balanced water 
profile for swimmersSanitizing Wash ‘N Walk 
Cleaner and sanitizer 
that provides total 
management  
of floors and drains in  
institutional settingsSMARTPOWER™ 
Foodservice 
warewashing  
program that combines  
innovative chemistry 
with expert service
OxyGuard™ 40 
Low-temperature 
laundry program for 
commercial laundriesPARETO™ Mixing  
Technology 
Optimizes delivery of  
process chemicals for 
paper manufacturing
Aquanomic™ 
Low-temperature laundry program for on-premise laundriesHVAC Performance Services 
Programs, equipment and services to ensure HVAC efficiency3D TRASAR™ Technology  
for Membranes 
Total care RO offering for membrane 
applicationsAdvantisTM FC Program  
Low-temperature foam, spray and soak cleaning solution 
for food and beverage processing equipment
31 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
CLIM ATE 
S
trategy and Risk Management  
Climate-related issues are monitored by the CEO and 
Senior Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer 
through our annual enterprise risk assessment, 
biannual sustainability materiality assessment, ethical 
and environmental standards survey of performance 
in the global supply chain and quarterly management 
meetings with the Sustainability Executive Advisory 
Team (SEAT) and the Corporate Sustainability 
team. Climate-related risks are assessed within our 
Enterprise Risk Management process and annual 
Business Significance Risks Assessment, which is 
aligned with recommendations of the Financial 
Stability Board (FSB ) Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
Various laws and regulations pertaining to climate 
change have been implemented, or are being considered 
f
or implementation, at the international, national, 
r
egional and state levels, parti cularly as they relate to 
the production of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. None 
of these laws and regulations directly apply to Ecolab 
at the present time, however, as a matter of corporate 
polic
y, we support a balanced approach to reducing GHG 
emissions while sustaining economic growth.Climate-Related Disclosures
To demonstrate Ecolab’s resilience in the face 
of climate change to stakeholders, Ecolab has continued its climate-related risk and opportunity assessment in 2021 in alignment with best practices of the TCFD. Ecolab recognizes that climate change poses potential risks and creates potential opportunities to our organization. To address this, Ecolab has taken steps to further identify and assess the nature and magnitude of these risks and opportunities. The results of the analysis are currently being reviewed so that adaptation and mitigation plans can be developed for relevant climate change risks and to further benefit from identified opportunities.
The threats and opportunities associated with 
climate change are dynamic in nature. It is a long-term and uncertain phenomenon which requires a response that considers how future risks and opportunities interact with business timescales as they evolve. To best respond to climate risks and opportunities, Ecolab is including climate-related matters across governance, strategy and risk management processes. This work includes defining climate-related key performance indicators and improving data collection and management to better inform scenario analyses and understand the true scale of the potential financial impacts from climate change on Ecolab.
We have taken steps to further identify and assess 
the nature and magnitude of these risks and opportunities. Ecolab has been focused on assessing climate risks for the past three years, leading up to our TCFD-aligned climate risk assessment conducted in 2021. We will continue our efforts to assess additional climate-related risks and opportunities, including exploring our supply chain resiliency. We will also review the results of our 2021 analysis and develop adaptation and management plans for any relevant climate change risks and to further benefit from identified opportunities for customer impact.
We report TCFD disclosures, including a description 
of our climate-related risks and opportunities, in our annual CDP Climate Change Report .  
See the Reporting Reference Tables and Indexes Appendix for more information on our climate progress aligned with TCFD. 
32 ECOLAB CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
WATER 
Footprint
The World Resources Institute projects that under a 
business-as-usual scenario, the world will face a 56% 
freshwater deficit by 2030, placing urgent pressure on 
businesses to rethink the way water resources are 
managed. And it’s undeniable that water will continue to be 
one of the primary ways our world experiences climate 
change, a fact that was underscored by the latest 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) climate 
report, which highlighted water stress as the biggest source 
of climate-related physical risk to industry today. We cannot 
address and adapt to climate change without considering 
the role water plays.
As a company with deep expertise in water management, 
and in-depth understanding of the issues facing companies 
across industries, Ecolab helps businesses around the world 
achieve ambitious water conservation goals by 
doing more with less – improving the heating and cooling, 
industrial processing, wastewater treatment and cleaning 
and sanitizing processes. Each year, we help our customers 
manage 1 trillion gallons of water in their operations. We 
employ innovative water technologies, real-time data and 
monitoring, water management software tools, water 
treatment services and chemistries to help customers 
implement industrial water conservation efforts to reduce 
freshwater use, reuse and recycle water to increase 
operational efficiency and reduce cost of operation, pretreat 
water to meet environmental discharge standards, treat 
water for public health and safety and to protect and 
prolong asset life. Our reach truly goes far beyond our own 
operations as Ecolab solutions and expertise reduce water 
use at customer sites by over 120 times than that of our 
own annual water withdrawal footprint. 
We are committed to helping all water users better 
understand, evaluate and take action to mitigate their 
water-related risks to ensure the availability of the world’s 
fresh water supply for future generations. Although our 
direct operations are not water intensive, having quality 
freshwater is vital to our operations, as we depend on the 
use of water to deliver our primary products and services to 
customers. 33 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
WATER  
Approach
Our Water Stewardship Position formalizes our 
global commitment to undertake responsible water stewardship by identifying opportunities for our company and customers to use water resources in a manner that benefits business, communities and the environment. 
We believe in the importance of water in protecting 
the environment, human health and economic development in our local communities. Through our stewardship, we aim to identify and support opportunities for our company and customers to use water resources in ways that are socially and culturally equitable, economically beneficial and environmentally sustainable.
We are committed to upholding the principles of 
water stewardship within our own operations in alignment with the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) Standard, have committed to aligning with UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 6 to “Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all” and have endorsed the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate.
Our Journey to Positive Water Impact by 2030
Our robust water stewardship strategy allows companies, including ourselves, to manage risk, build resilience and create business value now, and in years to come. We have a long history of working across industry, alongside non-governmental organizations (NGOs), non-profits and community groups to act on emerging and urgent water issues.  
With unmatched expertise in water conservation, quality and management programs and solutions, 
we’re driven to advance efficient operations and responsible growth.OUR JOURNEY TO ACHIEVING A POSITIVE WATER IMPACT
2004
20062010
20122014
2015Reported on 
sustainability 
efforts for the 
first time in 
a standalone 
sustainability 
reportBegan reporting
annually to CDP
Water Security 
survey
Became a founding  
partner of the 
Alliance for Water 
Stewardship 
StandardReleased the Water Risk 
Monetizer in partnership 
with S&P Trucost and 
Microsoft
Began engaging with The 
Nature Conservancy and 
Project WET Foundation to 
fund water conservation 
efforts around the worldBecame a signatory 
of the UN Global 
Compact CEO 
Water MandateReceived the 
first ever AWS 
certification
for Ecolab’s Taicang, 
China facility
2019
Introduced the Smart 
Water Navigator
Became a member of 
the WateReuse 
Association2021
Enhanced the Smart
Water Navigator
Created an internal process 
network to share water
efficiency expertise and best 
practices
Helped fund landmark
conservation effort to shore 
up Lake MeadEstablished site-level 
annual water goals
2022Pursuing AWS-
certification for 
sites in high-risk
watersheds
Expanding water
replenishment 
ef
forts across the 
Western U.S.
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       | 34Surpassed our 2020 water 
impact goal by almost 20%
Co-founded the Water 
Resilience Coalition
2020
Released 2030 Impact Goal 
to achieve a positive water 
impact
Announced partnership 
with Water.orgOUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
WATER  
Goals
Our vision of a water-resilient future relies on tangible 
action. For Ecolab, that means continuing to drive corporate water management with our customers, while also identifying opportunities to implement water stewardship projects in our own operations.
Our sights are set toward our 2030 Impact Goal to 
further expand our positive water impact in our own operations to:•
Reduce water impact by 40% per unit productionacross our en
terprise from a 2018 base year
•Restore greater than 50% of our abs
olute water
withdrawal volume at high-risk sites
•Achieve Alliance for Water Stew
ardship (AWS)
Standard certification in high-risk watersheds
Making Measurable Progress
As part of these commitments, Ecolab has prioritized water stewardship projects at our sites with an aim to improve the overall health of the local watersheds. Our projects use a three-pathway strategy to achieve a net-positive water impact by:1.
Increasing water-use efficiency, r
euse and recycling
using Ecolab solutions and digital technologies
2. Protecting local watersheds
3. Delivering outcomes through AWS certification
Increasing Water-Use Efficienc y,  
Reuse and Recycling
Managing 1 trillion gallons of water annually, Ecolab’s 
team of expert s is skilled in helping customer s identify 
and implement water reduction, reuse and recycle 
solutions that support watersheds in the locations 
where we operate. We utilize this same expertise 
within our own operations to optimize water use. 
Through Ecolab solutions like 3D TRASAR™, 
Water Flow Intelligence and digital tools like the 
Smart Water Navigator , we support smart water 
management practices to reduce demand and improve water quality while optimizing costs at the 
facility and organizational level. In 2021, we delivered 
on projects resulting in approximately 27 million 
gallons (~103,000 cubic meters) of water savings.
One example of this work is the design of a new 
wastewater treatment station at our production 
facility in Châlons-en-Champagne, France. The new 
wastewater treatment station uses water reuse 
technology supported by Nalco Wate r, Ecolab’s water 
and process management business, to reduce water 
discharge to the city sewer network by almost 80%. 
The treatment system may allow the facility to reuse 
up to 20 million gallons (~78,000 cubic meters) of 
water each yea r. 
Additionally in 2021, smart water valves were 
installed at key manufacturing sites, with additional 
valves to be inst
alled at several other locations in 
2022. Thes
e valves help increase accuracy of water 
meter readings
, resulting in water savings. In 2021, 
these initiatives sa
ved over 5.2 million gallons 
(~20,000 cubic mete
rs) of water at the facilities 
that installed them.
Numerous production sites implement
ed reverse 
osmosis water reuse projects in 2021, resulting in over 
1.3 million gallons (~5,000 cubic meters) of annual 
water savings. 
In support of water efficiency actions across our 
global supply chain, a horizontal process network 
shares expertise and best practices across sites. This 
included the introduction of a water management tool 
in 2021 to guide facility teams on water reduction, 
reuse and recycling methods. 
Because of these actions and others, in 2021, we 
reduced overall w
ater impact intensity (cubic meters / 
MT of product produced) by 25% from a 2018 base 
year. 
For more detailed water data, see the ESG  
Performance Data Appendix. DELIVERING A POSITIVE 
WATER IMPACT
Our aim is to reduce our overall water impact by 
40% per unit production across our enterprise by 2030. In 2021, we reduced water impact intensity by 25% from a 2018 base year.    
20180.00Water Impact Intensity 
(cubic meters / MT)
(base year)1.002.003.00
2019 2020 2021 2030 Goal
Target Actual2.732.362.31
40%
Reduction2.0562% 
Progress  
toward goal
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021   | 35OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
WATER 
Protecting Local Watersheds
Watersheds face a variet
y of risks, including water 
scarcity and water quality, accelerating impacts of 
climate change and loss of local species. Ecolab 
collabor
ates w ith nonprofits and nongo
vernmental 
organizations to advance new solutions and 
st
andards for responsible water management, a nd 
to build a
wareness of
 the environment al impacts 
of industry. We also w ork with partner
s within the 
local water basins in which we operate to understand 
shared water challenges a nd work to address them 
with nature-based solutions. 
Funded through the Ecolab F
oundation, our Solutions 
for Life pr
ogram enhances our mission to conserve 
water and improve hygiene around the world through 
collaborations with non-governmental organizations 
(NGOs), global philanthropy and employee 
volunteerism.•The Nature Conservancy
•Project WET F
oundation
•Water.org
•Bonneville Environmental Foundation
We work collectively on shared water challenges as a:
•Founding member of the Alliance for Water
Stewardship (AWS) International Water Stewardship
Standard 
•Founding member of the Water Resilience Coalition
through the UN CEO Water Mandate
• Member of the California Water Action
Collaborative
In 2021, we restored 34% of our absolute water 
withdrawal at high-risk sites through water efficiency 
and replenishment projects. 
For more detailed water data, see the ESG  
Performance Data Appendix. 
20180.0MCubic Meters Water
Target1M 0.99M
0.66M0.84M
50% 
Reduction
Actual1.2M
1.0M
0.8M
0.6M
0.4M
0.2M
2019 2020 2021 2030 GoalRESTORING WATER IN OUR 
COMMUNITIES 
By 2030, we strive to restore greater than 50% 
of our absolute water withdrawal at high-risk 
sites. In 2021, we restored 34% of water 
withdrawal a
t these sites through water 
efficiency and replenishment projects.
68% 
Progress  
toward goalThrough Solutions for Life, Ecolab has supported the 
work of several global nonprofit partners including:
36 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
With urgent action, the world’s water crises can 
be alleviated. But corporations must take action 
to reduce the amount of water they consume 
in their operations. Identifying inefficiencies in 
water usage and making changes to help optimize 
operations leads to real progress on water-related 
sustainability goals – from the enterprise level to 
individual facilities. 
And while reducing water use is an important 
step, it’s not the only one. It is critical that 
businesses reach outside their facilities to work 
with those who share the same w
ater resources  
and strive to ensur
e water availability, quality and 
access for all.
We’re working to bring this work to life through 
our co-founding membership in the Water 
Resilience Coalition, an initiative of the UN Global 
Compact’s CEO Water Mandate.
The Water Resilience Coalition, founded in 202
0, 
is an industry-driven, CEO-led coalition that aims to elevate global water stress to the top of 
the corporate agenda and preserve the world’s freshwater resources through collective action in water-stressed basins and ambitious, quantifiable commitments.
What that means for Ecolab is that, in addition to 
working to help our customers enable proactive water management in their operations, we’re making progress on the goals we’ve set for our own facilities as well. 
We’ve approached these goals through key 
partnerships with other companies in the Water Resilience Coalition and with public organizations like the California Water Action Collaborative (CWAC), a network for diverse stakeholders pursuing collective action projects that will improve California’s water security for people, business, agriculture and nature.
We’ve also contributed to Water.org to enable 
access to sustainable drinking water and improved 
sanitation for 100,000 people living in poverty in 
India, while contributing more than 26.4 million 
gallons (100,
000 cubic meters) of water per year 
to watershed health in extremely high-stress  
river b
asins in which Ecolab operates, including 
Chennai, Mumbai, Konnaga r, Delhi, Baroda, 
Jamshedpur, Kolkata and Pune. 
These types o
f partnerships help us ext
end beyond 
the environmental benefits of reducing water use. 
By restoring the health of local watersheds, we can 
work to ensure that communities around the globe 
have equitable access to freshwater: a building 
block to healthy life that nobody should be denied. CREATING A FUTURE WITH AMPLE WATER FOR ALL 
Nearly two-thirds of all 
water consumption goes 
toward corporate supply 
chains.1
FOR MORE INFORMATION
 Water Resilience Coalition 
 California Water Action Collaborative 
 Water.org 1The Nature Conservancy
37 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |
UN Global Compact
World's largest corporate sustainability initiative
CEO Water Mandate
Water stewardship initiative of the UN Global Compact
Water Resilience Coalition
Leadership platform of the CEO Water Mandate
OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
WATER 
Delivering Outcomes through AWS Certification 
As a founding partner of the Alliance for Water  
Stewardship (AWS), Ecolab is committed to sustainable 
water use in our facilities and collaboration with other 
businesses at the local level. Since 2010, Ecolab has 
dedicated resources, expertise and practical application 
of principles to assist in the development, launch 
and implementation of the AWS International Water 
Stewardship Standard, a globally consistent and locally 
adaptable framework to promote sustainable freshwater 
use. The objective of the AWS Standard is to drive water 
stewardship, which we define as the use of water that i s 
socially and culturally equitable, environmentally 
sustainable and economically bene
ficial, achieved 
through a stakeholder-inclusive process that involves 
site- and catchment-based actions.
The Alliance for Water Stewardship certification 
requires collaboration with other local businesses in the 
watershed. All Ecolab facilities that received certification 
worked with other users in the same watershed to drive 
collective action on water stewardship. 
In 2021, we increased our portfolio of AWS-certified 
sites to six, adding two manufacturing plants in Lerma 
and Cuautitlán Izcalli, Mexico. We also received the 
first-ever platinum-certified facility in Taicang, China. 
Ecolab’s T
aicang facility is a zero-process liquid 
discharge plant and has reduced its water use 
intensity by 40% since its original AWS certification.
Thanks to steps taken during the AWS certification 
process and Ecolab’s own water-saving technologies, 
including 3D TRASARTM Technology, these facilities: 
PROGRESS TOWARD OUR GOAL TO ACHIEVE AWS 
CERTIFICATIONS IN HIGH-RISK WATERSHEDS
27% 
Progress 
toward goal
0Number of Sites AWS-Certified in 
High-Risk Watersheds
City of Industry, California
Annual water savings of 4.3 million gallons (~16,000 m
3)
Cuautitlán Izcalli
Annual water savings of 760,000 
gallons (~2,900 m3)
Garyville, Louisiana
Annual water savings of 42 million gallons (~160,000 m
3)
Carson, CaliforniaAnnual water savings of 550,000 gallons (~2,100 m
3)Lerma, MexicoAnnual water savings of 950,000 gallons (~3,600 m
3)Taicang, ChinaAnnual water savings of 1.2 million gallons (~4,600 m
3)415
51015
Save a combined total of almost 
50 million gallons (~190,000 cubic meters) of water annually, which is equivalent to the annual drinking water needs of more than 172,000 people. Ecolab sites in high-risk 
watersheds that are planning to pursue AWS certification by 2030Ecolab AWS-certified sitesWe have achieved AWS certification at six of our facilities, four of which are located in high-risk watersheds. 
The recent certification of two facilities in Mexico moves Ecolab to more than 25% of its goal.
38 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
HELPING BUSINESSES ACHIEVE 
RESILIENCE WITH THE SMART WATER NAVIGATOR    WATER  
Advancing Our Customers’ Resilience to  
Water Scarcity 
We provide innovative water technologies to help 
customers reduce, reuse and recycle water to help meet their water reduction goals. To do this, we take a data-driven approach to water management through a clear, four-step process:
1.
Identify: Understand and quantify w
ater-related
risks with Ecolab’s publicly available online tool,
the Ecolab Smart Water Navigator .
2. Target: Set meaningful t
argets and uncover water
savings opportunities through measuring and monitoring to gain real-time visibility into operationsat the enterprise, site and asset levels, frequentlyachieved through Water Flow Intelligence .
3.
 Implement: Take action to meet wat
er reduction
targets by leveraging solutions that offer visibilityinto the efficiency, quality and safety of water inoperations, most commonly accomplished usingEcolab’s 3D TRASAR
TM Technology .
4. Track: Track operational performance over timeand identify opportunities to optimize outcomesusing Ecolab3D™ IIOT Platform.
With this methodology, we are well on our way to 
our 2030 Impact Goal of conserving 300 billion 
gallons (~1.1 billion cubic meters) of water annually 
within our customers’ operations, equivalent to the 
annual drinking water needs of 1 billion people.As available freshwater decreases while demand 
increases, there’s more pressure than ever on businesses to reduce water use. The Smart Water Navigator is a publicly available online tool that helps businesses increase water resilience and support responsible growth by turning corporate water targets into real, on-the-ground results.
The tool, created by Ecolab in partnership with S&P 
Global Trucost and Microsoft, supports Ecolab’s broader mission to help industry reuse, recycle and reduce water, supporting growing operations and healthy communities.
Using the Smart Water Navigator, companies are able to:
•
Set clear targets and drive in
ternal accountability to
help reach them
•Optimize water use leading to more r
esilient
operations
•Build trust and credibility with stakeholders t
o drive
collective action on water issues
FOR MORE INFORMATION
 SmartWaterNavigator.com  
 Case Study: Building an Action Plan for Smart 
Water Management
 Working Paper: You’ve Set Corporate Water 
Goals. Now What?In 2021, we helped customer 
save 215 billion gallons (~800 million cubic meters) of water, equivalent to the drinking water needs of 743 million people. 72% 
Progress  
toward goal
20180Billion Gallons Water
Target188206 206215300
Actual100200300
2019 2020 2021 2030 GoalPROGRESS ON  
CUSTOMER IMPACT GOAL
We are working with  customers to con -
serve 300 billion  gallons (~1.1 bi llion 
cubic meters) of water annually by  2030, 
equivalent to the annual drinking wat er 
needs of more than 1  billion people.
39 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
WATER 
Strategy and Risk Management 
Our annual water risk assessment assesses 100% 
of our operations and is used to identify facilities 
that may operate within water-stressed regions 
and determine whether we have substantive water-
related risks. To date, we have not identified any 
inherent water-related risks with the potential to have 
a substantive financial or strategic impact on our 
business. For more information, please see our 2021  
CDP Water Security Report. 
Water Risk Assessment
Ecolab conducts an annual water risk assessment 
to identify facilities that ma
y operate within water 
stressed r
egions, both in the near- and long-
term. The analysis is based on c
ombining our 
operational water withdraw
al, effluent footprint 
and production metrics with water risk inputs and 
financial c
ost v
aluations from the Smart Water 
Navigator to inform decisions at an operational 
level. The Smart Water Navigator leverages 
leading, publicly available quantitative water 
risk datasets developed by the World Resources 
Institute and World Wildlife Fund.
Methodology Detail
In 20
21, our water risk assessment scope included 
100% of our direct operations. We assessed all 
company locations (including plants, offices, 
distribution, warehouses, flex/R&D and related 
facilities), representing 100% of our global 
withdrawal and effluent footprint. This list of facilities 
was assessed using a variety of risk criteria inputs 
provided by the World Resources Institute (WRI) 
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and insights available 
through the Ecolab Smart Water Navigator.
Results
Using GRI’s de
finition of water stress, 1 7.7% of 
Ecolab’s total water withdrawal is sourced from areas 
with “high” or “extremely high” current baseline water stress, as assessed using the WRI Aqueduct 
Water Risk Atlas. To further evaluate our water risk, we also assessed sites in these areas against the following risk criteria:•
Future baseline water str
ess is expected to remain
the same or increase (based on RCP 8.5 climatescenario to 2030 in WRI’s Aqueduct Water RiskAtlas)
•
Ten-year potential Re
venue at Risk is greater than
10% (based on the Smart Water Navigator tool)1
•Production intensity (i.e., the percentage of eachsites’ production out of tot
al production) is greater
than 1%
Based on these criteria, only two sites representing 4.8% of total production volume and 1.9% of total water withdrawal have been identified as operating in river basins where production may be affected by water risk. Both sites are working hard to mitigate this risk and are in scope of our 2030 Impact Goal to restore greater than 50% of water withdrawal and obtain AWS certification within high-risk watersheds. One of the sites, our City of Industry plant in California, obtained AWS certification in 2017. Furthermore, in 2021 we invested in a water replenishment project within City of Industry’s watershed, the Colorado River Indian Tribes Systems Conservation Project through partnership with the Bonneville Environmental Foundation, which compensates the Colorado River Indian Tribes for conserving Colorado River water and directly shoring up declining water levels in Lake Mead. Ecolab’s investment delivers a volumetric benefit of 19.2 million gallons (~73,000 cubic meters) per year over a 10-year period.
1 Revenue at risk compares the estimated amount of water a 
business requires to generate revenue (cubic meters per USD 
of revenue) to the business’ share of water available in the water basin if water was allocated among water users based on economic activity (contribution to basin-level GDP).
40 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
BIODIVERSITY AND ADAP TATION 
Approach
Ecolab’s sus
tainability efforts support protecting 
biodiversity by preserving quantity and quality of 
water in watersheds in which we and our customers 
operate and mitigating the impacts of climate change 
as critical factors in preserving endangered species. 
Our Biodiversity Position recognizes the importance 
of conserving biodiversity in support of our mission 
and formalizes our commitment.
Impact on Biodiversity and Habitats
Ecolab’s direct operations, activities, products and/
or services do not have a significant impact on 
biodiversity in protected areas or areas of high 
biodiversity value outside of protected areas. We are 
not aware of any operations that affect International 
Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) red-list 
species or national conservation list species. 
Of the sites evaluated, representing 80% of our 
manufacturing facilities, there are no locations within 
Key Biodiversit y Areas (KBAs ). 22 sites are within a 10-
mile radius of a KBA and eight of those are considered 
as part of our set of priority sites for water projects 
and have been, or will be going to work toward, 
Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) certification.
Habitats Protected or Restored
Ecolab continues to support its partnership with  
The Nature Conse
rvancy (TNC) securing and 
restoring envir
onments and water sources around 
the globe. We are a sponsor of TNC’s Urban Water 
Blueprint which analyz
es the st
ate of water in more 
than 2,000 watersheds and 530 cities worldwide to 
provide science-based recommendations to improve 
water quality. The following are region-specific 
examples of t he impacts we help with through our 
partnership w ith TNC. Minnesota Headwaters Fund | United States  
Ecolab was an initial funder of the work with TNC’s 
Minnesota Headwaters Fund, which began in 2014, to 
support high-impact conservation projects to protect 
clean water in Minnesota’s lake and rivers which has 
a ten-year goal to protect 100,000 acres and restore 
100,000 acres, impacting 1.4 million people. Ecolab 
funding has helped directly protect 759 acres and 
influenced the protection on 60,481 acres along 
99 miles of shoreline in the Upper Mississippi River 
watershed. In addition, 409 acres and 8,600 feet of 
shoreline have been restored. Most recently through 
our contribution, supply at the headwaters of the 
Mississippi River has increased by 16 million gallons 
(~61,000 cubic meters).
Monterrey Metropolitan Water Fund | Mexico
The Ecolab Foundation and TNC have built a 
productive collaboration around water security and 
since 2014 have restored and conserved over 293 
acres of land in the Cumbres de Monterrey National 
Park, which provides over 60% of the Monterrey 
metropolitan area’s water suppl y. These activities 
have been aimed at improving water filtration, 
regulating water flow, reducing flood risk and 
strengthening water security and climate resilience 
for communities in and around Monterre y. 
Furthermore, our collaboration has also produced 
a community t ree nursery that supplies t rees for 
restoring th e landscape a nd contributes to the 
livelihoods of  local farmers.  The nurser y, launched 
in 2018, is cur rently producing 60,000 plants per 
year. These plants have the potential to reforest 
between 300 to 370 acres of areas devoid of 
vegetation in the Cumbres d e Monterrey National 
Park. The tre e planting also  helps with water 
filtration an d flow of bot h surface and groundwater  
to bene fit 4.5 million p eople.China Urban Water Blueprint | China
With Ecolab’s support, TNC made progress on 
groundbreaking work focused on sustainable water 
systems in China. This included making headway on 
the development of source water protection programs 
for the Dongjiang River Basin, the Qiandao Lake Basin 
and the exploration of a “sponge city” program in 
Shanghai. These projects use nature to create a more 
resilient water system in regions across the globe and 
will serve as critical demonstration sites, showing not 
only the physical connections between nature and 
cleaner wate r, but also how to engage stakeholders 
around a common purpose through innovative 
funding and governance frameworks.
Ecolab also supported the development and publication 
of the China Urban Water Blueprint report, which 
analyzed the state of water in China’s 30 largest and 
faste
st gr
owing cities, informing TNC China’s decision 
to start tw
o new water funds. The report offers 
science-based rec
ommendations for natural solutions 
–including refor
estation and improving agricultural
practices – that can be in
tegrated alongside traditional
infrastructure to improve water security for people
and nature. It provides a roadmap for action for water
securit
y through natur
al solutions, paving the way
for new partnership
s and subsequent work on source
water protection.
41 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
As part of our commitment to achieve a positive 
water impact, Ecolab is focused on improving water availability, access and quality in water-stressed communities around the world. In 2021, the United States federal government indicated a high likelihood that Lake Powell and Lake Mead in the U.S. Southwest could reach critically low levels in 2022.
1 Without 
urgent action, hydropower generation and lake storage levels would be threatened, putting the 40 million Americans relying on the Colorado River water basin at risk. 
To help combat these outcomes, Ecolab helped fund a 
landmark water conservation project with the Colorado River Indian Tribes (CRIT) and the state of Arizona, one of the largest multi-sector collaborative drought response efforts ever achieved. Facilitated by Business for Water Stewardship, a program of the Bonneville Environmental Foundation, funding support helped secure 150,000 acre-feet of conservation to help shore up Lake Mead through the CRIT system conservation project. The nearly 49 billion gallons (~185 million cubic meters) of conserved water supports over 400,000 people each year. Of this total impact, Ecolab’s investment delivers a volumetric benefit of 19.2 million gallons (~73,000 cubic meters) of water per year over a 10-year period for a total of 192 million gallons (~730,000 cubic meters) of water.
The landmark collective funding agreement from 
Ecolab and other Fortune 500 global business leaders alongside a philanthropic match is the single largest collaborative funding effort of its kind. Not only does the project help shore up declining water levels in Lake Mead, which has fallen to 36% of capacity, the lowest levels since it was filled in 1935, it helps delay and reduce future water shortages that would impact Arizona, Nevada, California and Mexico. The funding also supports the CRIT’s longer-term efforts to modernize irrigation systems and conserve additional water. BIODIVERSITY AND ADAP TATION
Loch Leven | United S
tates
Within the Mississippi River Delta, the Lower 
Mississippi Alluvial Valley faces the potential loss of 
three critical wetland habitats, which would impact the 
health of numerous species. In partnership with TNC, 
Ecolab supports the Loch Leven project, working to 
restore and enhance 6,000 wetland acres and provide 
12.1 billion gallons (~46 million cubic meters) of flood 
storage capacity to local communities. Ecolab’s 
contribution to this work allows for 100 million gallons 
(~380,000 cubic meters) of water replenishment in 
the Upper Mississippi River Basin.
Upper Tietê watershed project | Brazil
The Nature Conservancy’s Upper Tietê watershed 
project in Brazil is supported by the Ec
olab Foundation. 
As part of Ecolab’s net positive water 2030 Impact 
Goals, nature-based solutions in high-risk w atersheds 
where we operate help provide water
 replenishment. At 
this location, it is estimated that the r eplenishment is 
29 million gallons (~110,000 cubic meters) per year over 
10 years.  
Bonneville Environmental Foundation | United State s 
A grant in 2021 to the B
onneville Environmental 
Foundation (BEL) supports water conservation efforts 
for Lake Mead in Ne
vada. Ecolab is a participant in 
BEL’s Business for Water Stewardship where over 
$4 million in corporate and philanthropic funding 
supports Arizona’s commitments to increase water 
supply reliability through a system conservation 
project with the Colorado River Indian Tribes 
(CRIT). This landmark corporate water stewardship 
investment is the single largest collaborative funding 
effort of its kind and complements existing funding 
from the state of Arizona to compensate the CRIT for 
cons erving up to 150,000 acre-fee t – approximat ely 49 
billion gallons (~185 million cubic meters) of water – of 
the Colorado Rive r. The funding supports conservation 
efforts that directly shore up declining water levels 
in Lake Mead and reduce the likelihood that shortage 
declarations will affect water supply for the state.
ECOLAB HELPS FUND LANDMARK WATER  
CONSERVATION PROJECT TO SHORE UP LAKE MEAD
FOR MORE INFORMATION
 Business for Water Stewardship
 Bonneville Environmental Foundation
42 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |1U.S. Bureau of ReclamationOUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
Making Measurable Progress
Ecolab remains focused on reducing waste across 
our global operations through product and packaging design principles and manufacturing and waste disposal process controls.
Packaging Design Principles
We incorporate circular economy principles in our packaging designs, focusing on innovation to design out waste, reuse materials and enhance recyclability. We have a long history of pioneering packaging technology, in some cases reducing waste from traditional packaging designs by 99%.
In addition, we were an early adopter of reusable 
containers for our concentrate products, as well as in the incorporation of post-consumer recycled plastic resin (PCR) into many of our packages. We utilized over three million pounds of post-consumer plastic resin in 2021. Waste Disposal Processes
In 2021, we deployed our refreshed Waste 
Management Policy which focuses on a hierarchy of 
controls, guidance for waste minimization, proper 
waste storage and internal audits. Aligned with our 
Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) approach, we 
developed new tools for waste loss analysis and 
site-level risk assessments which embody Ecolab’s 
continuous improvement initiatives that are woven 
through all our sustainability programs. 
For example, Ecolab invested in a state-of-the-
art wastewater treatment plant at our facility in 
Châlons-en-Champagne, France. The new wastewater 
treatment station uses water reuse technology 
supported by Nalco Water, Ecolab’s water and 
process management business, to reduce water 
discharge to the city sewer network by almost 80%. 
Facilities in Ecolab’s supply chain generate the 
majority of waste from manufacturing processes. 
Additional waste generated includes packaging 
materials, expired product, expired raw materials 
and product that is deemed out of specification. All 
Ecolab global supply chain facilities must verify that 
wastes are sent to disposal facilities licensed b y 
local government agencies. Overall, Ecolab G lobal 
Supply Chain has a policy requiring facilities 
operating in locations with no local discharge 
requirements to meet the following criteria: pH 
between 6.0 – 9.0 s.u. and no color, foam, oil sheen 
or floating solids. These requirements were adopted 
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) Multi-Sector General Permit (MSGP) for 
industrial stormwater discharges.
Ecolab has service agreements with waste companies 
that manage waste on Ecolab’s behalf. We have a 
robust internal process to qualify our waste disposal 
facilities, which are then approved by the Safety, 
Health and Environment department. 
For more detailed data on our waste practices, see 
the ESG Performance Data Appendix. In 2021, we saved more than 
14 million pounds of newly produced plastic. Because of innovations in the way we formulate and package products for our customers, we have kept more than 116 million pounds of plastic out of circulation since 2014. 
43 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |WASTE 
Approach
Ecolab is committed to implementing circular 
economy principles, including using materials and 
resources efficiently, reducing non-hazardous and 
hazardous waste in our operations, products and 
packaging and increasing reuse and recycling. Our 
commitment is operationalized through our Waste 
Management Policy, which establishes minimum waste 
management requirements and ensures responsible 
and legal practices for waste generation and disposal. 
Goals
Ecolab‘s ambition is to package all products in 
reusable or readily recyclable packaging designs by 
2030, unless prohibited by public health or regulatory 
requirements. Our key strategies to achieving our 
ambition are to: 
1. Accelerate and expand reusable packaging
programs
2. Shift to readily recyclable packages where reuse is
not feasible
Ecolab‘s ambition is to package 
all products in reusable or readily recyclable packaging designs by 2030.OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
PRODUCT SAFETY AND SUS TAINABILITY 
Approach
Ecolab contin ues to be a lea der in product  safety and 
sustainabilit y. We have deve loped policies a nd programs 
to prevent or  reduce human and environmenta l 
exposure to c hemical produc ts through a holistic 
engineering a pproach which i ncludes chemistry  
composition, f ormat, packaging, dispensi ng and digital 
control system s. Additionall y, we use the  Chemical 
Footprint Proje ct, GHS classi fications and Eco lab’s 
Impact s that Matter criteria, as well as proactiv e projects 
to continuousl y identify opp ortunities to increase 
product safety  and sustain ability. 
Product Safety 
We are committed to safety in our operations 
and developing products that are safe for our 
customers when used in their intended application. 
Ecolab’s product safety and stewardship program 
is foundational to the commitment to developing 
products and solutions that solve customer problems, 
while protecting the environment and promoting 
human health. This program is brought to life through 
our Product Safety and Stewardship Position.
As part of our commitment, Ecolab has a long-
standing history of implementing both hazard and 
risk assessment tools in our product development 
processes and we use a precautionary approach, 
meaning we strive to protect human health and 
the environment even in the absence of scientific 
certainty or regulatory requirements. 
Product Risk Assessment
100% of Ecola b’s raw materials and produ cts are 
evaluated for strict compli ance with ap plicable 
regulatory re quirements and  assessed by t he 
Regulatory Affairs and bus iness teams for 
human and env ironmental hazards using Globally 
Harmonized System of Classi fication and L abeling 
of Chemicals  (GHS) and Organization of Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD) sta ndards. To thoroughly assess ingredients, we review 
publicly available information from reputable sources such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), United States Agency for Toxic Substance and Disease Registry (ATSDR), World Health Organization (WHO) and European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). We also require chemical ingredient suppliers to provide Safety Data Sheets (SDS) and technical datasheets to enable proper handling and classification of our materials and products. For select products, we conduct additional testing to validate any pertinent hazards identified in products or product ingredients and assess potential substitutions. When substitutions are not technically viable, engineering controls and appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) are required for product use. Product risks are also proactively evaluated by multiple groups within Ecolab – including Regulatory Affairs, Corporate Sustainability, Toxicology, Industrial Hygiene, Transportation and Package Engineering – and our Global Innovation Product Regulatoryteam reviews all new products for human healthand environmental impact. If risks are identified,appropriate mitigation measures are implemented.One mechanism used to assess risks in our chemicalportfolio is through our participation in the ChemicalFootprint Project. We also use customer feedbackfrom field representatives’ interactions withcustomers and customer input received through ourtechnical call centers or third-party health and safetycall centers to continuously assess our products.These processes inform our final product safetyanalysis and SDSs for all Ecolab products.
44 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
45 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |PRODUCT SAFETY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
Classification and Labeling of Chemicals
100% of Ecolab products are reviewed for appropriate ingredient disclosure and accurate use and application instructions. We follow the GHS criteria for classifying our chemical ingredients and products and communicating product safety information. Ecolab has implemented GHS globally with over 95% of our products meeting the GHS standard and nearly 200,000 Safety Data Sheets (SDS) issued annually in approximately 74 different country-specific templates and 49 languages. 
Additionally, safe-use and disposal instructions 
are included on the product label and/or through our sales-and-service associates. 80% of Ecolab products have GHS category 1 and/or 2 warnings on the product due to our commitments to minimize our carbon footprint and packaging waste through the use of concentrated products. However, when used as directed, this percentage drops significantly, particularly across our Institutional North America portfolio, where over 75% of our products do not require any personal protective equipment. Ecolab has also innovated dispensing systems which prevent contact with concentrated chemistry to minimize risk. 
Participation in the Chemical Footprint Project 
In 2021, we continued our participation in the Chemical Footprint Project (CFP), which measures business progress toward safer chemicals and provides a tool for benchmarking companies as they select safer alternatives and reduce their use of chemicals of high concern. Ecolab completed this comprehensive benchmarking survey globally, included all business units in the evaluation and reported our performance to the CFP. 
European Union Substances of Very High Concern 
Ecolab’s products and operations are regulated by numerous different laws globally, including the European Union (EU) Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) regulations in our European 
products and operations. Our Position on European 
Union Substances of Very High Concern describes 
incorporation of the SVHC Authorization List into our 
internal Chemical Product Ingredient Sustainability 
Policy in support of our target to eliminate the 
remaining <1% of Ecolab products which utilize these 
chemistries in our global portfolio. 
In 2021, we continued to focus on reducing or 
eliminating the small number of Substances of  
Very High Concern within our portfolio through 
the following: 
• Prohibiting development of new products
containing SVHCs
• Working rapidly to make low volume or low business
value formulas containing SVHCs obsolete
• Where a replacement technology gap exists,
establishing projects and partnerships to define
global alternatives to the most significant SVHCs
• Initiating new internal reporting mechanisms
to facilitate visibility to results and continue to
increase management-level engagement
Product Sustainability 
Ecolab’s product sustainability program establishes 
the basic principles to help ensure human health and 
environmental sustainability is embedded into the 
lifecycle of our products, in concert with our product 
safety and stewardship program. Our Product 
Sustainability Position, released in 2021, formalizes 
our commitment.  
Our Product Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs  
teams closely partner to implement our internal 
Chemical Product Ingredient Sustainability Policy and 
Impacts that Matter platforms across our businesses 
globall y. By 2025, we plan to provide transparency to 
product sustainability impacts like greenhouse gas 
emissions and water use, biodegradability and aquatic 
toxicit y. In 2021, we made progress toward this goal by 
continuing to develop tools that lend transparency to 
our products’ sustainability attributes. We integrated additional sustainability requirements 
into our product design process through instituting 
a major update to our Chemical Product Ingredient 
Sustainability Policy in 2021. This update expanded 
the list of managed chemical ingredients and 
improved processes to ensure these ingredients are 
not included in new products while simultaneously 
being phased out of current product use. We also took 
additional steps to embed product sustainability into 
our raw material selection process and now review all 
new chemical products for sustainability outcomes 
according to our commercial Impacts that Matter 
program. 
We continue to leverage our Impacts that Matter 
framework that aligns with eight, science-based and 
measurable product sustainability criteria. Impacts 
that Matter is a natural extension of our Exponential 
Return on Investment (eROI) value platform and 
allows Ecolab customers to make informed choices 
based on the outcomes products have on their 
teams, customers and the environment. Providing 
key product information through the Impacts that 
Matter framework helps explain and measure the 
impacts of Ecolab solutions. The technical information 
supporting product attributes is backed by our 
enterprise chemical management database. 46
OUR APPROACH  ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
3Requires no eye, hand, skin, or 
respiratory personal protective equipment when used as directed per Global Harmonized System (GHS) classifications. Simplifies training employees on safe, effective use and handling. Creates positive staff andoccupant perception. Available in a package designed to reduce exposure to the concentrated chemical under typical use conditions making the product easier to handle, store and deliver.
Requires No Personal
Protection Equipment (PPE)Simplified Product Use
Product is fragrance free or contains a 
fragrance compliant with International Fragrance Association (IFRA) safety standards. Fosters peace of mind for user and comfort for occupant. Fragrance Safety
Minimizes air impacts due to volatile organic compounds. Contains no more than 10% volatile organic compounds, and/or complies with California Air Resource Board (CARB) guidelines per the product category.Low Volatile Organic 
Compounds (VOC)
Product is designed for low impact 
to the natural environment and is classified as readily, ultimately or inherently biodegradable at use solution levels.Product is not toxic to aquatic life when used as directed, reducing potential environmental hazard during waste discharge.Biodegradable When
Used as Directed 
Minimizes nutrient pollution 
in aquatic environments from phosphorus.Product Contains No
or Low Phosphorus
Concentrated products, requiring 
dilution with water prior to use, reduces packaging waste and carbon emissions due to transportation.Reduced Waste 
and Carbon FootprintNot Toxic to Aquatic LifeWhen Used as Directed
An Outcome Based Assessment 
of Product Sustainability
Product sustainability is a key aspect of how our programs impact people and the planet, in addition to water, energy, 
climate impacts and waste metrics. The Impacts that Matter product sustainability framework was developed using bestin class scientific standards to be universal criteria that can be used to compare any product, anywhere in the world.
HUMAN HEAL TH
ENV IRON MENT AL SAFETY
Currently, more than 250 Ecolab products are recognized 
by eco-certification bodies including:
• Green Seal • Nordic Swan • Korean Ecolabel
• EU Ecolabel • Blue Angel • USDA Biobased
• EPA Safer Choice and Design for the EnvironmentECO-CER TIFICATIONS
In addition to our Impacts that Matter criteria, Ecolab provides subject 
matter expertise to both government and non-government organizations in the development of product-level eco-certification standards. Where it meets our customers' needs, we obtain eco-certifications for our products. Impacts That
MATTER
In addition to our Impacts that Matter criteria, Ecolab provides subject matter 
expertise to both government and non-government organizations in the develop-ment of product-level eco-certification standards. Where it meets our customers’ needs, we obtain eco-certifications for our products.Currently, more than 250 Ecolab products are recognized by  eco-certification bodies including:• Green Seal
• Nordic Swan  • Korean Ecolabel
• EU Ecolabel  • Blue Angel  • USDA Biobased
• EPA Safer Choice and Design for the En
vironmentIMPACTS THAT MATTER
An Outcome Based Assessment  of Product Sustainability  
Product sustainability is a key aspect of how our programs impact people and the planet, in addition to water, energy, climate impacts and waste metrics. The Impacts that Matter product sustainability framework was developed using best-in-class scientific standards to be universal criteria that can be used to compare any product, anywhere in the world.
46
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX  ABOUT
47
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |
Our 47,000 associates, which include 25,000 sales-and-service 
professionals providing on-site services for customers, bring ingenuity and resourcefulness to our customers’ and the world’s toughest challenges. And to ensure our continued capacity to deliver for customers, we strive to be the destination for the world’s most capable talent. We seek the brightest people, with a range of experiences, and invest in them by providing training, a safe and inclusive environment and opportunities to grow their own potential alongside our collective impact.
We believe in compensating our employees fairly and in 
compliance with local laws. We are committed to developing a culture that fully leverages our employees’ talents by promoting a diverse, equitable and inclusive environment and providing unparalleled training and career development opportunities. Our commitment to the safety of our employees, contractors and customers is uncompromised – from the way we operate, to the products we develop, to the customers we serve. In addition, we are committed to promoting the health and well-being of our employees, our customers and our customers’ customers by contributing to programs and initiatives that enhance the quality of life in the communities where they work and live.SOCIAL
Our People Drive Our Success
OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
TALENT RECRUITMENT  
Hiring Practices
We believe the best teams are diverse and inclusive. To 
create these teams, we strive to:•
Hire and value people with unique cultures,back
grounds and experiences
•Provide an environment where all associat
es
are supported
•Encourage our associates to re
ach their full potential
We believe a world of opportunity can be found within our growing company and that people develop through experiences. To allow for this development, we strive to:•
Create new opportunities within exis
ting roles
•Provide resources t
o aid skill development
• Encourage associates to seek in
ternal growth
experiences to further their professional development
We believe delivering results and demonstrating teamwork drive advancement – both for individuals and for the company. To support this belief, we: •
Expect our associates to strive to outperf
orm their
role and deliver their best
• Reward and accelerate the c
areers of our top performers
•Recognize that our entire team con
tributes to
our successIn 2021, we hired 8,905 new employees, globall y. 
Based on the average number of employees in each 
market, our global combined new hire rate in 2021 
was 19.6%. For more detailed data, see the ESG  
Performance Data Appendix. 
Senior Management Hired from the Local Community
We understand that having member
s from the local 
community in our senior managemen
t te
ams enhances 
human capital, improve
s our ability to understand 
local needs and brings positive economic impacts to 
our local communities. As a company headquartered 
in the United States, the majority of senior managers 
based in the U.S. are hired from the U.S. 
To track the proportion of senior management hired 
from the local community within our other significant 
markets, we use the following definitions: 
1.Senior management is defined as positions that
report directly to the mark
et lead
2. Hiring from the local community means within the major market
s outside of the U.S. in which we operate,
including Asia Pacific, Europe, Greater China, India,Middle East and Africa and Latin America.
3.
 Significant locations of operations are defined asour manufact
uring facilities and operation centers
within the markets in which we operateTALENT RETENTION 
Global Turnover
Based on the average number of employees in each 
market, our global combined turnover rate in 2021 
was 17.4%, of which 13.1% was voluntary and 4.2% 
was involuntary. For more detailed data, see the 
ESG Performance Data Appendix.
Outplacement Services
Ecolab offers a comprehensive, global 
outplacement service to employees in the event an 
employee must transition out of employment with 
Ecolab. Services offered vary by country and level 
of employee, but examples include resume and 
interview preparation, career coaching and access 
to career fairs, job postings and a digital talent 
exchange. In the U.S., severance packages based on 
years of service are provided in circumstances in 
which employment is involuntarily terminated. 
Employees and their immediate families maintain 
their medical and dental benefits, group life 
insurance and access to the Employee Assistance 
Program through their severance period.
PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY 
IN MAJOR MARKETS OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES
GREATER CHINA100%
LATIN AMERICA100%
INDIA, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA80%
EUROPE88%
ASIA PACIFIC93%
48 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
49 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |BENEFITS  
Ecolab provides market-competitive benefits based on 
country-specific needs and government requirements. While our benefits packages vary by market, they are designed to attract top talent and build long-term associate loyalty. All United States employees scheduled to work 20 hours or more per week are eligible for Ecolab’s benefits package which offers associates medical and dental coverage, wellness and employee assistance programs, life and travel accident insurance, parental leave and adoption assistance, disability coverage, an employee stock purchase plan, pension plan and retirement savings plans. 
U.S. Retiree Health Benefits provide employees aged 
55 and above with at least ten years of service, or aged 62 and above, with access to retiree health benefits, including medical, prescription, dental and vision coverage following retirement. 
Temporary workers, who account for approximately 1% of 
our total workforce, including intern, co-op and seasonal employees, are excluded from the benefits package.
Retirement Plan
Ecolab offers generous retirement benefits amounting to greater than 9% of total compensation to support employees in preparing for a financially secure future. Our 401(k) Savings Plan offers company match, pre-tax and Roth after-tax contribution options and a variety of investment funds. All contributions are immediately vested, and participants are provided with complimentary, personalized planning and advice. In 2021, 80% of Ecolab employees participated. For our Company Match program, Ecolab contributes $1 for $1 on the first 4% of eligible compensation and $0.50 for each $1 contributed on the next 4%, subject to IRS limits. The maximum matched is 6% of compensation if an employee contributes 8% of their pay. For contributions, employees may contribute from 1% to 50% of pay up to the IRS limits with pre-tax and/or Roth after-tax contributions.Pension Plan
The Ecolab Defined Benefit Pension Plan offers a 3% cash balance benefit fully paid by Ecolab. Employees are automatically enrolled, and contributions are fully vested after three years of continuous service. Employees are also provided with resources such as self-service pension estimates, a full-service call center and an intranet site with tools and information.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) provides employees with the opportunity to own Ecolab stock with employer matching contributions. Ecolab contributes $0.15 for every $1 contributed by employee, with a maximum annual match of $900. Employees may contribute monthly up to $6,000 of their annual pay through payroll. There is no waiting period to enroll, and employees may change payroll deductions or sell stock at any time.
Parental Leave 
Under our U.S. Paid Parental Leave Policy, Ecolab offers paid parental leave for all U.S. employees within 12 months of the date of birth or adoption of a minor child. In 2021, 580 employees – 440 male and 140 female – utilized this offering with 98% of male and 100% of female employees returning to work at the end of the leave. In 2021, 79% of male and 80% of female associates were still employed 12 months after their return to work. Globally, parental leaves and time away are handled in accordance with each country’s local laws pertaining to time away from work.
Promotion of Employee Health
A Be Well Program is available to U.S. employees and their families. The program empowers, educates and supports employees in their personal journey to overall well-being by making positive lifestyle choices while creating a culture of wellness throughout Ecolab. The Be Well Program features an online resource center that contains wellness information and tools, including online seminars, events, a wellness assessment, programs and resources  
highlighting physical, financial, emotional and social 
well-being.
A
dditionally, the Cigna Employee Assistance 
Program (EAP) is available t
o all U.S. employees and 
their families. EAP personal adv
ocates are available 
24/7 to pr
ovide confidential support to help resolve 
issues employees
 and their families may be facing. 
This includes connection t
o the right mental health 
professional(s), learning of helpful community 
resources
 and immediate phone consultation on 
financial, legal or mental health concerns. EAP also 
provides access to a variety of wellness webcasts 
and free counseling sessions - five sessions per 
issue, p er year . 
Flexible Work  
Ecolab establishes a standard workweek, work 
schedules, re
st periods, meal breaks and attendance 
expectations for all emplo
yees in accordance with state 
and local employment laws.
Formal alternative w
ork arrangements are available 
to all associate
s and includes flextime, part-time, job 
sharing and altered workw
eek schedules. Everyday 
flexibility is a more informal arrangement that allows 
as
sociate
s to address situations and meet personal and 
family needs that occ
asionally arise
. 
FlexWork is a part o
f Ecolab’s culture, helping work 
get done effectiv
ely, given the constant challenges  
our associates face in balancing the many facets 
of life. We ha
ve a hybrid work model that allows 
associates, who are able to do part of their work 
remotely, the op
tion to work up to 40% of the 
time remote with the balance spent in office. For 
additional flexibility, associates can work up to 
two week
s fully remote per yea r. The hybrid model 
balances
 the importance of in-person collaboration 
with remote work flexibilit y.OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
BENEFITS 
Additionally, we provide resources to help our 
associates manage life outside of work. Offerings 
include discounts in childcare and tutoring as well as 
access to a caregiver search tools with over six million 
providers in the areas of childcare, eldercare, pet care 
and homecare. We also partner with Office Depot 
to offer discounts on office supply items and with 
PerkSpot to provide associate’s access to thousands 
of discounts in more than 25 different categories.
We have vacation policies in accordance with national 
and state regulations in all countries in which we 
operate. As a company headquartered in the United 
States, our U.S. vacation policy offers a minimum of 12 
paid vacation days to full-time employees. 
We offer sick time in accordance with national and 
state regulations in all countrie s in which we operate.  
As a company headquartered in the United States, 
our U.S. Health & Safe Time Policy offers six paid 
days of sick time to full-time employees.
LA
BOR RELATIO NS
Ecolab respects the principles of freedom of 
association and the right to collective bargaining in 
accordance with applicable national law. Our Position 
on Freedom of Association recognizes an employee’s 
right to form or join a labor union, or to refrain 
from doing so, without fear of reprisal, intimidation 
or harassment. Where employees are represented 
by a legally recognized labor union, we fulfill our 
bargaining obligations as defined by the law. 
We respect that freedom of association is a 
fundamental right and recognize the right to 
collective bargaining as stated in the International 
Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We 
adhere to applicable national laws that govern employee rights to exercise freedom of association 
and collective bargaining.
Globally in 2021, 15.9% of our employees were 
covered by collective bargaining agreements, of which 6.5% were based in the United States. We had three U.S.-based collective-bargaining agreements in 2021 covering 2.6% of our total U.S. workforce. For these agreements, a minimum of 60 days’ notice prior to the contract end date is required to propose any changes to the contract agreements. All collective-bargaining agreements contain a specified notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation.
We adhere to U.S. National Labor Relations Board 
protocols to support employee rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. We have not identified any U.S.-based operations at which freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at risk. We are unable to report on violations or risks of our suppliers.
50 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
COMPENS ATION
Approach
Ecolab has a market com petitive and performance-
based pay philosophy, a nd we believe in 
compensating our employe es fairly and equitabl y. 
Goals
Ecolab is actively working t o improve  
representation of gender  and race at e ach level of 
the workforce and as part  of our 2030 I mpact 
Goals, we are committed t o pay equity and o ngoing 
audits to maintain pay eq uity in the U.S. a nd 
expanding globally. Our va riable pay programs 
include goals and target s that are directly aligned 
to the success of the business.
Pay Equity 
We are committed to a market-competitive and 
performance-based philosophy as it relates to pay 
across the globe and rewarding and recognizing 
employees for their contributions to the success 
of the organization. This includes our global merit 
increase program and our short- and long-term 
variable pay programs.
Our processes and govern ance for ensuring both 
performance-based and eq uitable pay decisions 
without regard for gende r and race /ethnicity 
is consistent at the enterp rise level and across  
significant locations of opera tion. There are several  
processes and practices in place  to help ensure we 
don’t have pay discrepancies related to gende r, race 
or other personal demograp hics including:
•Annual and ongoing pay reviews and audits
•Annual salary and bonus planning for eligible
associates
•Annual talent reviews
•Ongoing pay alignment decisions such as hiring,promotions and transfersPa
y decisions are made at the managerial level 
and aggregated for review and analysis across performance, gender and race to ensure equity.
In addition to these enterprise practices, we also 
conduct pay equity reviews both in alignment with country regulations and simply because it is a part of good business and talent practice. Ecolab conducts a pay equity review in the U.S. for our total population every two years. The two-year cadence reflects the size and scale of our U.S. organization and allows us to analyze a few years of pay decisions. We leverage a third-party expert in compensation and HR analytics for these reviews and assess pay equity in general, with a special focus on gender and race. The findings of our 2018 and 2020 studies validate that Ecolab provides equal pay for men, women and all races/ethnicities who undertake the same work, at the same level and with the same performance and experience. Our study for 2022 is underway. 
We are compliant with all local reporting pay equity 
regulations including public disclosure requirements in the UK and France.
Fair Pay 
At Ecolab we require a variety o
f high demand, 
unique vocational and technical skills in entry-level roles. Consequently, our entry-level wages are on average two to three times higher than minimum wage regardless of gender across our significant locations of operation, which are defined as our manufacturing facilities and operation centers. We are committed to compensating our employees fairly and in compliance with local laws. We have established a minimum hourly rate of pay for U.S. employees of $15.00, which is significantly above local minimum wage in many cases. 
To ensure our pay continues to align competitively 
with the external market for all roles across the company, we test our pay and wage data against several reputable third-party compensation surveys. 
Our pay equity studies conduct
ed across the U.S. 
enterprise every two years also help validate that we 
are paying competitively in each state.
Pay Transparenc
y 
We provide transparency to our pay philosophy, 
structures, car
eer paths and program design 
to all associates globall y
. We are also open and 
transparen t about our c
ommitmen t to pay equit y and
 
the corresponding gov
ernance and analytic
s used 
to test and validate that we ar
e paying equitabl y. 
Our compensation and gov
ernance practices are 
built into our manager and leadership development 
curriculum. Each of our annual compens
ation 
processes includes training materials for managers 
to guide performance-based decision making.
 
Grievance mechanisms regarding compensation 
include our glob
al Code of C
onduct policy and 
reporting mechanism. In the U.S., our Ecolab As
sociate 
Resolution resour
ces provide numerous avenues for 
employees to raise concerns and seek resolution.  
In 2021, the annual total compensation for our 
CEO was $8,365,888 as reported in the Summary 
Compensation Table on page 48 of our annual Proxy 
Statement. The annual total compensation for our 
global median employee in 2021 was $52,339. Thus, 
the annual total compensation for our CEO was 160 
times the annual total compensation for our global 
median employee.
51 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
52
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |
22,260
15,655 Male | 6,409 Female | 196 Not Specified
NA | Employees9,714
6,538 Male | 3,139 Female | 37 Not Specified
EU | Employees
1,991
1,521 Male | 468 Female | 2 Not Specified
IMEA | Employees
3,496
2,550 Male | 869 Female | 77 Not Specified
AP | Employees3,331
2,662 Male | 663 Female | 6 Not Specified
GC | Employees
5,343
4,064 Male | 1,271 Female | 8 Not Specified
LA | Employees
32,990 Male 32,827 Male 163 Male
12,819 Female 12,308 Female 511 Female
326 Not Specified 318 Not Specified 8 Not SpecifiedDIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION  
Approach
Our focus on diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) 
reflects our longstanding values of working together with diverse perspectives to challenge ourselves, reach our goals and do what’s right. 
We believe in the value of diversity, equity and 
inclusion, in business and in all facets of life. We are working to embed DE&I throughout our company, so that it shows up in how we: •
Attract, hire, de
velop and promote people
•Create respectful and inclusiv
e workplaces
•Do business with our customers and supplier
s
•Use our corporate clout to cre
ate equity in our
communities
We’re leveraging our leadership position to exemplify how to listen and act on behalf of communities who have historically been left out. We work to:•
Collaborate with external par
tners and community
leaders to educate ourselves about relevant socialand civic issues
•
Work to steer our suppliers to
ward equitable
practices, and lobby governments for reform
•Fund initiatives within communities to mak
e change
real at a local levelGLOBAL EMPLOYEE INFORMATION BY MARKET, GENDER AND EMPLOYEMENT TYPE* 
* This employment data does not include temporary employees, interns or co-ops, which account for approximately 1% of our total workforce.45,453 682 46,135
Full-Time Global 
Employees Part-Time Global 
Employees Total Global 
EmployeesOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION  
Goals
We’re committed to making faster, deeper progress 
inside Ecolab and within society – and we are holding ourselves accountable through our 2030 Impact Goals. These goals help use drive significant change to advance racial and social justice within our organization through:•
Increasing management level gender diversityt
o 35% - representing a ~50% increase in
representation from a 2019 base year – with theultimate goal of gender parity
•
Increasing management level ethnic/r
acial
diversity to 25% - representing a ~50% increase inrepresentation from a 2019 base year – as we seekto meet full representation of the U.S. workforce atall levels
Making Measurable Progress
We employ a combination of strategies to help us on our path to meet our 2030 Impact goals around diversity including:
• Demonstrating leadership from the top levels of our
organization
• Setting tangible, team-based goals
• Creating more diverse c
andidate pools
• Educating our e
mployee base on the importance o
f
diversity, equity and inclusion
• Leveraging Employee Resource Groups
Leading from the Top
The Boar
d of Directors reviews global diversity 
metrics on a quart
erly basis, and senior executives 
and business leads review metrics monthl y . In 20 21, 
we celebrat
ed four years of partnership and progress  
for our Exec
utive Diversity and Inclusion Council, 
made up of senior leadership.
In December 2021, Ecolab President and CEO 
Christophe Beck became a Catalyst CEO Champion  
For Change signatory. Together with over 70 other global companies and Catalyst, a leading global 
nonprofit helping to build workplaces that work 
for women, Beck made a perso
nal commitment to 
support diversity, inclusion and gender equity  
at work.
Creating More Diverse Candidat
e Pools that 
Accurately Re
flect the Market and Industry
To ensure diverse c
andidates are considered 
throughout the recruiting process, w
e use a  
multifaceted approach. All Ecolab jobs are posted 
through major social and recruiting channels as  
well as diversity s
pecific job boards, like the  
Diversity Jobs Network. 
We ensure divers
e communities know about Ecolab 
careers though our longstanding and critical 
partnerships with Hist
orically Black Colleges &  
Universities (HBCUs), T
he Society of Hispanic 
Professional Engineers (SHPE), The Society of Women 
Engineers (SWE), The National Societ
y of Black 
Engineers (NSBE), Competitive Adv
antage, Out4U and 
The Consortium. 
To activ
ate diverse early career talent into our 
pipeline, our campus recruiting team par
tners with 
on-campus organizations that suppor
t women and 
underrepresented groups at the local, regional and 
national level. Our goal is for 100% o
f campus 
requisitions  to have a diverse funnel of applicants 
that mirrors  the market availability for each 
individual job.
Finally, we focus attention on educating recruiters, 
interview teams and hiring managers on inclusion, 
diversity and bias through our E
colab Interview 
Training courses to support managers in 
interviewing and selection of the best candidate.  
Through utilization of these strategies and others, in 
2021, 38% of all new management-level hires globally 
were women and 35% of all new management-level 
hires in the U.S. were people of color.*Ecolab is committed to transparency and has
chosen to publicly share our Employer InformationReport (EEO-1) – a compliance survey mandatedby U.S. federal statute and submitted to the EqualEmployment Opportunity Commission.
 View the 2020 EEO-1 Report68.7%11.5%10.1%
4.7%
2.4%
1.7%
0.4%
0.4%WhiteHispanic or LatinoBlack or African AmericanAsianNot Specified Two or More RacesAmerican Indian or 
Alaska Native
Native Hawaiian or 
Other Pacific IslanderUNITED STATES ETHNIC AND 
RACIAL DIVERSITY
As defined by EEO-1* racial and ethnic categories
18,559
Total U.S. 
Employees
4,290
U.S. Management 
Employees79.8 %
8.1%
6.2%
3.1%
1.4%
1.0%
0.3%
0.1%WhiteAsianHispanic or LatinoBlack or African AmericanNot Specified Two or More RacesAmerican Indian or 
Alaska Native
Native Hawaiian or 
Other Pacific Islander
53 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION  
Setting Tangible, Team-Based Targets
For the first time, we set targets for every team in terms of diversity, equity and inclusion. These targets were derived by understanding a team’s current status, identifying what is working and not working and pinpointing the gaps that prevent the organization from reaching their goal.
Leaders receive monthly diversity metrics about their 
teams and report to senior leadership about their progress, their plans for addressing gaps and their differentiated development plans, which promotes equity by providing networking and professional development opportunities for diverse talent.
Educating our Employee Base on the Importance 
of InclusionWe provide associates with regular opportunities to connect, listen and learn about our differences, to build empathy, understanding and allyship for one another.
In January 2021, we held a Day of Understanding 
event which spotlighted women at work, gender equality, allyship and inclusion drawing over 8,500 participants to a town hall and more than 3,500 to breakout sessions. The event focused on the experiences of women in the workplace, sharing their personal career stories and discussing actionable steps towards creating a more equitable workplace.
And to help associates have ongoing conversations, 
build trust and be better allies to those who face discrimination, over one third of our global workforce has completed an online Allyship in Action training course.
This work will continue, collaboratively and within our company. To drive more economic inclusion within our communities, we are working to increase our spend with minority-owned and diverse suppliers throughout our supply chain. In 2021, we achieved a 96% increase in year-over-year spend with diverse suppliers. And we continue to support organizations dedicated to advancing racial and social justice, through our Ecolab Foundation giving and volunteer programs.
It continues to be our responsibility to advance racial 
and social justice within our communities. That means we encourage our associates to keep talking, learning and seeking to understand – and keep working toward a better world for everyone.ALLYSHIP IN ACTION
Following the death of George Floyd in our headquarters 
community of S
aint Paul, MN in 2020, we pledged 
to pr
ovide mor
e frequent opportunities for real 
conver
sations about race and to build a more inclusive 
cultur
e across all our non-majority employee groups. 
The underlying issue
s of racism laid bare by M r. Floy d’s 
death are still in front of us. Moving our society forward 
requires
 focused and consistent effort on many fronts 
as we con
tinue to work for racial and social justice.
Inside Ecolab, w
e have continuously accelerated our 
efforts to ensure we are a place where all people 
are welcome, respected and can thrive. We have 
set goals and are increasing racial and gender 
diversity, ensured equitable and competitive pay and 
embedded diversity, equity and inclusion principles 
in all manager training. We’ve had double-digit 
growth in our employee resource groups, which tells 
us that our associates find support and a sense of 
belonging from each othe r. And, to help associates 
have ongoing conversations, build trust and be 
better allies to those who face discrimination, over 
one third of our global workforce has completed an 
online Allyship in Action training course.
Our leadership team, has been actively involved in 
a wide range of initiatives that the Minneapolis and 
St. Paul busine
ss community lau nched to advance 
racial equity, including police and public safety 
reform, e
xpanded access to affordable housing, early 
childhood education funding and reducing health 
disparities
. Ecolab leaders are also working on policy, 
philanthropy and workplace initiatives through the 
Minnesota Business Coalition for Racial Equity. We 
believe 
that the work of the business community 
in Minneapolis and St. Paul will have national and 
international impact, given the global spotlight that 
has been on our communit y.
54 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
55 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
Leveraging Employee Resource Groups 
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are 
invaluable in helping associates feel a sense of 
belonging and in driving key talent outcomes, such as 
engagement and retention. Supporting and growing 
our vibrant community of 12 ERGs help associates 
connect with colleagues, take part in career and 
leadership development experiences and provide 
important insights to the business. 
For example, E3, our employee resource group 
supporting the advancement of women in the 
workplace, leads a global mentorship program that 
provides members with career guidance, professional 
development and networking opportunities, and 
senior leadership exposure. Based on our 2019 
employee engagement survey results, E3 members 
were 21% more likely to get promotions than the 
average employee.GLOBAL GENDER DIVERSITY
RACIAL AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY IN THE U.S.71.5%  Male
27.8 % Female
0.7% Not Specified74.3% Male 
25.5% Female 
0.2% Not Specif ied
79.8 % Non-minority
18.8% Minority
1.4% Not Specified68.7%  Non-minority
28.9 % Minority
2.4% Not SpecifiedAll Global  
EmployeesGlobal
Management  
Employees
All U.S.  
EmployeesU.S.  
Management.  
EmployeesIn 2021, we grew 
management level g ender 
diver
sity to 25.5% and 
management level ethnic/
racial diver
sity in the U.S. to 
18.8%. And ov
erall, we’ve 
achiev
ed a 50% increase 
in female and Black, 
Indigenous and People of 
Color (BIPOC) executives 
sinc
e 2016
. OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
56
HOW ECOLAB IS CREATING A MORE INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE FOR THOSE WITH DISABILITIES
As part of our 2030 Impact Goals, Ecolab is 
committed to building a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace that reflects our longstanding value of working together to integrate diverse perspectives, challenge ourselves, reach our goals and do what’s right. That includes supporting associates of differing abilities and in caretaking roles. Here’s what we’re doing:
Providing Benefits Built to Support All  
Associate Needs
Ecolab has provided medical benefits in the U.S. to support associates with differing abilities and in caretaking roles. These benefits are comprehensive and competitive in the marketplace and offer a broad range of quality programs, including occupational, speech and physical therapy, genetic testing and counseling, home health care and mental health services.
In 2020, Ecolab introduced new U.S. caregiver 
benefits and resources. These new policies are focused on supporting the health and wellbeing of our employees and their families, including expanding flexible work options and discounted benefits and resources focused on childcare, school support, eldercare and home care.
Reaching a Diverse Talent Through Partnership
Ecolab has committed to expand recruitment of people with disabilities through consistent outreach  with community and diversity partners. Today, we post job positions on non-government disability recruitment organization websites to attract diverse talent and email open positions daily through our 
community and diversity outreach program.
This partnership connects Ecolab career 
opportunities with potential candidates from 
our community partners. With this information, t hey 
match the criteria we specifically request 
and share those positions with the appropriate 
members of their organizations, including minorities, 
women, people with disabilities, veterans, diversity 
organizations, universities and colleges, Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), state 
workforce agencies, construction and skilled trades, 
and professional and technical groups.
Creating Communities t
hat Care
Supporting people with disabilities and caretakers 
who support loved ones with disabilities is essential to 
Ecolab. In 2020, the company launched the Disability 
Ability & Wellness Network (DAWN), an employee 
resource group focused on supporting associates 
with d iffering abilities and those in caretaking roles.
Working Toward Disability Inclusion
Recently, Ecolab was recognized by the 
2021  
Disability Equality Index (DEI) as a Best Place to 
Work f or Disability Inclusion by the American 
Association o f People with Disabilities (AAPD), the 
nation’s l argest disability rights organization and 
Disability:IN, t he global business disability inclusion 
network.
The DEI is a nationally recognized annual 
assessment for businesses to gauge their level of 
workplace inclusion for people with disabilities and 
a prominent benchmarking tool to help companies 
build a roadmap of measurable, tangible actions to 
achieve disability inclusion and equality
.
56 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021       |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
We grow our business when we grow our talent and 
engagement is critical for team and company growth. Ecolab continuously monitors the health of our talent and works to build an engaged workforce through ongoing listening initiatives. In addition to all-employee global surveys, we conduct periodic check-in and small surveys with targeted teams to allow us to gather insights into the experience and needs of our workforce.
Our enterprise-wide employee engagement survey 
was relaunched in 2021, with the intent to survey associates even more often than in the past – twice a year, instead of once every two. Completed in July 2021, the redesigned survey indicated an 89% participation rate, and an overall engagement score – a measure of our associates’ emotional commitment to our organization and goals – of 79%, an all-time high engagement score for Ecolab. 
The survey also provided us with feedback on our 
retention rate – how likely our associates are to build a long career with Ecolab – of 72%. We also saw great acceleration in our diversity, equity and inclusion journey with an inclusion index score of 79%. Inclusion is about our employees feeling valued, and fully seen for who they are within the workplace. Both retention and inclusion indicators exceeded the normal range for other similar companies at that time. There is still much more to do, and we must do it faster, but the strides that we have made are an encouraging sign that our commitment to creating a more diverse, equitable and inclusive culture here at Ecolab is having a real impact. 
Through the global survey, we identified areas of 
strength and opportunities, and have taken action on them both individually, and at the team and enterprise level.
It is clear that our team values a sense of purpose, 
belonging and empowerment. Some of the areas that stand out as points to celebrate are that: •
91% of our associates feel they c
ontribute to our
mission to protect people and the resources vital to life
•89% of our team members feel that they hav
e
made valuable connections with the people theywork with and share a sense of belonging at Ecolab
•
88% of our employees feel that they hav
e the
knowledge and autonomy to do their best workAt the enterprise level, one of the areas to focus on has been providing development opportunities for our associates at Ecolab. One of the improvements we began to plan in 2021 and intend to deploy in 2022 is our Career Hub, which will provide personalized career development connections, learning and experiences to associates based on their individual skills, interests and career profile.
We have also implemented a new approach to 
continuous listening, leveraging the expertise of a third-party provider to deliver regular “nudges” to associates and managers, giving them AI-driven insights into small changes they can make to continuously improve engagement, retention and inclusion. 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY RESULTS
Metric 2016 2018 2021
Response Rat
e 86%  91% 89%
Employee  
Engagement Score 62%  63%  79%89%  participation rate
79%  overall engagement score
72%  retention rate
79%  inclusion index scoreOUR 2021 ENGAGEMENT SURVEY RESULTS
57 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT
Approach
Ecolab’s ability to attract and retain the world’s most 
capable talent, while deepening our relationship with existing employees, is critical to managing our operations efficiently and effectively and delivering innovative solutions for customers. We invest in professional training and development, help our employees create personal plans to achieve their career goals and conduct regular employee engagement surveys. 
Our strategic initiatives closely monitor the health 
of our talent, strengthen our talent pipelines and drive accountability for continuous improvement. We have ongoing CEO-led reviews of talent and pipeline health. Reports with talent and diversity metrics are provided to top management monthly. Talent Council meetings for each business, market and function are held monthly to review talent development and discuss strategic talent initiatives. Additionally, annual talent reviews are conducted with senior executives to lay out succession plans for leadership and other key roles. This talent assessment process supplements the annual Performance Planning and Development process to ensure we proactively attract and retain talent that meets the needs of our growing global organization.
Goals
At our core, Ecolab’s growth is rooted in decades of science, learning and innovation. We have ambitious, solution-oriented teams and we continually look for ways to help our employees learn and grow. That’s why we aspire to do the following:•
Maintain the steady st
ate global enrollment of all
first-line managers in our world-class ManagerEssentials program
•
Have all new eligible global leaders o
f first-line
managers complete the Leader Coach programand maintain steady state•
Each year, have 90-
100 of our high-potential
executive-level leaders complete the GrowthLeader program
•
Host annual Ecolab Developmen
t Week events and
encourage all associates to engage in at
least one development activity during that w
eek
and/or leverage one of these activities duringthe year
Making Measurable Progress
Through various learning processes and programs, we are providing associates with the tools they need to excel and developing the future leaders of Ecolab and the industry at large.
Employee Learning and Development 
We believe in a 70-20-10 model for learning and development, with 70% of learning taking place on the job, 20% occurring with role models, coaches, mentors, job shadowing and formal feedback mechanisms and 10% through formal training. Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), formal learning programs and specialized continuous improvement programs provide formal coaching, mentoring and 1:1 career development opportunities for employees.  
In the United States, we also offer an educational 
assistance program providing eligible employees with financial reimbursement upon successful completion of approved programs and courses offered by accredited colleges, business schools or technical schools.
Ecolab’s 12 ERGs hosted over 375 events across 85+ 
global chapters in 2021. Event topics ranged across professional and personal development, diversity, equity and inclusion, healing and self-care and perspectives from senior leaders. In total, associates collectively spent almost 20,000 hours participating in ERG-led events.
Additionally, we delivered our fourth annual Ecolab 
Development Week to provide practice-oriented workshops to upgrade employee skills and advance career development. The 2021 Development Week comprised of 355 completely virtual events hosted in 43 countries with over 25,000 active enrollments and 7,700 unique learners. 
Leadership Development Programs  
Beyond rigorous technical, functional and business-
specific training courses, our global development programs are designed to deepen leadership capability and include Manager Essentials, Leader Coach, Growth Leader and several functional rotational programs. Supplementing these corporate offerings, our divisions and functions also provide leadership development opportunities tailored to the unique needs of the business.  
In 2021, we achieved steady state deployment 
of our flagship front-line manager development program, Manager Essentials, with 1,644 completions in 2021. We also provided our Leader Coach program, for the leaders of our first-line managers, to 487 associates in 2021. Lastly, we had 97 of our high-potential early executives complete our Growth Leader program in 2021.
58
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT
Annual Performance Planning and Development  
Ecolab’s global Performance Planning and 
Development (PP+D) process provides employees and their managers with the practices and tools they need to optimize performance. All PP+D tools are accessible to all employees in nine languages through our enterprise talent management system alongside digital forms available in 25 languages. In addition to the annual performance review process, managers are encouraged to provide open feedback and coaching throughout the year to support employees in achieving their goals.
Annual performance reviews for 2021 were 
completed in 2022, and consisted of:1.
Past-year summary of actions and r
esults
2. Performance and development goals f
or the
new year
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Collectively in 2021, employees 
spent a total of 376,000 hours 
in learning and development.On average, our global employees 
received a total of 23.7 hours of 
training and development, comprised 
of 7.9 hours of formal training 
and 15.8 hours of informal or 
formal coaching, mentoring and/or 
job-shadowing. The average training and devel-
opment expenditure in 2021 was 
$278 per full-time employee.Globally, 99% of 
employees’ 2021 annual performance reviews were recorded.Male- and female- identified associates received performance reviews at the same rate.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
 ESG Performance Data Appendix
59 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Approach
At Ecolab, the safety of our employees and 
contractors is our top priority and is embedded into our company values. Our safety goals are simple: zero accidents, zero injuries and zero violations. This is a collective goal in which each employee must commit to, own and deliver on every day of the year. Year-on-year, we also strive to incrementally improve safety at all our sites to protect employees and communities.  
Our Board of Directors Safety, Health and 
Environment (SHE) Committee is the highest governing body responsible for Goal Zero and execution is managed by our Executive Safety Leadership Council and Regional Safety Leadership Councils in all regions and large markets. Our leadership teams and a network of SHE professionals around the world support employees with proven safety programs, processes, and platforms to help achieve the goals, and our training and onboarding programs provide leading metrics upon which to measure company performance.
Understanding underlying and potential risks is a critical 
component to improving safety outcomes. Our Global Safety Dashboard tracks our performance on a range of leading and lagging safety indicators and helps us measure the effectiveness of our safety programs.
Our approach to safety communications is aimed at 
encouraging employees in the field, offices and plants to embrace safety as a personal issue. We highlight different topics to raise awareness, encourage positive safety behaviors and eliminate risk.
Protecting Employee Safety  
During COVID-19
To help reduce the risks due to COVID-19, Ecolab 
established a phased pandemic model based on prevalence of the virus in the community. Ecolab established both internal and external safety 
protoc
ols based on guidance from the U.S. Centers 
for Disease C
ontrol (CDC) and other major public 
health organizations and evolve those protocols as 
we learned more about best
 practices to reduce the 
risk of COVID-
19. 
Ecolab leaders in each country have continuously 
mapped local conditions to the phased model and 
implemented the relevant protocols as their phase 
status changed throughout 2021. Additionally, 
Ecolab pro
vides many programs and tools to reduce 
risks for emplo
yees, including enhanced sick time, 
pay pro
tection, work from home support and 
personal pro
tective equipment.
Prioritizing Safet
y Everywhere
Our safety goal is always zero incidents. But Goal 
Zero is more than a numbe r
. We place great value on 
training and education, both at our o
wn facilities and 
at customer locations. We assess risk before we start work, identify and address safety issues, and remedy 
hazardous situations — at any Ecolab location and wherever we operate.  
By 2030, we aim to train and educate 100% of our 
associates to work safely 100% of the time. In 2021, we made strides toward this goal. For more detailed data, see the ESG Performance Data Appendix.
44%
REDUCTION
In Total Recordable  
Incident  Rate  (TRIR) from 
2013 base year, globallyIn Lost Time Incident 
Rate  (LTIR) from 2016 base 
year in North America39%
REDUCTION
60 ECOLAB CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
61
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |HEALTH AND SAFETY
Occupational Health and Safety  
Management Systems
Ecolab deploys systems to manage occupational 
health and safety commitments that are aligned with 
our stated Global Safety, Health and Environment 
Position including:
•Compliance with legal, regulatory, cust
omer and
other requirements applicable to Ecolab activities
and operations
•Design of processe
s and systems (covering
operations under our control) that are aligned withindustry best practices and international standardsto reduce personal injuries, ill health, motor vehicleevents, process safety incidents, environmentalreleases and other conditions with the potential tocause harm
•
Management of safety, he
alth, environmental
and security risks through a hierarchy ofcontrols, with the participation of employeesand in collaboration with suppliers, customers,communities in which we operate and other keystakeholders
•
Employee empowerment to st
op work when
conditions or behaviors are unsafe
•A robust safety cult
ure backed by leadership and
powered by employee engagement that embodiesthe belief that all incidents are preventableand working in a safe manner is a condition ofemployment
Our systematic approach to meeting these commitments cover 100% of employees globally, as well as non-employees that are directly supervised by Ecolab. We execute systems in our global operations to ensure management leadership and commitment, employee involvement/participation, coverage of legal and customer requirements, communications, risk identification and control, development of annual targets and plans, professional SHE resourcing and employee training.Our systems help ensure we meet our legal obligations in our countries of operation, including but not limited to, the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration, UK Health & Safety Executive, German Occupational and Safety Act, Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety and China’s Workplace Safety Law. 
As part of our continuous improvement efforts, we 
are continuing our multi-year process to more fully align our systems to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 45001 international standard, which builds on earlier international standards including the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001, the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) ILO-OSH Guidelines and other standards. In some cases, we are also working to align with standards promulgated by industry groups with which we partner such as the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care Management System. 
To date, approximately 32% of our workforce is 
covered by systems that have undergone internal management system audits and 19% is covered by systems that have been audited externally.
Occupational Health Services
Our Regulatory Affairs team of toxicologists, industrial hygienists and scientists conducts safety assessments of chemical products to characterize health and physical hazards in alignment with the Occupational Health and Safety Administration’s (OSHA) Hazard Communication standard and other relevant standards in jurisdictions where we operate, assess risk and generate Safety Data Sheets and labels which are made available publicly. To further assess risks, we carry out periodic occupational exposure evaluations including air monitoring, noise assessments, risk modeling and ergonomic evaluations. Toxicological studies are commissioned where necessary and relevant occupational exposure limits and control mechanisms are identified via these processes.Hazard communication training is completed globally for all newly hired employees in relevant roles. We have also issued a global Industrial Hygiene Policy to guide employees in assessing risk, monitoring contaminants when necessary, controlling occupational hazards through a hierarchy of controls and to stop work if conditions remain concerning. 
When necessary to further limit exposure, 
administrative controls are deployed such as additional, targeted training and use of personal protective equipment. Our global Personal Protective Equipment Policy requires identification of proper protective equipment for each job, employee training and systems to ensure equipment is available regardless of jurisdiction. We also offer recurring medical evaluations coordinated by contracted occupational physicians and health care providers to employees in select positions. 
Product information is provided to a contracted 
external poison control center (PCC) and transport incident call center which provide 24/7 emergency response services. We have quarterly meetings with the PCC to review incident calls, provide feedback on service quality and ensure product information is up to date.OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Employee Participation in Occupational 
Health and Safety Committees
Employee participation in our occupational health 
and safety systems is critical to maintaining our safety culture. Our physical locations including manufacturing plants, research facilities and logistics operations commonly have joint safety committees composed of hourly employees, union representatives (where applicable) and management personnel. These committees operate in an advisory capacity in accordance with applicable legal and Ecolab requirements and meet quarterly at a minimum. Our remote, sales-and-service teams also can participate in safety committees through our Safety Champion processes. Each sales district nominates a Safety Champion to represent them in health and safety matters. Safety Champions commonly work with business leaders and SHE staff to execute our safety strategy and programs and participate in monthly network meetings. 
Employee Training 
Ecolab maintains a Global Saf
ety, Health, and 
Environment Training Policy requiring all Ecolab operations to establish minimum requirements for training based on an assessment of operation-specific risk, applicable local or national laws and regulations and employee job responsibilities. This includes establishing new hire or transfer orientation training requirements. Each operation is required to determine appropriate training methods and frequencies, ensure training is delivered prior to risk exposure, document the completion of training and review training programs at least every three years. Below are a few examples of our training programs and activities.•
Manager Essentials | Instruction on safe
ty
leadership principles and behaviors for all peoplemanagers through our Manager Essentialsprogram.•
Stop Work Authority Training
 | Training to
empower employees to utilize their stop workauthority whenever they feel unsafe and when andhow to apply that authority.
•
Driver Safety Training
 | Behind-the-Wheel (BTW)
training is designed to teach vehicle control andaccident-avoidance techniques. Our goal is to have100% of our recently hired driver population tocomplete training in 2022.
•
Safety Onboarding | Divisional s
afety onboarding
processes are designed to provide newly hiredsales-and-service personnel with basic safetytraining. The training includes eight modulesof cross-divisional training (SOS® Core) andadditional division-specific content. In 2021, ourtarget was to have 100% of employees completeSafety Onboarding training within their first30 days of employment. We achieved an 89%completion rate.
Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment 
and Incident Investigation    
Our Global Risk Assessment P
olicy outlines 
requirements for all divisions, functions and markets 
to assess, communicate and control operational hazards and risks for routine and non-routine tasks and emergency situations. The policy requires these risks be managed through a hierarchy of controls which prioritizes eliminating hazards and substituting less hazardous materials or processes over using engineering controls, administrative controls and personal protective equipment. Formal risk assessments completed by trained safety professionals are made available to all employees that have the potential to be exposed to certain risks and are used to better target controls and training. Personal risk assessments are completed by all employees prior to the completion of daily tasks and all new hires are trained in our personal risk assessment methodology. To ensure the quality of these processes, Ecolab has developed numerous employee training programs, guidance documents and tools to improve our risk assessment techniques.  Through our Global Risk Assessment Policy, Global 
Safety, Health & Environment Position and Code of 
Conduct, we empower all employees to report work-
related hazards and conditions, and to stop work 
when conditions or behaviors are unsafe. Our global 
Code of Conduct establishes personal responsibility 
for establishing and maintaining a safe workplace 
and requires employees to promptly report health 
and safety concerns to their supervisor, regional SHE 
representative, Human Resources representative or 
if necessary, appropriate emergency authorities. We 
also deploy electronic, web-based tools throughout 
our global operations to assist all employees and 
non-employees under our control in reporting 
incidents, near miss events and general hazards. Our 
proactive approach to risk identification at our 
locations and customer facilities enhances our 
comprehensive safety program and improves results. 
In 2021, our achievements included:
•More than 206,000 safety ob
servations
•More than 29,000 commentary driv
es to improve
driving techniques and safety practices
•More than 14,000 drivers using the Virt
ual Risk
Manager driving application to help improve driving
techniques and safety practices
•113 safety audits – due to CO
VID-19, many of which
were done remotely
Our Incident Investigation Policy outlines responsibilities and processes for investigating all incidents, including near miss events, within 24 to 48 hours (depending on severity). Investigations are designed to identify hazards, risks and root causes associated with an incident. Corrective actions to reduce future risk are identified based on the hierarchy of controls, and we periodically review action closure and effectiveness to continuously improve the system.
62
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Emergency Response Program and Procedures
Our goal is to have zero safety incidents. However, 
incidents and emergencies involving worker safety, chemical spills or releases, natural disasters or other product or operational incidents can happen. To prepare for these unlikely events, we are committed to implementing and maintaining strong emergency preparedness and response systems to control, mitigate and minimize the impact on safety, property and the environment. This is part of our commitment to the safety of our workers and the communities where we operate. 
Ecolab’s Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) 
Committee of the Board is responsible for overseeing potential risks requiring emergency response, as well as the effectiveness of emergency preparedness and response systems. 
We maintain enterprise-wide guidelines on how to 
prepare for and respond to emergencies including Incident Management Plans and Crisis Notification and Reporting Procedures. In addition, we have emergency response teams and business continuity plans in place at all levels of the organization including at the site, country, region and enterprise levels. Our manufacturing plants regularly test our emergency response plans with local first response agencies and we host regular crisis training sessions throughout the world. 
We regularly review our emergency management 
programs across our businesses to ensure that they are functioning as intended and identify opportunities for continuous improvement. Following an incident, we conduct a thorough review, sharing key learnings and recommendations with emergency response teams and senior leadership, and adjust crisis plans for future use.
Prevention and Mitigation of Impacts 
at Customer Locations
Our health and safety management systems are 
designed to minimize risks in all our operations, including delivering products and services to customers worldwide. Our Regulatory Affairs team, which includes more than 200 scientists and professionals operating in 35 countries with backgrounds in chemistry, microbiology, toxicology, trade compliance and other disciplines, ensures we minimize product risks. In addition, we deploy training, risk assessment and mitigation techniques to ensure our team of more than 25,000 sales-and-service professionals operate safely as they conduct business at customer locations. We have also developed a global Customer Site Safety policy designed to foster cooperation with customers on health and safety issues and provide foundational requirements for safe operation.
63 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
COMMUNITY INVO LVMENT 
Community Giving
Since 1986, the Ec olab Foundation has implemented 
community impact programs to support communities 
where our employees live and work, focusing on 
giving to local non-profit organizations in four 
strategic areas: youth and education, civic and 
community development, arts and culture and 
environment and conservation. Since the inception of 
the Ec olab Foundation, the company has contributed 
more than $139 million to non-profit organizations.
In 2021, Ecola b and its emp loyees commit ted more than 
$41 million to local communi ties through Foundation and 
corporate giving, in-kind d onations and employee givi ng 
and volunteer ism (using th e value of volunteerism per 
Independent S ector). Of thi s, employees ga ve nearly $ 3 
million to nonp rofit organizations around the world 
through the Ecolab Community  Giving Progr am. 
Approximately 28% of the Ecolab Foundation’s funds 
in 2021, or $2.2 million, were committed to 590 
unique organizations (including matching funds to employee donations) supporting youth education 
and development. Grants were awarded to well-
known youth organizations such as Boys and Girls 
Clubs and Junior Achievement, as well as to local 
after-school and in-school programs in communities 
where our employees live and work. 
In 2021, Ecolab provided $1.1 million of direct and 
indirect funding to Saint Paul Public Schools in our 
global headquarters city of St. Paul, MN, where 53% 
of students are eligible for free or reduced-price 
lunch. In addition to continued funding for 
the Ecolab Teacher Grant Program, where staff and 
teachers apply for programs and materials directly 
impacting district aligned student achievement goals 
in their schools and classrooms, Ecolab approved 
grants to community partners that work with Saint 
Paul Public Schools. Ecolab has targeted 
partnerships with schools on the West side of Saint 
Paul where we specifically support programming 
at Humboldt Schools, Riverview West Side School 
of Excellence and Cherokee Heights Elementary  
School. Examples of directly funded initiatives  
include college preparatory and access programs(AVID and College Possible), S.T.E.M. in-class and out-
of-class offerings, and subsidized admission to 
performing arts organizations. 
Another of the Ecolab Foundation’s focus areas is 
that of civic and community development. In 2021, 
$5.5 million of grant funding supported organizations 
that provide basic needs to our most vulnerable 
citizens: access to food, housing and job training. Of 
the 413 nonprofits who were awarded grants through 
the Foundation’s Nonprofit Grant Program, 89.5% of 
them indicated that their grant addresses decreasing 
disparities for one or more of these groups: 
ethnically diverse (non-white) individuals, individuals 
with disabilities, LGBTQ+ individuals, veterans, 
women and girls or another area of diversity.
Through the Ecolab Foundation’s Dollars for Doers 
and Board Leadership programs, employees can 
apply for grants to qualifying non-profit agencies 
where they undertake 25+ hours of volunteer work 
annually or board leadership involvement. In 2021, 
134 grants were distributed under these programs 
totaling more than $55,000. 
Ecolab also recognizes the giving spirit of our 
employees and their desire to make financial 
contributions in their communities. Through the 
Global Ecolab Community Giving Program, Ecolab 
Foundation matches 50% of employee donations, up 
to $1,000, per employee per year (some restrictions 
apply). In 2021, the Ecolab Community Giving 
Program raised nearly $3 million for more than 
2,600 nonprofits around the world and the 
Foundation matched employees’ requested donations 
totaling $575,000. Taking into account total 
employee engagement impact in 2021, including 
employee personal donations, the Foundation match 
to those personal donations, the value of volunteer 
grants and volunteer hours, the total impact to 
nonprofit organizations through these employee 
engagement initiatives was $4.2 million. 
64 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
COMMUNITY INVO LVMENT 
We are committed to empowering employees to 
give back in communities where we have significant 
operations. To facilitate local engagement and impact, 
we have Community Relations Councils in 16 regional 
locations around the U.S. involving close to 100 local 
Ecolab employee volunteers who help administer 
the Ecolab Foundation Nonprofit Grant Program. 
These local employees are most in touch with the 
needs of their communities and are well equipped 
to help determine which organization they believe 
contributions can have the greatest impact. In 2021, 
these committees help administer 297 grants to non-
profits and schools totaling $1.5 million. 
Volunteerism
In the second year of the global COVID-19 pandemic 
that necessitat
ed many employees continue to work 
from home, volunteer activities continued to be offered 
virtually and we saw the ongoing delay of projects, 
although some were able t
o be held safely outside. 
Nonetheless, Ecolab employees were engaged a
s an 
asset to their communities, giving t
ime and talent.   In 2021, 1,491 employees volunteered in at least one 
effort for an  average of 0.3 volunteer hours per global 
employee. This provided a value of $414,480 to 
employees
' local communities. 
Community Partnerships
Solutions for Life is Ecolab’s global giving program 
that enhances our mission to conserve water 
and improve hygiene around the world through 
collaborations with non-governmental organizations 
(NGOs), global philanthropy and employee 
volunteerism. Solutions for Life is funded by Ecolab 
through the Ecolab F
oundation. Through Solutions for 
Life, Ecolab supports the work of strategic global 
nonprofit partners such as The Nature Conservancy, 
Project WET Foundation and Water.org.
The Nature Conservancy 
Ecolab continues to support its partnership with The 
Nature Conservancy (TNC) securing and restoring 
water sources around the globe. Region-specific 
examples of positive impacts from our partnership 
with TN
C in Brazil, China,  Mexico and the United 
States are available in the Biodiversity and 
Adaptation section of this report. Project WET
Through our partnership with the Project WET 
(Water Education for Teachers) Foundation, children 
around the globe are learning about water 
conservation and hygiene through a youth-focused 
curriculum, called the Clean and Conserve Education 
Program . Since launching the partnership in 2014, 
the program has reached more than eight million 
individuals in 98 countries with its fun, hands-on 
lessons about water conservation and healthy 
hygiene practices. The Clean and Conserve 
curriculum resources, along with training videos, can 
be downloaded in multiple languages free of charge. 
In addition, Ecolab sponsors Project WET’s 
Discoverwater.org, an interactive website that hosts 
free activities – currently available in English, 
Spanish
 and Mandarin – about the role of water in 
our lives. In 2021, the website welcomed 200,000 
unique users.
Water.org
Ecolab
 continues its partnership with Wate
r.org to 
enable access to sustainable drinking water and 
improved sanitation
 for 100,000 people living in 
poverty in India, while contributing more than 26 
million
 gallons (~98,000 cubic meters) of water per 
year to watershed health in extremely
 high-stress river 
basins.
Our partnership with Water.org is an example of 
how we are taking action to help build community 
and economic resilience and equitable access to 
freshwater. These efforts are in alignment with our 
commitment to United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goal 6, which calls for access to water 
and sanitation for
 all by 2030, as part of our 2030 
Impact Goals.14,523
volunteer hours, globallyVOLUNTEER METRICS
1,491
individual volunteers3,644
volunteer events (in 30 countries)
10 hours 
average contributed  
per volunteer
65 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT  SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
COMMUNITY INVO LVMENT 
Disaster Response
As the world’s leading supp lier of cleaning and sanitizing 
products and solutions, Ecolab  is proud of our in-kind 
donation program which provi des needed cleaning and 
sanitizing products to organi zations in areas where 
natural disasters have occu rred. In 2021, $32 million 
worth of Ecolab products went  to worldwide relief 
efforts in partnership with non-profits, such as the 
World Emergency Relief, to areas affected by COVID-19. 
Donations were distributed i n locations around the 
globe including Barbados, C ambodia, Canada, Costa 
Rica, Croatia, Ghana, Gree ce, India, Jordan, Lebanon, 
Moldova, Puerto Rico, South Afr ica, the United Arab 
Emirates and the United States.
Measuring our Impact
Annually, we solicit grants feedback via our Impact 
Survey to nonprofit grantees. The survey gathers 
information to assess the effectiveness of Ecolab 
Foundation grants. This process measures the overall 
difference Ecolab’s grants make for the organizations 
and communities served, such as how the grant helps 
grantees expand program reach, improve outcomes, 
develop new programs and enhance internal capacity. 
Results are utilized by Ecolab Foundation staff to 
better understand how our investments are making a 
difference in our communities. 
In the most recent Impact Survey of Ecolab Foundation 
grant recipients:
•98% said they accomplished or reached their goal(s)
•92% reported Ecolab grants made a difference in
relation to their overall organizational goals
•79% reported the grant from Ecolab allowed theorganization to improve existing and/or provide newservices/products
•
 68% reported the grant increased their organization’sprofile, brand awareness and reputation
•
61% reported their clients/constituents developednew or improved existing skills because of the grantfrom Ecolab
66
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |67
GOVERNANCE
A Leader in Corporate 
Responsibility
Our work is guided by a commitment to our 
purpose and values. We know that to achieve our work to make the world cleaner, safer and healthier, we need to operate ethically, responsibly and transparently. 
The work we do matters, and the way we do it 
matters to our associates, customers, investors and the communities in which we and our customers operate. Our ethical reputation is one of our greatest assets and alongside our governance structures, policies and practices, provides a solid foundation upon which we build trust with our stakeholders. OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE
Ecolab is committed to strong corporate governance 
in accordance with Ecolab’s mission and purpose. The 
business and affairs of the Company are managed 
under the overall direction of the Board of Directors 
to support sustainable solutions to e conomic, 
environmental and social issues. To assist i t in 
carrying out its duties, the Board has delegated 
certain authority to five standing committees: Audit, 
Compensation, Finance, Governance and 
Safety, 
Health & Environment.INTEGRITY AND ETHICS 
We are committed to upholding the highest legal 
and ethical standards, regardless of when and where 
we conduct business . To that end, we have adopted 
specific standards, policies and procedures to help us 
maintain our commitment. Ecolab has an established 
Global Compliance department which is led by 
the Chief Compliance Officer, along with regional 
compliance leaders. In addition, Compliance and 
Ethics committees meet at least biannually in each 
region to help ensure strong communication with 
regional leadership. 
Available in 27 languages, our Code of Conduct (Code) 
is the foundation of our integrit
y and ethics principles 
and applies to all Ecolab Directors, officers and 
employees and serves as a guide for how to act and 
make ethical decisions in compliance with the Code 
and the laws of the countrie s wher e we do business. 
Employ ee Training
All new employees participate in a facilitated two-
hour training session on the C
ode of Conduct and 
are required to read the Code and acknowledge 
compliance. On an annual basis, all Ecolab employees 
and almost all contingent workers are required to 
participate in an online or in-person training course 
and provide certification of completion and 
compliance
. In addition, all governance body members 
are required to certify compliance with the Code 
every year. Our annual goal is to have 100% of global 
employees, including all senior managers,
 complete 
the training and certify to comply. In 2021, we had a 
99% global completion rate. The Code of Conduct 
does not apply to third-party organizations providing 
security personnel to Ecolab facilities.
The Code of Conduct training 
includes education 
on relevant laws and regulations. In addition, targeted 
specialized training for those employees in certain 
areas or functions is also provided. For example, 
employees in accounting and finance roles receive training specific to that function, and certain 
employees may be required to take anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption training based on relevant business 
responsibilities or interactions.  
Conflicts of Interest
Under Ecolab’s Code of Conduct, employees are 
required to disclose any potential conflict of 
interest. A conflict of interest disclosure form is 
available for employees to use and is included in the 
annual Code of Conduct training. The Global 
Compliance department reviews submitted conflict 
of interest disclosures and determines if they can be 
approved. Sometimes approvals are contingent 
upon mitigation and monitoring. Conflicts that are 
not disclosed through this process may be 
problematic and may be investigated under Ecolab’s 
Code of Conduct program. 
Business Security
Under Ecolab’s Code of Conduct, we require that 
employees protect Ecolab’s confidential information, 
as well as our customers’, and suppliers’. To help 
accomplish this, Ecolab has a Chief Privacy Officer as 
well as an Information Technology (IT) Security 
department that partner to help protect confidential 
information and data. Ecolab has policies and 
procedures in place to help employees understand 
how to handle sensitive data. Employees are required 
to complete IT Security training on an annual basis. In 
addition, certain IT security controls are put in place 
as additional measures.  
Advisory Services 
Ecolab requires oversight of advisors by requiring 
that the procurement of such vendors follow 
our internal global procurement policies, and that 
there are no known conflicts with 
Ecolab 
employees. If a concern is 
brought forward 
against an advisor, the Global Compliance 
department would investigate the allegation 
utilizing formal process and procedures. 12
Board members
92%
independent Board 
members
42%
female representation
17%
e
thnically and /or 
racially diverseBOARD STATISTICS
68 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
INTEGRITY AND ETHICS 
Records and Data Accuracy 
Under Ecolab’s Code of Conduct, employees are 
required to accurately report f inancial records and 
are prohibited from falsifying data. In addition, the 
internal Audit department conducts operational, anti-
bribery and anti-corruption audits to
 help ensure that 
data is accurate. Certain data analytics tools are used 
to allow 
for larger data samples to 
gain greater 
assurance of data accuracy across the global 
enterprise. Ecolab also sets forth records 
management requirements in its Global Records 
Management Policy and Global Records Retention 
schedule.
Reporting Mechanisms
Employees have the option to 
report a Code concern 
to their manager, the Human Resources, Compliance 
or Law departments, or Ecolab’s third-party Code of 
Conduct helpline or web reporting service which are 
utilized by internal and external reporters to convey 
concerns and is available 24 hours a day, seven days a 
week. All reports of potential Code o
f Conduct 
violations are thoroughly investigated, and mitigation 
steps are put in place. Ecolab’s Global Compliance 
department leads all company
 investigations to 
ensure they are thorough, consistent
 and appropriate 
action is taken, which may include disciplinary 
measures up to, and including, termination. Ecolab 
prohibits retaliation. 
Ecolab has a Global Investigations and Reporting 
Process that is followed for
 internal investigations to 
ensure that each investigation is thorough, fair, 
accurate and timely. If certain legal concerns arise, 
Ecolab may engage outside counsel.  
Ecolab has a worldwide whistleblower program 
managed by the Global Compliance department which 
ensures that reports are investigated in a timely 
manner and consistent action is taken based on the 
results of the investigation. The Global Compliance  department will recommend appropriate action based 
on the circumstances of each matter but also aligning 
with action taken in other similar cases. Investigation 
data and certain key case details are reported to the 
Audit Committee of the Board of
 Directors by the 
Chief Compliance Officer on a quarterly basis.
Compliance
Ecolab’s compliance and ethics assessment 
methodology is based on the need to assess risks that 
have the greatest potential
 for legal, financial, 
operational or reputational damage.
 The Compliance 
Department conducts assessments to monitor 
compliance with the Code of Conduct and globalgovernance and ethics regulations. Our annual 
compliance assessment is led by the Global 
Compliance department and 
is designed to identify 
legal and regulatory compliance risks in 14 risk areas, 
including the assessment of human rights issues. The 
assessment is separate from the enterprise-wide risk 
assessment led by the internal Audit department but 
is aligned and reported to the internal Audit 
department as a part of their reporting process. Our 
annual Code of Conduct audit is completed by the 
Audit department. Results from the assessment and 
audit are reported to the Audit Committee of the 
Board of Directors on an annual basis by Ecolab’s 
Chief Compliance Office
r.
69 ECOLAB CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
ANTI-CORRUPTION
We monitor and identify issues through our 
comprehensive anti-bribery and anti-corruption program which includes:
• A detailed Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures
• Required training for applicable employees
•Required anti-bribery and anti-corruption training
for medium- and high-risk third-party intermediaries
•
Required anti-corruption due diligence process for
third-party intermediaries
• Guidance, resources and tools to help employees
understand Ecolab’s requirements
• Articles and communications
•
An anti-bribery and anti-corruption audit program
• Compliance and Ethics committees in all regions to
help identify and mitigate risk
Policy and Procedures
Ecolab’s Anti-Corruption Policy is designed for 
compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act (FCPA) and applicable anti-corruption laws in 
the countries in which we do business. Ecolab’s Anti-
Corruption Policy is available in 24 languages and 
requires all intermediaries operating or exporting 
outside the United States to sign and maintain 
current anti-corruption undertakings 
communicating our policies. 
The Anti-Corruption Policy provides extensive 
guidance on the requirements for engaging 
with third parties. The associated procedures 
are risk-based, meaning in higher risk countries 
and business units, more extensive procedures 
are required. 
The procedures generally include 
a business manager qualification form, third-party 
questionnaire, a background check and internal 
approval requirements. All third-party 
intermediaries globally are required to follow this 
rigorous approval process.
The purpose of the procedures is to obtain the 
necessary information for our evaluation and 
review of a third party’s business, skill, capabilities and ability to comply with our legal  
and ethical standards. Ecolab is then able to 
determine whether a third party shares our values, 
in the following ways:
• Companies that have sound anti-corruption
programs and openly report have a competitive
advantage beyond meeting any compliance
obligation. They benefit from risk reduction, cost
savings and sustainable growth.
• Companies can demonstrate their response
to the legal obligation and
 responsibility to
reduce the risk of corruption that represents a
commitment to operate an ethical business.
Ecolab’s Anti-Corruption Policy requires all 
intermediaries t
o execute anti-corruption 
undertakings. If a third party refuses to comply 
with Ecolab’
s Anti-Corruption Policy, this raises a 
significant risk and can lead to the termination of the 
relationship. We also require certain vendors, 
including a third party, to certify that they have not 
and will not violate basic anti-corruption laws, and 
this is a condition to do business on Ecolab’s behalf.
Finally, Ecolab’s Anti-Corruption Policy requires 
continuous monitoring of third-party compliance with 
our values. We require existing third parties to 
undergo an approval process every three to four 
years, depending on certain risk-based factors. Based 
on these risk factors, 
Ecolab will perform an internal 
attribute-based access control (ABAC) audit, and if 
necessary, audit the third parties to ensure they are 
in compliance with our Anti-Corruption Polic
y. 
Training 
Ecolab’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 
are communicated through the annual Code of 
Conduct training, which is mandatory for all 
employees and almost all contingent workers 
globally. In addition, annual online anti-corruption 
training is mandatory for all employees that have 
relevant business responsibilities or interactions. 
More detailed anti-corruption training is provided 
to senior leaders in all markets and in high-risk REGION  2021
Asia Pacific  100%
Europe  97%
Greater China  100%
India, Middle East & Africa  98%
Latin America  95%
North America  99%
Total 98%ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING 
EMPLOYEE COMPLETION RATESlocations. Medium- and h igh-risk third-party 
intermediaries are also required to complete 
Ecolab’s anti-corruption training.
70 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |Overall, there was a 
98% completion rate 
of anti-corruption training in 2021.
Audit Program
As part o f the company’s internal audit program, 
approximately 30 audits are completed each year 
focusing on internal/financial controls and operational 
processes, out of approximately 105 auditable units 
including countries, divisions and departments. Of 
these units, approximately 55 are individual country 
operating locations which are audited over a four- to 
five-year cycle. In these operational audits, 
procedures 
include testing controls relevant to 
Ecolab’s anti-corruption program. In addition, six anti-
corruption specific audits were completed in 2021 as 
part o f Ecolab’s anti-corruption program. The Global 
Compliance department also completes various 
assessments for markets and business units, including 
recently acquired operations. F
ew significant risks 
were identified and risks relating to the use of third-
party intermediaries were the highest risk area 
identified.OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
HUMAN RIGHTS 
Ecolab is committed to enhancing the well-being 
of people and communities around the world and has established formal policies and procedures to ensure human rights are respected across our global operations and supply chain.  
Policy
We are committed to respecting international human rights standards, as defined by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights which include the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We operate in alignment with the policies and procedures outlined in the SA8000 Standard which seek to protect basic human rights of workers. We aspire to create an inclusive and respectful work environment, establish decent working conditions and work to eliminate all forms of child and forced labor, discrimination, anti-corruption and bribery. We have regional programs in place to assess conformity with these policies and commitments. In addition, Ecolab undertakes compliance and ethics assessments to better understand human rights related risks.
Supporting Policies and Positions
•Our Code of Conduct contains detailed humanrights aspects relev
ant to our operations and
requires Ecolab employees to report any potentialhuman rights issues.
•
Our Ethical Sourcing Standar
ds communicate
to our vendors and business partners ourexpectations on human rights and ethics and ourstandards for operation, including addressingimplications of the UK Modern Slavery Act and theCalifornia Transparency in Supply Chains Act.
•
Our Supplier Code of Conduct se
ts out
expectations for suppliers in the areas of integrity,ethical and legal standards and compliance amongother topics.•Our Anti-Human Trafficking Policy communicates our expectations around slavery and human tr
afficking.
•Our Conflict Minerals Policy supports human rightsorganizations to end violence and atrocities inCentral Africa, specifically the Democratic Republicof the Congo (DRC) and nine adjoining countries.
Due Diligence Processes 
We conduct annual assessments led by the Global 
Compliance department to identify legal and 
regulatory compliance risks in 14 risk areas, including 
the assessment of human rights issues. 
Recommendations from the assessment process 
result in the creation of action plans and corrective 
actions or remediation, if deemed appropriate. 
Effectiveness of these actions are tracked through 
supplier audit results, legal review results, work-
related accident results, operational audit results 
and Code of Conduct data. Reports are provided to 
top management and the Audit Committee of the 
Board of Directors.
To evaluate and address the risk of human trafficking 
and slavery in supply chains, Ecolab has developed 
a detailed supplier ethical assessment that top 
suppliers in parts of Ecolab’s business where there 
is an elevated risk of slavery and human trafficking 
must complete to verify compliance with Ecolab’s 
ethical sourcing requirements. Suppliers must also 
agree to Ecolab’s Supplier Code of Conduct.
Disclosure
It is Ecolab’s policy to disclose any human rights 
controversies which may relate to child employment, 
female or minority rights infringement, or other 
issues pertaining to human rights as defined by 
the EEOC. No fines related to human rights issues 
have been levied against the company by any 
governmental organization in the past five years.
71 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
SUPPLIER RELATIONS 
Approach
Our Supplier Code of Conduct includes expectations 
around human rights, ethics, labor rights, employment law, health and safety, environment, fair competition and supplied materials. The Supplier Code applies to the selection and retention of all suppliers that provide goods and/or services to Ecolab worldwide, including raw material suppliers, semi-finished or finished goods suppliers, packaging suppliers, contractors, contract manufacturers and service providers/suppliers. Suppliers are expected to comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct in the course of doing business with Ecolab and its employees. To ensure full understanding of these expectations, Ecolab publishes this policy in 13 languages. 
Suppliers are expected to comply with all applicable 
country labor, employment and environmental laws and regulations, and meet our Ethical Sourcing Standards regarding forced labor, child labor, health and safety in the workplace, fair pay, harassment, diversity, ethics and environmental policies. Our supplier requirements are based on international standards including the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO) including its Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 
Environmental Considerations
We require that suppliers have systems in place to prevent and mitigate pollution, avoid the use of hazardous materials where possible, engage in reuse and recycling activities, avoid environmental impacts with the potential to adversely impact human health or the environment and have systems in place to conserve and optimize the use of natural resources sustainably, such as energy, water and materials.The scope of our sourcing requirements includes the 
carbon emissions footprint of our individual suppliers 
(Scope 3), as well as the total carbon impact of our 
own supply chain (Scope 1 and 2). When analyzing 
our suppliers carbon impact, which is comprised of 
over 15,500 direct and indirect suppliers, we found 
that their carbon footprint is ten times larger than 
our own. 
As part of Ecolab’s science-based emissions 
reduction target, Ecolab has committed to work with 
suppliers representing 70% of Scope 3 emissions 
(covering purchased goods and services, capital 
goods, upstream transportation and distribution, 
business travel, and downstream transportation 
and distribution) to set ambitious carbon reduction 
targets aligned with the science-based target 
methodology by 2024. 
In 2021, Ecolab launched our first supplier 
sustainability survey to over 400 different suppliers 
to assess their current carbon and water reduction 
targets. Through this process, we found that 
suppliers accounting for 25% of Scope 3 emissions 
covering purchased goods and services, and 
downstream transportation have set, or are in the 
process of setting, science-based targets. Overall, 
suppliers who have already set science-based 
targets account for 6.5% of Scope 3 emissions 
(covering purchased goods and services, capital 
goods, upstream transportation and distribution, 
business travel, and downstream transportation and 
distribution). By working with our supply chain 
partners to adopt aggressive climate goals, Ecolab is 
accelerating meaningful action to mitigate climate 
change. Screening Process
Our suppliers go through a methodical screening 
process before being added to our portfolio, which 
includes detailed legal, financial, operational, quality 
and reputational risk assessments. For high-risk 
suppliers and suppliers deemed critical to Ecolab’s 
business, we conduct on-site assessments. 
Ecolab’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethical 
Sourcing Standards are used to screen 100% of 
new suppliers for social and environmental criteria. 
In addition, we have published an Anti-Human 
Trafficking Policy and Conflict Minerals Policy which 
communicat e additional de
tails on our expectations 
for suppliers. To ensure compliance with our Conflict 
Minerals Policy , ne
w suppliers are asked if they have 
their own internal program/policy and if they have 
identified the risk it presents in their supply chain.  
72 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |Training
To reinforce supplier expectations internally, we 
conduct an online, annual training for Supply Chain, 
Research and Development and Regulatory Affairs 
associates to help them identify environmental, 
ethical and labor concerns when interacting with 
suppliers. This training encourages associates to 
report concerns via the Code of Conduct hotline. 
Results from the training are shared with leadership 
and utilized to identify additional training needs. OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
SUPPLIER RELATIONS 
Ongoing Supplier Assessments 
Ecolab conducts a biannual ethical sourcing survey 
to assess high-risk suppliers identified through internal assessments and reporting from third-party organizations such as Human Rights Watch and Transparency International. The ethical sourcing survey evaluates compliance with Ecolab’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethical Sourcing Standards and covers health and safety, ethics, employment practices, diversity, harassment, environmental policy and environmental sustainability, including energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, waste management and water consumption.
To evaluate and address risks of human trafficking 
and slavery in its supply chains, Ecolab developed a supplier ethical assessment. In parts of Ecolab’s business where there is an elevated risk of slavery and human trafficking, suppliers complete this assessment to verify compliance with Ecolab’s ethical sourcing requirements. Ecolab has required such suppliers in the chemical, packaging, equipment and contract manufacturing categories to complete the assessment, and we plan to expand the number and scope of suppliers required to complete the assessment.
The U.S. Department of Labor issues an annual List 
of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, which is generally consistent with lists issued by organizations such as Walk Free Foundation. The 2021 U.S. Department of Labor List identifies 156 goods produced by child labor and/or forced labor in 77 countries. Goods on the List that are, or may be, in Ecolab’s global supply chain include palm oil from Malaysia and Indonesia and silica-based products and electrical components/electronics from China.Ecolab’s Global Procurement team has begun monitoring multiple sources of information on 
forced labor to identify potential risks within our 
supply chain. In 2022, a fo rced  labor survey was 
conducted and targeted su ppliers that we believed 
were of higher risk based on location, commodity  
and spend. Suppliers were  questioned not only 
on their policies, but o n management practices  
and specific performance related to protection 
of employees’ human rights  and prevention and 
elimination of traf ficking and slaver y. Th e Ecolab 
Procurement team also monito rs suspected 
incidents of traf ficking or slavery iden tified by 
governmental agencies su ch as the U.S. Customs & 
Border Patrol and requires suppliers of potentially 
impacted products to verify that no products 
supplied to Ecolab are sour ced from entities 
suspected of traf ficking or slaver y.
Ecolab’s business lines, including the manufacture 
and sale of cleaning chemicals and provision of 
wate r, hygiene and infection prevention services to 
other businesses, have not been identified by the 
International Labor Organizations’ (ILO), Walk Free 
or other organizations as high-risk industries. Of 
the twenty countries with the highest estimated 
prevalence of modern slavery, based on the Walk 
Free Foundation Global Slavery Index, Ecolab does 
business in three countries, including Nicaragua, 
Russia and China representing approximately 
7% of Ecolab’s global procurement spend and 
1,073 suppliers. We have not received reports of 
evidence or indications of modern slavery within our 
operations or our industry secto r.
Reporting
We have established a Code of Condu ct hotline to 
facilitate reporting of potent ial violations by internal 
and external stakeholders. Any concerns flagged 
through the ethical sourcing  survey or Code of 
Conduct hotline are fully investigated, and mitigation 
steps are put in place to improve supplier performance 
and eliminate risk. If signifi cant and urgent concerns 
are identified that cannot be  remediated, suppliers are 
removed from Ecolab’s approved list. 
73 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Approach
Supplier diversity at Ecolab means driving equitable 
competition and economic inclusion. We believe:
• The best teams and partners are diverse and
inclusive.
• Solving complex problems requires diverse
perspectives and experiences.
• Driving our partner marketplace to equitably
reflect our diverse society is core to our values.
Doing so makes us more attractive to
customers, employees and investors, an
employer of choice and a stronger partner to
both our customers and the communities in
which we live, work and serve.
We define diverse suppliers as a small business 
as defined by CFR Title 13, Chapter 1, Part 121, or a supplier certified by one of the following organizations or agencies: National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC), National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC), Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC), US Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce (USPAACC), Disability:IN, federal government agencies – including Veteran Affairs agencies – and/or state or local government agencies.  Goals
In 2021, Ecolab continued to make progress on elevating supplier diversity goals and objectives across the enterprise. Plans and measures were shared frequently with executive leadership on goal progress, and we ensured the appropriate targets, resources and tools were put in place to double our spend with diverse suppliers by 2022.
In 2021, we implemented the following actions 
to increase diverse supplier spend and supplier outreach and engagement:•
Updated North America Procurement P
olicy
to include diverse suppliers in all go-to-marketsourcing activities where a diverse supplier canmeet product and customer requirements
•
Added external partnerships with Minorit
y Supplier
Development United Kingdom (MSDUK) and theUnited States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce(USHCC)
•
Participated in and sponsored local and nationalbusine
ss outreach activities
•Implemented first phase of a supply chainext
ended reporting program (Tier 2)
•Increased training and awareness within theprocurement organization and among businessstakeholders
To continue this progress, we will rely on our strong foundation of sound procurement practices and advanced data and analytics, expand our base of strong customer and partner relationships and implement several key growth opportunities to reach our 2022 goals.  Making Measurable Progress
Ecolab’s 2021 spend with diverse suppliers totaled 
approximately $204 million, or 5.4% of all U.S. 
procurement spend. This is a 96% increase over 
our reported 2020 spend of $105M. Ecolab 
conducted business with over 650 diverse suppliers 
in all categories of diverse spend in 2021, 
representing a 30% increase over 2020. 
Supporting Local Suppliers 
Fundamentally, we choose to buy from suppliers 
within the ma rkets in which we operate that abide 
by the ethical and sustainability goals s
et forth by 
our company. We b
ase our p
urchasing decisions 
on safety, quality, service and price, opting t
o 
purchase within the market whenever possible 
to m
inimize emissions from shipping materials 
overseas a
nd support local economies. More than 
90% o
f our purchases are from local suppliers 
within our markets.
Local community is defined as the major markets in 
which we operate, including Asia Pacific, Europe, 
Greater China, India, Middle East and Africa, Latin 
America and North America. Significant locations of 
operations are defined as our manufacturing 
facilities and operation centers within the markets 
in which we operate. 
74 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
POLITICAL ACTION
Public Policy 
Engaging with policymakers is one means of
 
furthering our sustainability objectives. We 
communicate with policymakers in proactive policy discussions, bringing our market segment and scientific expertise to the table on water, waste, food safety and customer health issues to ensure public policy decisions are grounded in principles of sound science. Ecolab engages with federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies, industry and customer trade associations and non-government organizations that provide a forum for environmental policy discussion relevant to our industry. These include a diverse set of stakeholders which focus on water-related issues and climate mitigation and adaptation issues to influence climate policy. 
We maintain a formal process to manage all direct 
and indirect engagement with policy makers and related organizations to ensure we have a common approach consistent with our business strategy. This process covers the scope and business impact of specific policy issues and is integrated into the annual business continuity and risk management assessment process so any activities that influence policy are evaluated for alignment with Ecolab’s strategic corporate business strategy. If inconsistent, these are immediately flagged for action by the Government Relations team. 
Political Contributions
Ecolab’s Political Contribution Policy provides an approval process for corporate political contributions by a committee of executives, as well as an annual review of the policy and political contributions by the Governance Committee of the Ecolab Board of Directors. In 2021, Ecolab Inc. contributed $30,000 to the Democratic Governors Association, $30,000 to the GOPAC, Inc. and $5,000 to the Republican Governors Association. Ecolab associates can also support the company’s political action committee, the Ecolab Inc. Political Action Committee (ECOPAC). ECOPAC, which is funded by voluntary contributions from Ecolab associates, is a nonpartisan committee that supports candidates for U.S. Congress who share our basic philosophies and values. It contributes to legislators from across the country where the company transacts business. Contributions are determined by a board of Ecolab executives based on criteria including representation of Ecolab facilities and/or significant base of employees, committee membership, committee leadership, positions on issues and partisan balance. ECOPAC does not support candidates for local or presidential office. A list of all political contributions by ECOPAC and Ecolab is posted semiannually to the Ecolab website under Political Contribution Reporting. 
Membership of Associations 
Industry and policy groups have a unique ability to influence standards, regulations and practices. Ecolab engages with a broad range of industry groups, sharing expertise and insights to help these membership organizations enhance sustainability leadership across their respective industries. 
In 2021, Ecolab actively participated in sustainability-
related work groups within the following, among others: A.I.S.E. (International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Products); American Chemistry Council; American Cleaning Institute; American Hotel & Lodging Association; Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable; Chemical Footprint Project; Consumer Goods Forum; Household and Commercial Products Association; Corporate Eco Forum; Council of Great Lakes Industries; Food Marketing Institute; Global Food Safety Initiative; Grocery Manufacturers Association; International Organization for Standardization; National Association for Environmental Management; National Association of Manufacturers; National Restaurant Association; Steel Manufacturers Association; Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council; United States Council for International Business; and World Travel and Tourism Council.
75 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL  GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT
DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY
At Ecolab, the security of our systems and solutions 
is a top priority. Our Board of Directors oversees Ecolab’s global information security strategy and program and includes a cybersecurity expert that joined the Board in 2014. Our cybersecurity strategy and programs are overseen by our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) who chairs an executive-level steering committee, the Information Security Steering Committee, and reports directly to the Chief Information Officer. 
Ecolab’s cybersecurity and privacy teams work to 
safeguard the company and customer’s data. We partner with other companies and industry leaders to help protect access to information, ensure the security of data storage and transmission and track and communicate information regarding cyber threats. We continuously test our technical defenses with internal and external trained professionals seeking to probe the company’s cybersecurity defenses and have a Security Incident Response team that is available 24/7, 365 days of the year.
Our Global Privacy Policy outlines how Ecolab uses 
and safeguards personal data, periodically reviews security measures and ensures that we are compliant with the data privacy laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This policy is published in 16 languages. 
In 2021, Ecolab had zero substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data. TAX 
Approach
The tax we pay is an integral part of our positive economic and social impact and supports the advancement of the countries in which we operate. We are committed to complying with all tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we do business and are guided by appropriate international standards as detailed in our global Tax Position . Our UK Tax Strategy Statement is also 
available on our website.
Financial Support Received 
In 2021, Ecolab received nominal monetary support, awards, tax reliefs or subsidies directly from governments. We received federal and state tax credits in the United States to support our research and development initiatives totaling approximately $21.5 million based on estimates for the 2021 tax return year. Ecolab also received a U.S. federal family medical leave credit totaling an estimated $1.2 million, a U.S. nonconventional source fuels credit of approximately $140,000 and a U.S. work opportunity credit of an estimated $310,000. Ecolab received a Dominican Republic tax holiday of $2.9 million in 2021 (valued benefit equals the difference in the statutory tax rate applied to Ecolab’s income for 2021 compared to the zero-tax paid). Anticipated tax deductions by the Australian government for research and development expenditures in Australia will total approximately $180,000 for 2021. Anticipated tax deductions in the United Kingdom for research and development expenditures in the UK will total approximately $720,000 for 2021.COMPLIANCE
In 2021, there were no new material grievances related to environmental, health and safety, product and service information and labeling or marketing communications impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms. We are aware of a relatively small number of noncompliance issues and have a proactive and robust compliance program to address them promptly and completely. None of these issues resulted in material fines or penalties to the company under applicable reporting requirements. Additional information is provided in Ecolab’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2021 in Part 1, Item 1, under Environmental Remediation and Proceedings and in Note 15 (“Litigation and Environmental Matters”). 
In 2021, our operations did not experience spills 
of material significance to our company or the communities in which we operate. There were no facilities identified or reported that may significantly impact water bodies from discharges of water and runoff. None of the river basins and water sources where Ecolab has operations are designated as protected areas (nationally or internationally). In 2021, two of Ecolab’s manufacturing facilities received monetary penalties and one facility received a Notice of Violation related to wastewater operations.  
76
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |77
APPENDIX
Ecolab is steadfast in upholding our longstanding 
commitment to our stakeholders and business strategy, while aligning with respected global frameworks. Reporting publicly and consistently on our performance demonstrates our dedication to transparency and we are committed to obtaining third-party assurance of our non-financial data to improve accountability and enhance stakeholder confidence in our reporting. 
Transparency Through  
Recognized FrameworksOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
Our global Scope 1, 2 an d 3 (business travel only)  GHG emissions are verified by a 
third party, APEX Compa nies LLC, using t he ISO 14064-3: Greenhous e Gas es - Part 3 
specification standard. Our  NOx, SOx, volatile org anic compounds and hazardous ai r 
pollutants emissions a re verified through APEX Co mpan ies LLC using the 
International Standard o n Assurance Engagements (I SAE) 3000 Revised. For more 
information, a ccess our Verification Opinion  Declaration on Greenhouse  Gas 
Emissions and Assurance Statement on Environmental Metrics.  
Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions  UNITS  2019  2020  2021Absolute Scope 1 and  
Scope 2 GHG Emissions% Reduction from 
2018 Baseline
Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions  UNITS  2019  2020  2021Direct (Scope 1) Emissions  MT CO 2e 319,180  281,241  282,199
Biogenic Emissions  MT CO 2e 127 129.5  215.8
Market-based Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions  MT CO 2e 149,995  53,885  48,800
Location-based Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions  MT CO 2e 150,256  140,254  130,778• Scope 1 emissions repor ted are independent of any G HG trades, such as pur-
chases, sales or transfers of offsets or allowances.
•The inventory includes CO 2, CH 4 and N 2O emissions from fuel consumption
and HFC emissions from refrigerant use.
•PFCs, NF 3 and SF 6 are not included since Ecolab does not use these
compounds.
•
Emissions factors used for electricity and other fuels are subregion-, country- or region-specific where applicable, using the latest databases from govern-
mental sources (i.e., United States Environmental Protection Agency’s eGRID, UK’s Defra and the International Energy Association).
•
Biogenic emissions include biodiesel and ethanol (E85) fuel use.
•United States Environmental Protection Agency’s Climate Leaders Emissionsfactors were used to calculate direct emissions.
•
Chosen consolidation approach for emissions is operational control.
• Scope 2 emissions repor ted are independent of any GHG trades, such as pur-
chases, sales or transfers of offsets or allowances.
• The inventory includes CO 2, CH 4 and N 2O emissions from electricity, heating
and cooling consumption.•Emissions factors used for electricity and other fuels are subregion-, country- or region-specific where applicable, using the latest databases from govern-mental sources (i.e., United States Environmental Protection Agency’s eGRID,UK’s Defra and the International Energy Association).
•
Chosen consolidation approach for emissions is operational control.ESG PERFORMANCE DATA
This Appendix summarizes key environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance metrics and indicators identified in our most recent materiality assessment.
YEAR  MT CO 2e %
2018  460, 055 -
2019  469, 175 -2%
2020  335, 126 27%
2021 330,999 28%Emissions Performance
78 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions  UNITS 2019 2020 2021
Purchased Goods and Services  MT CO 2e 4,748,231  4,42 7,992 4,715,805
Use of Sold Products  MT CO 2e 2,298,592  2,285,901 1,888,767
Downstream Transport
ation  MT CO 2e 716,341  559,389 371,058
Upstream Transport  MT CO 2e 310,943  133,832 165,775
Fuel-  and Energy-Related Activities MT CO 2e 83,356 100,319 104,719
Employee Commuting  MT CO 2e 72,871 76,045 80,149
Capital Goods  MT CO 2e 51,342  55,829 45,548
Business Travel  MT CO 2e 24,395 33,567
Waste Generated in Operations  MT CO 2e 24,748 24,263 31,675
End of Life of Sold Products  MT CO 2e 663 565 425
Upstream Leased Assets  MT CO 2e N/A N/A N/A
Processing of Sold Product
s MT CO 2e N/A N/A N/A
Downstream Leased As
sets MT CO 2e N/A N/A N/A
Franchises  MT CO 2e N/A N/A N/A
Investments  MT CO 2e N/A N/A N/A
Total  MT CO 2e 8,383,727 7,688,530 7,437,488
• We used Environmentally Extended Economic Input
Output (EEIO) analysis for our annual supplier and
procurement spend data. This is a categorization
model to convert $USD spend based on relevant
NAICS sector categories into carbon emissions
associated with the extraction, production and
transport of purchased goods and services, capital
goods, upstream transportation, downstream
transportation and a portion of business travel
acquired or purchased by Ecolab in the reporting
year.
• Upstream emissions from purchased fuels, elec-
tricity, steam and hot and chilled water, include
generation and T&D emissions, and any other losses
in this category. Data quality is consistent with
inputs from our global database on sustainability
metrics. Upstream emissions of purchased electric-
ity are calculated for the US and other countries by
multiplying electricity activity data by country or
region-specific emission factors from UK Defra 2021
Guidelines for GHG Reporting. Upstream emissions
from purchased fuels, steam, hot and chilled water
are calculated using emissions factors from UK
Defra 2021 Guidelines for GHG Reporting. Emissions
associated with losses were calculated for the USand other countries by multiplying the energy use 
by type by emission factors from UK Defra 2021 
Guidelines for GHG Reporting. All GWPs are from 
the IPCC Four th Assessmen t Repor t (GWP for CH4 = 
25, GWP for N2O = 298, consistent with reporting 
under the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
• Emissions from fuel and energy-related activities
include energy consumption of upstream activities
related to Scope 1 and 2 stationary fuel use, elec-
tricity, steam and hot and chilled water.
• Waste generated in operations represents global
waste emissions from waste disposed via landfill,
incineration, recycling, anaerobic digestion and
composting based on actual destination sources for
Ecolab’s hazardous and non-hazardous waste
streams. Data quality is consistent with inputs from
our global database on sustainability metrics. Data
on waste quantity are obtained and reported from
global sites. Emissions from waste are calculated
using methodologies and emission factors from the
EPA’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM), version 14,
March 2019. Landfill emissions factors are used
directly from WARM. This model bases its emissions
calculations on a life-cycle analysis, including emis-sions from the long-term decomposition of waste 
in a landfill and upstream sources/sinks. GWPs are from the IPCC (2007) Fourth Assessment Report. For all categories except landfill, the WARM method has been adjusted to align with the GHG Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard, based on emissions for transport to destination and processing of materials prior to reaching the end destination (be it recycling, incineration or other).
• The scope of business travel emissions is global.
Defra 2021 emissions factors were used to calcu-
late Scope 3 business-travel GHG emissions. Data
on air, rail and vehicle mileage is supplemented by
procurement spend data where gaps in mileage
data exist. Ecolab uses Environmentally Extended
Economic Input Output (EEIO) analysis for a
portion of its annual supplier and procurement
spend data.
79 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |76,640 
• We estimate that emissions associated with em-
ployee commuting constitute <5% of our total S3
footprint and are therefore not relevant. As of 2021,
there were 47,000 Ecolab employees globally, with
25,000 sales-and-service associates. For a portion
of the latter group, Ecolab provides company-owned
vehicles for employees to get to and from work as aOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
• The scope for use of sold products is limited to
Ecolab’s Food & Beverage and Dish machine product
categories and Nalco Water’s 3D TRASAR product
portfolio. When calculating the lifetime CO 2e we
used the following formula: Total emissions = new
unit sales in the year * estimated annual electricity
consumption * emissions factor * lifespan of
product.
•Using the sales data from the Use of Sold Products
methodology and related calculations, Ecolab
assigned product type categories with available
secondary LCA studies to estimate the end-of-lifeemissions, and related recycling, landfill and/or en-
ergy recovery rates per product category. For 
some products where product weight is readily 
available, Ecolab multiplied the weights by the 
appropriate US EPA WARM emissions factors that 
is weighted by waste destination (based on US 
EPA research into waste destinations) to calculate 
tons of CO 2e per metric ton of material disposed, 
by destination and material. GWPs are from the 
IPCC (2007) Fourth Assessment Report. 
•Ecolab does not have any franchises.
•Ecolab is not aware of any investments that could
be estimated with a carbon emissions impact.
GHG Emissions Intensity  UNITS  2019 2020  2021
Reduction of GHG Emissions  UNITS  2020  2021Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions Intensity  MT CO 2e / MT  0.15 0.12 0.11
Direct (
Scope 1) Emissions  MT CO 2e / MT  0.10 0.10 0.09
Market-Based Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions  MT CO 2e / MT  0.05 0.02  0.02
Other Indirect (
Scope 3) Emissions Intensity  MT CO 2e / MT  0.05 0.06
Asia Pacific  MT CO 2e 219 51
Europe  MT CO 2e 41 45
Greater China  MT CO 2e - -
India, Middle East, Africa  MT CO 2e 21 -
Latin America  MT CO 2e - 24
North America  MT CO 2e 120 203
Total  MT CO 2e 391 324• Gases included: CO 2, CH 4, N2O. Includes Scope 1, 2 and business travel.
• The scope of Other Indirect (Scope 3) Emissions Intensity includes fuel-  and energy-related activities, waste generated in operations and business travel.
• Intensity unit is MT of emissions per MT of product produced.
• The scope of reduction of emissions consumption data is global supply chain manufacturing facilities. The inventory includes CO 2, CH 4
and N 2O emissions from fuel consumption and HFC emissions from refrigerant use. This includes both Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
• PFCs, NF 3 and SF 6 are not included, since Ecolab does not use these compounds.
• This is a voluntarily reported metric and therefore may not represent all projects completed in 2020 and 2021.
80 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |0.07 part of their customer service job functions. We 
have estimated that two thirds of these employees 
use c ompany o
wned (e.g., Scope 1 emissions) 
vehicles for their commuting activity. The 2018 
EPA emissions factor for Global - Passenger 
Vehicles i
s .0003343 tCO2e/mile (EPA April 2022). 
We a
ssume each employee commutes 30.37 
vehicle miles per day (U.S. average according to 
the 2009 U.S. National Household 
Travel Survey). 
Assuming 261 business days in a 
year, Ecolab’s 
employee commute emissions total is less than 5% 
of our total S3 f
ootprint. Given that 
some employ-
ees worked from home in 2021 due to COVID-19, we  consider this figure to be a c onservative estimate.OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
Asia Pacific  MT CFC-11 equivalents  0.0002  0.0008  -
Europe  MT CFC-11 equivalents  - - -
Greater China  MT CFC-11 equivalents  - - -
India, Middle East, Africa  MT CFC-11 equivalents  - - -
Latin America  MT CFC-11 equivalents  - - -
North America  MT CFC-11 equivalents  - - -
Total  MT CFC-11 equivalents  0.0002  0.0008  -Ozone-Depleting Substances (OD
S) Emissions  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
No Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS) are used in the production of Ecolab products. The ODS reported are used in chiller and HVAC systems in Ecolab manufacturing 
facilities. The scope of this metric is all supply-chain manufacturing facilities, as reported. Substances included in 2019 and 2020 calculations include R22, R123 and R124A. Substances included in 2021 calculations include R123 and R124A. Emissions factors from the Montreal Protocol were used.
NOx Emissions by Region  UNITS  2019 2020  2021
SOx Emissions by Region  UNITS  2019 2020  2021
NOx and SOx Emissions Intensities  UNITS  2019  2020  2021Asia Pacific  MT 22.0 23.0 22.3
Europe  MT  16.8  17.0 16.2
Greater China  MT  1.4  1.4 1.2
India, Middle East, Africa  MT 55.2 54.3 50.1
Latin America  MT 6.4  4.5 5.5
North America  MT 569.2  475.6 507.4
Total  MT 671.0  576.9 602.7
Asia Pacific  MT 0.34 0.21 0.18
Europe  MT 0.36 0.36  0.31
Greater China  MT 0.06 0.05  0.03
India, Middle East, Africa  MT 0.11 0.02  0.15
Latin America  MT 0.09 0.09 0.07
North America  MT 0.52 0.47  0.47
Total MT 1.47 1.20 1.22
NOx Emissions Intensity  MT / MT  0.00022 0.00021 0.00020
SOx Emissions Intensity  MT / MT  0.0000004 8 0.000000 44 0.00000040
The scope of NOx and SOx reporting is global facility and fleet fuel use. Intensity unit is MT of emissions per MT of product produced.  
81 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
Energy Performance
Total Energy Use  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
Total Energy Us
e GJ 6,617,004  5,912,147  5,901,077
Tot
al Electricity Use  GJ 1,212,926  1,157,085  1,130,801
Total Rene
wable Electricity Use  GJ 125,301  791,233  783,310
Tot
al Renewable Electricity Use  % 10.3%  68.4%  69.3%
Total S
elf-Generated Energy  GJ 214,694  201,729  56,305
Electricity Sold  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
Electricity Sold GJ 1,695  4,640  6,784
Our Legacy Nalco Water he
adquarters/RD&E facility in Naperville, Illinois, has an onsite tri-generation facility that produces the majority of the electricity 
used by the facility and all the chilled water and steam used for cooling and heating the building. Any unused electricity is sold back to the grid.
Energy Consumption Outside of the Organization  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
Fuel and Energy-Relat
ed Activities (Scope 3)  MWh  203,470  267,210  366,549
Includes energy consumption of up
stream activities related to Scope 1 & 2 stationary fuel use, electricity, steam and hot and chilled water.Direct Energy Consumed by Source  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
Natural Gas  GJ 2,813,843  2,672,621  2,612,878
Gasoline  GJ 1,944,013  1,487,362  1,553,489
Dies
el GJ 532,37 4  512,583  505,657
LPG GJ 16,522  12,463  12,117
Distillate Fuel Oil (#1, 2, 4)  GJ 11,137  6,668  7,723
Residual Fuel Oil (#5
, 6) GJ 2,695  2,736  2,269
Ethanol  GJ 2,305  2,351  3,916
CNG  GJ 2 - -
Total GJ 5,322,891 4,696,784 4,698,049
Purchased Hot Water  GJ 124,620  789,536  782,619
Electricity  GJ 1,087,265  365,852  347,492
Ste
am GJ 72,452  58,278  64,390
Solar  GJ 682 1,698  691
Purchased Chilled Water  GJ 8,734  - 7,837
Total GJ 1,293,753 1,215,364 1,203,028Indir
ect Energy Consumed by Source  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
82 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
Energy Use by Region UNITS 2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific  GJ 368,870  372,171  369,758
Eur
ope GJ 597,223  587,799  559,141
Great
er China  GJ 131,722  121,456  132,131
India, Middle East and Africa  GJ 453,909  447,082  398,606
Latin America  GJ 183,831  163,151  160,366
North America  GJ 4,881,450  4,220,307  4,281,076
To
tal GJ 6,617,004 5,911,966 5,901,077
Electricity Use by Region UNITS 2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific  GJ 7 4,688  77,395  78,985
Europe  GJ 196,067  182,132  173,737
Great
er China  GJ 49,114  47,134  54,642
India, Middle East and Africa  GJ 40,311  38,187  31,618
Latin America  GJ 65,527  58,727  54,670
North America  GJ 787,221  753,329  737,149
Tot
al GJ 1,212,926 1,156,904 1,130,801
Reduction of Energy Consumption (Resulting from 
Conservation and Energy Efficiency Initiatives)  UNITS 2020 2021
Asia Pacific  kWh 377,000  175,261
Europe  kWh 364,000  236,965
Great
er China  kWh - -
India, Middle East, Africa  kWh 28,500  -
Latin America  kWh - 57,622
North America  kWh 695,000  1,109,07 4
Tot
al kWh 1,464,500 1,578,922Energy In
tensity UNITS 2019 2020 2021
Energy Use Intensit
y GJ / MT  2.152  2.155  1.938
Electricity Use Intensit
y GJ / MT  0.394  0.422  0.371
All energy and electricity use within the organization is included. 
The scope of energy consumption reductions includes global supply chain manufacturing facilities that reported energy efficiency projects. 
Energy savings represent a combination of direct measurements and estimations using best-practices methodologies, as reported. This is a voluntarily reported metric and therefore may not represent all projects completed in 2020 and 2021. 
83 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
We verify our global water withdrawal and water 
replenishment volumes through APEX Companies 
LLC using the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised. For more 
information, access our Assurance Statement on 
Environmental Metrics.  2018  8,526,998  61,600  2.73 -
2019  7,695,696  447,302  2.36  14%
2020  6,770,530  447,301  2.31 16%
2021 6,749,720 520,019 2.05 25%Water Withdrawal
Cubic meter
s UNITSReplenishment
Cubic metersWater Impact 
IntensityReduction from 
2018 Baseline
(Withdrawal – Replenishment)/MT %
Intensity unit is cubic meters of water (withdrawal – replenishment) per MT of product produced.
Water Withdrawal by Region  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
Asia Pacific  Cubic meters   389,415 335,7 47  345,147
Europe  Cubic meters  1,612,120 1,453,120 1,391,400
Greater China  Cubic meters   245,988  283,579 264,237
India, Middle East and Africa  Cubic meters  171,654  164,338  154,535
Latin America  Cubic meters   345,585  272,973 285,530
North America  Cubic meters  4,930,934 4,260,772 4,308,871
Total  Cubic meters  7,695,696  6,770,530 6,749,720
Water Withdra
wal Intensity  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
The scope of water withdrawal by source data includes global manufacturing and headquarters/RD&E facilities, whereas water 
withdrawal by region and intensity includes all Ecolab sites. Intensity unit is cubic meters of water per MT of product produced.Intensity Within the Organization  Cubic meters / MT  2.50  2.47  2.22Water Performance
Water Withdrawal by Source from Water Stressed Areas  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
In alignment with GRI standards, Ecolab defines water stressed areas as areas designated as having “extremely high” or “high” baseline water stress according to WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool. Data is based on Aqueduct 3.0, the latest version of the Aqueduct tool. Included in the scope of this metric is all water withdrawal from Ecolab manufacturing and campus/technology center facilities where production occurs, which  represents 100% of Ecolab’s global water footprint.Municipal Water or Other Water Utility  Cubic meters  1,109,905  976,063  129,691
Groundwater  Cubic meters  299,550  247,099  1,067,693
Rainwater  Cubic meters  - 1,113 -
Total  Cubic meters  1,409,455  1,224,275  1,197,384Water Withdrawal by Source  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
Municipal Water or Other Water Utility  Cubic meters  6,139,957  5,323,405  5,305,928
Groundwater  Cubic meters  944,565  926,983  827,427
Surface Water  Cubic meters  610,752  519,048  603,068
Rainwater  Cubic meters  - 1,094  12,806
Wastewater for Another Organization  Cubic meters  - - 491
Total  Cubic meters  7,695,696  6,770,530  6,749,720
84 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
Total Water Recycled and Reused  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
The scope of water rec
ycled and reused data includes global supply chain manufacturing sites.Total Water Recycled and Reused  Cubic meters  224,560  309,260  401,984 
Total Water Recycled and R
eused as a  
Percent of Total Water Withdrawal  % 3.0%  4.7%  6.0%
Water Discharge by Region  UNITS 2019 2020 2021
Asia Pacific  Cubic meters  223,908  192,128  184,873
Europe  Cubic meters  940,678  982,396  967,115
Greater China  Cubic meters  129,653  119,934  149,379
India, Middle East and Africa  Cubic meters  93,095  91,871  96,203
Latin America  Cubic meters  203,031  172,501  192,953
North America  Cubic meters  3,923,058  3,309,386  3,311,913
Total  Cubic meters  5,513,424  4,868,216  4,902,436Water Discharge by De
stination  UNITS 2019 2020 2021
Sewer to Treatmen
t Facility  Cubic meters  4,509,148  3,916,524  3,910,602
Over Land / Surface Wat
er Cubic meters  912,267  872,375  882,275
Hauled Off-Site  Cubic meters  84,123  65,725  106,646
Solidification  Cubic meters  7,886  13,591  2,913
Total  Cubic meters  5,513,424  4,868,216  4,902,436
Water Discharge Int
ensity  UNITS 2019 2020 2021
The scope of water dischar
ge by destination includes global manufacturing and headquarters/RD&E facilities, whereas water discharge by region and intensity includes all 
Ecolab sites. Intensity unit is cubic meters of water per MT of product produced.Intensity Within the Organization  Cubic meters / MT  1.79 1.77 1.61
Water Discharge by Quality  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD)  MT 1,333  715 1,486
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)  MT N/A 696 3,356
Total Suspended Solids (TSS
) MT 1,416  1,449  1,484
• The scope of water quality data is global supply chain manufacturing facilities.
• In 2019, 69% and 60% of supply chain manufacturing water discharge is represented in BOD and TSS volumes, respectively.
• In 2020, 53%, 12% and 43% of supply chain manufacturing water discharge is represented in BOD, COD and TSS volumes, respectively.
• In 2021, 61%, 33% and 53% of supply chain manufacturing water discharge is represented in BOD, COD and TSS volumes, respectively .
Water Consumption  UNITS 2019 2020 2021
Total Water Consumed Within the Or
ganization  Cubic meters  2,182,272  1,902,314  1,847,284
Total Water Consumed in Wat
er-Stressed Areas  Cubic meters  657,831  549,071  484,640
85 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
We verify our hazardous waste volume through APEX Companies LLC using the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000 Revised. For more information, access our Assurance Statement on Environmental Metrics.  Waste Performance
Material Use Metric  UNITS  2020  2021
Raw Material Used (Nonrenewable)  MT 1,542,218  1,734,641
Material Used in Packaging  MT 21,526  24,947
Recycled Material Used in Packaging  MT 1,793  2,131
Percentage of Recycled Packaging Material  % 8.3%  8.5%
Post-Consumer Resin (PCR) used in Packaging  MT 1,245  2,496
Reconditioned Drums Purchased  MT 1,416  1,021
Reconditioned Intermediate Bulk Containers 
(IBC) Purchased  
Containers Returned for Reuse  MT 2,493  2,387
The scope of raw material data is limited to global supply-chain manufacturing facilities. Ecolab purchases reconditioned drums and uses 
reusable containers to avoid the use of virgin plastic. The scope of post-consumer resin packaging is North America, Europe and China.  The scope of reconditioned and reusable packaging is North America and Europe.
Intensity unit is MT of waste per MT of product produced.MT 180 44    
Nonhazardous Waste by Region  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
Asia Pacific  MT 1,412  1,431  1,465
Europe  MT 4,627  4,902  4,353
Great
er China  MT 416 294 100
India, Middle East and A
frica  MT 301 384 554
Latin America  MT 1,112 1,145  1,146
North America  MT 16,989  16,335  22,450
Total MT 24,857 24,490 30,067Total Waste and Waste Intensities UNITS  2019 2020 2021
Nonhazardous Solid Waste  MT 24,857 24,490 30,367
Hazardous Solid Waste MT 25,204 22,860 27,337
Nonhazardous Solid Waste Intensity  MT / MT  0.0081 0.0089 0.0099
Hazardous Waste Intensity  MT / MT  0.0082 0.0083 0.0090
86 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
Hazardous Waste by Region  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
Asia Pacific  MT 4,318  4,473  3,264
Europe  MT 4,803  4,177  6,990
Great
er China  MT 1,295  898 2,078
India, Middle East and A
frica  MT 677 654 886
Latin America  MT 3,387  3,009  3,196
North America  MT 10,725  9,650  10,923
Total MT 25,204 22,860 27,337
•All waste is disposed of directly by the organization or otherwis
e directly confirmed by the waste disposal contractor. The primary type of hazardous waste that Ecolab
produces is process waste from vessel washouts, equipment cleaning, etc. Generally, this waste is corrosive or flammable, which is why it is deemed hazardous.
•The scope of hazardous and nonhazardous solid wast
e by region and intensity is globally owned and leased facilities.
Hazardous Solid Waste by Destination  UNITS 2019 2020 2021
Landfill  MT 7,757  7,141 9,375
T
reatment  MT 9,191  9,081  7,875
Wastewater Treatment  MT - - 4,464
Ener
gy Recovery  MT 1,260  1,285  2,244
R
euse  MT 78 127 1,600
R
ecycling  MT - - 1,158
Compost / Land Farm MT 2 3 373
Inciner
ation  MT 4,429  2,675  185
F
uel Blending  MT 1,012  1,035  63
Deep W
ell Injection  MT 1,467  1,482  -
E
vaporation  MT - 21 -
S
ewer  MT 8 10 -
Total MT 25,204 22,860 28,028
The scope of nonhazardous and hazardous waste by destination is global manufacturing facilities and headquarters/RD&E facilities. The scope of recycled nonhazardous 
waste is global supply chain manufacturing facilities. Nonhaz ar
dous Solid Waste by Destination  UNITS  2019  2020  2021
Landfill MT 15,302  15,625  18,361
Recycling  MT 2,629  2,708  2,804
Tr
eatment  MT 4,805  4,156  2,719
Energy R
ecovery  MT 928 665 2,600
Compost / Land Farm MT 252 251 2,357
Reuse  MT 457 719 881
Wastewater Treatment  MT - - 269
Incineration  MT 484 366 76
Total MT 24,857 24,490 30,067
87 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
GLOBAL NEW EMPLOYEE HIRE RATES
Based on 8,905 hires
> 50 Years Old 4.3%  5.3%  5.2%
30 – 50 Years Old  13.7%  9.3%  10.6%
< 30 Years Old  35.6%  27.8%  38.7%
Total 15.6% 10.5% 13.4%New Hire Rate  Female  Male  TotalAsia Pacific
> 50 Years Old 4.7%  3.3%  3.5%
30 – 50 Years Old  13.3%  10.0%  11.2%
< 30 Years Old  38.7%  35.0%  37.3%
Total 15.1% 9.9% 11.6%New Hire Rate  Female  Male  TotalEurope
> 50 Years Old 0% 4.7%  4.1%
30 – 50 Years Old  21.0%  15.9%  17.0%
< 30 Years Old  49.4%  44.1%  46.8%
Total 23.8% 20.6% 21.6%New Hire Rate  Female  Male  TotalGreater China
> 50 Years Old 7.9%  4.7%  5.4%
30 – 50 Years Old  17.1%  13.6%  14.3%
< 30 Years Old  46.1%  38.4% 40.8%
Total 25.3% 17.2% 19.2%New Hire Rate  Female  Male  TotalIndia, Middle East and Africa
> 50 Years Old 5.6%  9.8%  9.0%
30 – 50 Years Old  11.5%  17.6%  15.9%
< 30 Years Old  25.2%  37.4%  31.9%
Total 16.2% 20.8% 19.3%New Hire Rate  Female  Male  TotalLatin America
> 50 Years Old 8.1%  9.7%  9.2%
30 – 50 Years Old  22.4%  20.1%  20.6%
< 30 Years Old  72.4%  60.1%  64.8%
Total 22.8% 18.3% 19.6%New Hire Rate  Female  Male  TotalNorth AmericaGLOBAL INVOLUNTARY TURNOVER RATES 
Based on 1,925 terminations
Involuntary Turnover Rate   Female  Male  TotalAsia Pacific
> 50 Years Old 2.2%  1.8%  1.9%
30 – 50 Years Old  1.7%  1.1% 1.3%
< 30 Years Old  0% 1.4%  1.2%
Total 1.5% 1.3% 1.4%
Involuntary Turnover Rate   Female  Male  TotalEurope
> 50 Years Old  2.3%  4.4%  4.1%
30 – 50 Years Old  2.5%  3.9%  3.4%
< 30 Years Old  2.1% 3.7%  2.9%
Total  2.4%  4.0%  3.6%
Involuntary Turnover Rate   Female  Male  TotalGreater China
> 50 Years Old  17.9%  10.9%  11.8%
30 – 50 Years Old  5.1% 3.8%  4.1%
< 30 Years Old  2.4%  3.7%  3.5%
Total  5.3%  4.3%  4.5%
Involuntary Turnover Rate   Female  Male  TotalIndia, Middle East and Africa 
> 50 Years Old  2.6%  2.7%  2.7%
30 – 50 Years Old  4.4%  2.0%  2.5%
< 30 Years Old  1.4%  1.1% 1.2%
Total 3.3% 1.9% 2.2%
Involuntary Turnover Rate   Female  Male  TotalLatin America
> 50 Years Old 3.2%  7.6%  6.7%
30 – 50 Years Old  3.4%  7.1% 6.1%
< 30 Years Old  1.8%  6.5%  4.5%
Total 2.8% 7.1% 5.7%
Involuntary Turnover Rate   Female  Male  TotalNorth America
> 50 Years Old 3.1%  4.4%  4.1%
30 – 50 Years Old  4.9%  4.2%  4.4%
< 30 Years Old  7.6%  6.7%  7.0%
Total  5.1%  4.6%  4.7%GLOBAL VOLUNTARY TURNOVER RATES
Based on 5,955 terminations 
Voluntary Turnover Rate  Female  Male  TotalEurope
> 50 Years Old 9.0%  8.4%  9.5%
30 – 50 Years Old  8.9%  7.3%  7.9%
< 30 Years Old  15.3%  17.1%  16.2%
Total  9.9%  8.4%  9.2%
Voluntary Turnover Rate  Female  Male  TotalGreater China
> 50 Years Old 7.1% 10.9%  10.4%
30 – 50 Years Old  10.6%  8.9%  9.2%
< 30 Years Old  20.5%  20.3%  21.6%
Total  11.7%  11.3%  11.6%
Voluntary Turnover Rate   Female  Male  TotalIndia, Middle East and Africa 
> 50 Years Old 10.5%  6.7%  7.5%
30 – 50 Years Old  17.5%  12.1%  13.2%
< 30 Years Old  16.3%  17.9%  17.1%
Total  16.5%  12.7%  13.5%
Voluntary Turnover Rate  Female  Male  TotalLatin America
> 50 Years Old 6.4%  4.3%  4.7%
30 – 50 Years Old  6.6%  6.1%  6.3%
< 30 Years Old  10.9%  15.7%  13.5%
Total 8.2% 7.9% 8.0%Voluntary Turnover Rate  Female  Male  TotalAsia Pacific
> 50 Years Old 8.6%  10.0%  9.9%
30 – 50 Years Old  13.2%  8.7%  9.9%
< 30 Years Old  33.5%  12.7%  19.9%
Total  15.6%  9.5%  11.3%
Voluntary Turnover Rate  Female  Male  TotalNorth America
> 50 Years Old 11.3%  14.2%  13.5%
30 – 50 Years Old  16.2%  15.3%  15.5%
< 30 Years Old  29.5%  28.5%  28.8%
Total  18.1%  16.7%  17.0%Talent Performance
88 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
GLOBAL DIVERSITY BY JOB LEVEL,  
GENDER AND AGEETHNIC/RACIAL DIVERSITY OF  
U.S. EMPLOYEES
37,272  Individual Contributors 
Gender as a  
Percent of TotalMale  70.8%
Female  28.3%
Not Specified  0.8%
> 50 Years Old  21.0%
30 – 50 Years Old  58.9%
< 30 Years Old  20.1%Age Group as a  
Percen
t of Total14,269 Individual Contributors
Minority  31.9%
Non-minority  65.4%
Not Specified  2.7%
3,122 Junior Management Employees
Minority  19.7%
Non-minority  78.8%
Not Specified  1.5%
1,151 Management Employees
Minority  16.3%
Non-minority  82.5%
Not Specified  1.2%
17 Top Management Employees
Minority  17.6%
Non-minority  82.4%
Not Specified  0%
12 Board of Directors
Minority  16.7%
Non-minority  83.3%
Not Specified  0%7,147  Junior Management Employees
Gender as a  
Percent of TotalMale  73.7%
Female  26.1%
Not Specified  0.2%
> 50 Years Old  29.2%
30 – 50 Years Old  68.6%
< 30 Years Old  2.3%Age Group as a  
Percent o
f Total
1,697 Management Employees
Gender as a  
Percent of TotalMale  76.7%
Female  23.3%
Not Specified  0%
> 50 Years Old  45.1%
30 – 50 Years Old  54.6%
< 30 Years Old  0.2%Age Group as a  
Percent of T
otal
18 Top Management Employees
Gender as a  
Percent of TotalMale  66.7%
Female  33.3%
Not Specified  0%
> 50 Years Old  72.2%
30 – 50 Years Old  27.8%
< 30 Years Old  0%Age Group as a  
Percent of To
tal
12 Board of Directors 
Gender as a  
Percent of TotalMale  58.3%
Female  41.7%
Not Specified  0%Individual Contributor  34,849  37,273  94%
Junior Management  7,079  7,147  99%
Management  1,691  1,697  99%
Top Management  17 18 94%
Total  43,636  46,135  95%
Female  11,643  12,819  91%
Male  3,816  32,990  96%
Not Specified  177 326 54%
Total  43,636  46,135  95%
Female  98%  99%  99%
Male  98%  99%  99%
Not Specified  100%  95%  94%
Asia Pacific  99%  99%  100%
Europe  96%  99%  100%
Greater China  100%  100%  100%
India, Middle East and Africa  98%  99%  99%
Latin America  98%  100%  100%
North America  98%  99%  99%1Percent of employees who have completed at least one 
learning course2021 LEARNING ADOPTION RATE1
Employee level  COMPLETED  TOTAL  %
Gender  COMPLETED  TOTAL  %
Gender  2019  2020  2021
Region  2019  2020  2021Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Performance Human Capital  
Development Performance 
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW 
COMPLETION RATES
89 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
Ecolab global operations conform to the Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration (OSHA) injury reporting standards. The data provided cannot be broken down by gender and does not include independent contractors, except where stated otherwise. As Ecolab transitioned to a web-based platform for injury and incident reporting, we identified opportunities to improve the consistency of tracking lost time injury rates outside of North America. This improvement process will continue in 2022.Health and Safety Performance 
Asia Pacific  0.60  0.49  0.44  -27%
Europe  0.88  0.63  0.53  -40%
Greater China  0.14 0.19 0.16 14%
India, Middle East & Africa  0.67  0.32  0.36  -46%
Latin America  0.63  0.48  0.37  -41%
North America  1.55 1.03 1.49 -4%
Total  1.10 0.79 0.93 -15%
Asia Pacific  1.83 1.93 1.60 -13%
Europe  4.34  3.38  3.14 -28%
Greater China  1.17 0.61 0.67  -43%
India, Middle East & Africa  2.39  1.89 1.96 -18%
Latin America  2.46  2.32 2.04  -17%
North America  2.66  2.23 2.06  -23%
Total  2.81 2.37  2.17 -23%2019  2020  2021  % Change vs 2019
2019  2020  2021  % Change vs 20192019  2020  2021  % Change vs 2019Asia Pacific  0.14 0.14 0.00  -100%
Europe  0.00  0.05  0.00  0%
Greater China  0.00  0.00  0.00  0%
India, Middle East & Africa  0.00  0.00  0.00  0%
Latin America  0.00  0.18 0.09  100%
North America  0.15 0.11 0.11 -27%
Total  0.08  0.09  0.06  -25%2019  2020  2021  % Change vs 2019
2019  2020  2021  % Change vs 2019Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Number of injuries and illnesses per 200 ,000 work ing h ours
Total Vehicle Accident Rate (TVAR)
Number of vehicular accidents per million miles drivenNorth America  0.65  0.36  0.61 -6%2019  2020  2021  % Change vs 2019
Global  0.08  0.07  0.08  0%
Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)
Number of injuries with lost days per 200,000 work ing h oursSevere Vehicle Accident Rate (SVAR)1
Number of severe vehicular accidents per million miles driven
Ecolab Employees  1 1 0 -100%
Contract Employees  0 0 0 0%Fatalities1 Includes fatalities, bodily injuries, vehicle rollovers, incidents involving drugs and/
or alcohol and environmental spills to ground or waterways
Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR)
Number of occupational illnesses per 200,000 working hours
90 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
REPORTING REFERENCE TABLES AND INDEXES  
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index provides an overview of the material 
sustainability-related disclosures contained in the 2021 Ecolab Corporate Responsibility Report, 2021 Ecolab Annual Report and Form 10-K and other sources. We report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI Standards: Core option. 
 Access Ecolab’s GRI Index
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Reference Table
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, standards-setting organization that promotes disclosure of material sustainability information to meet investor needs. Our SASB Table references the Standards for the Chemicals and Professional Servicers industries as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System (SICS) and outlines where Ecolab addresses each topic.
 Access Ecolab’s SASB Reference TableTask Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
The Financial S tability Board created the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) to improve and increase reporting of climate-related financial 
information. 
Our TCFD Index includes details on climate-related matters across 
governance, strategy, risk management and target-settin g processes.
 Access Ecolab’s TCFD Index
World Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics Reference Table
The World Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics are a set of 
universal and comparable disclosures focused on people, planet, prosperity and 
principles of governance that are considered most critical for business, society and 
the environment, regardless of region or industry. Our WEF Table identifies where 
Ecolab addresses each of the 21 core metrics.
 Access Ecolab’s WEF Reference Table
ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  | 91OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE  APPENDIX ABOUT
REPORTING CHANGES AND REST ATEMENTS 
FOR 2021 REPORTING PERIOD 
Adjustments and Restatements of Information in Previous Reports
Ecolab first developed an in
ventory of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as 
par
t of our c
ommitment to reducing our carbon footprint in 200 7. In 2009, we 
expanded the primary inventory to include other key operational 
environmental impacts including, but no
t limited to, water withdrawal, 
wastewater discharge and waste disposal. During completion of these 2021 
inventories, data and methodological gaps were identified and corrected, which 
impacted historical inventories and data. 
We also continue to implement many new 
data-management collection 
processes to maintain our energy and water invoices for all owned and 
operationally controlled fixed facilities. This serves as another way
 to perform 
internal and third-party auditing of this data. Globally, Ecolab had an 83%  
invoice-compliance rate in 2021, meaning that 83% of  all energy and water 
invoices from all owned and operationally 
controlled fixed facilities were us
ed 
to compile 2021 data.
Net sales are adjusted to constant 2015 dollars to factor out inflation when 
normalizing Ecolab’s emissions performance against the base year, following 
best-practice guidance from the GHG Protocol and EPA Climate Leaders. 
Ecolab’s net sales are adjusted for inflation
 using Producer Price Indexes (PPI) 
from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Greenhouse Gas, Water, Wastewater and Waste Inventory Changes
In 2018 we changed the accounting method we use to report GHG emissions 
progress against our climate targets 
from location-based to market-based. 
Primarily, this allows us to account for the renewable electricity purchases we are 
making in North America, Europe and other regions. 
In 2020 Ecolab completed a significant divestiture of its upstream energy 
business. Ecolab’s greenhouse gas, water, wastewater and waste inventories for 
2019 and years prior have been revised to account for this divestiture. In 2020 
Ecolab revised its Scope 3 Use of Sold Products emissions for prior years due to 
methodological improvements in estimating product sales. For the 2021 reporting 
year, Ecolab has restated its historical Scope 3 emissions for purchased goods & 
services, capital g
oods, upstream transportation and distribution, and downstream 
transportation & distribution categories due to improvements in procurement 
spend data collection and categorization. 
92 ECOLAB CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2021  |REPORT VERIFIC ATION AND EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
Apex Companies, LLC (formerly the HSE division of Bureau Veritas North America, 
Inc.) provided third-party assurance for Ecolab’s publicly reported 202 1 Corporate 
Responsibility Report. This is the seventh year in a row they have provided 
assurance for Ecolab’s report. Apex completed its Limited Assurance level 
evaluation of the Report in accordance with the Apex’s standard procedures and  
guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability Reports and International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance 
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information 
(effective for assurance reports dated on or after Dec. 15, 2015), issued by the 
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board and against the principles 
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework as defined in the GRI 
Standards Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The assurance practitioners 
selected for this engagement were qualified to perform the services and were 
impartial and independent from the management systems and reports being 
audited. 
On the basis of our methodol ogy and the activities described above, Apex has 
found n
o evidence that: the Subject Matter included in the Report has not been 
properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting 
Criteria; and the report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards 
including appropriate consideration of the Reporting Principles, necessary 
general disclosures, m
anagement approaches and topic-specific GRI standards to 
meet the in accordance-core requirements of the GRI Standards. It is Apex’s 
opinion that: E
colab has established appropriate systems for the collection, 
aggregation and analysis of relevant information; and Ecolab’s executive 
management s
upports the development of processes for the embedding of 
sustainable management c
oncepts and practices in the company.
 Access Ecolab’s Corporate Responsibility Report Assurance StatementPromises Delivered for Customers, People and Planet
Ecolab Global Headquarters
1 Ecolab Place, St. Paul, MN 55102  
ecolab.com 1 800 2 ECOLAB
©2022 Ecolab Inc. All rights reserved.STAY UP TO D ATE  
ON OUR P ROGRESS
Visit our Corporate Responsibility  
page on e
colab.com