SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Positive. Impact.Table of Contents
Our Company, Our Customers  2
A Message from Our Chairman  3
Our Philosophy: A Total Impact Approach  4
Helping Customers Use Water with Care  8
Helping Keep Food Supplies Safe Through Science  10
Helping Ensure Energy Is Available Everywhere  12
Enabling Customers to Do More — with Less Energy  14
Helping Make the World Cleaner, Safer and Healthier  16
Our Principles for a Positive Impact: Economic Progress  18
Environmental Performance   2 0
Safety  22
Social Responsibility  2 4Additional information on  
our performance can be found 
in the Detailed Appendix  
to this report available at  
www.ecolab.com/csr. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20111Our world is evolving. The marketplace is becoming more 
global. Germs are getting stronger. Vital resources are  
under pressure.
Making the world cleaner, safer and healthier is more  
complex than ever before. Quality of life depends on keeping 
food supplies safe, preventing the spread of disease and  
infection and preserving natural resources — now, and for future generations.
As the global leader in water, hygiene and energy  
technologies and services, we play an important role in 
meeting the changing needs of our evolving world.  
We provide and protect what is vital: clean water, safe  food, abundant energy and healthy environments. We  manage our own operations responsibly, and we find  solutions to the challenges facing our customers,  helping them succeed.
We believe that the challenge of limited resources calls 
for unlimited resourcefulness. And through our unlimited resourcefulness, we can make a positive impact.  Everywhere It Matters.
™
2
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
Our Company
Ecolab is the global leader in cleaning, food safety and 
health protection. Nalco is the leader in industrial water and energy. Through our merger, which was finalized in  
December 2011, we have together expanded our vision, reach and capabilities. Working with our customers,  
we’re helping make the world a better place.
Our Customers
Foodservice
Retail
Hospitality
HealthcareCommercial LaundriesFood and Beverage  
ProcessingBuildings and Facilities 
Manufacturing
Pulp and Paper
Metals, Mining and Mineral 
Processing
Oil, Gas and Chemicals
Power Generation	 40,000		 employees
	 171		 countries
	 5,300		 patents
$11	billion	 annual sales
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20113A Message from Our Chairman 
At Ecolab, sustainability is not simply the way we do 
business — it’s core to our purpose. Every day, our 40,000 
employees worldwide make the world cleaner, safer and 
healthier, protecting people and vital resources.
We do this by enabling our customers to achieve 
uncompromising operational standards, while using the 
least amount of energy and water, and generating less waste. Our 22,500 sales and service professionals deliver 
innovative products and services at more than 1 million 
customer locations globally, from hotels and restaurants, to hospitals, to food manufacturing plants, to oil rigs. 
Because we truly are “Everywhere It Matters,”  we have an 
exponential impact on the sustainability of our planet.
The world’s resources have never been under more 
pressure. In the pages that follow you’ll see how we’re 
bringing unlimited resourcefulness to the challenge of limited resources — and delivering positive economic and 
environmental outcomes. I firmly believe that a focus on achieving both of these outcomes is the best way to ensure ongoing commitment and long-term results.
Within our own operations, we have set measurable  
goals for ourselves and you’ll read about our progress  
in this report. Like most companies, we report on how  
we address the three elements of the “triple bottom  
line” — economic progress, environmental stewardship  and social responsibility. But we have added a fourth 
element — safety. Building a stronger safety culture, and 
embedding safety considerations into everything we do,  
is foundational to our success, and vitally important  
to our customers.
Through training, we’re reinforcing safe choices in every 
aspect of our employees’ lives, at home, work and play. Put 
simply, we’re committed to making sure every employee 
returns home safely each day. And while that’s obviously good news for our associates, it is also good news to our 
customers who rely on the creativity and innovation of our 
workforce to help their businesses succeed.
While our own progress is important, we have an even 
greater impact through the more than 1 million customer 
locations we serve. By providing products and services that enable our customers to optimize their water and 
energy use and reduce waste streams, our impact is 
multiplied exponentially.
In the past, I’ve reported on Ecolab’s Total Impact 
approach to our products and services. Total Impact asks 
that we take a broad view of the impact of our products and services. That means considering how every one of 
our solutions increases efficiency, minimizes use of  
natural resources and improves safety — from sourcing and manufacturing, to use, and through disposal.Through the Total Impact approach, we help customers realize dramatic results and achieve their own sustainability 
goals. What’s even more meaningful is the ripple effect —
how the results we achieve with our customers bring value to communities and the global economy.
Our innovative products and services, and our dedicated 
people, are moving us closer to our vision of clean water, safe food, abundant energy and healthy environments 
for all people, everywhere. As we make strides toward 
that vision, we’re not only reducing the strain on vital resources, we’re improving quality of life. In other words, 
through our work with customers in a wide range of 
industries, we’re making a positive impact.
At Ecolab, we have a unique role to play in 
addressing some of the most challenging 
issues facing our planet. We have the people, 
the technology, the capability and the vision to build that positive impact today and far into 
the future. And we have the determination to 
make a difference and serve the greater good.
Because what we do, and how we do it, matters everywhere.
Sincerely,
  Douglas M. B aker, Jr.  
Chairman of the Board and  
Chief Executive Officer
4
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
HOSPITALITY
BUILDINGS AND
FACILITIES
FOODSERVICEMANUFACTURINGMINING AND MINERAL
PROCESSING
OIL, GAS AND CHEMICALS
COMMERCIALLAUNDRIES
RETAILMETALS 
PROCESSING
PULP AND PAPERFOOD AND BEVERAGEPROCESSING
HEALTHCAREPOWER 
GENERATION
Our	Approach: 		
Total Impact
Our	Goal: 		
Positive Impact
Our approach starts with science. With 
more than 1,300 scientists around the 
world, we study the germs that can  
make people sick. Learn all we can 
about water. And develop innovations 
that leverage chemistry, equipment, 
packaging, dispensing and expertise to use only what’s needed to produce 
superior results.Then we partner with customers to 
increase efficiency and enhance business 
results. With more than 22,500 field 
experts serving customers in more than 1 million locations globally, we use the 
latest technology to capture and analyze 
data. Work on-site to solve problems and find opportunities. Help each customer 
do more with less.We	help	each	customer 	do	more 	with	less.
Together, 	we	help	people 	around 	the	world 		
live	life	fully.
Working 	toward 	a	model 	where 	nothing 	is		
ever	wasted.
And	where 	our	unlimited 	resourcefulness 		
helps 	make 	the	world 	a	better 	place.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20115
HOSPITALITY
BUILDINGS AND
FACILITIES
FOODSERVICEMANUFACTURINGMINING AND MINERALPROCESSING
OIL, GAS AND CHEMICALS
COMMERCIALLAUNDRIES
RETAILMETALS PROCESSING
PULP AND PAPERFOOD AND BEVERAGEPROCESSING
HEALTHCAREPOWER GENERATION
And it’s through these partnerships — 
helping our customers everywhere do 
more with less — that our vision for clean 
water, safe food, abundant energy and 
healthy environments can be realized. Through our customers, we make the 
world cleaner, safer and healthier. We 
protect vital resources, ensuring that water and energy are available everywhere. 
Together with our customers, we allow 
people around the world to live life fully.Our world is evolving. And eventually, Total Impact won’t be 
enough. That’s why we’re always working toward Positive Impact: a model based on overcoming trade-offs. Where we help our customers do more, with more, for even more people. 
And as always, where we use unlimited resourcefulness to make the world a better place to live.6
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
Clean water is integral to our vision. It is 
important itself, but it also enables our success 
in the other vital areas we impact — safe food, 
abundant energy and healthy environments. 
In 2011, we made great progress toward our vision; progress that can be measured through 
our efforts to make more water available for 
more people. While the numbers here are just highlights, they add up to enough water to sustain more than 21 million people for a year.
1 
That’s equal to the populations of Shanghai, 
China, Sydney, Australia, and Pune, India, 
combined. And they demonstrate that by taking on each challenge with a stewardship mindset, 
we can truly make a difference.
We help our customers save:
351	billion 	liters 	of water worldwide annually with  
3D	TRASAR®	cooling 	water 	technology .
9.4	billion 	liters  of water by a typical five-line  
beverage, brewing or food processing plant using DryExx®	dry		
conveyor 	lubricant .
Up to 	40%  of a typical customer’s water consumption through the 
innovative wash processes of our Aquanomic™	laundry 	system .
8	billion 	liters  of water in papermaking and other  
industrial applications using PARETO™	mixing 	technology.
Up to 	50%  of water use by restaurant customers with our  
Apex™	Conveyor 	dish	machine .
Water: An Example of Our Positive Impact
1   P er United Nations data on basic human water needs of 50 liters per person, per day.  
www.unwater.org/statistics_san.html    Accessed 2012SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20117
We improve our operations:
•  90	million 	liters  preserved annually at our Joliet, Ill., plant 
through process and equipment changes.
•  7.5	million 	liters  reclaimed in a year at our Marinsburg, W. Va., 
plant through process improvements.
We help others:
•  $500,000 	three-year 	grant 	for	Water 	for	People , funding  
water, sanitation and hygiene programs in West Bengal and 
Bihar, India.
•  $450,000 	committed 	over	three 	years 	to	World 	Wildlife 	
Fund (WWF), funding a water stewardship program that is 
identifying solutions to protect Taihu Lake, the third largest 
freshwater lake in China and a primary water source for  
more than 33 million people around Shanghai. The same practices that are good  
for the environment are also good for 
business. Operating efficiently and using 
resources with care yield environmental and economic benefits. Through our 
eROI value program, we can document 
the actual environmental and financial results we deliver to our customers.
More Water for More People8
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
Helping customers use water with care
Water is an essential part of many of our customers’ processes, and using less of it contributes 
to their success while also preserving a precious resource for other uses. Take PepsiCo. The 
company is guided by Performance with Purpose, which they define as delivering sustainable growth by investing in a healthier future for people and the planet. To that end, this global leader in convenient snacks, foods and beverages has several aggressive environmental sustainability  
goals including one to improve operational water use efficiency by 20 percent per unit of production by 2015. 
To meet that goal and others — including 
reducing energy use — Ecolab provides a 
range of innovative solutions.
Our DryExx conveyor management 
system replaces water with dry lubricants 
in bottling plants, typically saving up to 1.8 
million liters of water per line per year. The Advantis
® clean-in-place (CIP) program 
removes two water-intensive steps from 
the process, reducing CIP water use by  
up to 45 percent.Our 3D	TRASAR  technology improves 
operations in multiple industrial systems. 
Improvements to the cooling system  
at one plant reduced fresh water use by 90 million liters a year. Using 3D TRASAR 
for membranes in another plant’s 
pretreatment system improved water quality, saving 7.5 million liters of  
water annually.
In addition to water savings, our programs 
and services are improving cleanliness 
while reducing waste, energy, greenhouse 
gases and PepsiCo’s total operating costs. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20119
Helping customers use water with care
Fresh 	water 	use		
was	reduced 	by	90million 		
liters 	/yearat	one		
PepsiCo 	plant.IMAGINE THE IMPACT
The savings captured by our solutions add up:
Clean-in-place 	water 	use		
can	be	reduced 	by	up	to .More 		
than662million 	liters 	of	water 	is	saved 	
annually 	at	PepsiCo 	bottling 	plants.
(or 175 million 
gallons)
(or 24 million 
gallons)10
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
Helping keep food supplies safe through science
Food safety is critical to the well-being of society. The World Health Organization estimates that 
around the globe, about 2.2 million people die from food and waterborne disease each year.1  
Data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suggest that contaminated  
equipment or environments and poor personal hygiene contribute to nearly half of the foodborne  
illness in the U.S. This is where we excel — leading the way in reducing contamination so safe food 
can be enjoyed by all. 
We offer more than food safety solutions. 
We share our global knowledge and 
scientific expertise by partnering with 
government, industry and professional associations to advance food protection 
globally. Ecolab professionals like 
Katherine Swanson, Ph.D., are thought leaders among those dedicated to food 
safety. In addition to her role as vice 
president of Food Safety for Ecolab, Dr. Swanson serves as president of 
the International Association for Food 
Protection (July 2012-13), is a fellow of the Institute of Food Technologists and a 
member of the International Commission 
on Microbiological Specifications  
for Foods.Taking 	a	Holistic 	View 	
Dr. Swanson and her Ecolab colleagues take a holistic view of food safety 
challenges: they don’t just invent products, 
they solve problems. Big problems, like fighting norovirus, the leading cause of 
foodborne illness in the U.S., causing 
more than 20 million cases of illness each year.
2 Also known as the “cruise ship 
virus” or “stomach flu,” norovirus can be 
controlled by effective cleaning products, 
such as Ecolab’s TB	Disinfectant 	Cleaner 	
Ready-to-Use 	and	14	Antibacterial 	All	
Purpose 	Cleaner . It takes rapid action to 
respond to incidents, detailed procedures 
implemented by knowledgeable people, 
diligent hand washing and other proactive steps to help reduce risk.Innovating 	with	Sound 	Science 	
With extensive food safety knowledge, we developed a norovirus tool kit that 
helps customers reduce risk and prepare 
for potential incidents. Comprehensive training materials and detailed procedures 
for hand washing, food contact surface 
cleaning, rest room disinfection and laundry handling help customers prevent 
norovirus incidents.
When preventive measures aren’t enough, 
we help customers rapidly respond to  
norovirus. From prevention to response, 
Dr. Swanson and the entire food safety team apply expertise to critical food problems.By sharing our knowledge and expertise, Ecolab products  
and procedures make a positive difference in people’s lives 
every day. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201111Clean miles 	of	dairy 	pipe		
each	day. 8,000
Helping keep food supplies safe through science
IMAGINE THE IMPACT
Our products:
million 	chickens 	every 	day		
to	control 	Salmonella. 10
Wash 		
more 	thanmillion 	dishes 	
daily.Stepping 	in	with	Purpose
Where there is a need to further food  
safety — anywhere in the world — we step 
in with purpose. For example, to elevate 
China’s food safety and public health standards, Ecolab and China Business 
News invited leading food processing, 
foodservice and food retail companies operating in China to commit to the Food 
Safety & Public Health Seven-Star Pact to 
help ensure proper food safety practices throughout the country. Twenty-five  
leading food industry companies 
committed to the pact at the 2011 Food Safety & Public Health Summit Forum  
in Shanghai.
“The food safety team works across 
divisions and geographies to deploy 
actionable tools and information that 
complement Ecolab’s innovative product offerings and help our customers to protect 
their businesses,” Dr. Swanson explains. 
“Safer foods and healthy environments  
are essential to sustain life.”
1   http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2004/pr71/en/  
Accessed 2012
2   http://www.cdc.gov/Features/Norovirus/   Accessed 2012Treat 	more 		
than	million 	hands 	
every 	day. 75Wash 	more 		
than	Katherine Swanson, Ph.D.  
Vice President, Food Safety12
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
emulsions that bind oil and water need 
to be broken. Our BREAXIT® technology 
effectively breaks the emulsions using 
chemistries that meet or exceed the 
environmental regulations our customers must follow.
Sharing 	Our	Expertise 	
For decades the energy industry has looked to Nalco for technical expertise, 
on-site experience and an expansive range 
of treatment solutions. Working with our customers, we have improved heating 
and cooling systems’ operating efficiency 
and reduced energy use and demand. Our experienced professionals and 
technologies increase energy production 
while protecting the people who operate wells, production facilities, pipelines, 
refineries and petrochemical plants.
Increasing 	Energy 	Supply 	
It’s not uncommon for oil reservoirs to 
produce less than one third of the original 
oil they contain. Our project engineers 
and field technicians have extensive experience in enhanced oil recovery 
(EOR) gained from working with diverse 
reservoirs worldwide. Our 
EOR	programs  As economic growth raises living 
standards in developing regions, world 
energy demand also increases. While alternative and renewable energy play an 
essential role moving forward, traditional 
energy sources continue to be important to future energy production. The energy 
production industry is addressing growing 
global demand in more sustainable ways, and our energy services customers are 
demanding sustainable process solutions 
that allow them to safely maximize oil and gas production. We’re working closely 
with them, providing solutions designed to 
energize the world.
Producing 	More, 	Using 	Less  
Nalco, which merged with Ecolab in 
December 2011, has been serving the oil 
and gas industry for nearly 90 years. Today we are helping customers produce more, while operating in more extreme 
conditions. Technology now allows drilling 
for oil and gas in ultra-deep waters, thousands of feet deeper than was 
possible just a few years ago.
Our solutions help customers manage 
environmental risks and improve their 
operations. The result is safer operations, 
improved product quality, reduced water and energy use, less waste, enhanced 
equipment protection, decreased costs 
and compliance with regulations.
Water is an inevitable byproduct of oil 
production. An average of three barrels 
of water is produced from a well for each barrel of oil.* To maximize production 
and clean the water produced with the oil, Whether the need is to maximize energy production or minimize 
use, Ecolab provides solutions that address both supply and  
demand. From the oil and gas industry to hospitality, our people are using their expertise and our innovative technologies to  
help a variety of industries operate more efficiently.Helping ensure energy is available everywhereSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201113
Helping ensure energy is available everywhere
reduce the need for drilling additional 
wells and extend the life of current oil 
reserves, producing millions of barrels  
of additional oil.
In offshore production, the formation 
of hydrates — chemical compounds 
containing water — can reduce or block 
flow, causing multimillion dollar losses. Our low-dose hydrate inhibitors offer 
dramatic advantages over traditional 
treatments, lowering operating costs, increasing employee safety and extending 
well life while substantially reducing 
chemical use and storage.
Finally, our eVerified
™	process  is designed 
to develop chemistries for oilfield use with 
lower risk profiles. To meet both customer 
and regulatory requirements, this scorecard enables research and marketing teams to 
evaluate products early in development and 
better identify and minimize human and environmental risks.
Through our industry-leading solutions, 
we’re aggressively addressing energy supply challenges that affect us all.
*
   http://green.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/09/04/new-solutions-
for-oils-produced-water/   Accessed 20121   International Energy Outlook 2011, US Energy Information Agency:  
http://www.eia.gov/forecasts/ieo/index.cfm   Accessed 2012
2   U.S. Department of Energy http://fossil.energy.gov/programs/oilgas/eor/  
Accessed 2012World 	energy 	demand 	is	
projected 	to	grow	more 	than	 	
The	average 	oil		
reservoir 	yields 	only	50% 		
by	2 035.1
20-40% 		
of	its	original 	oil	without 		
enhanced 	recovery 	methods.2IMAGINE THE IMPACT
Our solutions help solve critical energy issues while  
reducing impacts on the environment.14
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
Enabling customers to do more – with less energy
NV Energy provides a wide range of 
energy services throughout Nevada. 
When the company wanted to improve 
operations at one of its power stations, 
they selected our 3D	TRASAR  Boiler 
Technology. The technology helps prevent 
copper corrosion and deposits that can:
• Damage equipment• Require expensive cleaning
•  R educe the generating process efficiency
With 3D	TRASAR  technology:
•  T he North Valmy Station can generate 
the same amount of electricity while 
reducing fuel consumption by 87,000 
tons of coal annually. 
•  F uel savings are able to reduce costs 
by $3.5 million per year, helping to hold 
down electricity rates.
Our solution provides NV Energy positive economic and environmental results —  
an eROI value.Marriott, as one of our global lodging partners, has worked with Ecolab to make progress on its environmental goals to cut 
water, energy and waste. Ecolab works to 
capture energy and water savings across Marriott facilities while also improving the 
guest experience.
Our 
Apex 	Warewashing 	System  delivers 
excellent results with sustainable, low 
phosphorus products and non-corrosive, 
color-coded chemistry to reduce the risk of chemical injuries. The Apex controller can 
help save water and energy by reducing 
the need to rewash.  
Wash’n 	Walk®	Floor 	Cleaner  uses cool 
water dilution and a “no–rinse” formula to 
reduce slips and falls due to greasy floors. 
It also saves large amounts of rinse water and the energy needed to heat normal 
floor wash water.
The Aquanomic 	and Ensure ™	Laundry 	
Programs deliver clean, white and soft 
results while saving water and energy. 
Wash cycle optimization, including the 
Smart Wash process, can reduce the number of flush and rinse cycles, and low 
temperature chemistry reduces the water 
temperature requirement to 100°F (37°C).
Our
	3D	TRASAR  technology provides 
dramatic results in cooling systems. 
This award-winning program combines 
a team of experts remotely monitoring the system 24 hours a day, every day. 
Sophisticated control of patented 
chemistry allows for rapid response to system changes to help prevent scale 
buildup, corrosion and microbiological 
fouling which reduces electrical use.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201115
Enabling customers to do more – with less energy
Coal	consumptio n	
reduced 	bytons	at	one		
NV	Energy 	station.IMAGINE THE IMPACT
million 	in	fuel	savings 	
for	one	NV	Energy 	station.million 	kWh	of	energy 		
saved 	by	Marriott 	in	2011. 17.6(or 600,000 therms)16
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
Helping make the world cleaner, safer and healthier
Clean and sanitary surfaces are essential to life and critical to the success of many businesses. 
They’re expected and demanded by building occupants, hotel guests, restaurant diners and  
hospital patients. An effective indoor environment management strategy requires a careful  
combination of tools and expertise. From hand hygiene and housekeeping programs to indoor air 
quality and pest elimination systems and strategies, we help protect the places where people eat, sleep, work, play and heal. 
Drawing 	on	a	Deep 	Knowledge 	Base 	
John Hanlin, Ph.D., is vice president of 
Public Health for Ecolab and a subject 
matter expert in infection prevention and 
contamination control. “There is a deep knowledge base at Ecolab,” Dr. Hanlin 
says. “Our experienced researchers 
have advanced degrees in microbiology,  chemistry, entomology and food science, 
as well as the engineering and packaging 
sciences. We leverage our understanding of the disease process and our knowledge 
of food, surface and water microbiology to 
help our customers protect public health.”
From restaurants to hospitals, we help 
enhance the customer experience and 
prevent the spread of infection. Developing 	an	Innovative, 		
Efficient 	Solution
It’s not surprising that a clean restroom is important to restaurant patrons. What’s 
surprising is just how important. A full 75 
percent of guests say they will not return to an establishment if the restrooms 
are not well kept.
1 To improve bathroom 
cleanliness and simplify the process for employees, our researchers and engineers 
designed the 
Cleaning 	Caddy ™ and 
Oasis 	Pro™ products. This touch-free 
solution eliminates the need to hire outside 
cleaning contractors, significantly lowers 
costs and gets restrooms 54 percent cleaner than traditional cleaning methods.
2Improving 	Cleaning 	Outcomes
Research shows that 50 percent of hospital patient room and operating room 
surfaces are contaminated even after 
cleaning.
3,4 When problems like this are 
identified, we step in. That’s why we’ve 
developed products like Virasept®, a 
ready-to-use hard-surface disinfectant with efficacy against Clostridium difficile 
spores — a type of bacteria that causes diarrhea linked to 14,000 deaths in the 
U.S. each year.
5 Virasept disinfectant kills 
Clostridium difficile spores and is effective against other pathogens like MRSA, VRE, 
E. coli, HIV-1, Hepatitis B virus, Influenza A virus and Norovirus.We share our understanding of the disease process and  
knowledge of air, surfaces and water to treat microorganisms and help prevent them from spreading.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201117
Helping make the world cleaner, safer and healthier
To help prevent the spread of infection, 
we blend our knowledge of surface 
contamination and the chemical properties 
of disinfectants to develop programs like 
our EnCompassTM	Environmental Hygiene 
Program. EnCompass controls variables 
such as the concentration and amount 
of disinfectant and the type of cleaning cloth used. In a pilot study, the program 
improved cleaning outcomes by 43 
percent. At Ecolab, we’re using the best science to understand emerging public 
health issues and develop solutions that 
clean, sanitize and protect against them.
1   Klara R. Consumer Insights: The Comfort Zone.  Restaurant Business. 2004.
2   Results based on over 1,000 swab samples collected  and analyzed by Ecolab.
3   Carling PC, Po JL, Bartley J, Herwaldt L; Healthcare Environmental Hygiene Group. Identifying Opportunities 
to Improve Environmental Hygiene in Multiple Healthcare 
Settings. SHEA Fifth Decennial Meeting; Atlanta, GA;  March 18-22, 2010. 
4   Jefferson J, Whelan R, Dick B, Carling PC. A novel technique to identify opportunities for improving environmental 
hygiene in the operating room. AORN J. 2010. (In-press.)
5   http://www.cdc.gov/HAI/organisms/cdiff/Cdiff_infect.html 
Accessed 2012IMAGINE THE IMPACT
Our solutions clean our customers’ most  
challenging environments:
6  Technomic Consumer Restaurant Brand Metrics Program — FSR Segment — 3Q 2010 Report.
7  CDC. New York Times. Oct 2008.of	guests 	judge 	a	clean 	restroom 	as	
extremely 	important 	to	their 	decision 	
where 	to	dine.6 84%
are	the	most 	common 	complications 		
and	are	one	of	the	top	10	leading 		
causes 	of	death 	in	the	U.S.	of		
hospital 	care	(99,000 deaths each year).7/	1. 7Hospital-acquired 		
infectionsmillion 		
annually,John Hanlin, Ph.D.  
Vice President, Public Health18
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
2009 2010 2011$60
$55
$50
$45
$40
$35
$301.551.65
0.95
0.851.45
1.35
1.25
1.15
1.05
1Q 2Q 2Q 2Q 3Q 3Q 3Q 4Q 4Q 4Q 1Q 1QEcolab Stock Price
Ecolab Stock Price Index
S&P 500 IndexECOLAB STOCK PRICE
ECOLAB, S&P 500 INDICESEconomic Progress  Our Principles for a Positive Impact
Our principles guide how we conduct business every day.  
We work hard to manage our global operations with care for 
the health, safety and prosperity of our employees, customers, communities and the environment, focusing on four areas:
Economic 	Progress
In 2011, Ecolab’s core business drove sales and earnings growth 
and attracted returns for shareholders. We provided exceptional 
customer service, expanded relationships globally and earned 
new business. Our new product pipeline delivered improved performance, environmental benefits and cost savings. We 
continued to invest in innovation, and also realized operational 
efficiencies. Our merger with Nalco puts us at the center of growing energy and water demands.
The financial highlights on the next page are Ecolab’s reported 
results as of the end of 2011 and include sales and operating income from Nalco’s U.S. Water, Paper and Energy businesses for 
the month following the December 1 close of the merger. The pro forma data shown reflect sales and net income assuming 
combined Ecolab and Nalco operations for 2011.
For 2012, we are well positioned for growth and have improved 
access to global markets. We are better equipped to help our customers meet the challenges they face with our technology  
and service reach. We have the financial ability to fund our growth and we have a clear focus on delivering excellent results that make a positive impact on our customers, shareholders and the world.
Detailed financial reporting, economic impact and investor information is available on our website at  
www.ecolab.com/investor.  
Ecolab 	S tock 	P erformance 	C omparisonSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201119
•  E CONOMIC PROGRESS  
Drive economic growth for our customers, employees, 
shareholders and communities 
•  ENVIR ONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP  
Promote stewardship of natural resources and protect  the environment
(Millions, except per share) PERCENT CHANGE
2011 2010 2009 2011 2010
Net Sales 	$ 6 , 7 9 8 . 5  $ 6,089.7  $ 5,900.6 12% 3%
Net Income Attributable to Ecolab 	 462.5  530 .3  4 17.3 	 (13)  27
Percent of Sales 6.8% 8.7%  7. 1%
Diluted Net Income Attributable to Ecolab per  
 C ommon Share	 1.91  2. 23  1 .74 	 (14)  28
Adjusted Diluted Net Income Attributable to Ecolab  
 p er Common Share (non-GAAP measure)	 2.54  2. 23  1 .99 	 14  12
Diluted Weighted-Average Common Shares Outstanding 	 242.1  2 37.6  2 39.9 	2  ( 1)
Cash Dividends Declared per Common Share 	 0.7250  0. 6400  0 .5750 	 13  11
Cash Provided by Operating Activities 	 685.5  95 0.4  6 95.0 	 (28)  37
Capital Expenditures 	 341.7  26 0.5  2 52.5 	 31  3
Ecolab Shareholders’ Equity 	 5,666.7  2 ,129.2  2, 000.9 	 166  6
Return on Beginning Equity 21.7% 26.5%  26 .6%
Total Debt 	 7,636.2   8 45.6  9 67.3 	 803  ( 1 3 )
Total Debt to Capitalization 57.1% 28.4%  3 2.5%
Total Assets 	$18,240.8  $ 4,872.2  $5 ,020.9 274%  ( 3 ) %$5,470
2007$6,138
2008$6,090 $5,901
2009 2010$6,799
2011 2011Net Sales
$427
MILLIONSMILLIONS
2007$448
2008$417
2009$530
2010Net Income Attributable
to Ecolab
$463
2011$11,284*
$666*
2011$5,470
2007$6,138
2008$6,090 $5,901
2009 2010$6,799
2011 2011Net Sales
$427
MILLIONSMILLIONS
2007$448
2008$417
2009$530
2010Net Income Attributable
to Ecolab
$463
2011$11,284*
$666*
2011Financial 	H ighlights
Pro	Forma 	Business 	Mix	2011*	 Percent 	of	Total 	Sales
* B ased on pro forma data assuming combined  
Ecolab and Nalco operations for 2011.Global 	Paper
Global 	Water
U.S.	Other 	Services
7%17%
17% Global 	Energy
International 		
Cleaning, 	Sanitizing 		
&	Other 	Services
29%U.S.	Cleaning 		
&	Sanitizing26%4%Our Principles for a Positive Impact
•  S AFETY  
Ensure safe processes that protect our employees, 
contractors, customers and communities
•  S OCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  
Enhance the well-being of people and communities
Our Principles are available at www.ecolab.com/our-story/our-company/our-principles20
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
Ecolab promotes the stewardship of natural  
resources and environmental protection not 
only through the solutions we provide our  
customers, but also in our own operations. 
As individual companies prior to our merger, both Ecolab and 
Nalco had committed to improving operations and reducing 
environmental impacts by establishing key environmental metrics. 
We merged our companies December 1, 2011, and as we complete the integration of the companies in 2012, we will establish new 
goals for our combined company. As part of that process, we are 
recapping progress as separate companies through 2011, as a final report on our prior targets.
Greenhouse 	Gases
Ecolab pledged to reduce U.S. greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) by 20 percent per dollar of sales by the end of 2012 (from a 
2006 baseline). At the close of 2011, we achieved a 19 percent 
reduction, attaining 95 percent of the goal within 83 percent of the established time frame. In 2009, Ecolab expanded reporting 
to global GHG emissions and since that time our absolute 
emissions have dropped 4 percent.The Carbon Disclosure Project acknowledged these efforts by recognizing Ecolab as one of only 11 companies named to the 
2011 Carbon Performance Leadership Index.
Energy
In 2007, Nalco set a target of reducing its total energy use 
globally by 10 percent by the end of 2012. Numerous projects 
over the past four years allowed us to cut energy use by  
8.4 percent by the end of last year, achieving 84 percent of  
our goal within 80 percent of the established time frame. Our 
overall energy efficiency improved even more: a 21.1 percent 
decrease in energy per metric ton of product.
Water, 	Wastewater 	and	Waste
In 2009, Ecolab set ambitious goals to reduce its global water  
consumption, disposed waste and wastewater from its  
manufacturing operations by 18 percent per metric ton of product 
shipped by 2015. Waste reduction progress was very strong,  exceeding that goal by achieving a 19.8 percent drop within two 
years. However, our water and wastewater performance was not 
as strong, as both increased due to our higher production levels.Environmental Performance  
Additional information on our performance can be found in the Detailed Appendix to this report available at www.ecolab.com/csr.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201121
Taking 	Action 	for	Improvement
While we made good progress on many of our previous goals, 
we realize environmental improvements are never “done” but 
require ongoing planning and attention. Many actions taken in 
2011 will continue to reap rewards in the future and new efforts are being implemented to build on that success.
Last year more than 24 energy reduction projects were 
completed at 10 different locations. These projects, including higher efficiency boilers, air dryers, HVAC units and improved 
lighting and insulation, will result in an estimated annual energy 
savings of more than 36 million kilowatt hours.
Since 2006, the 7,000-vehicle Ecolab U.S. fleet has reduced 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 22 percent, normalized 
to sales. Moving to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles cut fuel consumption 8 percent, despite an increase in number of 
vehicles and total miles driven.
Numerous water reduction projects were identified in 2011. 
Process and equipment changes at our Joliet, Ill., plant will cut 
annual water use by 24 million gallons. Our Texarkana, Texas, 
plant developed an innovative process to collect rain water and use it in its air cleaning system, reducing freshwater use. 
The Martinsburg, W. Va., plant implemented a process change 
to capture and reuse material from washing lines in the next production batch, reducing water usage by 2 million gallons  
per year and decreasing wastewater production.Normalized 	Emissions 		
(tCO2e/$M)Ecolab 	Normalized 		
U.S.	GHG	Emissions
Nalco 		
Total 	Energy 	Used
Total 	Energy 	Reduction 	2007–2011Thousands 	of	GJs%	Change 	from 	Base 	Year
Gigajoules 	per		
metric 	ton	produced
Going 	Forward
As part of our integration, new short-term goals already  
have been established for our manufacturing plants, targeting reductions in absolute water and energy use as well as use 
per metric ton of our products produced. We have begun implementing our “Create and Maintain Value” approach at  
our own facilities — a continuous improvement process our  
sales engineers use at customer locations to identify best 
practices to reduce energy and water use by installing  
state-of-the-art technology.
More than 60 percent of our manufacturing plants worldwide 
are certified under the globally recognized environmental 
management standards of ISO 14001 and Responsible Care 14001, 
with more sites preparing for certification in the future. Every three years, each certified site undergoes a recertification 
audit of its environmental management system. In addition, both 
Ecolab and Nalco have rigorous internal auditing processes. We are evaluating both current processes and will incorporate 
the best practices of each into a new, company-wide auditing 
program that will continually improve our safety, health and environmental performance.2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2007 2008 2009 2010 201177.8 74.6 72.3 72.5 65.7 63
N/A -4.1% -7.0% -6.9% -15.5% -19.0%
2,641
2.422,530
2.192,231
2.262,342
1.992,421
1.91
-8.4%22
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
Working to ensure the safety of our 
employees, contractors, customers and 
communities is vital to how we operate.
Safety is a critical part of how we work and is gaining renewed 
focus as we combine Ecolab and Nalco systems, processes and 
programs to shape our new safety culture. This effort provides 
the opportunity to take the best from each to ensure constant progress toward our goals of zero — zero accidents, injuries, 
fatalities and releases. 
Globally we are deploying these best practices across three 
dimensions: Cultural, Structural and Quantitative. Culturally, 
we want to make safety a personal value for all employees. 
Our “Reaching Hearts and Minds” communications campaign encourages employees to be accountable for their own safety 
and for the safety of those around them, 24 hours a day,  
seven days a week, 365 days a year.
We are driving structural best practices to manage risk 
and improve results. For example, we’re expanding Ecolab’s 
Compliance Assessment Process (ECAP) to improve safety, health and environmental compliance and reduce risk within 
manufacturing, sales, R&D and logistics. One of the greatest 
risks we face daily is driving. Our use of onboard monitoring devices provides drivers with immediate feedback that improves their behavior and encourages safe driving habits. Other best practices include fostering employee well-being through industrial 
hygiene, surveillance monitoring and ergonomic programs.
Leaders are accountable for the actions of those they  
supervise and we seek to create an atmosphere that not only 
makes it acceptable to identify and point out unsafe practices, 
but essential. We have instituted a Safety Leadership training course to integrate safety into leadership at all levels of  
the organization.
We track recordable injuries and vehicle accidents even 
though they are lagging indicators because it is important 
to quantify our performance. We are even more focused on 
leading indicators — activities that drive or help us predict future performance. These are critical in helping us cultivate 
a proactive, preventive mindset. Leading indicators focus on 
behaviors and activities we are trying to encourage including:
•  P erforming risk assessments (identifying potential  
workplace hazards)
•  P articipating in safety training 
•  R eporting near-miss incidents, and 
•  R esponding to the recommended improvements  
from our ECAP auditsSafety SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201123Our	Performance
Among our Key Performance Indicators for workplace safety are well-recognized 
industry measures: the Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) and the Total Vehicle 
Accident Rate (TVAR). The TRIR is the rate of injuries per 100 full-time workers.  
The TVAR is the number of accidents per million miles driven. 
For Nalco in 2011, the TRIR decreased by 25 percent from 2010. At 0.43, this was the 
lowest TRIR in Nalco history and exceeded our target of 0.48. This placed Nalco among 
the top 25 percent of companies in our industry. The TRIR has decreased more than 49 percent since 2007.
The TVAR for Nalco dropped 8 percent from 2010 to 2.1, exceeding the goal of 3.0. The 
TVAR has improved for three consecutive years and declined by 47 percent since 2007. Nalco also tracked the Severe Vehicle Accident Rate (SVAR) which measures driving 
accidents resulting in death, bodily injury, disabling or rollover of a vehicle. In 2011, the 
rate improved 8 percent to 0.22, exceeding our goal of 0.27. It has improved 63 percent since we began tracking the measurement in 2008.
The Ecolab TRIR improved 9 percent as well, decreasing to 4.25 in 2011 from 4.67 in 
2010. This represents 47 fewer injuries. The TRIR has decreased by 11.6 percent since 2007. The TVAR for Ecolab was 6.2 in 2011, a 6.7 percent improvement from 2010 and  
a 15.3 percent improvement since 2007.America’s 	Safest 	Companies
Nalco was named one of America’s Safest Companies by EHS Today magazine for 
providing a safe working environment  
for employees, achieving world-class safety status.
Fleet 	Safety 	Award
Nalco’s European operations won the 2011 International Fleet Safety Award from  
Fleet Europe magazine for implementing a fleet safety program focused on original tools and programs to improve driver 
safety while also optimizing Total Cost  
of Operations.
Additional information on our performance can be found in the 
Detailed Appendix to this report available at www.ecolab.com/csr.Total 	Vehicle 	Accident 		
Rate	—	Ecolab 	TVAR 	Year-over-Year7%
since 	2007 15%Total 	Vehicle 	Accident 		
Rate	—	Nalco 	TVAR 	Year-over-Year8%
since 	2007 47%Total 	Recordable 		
Injury 	Rate	—	Ecolab 	TRIR 	Year-over-Year9%
since 	2007 12%Total 	Recordable 		
Injury 	Rate	—	Nalco 	TRIR 	Year-over-Year 25%
since 	2007 49%improved
improved
improved
improved
24
WWW.ECOLAB.COM/CSR
We are passionate about service and support 
for where we live and work and for those in 
need, always seeking to enhance the well-being of people and communities.
Ecolab and Nalco both have long histories of supporting our 
communities, including a tradition of making significant personal 
and financial contributions to organizations that work to improve 
them. Our employees are active volunteers for local and national organizations, as well as serving as board members on them. 
We are also active in other community efforts including work to 
support community blood drives, food collections, support for schools and many other local programs.
In-Kind 	Contributions 	and	Volunteerism
By donating products, equipment, time and expertise, we assist those in need in many ways.
Ecolab annually donates needed cleaning, health and sanitizing 
products to organizations in areas where natural disasters have occurred, benefitting thousands. After severe storms and record 
flood levels in the U.S., the devastation of the earthquakes and 
tsunami in Japan and a destructive typhoon in the Philippines, Ecolab immediately sent cleaning and sanitizing products to 
assist with relief efforts. Other countries where Ecolab provided 
donations in response to natural disasters in 2011 included Mexico, Turkey, Brazil and the Dominican Republic.Ecolab employees and retirees volunteered more than  17,000 hours of their time in 2011 at organizations such as:
• Habitat for Humanity
•  An e-Men tor program to help students develop  
professional real-world working skills,
•  Pr oject Homeless which serves more than  
1,400 homeless citizens
In addition, our Science Education Leadership Team volunteers 
increased science, technology, engineering and math awareness for more than 2,000 students.
In 2011, Nalco employees provided in-classroom demonstrations 
to more than 6,700 Chicago-area third grade students to inspire them to pursue math and science through “Science Is Fun.”
Since 2009, Nalco employees have supported World Water 
Corps, the volunteer arm of Water For People, an international, nonprofit organization increasing access to water and sanitation 
in developing countries. As part of this effort, Nalco employees 
donated their time for trips in Latin America and Africa, surveying water, hygiene and sanitation in homes, schools 
and healthcare centers. In addition, they evaluated and tested 
community water quality and supply points.Social Responsibility  
Additional information on our performance can be found in the Detailed Appendix to this report available at www.ecolab.com/csr.SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201125
Community 	Support
Ecolab employees pledged more than $1.1 million through the 
annual Community Giving Campaign to support local United 
Ways, Global Impact (which funds 62 U.S.-based international 
charities) and our Health & Wellness partners — the American Cancer Society, American Heart Association and American 
Diabetes Association.
Nalco employee contributions helped provide aid to Japan, 
Brazil and Australia following natural disasters. Corporate giving 
matched those funds, and supported the Juvenile Diabetes 
Research Foundation and the United Way with total corporate giving of more than $300,000.
Ecolab 	Foundation
In 2011, the Ecolab Foundation continued its strong giving tradition by contributing nearly $5.2 million to community 
partners across the United States focused on:
•  Youth 	and	education , granting $720,000 through our 
Visions for Learning program providing curriculum-enhancing materials for teachers in communities where Ecolab has a 
significant presence across the U.S.
•  Civic 	and	community 	development , supporting work 
and housing programs for poor and working families and 
community-based grants meeting immediate needs where  
we have significant operations
•  Arts	and	culture , for organizations offering strong education 
and community outreach programs promoting artistic and cultural diversity•  Environment 	and	conservation , primarily to active 
environmental learning programs for youth
•  Industry 	contributions , reflecting our commitment to  
non-profit programming that supports many of the industries we serve
Nalco 	Foundation
The Nalco Foundation has targeted projects mainly tied to the 
global issue of water quality and scarcity. 
In 2011, a three-year grant of $500,000 was made to Water 
For People to fund water, sanitation and hygiene programs in West Bengal and Bihar, India. The grant will help to provide 
sustainable community water systems, additional sanitation 
options for homes and schools and hygiene education programs. 
A three-year, $450,000 commitment to World Wildlife Fund 
(WWF)-US is funding a water stewardship program that is 
identifying solutions to protect Taihu Lake, the third largest freshwater lake in China and a primary water source for more 
than 33 million people around Shanghai.
To prepare for future disaster response, the Nalco Foundation 
funded a mobile water purification unit for the Indonesian 
branch of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red 
Crescent Societies, and Nalco donated test equipment to support the water purification process.$8,205,281
$2,552,085	
InKind/Volunteer 	Hours/ 	
Disaster 	Relief
$457,381 	
Corporate 	Giving
$5,195,815	
Ecolab 	FoundationTotal 	Ecolab 	Giving 	2011 2011	Ecolab 	Foundation
Environment 	&	
Conservation5%
Youth 	&		
Education 33%Arts	&	
Culture 12%
Civic 	&	
Community 	
Development 34%Industry 	
Foundation 16%
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 25This report was designed and printed  
by WBENC-Certified firms. Printed using 
agri-based inks on FSC® certified paper.
Worldwide Headquarters
370 Wabasha Street N  St. Paul, MN 55102www.ecolab.com  1 800 2 ECOLAB
©2012 Ecolab USA Inc.  All rights reserved. 43643/0800/0212  B-373The eROI value program is an Ecolab approach to  
documenting and communicating the environmental and financial results we deliver to our customers.
BREAXIT, Crossbow, eROI, 3D TRASAR, eVerified, Nalco and the 
logo are trademarks of Nalco Company. Advantis, Apex, Aquanomic, Cleaning Caddy, DryExx, EnCompass, Ensure, Oasis Pro, Virasept, Wash’n Walk, Ecolab and the logo are trademarks of Ecolab USA Inc. The PepsiCo, Marriott and NV Energy logos are the trademarks of  the respective owners and are used with permission.Additional information on our performance can 
be found in the Detailed Appendix to this report 
available at www.ecolab.com/csr.