ChainVALUEreduce WASTEABUNDANT  
ENERGY
CONSERVESolving Global Challenges
 SUSTAINABLY
  food safeBEHIND THE SCENES. AT THE FOREFRONT. Corporate Sustainability 20152    LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN ECOLAB    3
A Letter from the Chairman and CEO
Doing more with less must 
be part of the picture. 
Douglas M. Baker, Jr. 
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Front cover: Ameer Gobran, area manager, Food Retail Services, helped a chain of U.S. supermarkets save four million gallons of water per year. 
Learn more about the customer solutions on page 15 .We are facing challenges today on so many fronts — public  
health threats, water scarcity and environmental concerns,  
to name a few. And yet there are many reasons for optimism, 
which I think are well expressed in a Ralph Waldo Emerson quote: “This time, like all times, is a very good one, if we but know what to do with it.”
To know what to do in the face of unprecedented change, 
you need to first understand the macro trends shaping our world. A fast-growing, increasingly urban, increasingly affluent global population has higher standards and is generating great demand for goods and services. For economies to thrive, business needs to meet that demand while using fewer resources. At the same time, technology is reshaping the way people communicate and what they expect from the companies whose products and services they purchase.  
That means both increased risk and incredible opportunity. 
Today business is re-imagining how we provide people 
with food, goods, services, infrastructure, transportation, healthcare and every other necessary element of life in a radically different world. Doing more with less must be part  
of the picture. While solutions may differ by company, industry and region, one thing is certain: business as usual is not a sustainable option.  
HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS NAVIGATE CHANGE
We’re inspired by the commitment of our customers who are 
seeking new ways to lighten their environmental footprints while continuing to grow and expand. As the world’s leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services, we’re dedicated to helping our customers meet their sustainability goals through innovative and effective science, service and insights that drive lasting change across industries.
Every day, 47,000 Ecolab associates around the globe get 
to work, helping customers across industries by providing solutions at the intersection of performance and sustainability.  Our customer-centric business model provides a unique line of sight into the on-the-ground challenges and opportunities companies face today. Industry leaders look to Ecolab to help them enhance performance, reduce costs and minimize environmental impact, and we’re proud of our partnerships with them. 
DELIVERING SOLUTIONS TAILORED TO CUSTOMER NEEDS
With our global presence, we are well positioned to help 
customers across industries and geographies adapt and thrive in an era of resource constraints. Because we have 25,000 sales-and-service professionals around the world, we can provide a consistent level of support, informed by on-the-ground insights. Our sales-and-service team is backed up by more than 1,600 research, development and engineering experts who continue to develop effective, sustainable solutions, tailored to our customers’ needs. Many of them are highlighted in this report. As a pioneer in industrial automation, we leverage more than 36,000 sensing units in customer operations to deliver real-time insights that help inform faster, smarter decisions and better water management.  We see considerable opportunity to expand our ability to offer actionable data that drives sustainability improvements. Because we are so confident in our ability to save water, we have set a customer impact goal, aiming to conserve 300 billion gallons of water annually by 2030 by reducing water consumption within our own and our customers’ operations. This represents water conservation equaling the annual drinking needs of more than 1 billion people.  
HOLDING OURSELVES ACCOUNTABLE
We are applying the same insights and science we offer our 
customers to our own manufacturing plants, to support our growth and at the same time, reduce the resources we use. I’m particularly proud that in 2015 our plant in Taicang, China, received the world’s first certification from the Alliance for Water Stewardship for adopting the International Water Stewardship Standard, which promotes sustainable freshwater use. The fact that the plant operates in the water-sensitive region of the Taihu basin of the Yangtze River made this certification even more significant.
Always striving to do better, we are setting bolder 
environmental performance goals that align with our business growth strategy as we continue to work to decouple resource use from growth. By 2020, we aim to reduce water usage by  
25 percent and greenhouse gas emissions by 10 percent across all our manufacturing plants, compared to a 2015 baseline. 
It’s an exciting time to be at the forefront of sustainable 
growth. Economic growth and natural resource conservation are not opposing goals. It is our strong belief that they should, in fact, be complementary goals, achieved together to support strong economies and healthy societies as we move further into the 21st century.   
Sincerely,
 
Douglas M. Baker, Jr. 
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
SUSTAINABILITY AT A GLANCE
COMMITMENT TO SOLVING GLOBAL CHALLENGES  ........ 6-7
Glob
al Context  
........................................ 8-9
Our Appro
ach to Sustainability  
.......................... 10
Comp
any Overview  
...................................... 11
World-Clas
s RD&E  
....................................... 11
CUS
TOMER IMPACT ................................  12-
13
Retail and Services  
................................... 14-
19
Production and Manufacturing  
........................ 20
-25
Raw Materials and Ingredient Processing  
............... 26
-29
SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHT:  
CONSERVING & PROTECTING FRESH WATER  
.......... 30
-31
Water Stewardship ................................... 32
-33
Water Risk Monetizer  
................................ 34
-35
Solutions for Life .................................... 36
-37
OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ......................... 38
-39
Sustainability Goals and Environmental Performance  
....40-42
Pr
oduct Stewardship .................................... 43
Saf
ety.............................................. 44-
45
Recognition ............................................ 46
ABOUT THIS SUMMAR
Y 
.............................. 47
Our 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report and complete GRI Index can be found at: ecolab.com/sustainability
ECOLAB    5
 4    COMMITMENT TO SOLVING GLOBAL CHALLENGES
Science + Service =  
Partnering to Solve Global Challenge s S 
ustainably ORIGINAL DEFINITION OF 
sus·tain·a·ble (adj.)
Involving development that meets the needs  
of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
This definition brings the work Ecolab does every day clearly into focus. We are working 
at more than one million customer locations, helping companies rethink operations and business strategies to reduce use of natural resources and ensure long-term viability.  
This approach is core to our purpose and ingrained throughout our company. From how 
we operate and develop products to the way we work with customers and support our communities, we are working to deliver a “sustainable” future for everyone.
ECOLAB    7 6    8    COMMITMENT TO SOLVING GLOBAL CHALLENGES ECOLAB    9
35%  morefood
89
10134 5 6
7
Sources located on page 47.By 2030 the global population will need at least
the global population will reach
10    COMMITMENT TO SOLVING GLOBAL CHALLENGES ECOLAB    11
Our Approach  
to Sustainability
World-Class RD&E47,000  ASSOCIATES110+ NEW PRODUCT  
INNOVATIONS IN 2015
19 INNOVATION AND TECHNICAL  
SUPPORT FACILITIES7,100  PATENTS
$12.3 MILLION DONATED THROUGH  
ECOLAB FOUNDATION, CORPORATE  
GIVING AND VOLUNTEER HOURS$1 BILLION IN REVENUE FROM  
2015 NEW INNOVATIONS FORECASTED  
IN NEXT FIVE YEARS
Ecolab’s Research, Development and Engineering 
(RD&E) scientists are at the front line of customer applications, developing solutions that improve water and energy management, increase operational efficiency, enhance safety and preserve natural resources. In 2015, our research teams delivered the largest number of innovations in company history, and we have no plans to slow down. Our product systems and services are designed with intention — across sourcing, manufacturing, use and post-use — around the core product stewardship principles of:
 • Perf
ormance — uncompromised delivery 
 of outcomes
 • Health and s
afety of the people who develop,  
use and come in contact with our solutions
 • Envir
onment — protection and efficient use  
of natural resources
 •Cost
 — asset integrity and operational efficiency
Population growth, urbanization and the emergence of a 
much larger middle class are putting unprecedented pressure 
on the world’s most precious and limited natural resources.
These dynamics are creating new, increasingly complex challenges every day. Resource scarcity 
is the new normal and companies are adapting their operations to meet these growing and changing demands. 
Ecolab is behind the scenes — and at the forefront — of helping to solve these global challenges 
sustainably. As the global leader in water, energy and hygiene technologies and services,  Ecolab operates at the center of the water-energy-food nexus, helping companies in more  than 40 industries throughout the world grow and succeed while minimizing environmental impact. We help stores and food service businesses produce safe products, hotels and hospitals deliver clean and safe environments and energy companies access harder-to-reach resources more efficiently. While supporting our customers’ operations, we also reduce water and energy use and waste everywhere we can. 
SALES AND SERVICE ASSOCIATES25,000
RD&E SCIENTISTS, ENGINEERS  
AND TECHNICAL SPECIALISTS1,600
BILLION$13.5 2015 NET SALESCONSERVE
ELIMINATE
SAVEIn 2015, 
we helped customers142  
BILLION
GALLONS  
OF WATER 26.4  
MILLION
POUNDS  
OF WASTE 10.5  
TRILLION
BTUs OF 
ENERGY
solutionsexponential
VALUEHealthy  
ENVIRONMENTSProtect
WASTEChainBEHIND THE SCENES. 
AT THE FOREFRONT.
Pictured left: Steve Rock, District Account Manager, Energy Services, has been helping refineries in California conserve water for 35 years. 
Read about a Persian Gulf refinery on page 27  and a Gulf Coast refinery on page 29 . 
Ecolab associates partner with customers to help them do more with less — while achieving their business goals. 
The numbers tell the story best. Our proprietary eROISM value approach measures the economic, operational and 
environmental impact of our solutions. With performance outcomes uncompromised, we credibly deliver and 
document this exponential value to our customers.
                               Through customer stories, we demonstrate eROI imapct.
ECOLAB    13ECOLAB    15 14    CUSTOMER IMPACT | RETAIL & SERVICES
Toni Hofer 
Director Food Safety and Quality Assurance,  
Raley’s Supermarkets 
West Sacramento, Calif.Ecolab’s new (Food Safety) program is just 
one of the ways our company is leveraging innovation to help us reduce our overall environmental impact. New solutions like Whiteout and LmENTARY specifically help us achieve significant water and energy savings.The ongoing drought in the Western United States crystallized priorities 
for Raley’s Family of Fine Stores: the chain pledged to maintain or surpass high food safety standards and conserve water wherever possible. Based in Sacramento, Calif., Raley’s has 121 locations spread across Northern California and Nevada, regions plagued by intense water scarcity. 
Every day, people’s lives are enhanced by products and experiences made 
more sustainable, in part, because of Ecolab. Our innovative solutions, dedicated service and customized training help raise safety and sanitation standards in restaurants and hospitals, improve food safety standards in food processing operations, and help cooling, boiler and air handling systems perform efficiently.RETAIL & SERVICESRaley’s Supermarkets  |  case study
Innovative food safety solutions save four million gallons of water 
ECOLAB    17 16    CUSTOMER IMPACT | RETAIL & SERVICES
SaniSave® No Rinse Cleaner Sanitizer
LmENTARY No Rinse Drain & Floor Cleaner SanitizerWhiteout™ Power Foam
Kay® Solid Sense™ Cleaning SystemTECHNOLOGYRaley ’s Supermarkets (continued )
Using SaniSave® on the frequently cleaned deli slicer saves  
Raley’s staff time by eliminating the rinse step.
Raley’s kitchen floors and drains are cleaned and sanitized with 
LmENTARY — four products in one step, saving water, energy and end of day labor.Raley’s, a proven sustainability and food safety leader, teamed up with Ecolab to implement four innovative 
cleaning and sanitizing solutions at each of its stores, with a focus on simplifying store execution.
•  SaniS
ave® No Rinse Cleaner Sanitizer  
can be used to clean and sanitize deli food slicers and food prep areas. When used as a part of a complete food safety program, Raley’s had the confidence it needed  to provide quality and food safety to its customers.
•  LmENTARY No Rinse Drain & Floor Cleaner Sanitizer  
cuts required steps for deli floor and drain sanitation  in half and reduces listeria monocytogenes by  99.9 percent.
• 
 Whit
eout™ Power Foam 
delivers superior cleaning results for sanitation  of meat room equipment, floors and surfaces at  lower temperatures.  
• 
 Ka
y® SolidSense™ Sanitizer 
a powerful grease-cutting detergent and sanitizer mounted over deli sinks, packaged in easy-to-handle  blocks and a dispenser that ensures consistent dilution  for reliable results. 
 
Each of these sustainable solutions uniquely  
combines cleaning and sanitizing products to reduce or eliminate rinsing s
teps, ultimately delivering faster 
and more efficient cleaning. Achieving significant water and energy savings has allowed Raley’s to deliver sustainable food safety solutions that meet high standards, protect customers and support a great shopping experience.
100 TONS 
OF SHIPPING  
ELIMINATED  
BY USING  
CONCENTRATED DETERGENTS  
WITH LESS PACKAGINGkWh REDUCTION  
OF ENERGY USE  
IN ONE YEAR7.5 MILLIONOF LABOR SAVED23,000
HOURS
WORK  
SITE  
CONDITIONS
RISK OF SPILLS ,  
USE OF  
HOT WATER ,  
WEIGHT HANDLED   
BY EMPLOYEESIMPROVEDOF WATER SAVED IN ONE YEAR (EST.)4 MILLION  
GALLONS
A SAVINGS OF $18,500
5,172 METRIC TONS
OF CO 2e AVOIDED
$90,000 SAVINGS
ARE THE RESULT OF
REDUCINGBY
ECOLAB    19 18    CUSTOMER IMPACT | RETAIL & SERVICES
Tang Plaza and Marriott Hotel  |  case study  
Smart technology puts water and energy concerns to bed
Tang Plaza and its adjoining 392-room 
Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza Hotel had a sustainability goal of reducing water and energy use by 20 percent by 2020. In order to deliver on the corporate and local goals of achieving water and energy savings, the hotel was actively pursuing cost-effective ways to improve chiller operational efficiency, optimizing costs and minimizing break-downs to reduce total cost of operation and ensure guest satisfaction.
Ecolab partnered with Marriott staff to conduct a Mechanical, Operational, Chemical and Sustainability (MOCS) audit to identify the cause of a recent spike in water and energy use by the hotel’s four chillers and cooling tower system. 
Ecolab’s specialists employed  
3D TRASAR Optimizer to identify the roo
t cause and propose a solution.
The team installed a 3D TRASAR Solid Cooling Water System to monitor inherent variability in water conditions and control fluctuating water chemistry. The new system addressed the hotel’s operational challenges and delivered clear sustainability savings, putting the hotel on track to reach its goals by 2020. 
3D TRASAR™ Solid Cooling Water ProgramTECHNOLOGYA leading U.S. provider of white linens to hotels and restaurants 
wanted to employ every sustainable strategy available to reduce its water consumption. Having already invested in water-efficient tunnel washers, the company invited Ecolab to assess its operations for additional water and energy savings opportunities. Ecolab’s proprietary Ecometrix™ meter, which sends high-frequency sound waves, to read water flow and measure water usage through the walls of commercial laundry equipment, diagnosed two tunnel washers registering at excessive volumes. The washers were found to be set at 0.77 rather than the specified 0.55 gallons of water per pound. Correcting the settings saved an estimated 2,904,000 gallons of water over the course of a year. A third tunnel washer was sending treated water to the sewer and taking on fresh water with each fill. Immediate repair of the redirect valve saved an estimated 6,834,000 gallons of water in one year. 
With these results and Ecolab’s commitment to continuous 
improvement, the U.S. linen supplier expanded Ecolab’s service to all of its laundry operations. Linen Supplier   |  case study
Delivering bright whites with green initiatives
Ecometrix™TECHNOLOGYApex™ Conveyor
Specifically designed for food service businesses, the Apex™ Conveyor dishmachine reduces utility costs by  up to 50 percent by reducing water  and energy use while achieving best-in-class, one-pass cleaning performance. Automated procedures help make operations more efficient and reduce reliance on a dish machine operator.
 
Maxx2 
Designed specifically for all-purpose cleaning in facilities, Maxx2 minimizes environmental impact by reducing transport and packaging by 75 percent* while maximizing cleaning and hygiene standards. For every application, the  Maxx2 program provides peace of mind and higher performance. Maxx2 can be used at low concentration levels which  can also reduce cleaning costs.  
*When compared to competitors’  
product with a ready-to-use concentration 
of one per
cent.  
 
Sanitizing Wash ’n Walk 
Sanitizing Wash ’n Walk is the first Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)registered sanitizing no-rinse kitchen floor and drain cleaner for institutional businesses. Its enzyme-based formula helps reduce slips and falls by breaking down grease. No-rinse technology helps reduce water use and can reduce labor by up to 50 percent.RETAIL & SERVICES 
2015 PRODUCT INNOVATION  
HIGHLIGHTS
$21,238 WATER SAVINGS
43,738 kWh  REDUCTION  
OF ENERGY USE PER YEAR
EST . ANNUAL WATER SAVINGS        REDUCED MAINTENANCE
AND STORAGE FEES
$24,293 COMBINED
ANNUAL SAVINGS38% REDUCTION  
IN WATER USE PER YEAR 
20    CUSTOMER IMPACT | PRODUCTION & MANUFACTURING ECOLAB    21
Kemps has been a leading Midwest dairy producer for  
more than a century.   
Driven by a mission to “nourish families,” the wholly owned subsidiary of Dairy 
Farmers of America has long embraced innovation to achieve excellent taste and quality. Today, improving sustainability performance has become equally important. When the dairy producer decided to expand its product portfolio in 2013, Kemps turned to Ecolab to help address the two-fold mission of maintaining and enhancing high safety and taste standards while identifying ways to reduce water consumption and optimize cleaning cycles.CONSERVE
We always look for ways to operate more efficiently,  
but never at the cost of safety and quality.
Roger Domask 
Operations Manager, Kemps  
Rochester, Minn.
Kemps   |  case study
Dairy manufacturing plants reap benefits of more efficient cleaning  
Producing goods and services demands more of our natural resources. 
Fortunately, companies operating in this sector of the value chain in all corners of the world partner with Ecolab to optimize operations, minimize operational risks, conserve energy and water, reduce waste and improve safety. Evidence has proven that companies who foster a healthier environment enhance their competitive edge. Ecolab helps to enable this customer success.PRODUCTION & MANUFACTURING
22    CUSTOMER IMPACT | PRODUCTION & MANUFACTURING ECOLAB    23
Kemps installed Ecolab’s 3D TRASAR™ Technology for Clean-In-Place (CIP) to improve the efficiency of its cleaning 
processes. The solution provides round-the-clock monitoring of the plant’s existing controls and leverages Ecolab’s advanced chemical sensors to monitor cleaning and sanitizing performance. The new technology enabled the Kemps and Ecolab teams to “see” the volume of chemicals used on every single wash of the dairy equipment. This unique insight enabled the team to identify areas for improvement in the cleaning process. 
After one full year of operating 3D TRASAR Technology for CIP at its dairy plant, savings have been adding up. More consistent CIP performance helped the plant reduce water and thermal energy use, in addition to saving hundreds of hours of run time, extending the shelf life of its milk products, and reducing risk of cross-contamination. 
3D TRASAR™ Technology for CIP TECHNOLOGYKemps (continued )
The added visibility helps us pinpoint opportunities that 
affect critical outcomes in efficiency and product quality.
Prem Thakur 
Quality Assurance Manager, Kemps  
Rochester, Minn.Ecolab Associate Tony Simas and Kemp’s Quality Assurance Manager Prem Thakur are checking 
the numbers on the 3D TRASAR for CIP monitor
HOURS 
OF ENERGY
AVOIDING
24    CUSTOMER IMPACT | PRODUCTION & MANUFACTURING ECOLAB    25
Caraustar  |  case study 
California recycled paper board plant taps into recycled water and saves
The challenges of escalating water cost, 
as well as the recent water shortages 
because of the 3+ year drought,  have 
made this project not only a necessity, but a great success as well.
Mike Grover 
General Manager, Caraustar  
Santa Clara, Calif.When the severe drought conditions 
in California showed no signs of abating, Caraustar Industries faced an operational risk unless it reduced water usage. The solution came in terms the recycled paper board manufacturer understood: use recycled or processed water coupled with new technology. Caraustar implemented Nalco Water PARETO™ Mixing Technology to optimize its reclaimed water source. By replacing reclaimed water with process water in three cycles of the paper process system, the solution substantially reduced water use.
PARETO™ Mixing Technology 
TECHNOLOGYDrySan™ Duo 
Designed for dry-processing environments 
where products such as cookies and potato chips are manufactured, DrySan Duo is a revolutionary two-in-one cleaning and sanitizing solution that is EPA registered and safe to use on food-contact surfaces. Winner of the 2015 Institute of Food Technologies Food Expo Innovation Award, DrySan Duo is a ready-to-use, no-rinse product that effectively eliminates 100 percent of water from this cleaning step.
 
POSITEK™ 4g 9000  
POSITEK™ 4G 9000 Microparticle is a 
component of our comprehensive POSITEK™ papermaking performance package. This new colloidal silica dispersion aid is specifically formulated to improve On-Machine-Efficiency (OME) sheet quality, and improves retention and drainage in a cost-effective manner. Energy savings are derived from increased water removal and more efficient sheet pressing and drying. The solution delivers improved outcomes when used with PARETO™ Mixing Technology.
 
METRIX™ Titan Technology 
METRIX™ Titan technology is a novel program that delivers strength development, system charge balance and improved dewatering for the paper industry. It combines a multi-functional reactive polymer with Nalco Water’s advanced retention and drainage programs. The end result optimizes machine efficiency and productivity while maximizing sheet quality and strength.
 
PRISM — Fouling Control for 
Styrene Production  
The new PRISM products (EC3470A and 
EC3535A) help producers of styrene, a derivative from petroleum and natural gas to produce plastic, reduce and control polymerization with less toxic chemistries. This technology offers cost-effective, optimized polymerization control for styrene back end distillation, as well as reduced NOx emissions. The solution minimizes fouling and monomer loss and protects the unit during emergency shutdowns.
 PRODUCTION &  
MANUFACTURING 
2015 PRODUCT INNOVATION  
HIGHLIGHTSDanone  |  case study  
French-owned dairy plant quenches Russian 
thirst efficiently
Danone, a global food and drink processing company headquartered 
in Paris, France, had its dairy plant in Tchehov, Russia, operating at full capacity. In 2012, the plant’s new chilled water system churned out yogurt, cheese and dairy drinks for all of Russia and Commonwealth of Independent States countries, but it consumed excessive water and energy resources. In 2014, Danone asked Nalco Water, an Ecolab company, to conduct a Mechanical, Operational, Chemical and Sustainability (MOCS) audit of the water treatment system. After diagnosing the problem, Nalco Water installed 3D TRASAR™ for Cooling Water Technology in 2015. 3D TRASAR provides round-the-clock fine-tuning, faster problem solving and improved system operations, saving water and energy, while making efficient use of chemistry.
3D TRASAR™ for Cooling Water Technology TECHNOLOGY
28% REDUCTION   
IN WATER CONSUMPTION
10% REDUCTION  ENERGY USE  OF ENERGY USE
FROM REDUCED WATER USE
(SINCE 2012 INSTALLATION)
26    CUSTOMER IMPACT | RAW MATERIALS & INGREDIENT PROCESSING ECOLAB    27
productivityMAXIMIZE
Drilling down through the earth’s crust to harvest minerals. Pumping 
sea water through cooling pipes of an oil refinery. Processing raw sugar for food and beverage manufacturing. These are examples of the critical processes required to provide raw materials and energy for industry and ultimately customers. Ecolab solutions help reduce water and energy use and minimize the environmental impact of some of the most critical operations to produce and process core elements.RAW MATERIALS &  
INGREDIENT PROCESSINGSaudi Aramco, a major Middle East oil refinery situated near the Persian Gulf, was experiencing continuous fouling of its heat exchanger tubes and pipes due to algae and other microorganisms around the water inlet. The refinery partnered with Ecolab to identify a solution to address the resulting system failures and poor performance. 
Prior attempts to solve the problem with a chlorine 
dioxide program provided by an Ecolab competitor had been unsuccessful. Refinery management was dissatisfied with the monitoring and control system and had concerns about worker safety related to the storage of chemicals and the handling of generating equipment operations.Saudi Aramco  |  case study
Oil refinery cleans up, repairs less and saves big
Purate™ Chlorine Dioxide Technology TECHNOLOGY
Nalco Champion, an Ecolab company, provided an alternative solution. The team installed Purate™ Technology, a chlorine dioxide technology, to maximize  
the refinery’s productivity. 
This patented technology 
produces ClO2 on site from chlorate  and is therefore the 
most cost-effective program for these large once-through seawater systems. Within one month, 
microbial and fungal 
counts plummeted and cooling water  efficiency and plant 
reliability steadily improved.  
Saudi Aramco decided to use the Purate™ Technology as the best long-term solution to bio-fouling. The new technology met the customer’s sustainability criteria for improving safety standards for key personnel and environmental safety, as well as for reducing energy required to produce fresh water through thermal desalination of seawater. On Environmental Day, Riyadh Refinery operations manager Turki 
Abdulmalik explains the positive impact on safety aspects made by using Purate at Saudi Aramco operations. 
$500,000
FROM REDUCED MAINTENANCE
37,000 TONS
OF REDUCED CO2 EMISSIONS
(ANNUAL SAVINGS)$4,000,000 
28    CUSTOMER IMPACT | RAW MATERIALS & INGREDIENT PROCESSING ECOLAB    29
Cobre las Cruces  |  case study
Spanish copper mine strikes gold with water filtration technology
3D TRASAR™ Technology  
Nalco water treatment management strategyTECHNOLOGYU.S. Refinery  |  case study
RESOLV™ in, sludge out
When a Gulf Coast refinery came back online after a shutdown 
for cleaning, the crude unit feeding the main crude tank was contaminated with the resulting washings, hydrocarbon, solids and sludge. Analytical data and field observations identified Nalco Champion’s solution EC2600A, otherwise known as RESOLV™ emulsion breaker, as a short-term solution. RESOLV 
was added to the off-spec crude tank as it fed the crude blending tank, where an additional emulsion for heavy crudes was already 
in use, EC2472A. The unit responded well to the combined treatment and in three days the off-spec crude was completely processed. By implementing best practice strategies, Nalco Champion also identified ways to reduce electricity and water carried downstream.  
RESOLV™ emulsion breaker technologyTECHNOLOGYBlue Bell Odor Abatement 
(EC5990A) 
An additive designed specifically to 
neutralize nuisance odors common in refineries, hydrocarbon storage facilities and asphalt blending plants, rather than simply masking them. This unique odor abatement chemistry is especially effective for odors emanating from crude oil, heavy oils and asphalt.
FLOCMASTER™ light 
This top-rated dewatering product now delivers total cost of operation (TCO) savings for small- to medium-sized industrial companies of all varieties. Key features of the integrated operation include reduced waste production by dramatically improving sludge dewatering efficiency, an active polymer solution, automated equipment and a site-specific service program.
Flow Improvers for  
Heavy & Extra Heavy Oil 
Flow Improvers help extra heavy oil 
producers economically modify crude oil rheological properties to enhance flow, reducing the amount of diluent used in production and transportation.
Color Precipitant Program 
The Nalco Color Precipitant Program helps improve the brightness of sugar by removing the colorants from sugar juice in plantation sugar mills and sugar refineries, while reducing water and energy usage in the mill through centrifuge wash water reduction and reprocessing avoidance.RAW MATERIALS &  
INGREDIENT PROCESSING 
2015 PRODUCT INNOVATION  
HIGHLIGHTS
Water quality stands alone as the key to good 
quality, high-yielding copper extraction. Constant fluctuations in water quality created challenges for Cobre Las Cruces. To open a copper mining operation in southwestern Spain, efforts needed to be made to reduce its energy and water use and lessen its impact on the surrounding communities. A combination of 3D TRASAR™ Technology to monitor and improve water membrane filtration, plus a water treatment management strategy to enhance overall production, helped the company address this barrier. Even with treating the worst raw water quality due to mining extraction activity, these solutions improved the overall copper recovery system from 65 percent to 85 percent. Close cooperation between Nalco Water and the mining operation helped the company meet its sustainability goals.
Filtering sand and other pollutants from the water used at the copper 
mining operation in Spain poses a daily challenge.
$1,344,650 TOTAL  
ANNUAL COST SAVINGS 
CONSERVING & PROTECTING FRESH WATER
Ecolab Supports Water 
Conservation Efforts Around the World 
Fresh water is the world’s most 
precious natural resource. We all  
rely upon water and yet demand is putting pressure on limited supplies.   
Implications for businesses, communities and 
individuals are real. We must collectively focus our attention on ways to reduce, reuse, recycle and even restrict water use.  The daunting world water outlook calls for immediate and strategic action. That’s why Ecolab actively seeks to improve water stewardship within our own operations and within the watersheds in which we operate. Our commitment extends beyond our operations and our customers’ operations to partnerships with thought leaders and leading organizations that support responsible use of the world’s limited fresh water resources to the benefit  of nature, communities and business.
10 YEARS is the global risk of highest 
concern for the next The water crisis 
1 IN 10
people lack access to
Safe WaterNearly 50 COUNTRIES
are officially classified as being water stressed40%15BY 2030
Water Withdrawals
are predicted to increase byBy 202511
12
1314
16
ECOLAB    31 30    32    FRESH WATER CONSERVATION & PREVENTION ECOLAB    33
Leadership committed to the Water 
Stewardship Policy to protect the Taihu watershed which suffers from flooding, saltwater intrusion, droughts and significant water challenges.
Production team implemented plan:  
Increased cleaning water pressure, changed shower heads, shortened cleaning time and frequency and reused process wash water. 
The project team defined the scope, gathered catchment and site water data and prioritized water risks.
Performance and risks were evaluated and outcomes shared with stakeholders. 
The team defined steps to reduce water and operating costs and shared opportunities  with local government and businesses.
Ecolab’s Taicang team shared their water stewardship story and learnings.Beyond the work we do for our customers, 
we are ‘walking the water-saving talk.’ We recognize the need for urgent action — and dynamic strides — to reduce our water use and set an example for others in China.THE INTERNATIONAL WATER STEWARDSHIP STANDARD’S SIX-STEP FRAMEWORK
Laura Sheahen,  
Sustainability, Global Supply Chain1 2 3
4
6 5
2,315 M3 
ANNUAL WASTEWATER REDUCTION  2,315 M3  
ANNUAL TAP WATER SAVINGS $132,000  
ANNUAL COST SAVINGSSave the Water: Driving 
Global Water Stewardship
Ecolab supports global water stewardship by working with 
others to develop and adopt effective principles. 
In September 2015, Ecolab’s Taicang manufacturing plant was the first 
site in the world to receive the Alliance for Water Stewardship’s (AWS) International Water Stewardship Standard certification. 
The Standard provides a globally consistent 
and locally adaptable framework to inform decisions and encourage collective action to promote sustainable freshwater use.  
As a founding partner of the AWS Standard, 
Ecolab is helping to drive global adoption of the Standard. “As the first to become certified, Ecolab is paving the way for others to use the AWS Standard as a road map towards water stewardship for people, profits and nature,” said Karin Krchnak, director of freshwater programs at World Wildlife Fund (WWF). 
As a pilot site for the Standard, Ecolab China 
partnered with the WWF to address the unique challenges of the Taihu watershed area and designed the Taicang plant for environmental sustainability. The plant produces a complete portfolio of cleaning, sanitizing, food safety and infection prevention solutions. 
Ecolab engineers, plant operations managers 
and associates, along with the WWF, systematically worked through the Standard’s six-step continual improvement framework to achieve responsible water stewardship status for the Taicang plant, which opened in 2012. 
Benefits reached far beyond the numbers. 
Moving through the steps of the AWS Standard to achieve certification improved relationships with local government  and businesses, reduced system burden through less demand on the Yangtze River, and Ecolab’s team in Taicang paved the way for Ecolab facilities around the world to pursue water stewardship projects and facilitate discussions in their local catchments and communities.
In severely drought-stricken Southern 
California where the government has  imposed a strict water-reduction mandate, Ecolab has two plants moving through the steps for AWS certification. 
Pictured Above: Protecting the water-sensitive Taihu basin of the Yangtze region outside of Shanghai became a 
priority for Ecolab when it opened its plant in Taicang.
34    FRESH WATER CONSERVATION & PREVENTION ECOLAB    35
For companies around the world, water scarcity is becoming more than a hypothetical risk — it is a constraint to 
growth as demand for goods and services is on the rise. To mitigate risks and maintain their license to operate, companies are seeking to assess site-specific pressures and take action to minimize water use. Despite these increasing physical (quantity and quality), regulatory and reputational risks, water continues to be significantly undervalued in much of the world.  
Ecolab, in partnership with with Trucost, the natural capital experts, introduced the Water Risk Monetizer in 2014 to help all water users better understand and quantify water-related business risks. The tool provides a risk-adjusted water price that represents the full value of water to a business based on local-level demands and scarcity. 
In 2015, the tool was enhanced to enable businesses 
to evaluate potential revenue at risk due to water scarcity. By leveraging the information provided by the Water Risk Monetizer, businesses can take action now to reduce water use, and use the information to factor water scarcity into their decisions to support business growth. 
TOKYO
• •BEIJING
• •
SAO PAULO
• •LOS ANGELES
•NEW YORK
•CHICAGO
•
MEXICO CITY
• •
RIO DE JANEIRO
•LONDON
•
PARIS
•MOSCOW
•ISTANBUL
•
LAGOS
•
CAIRO
•MUMBAI
• •DELHI
• •GUANGZHOU
•SHANGHAI
• • • OSAKA
• •SEOUL
• •
• CITIES EXPERIENCING WATER SCARCITY OR CURRENT DROUGHT        • CITIES NOT EXPERIENCING WATER SCARCITY OR CURRENT DROUGHT
• TOP 10 LARGEST POPULATIONS          • TOP 10 FASTEST GROWING ECONOMIES          • TOP 10 BIGGEST ECONOMIESWater scarcity puts most of the  
world’s biggest economies at risk.“As we continue to expand our presence in over  
100 countries around the world, we recognize  
the growing challenges related to water scarcity.  
The Water Risk Monetizer helps us identify risks  
and take action where it’s needed most.”More than 2,000 unique users  
have tapped into the tool, which is 
available at no cost to the public.
www.waterriskmonetizer.com THE DISCONNECT BETWEEN MARKET PRICE 
& RISK MAKES IT HARD FOR BUSINESSES TO:
Make the case to invest in effective water strategies
Protect against water-related business challenges
Make optimal decisions about where to locate or expand operations
Maxime Verstraete,  
Vice President of Sustainability,  
Hilton Worldwide
What’s Water Worth?
The Water Risk Monetizer helps businesses understand water’s full value.
36    FRESH WATER CONSERVATION & PREVENTION ECOLAB    37
“It was a memorable experience to share 
with students the messages of health and 
sustainability that Ecolab lives by.”THE PROJECT WET FOUNDATION
Children from China to the Philippines, from Mexico to the 
United States are learning about water conservation and hygiene through curriculum provided by Ecolab and the Project WET Foundation, a global nonprofit organization. Ecolab committed $1.5 million for the development of the water-and hygiene-focused curriculum for youth, called  the Clean and Conserve Education Program. 
Educators and Ecolab associates around the world have 
downloaded the materials to share in their communities. Through strategic partnerships with education providers, the partners hope to reach two million people with the curriculum by 2017. In 2015, the Clean and Conserve program helped educate more than 24,000 people.
Minnesota, United States of America
Ecolab became the first company to contribute to the Minnesota Headwaters Fund, established to protect clean water in Minnesota’s lakes and rivers for the benefit of nature, people and business. The Fund will support protection and conservation work throughout the Upper Mississippi River basin, including 5,000-6,000 acres of easements, 20-40 miles of stream bank and floodplain restoration, and other projects that prevent pollutants from increased agricultural use, such as nitrates and sediment, from entering key rivers and lakes. Monterrey, Mexico
In Monterrey, Mexico, Ecolab expanded support for reforestation and other conservation methods to help slow the  
flow of water upstream from the city and provide clean water for this sprawling  
urban and industrial center. In October 2015,  
Ecolab supported TNC’s efforts to plant 20,000 white pine saplings in the Cumbres de Monterrey National Park to reforest  
20 hectares along the hillsides, which  
filter water used by Mexico’s third largest industrial center.
Shanghai, China
In 2015, Ecolab support enabled The Nature Conservancy to explore nature-based solutions to help secure water for China’s rapidly growing cities. This support included meeting with Chinese experts and applying the global Urban Water Blueprint approach to the unique attributes of the Chinese landscape. The resulting research indicates that investment in nature could help improve water quality for more than  
148 million people in China..THE NATURE CONSERVANCY
Solutions for Life expands Ecolab’s 25-year partnership with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) with a $2 million investment over three years in support of TNC’s “Securing and Restoring Water Sources Around the Globe,” initiative. The commitment will accelerate strategic efforts to conserve and restore irreplaceable sources of clean water in Minnesota and in water-stressed regions of China and Mexico.“With Ecolab’s support, The Nature Conservancy is 
protecting and restoring lakes and rivers that provide  
clean water in Minnesota and in water-stressed  
urban areas in China and Mexico.”
Solutions for Life, a philanthropic program launched in 2014, 
enhances the company’s mission to conserve water and improve hygiene around 
the world. The program aims to address urgent challenges with innovative solutions, strategic partnerships and employee volunteerism. Through Solutions for Life, Ecolab supports the work of two strategic global nonprofit partners:  The Nature Conservancy and the Project WET Foundation.
Lisa Zhou, 
Food & Beverage contract management 
supervisor in China, and an enthusiastic 
volunteer with the program.  Peggy Ladner, 
Minnesota Director, TNC
PEOPLE WOULD BENEFIT FROM NATURE-BASED 
SOLUTIONS TO IMPROVE WATER QUALITY
WHITE PINE SAPLINGS PLANTED TO SLOW 
EROSION AND AID IN WATER FILTRATIONOF STREAM BANK & FLOODPLAIN RESTORATION 
ALONG THE UPPER MISSISSIPPI RIVER BASIN 
BEGINNING AT ITASCA STATE PARK148 MILLION
20,00020-40 MILES
Pictured Above: Xiao Zhang, Principal Chemist, Research, 
Development & Engineering, volunteers with a program at 
BaiQuan Primary School in Chenzhou, Hunan province.
ECOLAB    39
Ecolab’s Clearing Plant associates 
saved water and energy in 2015. Learn more on 
page 42 .Sustainability is a foundational pillar 
of our operations strategy.  
While our gr
eatest impact will always be through our 
work with customers, our ability to do more with less 
internally is also important to the long-term success of our company and the health of the environment.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
Sustainability  
Starts Here 
38    40    OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ECOLAB    41
Fawley, United Kingdom
Moving to a closed loop cooling water 
system made this a “zero effluent plant” and reduced water consumption and effluent discharge by  
6.8 MILLION GALLONS COMMITMENT TO CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
To achieve these aggressive goals, we have expanded our Create & Maintain Value (CMV) program throughout 
our manufacturing facilities, with an emphasis on the facilities that have the greatest opportunity for resource savings. This approach mirrors the service we deliver to customers — leveraging the expertise of our Nalco Water service engineers, unique auditing and monitoring capabilities, and customized solutions to deliver substantial reductions in water and energy consumption.
25 %REDUCE WATER 
WITHDRAWAL BY
10%REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BYMaribor, Slovenia 
Automated tank washout procedures, 
saved the plant more than 2 million gallons of water which  
REDUCED TOTAL WATER 
CONSUMPTION BY 14%Nanjing, China 
Pump modifications and 
improvements to the plant’s steam trap and insulation  
REDUCED ELECTRICITY  
USE BY 560,000 KWH
Optimization of the plant’s  vessel clean out program  and modifications to its  softening system  
REDUCED WATER USE BY  
1.5 MILLION GALLONS
Naperville, Illinois
Nalco Water headquarters  maintained its  
LEED GOLD CERTIFICATION Corsicana, Texas 
The plant avoided sending  
118,000 POUNDS  
OF PROCESS WASTE   
to incineration.   Vancouver, Washington 
Converting all of the plant’s outdoor lighting to LEDs  
SAVED 39,000 KWH AND 
REDUCED ELECTRICITY USE BY NEARLY 5%
By 2030, Ecolab aims to conserve  
300  
BILLION  GALLONS  
OF WATER
annually by reducing water 
consumption within our own  and our customers’ operations.Equaling the annual drinking water needs of more than 
1 BILLION  
PEOPLEAt our more than 115 manufacturing plants, 
our corporate centers and research facilities, and across our team of 47,000 associates, we imbed sustainable practices to reduce our environmental impact.  
In 2015, we reevaluated our footprint and 
adopted practices that will enable us to deliver greater efficiencies throughout our operations while meeting increasing demand for our solutions and services. The result was incremental reductions in water and energy  use across our global manufacturing facilities.
2015 Environmental Performance 
Reduced total water withdrawl: -6.9% Reduced GHG emissions: -3.6%
Percent change from 2012 baseline; measured by  
intensity per million dollars in sales.CUSTOMER IMPACT GOAL ECOLAB’S 2020 GOALS 
AGAINST 2015 BASELINEIn 2015, this targeted approach  
had a measurable impact. Sustainability Goals 
and Performance
ANNOUNCEMENT OF NEW CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
As we look to 2020 and our ability to help customers do even more with less, we also will hold ourselves to higher 
environmental standards. New sustainability goals introduced in 2015 align with our long-term business strategy.
Measured by intensity per million dollars in sales. 
42    OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ECOLAB    43
2015 SUSTAINABILITY STEPS
“These and other steps our focus plants 
are taking will significantly reduce our 
water footprint and provide lessons we can 
use to improve water and energy savings 
across the supply chain. By improving 
water efficiency in our own operations, we 
demonstrate our commitment to being good 
stewards of our natural resources, aligning 
to our values as a company.”WATER REDUCTION HIGHLIGHT: 
CLEARING, ILLINOIS 
MANUFACTURING PLANT
Ecolab’s manufacturing plant outside Chicago in Clearing, 
Illinois, produces colloidal silica, a product used in industrial processes from paper making to polishing the glass of smartphone screens. Since the production process is relatively water intensive, the plant also is a strategic target for resource savings. Clearing plant manager Jim Kulesa partnered with Nalco Water experts to assess plant operations, develop a plan and implement water-saving strategies — the same process followed with customers.   
PICTURED ABOVE: Mary Lee, SHE superintendent, and Jim Kulesa, plant manager, stand 
near the controls for the newly installed 3D TRASAR unit on the Clearing Plant boiler. Optimized Water Use
in cooling towers for maximum efficiency  
Installed 3D TRASAR™ 
automation on the boiler to optimize water  
used in plant and process steam production
PROJECTED SAVINGS:
47,000 THERMS  of natural gas
1.6 MILLION GALLONS  of water/year
$36,000  cost savings/year
Introduced Clean-in-Place
technology in conjunction with  
3D TRASAR to optimize cleaning  practices between batches
SOLUTION SAVED:
ENERGY  & WATER
75% REDUCTION  in vessel downtime
Product 
Stewardship
Sustainability is a foundational  
pillar of our innovation strategy.  Our products and services are  known for best-in-class results  that help make the world cleaner, safer and healthier.   
True to our customer-centric approach, we  
continuously monitor and respond to our customers’ demand for solutions that address specific business needs and achieve their sustainability goals. We strive to align product use with customer expectations and external standards to deliver the most effective and sustainable solutions. Our commitment to product stewardship helps our customers tackle emerging  issues related to disfavored ingredients, water scarcity, oil and gas reserves, natural resource recovery, contamination control and infection prevention.
We consider it our responsibility to embed sustainability 
into each of our solutions. Our global chemical management strategy starts with a clear understanding of the human health and environmental safety of the ingredients which make up the building blocks of our product formulations. Next, our product safety team, made up of board-certified and Ph.D. toxicologists, conducts detailed science-based reviews of the substances used in our products and systems. Finally, our scientists screen every substance for compliance with global and regional chemical inventories and regulations.   
GLOBAL COMPLIANCE
We comply with regional and global guidelines and standards. For information on the Globally Harmonized System, Classification and Labelling of Chemicals, Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) and ethical sourcing, including management  of conflict minerals, please refer  to Ecolab’s 2015 GRI Index on:  www.ecolab.com/sustainability.
Alex Blanco, 
Executive Vice 
President and Chief Supply Chain Officer, Ecolab
44    OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ECOLAB    45
“I will use my bike reflectors, 
because my goal is zero.” 
Pavel Lvov,  
Business Development  Manager – Russia
 IN 2015, OUR ASSOCIATES SHARED  
THEIR REASONS FOR MAKING SAFETY  
A PRIORITY , TAKING OUR SAFETY  
PROGRAM TO THE NEXT LEVEL.“I will bring safety home, because my goal is zero.” 
Andrew Watters,  
SHE Manager,  Energy Services –  Dubai
SAFETY: Goal ZERO
From the way we operate, to the products we develop,  
to how we serve customers, our goal is zero: zero accidents, zero incidents and zero environmental releases.
At Ecolab, safety is personal. 
It is a state of mind. Every day, our associates integrate safe practices into their work and  life. Goal Zero is not only a company goal; it is a personal goal for every one of our associates because safety matters to each of us.TRAINING & EDUCATION
Education and training are core components of our strategy to ensure safety is everyone’s top priority. We engage our associates in proven programs and processes that improve personal safety. Our leadership practices encourage transparency at every level  of our organization. This intentional approach results in continuous improvement of our safety performance.
24
HOURS  
A DAY
7DAYS  
A WEEK
365DAYS  
A YEAR
MAKE SAFETY A PRIORITY
MITIGATING RISKS 
We track our performance on a range of leading and lagging safety indicators. A monthly assessment of our global safety dashboard data helps us identify underlying and potential risks, focus on areas of greatest need and measure the effectiveness of our safety programs.
Our proactive approach to risk 
identification enhances our comprehensive safety program and improves results. Through safety observations and audits, we identify, assess and address risks at our locations and customer facilities. In 2015, we recorded more than 82,000 safety observations globally, surpassing our goal of 64,000. We also completed 390 safety audits in 2015, an increase of more than  35 percent compared to 2014.
TOTAL VEHICLE  
ACCIDENT RATETOTAL RECORDABLE  
INJURY RATE
LOST TIME
INJURY RATE2014 3.09
2015 3.062014 1.55
2015 1.42
2015 .7723 %
REDUCTION  
SINCE 201235%
REDUCTION  SINCE 2012-8.4 %
YEAR OVER YEAR REDUCTION-1.0 %
YEAR OVER YEAR REDUCTIONNUMBER OF ACCIDENTS PER MILLION MILES DRIVEN
NUMBER OF INJURIES PER 100 EMPLOYEES 
46    ABOUT OUR REPORT ECOLAB    47
SUMMARY
This summary provides highlights of Ecolab’s 2015 
Corporate Sustainability Report, focused on where we have the greatest impact on the world:  
our customers, our operations and the communities in which we operate.
Ecolab’s Comprehensive 2015 Corporate 
Sustainability Report, for reporting period  
January 1 through December 31, 2015, is available at Ecolab.com/sustainability. The report has been completed in alignment with the guidelines of  
the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 framework. 
In keeping with our commitment to transparency 
and disclosure, Ecolab responds to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index RobecoSAM Sustainability Assessment and the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Carbon, Water and Supply Chain surveys. In addition, we are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate and file an  
annual Communication on Progress as part of  
those commitments.
The customer impact stories included in this 
summary are supported by comprehensive,  
verified case studies.MATERIALITY
At Ecolab, sustainability is core to our business strategy of delivering solutions that help companies around the world achieve great results and operate more sustainably. The work we do matters, and the way we do it matters to our employees, customers, investors and communities.
The parameters of our 2015 Corporate Sustainability 
Report have been established based on a strategic assessment of the issues that our stakeholders care most about, are of greatest relevance to our business strategy and impact our ability to deliver on our promise to make the world cleaner, safer and healthier . This approach to materiality aligns with our corporate sustainability strategy to address some of the world’s most pressing and complex challenges through our own operations and the solutions we provide to our customers.
Our 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report  
and complete GRI Index can be found at:  ecolab.com/sustainabilityAbout Our Report Awards & Recognitions
Because of our positive impact, and because of our great global team, we are 
often recognized as a high-performing and responsible corporate citizen. 
Ranked #50 
 2nd Consecutive Year 
China’s Top 100 
 Green Companies 
Global Trends Sources: pages 8 and 9
1.  “World Population Projected to Reach 9.7 Billion by 2050. ”United Nations Department of Economic and S
ocial Affairs, 29 July 2015. Web. 19 May 2016.
2. “Mid-year Population by Older Age Groups and Sex - World - TOTAL FOR SELECTED REGION.”  
      International Database. United States Census Bureau, 9 July 2015. Web. 19 May 2016.
3.  Homi, Kahr
as. “The Emerging Middle Class in Developing Countries.”Brookings Institute (June 2011):  
World Bank. Web. 26 May 2016.
4. “ The Unit
ed Nations World Water Development Report.” World Water Development Report | United 
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. UNESCO, 2015. Web. 26 May 2016.
5.  Alexandratos, Nikos, and Jelle Bruin. “WORLD AGRICULTURE TOWARDS 2030/2050 The 2012 Revision.” 
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (2012): n. pag. FAO, June 2012. Web. 26 May 2016. 
6.  “ World Energy Needs and Nuclear Power.” World Energy Needs and Nuclear Power. World Nuclear As
sociation, May 2016. Web. 26 May 2016.
7.  ” The Global Risk
s Report 2016 11th Edition.” World Economic Forum(2016): n. pag. World Economic 
Forum. Web. 26 May 2016. 8.  “ Re
sources.” What a Waste: A Global Review of Solid Waste Management. World Bank, July 2012. Web. 
26 May 2016.
9.  “ International Urban De
velopment: Chapter 3.” Water Scarcity Sources. Pg 31. World Bank, n.d. Web. 
19 May 2016. 
10.  World E
conomic Outlook: Adjusting to Lower Commodity Prices. World Economic Forum, Oct. 2015. 
Web. 26 May 2016.
Water Scarcity Sources: page 31
11.  World Economic Forum, 2016
12.  OECD: OE
CD Environmental Outlook to 2030, 2008
13.  “ Progr
ess on Drinking Water and Sanitation,” 2015 Update and MDG Assessment: World Health 
Organization and UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme (JMP). (2015)  
14. U.S. Geological Survey, 2009
15. U.S. Drought Monitor. Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research. April 2015. 16. UNEP: Global Environment Outlook Report GEO-4, 2007
— Forbes 2015 —  
AMERICA’S BEST 
EMPLOYERS
Ecolab Global Headquarters
370 Wabasha Street North
St. Paul, MN 55102ecolab.com1 800 2 ECOLAB
© 2016 Ecolab USA Inc. All rights reserved. 49370/0800/0216Our 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report can be found at: ecolab.com/sustainabilityOur 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report and complete GRI Index can be found at: ecolab.com/sustainabilityThis report was printed by a WBENC-Certified firm.  
Printed using agri-based inks on FSC®-certified paper.