Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Corporate  
Social
Responsibility 
Report2016Corporate Social Responsibility Report2
Chairman’s Message 
Company Profile
Environmental Stewardship
Integrity & Ethics 
Corporate Governance
People & Workplace
Supply Chain
Community Involvement
GRI Index03
04
05
15
21
25
32
35
39TABLE OF CONTENTS EMERSON HEADQUARTERS
St. Louis, MOCorporate Social Responsibility Report3
The past two years marks a period of significant change at Emerson as we realigned our business portfolio for our 
future success. We executed our plan (announced on June 30th 2015) to transform the company into a more focused 
enterprise. In 2016, we entered into agreements to sell the Network Power, Leroy-Somer, and Control Techniques 
businesses at favorable values. Our remaining businesses, which hold leading positions in their served markets, 
have been realigned around two new business platforms: Emerson Automation Solutions and Emerson Commercial 
& Residential Solutions. And we acquired Pentair’s $1.5 billion valves and controls businesses to strengthen our 
automation portfolio. The last of these major changes was completed by April 2017. 
As we repositioned Emerson to be a more growth-oriented and economically sustainable enterprise for the next 
generation, we also worked to strengthen our approach to environmental sustainability and social responsibility.
We continue to drive innovation in our products, technologies, and services to reduce energy consumption and 
improve productivity for our customers. Automation Solutions introduced the Plantweb™ digital ecosystem which 
links our digital plant architecture for process control, safety and asset management with the power of the Industrial 
Internet of Things (IIoT). This helps to deliver improved performance in safety, reliability, production and energy 
use for our industrial customers. Emerson Commercial & Residential Solutions is working with the commercial 
refrigeration industry on systems that use more environmentally-friendly refrigerants. They are also working with 
customers in China to switch from local coal-fired, smog-producing boilers for residential heating to the use of 
modern energy-efficient electric heat pumps. We are working across this company to be more environmentally safe, 
cleane, and  more sustainable. 
We also reaffirmed our commitment to improving internal operations. Safety is a priority at all of our 
manufacturing and office facilities around the world. This message has had an impact as our total recordable 
incident rate globally has fallen each year for the past five years, but we must be ever more vigilant to ensure the 
health and safety of our employees in the workplace.
As a company competing to recruit and retain the best talent for our management, engineering, and production 
needs, we are committed to making Emerson a more diverse and inclusive organization at all levels. In 2016, we 
began unconscious bias training for managers and employees, and this training was expanded in 2017. We have 
encouraged the growth of our Emerson Women in STEM organization to provide networking and professional 
development for women employees in engineering and other professional roles in our company.
I am also proud of how Emerson and its employees are helping to improve the communities where we operate. We 
are funding a wide range of programs and employees are volunteering in our communities to make a real and positive 
difference in people’s lives, from Ferguson to rural China. Through our “We Love STEM” initiatives, we’re helping make 
young people aware how Science, Technology, Engineering and Math classes help prepare them for future career 
opportunities. As a company, our focus is to help today’s youth understand that manufacturing is very important to 
the global economy and we can make a difference.
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I want to thank our employees around the world for living our core values and 
helping make Emerson an ethical and more economically, environmentally, and socially responsible company. 
Through this Corporate Social Responsibility Report and our other communications, we are committed to 
maintaining an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders on our efforts and progress in these areas.
Sincerely,  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
Chairman’s Message
David N. Farr
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerCorporate Social Responsibility Report4
Company Profile
Emerson is a diversified global manufacturing company that brings technology and engineering 
together to provide innovative solutions to customers in the industrial, commercial, and consumer 
markets. Founded in 1890, Emerson is incorporated under Missouri law and is a publicly traded 
company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EMR).
This report focuses primarily on information and data on the company’s business and operations during 
2016, a year of challenging market conditions and of transformational change for the company as we 
realigned our business portfolio to be a more focused enterprise. During 2016, the company sold the 
Network Power business (closed in December 2016) and the power generation and motors and drives 
businesses (closed in May 2017). The company’s most significant acquisition during this time period was 
the purchase of Pentair’s Valves & Controls business (announced in August 2016 and closed in April 2017). 
The company portfolio now consists of two business platforms: Emerson Automation Solutions 
and Emerson Commercial & Residential Solutions. Our Emerson Automation Solutions business 
helps process, hybrid, and discrete manufacturers maximize production, protect personnel and the 
environment while optimizing their energy and operating costs. Our Emerson Commercial & Residential 
Solutions business helps ensure human comfort and health, protect food quality and safety, advance 
energy efficiency, and create sustainable infrastructure.
In fiscal 2016, the company had approximately 74,000 employees and 155 manufacturing locations worldwide 
(excluding discontinued operations). The company’s global revenue was $14.5 billion in fiscal 2016. 
Additional information regarding our company and businesses, including products, brands, and 
markets served, can be found at Emerson.com and in our latest Annual Report to Shareholders  and 
Form 10-K filing  with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission.
MEMBERSHIPS
Emerson, its senior management and its employees are associated with a wide range of business-
related initiatives and organizations around the world. Here are just a few examples: Air-Conditioning, 
Heating & Refrigeration Institute , Air Conditioning Contractors of America , CEO Action for Diversity & 
Inclusion , The Conference Board , Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative , The Consortium for Graduate Study 
in Management , European Heat Pump Association , European Partnership for Energy & the Environment, 
National Association of Manufacturers , National Electrical Manufacturers Association , Society of 
Women Engineers .  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report5
These goals aren’t mutually exclusive. Across our business units, Emerson’s 
core mission is to deliver solutions that enable our customers to operate 
at peak efficiency and performance. We help customers to maximize 
reliability, reduce energy costs, automate processes, reduce waste, and 
avoid unexpected issues. We focus on the same priorities within our own 
manufacturing operations.
Our Technologies for Customers                                 
Emerson is focused on helping our customers with the most complex and 
important challenges facing the world in the process, industrial, commercial, 
and residential markets. Our Automation Solutions business is helping 
customers make the greatest use of the world’s valuable resources, helping 
nations move their economies forward in responsible ways, enabling the 
performance and safety of industries, and advancing the industries that are 
the backbones of daily life. Our Commercial & Residential Solutions business 
is helping customers ensure human comfort and health, protecting food 
quality and sustainability, advancing energy efficiency and environmental 
conservation, creating sustainable infrastructure, and continuing research 
and development momentum.  
Following are a few examples of meaningful Emerson innovation at work for 
customers and society: Stewardship   |   Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
Environmental
Stewardship
As a public company, Emerson develops and markets innovative 
technologies and services that meet the needs of our customers, provide 
jobs for our employees, and create value for our stockholders. As an industry 
leader and a corporate citizen in our communities, we also seek to improve 
quality of life, reduce the impact of our operations and products on the 
environment, and to leave the planet in a better place for future generations.
We help customers to 
maximize reliability, reduce 
energy costs, automate 
processes, reduce waste, and 
avoid unexpected issues.Corporate Social Responsibility Report6
LAUNCH OF NEW PLANTWEB™ DIGITAL ECOSYSTEM                                
First introduced as the industry’s most advanced digital plant architecture 
for process control, safety and asset management, Plantweb now harnesses 
the power of the Industrial Internet of Things to expand digital intelligence to 
the entire manufacturing enterprise, while also providing an architecture for 
on-premise applications. Plantweb provides a comprehensive framework to 
help manufacturers achieve Top Quartile performance in the areas of safety, 
reliability, production and energy use. Top Quartile is defined as achieving 
operations and capital performance in the top 25 percent of peer companies.
DRIVING INDUSTRY INNOVATION TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCY                                
In April 2016, Emerson opened The Helix Innovation Center on the campus 
of the University of Dayton (Dayton, OH, USA), an industry-first facility 
dedicated to advancing research for the global heating, ventilation, air 
conditioning, and refrigeration (HVACR) industry.  The Helix provides a space 
for Emerson to collaborate with customers, HVACR industry partners, and 
competitors, as well as experts from other industries. Emerson has invested 
$35 million in this facility and staff which seeks to advance HVACR ideas 
from concept to prototype in 90 days or less, generating new opportunities 
to increase health and comfort, and reduce energy consumption and 
environmental impact.
Examples of work at The Helix in 2016-2017 include:
 >To help industry partners improve ice machine efficiency, Emerson 
developed and filed a patent application for a computer simulation model 
of a commercial ice machine in September 2016. The new computer 
simulator was tested to be within 5 percent accuracy of actual ice machines. 
Emerson’s work on ice machine efficiency is aimed at helping the industry 
address the U.S. Department of Energy’s target of reducing energy usage in 
ice machines that produce 50 to 4,000 pounds per day by 10 to 15 percent 
by 2018.       
 > In 2016, Emerson installed an industrial refrigeration system module 
at The Helix Innovation Center that can be used for testing larger cold 
storage systems using CO2, a natural refrigerant that is considered more 
environmental friendly than HFC (hydrofluorocarbon) refrigerants.  Carbon 
dioxide has no ozone depletion potential and negligible direct global 
warming potential when used as a refrigerant in closed cycles. The system 
at The Helix allows Emerson engineers and product development staff 
to create a CO2 subcritical cascade system providing insights into the 
entire process from design to installation, start-up commissioning and 
performance testing.
Emerson has been so encouraged by industry and academic interest in the 
HVACR arena that the company opened a second Helix Innovation Center at 
Georgia Tech University’s Technology Square in midtown Atlanta in the fall of 
2016. The Atlanta location will serve as a focal point of Emerson’s collaboration on 
Big Data and Internet of Things concepts for the HVACR industry.  Stewardship   |   Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
THE HELIX INNOVATION CENTER AT 
UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON
Corporate Social Responsibility Report7
GRIND2ENERGY ™  TURNING FOOD WASTE INTO RENEWABLE ENERGY  
Food waste represents the single largest source of landfill waste and a 
significant producer of greenhouse gases. In fact, commercial kitchens produce 
on average more than 4,000 pounds of food waste a week.  Grind2Energy™, 
developed by the engineers at Emerson’s InSinkErator® business, helps large 
food waste generators such as supermarkets, hotels, casinos, and sports arenas 
to minimize their environmental impact and boost their operational efficiency. 
The system uses industrial-strength InSinkErator food waste grinders to process 
food scraps into a liquid “slurry” that is pumped into on-site holding tanks 
at business locations. The slurry is then transported to anaerobic digesters, 
which naturally convert it into water, fertilizer and methane that is captured to 
produce renewable energy. In 2016, Grind2Energy  customers diverted 7,400 
tons of food waste from landfills and eliminated greenhouse gases equivalent 
to driving 11.9 million miles.
 > In 2016, Northgate Markets in California introduced Grind2Energy to help 
address food waste across its stores. Renewable energy created from 
the chain’s food scraps has been enough to power 53 homes and heat 78 
homes for a month. The food scraps have also generated 20,394 pounds 
of nutrient-rich fertilizer and have reduced greenhouse gas emissions 
equivalent of driving 234,385 miles.
 > Whole Foods Market is using Grind2Energy at 10 stores in its North 
Atlantic Region to dramatically reduce food waste from these stores 
going to landfills. Grind2Energy was initially installed in 2014 in a Whole 
Foods Market in Andover, Massachusetts. Since then, Emerson has helped 
Whole Foods Market produce more than 220,000 pounds of nutrient-rich 
fertilizers, eliminate greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to more than 
2.5 million automobile miles, and convert enough natural gas to heat 
nearly 850 homes for one month. In 2016 Whole Foods Market designated 
Grind2Energy as the North Atlantic Region’s Green Supplier of the Year.
Results from Cleveland and other Grind2Energy early adopters have 
demonstrated the solution’s ability to reduce landfill waste, generate 
significant energy from renewable resources and reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions into the atmosphere, all at costs equal to or less than composting 
or other environmentally friendly options. 
NEW HEATING TECHNOLOGIES WITH LESS POLLUTION IN CHINA  
Emerson is delivering new technologies for heat pumps that help reduce 
China’s reliance on coal-burning heat plants. An electric -powered air-source 
heat pump can both cool and heat a home. Heat pumps with Emerson’s 
Copeland Scroll Heating technology – which can efficiently operate even 
when temperatures are below freezing – are 20 percent more energy 
efficient than a traditional hot-water system heated using a coal-fired 
boiler. More than 150,000 electric heat pump units using Emerson’s scroll 
compressor technology were installed in China in 2016, each helping to 
reduce China’s carbon footprint while providing modern indoor comfort for Amount of food waste 
customers using Grind2Energy 
diverted from landfills in 2016 
— eliminating greenhouse 
gases equivalent to driving 
11.9 million miles.Stewardship   |   Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
GRIND2ENERGY
Emerson is helping restaurants and  
others in the food service industry to 
adopt similar recycling efforts
7,400 tons  Corporate Social Responsibility Report8
its residents. The expanded use of heat pumps is one of several strategies 
that has contributed to a 4.7 percent reduction in China’s overall coal use 
compared with 2015, marking the third consecutive year that China has 
reduced coal consumption.
HELPING JUNEAU, ALASKA PLAN A RENEWABLE HEATING SYSTEM 
USING SEAWATER  
Emerson’s Vilter business, manufacturer of industrial heat pump systems, is 
working with private investors and local officials in Juneau, Alaska on plans 
to build North America’s first district heating system to use seawater to 
heat homes and businesses. The system will generate no carbon emissions 
because it burns no fossil fuels. The power required for the heat pumps is 
sourced from a nearby hydroelectric facility also owned by the developers 
resulting in zero emissions. 
The plan is to supply heat to buildings in downtown Juneau, which includes 
state-owned buildings, commercial buildings, and even homes. The Juneau 
District Heating system will take in seawater from the Gastineau Channel 
into a district energy plant where a network of heat exchangers and the 
innovative Emerson Seawater Heat Pumps transfer the heat energy from the 
seawater to create high temperature freshwater that is distributed to heat 
the buildings in Juneau. Emerson’s patented system of compressors and high 
temperature heat pumps provide a cost effective and sustainable means to 
provide heat without requiring costly building retrofits or burning of fossil 
fuels. Furthermore, the refrigerant used does not affect the ozone in any way 
and has a zero global warming potential.  
SUPPORTING WASTE-TO-ENERGY PLANTS TO ENSURE EFFICIENT, 
RELIABLE POWER GENERATION
 > Poland. In 2016, Emerson provided its Ovation™ automation technologies 
and services to ensure the successful startup of a waste-to-energy plant 
in Bydgoszcz, Poland. The new plant enables the region to dispose 
of waste effectively and helps Poland meet its obligations under the 
European Union’s 2020 climate and energy directive. The municipal 
waste incineration facility, operated by Miedzygminny Kompleks 
Unieskkodliwiania Opdadow (MKUO) ProNatura, will generate 100,000 
megawatts-hours of electricity per year, which is enough to power 50,000 
homes from 180,000 metric tons of household waste.
 > United Kingdom. Emerson is providing its control systems and project 
services for a new waste-to-energy power plant near Knaresborough 
Allerton, North Yorkshire, UK. The plant, which will also incorporate biogas 
and recycling facilities, will produce 28 megawatt-hours of electricity per 
hour from 320,000 tons of waste, exporting enough energy to the National 
Grid to power the equivalent of 40,000 homes and further help the UK 
to meet the EU Energy Directive 2020 targets for renewable energy. The 
facility will also divert more than seven million metric tons of waste from 
landfills over its 25-year lifetime, and recover more than one-and-a-half Stewardship   |   Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
“Carbon Clean 200”  
EMERSON RANKED SIXTH IN THE 
INAUGURAL CARBON CLEAN 200 
RANKINGS (AUGUST 15, 2016), 
WHICH RANKS THE LARGEST 
PUBLICLY LISTED COMPANIES BY 
THEIR CLEAN ENERGY REVENUESCorporate Social Responsibility Report9
million tons of recyclable materials. The plant will be operated by Amey on 
behalf of North Yorkshire County Council and the City of York Council. 
 >Switzerland. Similarly, Emerson is providing process automation 
technologies and services for current and future waste-to-energy projects 
of Hitachi Zosen Inova. Zurich-based Hitachi Zosen Inova specializes in 
thermal and biological treatment of municipal waste, and with experience 
on more than 600 projects worldwide, is a leader in the generation 
of energy using waste as fuel. Under a global framework agreement 
announced in 2016, Emerson was selected by Hitachi Zosen Inova as 
a preferred supplier of automation technologies, including control 
and safety systems, predictive maintenance software, control valves 
and measurement devices, and services such as engineering, project 
management, and lifecycle care. The agreement formalizes the relationship 
between the two companies following a successful project at Perlen, near 
Lucerne, Switzerland. The US$319 million (CHF 320 million) Perlen project 
is the largest climate protection project in central Switzerland. The facility 
is set to produce 155,000 MWh of electricity per year, covering the energy 
requirements of nearly 38,000 households, and will supply 320,000 MWh of 
steam to an adjacent paper mill.
EMERSON ADDS THERMAL ENERGY HARVESTING TO  
WIRELESS PRODUCTS  
In 2016, Emerson announced it would adopt advanced thermal energy 
harvesting as a power source for its wireless products. Power Puck® 
thermoelectric energy harvesters, made by Perpetua, convert ambient 
heat commonly released in industrial processes into electricity for 
powering Rosemount™ wireless transmitters. The Power Puck energy 
harvesting solution is especially advantageous to wireless devices in 
power intensive applications, where a conventional power module may 
require replacements more frequently. Power Puck thermoelectric energy 
harvesters provide continuous, reliable power for the life of the transmitter 
and include an intrinsically safe power module for back-up power. Power 
Puck is a convenient, sustainable energy harvesting solution which can 
be incorporated into a variety of applications, enabling users to decrease 
maintenance costs.
DESIGNING COMMERCIAL REFRIGERATION COMPRESSORS TO 
MEET NEW EPA COMPLIANCE STANDARDS  
With the commercial refrigeration industry taking a closer look at natural and 
alternative refrigerant options in the wake of the Significant New Alternatives 
Policy (SNAP) program set forth by the Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA), Emerson has updated its Copeland compressor lines to meet these 
new compliance standards. The refrigeration industry is taking an even closer 
look at both CO2 (R-744) and propane (R-290); each has extremely low global 
warming potential. In one back-to-back R-290 performance test, Emerson 
saw an efficiency improvement of approximately 10 percent. Stewardship   |   Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
POWER PUCK®
Power Puck® thermoelectric energy 
harvesters convert ambient heat 
commonly released in industrial 
processes into electricity for powering 
Rosemount™ wireless transmitters.Corporate Social Responsibility Report10
Managing Our Facilities
ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES FOR EMERSON’S OPERATIONS   
Each of our manufacturing facilities around the world follows a set of 
principles  that guides our commitment to environmental stewardship in 
everything that we do.   
Highlights of these principles include:
 > We comply with all applicable laws and regulations, but also seek to 
reduce and, where possible, eliminate hazardous waste through source 
reduction and recycling. 
 > We continually work to minimize environmental impact through safe 
technologies, facility design and operating procedures. 
 > We conserve energy and work to improve the efficiency of the products 
we manufacture and of our own operations.
 > We conduct regular training to ensure knowledge of updated laws and 
regulations, pollution-prevention and waste-minimization practices, and 
technological developments.
 > We periodically audit our operations to confirm compliance with these 
principles and local laws.
Emerson’s business unit presidents are responsible for implementing 
these principles, with support from our Corporate Environmental 
Affairs Department. Our General Counsel is responsible for overseeing 
implementation of the Company’s environmental principles and policy, and 
periodically reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE   
We assess the environmental compliance of Emerson facilities annually in most 
cases, with 85 percent of manufacturing facilities assessed with compliance 
audit or self-assessment in 2016. In this process, we analyze the procedures and 
performance of our facilities against standards set by local law or Emerson’s 
standards – whichever sets a higher standard. Furthermore, when acquiring 
companies, we assess their environmental policies and procedures to correct 
any issues.
Emerson also considers the environmental aspects of how we design, 
engineer and manufacture products, ensuring that materials and processes 
are safe and adhere to industry standards and government regulations such 
as WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment regulation) and RoHS 
(Restriction of Hazardous Substances) directives.Stewardship   |   Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report11
MINIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT THROUGH  
FACILITY DESIGN AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
Emerson designs and builds many of its new facilities following Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design, or LEED, certified standards, incorporating 
sustainable design principles, technologies, and best practices. It is another 
way Emerson uses innovative approaches to reduce the impact of its 
operations on environmental resources.  
In spring 2017, Emerson announced plans to build a new headquarters for its 
InSinkErator business in Wisconsin.  The new headquarters and lab building, 
which has been designed to qualify for LEED certification, is expected to open 
in July 2018.  
Beyond these certifications, other Emerson facilities are making meaningful 
strides to reduce environmental impact, which in 2016 included the following: 
 > Emerson’s facility in Chengdu, China, took action to save water by 
encouraging staff through signs and slogans, and improved maintenance 
practices, decreasing water consumption at the facility by 5 percent, saving 
444,063 gallons per year. 
 > Emerson’s Ridge Tool Europe business moved to a new office and 
warehouse location in Sint-Truiden, Belgium. They have incorporated LED 
lighting, storm water recovery, solar panels, automatic sun screens, and 
waste recycling and separation systems.
ENERGY CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY  
Emerson has continually implemented energy efficiency measures at its 
facilities, conducted energy audits and sought out new opportunities to 
reduce the impact of its operations on the environment.  In 2016 these 
conservation and efficiency activities included the following:  
 > Emerson’s Rosemount facility in Slough, United Kingdom introduced a 
series of internal and external LED lighting upgrades to reduce energy use 
and improve the quality of lighting within the facility. This initiative resulted 
in energy savings of 249,011 kWh/year and $32,088 in cost savings. The 
upgrades also reduced heat transfer from incandescent lights in production 
areas, which previously required additional cooling in the summer months.
 > In India, our Chennai facility has focused on multiple energy-saving 
projects, implementing programs to adjust lighting and temperature 
of the facility to better match production needs at given times of the 
day. These efforts resulted in energy savings of 6,400 kWh/month, from 
September 2016 to March 2017. 
MATERIALS USAGE
As a broadly diversified company with a wide variety of products, we 
purchase through our supply chain a wide variety of raw materials and 
component parts. Copper and steel are the most widely used raw materials Stewardship   |   Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
LEED Certified  
Helix Center - 2016  
DAYTON, OHIO (USA)
LEED Silver
Emerson Scroll Machining Building - 2013  
AVA, MISSOURI (USA) 
ASCO Fluid Automation Global 
Headquarters - 2017  
FLORHAM PARK, NEW JERSEY (USA)
Emerson Campus - 2013  
SOROCABA (BRAZIL)
Emerson Latin American 
Headquarters - 2009  
SUNRISE, FLORIDA (USA)
 
 
LEED Gold
Corporate Data Center - 2010  
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI (USA)
Emerson India Headquarters - 2013  
GURGAON (INDIA)Emerson facilities with  
green building certifications Corporate Social Responsibility Report12
across our businesses. In fiscal 2016, our businesses used approximately 
18,000 tons of copper and 251,000 tons of steel, not including copper and 
steel contained in finished components, of which approximately 72 percent 
and 47 percent, respectively, were recycled materials.
REGULAR ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING
Emerson conducts regular environmental training programs for its plant 
environmental managers, business unit environmental coordinators and 
other key personnel worldwide. Each session takes into account the specific 
needs of the regions in which our global facilities are located.
Each year, employees receive online or face-to-face environmental training with 
two primary goals:
 > Give employees a practical understanding of the requirements of 
environmental laws and regulations as they apply to the company.
 >Share ideas on how to reduce waste, enhance the quality of the 
environment, and conserve energy.
The training conferences cover a broad range of topics, including:
 > Emerson’s environmental principles.
 > Good environmental management practices.
 > Country-specific environmental laws and regulations.
 > New developments in local environmental laws.
 > Pollution prevention, waste minimization and energy conservation. 
 >Specialty topics like hazardous material transportation, spills and incident 
response, and recycling technologies.
AUDITS TO CONFIRM COMPLIANCE  
Emerson requires that every one of its manufacturing facilities receives a 
third-party environmental compliance audit every five years, in which auditors 
conduct detailed inspections of the facility and its environmental records. The 
purpose of these audits is to evaluate environmental regulatory compliance, 
as well as the overall environmental management practices of each plant.  The 
audit process also encourages plant environmental managers to look beyond 
basic compliance to explore ways to implement innovative and productive 
environmental management practices.
Prior to an on-site inspection by an outside environmental consultant, each 
plant is required to complete a detailed questionnaire provided by the 
Corporate Environmental Affairs Department.  Once the formal audit is 
completed and the outside auditor submits a written report, Environmental 
Affairs works with the business unit president and facility personnel to ensure 
that all audit findings are addressed.
About 10 percent of Emerson’s audits are surprise audits, where facility managers 
receive only 48 hours’ notice of the third-party audit team’s schedule.Stewardship   |   Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
Emerson requires 
that every one of 
its manufacturing 
facilities receives 
a third-party 
environmental 
compliance audit 
every five years.Corporate Social Responsibility Report13Stewardship   |   Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
In years in which plants do not have a third-party compliance audit, business 
unit environmental coordinators work with plant management to complete 
a self-assessment to ensure compliance with environmental regulations. 
Corporate environmental staff oversees this annual process.
FINES AND SANCTIONS  
Emerson facilities are routinely inspected by environmental authorities in the 
jurisdictions where we operate.  It is Emerson policy to cooperate fully with 
environmental authorities.  The majority of all inspections by authorities do not 
result in monetary fines, penalties, or citations.  When environmental fines or 
penalties have been imposed, the costs have been minimal in comparison to 
the size of our operations.  
For example, in 2016 environmental regulators inspected our facilities or were 
notified of incidents on 37 different occasions worldwide (compared to 44 
occasions in 2015).  Of these occasions in 2016, only three resulted in monetary 
penalties totaling $2,990 (compared to five in 2015). The average annual cost 
of environmental fines and penalties incurred globally by Emerson from 2012 
through 2016 was approximately $23,000. 
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS  
In addition to Emerson’s global Ethics and Compliance Hotline , each of our 
business units has its own formal and informal channels to raise concerns or 
complaints about environmental compliance. We also periodically receive 
concerns regarding environmental issues from the people and businesses 
neighboring our facilities. Issues raised via these channels are rare and are 
appropriately addressed.$50,392
$13,486
$2,990$41,977
$6,046
2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   
AVERAGE ANNUAL COST OF 
ENVIRONMENTAL FINES AND 
PENALTIESCorporate Social Responsibility Report14
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
All GHG emissions are measured in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO2e).  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
Greenhouse Gas, Water, and Energy Use
Emerson tracks its impact on the environment in a number of ways, including measuring emissions into the atmosphere, water 
consumption, and energy use associated with our manufacturing operations. Emerson has voluntarily disclosed this data as a 
participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2006.
Compared to 2015, Emerson experienced a 2.8 percent increase in global CO2 emissions, a 10.5 percent reduction in global water 
consumption, and a 1.9 percent increase in global energy use. We attribute these results to several factors, including an increase 
in the number of reporting manufacturing facilities, new production facilities going online across our businesses, and increases in 
production to meet the needs of our customers.  
Scope  1 - Direct GHG Emissions
Includes the combustion of fossil fuels [e.g. natural gas, fuel 
oil, propane, etc.] for comfort heating or other industrial 
applications at Emerson manufacturing facilities.
Water Consumption
Emerson’s worldwide water usage (in gallons):Energy Use
Emerson’s worldwide electricity usage (in megawatt-hours):Scope  2 - Indirect GHG Emissions
Includes the consumption of purchased electricity, steam, 
or other sources of energy [e.g. chilled water] generated 
upstream from Emerson manufacturing facilities.
208,952   
2014   170,617
2015   175,499
2016   
Measured in MT CO2e emissions761,996   
2014   583,644
2015   604,155
2016   
Measured in MT CO2e emissions
Notes:  All data is for the calendar year indicated and is based on the Emerson business portfolio during that year. During 2014, 2015 and most of 2016, the 
company was comprised of five business segments: Process Management, Industrial Automation, Network Power, Climate Technologies, and Commercial 
& Residential Solutions. Emerson completed the sales of the Network Power business in December 2016 and Leroy-Somer and Control Techniques of its 
Industrial Automation segment in January 2017. Global sales (including the discontinued businesses) were $24.5 billion in fiscal 2014, $22.3 billion in fiscal 
2015, and $20.2 billion in fiscal 2016.1,189,500,885 1,200.05 
1,064,084,816 1,222.6 1,402,947,620 1,431.38 2014   2014   
2015   2015   
2016   2016   Corporate Social Responsibility Report15
Integrity & Ethics
Our company’s leadership team is required to communicate and reinforce 
our commitment to compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, 
proper handling of proprietary data and information, and accurate financial 
reporting. Employees are urged to communicate questions or concerns 
about compliance in whatever way they feel comfortable, including our 
global whistleblowing system operated by an independent third party. 
The Emerson Board of Directors, in conjunction with a senior management 
committee, oversees the program and has final responsibility for its success. 
Senior management and the Board of Directors regularly review and update 
the program to consider if updates are necessary or appropriate. 
Policies and documents that support Emerson’s Business Ethics Program include:
CEO AND SENIOR FINANCIAL OFFICER CODE OF ETHICS 
The Emerson Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers Code of Ethics  
conveys the roles, responsibilities, and expectations for top corporate 
officers in exhibiting and promoting integrity and in providing accurate 
and timely financial reporting.
ETHICS PROGRAM HANDBOOK FOR ALL EMPLOYEES 
Emerson’s Business Ethics Program Handbook  sets forth the detailed 
elements of our ethics program. The handbook along with our annual all-
employee ethics and compliance training cover many topics including:Emerson works hard to maintain a culture of ethical conduct and legal compliance. 
Our Ethics and Compliance Program is a set of policies and practices honed over 
the past two decades that define ethical conduct for every Emerson employee in 
interactions with each other, customers, communities, and other stakeholders.  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report16
 >The company’s commitment to conducting business with honesty, 
integrity, and in compliance with laws and regulations.
 > Our standards for all dealings with customers, suppliers, 
governments, the public, and each other.
 >A stipulation that no employee may have a personal, business or financial 
interest that conflicts with his or her responsibilities to our company.
 >The rules forbidding payments in money, products, gifts, or 
services – either directly or indirectly – to any foreign government 
representative to induce favorable business treatment or to affect 
governmental decisions in violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA) or other U.S. or local country laws.
 >The importance of being alert and sensitive to situations that may 
be illegal, unethical, in violation of the ethics program, or that are 
otherwise improper. 
 >The obligation of employees to report any questionable situations 
or suspicious activity.
A complete refresh and redesign of the Emerson ethics handbook for 
employees will debut in the fall of 2017. The new ethics handbook, like the 
prior version, will be translated to all relevant languages in addition to English. 
The refreshed ethics handbook for employees is being released in parallel with 
the internal rollout of a new company-wide single set of values designed to help 
unify management around a common goal and provide a clear road map for all 
employees on how they are expected to act and behave. The company’s seven 
core values are: Integrity, Safety and Quality, Support Our People, Customer 
Focus, Continuous Improvement, Collaboration, and Innovation.
ANNUAL ETHICS TRAINING  
We reinforce our Ethics and Compliance Program with annual all-employee 
training to ensure that every employee is aware of and following the 
requirements of the program. This commitment to training also helps to 
ensure that every employee is aware of the latest important updates to our 
governance principles and practices.
These annual training sessions are generally done face-to-face with various 
levels of management conducting the training, which encourages dialogue 
that helps Emerson leaders to identify and address emerging questions or 
issues and demonstrates Emerson’s culture of compliance. We also use the 
interaction to ensure that every employee understands how to report any 
ethical concern without apprehension or fear of retaliation. We conduct 
surveys to measure employees’ understanding of the program. These 
surveys show a high level of understanding of our Ethics and Compliance 
Program by our employees throughout the world.
  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
We reinforce our Ethics 
and Compliance Program 
with annual all-employee 
training to ensure that every 
employee is aware of and 
following the requirements 
of the program.Corporate Social Responsibility Report17
ETHICS HOTLINE AND COMMUNICATION  
To facilitate the communication of ethical concerns or questions, we 
provide email and phone access to an Ethics and Compliance Hotline  for our 
employees globally. Reports to the hotline may be filed anonymously, and we 
tolerate no form of reprisal against employees for reporting concerns. 
Ethics Hotline emails or calls are received by an independent company, which 
reports the information to a limited number of experienced and specialized 
Emerson management personnel for investigation and response. The 
program is audited by internal and external auditors each year and is revised 
regularly to improve the program. The chairperson of the Audit Committee 
of the Board of Directors directly receives finance-related hotline reports from 
the independent hotline provider, and the Committee reviews serious ethics 
and compliance allegations, and receives a report on the resolution of any 
such allegations.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST EVALUATION AND REPORTING  
Emerson conducts an annual reporting process to determine whether any 
potential conflicts of interest exist between the company and any of its 
Directors, officers or employees. Each year, a questionnaire is administered 
to all employees in a position to influence and/or receive personal gain at 
the company’s expense. The questionnaires are available in 21 languages 
and approximately 39,000 Directors, officers and employees responded.  
All newly reported responses indicating a potential conflict of interest issue 
are reported to the Ethics Committee.  All such responses are investigated 
and resolved. The Board of Directors’ Governance and Nominating 
Committee provides oversight for Emerson’s conflict of interest policies 
and receives a report annually on the results of the Conflict of Interest 
Evaluation process.
ANTI-CORRUPTION CONTROLS  
Emerson articulates its anti-corruption internal control requirements in 
an Internal Control Questionnaire (“ICQ”). All business units are required 
to complete the ICQ and to certify on a quarterly basis that their ICQ 
is accurate and that the business unit has implemented the required 
internal controls. Emerson audits approximately 50 locations per year to 
ensure appropriate anti-corruption internal controls are in place. Emerson 
utilizes a risk assessment model to identify audit targets and all locations 
that operate in high-risk countries and industries are audited at least once 
every three years.  Emerson also operates an anonymous hotline that 
employees can use to escalate potential corruption issues, and all hotline 
allegations are thoroughly investigated.
Emerson includes anti-corruption information in its annual ethics 
training, which is received by all employees worldwide. The training is 
modified each year in response to risks identified during the previous 
year’s audits. Emerson also requires all employees with contact with 
customers, government officials, third party intermediaries, and suppliers 
  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
Reports to the hotline may 
be filed anonymously, and 
we tolerate no form of 
reprisal against employees 
for reporting concerns.Corporate Social Responsibility Report18
to complete an online anti-corruption training program once every three 
years. Additional face-to-face and webcast training also is available. 
Political Contributions   
Emerson participates in the U.S. political process through our federal political 
action committee (PAC), the “Emerson PAC”, our “Missouri PAC”, the Emerson 
Missouri Responsible Government Fund, and occasionally and as permitted by 
law, direct Company contributions. Emerson and the Emerson political action 
committees (PAC) are non-partisan.
All contributions from either the PACs or from our Company are made solely 
on the basis of issues of importance to our company, our employees and 
our shareholders.   Contributions are made to  support pro-manufacturing, 
pro-business and pro-economic growth policies, and specifically include 
trade, taxes, energy, healthcare, environment and legal liability, to name 
but a few.  In making contribution decisions, both the Company and the 
PAC boards consider the views, quality and effectiveness of the candidate, 
organization or cause, and whether the candidate or cause is likely to 
succeed. They also review organizations and individuals associated with 
proposed recipients to determine whether the positions taken by those 
organizations or individuals could be inconsistent with Emerson’s interests. 
As part of its oversight role for Company political activities, the Board of 
Directors’ Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee oversees policies 
and practices related to the company’s political spending. The committee 
approves an annual contribution limit on expenditures to support state and 
local political candidates, as well as those for campaigns, ballot issues and 
bonds. The total annual contribution limit is $1,000,000.  The Committee 
receives a report annually on all of the Company’s political spending.
All Company political expenditures are initially reviewed by Emerson’s 
government affairs office in Washington, D.C. Proposed contributions 
are then reviewed by the office of the General Counsel to assure legal 
compliance. Final authorization is required from the Chief Executive Officer. 
The Company provides no direct support to federal candidates, because 
U.S. law prohibits companies from contributing to candidates for federal 
office.  However, in states where corporate contributions are permitted by 
law, Emerson may make contributions to state and local candidates, political 
organizations and ballot issues of importance to our company or may make 
such contributions from the Missouri PAC. Any contributions to candidates 
or ballot issues from the Company are subject to reporting by the recipient 
candidate or ballot issue committees, pursuant to the laws of the state or 
locality where the committee is formed.  For fiscal 2016, Emerson contributed 
a total of $99,000 to state and local political candidates, and federal, state, and 
local campaigns and ballot and bond issues, including $89,000 contributed 
to the Missouri PAC. The recipients and amounts of those contributions are 
detailed in our Political Contributions Report.  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report19
PAC CONTRIBUTIONS  
The Emerson PAC supports federal candidates and committees, as well as other 
candidates and party organizations where permitted by law, through voluntary, 
after-tax contributions by Emerson employees and retirees who choose to pool 
their resources in the Emerson PAC to support candidates who share the values 
and goals of the Company.
The Federal Election Commission (FEC) regulates activities of the Emerson 
PAC. All current and prior election cycle contributions to and from the 
Emerson PAC are reported to the FEC and are available on its website by 
searching for “Emerson”.  Contributions to the Emerson PAC in calendar 
year 2016 totaled approximately $240,000 and disbursements totaled 
approximately $225,000.  Emerson PAC expenditures are provided in our 
LD-203 reports described below. 
The Missouri PAC is supported by Company contributions to support candidates 
in Missouri, as well as party organizations where permitted by law.  In fiscal 2016, 
Emerson contributed $89,000 to its Missouri PAC. A list of contributions by the 
Emerson Missouri Responsible Government Fund is available on the Missouri 
Ethics Commission website by entering “Emerson” for the committee name.  The 
Missouri PAC made $115,500 in total contributions during fiscal 2016.
Contributions by the Missouri PAC during fiscal 2016 in excess of $5,000 were 
as follows:
 > Missouri Republican Party - $25,000
 > Koster for Missouri - $25,000
 > Greitens for Missouri - $25,000
 > Friends of Todd Richardson - $8,500
Further information about Emerson’s policies and procedures for political 
spending as well as Missouri Ethics Commission reports for the last 18 months 
can be found on the Political Contributions page  of the Emerson website.
The Emerson Washington, DC office generates a list of candidates these PACs 
can support based on the PAC giving criteria, requests from third parties and 
suggestions from PAC members. Outside legal counsel then conducts a review 
of proposed disbursements. Separate boards made up of Emerson employees 
set overall contribution budgets and approve all contributions by each PAC. 
The PAC boards retain counsel to ensure compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. Each PAC undergoes an independent annual audit and legal review.
Trade Associations and Lobbying  
Emerson’s shareholders, employees, and customers are keenly affected by 
public policies at all levels of government.  To protect shareholder value, Emerson 
maintains a small office in Washington, D.C. to engage with public officials at all 
levels of government to educate them on our company’s operations, emerging 
technologies and markets.  This office also follows and, when necessary, seeks to 
influence public policy decisions that impact the company and its shareholders.   Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
Emerson has established two 
PACs: a federal PAC called 
the Emerson PAC and a state 
PAC called the Emerson 
Missouri Responsible 
Government Fund. Corporate Social Responsibility Report20  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
These activities are governed and regulated by federal and state laws.  With 
the help of knowledgeable employees throughout the company, Emerson’s 
government affairs team identifies and follows issues of importance to 
Emerson’s continued well-being.  When those issues lend themselves to 
public policy solutions at the federal level, Emerson’s government affairs 
team sometimes reaches out to policymakers on Capitol Hill and in the 
Executive Branch to raise awareness and educate them as to potential 
effects of policies under consideration.  Under federal law, that process is 
considered “direct lobbying.”  Sometimes, rather than reaching out directly 
to policymakers, Emerson engages with policymakers on issues through 
one or more trade associations to which Emerson belongs and who share 
our concerns and interests.  That is considered “indirect lobbying.”  Emerson 
engages in both direct and indirect lobbying.  Emerson does not engage in 
“grassroots” lobbying. All decisions about which government policies Emerson 
seeks to shape are based upon what is in the best interests of our industry, 
our company, our employees and, most importantly, our shareholders.
Emerson’s federal lobbying activity is reported in our Lobbying Disclosure Act 
filings, which are publicly available at two websites:
 > US House of Representatives 
 > US Senate
Emerson’s LD-2 and LD-203 Lobbying Reports for the last 18 months are 
available on the Trade Associations and Lobbying page of the Emerson 
website.  During calendar year 2016, Emerson’s LD-2 Lobbying Reports 
reported $580,000 in expenses related to lobbying activities, which 
includes all lobbying-related expenses of our Washington D.C. office and 
personnel.  Emerson’s LD-203 Lobbying Contribution Reports for calendar 
year 2016 reported expenditures of approximately $225,000, all made 
through the Emerson PAC.
Contributions in excess of $5,000 to individual recipients were as follows:
 > Devin Nunes (CA22) $10,000 – Ways and Means Committee 
 > Donald Bacon (NE2) $10,000 – pro-business challenger to incumbent
 > Erik Paulsen (MN-3) $10,000 – Ways and Means Committee; significant 
Emerson operations in District
 > George Holding (NC2) $10,000 – Ways and Means Committee
 > Jason Smith (MO8) $25,000 – Ways and Means Committee; Emerson 
headquartered in Missouri
 > Kyrsten Sinema (AZ9) $7,500 – Strong pro-business record
 > Patrick Tiberi (OH12) $10,000 – Ways and Means Committee; Chairman 
Joint Economic Committee
 > Paul Ryan (WI1) $10,000 – Speaker of the House; Emerson operations in 
Wisconsin
 >Thomas Emmer (R-MN6) $10,000 – Emerson operations in MinnesotaCorporate Social Responsibility Report21
Corporate  
Governance
Board of Directors  
Emerson’s Board of Directors is elected by stockholders to provide 
oversight and strategic guidance to senior management. The core 
responsibility of the Board is to exercise its fiduciary duty to act diligently 
and in the best interests of all the Company’s stockholders, not to any 
special constituency of stockholders, and other corporate constituencies. 
The Board selects and oversees the members of senior management, 
to whom the Board delegates the authority and responsibility for the 
conduct of the day-to-day operations of the business.  The Board of 
Directors provides guidance and oversight regarding the management of 
the Company and is responsible for establishing all significant Company 
policies, overseeing compliance with those policies and approving all 
significant Company transactions.     
BOARD OF DIRECTORS POLICIES  
Emerson’s principles and practices are driven by its Board of Directors , 
which ensures that they are shaped by highly independent, diverse 
viewpoints, and deep management expertise. Our Board’s composition 
and operation is guided by Emerson’s Corporate Governance Principles and 
Practices , which include the following guidelines:
 > Independence.  The majority of Board members must remain independent, 
and this independence is confirmed at least annually. Emerson’s Board 
currently includes nine independent members and just one inside Director, 
Emerson’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David N. Farr. Our Director 
Independence Standards are contained in Annex II to our Corporate 
Governance Principles and Practices .    Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report22  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
 > Composition.  Board members must bring senior management business 
experience or experience in government or other relevant organizations. 
We seek a diversity of viewpoints on our Board that helps us to understand 
and anticipate changes in our business environment, as well as ethnic and 
gender diversity. We currently have two female Board members appointed 
in 2014 and 2017, respectively.
 > Committees.  To provide sustained, specialized and in-depth oversight 
in certain areas, Emerson’s Board of Directors has established five 
committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and 
Nominating, Executive, and Finance. All committees except for the 
Executive Committee are comprised entirely of independent Board 
members. More information about our Board Committees and their 
charters is available in the Corporate Governance section of Emerson.com.
 > Leadership.  Our Board chairman is CEO David N. Farr. The Board believes 
that it should have the flexibility to make the determination of whether 
the same person should serve as both the Chief Executive Officer and 
Chairman of the Board at any given point in time, or if the roles should be 
separate. The Board believes that its current leadership structure, with Mr. 
Farr serving as both Chief Executive Officer and as Chairman of the Board, 
as well as Chair of our Executive Committee, is appropriate given Mr. Farr’s 
past success and extensive experience serving in these roles, the efficiencies 
of having the Chief Executive Officer also serve in the role of Chairman, the 
Company’s strong corporate governance structure, including the newly 
adopted Lead Independent Director position, and the Company’s financial 
performance under Mr. Farr’s leadership.
The Board also has a Lead Independent Director who serves for a three-year 
term and serves as the key liaison between the Chairman and the rest of 
the Board.  The duties of the Lead Independent Director include presiding 
at Board meetings at which the Chairman is absent, including executive 
sessions of independent or non-management Directors, reviewing and 
consulting with the Chairman regarding meeting agendas and schedules 
and information to be sent to the Board, calling meetings of independent 
or non-management Directors, consulting with major shareholders, and 
serving on the executive committee. The Company publishes in its annual 
proxy statement the manner in which shareholders can communicate with 
any Director, including the Lead Independent Director.
 > Non-Management Director Meetings.   The Company’s non-management 
Directors periodically schedule and hold executive sessions in which 
management does not participate. The Lead Independent Director and 
the other non-management Directors determine the length, topics of 
discussion and procedures for these meetings. If, in any year, one or more of 
the non-management Directors is not independent, the independent, non-
management Directors shall hold at least one executive session in which 
only such independent, non-management Directors participate.Corporate Social Responsibility Report23
Recent Corporate Governance Actions  
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee periodically reviews 
the Company’s governance principles and practices in light of feedback from 
stockholders, industry trends, and the risks and opportunities facing the Company.  
When the Committee determines any such changes are necessary it recommends 
the changes to the full Board to approve any required policy amendments. 
As a result of this review, the Company has recently taken the following 
corporate governance actions:
 > Created a Lead Independent Director position in October 2016 and 
appointed Randall Stephenson as Lead Independent Director.
 >Adopted an amendment to the Company’s Bylaws to provide stockholders 
with a proxy access right which, subject to certain limitations, permits a 
holder (or a group of not more than 20 holders) of at least 3 percent of 
the Company’s outstanding common stock to nominate and include in 
the Company’s proxy materials director nominees constituting up to 
the greater of two individuals or 20 percent of the Board, provided that 
the nominating holder(s) and the nominee(s) satisfy the requirements 
specified in the Bylaws.
 > Committed to submit to stockholders at the 2018 Annual Meeting 
of Stockholders a proposal to amend the Company’s Articles of 
Incorporation to allow stockholders the right to amend the Company’s 
Bylaws.  
 > Committed to submit to shareholders at the 2018 Annual Meeting of 
Stockholders a non-binding advisory proposal to ratify the exclusive 
forum Bylaw adopted by the Board in August 2016.   
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES  
Emerson’s Board of Directors establishes guidelines for Board operations and 
ethical conduct via its Statement of Governance Principles and Practices. This 
statement outlines how Emerson must govern for full compliance with the 
law and in the best interests of our constituencies. It includes comprehensive 
rules and criteria for Board roles and responsibilities, from management 
oversight and performance reporting to director independence standards. 
Refer to our Statement of Corporate Governance Principles and Practices  for 
further information.  
RISK MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT  
The Board as a whole has responsibility for the oversight of Emerson’s risk 
management process. This process is designed to provide to the Board 
timely visibility into the identification, assessment and management of 
critical risks. The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility 
for risk assessment and risk management, including major financial risk 
exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor, mitigate and 
control such exposures, as well as oversight of the Company’s environmental   Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
The Corporate Governance 
Committee is responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s 
conflict of interest policies, 
codes of ethics, political 
activities, and compliance 
with laws and regulations, 
including oversight of 
the Company’s political 
spending activities.Corporate Social Responsibility Report24  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
activities, audits, and expenditures.  The Corporate Governance Committee 
is responsible for overseeing the Company’s conflict of interest policies, 
codes of ethics, political activities, and compliance with laws and regulations, 
including oversight of the Company’s political spending activities.  The 
formal, annual risk assessment process includes surveys of all business unit 
Presidents and interviews with all business leaders, corporate functional 
leaders and members of the Office of the Chief Executive. For each risk, the 
magnitude and probability of the risk occurring are determined.  In addition, 
the employee responsible for mitigating the risk and the mitigation plan and 
timeline are documented.
The full Board, or the appropriate Committee, receives this risk assessment 
information annually to enable it to understand and monitor the Emerson’s 
risk management process. Information brought to the attention of the 
Committees is shared with the full Board as appropriate.  Ongoing risk 
assessments in various areas are also conducted as part of Emerson’s normal 
management process and the results of those assessments are shared with 
the Board or relevant Committee as needed throughout the year. This 
could include potential issues such as ethics or human rights violations, 
environmental risks, etc.
BOARD EVALUATION PROCESS
The Board of Directors and each Committee thereof conducts an annual 
self-evaluation process to determine whether the Board and its Committees 
are effectively performing the responsibilities required of them. Each Director 
completes an evaluation survey regarding the full Board and each Committee 
on which the Director serves. This survey includes numerical evaluations of 
performance as well as an opportunity for the Directors to make narrative 
comments regarding the performance of the Board, each Committee and 
individual Directors. The survey results are reviewed by the Corporate 
Governance and Nominating Committee and the results are communicated to 
the full Board, with an emphasis on areas where the surveys indicate areas where 
Board practice could be modified or improved. The results of the Committee 
surveys are shared with the Chair and members of each Committee to be 
discussed at each Committee’s next regularly scheduled meeting.Corporate Social Responsibility Report25
People  
& Workplace
Living our core values means Emerson expects nothing less than top 
performance from our employees, and employees expect a destination-of-
choice workplace from Emerson. Our employee management process has 
always centered on open and honest communication. This philosophy guides 
our broad efforts to create a global workforce that encourages diversity and 
embraces inclusion while promoting workplace safety and fair labor practices. 
We continually look to break new ground in these areas to help Emerson 
maintain its status as an employer of choice, which in turn drives innovation 
and delivers excellence for our customers.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
We are committed to equal opportunity in all phases of employment. Our 
company prohibits discrimination against or harassment of any employee or 
applicant on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, age, disability, national origin, veteran status, political affiliation, 
union membership, or any other factor deemed unlawful. 
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION      
Emerson is committed to creating a global workplace that encourages 
diversity and embraces inclusion.   We believe that bringing together bright, 
enthusiastic, and talented people from a variety of backgrounds and cultures 
promotes the birth of new ideas and an exciting energy level. At Emerson, the success of our company is fueled by the knowledge, skills, 
integrity, and engagement of our employees. As a company, we seek to create a 
culture and workplace environment to support our people so they can reach their 
greatest potential. Our core values – integrity, safety and quality, support our 
people, customer focus, continuous improvement, collaboration, and innovation – 
are fundamental to the way we conduct our business and achieve success.  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report26
We are committed to increasing the diversity and inclusion of our workforce by 
seeking to attract, develop and retain more women and minorities as part of 
our overall workforce and at all levels of our management team. We are actively 
working to create an employer of choice environment within our industry in 
terms of promotions, transfers, compensation, benefits, career mentoring, 
company-sponsored training, tuition assistance, and social and recreational 
programs for our employees.
At the direction of Chairman and CEO David Farr, the company established the 
Emerson Diversity Council in 2013. This group, comprises senior leaders from 
Emerson corporate and our business platforms, helps set direction and provides 
oversight and guidance on diversity and inclusion initiatives. The Council’s 
mission is to attract, develop, and retain the best talent around the world.
In 2016, the Emerson Diversity Council undertook several strategic initiatives to 
support the company’s diversity and inclusion commitment, including :
 > Initiated research and sharing of best practices on diversity and inclusion. This 
included sharing best practices across Emerson businesses, as well as hosting 
an information-sharing session with human resource executives from a group 
of peer companies to hear about their best practices and key learnings.
 > Identified diversity training on unconscious bias as a priority. This led to 
engagement with an outside consultant to help the company develop an 
appropriate training curriculum. Roll-out of the training began in 2016, 
with over 200 Emerson leaders and employees from across the company 
participating. This training is being continued and greatly expanded in 2017.
 >Supported the Employee Resources Group (ERG) known as Emerson 
Women in STEM and conducted research and internal discussions on how 
the company should support ERGs in general.
 >Strengthened our commitment to outreach and recruitment of minority 
MBA degree recipients through Emerson lead sponsorship of the 
Consortium for Graduate Study in Management’s  50th anniversary 
annual conference in St. Louis, our global headquarters city.
In 2017, Emerson Chairman and CEO David Farr pledged the company’s 
support for the “ CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion ” initiative to work with 
other U.S. companies, large and small, to advance diversity and inclusion 
within the workplace.
WOMEN 
We offer networking and learning opportunities through Employee Resource 
Groups, such as our Women in STEM organization which is an outgrowth of 
the Emerson Diversity Council’s support for the formation of an ERG devoted 
to this important issue in 2013.  Emerson Women in STEM had more than 
590 employee members globally and held 24 regional events in the United 
States in 2016. The group is focused on attracting, developing and retaining 
the best women engineers, scientists and technologists to enhance the 
diversity of ideas and approaches that drive business growth for Emerson. Emerson’s U.S. workforce ages 
(2016):
13%  
UNDER AGE 30
44%  
AGE 30-50
43%  
OVER AGE 50    Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
Emerson’s U.S. workforce 
(2016):
27.9%  
WOMEN
23.5%  
MINORITIES *
3.8%  
PROTECTED  
VETERANS  
3.8%  
PEOPLE WITH  
DISABILITIES
*Includes Asian, American Indian or Alaska Native, 
Black or African-American, Hispanic,  
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific IslanderCorporate Social Responsibility Report27
Emerson Women in STEM organizes and hosts networking opportunities, 
professional development sessions and recognition events for female 
employees, participates in the Society of Women Engineers, promotes 
awareness of women in STEM career opportunities at schools and youth 
groups, and participates in company recruiting activities.  With Emerson’s 
support and encouragement, Emerson Women in STEM began to expand 
to our global organization in 2016, with activities initiated in Europe (UK, 
Germany and Romania), India, China and Costa Rica. 
We are a proud corporate partner of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE) , 
an organization dedicated to the advancement of women engineers. Through 
SWE, we conduct outreach and recruitment of female engineering talent for our 
company in the United States. In addition, in 2016, Emerson participated in the 
first SWE conference to take place in India and hosted a SWE China roundtable 
discussion in our Shanghai offices with invitees from other companies. 
In 2015, 2016, and 2017, Emerson was ranked by Woman Engineer magazine 
in the “Top 50 Employers” in the United States for which women engineers 
would most like to work or whom they believe would provide a positive working 
environment. In 2017, Emerson announced a partnership with Pink Petro, a 
global community and social enterprise aimed at ending the gender gap in the 
energy industry, to support women professionals in energy industry jobs.
MINORITIES        
We actively seek to increase the diversity of our global workforce by 
participating in recruiting events at universities and business schools, and at 
job fairs during professional societies’ annual conferences, to find and engage 
qualified candidates for both entry- and executive-level positions. 
For example, we recruit candidates for our MBA Leadership Program through our 
partnership with the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management , the largest 
diversity network in the United States that seeks to reduce underrepresentation 
of African Americans, Native Americans, and Hispanic Americans in education and 
business by linking corporate partners with top-tier students. In 2016, Emerson 
was the leading corporate sponsor for the Consortium’s annual conference in 
St. Louis. Emerson has been a supporter of their mission for more than 20 years 
as one of the first companies to become a Consortium corporate partner, and 
participation has become a cornerstone of the company’s MBA recruiting program.
U.S. MILITARY VETERANS 
Emerson and its business units actively seek to recruit U.S. military veterans 
to explore job opportunities at our company as they transition to their post-
military careers. We participate in a number of events and partnerships to that 
end. For example, our recruiting team from Emerson Automation Solutions 
in Texas participates in the Service Academy Career Conference, which allows 
us to connect with high potential candidates that have graduated from service 
academies. Our Rosemount Measurement business has a Veterans Outreach 
Committee committed to establishing veteran friendly practices for recruiting, 
onboarding and retention.
  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
Emerson’s U.S. workforce 
trends (2011 to 2016):
+20.4%  
WOMEN IN  
MANAGEMENT POSITIONS
-1.4%  
WOMEN IN ALL POSITIONS
 +36.5%  
MINORITIES *IN  
MANAGEMENT POSITIONS
+19.8%  
MINORITIES *IN ALL POSITIONS: 
Workforce representation data is based on 
consolidated federal EEO-1 and VETS-4212 filing
*Includes Asian, American Indian or Alaska Native, 
Black or African-American, Hispanic,  
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific IslanderCorporate Social Responsibility Report28
Emerson Commercial & Residential Solutions currently participates in the 
Veterans and Employers Connection program managed by the Goodwill 
Easter Seals Miami Valley organization in Dayton, Ohio. This community 
alliance is dedicated to facilitating meaningful, long-term employment of 
veterans in Miami Valley with a goal of local companies hiring 5,000 veterans 
by 2020. In 2015, Emerson received an award for being one of the top 
employers for hiring veterans in the Miami Valley area of Ohio.
UNCONSCIOUS BIAS TRAINING 
With the help of an outside consultant, Emerson has developed a training 
curriculum focused on unconscious bias. Roll-out of the training began in 
2016, with over 200 Emerson leaders and employees from across the company 
participating. This training is being continued and greatly expanded in 2017. 
Unconscious bias training will become a part of the company’s Executive 
Leadership Program curriculum and its e-learning modules for all supervisors.
Promoting Health and Safety    
We strive to create and sustain a safe and healthy work environment for all of 
our employees, focusing our efforts in three critical areas:
 > Implementing global safety and health standards that are based on some 
of the strongest regulations from around the world.
 >Tracking global injury trends from first aid, medical treatment, restricted, 
and lost time injuries.
 > Conducting safety and health audits of our operations around the globe.
The safety and health of all our employees is a core value within our company. We 
expect all levels of management and employees to not only anticipate hazards, 
but also to address them and stop employees if they deem a work environment 
or task to be unsafe. Our safety efforts are led by our Corporate Safety Council 
which meets quarterly. The Council sets expectations, provides oversight, 
and tracks progress of our global safety program in order to drive continuous 
improvements, reinforce our safety culture, and reduce injuries in Emerson’s 
operations. All of our locations with 50 or more employees have a health and 
safety committee operating at the local level, which includes representation 
from members of the work force, to work proactively in addressing health and 
safety concerns.  We conduct safety training for all operational management and 
require each of these locations to have a formal safety program.   
Emerson’s emphasis on safety and health encourages continuous improvement 
in all our processes, including the following:
 > Protective Devices - We continually engineer and apply devices that 
mitigate risk from workplace processes and equipment.  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
The safety and health of all 
our employees is a core value 
within our company.Corporate Social Responsibility Report29  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
 > Ergonomics -  Where processes involve repetitive tasks, we design work 
approaches to minimize the impact on our employees.
 > Preventive Maintenance – With sound maintenance routines and protocols, 
Emerson continually reviews equipment to keep it in top operating shape, 
which reduces the potential for hazards while maximizing productivity. 
 > Security - To assure a well-protected, safe workplace, we consistently manage 
access to our facilities following international guidelines and standards.
With our continuous commitment to employee safety and health, Emerson 
ensures that safety goes hand-in-hand with operating productively, which in turn 
helps Emerson to compete effectively.  Beyond this, many of Emerson’s products 
and services, including automation, monitoring and consulting services, are 
designed to help our customers increase safety within their own operations.
MEASURING SUCCESS  
We consistently measure health and safety performance to assure continuous 
improvement and high standards in every facility. The most important measure 
is the workplace injury rate among our global workforce, where Emerson has 
seen reductions in incidents between 2012 and 2016.
Our commitment to continual evaluation and improvement of our health and 
safety standards will help us to keep these numbers on a downward trend.
We conduct selective audits annually to measure compliance with Emerson’s 
and local safety standards, whichever is higher.  Based on audit results, we 
work with facility management to rate safety compliance, and provide step-
by-step plans to address any issues that are discovered.  In the vast majority of 
cases, audit issues are addressed within 90 days.
Labor Practices  
As part of our commitment to employees, we seek to uphold the highest 
standards in our labor practices, including conditions of employment and human 
rights.   We do not employ child or slave labor and we respect our employees’ 
right to freedom of association in choosing labor organizations to represent them.  
Many of our employees are represented by unions or works councils and we 
strive to maintain positive relationships with those representatives. In the United 
States, 6 percent of our workforce is unionized and 29 percent of our worldwide 
employees are represented by an employee representative organization such as a 
union or works council. 
WAGES AND BENEFITS  
Our compensation practices comply with applicable wage laws and 
international standards, including those relating to minimum wages, 
overtime compensation and legally mandated benefits. In compliance with 
local laws, employees receive compensation for overtime at pay rates higher 
than regular hourly rates. The basis on which workers are paid is documented 0.99
0.62
0.540.82
0.76
2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   TOTAL RECORDABLE RATE OF INJURIES
0.56
0.330.340.460.45
2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   LOST WORKDAY CASES OR 
RESTRICTED WORKDAY CASE S
257
202
137222
209
2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   RECORDABLE INJURIES*
3,0312,935
2,4632,7582,712
2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   FIRST-AID CASES 
Emerson health and safety information does not 
include discontinued operations
* Does not include restricted cases, lost work day 
cases or fatalitiesAS A COMPANY GLOBALLY:Corporate Social Responsibility Report30  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
in a timely manner via pay stub or similar written communication. It is 
Emerson’s policy to recruit, hire, train and promote people in all job 
classifications without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status, age, marital 
status, or genetic information. It is our policy and our practice that this equal 
employment opportunity be present in all aspects of employment, including 
but not limited to compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, 
company sponsored training, tuition assistance, and education.
PAID FAMILY LEAVE  
As a company that has grown by acquisition, Emerson has a wide variety of 
business units in the United States, in different industries and employment 
markets, and with different benefit structures. Paid leave is handled in a variety 
of ways at Emerson’s U.S. business units, with some units offering designated 
paid maternal and/or paternal parental leave in addition to vacation and other 
types of time off; some providing paid time off for any purpose; and some 
providing unpaid family leave in addition to traditional paid vacation. Emerson 
is currently studying the leave policies of its various business units in order to 
identify possibilities for harmonization of U.S. time-off programs.
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT  
Emerson operates with reasonable working hours to maintain a positive and 
productive work environment consistent with commonly accepted practices 
in each locale. Employees elect whether to accept employment after being 
fully apprised of the terms, conditions, practices and expectations of their 
jobs. Workers are not required to surrender government-issued identification, 
passports, or work permits as a condition of employment 
Human Rights  
As we work around the world, Emerson lives its commitment to respect and 
promote human rights that are essential to a healthy and vital commercial 
environment and to a broader society. This entails specific attention to 
particularly challenging issues and activities including:
 > Commitment to Humane Treatment -  We do not allow or condone 
any form of harsh or inhumane treatment, including sexual harassment, 
sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal 
abuse, nor do we allow managers to threaten treatment of this nature.
 > Prohibition on Forced Labor -  Our policies prohibit and we do not use any 
forced, bonded, indentured or other compulsory labor.  We also prohibit our 
suppliers from using any forced, bonded, indentured or other compulsory labor.  
Our policies are in compliance with important regulations like the UK Modern 
Slavery Act 2015. Emerson fully supports these and other efforts to eradicate 
human trafficking across the globe.Corporate Social Responsibility Report31  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
 > Prohibition of Child Labor - Our policies oppose child labor and we do 
not use child labor in any facility or business. Emerson has established 
age 18 as a standard minimum age for employment, which complies with 
or exceeds local legal requirements. We support the use of legitimate 
workplace apprenticeship programs that conform with laws and 
regulations. We also prohibit our suppliers from employing anyone under 
the local legal working age, or age 14, whichever is greater.
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS & REPORTING  
In addition to formal and informal complaint or grievance procedures at our 
business units, concerned parties have easy access to Emerson’s global ethics 
and compliance hotline to report complaints or concerns. 
The Board of Directors Audit Committee chair directly receives all accounting, 
audit, and internal control related hotline communications independent of 
management. In addition, the company’s Ethics Committee reviews the 
investigation results of all significant allegations and approves any related 
remediation action. The Chief Compliance Officer and Vice President, Internal 
Audit provides regular reports to the Audit Committee regarding these 
matters, which would include any potential human rights issues.In addition to formal and 
informal complaint or 
grievance procedures at our 
business units, concerned 
parties have easy access to 
Emerson’s global ethics and 
compliance hotline to report 
complaints or concerns. Corporate Social Responsibility Report32
We hold our suppliers to high standards, and expect them to align with our 
stances on social responsibility and ethics. To do so, we expect them to stay 
current with technology to deliver the best solutions to our customers in 
addition to acting with integrity and treating people and the environment with 
respect. These expectations help us maintain and build a supplier network that 
spans the globe, but always stays true to Emerson’s core values.  
Emerson is committed to helping our suppliers meet these requirements by 
investing in our network for continuous improvement.  These investments have 
potential to strengthen our suppliers, accelerate progress and improve quality 
of life in the regions where they operate throughout the world.
Our supply chain approach enables us to move at the speed of our customers’ 
needs, while always maintaining the highest levels of quality, backed by 
unwavering integrity and responsibility.  And it ensures a strong and flexible 
supply chain that is positioned to sustain Emerson and its customers for the 
long haul.
Our supplier management practices include:
VENDOR PRACTICES  
To enhance our knowledge of suppliers and limit the risk of inadvertently 
supporting wrongful practices, we use internal, industry and public 
sources to alert us to improper supply chain behavior. We expect supply 
chain managers in our businesses to make reasonable assessments of 
questionable activity and to ensure that all practices conform to Emerson   Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply Chain   |  Community
Supply Chain
At Emerson, our supply chain is essential to allow us to solve customer challenges 
and stay ahead of their needs. As our supply chain has expanded and broadened, 
we’ve focused our efforts on picking the right suppliers – those that share our 
values and principles – to help us deliver the right solutions in the right way.Corporate Social Responsibility Report33
expectations.  We encourage our businesses to conduct periodic reviews 
with large or preferred suppliers, which include discussion of social issues 
such as safety and environmental compliance.
TRAINING EMERSON EMPLOYEES  
Corporate social responsibility efforts address a range of complex issues 
across differing geographies, cultures and business practices. Acting 
responsibly requires knowledge of each subject, understanding of laws and 
practices, and the ability to recognize potential deviations. To deal with 
these complexities, Emerson trains managers and employees annually 
to help them engage effectively with suppliers as they communicate 
Emerson’s priorities. This training also helps improve our ability to 
recognize, report and support remediation of any compliance issues. 
AFFIRMING SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY  
We expect all suppliers to operate in a manner that supports Emerson’s 
commitment to conduct business responsibly.  Our form supplier agreement 
contains a “Standards of Conduct” clause, which states that we expect 
suppliers to comply with generally accepted principles of social responsibility, 
referencing the Emerson Supplier Code of Conduct .  Currently, almost half 
of Emerson’s supply chain spend is under contracts containing this clause, 
and we will continue to build this percentage over time.
We expect suppliers to abide by our ethical behavior guidelines that 
forbid any Emerson employee or family member from accepting payment 
from outside parties in connection with supplier transactions. We also 
prohibit suppliers from offering gifts that could influence Emerson-related 
purchasing decisions.
We strive to have all principal suppliers affirm their understanding of 
Emerson values and standards regarding ethical behavior, labor practices, 
human rights and environmental protection.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct was developed for compliance with 
important regulations like the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the 
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. Emerson fully supports these 
and all other efforts to eradicate human trafficking across the globe. View 
our statement on the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and 
United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act of 2015 .
MATERIALS COMPLIANCE  
At Emerson, we strive for a best-in-class supply chain across our 
businesses and around the world. We are committed to working with 
suppliers who adhere to the Emerson Supplier Code of Conduct and 
actively manage and demonstrate materials compliance with pertinent 
governmental laws and regulations, including REACH, RoHS and Conflict 
Minerals. View Emerson’s Materials Compliance  practices.    Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply Chain   |  Community
Corporate Social Responsibility Report34
EMERSON CONFLICT MINERALS STATEMENT  
Emerson supports all efforts to end the human suffering and environmental 
impact that has been associated with mining in the Democratic Republic 
of Congo and adjoining countries. Emerson is committed to meeting all 
legislative and regulatory requirements that seek to eradicate this suffering. 
Together with other major manufacturers, Emerson is a member of the 
Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) that is working to develop conflict-
free supply chains. 
To this end, Emerson expects its suppliers and their suppliers to acquire 
minerals only from responsible sources. View Emerson’s Conflict Minerals 
Statement  and our Form SD filing:  Conflict Minerals Report for the Year 
Ended December 31, 2016 .  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply Chain   |  Community
Corporate Social Responsibility Report35
Community  
Involvement 
Our corporate giving is focused on four primary areas:
 > Education  - Fostering learning through schools, universities, and  
related programs
 > Health and Human Services  - Promoting the health and well-being  
of residents
 >Arts and Culture  - Enhancing the quality of life through support for arts 
and cultural institutions
 > Civic  - Supporting infrastructure initiatives and other community needs
HELPING U.S. COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE  
Emerson and the Emerson Charitable Trust provide financial assistance 
and other support to local organizations in the United States with the goal 
of improving and enriching lives, promoting volunteerism, sponsoring 
education, and providing services to those in need.  
During fiscal year 2016, Emerson and the Emerson Charitable Trust made 
contributions of $32 million to charities, nonprofit organizations, and 
individual educational scholarships across the United States, including the 
company’s matching of employee contributions. Funding was approved 
for a wide range of requests from educational institutions and nonprofit 
organizations, including for capital costs to fund construction, renovation, 
improvements, or expansion of facilities and other infrastructure, and for 
operating costs to maintain core programs, to expand programs, or to launch 
new initiatives to address community needs.Emerson is committed to supporting the communities where we operate. 
Through our corporate philanthropy and employee volunteerism, we seek to help 
make these communities better and more attractive places to live and work – not 
just for the benefit of our own employees and their families – but for all residents.    Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
*2014 includes one-time $10 million gift 
to CityArchRiver Foundation in support of 
the redesign of Gateway Arch grounds in 
St. Louis, MO.$32.0$35.7
$32.0$33.1$43.1
2012   2013   2014*   2015   2016   
EMERSON/CHARITABLE TRUST 
U.S. CONTRIBUTIONS 
(IN MILLIONS USD)Corporate Social Responsibility Report36
Examples of organizations and initiatives that received Emerson funding include:
 > Missouri Botanical Garden  (St. Louis, MO) - in support of its capital 
campaign to renovate and enlarge its Ridgway Visitors Center. The 
Missouri Botanical Garden is considered one of the top botanical gardens 
in the world.
 > Junior Achievement USA  (Colorado Springs, CO) - in support of 
development of a middle school readiness program focused on STEM 
fields. Junior Achievement’s purpose it to inspire and prepare young 
people to succeed in a global economy.
 > SME Education Foundation  (Dearborn, MI) - – in support of launching its 
Partnership Response in Manufacturing Education (PRIME®) program in 
five high schools where Emerson has facilities to help grow and train the 
next generation workforce.
 > City of Sidney  (OH) - in support of parks and recreation improvements 
and city beautification. Sidney is home to a major Emerson Commercial & 
Residential Solutions facility.
Emerson and many of its employees are active participants in United Way 
fundraising and volunteer activities in the U.S. communities where our 
employees live and work. In 2016, the Emerson Charitable Trust made 
contributions to more than 30 United Way organizations across the country, 
including those serving Austin (TX), Cincinnati (OH), Atlanta (GA), Cleveland 
(OH), Houston (TX), Kansas City (MO), Knoxville (TN), Lorain County (OH), 
Philadelphia & Southern New Jersey (PA), St. Louis (MO), Twin Cities (MN), 
Waterbury (CT), Central Ohio (OH), Delaware County (OH), Grayson County 
(TX), Guernsey and Noble Counties (TX),  Marshalltown Area (IA), Northern 
New Jersey (NJ), Racine County (WI), and Richland County (OH).  
RENEWAL OF FERGUSON AND NORTH ST. LOUIS COUNTY  
St. Louis has been the home of Emerson’s corporate headquarters since 1890, 
and our campus in the suburb of Ferguson in north St. Louis County has been 
a part of our company’s operations since the 1940s. We have a deep, ongoing 
commitment to supporting organizations and initiatives that seek to improve 
quality of life for all who live in the St. Louis region.
In the wake of tragic events in Ferguson in August 2014, which sparked protests 
and civil unrest in the St. Louis area that gained national and international 
attention, Emerson reaffirmed its commitment to the region and took a leading 
corporate role in supporting initiatives to enhance social services, education 
and employment opportunities for economically-disadvantaged residents of 
Ferguson and north St. Louis County. Since 2014, Emerson has made donations 
and pledges, including a portion of its United Way contributions, totaling $15.4 
million (as of 2017) in support of initiatives specifically targeted to residents and 
youth of north St. Louis County.   Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT  
Emerson supports JA programs to 
prepare young people to succeed.Corporate Social Responsibility Report37
Among the approximately 80 organizations that received Emerson contributions 
in 2016 were:
 > Ranken Technical College  - $1.75 million over five years (2015-2019) to 
fund scholarships for students from north St. Louis County.
 >St. Louis Community College  - $1 million over six years (2016-2021) to 
fund scholarships to enable high school students from north St. Louis 
County to take STEM classes for college credit.
 > Beyond Housing  -$500,000 over four years (2016-2019) to support 
expansion of its services in north St. Louis County related to pre-
kindergarten children and their families, health and wellness, and job 
training and job search services.
 >STL Youth Jobs  - $1.65 million over three years (2015-2017) to provide 
at-risk youth ages 16-24 with individualized career assessment, financial 
literacy and job readiness training, and meaningful employment 
experience opportunities.
CHINA CHARITABLE PROGRAM  
In China, Emerson fulfills its commitment to being a good corporate citizen 
through its China Charitable Program. Launched in 2009, this initiative leverages 
our core capabilities of engineering and infrastructure development, and focuses 
on the key areas of education, civic support, and health and human services. 
The Emerson China Charitable Program is working with the New Great Wall 
Program to support more than 100 students through monetary donations, and 
our employees participate in volunteer teaching opportunities. Additionally, 
Emerson has provided scholarships for students attending the Quingquan 
primary school in An County, Mianyang in Sichuan province since 2012.  
Emerson is a long-time corporate sponsor of the China Women’s 
Development Foundation’s Water Cellars for Mothers project which aims 
to help relieve the water shortage in poverty-stricken villages that have 
no direct access to clean running water. Over the years, we have donated 
nearly $1 million to the Water Cellars for Mothers program and contributed 
many hours of volunteer work to help bring clean water to more than 5,000 
villagers in seven different locations in the province. Our employees from 
Shenzhen, Shanghai, Suzhou, Shenyang, Xian, Tianjin, Beijing, Lanzhou, 
Kunming, Hong Kong, and Chengdu have volunteered their time to visit the 
villages and help assess effectiveness and impact of the program.
INDIA CHARITABLE PROGRAM  
Emerson’s charitable program in India, in accordance with India regulations, 
seeks to support initiatives with impactful and enduring results. The 
primary focus of our India program is promoting continuity in education for 
disadvantaged youth.  Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report38
In 2016, we provided funding to the following nongovernment organizations (NGOs):
 > Masoom  - in support of its skill development courses for more than  
250 students.
 > Purkal Youth Development Society  - in support of its classes and to 
furnish a girls hostel.
 >Agastya International Foundation -in support of its innovative science 
education program for economically disadvantaged youth attending 
government schools in the cities of Pune and Pilani. 
 >SOS Children’s Villages of India  - in support of its programs that help 1,400 
youth across 32 villages grow up in a nurturing environment.
 > Lend-A-Hand India - in support of its mission to make a difference in the 
lives of the poor through self-help.
STEM Education and Careers   
Emerson has embraced and supported a wide range of initiatives to 
promote Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education 
and awareness in the communities where it operates. The company has 
made a multimillion dollar commitment to support STEM and robotics-
related programs through 2020 with a number of organizations and 
schools including Girls Scouts of Eastern Missouri; STEMpact; Harris-Stowe 
University; and University of Missouri-St. Louis. Additionally, Emerson 
employees have volunteered with STEM-related organizations, such as Girl 
Start in Austin, Texas; Air Camp in Dayton, Ohio; and Edina Public Schools, 
in Minnesota. 
In 2016, Emerson announced a $1 million commitment over six years to the 
St. Louis Community College Foundation to establish the Emerson STEM 
Academy at the college’s Florissant Valley campus. The Emerson STEM 
Academy allows students at targeted north St. Louis County high schools, 
particularly low-income and minority students, to enroll in college-level 
classes, with an emphasis on STEM degree pathways, to earn college credit. 
In 2016, we continued our ‘ We Love STEM ’ awareness campaign on social 
media with YouTube star Hank Green to inspire and empower the next 
generation of engineers by connecting science to technological advances 
and modern conveniences. Additionally, Emerson locations throughout the 
United States have hosted “I Love STEM” days for children and students to 
visit Emerson facilities and learn more about STEM careers. 
In Asia Pacific, Emerson employees have participated in a number of STEM 
activities, such as a Society of Women Engineers (SWE) roundtable in Shanghai; 
IEEE Women in Engineering networking and mentoring events in Hong Kong; 
sponsorship and participation in the first Society of Women Engineers event in 
India, including a facility visit to our Innovation Center in Pune.   Stewardship   |  Integrity & Ethics   |  Governance   |  People & Workplace   |  Supply  Chain   |  Community
SOS CHILDREN’S VILLAGES OF INDIA  
Emerson is providing financial support 
for SOS Children’s Villages of India to 
help disadvantaged youth.
“I LOVE STEM” DAYS   
Children and students visit Emerson 
facilities and learn more about STEM 
careers.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report39
2016
REFERENCED GRI
STANDARDS INDEXCorporate Social Responsibility Report40
GRI Standard
NumberGRI Standard
TitleDisclosure
TitleLocation
GRI 102-2 General 
DisclosuresActivities, brands, products, 
and servicesEmerson 2016 CSR Report:  Company Profile, p. 4
Emerson 2016 Form 10-K:  Item 1 - Business
Emerson.com
GRI 102-4 General 
DisclosuresLocation of operations Emerson.com:  Contact Us
Emerson 2016 Form 10-K:  Item 2 – Properties
Emerson.com:  Investor Fact Sheet
GRI 102-6 General 
DisclosuresMarkets served Emerson 2016 Form 10-K: Item 1 - Business
GRI 102-10 General 
DisclosuresSignificant changes to the 
organization and its supply chainEmerson 2016 Form 10-K:  Item 1 - Business
Emerson 2016 Annual Report: Letter to Shareholders
GRI 102-12 General 
DisclosuresExternal initiatives Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Minimizing Environmental Impact Through Facility 
Design and Operating Procedures), p. 11
Member of Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative
 
GRI 102-14 General 
DisclosuresStatement from senior 
decision-makerEmerson 2016 CSR Report: Letter from David Farr, p. 3
GRI 102-16 General 
DisclosuresValues, principles, standards, 
and norms of behavior Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  Integrity & Ethics, p. 15–17
Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Business Ethics)General 
DisclosuresName of the organization
General 
DisclosuresLocation of headquarters
General 
DisclosuresOwnership and legal form
General 
DisclosuresScale of the organization
General 
DisclosuresPrecautionary Principle 
or approach
General 
DisclosuresMembership of associations
General 
DisclosuresKey impacts, risks, and 
opportunitiesGRI 102-1 Emerson Electric Company
GRI 102-3 Emerson Electric Co.
8000 West Florissant Avenue, P.O. Box 4100
St. Louis MO 63136
United States
GRI 102-5 Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance - Articles of 
Incorporation
GRI 102-7 Emerson 2016 Form 10-K
Emerson.com:  Investor Fact Sheet
GRI 102-11 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Governance (Risk 
Management and Oversight), p. 23-24
Emerson 2016 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk Factors
GRI 102-13 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Company Profile 
(Memberships), p. 4
GRI 102-15 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Governance (Risk 
Management and Oversight), p. 23-24  
Emerson 2016 Form 10-K:  Item 1A – Risk Factors
General 
DisclosuresInformation on employees and 
other workersGRI 102-8 Partially reported: 
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: People & Workplace, p. 26-28General Disclosures
Corporate Social Responsibility Report40Corporate Social Responsibility Report41
GRI Standard
NumberGRI Standard
TitleDisclosure
TitleLocation
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-19 Delegating authority Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Principles and 
Practices – Board Oversight of Management)
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: 
– Corporate Governance, p. 21-24
– Environmental Stewardship (Environmental Principles), p. 10
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-22 Composition of the highest 
governance body and its 
committeesEmerson.com:  Corporate Governance
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Governance (Board of 
Directors Policies), p. 21-22
Emerson 2017 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 11
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the 
highest governance body Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and 
Practices)
Emerson 2017 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 11-12
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body 
in setting purpose, values, and 
strategyEmerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Principles and 
Practices)
Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Committee 
Charters)
Emerson 2017 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 46-48General 
DisclosuresChair of the highest 
governance body 
General 
DisclosuresConflicts of interest 
General 
Disclosures
General 
DisclosuresGeneral 
Disclosures
Effectiveness of risk 
management processes 
Review of economic, 
environmental, and social topicsIdentifying and managing 
economic, environmental, and 
social impactsGRI 102-23 Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and 
Practices)
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Governance (Board of 
Directors Policies), p. 21-22
Emerson 2017 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 45-48
GRI 102-25 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Integrity & Ethics (Conflict 
of Interest Evaluation and Reporting), p. 17
Emerson.com: Integrity and Ethics
GRI 102-30
GRI 102-31GRI 102-29
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Corporate Governance  
(Risk Management and Oversight) , p. 23-24
Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  Corporate Governance 
(Risk Management and Oversight) , p. 23-24
Emerson.com:  Audit Committee CharterEmerson.com:  Audit Committee Charter
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Corporate Governance (Risk 
Management and Oversight) , p. 23-24
General 
DisclosuresGovernance structure GRI 102-18 Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  Corporate Governance, p. 21-24
Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Principles and 
Practices)
Corporate Social Responsibility Report41
General 
DisclosuresMechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethicsGRI 102-17 Emerson.com:   Corporate Governance (Ethics and 
Compliance)
Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  Integrity & Ethics 
– (Ethics Program Handbook for Employees), p. 15-16
– (Ethics Hotline and Communication), p. 17
Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  Environmental Stewardship 
(Grievance Mechanisms), p. 13Corporate Social Responsibility Report42
GRI Standard
NumberGRI Standard
TitleDisclosure
TitleLocation
General 
DisclosuresProcess for determining 
remuneration GRI 102-36 Emerson 2017 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement:  
Executive Compensation
Emerson 2016 Form 10-K:  Part III
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-54 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: About This Report, p. 45
Economic 
PerformanceGRI 201-1 Emerson 2016 Form 10-KGeneral 
Disclosures
General 
Disclosures
Economic 
PerformanceGRI 102-53 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: About This Report, p. 45
GRI 102-55 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Referenced GRI 
Standards Index, p. 39-44
GRI 201-3 Emerson 2016 Form 10-KClaims of reporting in accordance 
with the GRI Standards
Direct economic value generated 
and distributedContact point for questions 
regarding the report 
GRI content index
Defined benefit plan obligations 
and other retirement plansGeneral 
DisclosuresGeneral 
Disclosures
General 
Disclosures
GRI 102-45GRI 102-40
GRI 102-41
Entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements  List of stakeholder groups
Collective bargaining agreements
Emerson 2016 Form 10-K:  Subsidiaries and Affiliates of 
Emerson Electric Co. , September 30, 2016Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  Company Profile 
(Memberships), p. 4 ; and other organizations listed 
throughout the report
Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  People & Workplace 
(Labor Practices) , p. 29
General 
Disclosures
General 
DisclosuresGeneral 
DisclosuresReporting period 
Date of most recent report 
Reporting cycleGRI 102-50
GRI 102-51
GRI 102-52Emerson 2016 CSR Report: About This Report, p. 45
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: About This Report, p. 45
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: About This Report, p. 45
Topic -Specific Disclosures
Corporate Social Responsibility Report42
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-35 Remuneration policies Emerson 2017 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement:  
Executive CompensationGeneral 
DisclosuresNature and total number of 
critical concernsGRI 102-34 Partially reported: 
Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  Integrity & Ethics (Ethics 
Hotline and Communication) , p. 17General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-33 Communicating critical 
concernsEmerson 2017 Annual Meeting Proxy StatementGeneral 
DisclosuresHighest governance body’s role 
in sustainability reportingGRI 102-32 The Corporate Social Responsibility Report is 
reviewed by the Emerson Board of Directors’ 
Corporate Governance & Nominating CommitteeCorporate Social Responsibility Report43
GRI Standard
NumberGRI Standard
TitleDisclosure
TitleLocation
GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumption
GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Partially reported:
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 14Reductions in energy requirements 
of products and services
Types of injury and rates of injury, 
occupational diseases,
lost days, and absenteeism, and 
number of work-related fatalitiesGRI 302-5 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Environmental 
Stewardship, p. 5-9
GRI 403-2 Partially Reported:
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: People & Workplace 
(Measuring Success), p. 29
Training and 
EducationGRI 404-2 Emerson.com: Careers (Learning & Development) Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programsEnvironmental 
Compliance
Occupational 
Health and SafetyGRI 307-1 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Fines and Sanctions), p. 13Non-compliance with environmental 
laws and regulationsEmissions GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissionsEnergy
Energy
Energy
WaterGRI 302-1 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 14
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 14
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 14
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 14Emissions GRI 305-1Energy consumption within the 
organization
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Corporate Social Responsibility Report43
Materials GRI 301-2 Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Materials Usage), p. 11-12Recycled input materials usedAnti-competitive 
behaviorGRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practicesEmerson 2016 Form 10-K:  Legal ProceedingsAnti-corruption GRI 205-2 Communication and training 
about anti-corruption policies
and proceduresPartially reported:
Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  Integrity & Ethics (Anti-
Corruption Training), p. 17Indirect Economic 
ImpactsGRI 203-1 Partially reported: 
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Community Involvement 
(Corporate Giving), p. 35-38Infrastructure investments and 
services supportedCorporate Social Responsibility Report44
GRI Standard
NumberGRI Standard
TitleDisclosure
TitleLocation
Human Rights 
Assessment
Public PolicyGRI 412-3
GRI 415-1Partially Reported:
 
Supply Chain (Affirming Supplier Responsibility) , p. 33
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Integrity & Ethics 
(Political Contributions, )p. 18-20
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Political 
Contributions)Significant investment agreements 
and contracts that include human 
rights clauses or that underwent 
human rights screening
Political contributionsGRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 
and employeesPartially Reported:
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: People and Workplace 
(Emerson’s U.S. Workforce), p. 26
Emerson 2016 CSR Report: Corporate Governance 
(Board of Directors Policies), p. 22Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity
Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAbout This Report 
The Emerson 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report presents information 
focused primarily on data collected and activities that occurred during calendar 
2016 or Emerson’s fiscal 2016 (October 1, 2015 – September 30, 2016), except 
where indicated otherwise. There were two major divestitures in process during 
this timeframe and, where appropriate, we have indicated whether the data we 
present here includes those discontinued businesses or not. Also, as this report was 
published in October 2017, there are some references to Company structure and 
actions since 2016 and we have attempted to be clear on the timeframe.
Please note this year’s report presents information that references selected Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2016. Please see the Referenced GRI Standards 
Index beginning on page 39 for details.
We expect to update this report annually. However, we undertake no obligation 
to update any statements herein to reflect later developments.  This report may 
contain forward-looking statements that are not strictly historical which involve 
risk and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency 
conditions, market demand, pricing, protection of intellectual property, and 
competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in Emerson’s 
most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the  
U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission.
Any questions or comments regarding this report can be directed to the  
Emerson Investor Relations Department,  
8000 W. Florissant Avenue,  
St. Louis, MO 63136, +1-314-553-2197,  
or email investor.relations@emerson.com.  
Emerson, Emerson Charitable Trust, Plantweb, Ovation, Rosemount, InSinkErator, Copeland, Copeland Scroll 
Heating, Vilter, Grind2Energy, Ridge Tool, and their related designs and logotypes are trademarks, service 
marks and/or trade names of Emerson, its subsidiaries, affiliates, investments, or joint ventures. Northgate 
Markets, Whole Foods Market, Hitachi Zosen Inova, Perpetua, Power Puck, LEED, Consortium for Graduate 
Study in Management, CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, Society of Women Engineers, Woman Engineer 
magazine, Goodwill Easer Seals Miami Valley, Missouri Botanical Garden, Junior Achievement USA, SME 
Education Foundation, United Way and its local affiliates, Ranken Technical College, St. Louis Community 
College, Beyond Housing, STL Youth Jobs, Girl Scouts of Easter Missouri, STEMpact, Girl Start, and Air Camp 
and their related designs and logotypes are trademarks, service marks and/or trade names of their owner, 
and are not owned or affiliated with Emerson.
©Emerson Electric Co., 2017. All Rights Reserved.45Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEmerson
World Headquarters
8000 W. Florissant Avenue
P.O. Box 4100
St. Louis, MO 63136 
USA 
Emerson.com
 