2020ENVIRONMENTAL,  
SOCIAL AND  
GOVERNANCE REPORT2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 C EO  
  MESSAGE
 5  CHAIR   
  MESSAGE
 6  COMPANY  
  PROFILE
 8  O U R  
  PURPOSE
 9  O U R  
  COMMITMENT   
  TO ESG 10 PLANET
• Our Approach  
to Environmental 
Sustainability 
• Greening  
Of Emerson 
• Greening  
By Emerson 
• Greening  
With Emerson  23 HUMANITY
• Industry 
Stewardship 
• Workplace Safety 
• Health and Safety 
Performance 30 CHAMPION  
• Corporate 
Governance 
• Integrity & Ethics 
• Supply Chain 40 INCLUSION
• Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion
• Employee 
Engagement 
• Training and 
Development 51 FUTURE
• Advancing the 
Future of Our 
Industries 
• Training the 
Workforce of  
the Future 
• Advancing the 
Future of Our 
Communities 
• STEM Education 62  REPORTING
• UN Sustainable 
Development Goals
• GRI Index
• SASB 
• TCFD
82  ABOUT   
  THIS   
  REPORTTABLE OF CONTENTS2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT3 CEO MESSAGE
global Purpose in 2020: We drive innovation that makes  
the world healthier, safer, smarter and more sustainable.
Our Purpose is a daily reinforcement of our shared passion to 
further ESG growth across the organization. This effort is not only 
good for our planet and for our society, but also keeps our business 
strong and thriving. For decades, we have helped our customers 
advance their sustainability initiatives as we drive our own internal 
advancement. We were pleased to name Mike Train as Emerson’s 
first Chief Sustainability Officer in early 2021. Mike will be a 
tremendous champion for both our customers and the industry.
Emerson has navigated many tests as the global landscape has 
shifted over the past 130 years. And every time, our incredibly 
talented workforce, adaptability and commitment to customers 
and industries have enabled us to not only survive difficult times, 
but to come out on the other end as a better, stronger company. 
This was true in 2020, too. It’s fitting, then, that this year we both 
crystallized our Purpose-centered mindset and reimagined the 
Causes we work toward every day, with the input of more than 
17,000 employees. It’s these new Causes — Planet, Humanity, 
Champion, Inclusion and Future  — around which we tell the story  
of our ESG progress in this report. We drive innovation that makes 
the world healthier, safer, 
smarter and more sustainable.Dear Stakeholders,
I’ve experienced several firsts in the months since I became Chief 
Executive Officer, but my first time introducing our environmental, social 
and governance report holds special significance for me. Working across  
the organization for decades in different roles on different continents, 
I’ve seen how a determined emphasis on ESG topics brings out the best 
in our workforce — and our company. Accelerating our progress in this 
space — and building on our internal culture to sustain this advancement —  
is one of my top priorities as CEO. 
We all have a responsibility to create a better world. A world that prizes 
and protects our valuable resources. A more equitable world that 
celebrates and empowers our diverse backgrounds and experiences. 
And a world that offers thoughtful solutions to make our lives easier 
and smoother so we can focus on what matters. At Emerson, we are 
so committed to making this vision a reality that we articulated a new 
 CEO MESSAGE2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT4 CEO MESSAGELike every company, we were confronted with the global challenge of 
COVID-19. Emerson rallied with an emphasis on three goals: helping 
keep our 83,500 employees safe, ensuring business continuity, and 
serving customers in essential industries around the world with the 
technologies and services they needed to stay operational — including 
life sciences, water, food and beverage, power and energy, the cold 
chain, and indoor air comfort and quality. We also responded to 
community needs with financial support as the economic crisis 
resulting from the pandemic began to take effect. More information 
about these efforts is included throughout this report.
We have been building a foundation for advancing diversity, equity  
and inclusion. As a global technology organization, we know that 
diverse perspectives and backgrounds are integral to company  
culture and innovation. Unfortunately, events throughout 2020 
illuminated the very real inequities in our society and ignited a  
fire to eliminate racism and discrimination. We are committed to 
advancing inclusion throughout our company, ensuring our workforce 
reflects the industries and world we serve. We recently introduced  
a goal to drive accountability in this space. As a company, we are 
committed to a goal of doubling representation of women  
globally and U.S. minorities at the leadership level by 2030.  We all have a role in making this vision a reality. Akberet Boykin Farr, 
our Vice President of Diversity and Social Responsibility, is a driving 
force for these efforts, in partnership with our Blacks Reinforcing 
Diversity, Women in STEM, Veterans, LGBTQ + Allies, Somos 
(Latin American and Hispanic) and Asian & Pacific Islander Alliance 
employee resource groups.  
I want to extend my personal gratitude to the Emerson Board of 
Directors, management team, customers and employees, as well  
as retired Chairman and CEO David Farr. The past year has been  
filled with many challenges — and many achievements as we worked 
together to overcome each one. I’m inspired by what Emerson 
accomplished in 2020 — and even more energized for what we  
are achieving together in 2021. 
My personal regards,
Lal Karsanbhai  
President and CEO
Board of Directors
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
5 CHAIR MESSAGEDiversity is also top of mind for us — both within the walls  
of Emerson and on the Board itself. Emerson works hard  
to ensure the Board is a diverse group with deep expertise. 
Today, 50% of our members are women, people of color or of 
a diverse nationality. Prioritizing diverse viewpoints on the 
Board reinforces Emerson’s larger emphasis on creating a more 
inclusive workforce, an important goal shared across all levels  
of company leadership.
The company has set a strong foundation for ESG initiatives 
that we will continue to build upon for years to come. We  
look forward to advancing Emerson’s ESG strategy through 
regular meetings with Lal Karsanbhai and other members  
of management to engage in a dialogue about company 
progress and initiatives. 
Sincerely,
James Turley  
Chair, Emerson Board of DirectorsDear Stakeholders,
ESG strategy is an increasingly important topic at the highest levels of 
company leadership. This is for good reason. We know that a focus on 
ESG is foundational to successful business outcomes, and I’m pleased 
this is reflected within the Boardroom at Emerson. 
We’ve been formalizing the Board’s commitment to ESG oversight. 
In 2020, we amended the charter of the Corporate Governance and 
Nominating Committee to emphasize its role in overseeing important 
issues of public policy and corporate social responsibility, including 
health, safety, and environmental and sustainability policies and 
reporting. We also formed the Environmental Sustainability Steering 
Committee to further Emerson’s efforts to drive environmentally 
responsible solutions for the company and the industries it serves.
Mark A. Blinn Clemens A. H. Boersig Joshua B. Bolten
Martin S. Craighead William H. Easter III Gloria A. Flach
Arthur F. Golden Candace Kendle Lori M. Lee
Matthew S. Levatich James S. Turley Lal KarsanbhaiCHAIR MESSAGE
6
 COMPANY PROFILE
COMPANY PROFILE
Emerson is a global industrial software, engineering and 
manufacturing company with a 130-year legacy of providing 
innovative solutions for customers in industrial, commercial and 
residential markets. Through our two business platforms — Automation 
Solutions and Commercial & Residential Solutions — we develop and 
deliver advanced technologies, software and services that enhance 
productivity, efficiency, sustainability and safety for our customers.
AMERICAS
37K 100EUROPE
19K 50GLOBAL TOTALS
84K ~200
ASIA, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA
28K 50
Employees
Manufacturing 
Locations
More information about Emerson’s 
business and operational performance 
can be found at Emerson.com and in our 
latest Annual Report to Shareholders and 
Form 10-K filing with the U.S. Securities & 
Exchange Commission and in subsequent 
reports we file with the SEC.RANKED #176   
America’s largest  
corporations by revenue  
in 2020 (FORTUNE 500)
RANKED #5   
FORTUNE 2020 World’s  
Most Admired Companies  
(Industrial Machinery category)
RANKED #12   
by Women Engineer Magazine’s  
list of top employers 
RANKED #41   
in Newsweek’s 2021  
ranking of America’s Most  
Responsible Companies 
SCORED 100%   
2021 Corporate Equality Index
RANKED #205   
FORBES 2020 World’s Best  
Large EmployersHeadquarters:  ST. LOUIS,  
MISSOURI (USA)  
Founded: 1890
Stock symbol:  NYSE: EMR
21K active patents held  
by Emerson employees  
worldwide in 2020Recognitions Key Facts at a Glance2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT7 COMPANY PROFILE
INDUSTRIES SERVED
• Life Sciences & Medical
• Power Generation,  
Transmission & Distribution 
• Chemical
• Oil Production,  
Transmission & Refining
• Natural Gas Production, 
Transmission & LNG
• Food & Beverage
• Metals & Mining
• Water & Wastewater
• Automotive
• ElectronicsINDUSTRIES SERVED  
• Residential Construction  
& Home Improvement
• Commercial Buildings  
& Construction
• Energy & Utilities
• Facility Management  
& Maintenance
• Food Service & Hospitality
• Food Retail
• Healthcare & Life Sciences
• TransportationCAPABILITIES
• Industrial Internet of Things
• Systems &  
Asset Management
• Industrial Software
• Measurement 
Instrumentation
• Fluid Control & Pneumatics
• Valves, Actuators  
& Regulators
• Welding, Assembly  
& Cleaning
• Electrical & Lighting
• Industry Services & SolutionsCAPABILITIES
• Heating & Air  
Conditioning Technology
• Smart Thermostats
• Home Improvement,  
Repair & Maintenance
• Professional Tools
• Commercial Comfort & Cleaning
• Cold Chain Software & Technology
 −Real-time tracking and  
data services
 −Refrigeration and cold storage
 −Temperature and  
environmental monitoring
• Energy & Facility  
Management Solutions
• Food Waste ManagementKEY PRODUCT BRANDS
• Plantweb
• DeltaV
• Ovation
• PACSystems
• Rosemount
• Micro Motion
• ASCO
• AVENTICS
• BettisKEY PRODUCT BRANDS
• Copeland
• Greenlee
• InSinkErator
• Klauke
• Lumity
• RIDGID
• Sensi• Fisher
• Keystone
• KTM
• Vanessa
• Branson
• HTE
• Appleton
• OSI, Inc.Business Platforms
Our leading digital transformation technologies are helping some of the world’s largest companies reach unprecedented 
levels of performance. Our leading software is driving exceptional speed and safety in pharmaceutical manufacturing, 
and our technologies are helping process, hybrid and discrete manufacturers to protect personnel and the environment, 
optimize operations, maximize production and enhance energy efficiency. Our advanced technologies and long-standing industry expertise are helping provide human comfort and health, protect the 
quality and integrity of temperature-sensitive food and pharmaceuticals, and create sustainable infrastructure. We are leading 
the industry in a drive for more sustainable heating and cooling solutions, engineering more efficient technologies that help 
people live comfortable, safe lives with less impact on the environment. 55K 27KAutomation Solutions Commercial & Residential Solutions8 OUR PURPOSE
OUR PURPOSE
Our Emerson Purpose is our 
North Star that is brought to 
life by our people — through 
their ongoing dedication 
to our Causes and Values. 
Over 17,000 of our global 
colleagues collaborated to help 
articulate our global Purpose, 
demonstrating a collective 
passion for our commitment to 
the environment, society and 
operational integrity. Our Purpose: We drive innovation 
that makes the world healthier, safer, 
smarter and more sustainable.
Our Causes and Values 
shape, define and fuel 
Emerson’s culture — they 
embody our aspirations and 
serve as the foundation of 
our character and behavior. 
Most importantly, they give 
meaning to our daily work, 
inspiring us to leave the 
world in a better place  
than we found it.Our Causes Our Values
We deliver sustainable solutions that improve 
efficiency, reduce emissions and conserve resources.INTEGRITY  
We are uncompromising in our honest and ethical 
behavior, which creates trusting relationships with 
one another, customers, suppliers and communities. 
SAFETY & QUALITY   
We are unwavering in our commitment to the  
highest standards of safety and quality for ourselves 
and our customers. 
SUPPORT OUR PEOPLE   
We attract, develop and retain exceptional people  
in an inclusive work environment, where all 
employees can reach their greatest potential.
CUSTOMER FOCUS   
We actively listen to our customers to deeply 
understand their needs and deliver the unique 
solutions that ensure their success. 
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT   
We constantly strive for improvement in all aspects  
of our business, guided by metrics, feedback and  
our disciplined management process. 
COLLABORATION   
We work seamlessly across geographies, platforms, 
business units and functions to fully leverage our 
unmatched breadth and expertise. 
INNOVATION   
We passionately pursue new technologies, 
capabilities and approaches to drive tangible  
value in our customers.We cultivate an environment based  
on trust and support.We strive to advance health, comfort,  
food quality and safety.
We promote STEM education and programs  
that prepare the next generation of critical  
thinkers and problem solvers.We lead our customers through complex  
technical, regulatory and economic challenges.9 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
We are committed to 
ensuring our business 
practices are sustainable, 
and we have an integral role 
in enabling our customers 
and suppliers to do the same.At Emerson, we continue to advance 
our strategy and take action 
around environmental, social 
and governance issues (ESG). 
This page includes a 
selection of topics as they 
relate to our continued 
ESG efforts and the 
corresponding page number 
or website link where you 
can find more information.  
ENVIRONMENTAL  
Our Approach to Environmental 
Sustainability , Pages 11-12
Reducing Our GHG Emissions ,  
Page 14
Tracking Our Environmental 
Footprint , Pages 16-17
Energy Source Decarbonization: 
Supporting Low Carbon 
Commitments , Page 19
Emissions Management: Diverting 
Waste from Landfills , Page 20
Collaborating with Universities 
around the World , Page 22
Protecting Food Quality and 
Environmental Sustainability ,  
Page 26
Supporting Supplier  
Sustainability , Page 38SOCIAL  
COVID-19 Response Efforts ,  
Pages 24-25
Enabling Safety and Security ,  
Page 27
Workplace Safety , Pages 28-29
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion , 
Pages 41-46
Employee Engagement , Pages 47-48
Training and Development ,  
Pages 49-50
Training the Workforce of  
the Future , Pages 53-54  
Advancing the Future of Our 
Communities , Pages 55-59
STEM Education , Pages 60-61GOVERNANCE  
Board of Directors Policies , 
Pages 31-32
Recent Corporate Governance 
Actions , Page 32
Risk Management and 
Oversight , Page 33
Integrity & Ethics ,  
Pages 34-35  
Supply Chain , Pages 36-39 PLANET
We deliver sustainable 
solutions that improve 
efficiency, reduce emissions 
and conserve resources.
How we foster collaboration 
among stakeholders How we support and enable  
our customers’ decarbonization 
and environmental 
sustainability effortsHow we improve our internal 
environmental sustainability 
performanceGreening OF 
EmersonGreening BY 
EmersonGreening WITH  
Emerson
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
11
PLANET
OUR APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY  
We understand the important 
role we play in advancing new 
technologies and solutions that 
help improve environmental 
sustainability for our customers 
and the industries they serve.  
This includes enabling the 
deployment of low-carbon fuels 
and power sources, reducing 
emissions leakage, improving 
energy and resource efficiency, 
and decreasing waste. Worldwide, 
our teams are driven to develop 
and scale new innovations that Environmental sustainability 
strategies are a critical issue 
for Emerson and industrial 
manufacturers across the globe.
help both Emerson and our 
customers reach environmental 
sustainability goals as we work 
together to create a healthier, 
cleaner planet. 
In 2020, we took measurable steps 
to further enhance our approach 
to environmental sustainability 
and define our role in making 
the world more sustainable. 
Our strategy is summarized by 
our “Greening Of, Greening By, 
Greening With” framework:
▼GREENHOUSE GAS   
(GHG) EMISSIONS
▼ENERGY   
CONSUMPTION
▼WATER   
CONSUMPTION  Implementing  
EMERSON TECHNOLOGIES,  
SOLUTIONS AND  
EXPERTISEParticipating in  
LEADING SUSTAINABILITY  
INDUSTRY FORUMS
Partnering with  
academic institutions to  
DRIVE SUSTAINABLE  
INNOVATION
Engaging with  
governments globally to  
SUPPORT  
SUSTAINABILITY-  
RELATED POLICIES   
AND REGULATIONS2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT12
PLANET
A Word From Emerson’s First  
Chief Sustainability Officer, Mike Train 
Emerson is serious about focusing our efforts and purpose around environmental sustainability, 
and I’m proud to serve as our first Chief Sustainability Officer. In this role, I will lead our global 
environmental sustainability strategy as we drive progress within our facilities and help our 
customers achieve their ESG objectives. Across our company, Emerson is highly relevant to  
a more sustainable future with expertise, technologies, solutions and a global perspective that 
can help the world find a path forward. This section of our ESG Report details a few ways we’re 
doing just that, and we look forward to continuing this momentum in the years ahead.We established an Environmental 
Sustainability Steering Committee,  
a decision-making body with 
the mission of centrally aligning 
and coordinating environmental 
sustainability-related activities  
and initiatives across Emerson.  The Committee’s role is to 
recommend strategies and actions 
that help advance Emerson’s 
standing on environmental 
sustainability across all three  
areas of our framework,  
as well as to educate and 
encourage the use of best 
practices throughout Emerson. 
The Steering Committee 
comprises Emerson’s executive 
leadership and management  
teams covering all functions, 
including legal, finance, 
operations, supply chain, 
marketing, investor relations, 
business development and 
strategy planning.In 2020, Committee  
activities included:
• Launching an Environmental 
Sustainability Intranet Hub 
for Emerson employees to act 
as connective tissue across 
the corporation on this topic. 
• Designing a corporate-wide, 
locally driven employee 
engagement initiative to 
drive a more sustainable 
culture and encourage 
site-level leadership on 
environmental sustainability. 
• Planning additional ESG 
disclosures and publishing  
an SASB and TCFD addendum. • Analyzing environmental 
sustainability and climate 
policy and engaging with key 
industry stakeholders and 
decision-makers in Europe 
and China.
Looking ahead, the Committee 
plans to introduce environmental 
sustainability teams at all our 
global sites. These management-
led teams, open to people who 
are passionate about this topic 
and eager to make a measurable 
impact, will set goals and targets 
to achieve. 2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT13
PLANET
GREENING OF EMERSON
Highlights of our principles include: 
• Complying with all 
applicable laws and 
regulations. 
• Working to minimize 
environmental impact. 
• Conserving energy. 
• Conducting regular training. 
• Auditing our operations.Audit Committee of the  
Board of Directors.
We are integrating the “E” 
of environmental, social and 
governance into our management 
process, including embedding 
environmental sustainability 
into Emerson’s growth planning. 
These processes are advancing 
Emerson as a business and helping 
us drive our environmental 
sustainability goals forward. For 
example, in 2020, we launched 
a number of scenario analysis 
and road mapping pilot exercises 
with Automation Solutions in 
Europe and China and Commercial 
& Residential Solutions North 
America to identify short-, 
medium- and long-term business 
opportunities and risks as a result 
of decarbonization. Because our supply chain 
influences our overall 
environmental impact, we 
have also started to identify 
opportunities for improvement 
among our energy providers, Designing Green Buildings
Emerson recently opened its Branson welding and assembly 
technologies’ global headquarters in Brookfield, Connecticut,  
United States. The new building features energy-efficient construction 
methods including space wattage limitations, energy-saving LED 
lighting, automated controls for daylight harvesting and recovering  
heat from manufacturing operations to help warm the facility.  
Learn more about Emerson’s green buildings on our website. Emerson’s business unit 
presidents implement these 
principles and are primarily 
responsible for carrying out 
environmental compliance 
programs with support and 
guidance from Corporate 
Environmental Affairs. Our 
general counsel oversees 
implementation of our 
environmental management 
principles and periodically 
reports performance to the  supply chain partners and 
logistics services to support 
similar environmental 
objectives (see Page 38 ). 
In the effort to improve our internal 
environmental performance, 
we manage our manufacturing 
facilities around the world according 
to a global set of principles.COPELAND   
FACILITY   
Ava, Missouri, United States Water
Replaced analog flow 
meters with digital flow 
meters to accurately 
dispense water to  
process rinses,  
SAVING 5.6 MILLION  
GALLONS OF WATER  
PER YEAR.
EMERSON CORPORATE  
HEADQUARTERS   
St. Louis, Missouri, United StatesWaste
RECYCLED  
APPROXIMATELY   
81%, OR ABOUT   
2 MILLION POUNDS,  
of the solid waste generated  
on campus in 2020.
MEASUREMENT SOLUTIONS FACILITY   
Beijing, ChinaRaw Materials
Updated the welding process, leakage detecting and  
monitoring system, and upgraded equipment,  
REDUCING 11,200+ M3 OF HELIUM PER YEAR.Energy
PROFESSIONAL TOOLS FACILITY   
Remscheid, Germany
Replaced fluorescent tubes with LED lighting  
REDUCING ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION   
BY 12% IN FISCAL YEAR 2020.
CLIMATE FACILITY   
Rayong, Thailand
Completed several process and engineering improvements 
including reducing air leakage from all compressors, 
implementing automatic shutdowns of key industrial 
equipment, and installing more energy efficient equipment,  
REDUCING 450,000 KWH OF ELECTRICITY   
AND 2.2 MILLION M3 OF NATURAL GAS PER YEAR.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
14
PLANETReducing Our  
GHG Emissions
In 2019, we made a commitment 
to reduce our GHG emissions  
by 20%, normalized to sales, across 
our entire global manufacturing 
footprint and shared service 
facilities by 2028, measured by our 
baseline year of 2018. During the 
2020 fiscal year, while our overall 
emissions decreased from 2019, 
declining sales amid the COVID-19 
pandemic hampered further 
reductions in our GHG emissions 
intensity factor (See Page 16 ). 
We are implementing strategies 
and action plans to reduce our 
GHG emissions worldwide. An 
energy management and GHG 
reduction playbook was distributed 
to all operations leaders across 
the company in 2020, helping 
ensure best practices in emissions 
reductions are implemented across 
our manufacturing sites globally. 
Additionally, we led virtual and  
in-person energy audits, when 
travel restrictions allowed, to identify site-level opportunities to 
reduce energy use and emissions. 
For example, we identified 
opportunities to reduce energy 
use and emissions at our Copeland 
Alliance facility in Natchitoches, 
Louisiana, by 4.6 million kWh 
and approximately 7% from a 
fiscal 2020 baseline, respectively. 
At our Rosemount facility in 
Chanhassen, Minnesota, we 
identified opportunities to reduce 
1.1 million kWh in energy and 
approximately 8% from a fiscal 
2020 baseline in emissions.
Striving for Efficiency 
across Energy, Waste, 
Water and Raw Materials 
Implementing and enforcing 
energy conservation and efficiency 
tactics at our facilities in fiscal 
2020 contributed to reducing 
more than 4.8 million kWhs. We 
are also striving to reduce our 
waste, water and raw material 
usage. Some examples from 
around the world include: Paul McAndrew  is our vice 
president and general manager, 
Pipe and Electrical, Professional 
Tools North America. Responsible 
for some of Emerson’s largest 
manufacturing operations in 
the United States, Paul has truly 
integrated energy priorities into 
his business unit’s management 
process. His team of “energy 
champions” gathers and analyzes 
daily electricity usage data, which 
has led to significant reductions 
in energy intensity across the 
business unit. While energy 
reduction provides cost savings, 
Paul says it’s about being a 
responsible corporate citizen and 
minimizing the environmental 
impact of Emerson’s operations. Emerson Employees  
Making an Impact:  
Making Energy 
Management a Priority 
15
PLANETIn 2020, Emerson drove  
 a 10% decrease in CO2 
emissions, an 11% decrease  
in global electricity usage  
and an 18.5% decrease in 
global water consumption.
Emissions  
Intensity*
MARKET-BASED   
INTENSITY
GHG emissions intensity is measured in Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 (market-based) metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (MT CO2e) per million dollars in sales.
*Emerson updated its market-based GHG emissions 
intensity calculations to include renewable energy. 
We also conducted a thorough review of historical 
data, striving to more accurately document and 
disclose our historical carbon footprint. This resulted 
in additional revisions to our energy consumption 
and emissions data for FY18 and FY19, including the 
decrease in GHG emissions intensity in 2019 from  
the 2018 baseline value, which was 7.8%.’18 ’19 ’2039.136.0 37.0Greenhouse  
Gas Emissions* 
SCOPE 1:   
DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS  
Includes the combustion of fossil fuels  
(e.g., natural gas, fuel oil, propane, 
etc.) for comfort heating or other  
industrial applications at Emerson  
manufacturing and nonmanufacturing  
facilities worldwide.SCOPE 2:   
INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS  
Includes the consumption of 
purchased electricity, steam or other  
sources of energy (e.g., chilled water)  
generated upstream from Emerson  
manufacturing and nonmanufacturing  
facilities worldwide. 
All GHG emissions are measured in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO2e).
Our emissions reporting includes all facilities within our operational control, including nonmanufacturing facilities such as warehouses, 
distribution centers, headquarter buildings, sales offices and engineering centers. Our greenhouse gas emissions and electricity calculations for 
fiscal year 2020 included 185 manufacturing facilities and 548 nonmanufacturing facilities. Our emissions intensity reporting only considers 
emissions from our global manufacturing footprint. Where primary activity data was not available, we have made assumptions — based on 
occupancy, square footage, site use and other factors — to be thorough and transparent.’18 ’19 ’20173,987 172,553 154,082
’18 ’19 ’20692,627 678,912
611,523
’18 ’19 ’20697,535 682,177
611,660
5.5%
DECREASE
in GHG 
emissions 
intensity in 
2020 from 
the 2018 
baseline  
valueTracking Our 
Environmental 
Footprint: Our 
Environmental Data Market-based 
emissions  include 
supplier emission 
factors, net 
residual factors 
and renewable 
energy. Location-based 
emissions  include  
grid electricity 
emission factor 
averages multiplied 
by the total purchased 
electricity. 
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
16
PLANETOur greenhouse gas emissions and 
electricity calculations for fiscal year 
2020 included 185 manufacturing 
facilities and 548 nonmanufacturing 
facilities. Our water consumption 
calculations for fiscal year 2020 
included 185 manufacturing 
facilities. Where primary activity 
data was not available, we have 
made assumptions — based  
on occupancy, square footage, 
site use and other factors — to be 
thorough and transparent. 
Emerson’s water usage in U.S. gallons,  
as reported by our manufacturing  
facilities worldwide.Emerson’s electricity usage in megawatt 
hours, as reported by our manufacturing 
and nonmanufacturing facilities worldwide.Electricity  
Use*
Water  
Consumption*Emerson updated its market-
based GHG emissions intensity 
calculations to include renewable 
energy. We also conducted a 
thorough review of historical 
data, striving to more accurately 
document and disclose our 
historical carbon footprint. This 
resulted in additional revisions 
to our energy consumption and 
emissions data for FY18 and FY19, 
including the decrease in GHG 
emissions intensity in 2019 from 
the 2018 baseline value, which 
was 7.8%.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
17
PLANETEnvironmental Compliance 
As we design, engineer and 
manufacture our products and 
solutions, we implement controls 
that help ensure our materials 
and processes are safe and 
adhere to industry standards 
and government regulations, 
including from an environmental 
perspective. In 2020, 81% of  
Emerson manufacturing 
facilities received environmental 
compliance reviews. Due to 
the pandemic, many audits 
were postponed until they 
can be carried out in a safe 
manner. Learn more about our 
environmental compliance  
on our website. For 2020 fines  
and sanctions, please see  
Page 74  in our GRI Index. ’19
’20
’19
’201,156,341,118 
942,189,954’18 1,116,166,3891,303,999 
1,160,763’18 1,306,457 2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT18
PLANET
GREENING BY EMERSON
Top Quartile performance means 
being within the top 25% of their 
peers in key areas such as improved 
reliability, enhanced safety, higher 
production and lower emissions 
and energy usage. 
Emerson is committed to delivering 
environmentally sustainable 
solutions and supporting our 
customers’ decarbonization 
strategies by providing solutions 
that enable: • The management and removal  
of production emissions 
(e.g., through carbon capture 
utilization and the storage, 
monitoring and prevention  
of fugitive emissions).
• The growing electrification  
of transportation and other  
end-uses, such as heat pumps,  
alongside the integration 
of the whole energy system 
such as improvements in  
grid management. 
Emerson’s software offerings play 
an important role across these 
environmental sustainability 
efforts. For example, our Plantweb  
Optics™ Analytics  software — 
part of our Plantweb™ digital 
ecosystem and recognized as  
the 2021 ‘Analytics Platform of  
the Year’  at the IoT Breakthrough 
Awards  — uses artificial intelligence 
and machine learning to improve 
reliability and safety and to reduce energy use, GHG emissions and 
material waste, while optimizing 
production for industrial 
manufacturers. We also introduced 
augmented reality (AR) technology  
for Plantweb Optics , enabling workers with enhanced access  
to critical information and expert 
guidance as well as empowering 
remote collaboration to maintain 
operations and prevent downtime.• An optimized production 
of alternative fuels like 
hydrogen and biofuels  
and low-carbon power 
sources like solar, wind, 
hydro and nuclear.
• The improvement of 
ecosystem energy and 
material efficiency  
in production systems, 
commercial and residential 
buildings and throughout 
the cold chain.Acquisitions with Sustainability in Mind 
In 2020, our investment strategy included acquisitions such as:
• Open Systems International, Inc. (OSI Inc.) , strengthening our 
ability to help customers incorporate renewable energy sources  
and improve energy efficiency and reliability.
• Verdant , broadening our energy management and optimization 
capabilities for multifamily residential and commercial applications.
• American Governor Company , building our technology capabilities 
and expertise in the renewable hydroelectric power industry.
• Progea Group , expanding our robust embedded software and 
control portfolio for manufacturing, infrastructure and building 
automation applications.
• 7AC Technologies, Inc. , growing our legacy heating, ventilation  
and air conditioning capabilities to enable commercial building 
owners and retailers to achieve better energy efficiency and air quality.
Our customers are prioritizing 
opportunities to enhance their 
environmental sustainability and 
reach Top Quartile performance, while 
reducing costs across their operations.
OSI Inc. campus2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT19
PLANETEnergy Source 
Decarbonization: 
Supporting Low  
Carbon Commitments 
Emerson’s solutions 
can play a critical role in 
helping our customers 
meet and exceed emerging 
environmental sustainability 
regulatory requirements.  Our customers are identifying 
and implementing strategies 
for lowering emissions by 
transitioning to cleaner power  
and fuel alternatives —  
a core element of most 
decarbonization strategies 
across most industrial sectors. 
One example is biomethane 
injection into the natural 
gas stream used to generate electricity, which is helping 
companies meet regulatory 
requirements and contribute 
toward the European Union’s 
renewable energy targets. 
Emerson’s scalable, smart and 
integrated systems and solutions 
help natural gas operators 
comply with current legislation 
and lower life cycle costs.HOMES  
OUTSIDE  
TORONTO, 
ONTARIO   
IN CANADA   
that will have 
heating and 
appliances 
powered by 
converting 
electricity into 
hydrogen, which 
is blended into 
the natural gas 
system, a  
first-of-its-kind  
program in 
North America 
led by Enbridge, 
Emerson and 
Lakeside Controls, 
an Emerson 
Impact Partner.3,600
Accelerating the Move to Hydrogen 
Global attention on hydrogen as an alternative fuel is increasing, and Emerson  
is positioned to impact the development of the hydrogen economy  
at scale. For example, our Automation Solutions portfolio provides products  
and solutions to hydrogen original equipment manufacturers in the U.K.  
We are supporting Haskel — a global manufacturer of turnkey hydrogen  
refueling stations — with their aim to build 6-10 refueling stations in one year.  
We are also working closely with CMB.TECH to help them develop marine  
vessels powered by hydrogen.
Turning Waste Into Renewable Gas 
For years, regulations in the United States have provided financial 
incentives to capture pollutants like methane gas from landfills, 
livestock operations, wastewater treatment and other sources. 
Emerson’s Vilter compressors and other equipment are used to  
do exactly that — they capture waste gas, clean it, dehydrate,  
remove CO2 and other trace gases and pressurize it to inject  
into natural gas pipelines. 
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT20
PLANETEnergy Efficiency  
and Optimization:  
Helping HVACR Industries 
Meet Energy Efficiency  
and Refrigerant Regulations
Our customers in the heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning  
and refrigeration (HVACR) 
industries are moving toward lower global warming potential (GWP) 
gases to fulfill increased regulations 
of refrigerants. Emerson is 
contributing innovative products, 
solutions and educational 
programs to help customers 
through the complexities of 
this transition to lower GWP 
refrigerants while meeting energy 
efficiency requirements.
For example, Emerson’s 
Copeland™ scroll compressors 
are specifically designed for 
lower-GWP refrigerants and 
increased energy efficiency, 
which benefit the commercial 
and residential air conditioning 
and refrigeration industry. 
Copeland CO2 refrigeration 
scroll compressors reduce 
GHG emissions by using CO2 
instead of other refrigerants. 
Copeland variable speed scroll 
compressors increase efficiency 
in residential HVAC systems by matching the load with variable 
speed compression, enabling 
homeowners to save up to 40%  
on annual energy costs. 
Emissions Management: 
Diverting Waste 
from Landfills 
Emissions management refers to 
technologies that help prevent 
or reduce the release of GHG 
and fugitive emissions to the 
environment during production, 
transport or storage processes, 
once the emission has been 
generated. Waste-to-energy is 
one of the most effective means 
of reducing CO2 emissions, and 
Emerson solutions play a crucial 
role in this sector. For example, 
we provided control systems and 
project services for a waste-to-
energy power plant in North 
Yorkshire, U.K. The plant, which 
also incorporates biogas and recycling facilities, produces  
28 megawatt-hours of electricity  
per hour from 320,000 tons of 
waste. Diverting this waste away  from the landfill means it can  
be used to generate enough 
energy to power the equivalent  
of 40,000 homes.Preventing Fugitive Emissions 
Oil and gas producers are working to measure, reduce and report 
their GHG, volatile organic compounds and hazardous air pollutant 
emissions. When it comes to fugitive emissions — leaks or unintended 
releases of gases or vapors — valves may account for more than 60%. 
Emerson’s high-performance sealing technologies help reduce fugitive 
emissions, enabling our customers to comply with environmental 
regulations, prevent the loss of product and revenue and be better 
environmental stewards.
Reducing Energy through Emerson’s Sensi™
Our ENERGY STAR®-certified smart thermostat technology can reduce 
consumers’ energy usage by about 23%. In 2020, Emerson’s Sensi was 
the first smart thermostat brand to be named an ENERGY STAR Partner 
of the Year, the highest level of recognition by the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency for organizations making outstanding contributions 
to protecting the environment through energy efficiency achievements. 
Learn more at Sensi.emerson.com/savings . 
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT21
PLANETHydro Quebec, a large power 
utility in eastern Canada, 
on a solution that combines 
our industrial compressors 
with our measurement and 
control expertise, to provide 
new, sustainable heat pump 
technology. The heat pump 
will deliver large capacity 
heating, cooling and hot water 
to commercial buildings, with 
Hydro Quebec providing power 
from renewable sources. This 
technology will ultimately be 
deployed to buildings, helping 
infrastructure owners decrease 
operational energy costs and 
reduce carbon emissions.In Europe, our heat pumps are 
contributing to the goals set 
out in the Europe 2020 plan, 
specifically the energy directive 
to reach a 20% renewables 
target. And in China, the same 
energy-efficient technology 
is providing efficient heat in 
low ambient temperatures, 
reducing reliance on coal-fired 
heating plants and decreasing 
greenhouse gas emissions. 
Another way we incorporate 
electrification is through 
refrigerated transport trucks, 
supporting the cold chain 
industry (see more on Page 26 ).
Expanding Electrification with OSI  Inc.
Our acquisition of OSI Inc. complements Emerson’s robust software 
portfolio and ability to help electric power customers, among others, 
transform and digitize operations to incorporate renewable energy 
sources more seamlessly and improve energy efficiency and reliability.Emerson provided the plant’s 
automation design, installation, 
commissioning, start-up, and 
on-site operator training. 
Proven in waste-to-energy 
facilities globally, our Ovation™ 
distributed control system 
monitors and controls the plant’s boiler, flue gas treatment and 
balance-of-plant processes and 
equipment. As a result, the 
facility is reducing the amount  
of household waste going to 
landfill in the county by 90%.
To learn more about our food 
waste efforts, please see Page 26 .
Electrification: Providing 
Heat Pump Technology
Electrification refers to the 
process of replacing technologies 
that use fossil fuels with 
technologies that use electricity 
as a source of energy. For 
example, when combined with 
clean electricity, heat pumps can 
provide a sustainable solution 
to indoor climatization and 
hot water needs. Emerson is 
currently collaborating with 
Enabling Carbon Capture 
Our advanced automation technology is helping to maximize 
production efficiency, reduce GHG and pollutant emissions, and 
enable carbon capture and storage. Operated by ADNOC Onshore, 
Abu Dhabi’s Al Reyadah facility is home to the world’s first fully 
commercial CO2 capture facility for the iron and steel industry, and 
the first commercial-scale carbon capture plant in the Middle East.  
In addition to the facility using a wide range of Emerson technologies — 
such as our control system, instrumentation and valves — our engineers 
have played a pivotal role in deployment. The facility, which is critical  
to achieving ADNOC’s environmental sustainability goals of capturing  
5 million tons of CO2 by 2025, is set to eliminate the equivalent of 
170,000 automobiles’ worth of CO2 emissions in less than five years.
Emerson’s Ovation distributed control system helps improve plant reliability and enhance resource use efficiency.2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT22
PLANET
GREENING WITH EMERSON
In 2020, we joined the European 
Commission’s European Clean 
Hydrogen Alliance. Through 
this Alliance, Emerson will be at 
the forefront of hydrogen fuel 
developments, making active 
contributions to the strategy 
while empowering key industry 
players in deploying their projects 
and thus actively supporting the 
European Commission’s plan to 
reach net-zero emissions by 2050. place in Langenfeld, Germany and 
virtually. Participants included 
experts and decision-makers in the 
energy sector, such as Mitsubishi, 
Vinci Energies, UNIPER, Steag and 
Infinite Fuels, who came together 
to discuss current and future trends 
in the energy market.
Another way Emerson partners 
closely with the industry is through 
World Refrigeration Day. Each year, we host informational webinars 
on the application and regulation 
of refrigerants. As regulations 
continue to evolve, Emerson 
engages with global industry 
associations, original equipment 
manufacturers and chemical 
companies to determine the best 
low-GWP refrigerant options for 
HVACR applications.We are also hosting a series of 
online Green Innovation Days 
for more than 3,000 customers. 
Emerson colleagues across 
the enterprise explain how our 
technologies and solutions help 
customers reduce emissions and 
become more energy efficient, 
make the transition to renewable 
power sources, and maximize 
the use of lower cost waste and 
alternative fuel sources.Emerson is proactively engaging 
externally with stakeholders to support 
environmental sustainability efforts by 
partnering to develop innovative solutions, 
participating in industry and customer 
initiatives and sharing our expertise to 
shape future policy developments globally.
We also joined the European Raw 
Material Alliance (ERMA), allowing 
us to participate in conversations 
about resource availability with 
policymakers, peers and other 
stakeholders. This membership 
will help Emerson understand 
long-term trends at all stages of 
the raw materials value chain that 
may impact our business.
We also held our first Sustainable 
Energy Roundtable, which took Collaborating with Universities Around the World
One way we’re developing innovative and environmentally sustainable solutions is through partnerships  
with world-renowned universities and research institutions. 
• National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL),  
United States: Emerson is collaborating with NREL  
to improve the efficiency of HVACR ecosystems. 
• Texas A&M University, United States:  
Emerson is supporting Texas A&M with education  
for optimizing operations to minimize energy  
and carbon emissions. 
• University of Cambridge, U.K.: Emerson is  
sponsoring Ph.D. engineering students at the 
University of Cambridge, who are contributing to 
cutting-edge solutions for industrial decarbonization 
challenges. We’re also piloting the University’s 
resource efficiency methodology and participating  
in multi-stakeholder research projects. • The Energy and Resources Institute-School  
of Advanced Studies (TERI-SAS), India:   
Emerson signed an MOU with TERI-SAS to 
collaborate on projects related to micro-grid 
structures and hydrogen to advance energy 
efficiency and decarbonization. 
• University of Dayton, United States: For more  
than four decades, Emerson has partnered with  
the University of Dayton, including opening the  
Helix Innovation Center — a 40,000-square-foot  
facility located on campus that provides  
a collaborative environment for researchers, 
academia and industry professionals to develop 
solutions to HVACR challenges.
HUMANITY
We strive to advance 
health, comfort, food 
quality and safety.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT24
HUMANITY
INDUSTRY STEWARDSHIP
Our talented global workforce 
combines this passion for problem 
solving and innovation to deliver 
advanced technologies, software 
and services that enhance 
productivity, efficiency and  
safety for our customers and  
our communities.
COVID-19 Response Efforts
Never has our role in supporting 
the industries fundamental to 
modern life been so apparent 
as in the face of the COVID-19 
pandemic. With the safety of 
Emerson’s 83,500 employees 
top of mind, we were constantly 
evaluating and implementing 
the steps necessary to support 
the essential industries relying on 
our services and solutions as they 
adapted and responded to the 
global crisis: life sciences, food and 
beverage, chemical, power and 
energy, among others. PROTECTING ESSENTIAL WORKERS
The pandemic radically 
transformed day-to-day life for 
workers around the world — from 
the medical professionals on 
the front lines of the crisis, to 
the other essential employees 
who had to adapt their practices 
to ensure safety. Emerson’s 
3D printing and Branson 
ultrasonic welding technologies 
helped customers accelerate 
production of critical personal 
protective equipment for medical 
professionals, including masks, 
face shield components, hygiene 
gowns and filter media. And our 
remote servicing and automation 
technologies helped employees 
in essential industries like 
water, power and energy social 
distance while keeping facilities 
operational and preserving 
electricity and safe water in 
homes, hospitals and businesses. Emerson takes seriously our 
responsibility to support the critical 
industries we serve as they provide 
the essentials people need to live safe, 
healthy lives across the globe — even 
in the face of immense challenges.ENABLING PATIENT CARE
Our technologies and solutions 
helped accelerate and enhance 
the care required for COVID-19 
patients. To meet medical device 
needs in hospitals and health 
care facilities, we prioritized 
production of valves, filters 
and regulator technologies, 
which helped power equipment 
such as sterilizers, hematology 
equipment, and oxygen  
therapy and supply devices.  
We also deployed our advanced 
compressors and control 
technologies to help “pop-up” 
emergency facilities and testing 
sites safely store medication 
and regulate temperature and 
humidity levels. 2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT25
HUMANITY
HELPING COMMUNITIES IN NEED 
We moved quickly to support 
communities around the world 
experiencing uncertainty and 
upheaval because of COVID-19. 
Our company and employees 
donated critical PPE to health 
care providers and, to strengthen 
our hometown community, we 
provided expanded financial 
support to address food, housing, 
health care, mental health, senior 
care and child care needs in our 
headquarters location of St. Louis. 
In addition, as schools worked to 
adapt to new learning formats in 
the fall, we delivered more than 
7,000 STEM activity kits to local 
elementary and middle schools to 
provide students with hands-on 
learning opportunities.Accelerating Pharmaceutical Development and Delivery 
Using our automation expertise and cold chain technology, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers are better able to 
maintain safety and quality and get life-saving medications and equipment to market more quickly and safely than ever before. SUPPORTING TESTING 
AND VACCINES
As the world strived to slow —  
and end — the pandemic, demand 
grew for COVID-19 testing kits 
and a safe vaccine. Our Copeland 
compressors and condensing 
units helped manufacturers 
quickly adapt production lines 
to develop critical supplies, 
including temperature-sensitive 
test kits, and our cargo monitoring 
solutions helped ensure their safe 
delivery. In addition, our DeltaV 
distributed control system and 
technologies helped biotech and 
pharmaceutical manufacturers 
produce materials and expand 
manufacturing for vaccine 
production — in every step from 
the clinical trial process to large-
scale production and distribution.• With 30 locations and nearly 1,000 project 
engineering and consulting employees  dedicated  
to active life sciences projects around the world, Emerson 
represents the automation industry’s largest dedicated 
life sciences engineering and consulting organization. 
• Our Automation Solutions business has more than 
3,000 installed systems  in life science sites globally, 
including at all the top 20 science and pharmaceutical 
manufacturing companies. • Each year, more than 300,000 Emerson sensors  help 
the global health care and pharmaceutical supply chain 
capture 8 billion data points to help maintain quality  
and safety. 
• Our data protects the delivery of medical goods and 
supplies for approximately 900 health care customers  —  
including some of the largest hospitals in the world.23% savings  
on HVAC energy 
consumption
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
26
HUMANITY
Emerson technology is helping 
maintain food safety and quality 
from farm to fork. 
COLD CHAIN
Our energy-efficient cold chain 
technologies increase visibility 
throughout the global cold chain, 
from refrigerated transport trucks, 
to food distribution warehouses, 
to food retailers. Customers 
can monitor and regulate 
temperatures for perishable  Ensuring Human 
Comfort and Health 
Emerson solutions are helping 
heat and cool homes and 
businesses around the world  
more efficiently. 
SENSI™ SOLUTIONS
Our Sensi™ suite of smart home 
solutions is helping customers 
control and achieve heating  foods as they’re shipped over 
thousands of miles of land 
and ocean — helping increase 
visibility and reduce the  
amount of food wasted.
INSINKERATOR TECHNOLOGIES
Emerson studies show the 
amount of food scraps and 
leftovers from home and 
commercial kitchens decline 
30% per week when food waste 
disposers are used — and our 
InSinkErator system has kept  
80 million tons of food waste  
out of landfills. In addition,  
since 2014, U.S. commercial 
kitchens have been able to 
divert 100 million pounds of 
food waste through Emerson’s 
Grind2Energy system —  
which leverages our grinder 
technology to convert food  
waste into renewable energy. Protecting Food Quality 
and Environmental 
Sustainability 
An estimated 30% of food is 
wasted along the supply chain, 
according to the UN Food 
and Agriculture Organization. 
This troubling trend was only 
exacerbated by the pandemic , 
which saw steep increases in food 
waste as restaurants closed their 
doors and global supply chains 
saw perishable food bottlenecks. and cooling efficiency targets  
in homes and businesses.  
In 2020, Sensi smart thermostats 
became the first thermostat 
brand named as ENERGY STAR 
Partner of the Year, the highest 
level of recognition by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency 
for organizations protecting  
the environment through energy 
efficiency achievements —  a recognition that was received 
again in 2021. In fact, Sensi 
thermostats can save users about 
23% on HVAC energy consumption 
by adjusting the temperature 
using flexible scheduling, remote 
access and geofencing.We’re helping 
customers prevent 
exposure to cyber 
incidents and 
empower workers 
with the knowledge, 
behaviors and tools 
to reduce threats.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
27
HUMANITY
We also expanded our Plantweb™ 
Optics asset performance platform 
with augmented reality (AR) 
technology to provide industrial plant 
workers greater access to real-time 
diagnostics, analytics and remote 
assistance. This enhancement 
is helping them monitor asset 
health and improve productivity, 
collaboration and operational 
performance from safer locations, 
instead of potentially hazardous or 
remote plant environments. The 
new Optics platform is part of the 
Plantweb digital ecosystem, which 
was recognized in 2020 as Edison 
Award’s winner in the “Innovative 
Services” category.
CYBERSECURITY
As virtual environments become 
the norm and customers integrate 
more IoT technologies in their businesses, we’re helping them 
prevent exposure to cyber incidents 
and empower workers with the 
knowledge, behaviors and tools to 
reduce threats. Using our expertise 
and solutions, customers are building 
and applying robust defensive 
strategies to ward off attackers and 
stay in control of their facilities. 
Emerson experts are providing key 
insights to the industries we serve as 
well. Peter Zornio, chief technology 
officer for our Automation Solutions 
business, joined cybersecurity firm 
Dragos’ CEO to co-host a webinar 
on the cybersecurity priorities 
of digital transformation — an 
increasingly important topic as 
industries accelerate their digital 
transformation priorities amid the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
CYBERSECURITY WITHIN EMERSON 
Emerson’s cybersecurity program 
aligns to the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology 
Cybersecurity Framework . Our 
primary data centers and parts of 
our Enterprise IT organization are • Follows standards such 
as the American National 
Standards Institute and the 
International Organization for 
Standardization for warnings 
and instructions. 
• Includes requirements  
for training. 
Product Safety training occurs 
through on-site training at Emerson 
businesses and biennial corporate 
Product Safety Conferences. In 2020, 
we conducted seven online product 
safety training sessions or webinars. Enabling Safety and Security
Using our software and other 
technologies, customers are 
increasing worker safety and 
protecting the integrity of  
their business.
WORKER SAFETY
Emerson’s Location Awareness 
technology uses battery-powered 
anchors and rechargeable personnel 
location tags to help our customers 
monitor worker safety in real time 
and address more than 70% of 
common personnel-recordable 
incidents. In 2020, we enhanced 
this offering to include social 
density management and contact 
tracing to protect employee  
health and help essential industries 
safely continue operations while 
social distancing.aligned to and audited based on ISO 
27001, an international standard 
on how to manage information 
security. Our businesses also pursue 
separate certifications on ISO 27001 
and additional frameworks such 
as ISA 62443 and SOC2. We have 
information security policies and 
procedures in place, and employees 
participate in annual cybersecurity 
training. On a quarterly basis, our 
Chief Information Security Officer 
briefs Emerson’s Board of Directors 
on information security matters. 
PRODUCT SAFETY 
Emerson has a product safety 
program with oversight from a 
Corporate Product Safety Team 
and Product Safety organizations 
located at each business within our 
company. Based on a Corporate 
Product Safety Policy, the program: 
• Requires product design 
reviews with safety and risk 
analysis considerations. 
• Ensures reviews and meetings 
by Product Safety Committees. In the occasional event of a 
product recall, Emerson follows 
rules established by government 
authorities. We manufacture and 
sell tens of millions of products 
each year to consumer and 
commercial customers, and 
we’re proud of our excellent track 
record for product safety matters. 2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT28
HUMANITY
WORKPLACE SAFETY
I OWN SAFETY
This global, five-module series 
explores the state of safety at 
Emerson, with tips to identify 
safe and unsafe practices and 
suggestions to understand and 
assess risk and take action when 
needed. In 2020, we achieved  
more than 90% adoption across our 
global businesses, with additional 
growth expected in 2021.
VELOCITYEHS
This safety and environmental 
tool is deployed across 100% 
of all locations and enables our 
businesses to access relevant 
information, generate reports  
and derive insights to evaluate  
and prevent operational risks. 
SEND WORD NOW
Our dedicated natural disaster  
alert system has 81,000  
employees registered globally.Our safety efforts are guided by 
our Corporate Safety Council, 
composed of our top human 
resources, operations and safety 
leads for our company. The council 
meets quarterly to ensure strategy 
alignment and track progress on 
priorities, including safety education, 
prevention, trends and compliance. 
All locations have a dedicated safety 
leader, with each of our locations 
of 50 or more employees having 
a health and safety committee 
operating at the local level, which 
includes representation from  One of our core Values, Safety & Quality, 
is at the foundation of everything we do.
Our World Safety Day celebrations looked different this year, and Emerson employees around 
the world commemorated the importance of workplace safety with location-specific curricula 
and tips to enhance safe practices.
Our Commercial & Residential Solutions Climate Technologies facility 
in Rayong, Thailand received the 2020 Chief Operating Officer Safety 
Award for an exemplary safety program and demonstrated performance.front-line employees, to work 
proactively in addressing health and 
safety concerns. We conduct safety 
training for all operational employees 
and management. We annually 
recognize the achievements of 
locations in safety performance with 
Safety Leadership Awards, including 
our Chief Operating Officer Safety 
Award given to the location with 
outstanding safety performance  
and culture programs.
We believe every incident may be 
preventable, and we aim to reduce 
and further eliminate the risk of 
serious injuries through focused  
and intentional action. The following 
initiatives implemented or enhanced 
in 2020 represent our continued 
commitment: 2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT29
HUMANITY
HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
In 2020, our workplace injury 
rate decreased by 24% compared 
to the previous year. There were 
zero recordable injuries at more 
than 60% of our locations. We measure health and safety 
performance across all our facilities  
to help ensure continuous improvement 
and high standards in every facility. 
Note: Emerson health and safety information shown above excludes discontinued operations as of fiscal 2018.
*Excludes an isolated foodborne illness incident at a single global location.Emerson Global Health and Safety Performance
TOTAL RECORDABLE  
RATE OF INJURIES’160.54
’170.46
’18 ’190.470.58
0.45*
’200.34
RECORDABLE INJURIES496
’19 ’20290
’16365
’17304
’18345385*
LOST OR RESTRICTED  
WORKDAY CASES RATE’200.18
’160.34
’170.28
’190.29
’180.28
FIRST-AID CASES’201,011
’162,463
’17 ’18 ’192,466
1,5232,307
REDUCTION  
IN OVERALL  
TOTA L 
RECORDABLE  
RATE OF  
INJURIES   
since 2014. 38%CHAMPION
We lead our customers 
through complex  
technical, regulatory and 
economic challenges.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT31
CHAMPION
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Lal Karsanbhai, who began his career with Emerson in 1995, brings 
significant industry and company experience to the Board and to his new 
role as CEO. Mr. Karsanbhai is fluent in Portuguese, French and English, 
and he has lived and worked in Europe, Africa and North America. 
interests of all the company’s 
shareholders. The Board selects 
and oversees the members of 
senior management, to whom 
the Board delegates the authority 
and responsibility for the day-to-
day operations of the business. 
The Board also provides guidance 
and oversight regarding the 
management of the company 
and is responsible for establishing 
significant company policies, 
overseeing compliance with those 
policies and approving significant 
company transactions. 
Board of Directors Policies 
Emerson’s principles and 
practices are driven by its Board 
of Directors, which ensures these 
foundational elements are shaped Our commitment to addressing 
environmental, social and 
governance issues in partnership 
with our stakeholders is vital. 
dedicated to high standards  
of corporate governance to 
ensure our company acts 
responsibly and in accordance  
with its broader Purpose. 
Board of Directors 
Members of Emerson’s Board  
of Directors  are elected by 
shareholders to provide oversight 
and strategic guidance to 
senior management. The core 
responsibility of the Board is 
to exercise its fiduciary duty to 
act diligently and in the best From our Board of Directors and 
executive leadership team to  
our employees and suppliers,  
we expect all those who  
represent Emerson to uphold  
these important commitments 
and demonstrate the highest 
levels of integrity as we work 
together to serve our customers 
and industries.
As part of our commitment to 
maintaining and developing  
the trust and confidence of 
our stakeholders, Emerson is OF DIRECTORS  
are women, 
persons of color 
or of a diverse 
nationality.50%by highly independent, diverse 
viewpoints and deep management 
expertise. Our Board’s 
composition and operations  
are guided by the following: 
INDEPENDENCE 
The majority of Board members 
must remain independent, and 
this independence is confirmed at 
least annually. Emerson’s Board 
includes 11 independent members 
and just one inside director, 
Emerson’s Chief Executive Officer 
Lal Karsanbhai. Our Director 
Independence Standards are contained in Annex II to our 
Corporate Governance Principles 
and Practices. 
COMPOSITION 
Board members must bring  
senior management experience  
in business, government or other 
relevant organizations. We seek 
a diversity of viewpoints on our 
Board that helps us to understand 
and anticipate changes in our 
business environment, as well  
as ethnic and gender diversity.  
To further advance diversity, 
equity and inclusion within  
both the Board and company,  
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT32
CHAMPIONthe Board formed a Diversity 
Council comprised of 14 senior-
level Emerson executives in 2020. 
COMMITTEES 
To provide sustained, specialized 
and in-depth oversight in certain 
areas, Emerson’s Board of 
Directors has five committees: 
Audit, Compensation, Corporate 
Governance and Nominating, 
Executive, and Finance.  
More information about our  
Board committees and their 
charters is available in the 
Corporate Governance  section  
of Emerson.com. 
INDEPENDENT BOARD CHAIR 
In May 2021, the Board voted  
to name a new, independent  
Chair to enhance the Board’s 
oversight and independence. 
Chief Executive Officer Lal Karsanbhai will continue to serve 
as the only inside director on 
the Board. In its annual Proxy  
Statement , Emerson publishes  
the manner in which shareholders 
can communicate with 
any director, including the 
Independent Board Chair. 
Recent Corporate 
Governance Actions 
The Corporate Governance 
and Nominating Committee 
periodically reviews the 
company’s governance principles 
and practices based on feedback 
from shareholders, industry  
trends and risks and opportunities 
facing the company. 
When the committee determines 
any such changes are necessary,  
it recommends the changes to 
the full Board to approve any required policy amendments. 
As a result of this review, the 
company took the following 
corporate governance actions: 
BOARD REFRESHMENT 
AND DIVERSITY 
Recently, we added two new 
members to the Board, William H. 
(Bill) Easter III, former Chairman, 
President and CEO of DCP 
Midstream and Lal Karsanbhai, 
our new CEO. Over the last four 
years, Emerson has added six new 
directors to the Board — four of 
which have diverse backgrounds. 
Our average director tenure is  
6.2 years. 
ENHANCED ESG OVERSIGHT
We amended the Corporate 
Governance and Nominating 
Committee charter to emphasize 
its role in overseeing important 
public policy issues and issues  of corporate social responsibility, 
including health, safety and 
environmental and sustainability 
policies and reporting.
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
FINANCIAL EXPERTS 
In 2020, the Board determined 
that three members of the Audit 
Committee are Audit Committee 
Financial Experts under SEC rules. 
GHG REDUCTION TARGETS 
Emerson recently announced  
a commitment to reduce  
GHG emissions by 20%, 
normalized to sales, by 2028.  We also formed the Environmental 
Sustainability Steering Committee 
to further our environmental 
sustainability efforts. 
SHAREHOLDER RESPONSIVENESS 
In 2020, we again proposed to 
amend our Restated Articles  
to declassify our Board of Directors  
in response to shareholder input. 
REDUCED BOARD COMPENSATION 
Emerson reduced compensation  
to directors during the height  
of the COVID-19 pandemic. PROXY ACCESS BYLAW
In November 2020, we further 
improved our proxy access bylaw 
to remove a limitation on the 
number of proxy access nominees 
that was based on our classified 
Board structure.
William H. (Bill) Easter III brings  
35 years of industrial knowledge  
and expands the range of 
perspectives on the Board. 
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORTCHAMPION 33Risk Management 
and Oversight 
The Board has responsibility 
for the oversight of Emerson’s 
risk management process. This 
process is designed to provide 
to the Board timely visibility into 
the identification, reporting, 
assessment and management of 
critical risks. The Audit Committee 
has specific responsibility 
for assisting the Board in risk 
management, including major 
financial risk exposures and the 
steps management has taken to 
monitor, mitigate and control 
such exposures, as well as an 
annual review of the company’s 
environmental activities, audits 
and expenditures. 
The Corporate Governance 
and Nominating Committee is 
responsible for assisting the Board 
in the oversight of the company’s 
conflict of interest policies, codes 
of ethics, ESG, political activities 
and compliance with laws and 
regulations, including oversight  of the company’s political  
spending activities. 
The formal annual risk assessment 
process includes surveys of all 
business unit presidents and 
interviews with all business 
leaders, corporate functional 
leaders and members of the Office 
of the Chief Executive. In addition, 
the employee responsible for 
mitigating the risk and the 
mitigation plan and timeline 
helps ensure relevant findings 
are documented. The full Board, 
or the appropriate committee, 
receives this risk assessment 
information annually to enable 
it to understand and monitor 
Emerson’s risk management 
process. Information brought to 
the attention of the committees  
is shared with the full Board  
as appropriate. 
Ongoing risk assessments in 
various areas are also conducted 
as part of Emerson’s normal 
management process, and the 
results of those assessments are shared with the Board or 
relevant committee as needed 
throughout the year. This could 
include potential issues such as 
ethics or human rights violations, 
environmental risks, etc. 
Political Participation 
Emerson’s shareholders, 
employees and customers  
are affected by public policies  
at all levels of government.  
To protect shareholder value, 
Emerson engages with public 
officials to educate them on our 
company’s operations, emerging 
technologies and markets. Further 
information about Emerson’s 
policies and procedures for 
political participation, including 
political spending, lobbying, 
details of such expenditures 
and links to recent LD-2, LD-203 
and Missouri Ethics Commission 
reports can be found on the 
Political Contributions  and  
Trade Associations and Lobbying  
pages of the Emerson website.2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT34
CHAMPION
INTEGRITY & ETHICS  
We remain steadfast in our ongoing pursuit of ethical behavior and legal compliance.  
This uncompromising commitment fuels our Purpose and guides our path forward. 
documentation and reporting 
channels in which employees are 
encouraged to escalate questions or 
concerns. The program is updated 
annually to ensure consistency with 
the current business environment 
and industries in which we operate. 
New employees are welcomed 
to the program during their 
onboarding, and current employees 
and leaders are refreshed on the 
program through annual trainings. 
Employee Code of Conduct 
Our Employee Code of Conduct  
handbook, “The Right Way,” 
serves as the foundation for how 
Emerson and our employees 
conduct business around the 
world. The latest version is available to all employees and the 
public at Emerson.com/ethics  and 
has been translated into more 
than 20 languages. Supplemental 
ethical guidelines are also 
provided to executive officers and 
members of the Board of Directors 
— and available to the public — to 
address the special responsibilities 
of these leaders.CEO and Senior Financial 
Officer Code of Ethics 
Our company’s most senior 
leaders adhere to the CEO  
and Senior Financial Officers  
Code of Ethics , which outlines 
expectations including exhibiting 
and promoting integrity, and 
providing accurate and timely 
financial reporting. At Emerson, all employees and leaders 
are expected to uphold high standards  
of honest and ethical behavior,  
to not only cultivate trust among 
one another, but with our customers, 
suppliers and communities. 
This program is overseen by 
the Corporate Governance and 
Nominating Committee of the 
Board of Directors. Our Ethics  
and Compliance program takes  
a comprehensive approach 
through monitoring, investigation 
and evaluation — merging three 
core functional areas including 
Human Resources, Audit and 
Compliance and Law. 
We communicate our program 
to employees through trainings, As an essential business 
supporting COVID-19 relief, 
it’s more critical than ever we 
view every action through this 
unwavering ethical lens. 
Despite a continuously changing 
environment, we remain steadfast  
in our commitment to maintain 
ethical conduct and legal 
compliance — and clearly define  
policies and practices for 
employees through our Ethics  
and Compliance program.  2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT35
CHAMPIONACHIEVED   
A NEAR 100%  
COMPLETION  
RATE   
of our annual 
ethics training  
in 2020.~100%Employees are provided with several 
avenues to escalate ethics concerns, 
including our Ethics Reporting 
website and Ethics hotline number. 
Both channels are operated by  
an independent third party and 
provide the option for employees  
to remain anonymous. 
Review and Resolution 
of Ethics Concerns 
Reports of ethics issues are handled 
by a limited number of experienced 
and specialized Emerson 
management personnel. Significant 
ethics allegations, of which Emerson 
has a set criterion, are required to 
be reported directly to the Chief 
Ethics Officer and Chief Compliance 
Officer. Emerson’s ethics review and 
resolution program is reviewed by 
internal and external auditors on an 
annual basis.
Conflict of Interest 
Evaluation and Reporting 
Conflicts of interest are taken 
seriously at Emerson. Employees Annual Ethics Trainings 
To help ensure comprehension of 
our Employee Code of Conduct, all 
employees are required to complete 
our company’s ethics training each 
year. The training is offered in person 
and online, with several interactive 
components and an evaluation at the 
end. While we prioritize in-person 
training when possible, online 
training is also offered to ensure  
we reach our remote workforces.
Ethics Hotline and 
Reporting Process 
Our ethics reporting process 
provides employees with clear steps 
on how to report unethical behavior 
while ensuring the protection of their 
employment status. We are fully 
committed to safeguarding  
against retaliation or harassment  
of whistleblowers. complete an annual questionnaire 
to identify potential conflicts of 
interest between the company 
and any of its directors, officers 
or employees. This questionnaire 
is provided in 22 languages, and 
43,367 directors, officers and 
employees responded in 2020. All 
newly reported conflict of interest 
cases are investigated and acted 
upon within 30 days.
Compliance Risk Oversight 
On a quarterly basis, members 
of Emerson’s Compliance 
Committee meet to discuss new 
or existing compliance risks based 
on emerging trends. 
Emerson regularly engages a 
third party to review its Ethics 
and Compliance program and 
the extent to which the program 
aligns with U.S. Department of 
Justice guidelines, the Committee 
of Sponsoring Organizations 
of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO) framework and other 
leading practices.  The most recent review concluded 
that the program is aligned with 
these practices. 
Anti-Corruption Controls 
Emerson follows detailed processes 
to prevent corruption across our 
global operations. On a quarterly 
basis, all business units are required 
to certify an Internal Control 
Questionnaire, which includes 
anti-corruption controls. Emerson’s 
internal audit also annually conducts anti-corruption audits 
at locations identified as a part of 
a risk assessment. Approximately 
67,000 employees have received 
anti-corruption training over 
the past three years. To actively 
manage risk associated with 
third parties, Emerson conducts 
thorough screenings and ongoing 
risk assessments of these groups, 
giving special attention to locations 
that operate in high-risk countries 
and industries.
Areas of Compliance Risk Oversight  
at Emerson• Antitrust/Competition Law
• Anti-Corruption
• Environmental
• Data Privacy
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
• Health and Safety• People Treatment
• Product-Related 
Environmental Law
• Records Management
• Trade Compliance
Visit our website  to learn more about our commitment to the highest 
standards of ethical practices.2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT36
CHAMPION
SUPPLY CHAIN
We implement practices to help 
ensure our suppliers operate 
consistent with our values, 
acting with integrity and treating 
people and the environment 
with respect. We are committed 
to ensuring our suppliers meet 
these standards and are investing 
in our information technology 
systems and capabilities to better 
track compliance and enhance 
our continuous improvement 
efforts. By regularly evaluating 
and updating these standards and 
looking ahead to future trends,  
we have been able to maintain 
supply chain resiliency — even 
during the COVID-19 pandemic —  
while building a global supplier 
network that upholds the highest 
standards of integrity. Training Emerson 
Employees 
At Emerson, we’re striving 
to improve the processes 
that drive ethical, innovative 
and sustainable supply chain 
practices. Acting responsibly 
requires knowledge of a 
range of complex issues 
involving suppliers across 
diverse geographies, cultures 
and business practices. To 
navigate these complexities, 
Emerson’s annual ethics 
training helps managers and 
employees engage effectively 
with stakeholders as they 
communicate Emerson’s 
priorities and expectations.  In 2019, we developed a 
compliance program working 
group, comprised of both 
legal and technical team 
members, to help ensure we 
continue improving on our 
ability to recognize, report 
and support remediation of 
any compliance issues.Given Emerson’s vast global supply chain, 
we can make a significant, positive impact 
on our customers and our communities 
in partnership with our suppliers. EMERSON’S  
D I R EC T 
MATERIAL  
SPEND WITH  
SUPPLIERS  
WORLDWIDE   
in fiscal 2020.$4.2B
20,000+
EMERSON SUPPLIERS   
worldwide in fiscal 2020. 2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT37
CHAMPION
Affirming Supplier 
Responsibility 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct 
states that we expect suppliers to 
comply with principles regarding 
ethical behavior, labor practices, 
human rights and environmental 
protections. Currently, over  
one-third of the company’s supply 
chain spend is under contracts 
requiring acknowledgment of  
this clause, and we are working  
to build this percentage over time. 
We require suppliers who want 
to participate in our e-sourcing 
initiatives to acknowledge their 
understanding and compliance 
with our Supplier Code of Conduct 
before they are allowed to bid.  
We also conduct site visits of select  
new and developing suppliers as 
part of our qualification process. 
Supplier Engagement 
In 2020, we continued to 
implement our online contract 
management platform and supplier qualification module, 
enabling us to grow the 
percentage of spend under 
contract and helping to ensure 
suppliers’ acknowledgement of 
our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
The supplier qualification module 
also provides a mechanism for 
open dialogue with our suppliers 
regarding environmental, social 
and governance information.  
To evaluate our suppliers’ 
awareness of and compliance  
with our Supplier Code of 
Conduct, as well as their own 
corporate social responsibility 
policies, we conduct regular 
surveys of our top 450+ suppliers. 
Since launching our pilot survey  
in 2018, we have expanded  
the survey to include suppliers 
who account for 50% of our  
annual direct supplier spend.  
In 2021, we plan to expand this 
engagement with our suppliers  
on key ESG topics.Supply Chain ESG Focus Areas
REACH  
RoHS  
Conflict Minerals  
GHG EmissionsFocus Area ESG Group
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCEMinority or Women Owned Suppliers (U.S.)  
Diversity & Inclusion  
Forced/Child Labor  
Workplace Safety
Ethical Behavior  
Anti-Corruption  
Conflicts of Interest  
Supply Chain Security2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT38
CHAMPIONOF EMERSON  
BUSINESS  
LOCATION  
HEADQUARTERS   
participated in  
self-assessment of 
their compliance  
with key product 
materials laws,  
using enterprise  
wide standards 
formalized in 2019.97%+ Supporting Supplier 
Sustainability 
As part of our commitment to 
environmental sustainability 
across our supply chain, Emerson 
continues to encourage and 
assist suppliers along their paths 
to reducing waste, controlling 
emissions and making the world 
more sustainable. Our robust 
supply chain allows Emerson’s 
impact to span across the globe. 
To confirm each supplier lives  
up to our standards, we continue 
to share best practices, provide 
expertise to shape future policy 
developments, and help ensure 
accountability every step  
of the way. 
In 2020, to further enhance 
this commitment to both 
environmental sustainability 
and our suppliers, we made 
progress on our goal to establish 
an environmental sustainability 
council with key suppliers.  The council provides a forum 
for best practice sharing, and 
we look forward to sharing 
more soon.
We also recently trained 
Emerson colleagues to conduct 
environmental audits within 
our supply chain to help ensure 
continuity of supply and to 
identify areas of improvement 
in high-risk industries. On top 
of that, our supply chain team 
is exploring a pilot program 
to advance carbon reduction 
efforts by focusing on Scope 
3 emissions reductions 
strategies. As we look to the 
future, we are excited to unveil 
new company initiatives that 
further our progress in making 
our supply chain — and the 
world — more sustainable. 
Ethics  
Conflicts of Interest, Anti-Corruption 
• We forbid bribery and unethical gift-giving by our employees and suppliers. 
• We encourage periodic reviews with large or preferred suppliers. 
• We regularly engage with our stakeholders to determine the most effective means of confirming compliance. 
• We provide employees and business partners an Ethics Hotline in more than 80 countries in which we operate. 
Human Rights & Labor  
Employment Conditions, Prohibition of Child Labor, Forced Labor and Other Forms of Modern Slavery, 
Discrimination, Humane Treatment, Freedom to Associate, Working and Living Conditions
• We do not tolerate the use of child labor, forced labor or any other form of modern slavery.
• We fully support global efforts to eradicate human trafficking and unethical labor practices. 
• We prohibit discrimination against or harassment of any employee or applicant. 
• View our statement on the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act of 2015 .
Environment  
Operational and Product Sustainability
• We encourage business partners to reduce their environmental footprint through measuring their carbon footprint  
and reducing waste and water consumption. 
• We work with suppliers to actively manage and demonstrate compliance with laws and regulations including  
REACH, RoHS and more.
• We are members of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) , working to help ensure responsible mineral sourcing  
in supply chains. 
• View our Conflict Minerals Statement and Form SD filing: Conflict Minerals Report for the Year Ended December 31, 2020.WE EXPECT EACH SUPPLIER TO ADHERE TO OUR SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT ,  
WHICH IS BUILT ON A FOUNDATION OF:  2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT39
CHAMPION
Regional Sourcing 
As a company, we have long 
employed a regionalization 
strategy where we 
manufacture, source and 
supply within regional 
markets. These long-standing 
efforts have led to increased 
speed, cost savings and 
cashflow generation, while 
supporting local customer 
needs and regulatory 
mandates in the countries 
in which we operate. Our 
strategy provides economic 
benefits for local suppliers 
and communities within 
these world regions, as 
well as environmental 
benefits including reduced 
transportation and emissions.
* Locally booked and built refers to the percentage of Emerson orders that are built within a region and fulfilled to customers in that same region.  
Locally sourced refers to the percentage of Emerson supply chain spend for manufacturing within a region that comes from suppliers within that same region. AMERICAS  
Locally booked and built Locally booked and built Locally booked and built
Locally sourced Locally sourced Locally sourcedEU RO PE ASIA, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICAEmerson’s Regionalized Supply Chain* 
97% 95% 88%
87% 81% 88%INCLUSION
We cultivate an 
environment based on 
trust and support.
At Emerson, we champion a 
diverse culture where every 
employee is valued for their unique 
experiences and perspectives. True ingenuity comes from every 
employee feeling empowered 
to bring their most authentic 
selves to work every day, and we 
continuously invest in our people 
to support the success of Emerson 
colleagues around the globe. 
As a global organization, we 
have seen firsthand the energy 
and innovation that comes from 
encouraging and honoring diverse 
perspectives and backgrounds. 
Having an inclusive workforce that 
reflects the world and industries we 
serve is critical to living our value 
of Support Our People — and to 
honoring our Cause of Inclusion. 
To enhance our diverse 
workforce, we have committed 
to a goal as a company to 
double our representation 
of women globally and U.S. 
minorities at the leadership 
level by 2030.  This goal is critical 
and reinforces our dedication to 
removing barriers to success and 
supporting an inclusive culture. 
Emerson condemns racism and 
discrimination in all of its forms. This year, Emerson’s leadership 
team has worked in close 
partnership with our Blacks 
Reinforcing Diversity Employee 
Resource Group (ERG), as well 
as industry groups such as 
the National Association of 
Manufacturers, to identify ways  
we can promote racial equity. 
We also launched “Courageous 
Conversations,” a series of  
regional diversity, equity and 
inclusion-focused forums promoting 
open dialogue among colleagues. 
The global program provides spaces 
for employees to gather for honest, 
thought-provoking conversations, 
sharing personal perspectives and 
experiences on topics related to 
fostering equity. By creating an 
environment of openness, care 
and understanding, numerous 
employees found courage to  
share their stories across topics  
of gender, race, religion,  
ethnicity, sexual orientation,  
gender identity, disability and  
more. These experiences reveal  
the impact of bias and prejudice in the workplace, but more 
importantly, how we can combat 
these unconscious biases in our 
daily interactions.
Emerson has trained 50 
Courageous Conversation 
facilitators to empower 
employees’ vital viewpoints 
to permeate across our global 
organization. We recognize 
the work goes beyond this very 
moment, and we intend to 
continue taking action to advance 
diversity, equity and inclusion  
in the years to come.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
41
INCLUSIONDIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
Image captured during International Women’s Day celebrations in Singapore prior to the COVID-19 pandemic.AS A COMPANY,  
we have committed 
to a goal to double 
our representation  
of women globally 
and U.S. minorities  
at the leadership  
level by 2030.2xAsem Nurmakanova,  a senior 
process simulation engineer 
in Chelyabinsk, Russia, shared 
her inspiring story as part of 
Courageous Conversations in 
Europe, opening up about her 
experiences with living her 
Muslim faith. Asem is confident 
Courageous Conversations are 
having a true impact across the 
company, helping to build lasting 
connections and understanding 
between colleagues of different 
backgrounds across Europe and 
around the world. The experience 
has also reinforced her belief that 
people of all backgrounds are 
welcome at Emerson, and that all 
colleagues are empowered to be 
their true selves in the workplace. Emerson Employees  
Making an Impact:  
Celebrating Diversity with 
Courageous Conversations 
42
INCLUSION2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT43
INCLUSIONTalent Pipeline 
In 2020, we launched Diverse 
Slates, a recruitment initiative to 
build our diverse talent pipeline 
and increase representation at all 
levels of the organization, including 
in top leadership positions. Diverse 
Slates aims to increase the visibility 
of qualified women and minority 
candidates early in the talent 
acquisition process as part of the 
company’s commitment to recruit, 
develop and retain diverse talent. Among our teams, we encourage 
expanding the talent pool to 
help ensure that candidate pools 
being considered for salaried 
job openings and promotions 
incorporate diversity, equity and 
inclusion. We have also connected 
our ERGs with the talent acquisition 
function to align diverse candidate 
recruiting strategies. We are also improving our pipeline 
of diverse talent with formal 
mentorship programs to identify 
and develop women and minority 
employees who are aspiring leaders 
in the company. We understand 
the importance of mentoring 
and know employees respond 
positively when an experienced 
or more senior colleague takes 
an interest in their professional 
development and career path. 
Formal and informal mentoring 
programs are available in many 
of our business units around the 
world, and we have developed 
resources to align diversity, equity 
and inclusion as a focus area when 
identifying mentors and mentees, 
creating discussions centered 
around creating an inclusive 
workplace. This program seeks  
to expand the leadership 
competencies of high-potential 
employees and cultivate inclusion 
throughout Emerson.We engage in targeted recruiting in the following areas: 
WOMEN
Our recruitment of engineering degree graduates and Master of Business 
Administration degree recipients puts a special focus on reaching women 
candidates. In addition to our university-focused recruiting, Emerson 
continues to be a proud supporter of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE), 
the leading organization dedicated to the advancement of women engineers 
— and we recruit women engineering talent at SWE conferences and job fairs. 
MINORITIES
Emerson participates in recruiting events at universities and job fairs during 
professional societies’ annual conferences to identify qualified minority 
candidates for both entry- and executive-level positions. We remain a 
corporate supporter of the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management, 
which works with companies seeking to reduce underrepresentation of  
African Americans, Native Americans and Hispanic Americans in education  
and business. We also established a new partnership with the National  
Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) to enhance our engagement efforts  
with candidates of color.
MILITARY VETERANS
Emerson and our business units seek to provide post-military job opportunities 
for military veterans. In addition, we regularly participate in veterans-focused 
MBA recruiting events at the University of Michigan, Northwestern University, 
Harvard University and Washington University in St. Louis, and partner with 
Hiring Our Heroes, a nationwide effort to connect veterans, service members 
and military spouses with meaningful employment opportunities.
LGBTQ+
Emerson is actively engaging with LGBTQ+ organizations on recruiting 
efforts. Our LGBTQ + Allies Employee Resource Group participated in the Out 
for Undergrad Engineering Conference, featuring 250 of the top LGBTQ+ 
undergraduate engineering students in North America, in September. We are 
continuing to explore additional opportunities to engage with this and similar 
organizations to enhance our recruitment efforts.2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT44
INCLUSIONTraining and Assessment
Ongoing diversity training plays 
a critical role in promoting an 
inclusive and equitable work 
environment throughout the 
organization. Since 2017, 
more than 16,000 employees 
have participated in diversity 
awareness and unconscious bias 
training, including all upper level 
management positions. We 
continue to hold diversity training 
globally to help our employees 
recognize and manage their 
unconscious biases.
We have expanded our diversity 
training into other areas 
and regularly evaluate other 
opportunities to provide education 
and insights to build on our 
positive culture. We continue to 
provide senior leaders access to 
the Intercultural Development 
Inventory® (IDI), an online 
assessment tool that helps build cultural understanding, 
shift perspectives on diversity 
issues and appropriately adapt 
behavior to cultural differences 
and commonalities. After 
leaders complete the IDI, their 
responses are analyzed and 
reports are provided back with 
guidance on increasing cultural 
self-understanding to improve 
their own cross-cultural goals. We 
have over 430 leaders who have 
completed IDI to date. 
Employee Resource Groups
Our employee resource groups play 
an integral role in building a strong 
support network for our inclusive 
workforce, free of bias. To further 
our support for these groups,  
we launched the pilot of an  
annual ERG Leadership Summit —  
a multi-day conference where ERG 
leaders across Emerson shared best 
practices around event building, 
membership engagement and career development. The ERG 
Leadership Summit provided a 
forum to identify diversity, equity 
and inclusion initiatives and enable 
ERGs to collaborate and expand 
their networks. 
A diverse and inclusive work 
environment contributes to the 
rich exchange of ideas that inspires 
innovation and creates the best 
solutions for our customers. Our 
employee resource groups help  
us bring this belief to life every  
day, with each group led by 
passionate leaders from across  
the organization and sponsored  
by executive leadership.
ASIAN & PACIFIC 
ISLANDER ALLIANCE
Our Asian & Pacific Islander Alliance 
launched in May 2021 to provide 
a platform to amplify voices, 
spotlight contributions and foster 
relationships between our Asian 
and Pacific Islander colleagues, as well as serve as a channel for 
all colleagues to learn about the 
culture, history and experiences 
of our Asian and Pacific Islander 
brothers and sisters. 
BLACKS REINFORCING DIVERSITY
Blacks Reinforcing Diversity drives 
strategic recruiting, retention and 
advancement initiatives in support 
of corporate objectives and 
support of our Black employees.  
In 2020, the group added more 
than 100 new members and held 
more than a dozen recruiting 
events and scholarship programs. 
Members of Blacks Reinforcing 
Diversity also worked within the 
community to provide assistance 
to those impacted by COVID-19, 
organizing to raise funds for food 
banks and health care workers.
LGBTQ + ALLIES
LGBTQ + Allies empowers our 
employees in the LGBTQ+ community and their workplace 
allies to foster a diverse and 
inclusive company culture. 
This year, the group expanded 
its membership and chapter 
locations with the formal launch 
of chapters throughout the Latin 
America region. LGBTQ + Allies 
also launched a global training 
program to educate colleagues  
on allyship.
SOMOS
Somos launched  in 2020 with 
official chapters established  
in St. Louis, Austin, Houston  and Minneapolis-St. Paul.  
The group focuses on support 
and engagement initiatives on 
behalf of our Hispanic and Latin 
American employees. Recently, 
Somos has hosted a Cafecito 
webinar series where inspiring 
Latin American and Hispanic 
leaders share their experiences 
and career development advice 
with group members. More than 
300 members have joined in  
the first few months of the 
group’s initiation.“Bringing people together 
virtually through the ERGs 
has provided a real sense of 
much needed connection.” 
— Martha Arjona, ERG Leader in Costa Rica
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
45
INCLUSIONWOMEN IN STEM
Women in STEM provides support 
and networking opportunities for 
female employees in 85+ chapters 
globally. The 5,000-member group 
has worked to increase the number 
of women in leadership positions, 
host regular webinars and attract a 
new generation of women in STEM 
through partnerships with the 
Society of Women Engineers  
and a number of universities.INCREASE  
IN WOMEN  
IN STEM  
MEMBERS   
IN 2020.  22%Recognitions
In 2020, we received multiple 
honors recognizing our global 
commitment to champion 
diversity, equity and inclusion 
in our company. Forbes ranked 
Emerson as one of the Best 
Employers for Diversity. Emerson 
was recognized as one of the Best 
Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality, 
after earning a 100% score on the Human Rights Campaign’s 2021 
Corporate Equality Index. STEM 
Workforce Diversity and Women 
Engineer Magazine also named 
Emerson among their list of top 
50 employers. In the Middle East 
and Africa, we ranked as one 
of the Inclusion and Diversity 
Companies of Year at the ADIPEC 
Awards. Emerson’s Women in 
STEM resource group received 
Our women leaders are being recognized for their exceptional performance.  
Vidya Ramnath , President of Emerson for Middle East and Africa, was  
recently voted #23 in Forbes  Middle East’s 100 Power Businesswomen 2020.  
Jennie Li , Vice President and General Manager of Emerson in China, was named 
among Forbes  China Top 100 Businesswomen in 2021.the Society of Women Engineers 
Mission Award in recognition 
of the group’s partnerships. 
The National Association of 
Manufacturers also awarded two 
Emerson leaders with its STEP 
Ahead Awards, which recognizes 
women in STEM careers who 
exemplify leadership. 
U.S. VETERANS RESOURCE GROUP
Our Veterans group raises 
awareness of the value U.S. military 
veterans bring to our organization, 
with eight official chapters and 
more than 250 members. This 
year, the group welcomed new 
chapters in Riverside, California 
and McKinney, Texas. The Veterans 
Resource Group hosted its first 
cohort through Hiring Our Heroes, 
an 11-week fellowship that equips 
service members transitioning into 
civilian life with professional and 
hands-on experiences.Through these concerted  
and targeted efforts, we are  
continuing to show progress.
The percentage of  
WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS   
in our U.S. workforce has  
INCREASED BY 18% SINCE 2016.
The percentage of  
MINORITIES IN U.S. MANAGEMENT  
POSITIONS HAS INCREASED BY 30%.Emerson’s Workforce Diversity
All data is a snapshot of the Emerson business portfolio on the payroll at 
a specific point during the calendar year. For 2015-16, July 1 was utilized. 
For 2017-20, December 31 was utilized. 
The new Diversity Leadership goal will be more narrowly tailored to our 
global leadership group for women and U.S. leadership group for minorities. 
*Minorities include: Asian, American Indian or Alaska Native, Black or 
African-American, Hispanic, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, 
and two or more races.U.S. TOTAL WORKFORCE  
AGE GROUPS
30-50 YEARS OLD’16 ’17 ’18 ’19 ’2044% 43% 43% 43% 44%
< 30 YEARS OLD’16 ’17 ’18 ’19 ‘2013% 14% 15% 14% 12%> 50 YEARS OLD’1643%
’1743%
’18 ’19 ’2042% 43% 44%U.S. TOTAL WORKFORCE   
COMPOSITION
MEN’19 ’2069.0% 68.9%
’1672.1%
’1769.4%
’1869.5%
WOMEN’19 ’2031.0% 31.1%
’1627.9%
’1730.6%
’1830.5%
MINORITIES*’19 ’2028.5% 27.8%
’1623.5%
’1727.1%
’1827.4%U.S. MANAGEMENT ONLY  
COMPOSITION
MEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS’1678.8%
’1777.5%
’1876.2%
’19 ’2076.2% 75.0%
WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS’1621.2%
’1722.5%
’1823.9%
’19 ’2023.8% 25.0%
MINORITIES* IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS’1614.5%
’1716.3%
’1817.0%
’19 ’2018.3% 18.8%
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
46
INCLUSION2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT47
INCLUSIONEMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Employee Opinion  
and Culture Surveys 
Insights from our colleagues drive us 
to innovate for our customers and 
grow as an organization focused on 
cultivating and attracting the most 
talented workforce. 
Emerson has conducted 
employee opinion surveys 
for more than six decades 
to continually foster strong 
employee engagement. The 
annual survey highlights 
vital employee perspectives, 
sharing insight into employee 
engagement, satisfaction and 
work-life balance. Both salaried 
and hourly employees across 
the global organization have 
consistently rated Emerson as 
“Excellent” under our survey 
scoring categorizations. In 2020, 
we emphasized three focus areas 
for a monthly employee survey: 
engagement, COVID-19 and 
diversity. Our goal was to  
ensure employees felt secure  
and informed despite a year  Our employees are our greatest 
strength, and we continually seek 
employee feedback and provide 
avenues where employees can 
share their valuable perspective. 
of global uncertainty. For each 
area, employees gave scores 
above the “Excellent” threshold 
throughout the year. 
Labor Relations 
We respect our employees’ 
right to freedom of association 
in choosing labor organizations 
to represent them. We work 
collaboratively to keep positive 
relationships with the unions, works councils and employee 
associations that represent many 
of our employees. In the United 
States, approximately 6% of our 
workforce was unionized as of 
2020. Worldwide, approximately 
30% of our employees are 
represented by an employee 
representative organization,  
such as a union, works council  
or employee association. 
Employee Opinion Survey Highlights
11,800+ EMPLOYEES   
invited to complete the survey 
90%+ TOTAL PARTICIPATION  
2020 Focus Areas  
Global Engagement:  
“EXCELLENT” FOR ALL EMPLOYEES
Global COVID-19:   
“EXCELLENT” FOR ALL EMPLOYEES  
Global Diversity:  
“EXCELLENT” FOR ALL EMPLOYEES  2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT48
INCLUSIONWages and Benefits 
At Emerson, we work to retain 
and grow our exceptional global 
workforce. We seek to uphold our 
value of Support Our People by 
providing competitive wages and 
benefits in the local markets where 
we operate around the world. Our 
compensation practices comply 
with applicable wage laws and 
international standards, including 
those relating to minimum 
wages, overtime compensation 
and legally mandated benefits. 
The basis on which workers are 
paid is documented in a timely manner via pay stub or similar 
written communication. In the 
United States, we offer a standard 
benefits package for full-time 
employees that includes health 
care, life insurance, disability 
coverage, paid parental leave and 
access to a retirement savings 
program. In other countries, our 
benefits packages for full-time 
employees vary in accordance with 
legal mandates, but all include 
paid parental leave. This year, we 
added telehealth coverage to 
help employees continue seeking 
medical attention and care safely 
amid the COVID-19 pandemic. PAID PARENTAL LEAVE 
Having a work-life balance and 
ample family time is critical to our 
employees’ well-being. Our paid 
leave policy for new parents across 
our company outlines time off not 
by gender roles but by determining 
the primary caregiver. When 
welcoming a new child into the 
home through birth or adoption, 
Emerson employees who identify 
as primary caregiver receive 12 
consecutive weeks of paid parental 
leave with 100% pay upon the 
birth or adoption. Employees who 
wish to support their spouses 
or partners during this time as a secondary caregiver can receive 
two weeks of paid parental leave, 
which must be taken within six 
months of the birth or adoption. 
In countries where the minimum 
standards of applicable law exceed 
our new policies, Emerson complies 
with the law.
Discrimination and 
Harassment 
We value the contributions of all 
employees and do not tolerate  
any discrimination or harassment. 
This is reinforced in our annual 
ethics training that is required  
for all employees. 
Emerson is an equal opportunity 
employer, committed to recruit, 
hire, train and promote people in 
all job classifications without regard 
to sex, race, color, religion, national 
origin, age, marital status, political 
affiliation, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, genetic 
information, disability or protected 
veteran status. We do not condone any form of discrimination or 
harassment on the basis of these 
and other protected classes. 
Human Rights 
In our business operations  
around the world, Emerson 
remains deeply committed to 
respect and promote human 
rights, which are essential to a 
healthy and vital commercial 
environment and to the 
broader society. This entails 
specific attention to particularly 
challenging issues and  
activities, including: 
COMMITMENT TO 
HUMANE TREATMENT 
We do not allow or condone 
any form of harsh or inhumane 
treatment, including sexual 
harassment, sexual abuse, 
corporal punishment, mental or 
physical coercion or verbal abuse, 
nor do we allow managers to 
threaten treatment of this nature. PROHIBITION OF FORCED LABOR 
Our policies prohibit, and we do not 
use any forced, bonded, indentured 
or other compulsory labor. We also 
prohibit our suppliers from using 
any forced, bonded, indentured or 
other compulsory labor. Our policies 
are in compliance with important 
regulations, like the UK Modern 
Slavery Act 2015. Emerson fully 
supports these and other efforts to 
eradicate human trafficking across 
the globe. 
PROHIBITION OF CHILD LABOR 
Our policies oppose child labor, 
and we do not use child labor in any 
facility or business. Emerson has 
established age 18 as a standard 
minimum age for employment, 
which complies with or exceeds local 
legal requirements. We support 
the use of legitimate workplace 
apprenticeship programs that 
conform with laws and regulations. 
We also prohibit our suppliers from 
employing anyone under the local 
legal working age. 2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT49
INCLUSIONTRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
ONLINE  
COURSES  
COMPLETED  
through our 
Global Learning 
Center in 2020.1M+
Our value of Supporting Our People 
guides our work in developing 
exceptional employees and 
leaders in our organization.Our programs equip them  
with the knowledge, skills and 
training required to reach their 
greatest potential. 
Emerson uses a holistic, integrated 
approach to training and 
development of our employees. 
Our 70/20/10 Development 
Framework provides our teams 
with the competencies and skills 
to advance their careers. Under 
this framework, work experience 
makes up 70% of an employee’s 
development; relationships 
and feedback account for 20% 
of development, helping to 
build each employee’s internal 
network; and focused training 
comprises 10% of development, 
equipping employees with relevant 
knowledge and skills. Professional Development  
As a global business, it’s imperative 
to personalize professional 
development opportunities to 
meet the individual needs of our 
employees. As such, we offer 
e-learning, virtual instructor-led 
and in-person trainings to our 
global workforce throughout the 
year; this virtual option was critical 
throughout 2020 as employees 
continued to socially distance. 
Thousands of e-learning modules 
on everything from technical 
skills to leadership tactics are 
available for all of our employees 
through our Global Learning Center 
platform. We have dedicated 
learning and development staff 
who lead in-person development 
opportunities, teaching skills  
that range from professional  
to leadership skills.  In 2020, Emerson’s Global Learning Center program  
had 63,395 unique employee sign-ups. 
Employees logged 1,122,235 hours  of online  
and in-person training, spanning the globe.2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT50
INCLUSIONLeadership Development 
Programs 
At Emerson, we offer programs that 
give our employees the skills and 
resources to build and strengthen 
their leadership and professional 
capabilities throughout their 
careers. Through our Charles F.  
Knight Learning Center staff, 
based in St. Louis, Missouri, 
we create programming for 
managers that connects training 
and developmental opportunities 
to business objectives, helping 
our employees understand their important role and enabling 
our employees to immediately 
put what they have learned 
to work. Our approach, which 
effectively differentiates Emerson 
from our peers and has been 
praised by experts on leadership 
development, helps our employees 
develop in their careers, grow their 
job satisfaction and, ultimately, 
positions Emerson as a leader in the 
marketplace. This year, we pivoted 
to virtual sessions to ensure that 
we continued to foster leadership 
during the pandemic. FOUNDATIONAL LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT  
We take pride in investing in 
the leadership development for 
our employees at all levels. In 
response to the pandemic, we 
quickly created two new virtual 
instructor-led workshops to 
ensure continuous development 
took place and that our employees 
received the essential skills 
they needed for success. When 
creating these new programs, 
we also bolstered capabilities 
across our world areas to launch 
these programs. Within six 
weeks of development, these 
new programs were available to 
all of our employees globally. In 
total, we hosted 153 sessions, 
which included 3,089 employees 
through both in-person and 
virtual workshops. ACCELERATED LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT  
We continually look for 
opportunities to develop our future 
leaders. We have two accelerated 
leadership programs in which 
our up-and-coming talent can 
be nominated for professional 
development opportunities. Our 
Rising Leaders Program covers 
fundamental competencies 
of being a leader at Emerson. 
Participants attend two, one-week 
intensive sessions to build on 
progress from one session to the 
next. Our Executive Leadership 
Program is a highly selective 
program for senior leaders across 
Emerson. Throughout 36 months 
of leadership development 
curricula, participants develop skills 
on various topics ranging from 
emotional intelligence to long-term 
strategic direction. In 2020, we had 
six groups consisting of 236 leaders 
attend our Accelerated Leadership 
Development programs. Performance Reviews  
All of our salaried employees 
and their supervisors conduct 
an annual performance review, 
focusing on performance 
goals, development goals and 
competency-based goals. Our 
hourly workers are also expected 
to have similar conversations, 
reviewing their performance as 
it relates to their job categories. 
Our performance management process uses a global competency 
framework for employee 
performance and development 
planning. Throughout the year of 
deploying this global performance 
management system, we also 
developed a global training and 
toolkit resource guide to equip 
managers and employees with 
the support they need to have 
effective performance discussions.In 2020, we received three major awards recognizing how we foster 
leadership development in our workforce. 
• International Association for Talent Development:  
Excellence in Practice Award 
• Chief Learning Officer: Excellence in Innovation Award 
• Human Resources Asia: HR Distinction Award -  
 Excellence in Leadership Development 
Image captured during the Emerson Leadership Series in Alberta, Canada  
prior to the COVID-19 pandemic.FUTURE
We promote STEM 
education and 
programs that prepare 
the next generation of 
critical thinkers and 
problem solvers. 
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT52
FUTURE
ADVANCING THE FUTURE OF OUR INDUSTRIES  
For Emerson, this means not 
only supporting the future of our 
industries, but also the future of  
our communities by contributing  
to the betterment of the places 
where we operate and helping 
address the needs of the broader 
society and the world we live in. 
Advancing the Future 
of Our Industries 
The industries we serve are  
evolving quickly, both in response  
to — and to stay ahead of — shifts  
in the global landscape. Companies 
are realizing that automation help industries identify potential 
issues, empowering companies 
to optimize operations and reach 
the highest levels of efficiency. Our 
software portfolio — $1.1 billion in 
stand-alone software and associated 
engineering services, and $1.3 
billion in embedded control and 
software-enabled devices in 2020 —  
is helping drive these rich insights 
for multiple industries. While industries have been 
slowly integrating automation 
technologies in recent years, the 
COVID-19 pandemic significantly 
accelerated the movement 
toward digital transformation as 
companies were challenged to 
continue safe operations with a 
reduced, distanced workforce. 
As Emerson has worked with 
organizations to introduce The complex challenges of tomorrow 
will be tackled by the bright 
minds and innovative solutions 
we are cultivating today.
can fundamentally transform 
their business and support their 
performance and sustainability 
goals. Implementing technologies 
like sensors and advanced control 
systems enhances efficiency while 
driving a measurable impact on 
employee safety and reducing 
energy consumption. 
These technologies generate 
rich streams of data that, when 
combined with Emerson’s software 
portfolio, provide unprecedented 
insight into processes and 
equipment. Operational analytics 
and other software capabilities automation that enables secure, 
safe remote work, we are 
seeing digital transformation 
technologies evolve from 
tools to measure, monitor and 
control to critical investments 
necessary to sustain and secure 
businesses into the future. Data Management Software, 
Cloud Applications & 
Connected Services
Control  
Systems
Field Devices  
& SensorsSOFTWARE ENABLEMENT & OPTIMIZATION2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT53
FUTURE
TRAINING THE WORKFORCE OF THE FUTURE  
Emerson partners with hundreds 
of universities and colleges 
around the world to provide the 
curriculum, products and training 
needed for students to succeed in 
the industries of tomorrow. A few 
examples include: 
GHENT UNIVERSITY AND UNIVERSITY 
COLLEGE GHENT IN BELGIUM
In partnership with Ghent 
University and University College and promote diversity in the 
field. The laboratory features 
elements of Emerson’s 
Plantweb™ digital ecosystem, 
a DeltaV™ distributed control 
system, and Micro Motion™ 
Coriolis flow meters, among 
other technologies used in 
brewing automation. Emerson has a longstanding 
commitment to supporting efforts 
to train the next generation of 
innovators and to strengthen 
the skilled trades workforce. 
Ghent in Ghent, Belgium, 
Emerson has provided state-
of-the-art technology that 
is helping to train engineers 
in the future of the brewing 
industry. The two institutions 
share a brewery research group 
in the Laboratory for Brewing 
and Fermentation Science and 
Technology, offering hands-
on training to educate the 
next-generation workforce EMERSON EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
To support customers in 
the HVACR industry during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Emerson offered free online 
courses through 2020 to help 
participants stay up to date on 
new technologies and continue 
professional education. Through Emerson Educational Services, 
contractors, wholesalers,  
end-users and original  
equipment manufacturers had 
the opportunity to take lesson 
plans on Emerson products, 
including Copeland™ compressors 
for air conditioning and 
refrigeration applications. 2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT54
FUTUREBOULDER FLOW INNOVATION CENTER 
In spring 2020, Emerson broke 
ground on its $100 million 
investment to significantly expand 
Boulder, Colorado’s manufacturing 
space and launch an innovation 
center on research, new product 
development and industry training 
for its advanced flow measurement 
products. In addition to providing 
Emerson customers with hands-
on access to its most advanced 
products and technologies, the 
facility offers an Interactive Plant 
Environment that stimulates 
industrial manufacturing conditions 
for worker training and upskilling. 
EMERSON DIGITAL CLASSROOM 
Emerson also launched its digital 
classroom, a virtual training facility 
that connects students throughout 
the Middle East and Africa with 
Emerson experts. This digital environment provides an experience 
comparable to a face-to-face 
classroom, enhancing collaboration 
with peers and allowing customers 
to tailor training programs to fit 
their budgets and travel constraints. 
In addition to hands-on demo 
sessions, the training includes 
courses and webinars covering field 
instrumentation, measurement, 
valves, process control, safety 
systems, reliability, digital solutions, 
Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) 
strategies and more. 
LAMAR UNIVERSITY AND LAMAR 
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Emerson’s collaboration with 
Lamar University (LU) and Lamar 
Institute of Technology (LiT) 
helps prepare Texas students with 
the latest digital transformation 
technologies to equip them 
for the future workforce. At LU, Emerson provides advanced process 
automation equipment, two 
performance learning platforms, 
Mimic™ simulation software, 
training materials relating to 
Emerson products and guest 
speakers to improve the classroom 
experience. At LiT, Emerson serves 
as the strategic technology partner 
supporting process technology 
programs with donated Emerson 
Automation Solutions technologies 
to upgrade LiT’s controls, 
instrumentation lab and Glycol Unit. 
Emerson will also provide upskilling 
training for LiT instructors. 
Emerson’s Flow Innovation Center and expanded manufacturing space will feature 
an 85,000-square foot laboratory and hands-on Interactive Plant Environment. Emerson is driven by our Purpose 
to strengthen the future of our 
communities, giving back in the  
areas where we live and work as  
well as being a good global citizen.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
55
FUTURE
ADVANCING THE FUTURE OF OUR COMMUNITIES  
Emerson has annually allocated 
approximately 1% of its 
consolidated pretax earnings 
(excluding nonrecurring items) 
to U.S. charitable contributions. 
During 2020, Emerson and the 
Emerson Charitable Trust made 
contributions totaling $24.5 
million to more than 1,300 
charities, nonprofit organizations 
and educational institutions 
across the United States, which 
includes the company’s match of 
employee contributions. Funding 
was approved to support a range 
of requests from educational 
institutions and nonprofit 
organizations, including operating 
costs to establish, improve or 
sustain core programs, and for 
capital costs such as building 
construction, renovations  
or expansions. U.S. Charitable 
Contributions 
Examples of organizations and 
initiatives in the United States that 
received funding from Emerson 
and our business units in fiscal 
2020 included: 
CULTURE & ARTS 
Dayton, Ohio Cultural 
Institutions (Dayton, Ohio)
Emerson supports leading cultural 
institutions in Dayton, Ohio, 
where its Climate Technologies 
business is located. Victoria 
Theatre Association, Dayton 
Performing Arts Alliance and the 
Dayton Art Institute are just a few 
of the organizations we supported 
in 2020 with over $100,000 in 
charitable contributions. 
TO MORE   
THAN 1,300   
CHARITIES,  
NONPROFIT  
ORGANIZATIONS  
AND  
EDUCATIONAL  
INSTITUTIONS  
across the United 
States , which  
includes the 
company’s match 
of employee 
contributions. $24.5M
Image captured by Emerson colleagues in Houston, Texas during a Habitat for Humanity service project.Emerson’s Corporate Philanthropy Focus Areas 
HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES
$10.7M SUPPORTING THE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING   
of residents of all ages.  
EDUCATION
 $6.4M DEVELOPING AND   
TRAINING FUTURE GENERATIONS  
 through schools, universities and related programs.
CULTURE & ARTS
 $4.5M ENHANCING THE QUALITY OF LIFE   
through support for cultural activities and arts programs.
CIVIC NEEDS
$2.4M PROMOTING PROSPERITY OF OUR CITIES AND REGIONS  
through infrastructure initiatives and community development. 
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
56
FUTURESt. Louis Cultural Institutions  
(St. Louis, Missouri) 
Emerson continued its ongoing 
support of leading cultural 
institutions in its headquarters 
city. In 2020, Emerson completed 
its $2.5M pledge to the Missouri 
Botanical Garden and continued 
its support of organizations such 
as The Muny (Municipal Theatre 
Association of St. Louis), St. Louis 
Science Center Foundation, 
the Missouri Historical Society, and Center of Creative Arts 
(COCA), among others. Emerson 
also continued its five-year 
commitment to the Magic House 
in support of the new STEAM 
center and free educational 
programming. 
HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES 
Support for Food Insecurity 
Caused by COVID-19 Pandemic 
To combat increased food 
insecurity in 2020 due to economic conditions caused by 
COVID-19, Emerson donated over 
$600,000 to 21 organizations in 
our communities throughout  
the United States. 
American Red Cross,  
Southeast Louisiana Chapter
Emerson donated $100,000 to  
the American Red Cross, Southeast 
Louisiana Chapter for Hurricane 
Laura disaster relief in Louisiana. EDUCATION 
Excellence in Teaching Awards 
Program (St. Louis, Missouri) 
The Emerson Excellence in 
Teaching Awards have been 
celebrated in the St. Louis area 
since 1989. The awards recognize 
and honor the exceptional efforts 
of approximately 100 educators 
in the St. Louis metropolitan 
area — from kindergarten teachers 
to college professors. While the 
in-person awards ceremony that is 
generally held was canceled due to 
COVID-19, Emerson continued its 
recognition of 100 educators for 
its 31st year. 2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT57
FUTURECIVIC NEEDS 
Organizations Inspired by Our 
Employee Resource Groups 
As Emerson’s Employee Resource 
Groups continue to grow both 
in number of members and 
significance to our culture, our 
charitable giving has evolved to 
align with these organizations. 
In 2020, to align with our Blacks Reinforcing Diversity group, we 
donated to 100 Black Men, an 
organization whose mission  
“is to improve the quality of 
life within our communities 
and enhance educational and 
economic opportunities for all 
African Americans.” Additionally, 
with the leadership of our  
LGBTQ + Allies group, we 
supported the Lorain County 
LGBTQ and Allies Task Force 
(Elyria, Ohio), and sponsored 
the 2020 St. Louis PrideFest 
virtual event. We supported 
the Women in Manufacturing 
Education Foundation 
(Independence, Ohio), whose 
mission mirrors that of our 
Women in STEM group, to 
develop and support powerful 
programs and resources which 
further the advancement for 
women in the manufacturing 
workforce. In alignment with our 
Veterans group, we contributed 
to Disabled American Veterans —  
St. Louis to support free services 
for veterans and their families in 
response to COVID-19. Support 
for organizations that align with 
our Employee Resource Groups 
will expand in 2021 and beyond. UNITED WAY SUPPORT 
Each year, Emerson and our 
employees get involved in United 
Way fundraising and volunteer 
activities in communities 
across the U.S. In 2020, the 
Emerson Charitable Trust made 
contributions totaling $2.3 million 
to 32 United Way organizations 
across the country. 
REVITALIZING NORTH 
ST. LOUIS COUNTY 
Emerson continues to take 
a lead role as a corporate 
supporter of initiatives in the 
North St. Louis County region 
where our global headquarters 
is located. Our contributions 
support organizations providing 
social services, education and 
employment opportunities for 
economically disadvantaged 
residents in Ferguson and  
nearby communities. Emerson Philanthropy 
Around the World 
As a global company, Emerson 
is committed to making a 
difference in communities 
where we operate across the 
globe. Each office supports our 
collective philanthropy themes, 
and employees are encouraged 
to volunteer their time toward 
meaningful causes. Together, we 
support a variety of nonprofit and 
charitable organizations around 
the world, including charitable 
programs in China, India and 
the Philippines. Visit our website 
to learn more about our global 
philanthropy efforts. TOTAL EMERSON  
AND EMERSON  
CHARITABLE  
TRUST  
CONTRIBUTIONS  
AND PLEDGES  
since 2014 to 
residents of North 
St. Louis County.$30M2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT58
FUTUREEmployee Volunteerism 
and In-Kind Support 
Each year, Emerson employees 
around the world volunteer their 
time in support of nonprofit 
and charitable organizations in 
their local communities. A few 
examples from the past year: 
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY 
(SUNRISE, FLORIDA) 
Our Latin America leadership 
team (including President of 
Latin America, Commercial & 
Residential Solutions, Rafael 
Jaramillo, and Vice President of 
Sales, Chris Miller) serves on the board of the Hispanic Marketing 
and Communication Center at 
Florida State University. This 
program, the first of its kind in 
the United States, is dedicated 
to educating students and 
professionals on U.S. Hispanic 
marketing and advertising. 
BESTPREP EMENTORS PROGRAM 
(CHANHASSEN, MINNESOTA) 
Emerson employees in the 
Minneapolis area participated 
in the BestPrep eMentors 
program. Employees and students 
collaborated on education goals, 
career planning, resume writing 
and job seeking tips, with the goal 
of building students’ confidence 
on next steps after high school. 
Over 50 Emerson mentors worked 
with 78 students across three 
Minneapolis area high schools  
over the course of three,  
eight-week programs. 
ROUND ROCK AREA SERVING 
CENTER (ROUND ROCK, TEXAS) 
Our Lifecycle Service employees 
volunteered at Round Rock Area 
Serving Center in February 2020, 
organizing and distributing 
food to the local Round Rock 
community. The organization 
supports families in crisis through 
its programming and distribution 
services, including food, clothing 
and furniture vouchers and 
programs such as Computer for 
Kids and Keep Round Rock Warm. 
Our employees are eager to get 
back to helping once restrictions 
from COVID-19 are lifted. MINNESOTA FUTURE  
CITY COMPETITION  
(SHAKOPEE, MINNESOTA)
Future City is a project-based 
learning program where students 
in sixth, seventh and eighth 
grades imagine, research, design 
and build cities of the future. 
Emerson sponsors the Most 
Innovative Power System award, 
which is given to the team with 
an innovative power system that 
addresses critical requirements, 
including reliability, disaster 
planning, environmental impact 
and cost effectiveness. 
WOMEN IN STEM WORKFORCE 
READINESS AND DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM (PHILIPPINES)
Emerson partnered with the 
International Labor Organization’s 
Women in STEM Program. This 
organization seeks to provide 
women with critical soft and technical STEM-related skills. In 
2020, prior to COVID-19, Emerson 
held a Soft Skills Training program 
for participants, designed to help 
empower the career development 
of women in STEM-related 
industries. 
BACK TO SCHOOL AND HOLIDAY 
PROGRAMS (CLUJ, ROMANIA) 
Our employees in Cluj donated 
200 backpacks filled with school 
supplies, hand sanitizer and 
masks to students returning to 
in-person classes. Our employees 
also participated in a You Can be 
Santa Too campaign, answering 
hundreds of letters to Santa, 
coming from children in rural  
and underserved communities. Sandy Noche  is a senior supply 
chain analytics leader based 
in Manila, passionate about 
supporting women in STEM and 
closing the gender gap in STEM-
related fields. He has led several 
initiatives to help women in their 
careers, including online soft skills 
training in cooperation with the 
International Labor Organization 
focused on creative thinking and 
empowering women to meet 
their career goals. Sandy was also 
featured in a podcast focused 
on encouraging youth to pursue 
STEM careers and often volunteers 
at career fairs at local universities 
to highlight opportunities to the 
next generation of innovators. 
Sandy believes that promoting 
gender equality in the workplace 
will play a critical role in 
supporting women and building 
stronger communities and a better 
world in the years to come. Emerson Employees  
Making an Impact:  
Promoting Women in STEM
59
FUTUREEmerson is playing a lead role in our 
local communities and globally to help 
prepare our future leaders with STEM-
related education and raise awareness 
of career opportunities in these fields. 
2020 STEM Survey
ONE-THIRD OF PARENTS   
today feel their child is falling behind  
in STEM-related subjects 
91% OF PARENTS  
recognize that their kids do better in math  
and science when learning is interactive 
86% OF PARENTS   
say they would encourage their  
child toward a STEM career
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
60
FUTURE
STEM EDUCATION  
For six years, we have conducted a 
STEM survey to understand more 
about perceptions and beliefs 
about STEM education and careers. 
Our 2020 survey assessed attitudes 
toward at-home learning, given the 
change in learning type for most 
students due to school closures as 
the result of COVID-19. The survey 
showed that 9 out of 10 parents 
agree that hands-on experiences 
and experiments boost children’s 
interest in math and science, 
but fewer than 4 in 10 parents have been able to do hands-on 
experiences in the remote learning 
environment. To address this, 
Emerson delivered thousands of 
STEM activity kits to elementary 
and middle school aged children in 
our local communities, as well as 
other organizations that work with 
underserved youth. 
In addition to supporting youth-
focused programs, Emerson is also 
committed to bridging the skills 
gap as the global manufacturing FUNDING  
COMMITMENTS  
IN FISCAL  
2020 ALONE  
IN SUPPORT  
OF STEM  
EDUCATION  
PROGRAMS IN  
THE UNITED  
STATES.   
Over the past 10 
years, Emerson has 
donated over $16M 
to STEM initiatives. $3M
workforce is required to have 
more technical knowledge than 
ever before. To prepare the next 
generation for these careers, 
Emerson has an enhanced 
emphasis on promoting STEM-
focused job training programs and 
university scholarships, especially 
among women and minorities who 
are traditionally underrepresented 
in the engineering and 
manufacturing industries.2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT61
FUTUREVIRTUAL STEM COMPETITION  
(CANADA) 
Our team in Canada worked with 
our Impact Partner, Spartan 
Controls, to host a Virtual STEM 
competition. The competition 
paired students with a college 
student mentor from the 
University of Calgary Engineering 
program to come up with a 
solution to a problem, using 
videos, photos and drawings.  
The teams presented their 
inventions to a panel of judges 
including Emerson Canada 
President Ryan Garrah, the 
president and CEO of Spartan 
Controls, and “Stemprenuer” 
Sophia Fairweather. The students  
had incredible engagement  
and developed successful  
STEM inventions. We Love STEM 
Launched in 2015, our “We Love 
STEM” campaign continued in 
2020 to increase support for 
STEM education and awareness of 
career opportunities. While this 
year our annual “We Love STEM” 
events were unable to take place 
in person, our teams mobilized 
to create meaningful STEM 
experiments virtually. These 
included: 
SUMMER OF STEM EVENTS  
(ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 
AND AUSTIN, TEXAS) 
Our Women in STEM Employee 
Resource Group hosted a 
“Summer of STEM” for children  
of Emerson employees. Hundreds 
of children completed at-home 
STEM activities, uploading photos 
and videos of their finished 
experiments to win prizes. KICK OFF YOUR STEM CAREER  
(CLUJ, ROMANIA) 
Emerson’s Cluj office launched 
Kick Off Your STEM Career 
mentoring program in January 
2020, an initiative that supports 
neighboring schools and student 
The goal of the “We Love STEM” initiative is to help young people 
discover STEM fields and feel inspired to pursue careers in STEM.
organizations. Volunteer mentors 
hosted workshops around 
resume building, professional 
networking and building effective 
communication skills. 
REPORTINGEmerson continues to 
assess how we can best 
contribute to the SDGs as we 
aim to address the various 
environmental, social and 
economic challenges facing 
our world today. The United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) provide 
a shared blueprint for peace and 
prosperity for people and the 
planet, now and into the future. 
Examples of these actions, 
programs and the SDGs 
to which they relate 
are illustrated here and 
throughout this report. We 
also look forward to further 
developing how we utilize 
the SDGs in our strategies 
and long-term goals.  
GOAL 4 — QUALITY   
EDUCATION  
Emerson partners with schools, 
universities and research institutions 
around the world to ensure 
equitable access to all levels of 
education, especially for STEM skills 
and those who are traditionally 
underrepresented in the engineering 
and manufacturing industries. For 
example, our collaboration with 
Lamar University and Lamar Institute 
of Technology helps prepare Texas 
students with the latest digital 
transformation technologies to  
equip them for the future workforce.  
In 2020, Emerson gave $6.4M to 
develop and train future generations 
through schools, universities and 
related programs. 
See also:  Collaborating with 
Universities around the World , 
Page 22 , Training the Workforce 
of the Future , Page 53 , STEM 
Education , Page 60GOAL 5 — GENDER   
EQUALITY   
Through “Courageous Conversations” 
— a series of regional diversity, 
equity and inclusion-focused forums 
promoting open dialogue across topics 
of gender and more among colleagues 
— we are making a concerted effort 
to advance women’s participation 
in the workforce and end gender-
based discrimination. We trained 50 
Courageous Conversation facilitators 
across our global organization, and 
hundreds of employees participated  
in these discussions. 
We also continually seek a diversity  
of viewpoints on our Board to help us 
understand and anticipate changes in 
our business environment, as well as 
ethnic and gender diversity. To further 
advance diversity, equity and inclusion 
within both the Board and company, 
the Board formed a Diversity Council 
comprised of 14 senior-level Emerson 
executives in 2020.
See also:  Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion , Page 41 , Talent Pipeline , 
Page 43 , Women in STEM , Page 45GOAL 6 — CLEAN WATER   
AND SANITATION   
Through our fluid control products 
and solutions, Emerson works 
to improve water quality and 
increase access to safe drinking 
water by helping our customers 
ensure their water applications 
are clean, safe and compliant 
with regulations. For example, 
multiple projects with cities on 
the East Coast of the United States 
are helping keep the Chesapeake 
Bay cleaner. One project puts 
treated wastewater that would 
otherwise be discharged into local 
rivers through additional rounds 
of advanced water treatment, 
and then pumps it to replenish 
the groundwater supply. Another 
project addresses sanitary sewer 
overflows through plant capacity 
enhancements, eliminating  
more than 80% of the city’s 
volume of sewage overflow in  
the Chesapeake Bay area. 
63 REPORTING
UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALSGOAL 7 — AFFORDABLE   
AND CLEAN ENERGY  
Emerson is committed to delivering 
environmentally sustainable 
solutions to support our customers’ 
decarbonization strategies and 
improve energy efficiency. For 
example, our Automation Solutions 
portfolio provides products and 
solutions to hydrogen original 
equipment manufacturers in the U.K. 
as they respond to the increasing 
demand of hydrogen as an alternative 
fuel. We are supporting Haskel — a 
global manufacturer of turnkey 
hydrogen refueling stations — with its 
aim to build 6-10 refueling stations in 
one year. We are also working closely 
with CMB.TECH to help develop marine 
vessels powered by hydrogen.4 in 10 parents have been able to do 
hands-on experiences in the remote 
learning environment. To address 
this, Emerson delivered thousands 
of STEM activity kits to elementary 
and middle school aged children in 
its local communities, as well as other 
organizations that work with under-
served youth. 
See also:  Workplace Safety , Page 28 ,  
Regional Sourcing , Page 39 , Human 
Rights , Page 48 , Training the 
Workforce of the Future , Page 53 , 
STEM Education , Page 60Within our own operations, we 
recently installed solar panels at our 
Dubai campus, which will produce four 
million kWh of electricity annually and 
reduce grid consumption by 56%. This 
is the equivalent of powering 4,243 
homes in the United Arab Emirates for 
one year. Solar power also contributes 
to progress against our GHG emissions 
reduction target. 
See also:  Reducing Our GHG 
Emissions , Page 14 , Greening BY 
Emerson , Page 18 , Expanding 
Electrification with OSI Inc. , Page 21GOAL 9 — INDUSTRY,  
INNOVATION AND  
INFRASTRUCTURE   
In 2020, Emerson broke ground 
on its $100 million investment 
to significantly expand Boulder, 
Colorado’s manufacturing 
space and launch an innovation 
center on research, new product 
development and industry 
training for its advanced flow 
measurement products. In 
addition to providing Emerson 
customers with hands-on access 
to its most advanced products 
and technologies, the facility 
offers an Interactive Plant 
Environment that stimulates 
industrial manufacturing 
conditions for worker training 
and upskilling. 
See also:  Greening BY Emerson , 
Page 18 , Greening WITH 
Emerson , Page 22  GOAL 8 — DECENT WORK AND  
ECONOMIC GROWTH   
One way we seek to drive economic 
growth is to provide youth the best 
opportunities through investment 
in education and training, providing 
skills that match labor market 
demands, and leveling the playing 
field so that aspiring youth can attain 
productive employment regardless 
of their gender, income level or 
socioeconomic background. 
Our 2020 STEM survey assessed 
attitudes toward at-home learning, 
given the change in learning type 
for most students due to school 
closures as the result of COVID-19. 
The survey showed 9 out of 10 parents 
agree that hands-on experiences and 
experiments boost children’s interest 
in math and science, but fewer than 
64 REPORTINGGOAL 12— RESPONSIBLE  
CONSUMPTION AND  
PRODUCTION  
Emerson is working to ensure 
our company and our customers 
responsibly make the most of the 
planet’s resources. For example, 
we provided control systems and 
project services for a waste-to-
energy power plant in North 
Yorkshire, U.K. The plant, which 
also incorporates biogas and 
recycling facilities, produces  
28 megawatt-hours of electricity  
per hour from 320,000 tons of 
waste. Diverting this waste away 
from the landfill means it can be 
used to generate enough energy 
to power the equivalent of  
40,000 homes.to reducing our GHG emissions by 
20%, normalized to sales, across 
our entire global manufacturing 
footprint and shared service 
facilities by 2028, measured by our 
baseline year of 2018. In 2020, we 
led virtual and in-person site visits, 
when travel restrictions allowed, 
to identify opportunities to reduce 
energy use and emissions across  
the enterprise. 
See also:  Our Approach to 
Environmental Sustainability ,  
Page 11 , Reducing Our GHG 
Emissions , Page 14 , Greening  
BY Emerson , Page 18 , Protecting 
Food Quality and Environmental 
Sustainability , Page 26Our Sensi™ suite of smart home 
solutions is helping customers 
control and achieve heating and 
cooling efficiency targets in homes 
and businesses. Sensi thermostats 
can save users about 23% on HVAC 
energy consumption by adjusting 
the temperature using flexible 
scheduling, remote access and 
geofencing.
See also:  Striving for Efficiency 
across Energy, Waste, Water 
and Raw Materials , Page 14 , 
Energy Source Decarbonization: 
Supporting Low Carbon 
Commitments , Page 19 , 
Emissions Management: 
Diverting Waste from 
Landfills , Page 20 , InSinkErator 
Technologies , Page 26GOAL 17 — PARTNERSHIPS   
FOR THE GOALS   
No one organization or policy 
solution on its own can address the 
challenges we face in advancing 
these ambitious goals. Emerson 
actively participates in a number of 
strategic public -private partnerships 
and coalitions dedicated to 
promoting the development 
and dissemination of technology 
solutions for all, including the CEO 
Action for Diversity & Inclusion, the 
European Clean Hydrogen Alliance, 
the European Partnership for 
Energy and the Environment, the 
Global Food Cold Chain Council, the 
Responsible Minerals Initiative, and 
the ENERGY STAR® buildings and 
Plants Partnership, to name a few. GOAL 13 — CLIMATE ACTION  
In 2020, Emerson took measurable 
steps to further enhance our 
approach to environmental 
sustainability and define our role in 
making the world more sustainable. 
Our strategy can be summarized 
through three key areas: 1) Greening 
OF — how we improve our internal 
environmental sustainability 
performance; 2) Greening BY — how 
we support our customers’ efforts; 
and 3) Greening WITH — how 
we foster collaboration around 
environmental sustainability. 
Our efforts related to climate 
action include our ongoing efforts 
to reduce our GHG emissions 
worldwide. In 2019, we committed Our first Chief Sustainability 
Officer, Mike Train, will continue 
to drive external engagements 
with policymakers, universities, 
customers and other 
stakeholders to further  
our contribution to Goal 17.
See also:  Greening WITH 
Emerson , Page 22 , 
Collaborating with Universities 
Around the World , Page 22 , 
Talent Pipeline , Page 43
65 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-1 Name of the organization Emerson Electric Co.
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Company Profile, p. 6-7  
Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Item 1 – Business
102-3 Location of headquarters Emerson Electric Co.  
8000 West Florissant Avenue, P.O. Box 4100  
St. Louis, MO 63136  
USA
102-4 Location of operations Emerson.com: Contact Us  
Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Item 2 – Properties  
Emerson.com: Investor Fact Sheet
102-5 Ownership and legal form Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Articles of Incorporation)
102-6 Markets served Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Item 1 – Business  
Emerson.com: Automation Solutions  
Emerson.com: Commercial & Residential SolutionsThe following information references selected Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards, a widely used reporting framework on a variety of important 
topics. The GRI framework provides a structure for organizations like Emerson to communicate the environmental, social and economic impacts of our 
business operations. For more information about GRI, please visit GlobalReporting.org . 
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
66 REPORTING
GRI INDEXDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
102-7 Scale of the organization Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Item 1 -- Business; Item 2 -- Properties; Results of Operations, p. 15  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Company Profile, p. 6-7  
Emerson.com: Investor Fact Sheet
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Partially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Company Profile, p. 6-7
102-9 Supply chain Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Item 1 – Business  
2020 ESG Report: Champion (Supply Chain), p. 36
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Item 1 – Business  
Emerson 2020 Annual Report: Letter to Shareholders
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 33  
Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk Factors
102-12 External initiatives Emerson is a member of: Alliance for Responsible Atmospheric Policy, CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, European Clean 
Hydrogen Alliance, European Partnership for Energy & the Environment Responsible Minerals Initiative, European Raw Material 
Alliance, United States Green Building Council (USGBC), Water Research Foundation
102-13 Membership of associations Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Trade Associations & Lobbying)
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Emerson 2020 ESG Report: CEO Message, p. 3-4
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 33  
Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk Factors  
Emerson 2020 Annual Report, p. 14-29
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Our Values, p. 8 ; Champion (Integrity & Ethics), p. 34  
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Business Ethics)  
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Ethics and Compliance)
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Ethics and Compliance)  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Ethics Hotline and Reporting Process), p. 35
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
67 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
102-18 Governance structure Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 7  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Corporate Governance), p. 31-32  
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices)
102-19 Delegating authority Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 7 (Sustainability and Corporate   
Social Responsibility)  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability), p. 11-12 ; Champion (Recent Corporate 
Governance Actions), p. 32  
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices – Board Oversight of Management)  
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 
and social topicsEmerson recently announced our first Chief Sustainability Officer, Mike Train. His role is to lead Emerson’s global environmental 
sustainability strategy as we drive progress within our facilities and to help our customers achieve their ESG goals. Train is part of 
the Office of the Chief Executive, reporting into Emerson’s CEO and President and Board of Directors. 
Additionally, Akberet Boykin Farr is our Vice President of Diversity and Social Responsibility. While continuing to manage 
Emerson’s internal diversity, equity and inclusion programs, she is responsible for managing the Emerson Charitable Trust, 
coordinating the company’s corporate social responsibility reporting and serving as community liaison in St. Louis, MO,  
our global headquarters. Bokyin Farr reports into Emerson’s CEO and President.
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental,  
and social topicsEmerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Our Board of Directors, p. 2; Board and Corporate Governance, p. 9  
(Shareholder Engagement)
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and  
its committeesEmerson.com: Corporate Governance  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Board of Directors Policies), p. 31-32  
Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Our Board of Directors, p. 2; Board and Corporate Governance, p. 9   
(Board Composition)
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices)  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Board of Directors Policies), p. 31-32  
Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 8 (Board Leadership Structure)
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices)  
Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 13 (Nomination Process)
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
68 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
102-25 Conflicts of interest Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Conflict of Interest Evaluation and Reporting), p. 35  
Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 11 (Review, Approval or Ratification   
of Transactions with Related Persons; Director Independence)  
Corporate Social Responsibility: Operating Responsibly (Integrity and Ethics)
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose,  
values, and strategyEmerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Recent Corporate Governance Actions), p. 32  
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices)  
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter  
Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 7 (Sustainability and Corporate   
Social Responsibility)
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Emerson’s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary briefs the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee 
on corporate responsibility topics on at least an annual basis.
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 13 (Board and Committee Evaluations)
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and 
social impactsEmerson.com: Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 33  
Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 7 (Sustainability and Corporate   
Social Responsibility)
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 33  
Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 7 (Sustainability and Corporate   
Social Responsibility)
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 33  
Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 7 (Sustainability and Corporate   
Social Responsibility)  
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting The Environmental, Social and Governance Report is reviewed by the Emerson Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance  
& Nominating Committee.
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Communications with the Company and Obtaining Emerson Documents, p. 65  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Ethics Hotline and Reporting Process), p. 35
102-35 Remuneration policies Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Director Compensation, p. 14; Executive Compensation, p. 19
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
69 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Director Compensation, p. 14; Executive Compensation, p. 19
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Proxy Item No. 3: Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation, p. 58
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Pay Ratio Disclosure, p. 48
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Trade Associations and Lobbying)  
Other organizations listed throughout the report
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Inclusion (Labor Relations), p. 47 
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Emerson solicits and uses feedback from employees, customers, investors and analysts, community leaders, suppliers, regulator 
and NGOs to understand concerns and impacts of our operations on the environment, the economy and local communities.
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Our Board of Directors, p. 2; Board and Corporate Governance, p. 9  
(Shareholder Engagement)  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Greening WITH Emerson), p. 22
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Subsidiaries of Emerson Electric Co., September 30, 2020
102-48 Restatements of information Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Tracking Our Environmental Footprint: Our Environmental Data), p. 16
102-50 Reporting period Emerson 2020 ESG Report: About This Report, p. 83
102-51 Date of most recent report May 2020
102-52 Reporting cycle Emerson 2020 ESG Report: About This Report, p. 83
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Emerson 2020 ESG Report: About This Report, p. 83
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This material references GRI Standards 2018 as detailed in this index.  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: About This Report, p. 83
102-55 GRI content index Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Referenced GRI Standards Index, p. 66-76
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
70 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Results of Operations
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due 
to climate changeEmerson 2020 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk Factors  
Emerson 2020 CDP Response
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; Retirement Plans
INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Future (Advancing the Future of Our Communities), p. 55-57
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Humanity, p. X; Future (Training the Workforce of the Future), p. 53-54 ;  
(Advancing the Future of Our Communities), p. 55-59 ; (STEM Education), p. 60-61
PROCUREMENT PRACTICES
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Regional Sourcing), p. 39
ANTI-CORRUPTION
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 
and proceduresPartially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Anti-Corruption Controls), p. 35
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken During the reporting period, Emerson did not experience any incidents of corruption that rose to the level of materiality  
that would have required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
71 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practicesDuring the reporting period, Emerson was not identified as a participant in any legal actions alleging anticompetitive  
behavior or violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation that rose to the level of materiality that would have required 
disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
ENVIRONMENT DISCLOSURES
ENERGY
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Electricity Use), p. 17  
2020 CDP Climate Change Report
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Partially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Greening OF Emerson), p. 13-17 ; (Greening BY Emerson), p. 18-22
WATER
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 2020 CDP Water Security Report
303-3 Water withdrawal 2020 CDP Water Security Report
303-5 Water consumption Partially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Water Consumption), p. 17
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
72 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
EMISSIONS
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Greenhouse Gas Emissions), p. 16
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Greenhouse Gas Emissions), p. 16
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Emissions Intensity), p. 16
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Greenhouse Gas Emissions), p. 16
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
73 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
307-1 Noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Planet (Environmental Compliance), p. 17   
In fiscal year 2020, environmental regulators inspected our facilities or were notified of incidents on 41 different  
occasions worldwide. Of these occasions in 2020, five resulted in monetary penalties, which totaled $3,057.00. 
SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Partially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Supplier Engagement), p. 37 ; (Supporting Supplier Sustainability), p. 38
SOCIAL DISCLOSURES
EMPLOYMENT
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employeesPartially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Inclusion (Wages and Benefits), p. 48
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment,  
and incident investigationPartially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Humanity (Workplace Safety), p. 28
403-3 Occupational health services Partially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Humanity (Workplace Safety), p. 28
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication  
on occupational health and safetyPartially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Humanity (Workplace Safety), p. 28
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Partially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Humanity (Workplace Safety), p. 28
403-6 Promotion of worker health Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Inclusion (Wages and Benefits), p. 48
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
74 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
403-9 Work-related injuries Partially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Humanity (Health and Safety Performance), p. 29
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programsEmerson.com: Careers (Training & Development)  
Emerson.com: Investing in People (Transition Assistance)  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Inclusion (Training and Development), p. 49-50
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 
career development reviewsPartially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Inclusion (Performance Reviews), p. 50
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Partially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Inclusion (Emerson’s Workforce Diversity), p. 46  
Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board Diversity, p. 3
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom  
of association and collective bargaining may be at riskPartially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Inclusion (Labor Relations), p. 47
CHILD LABOR
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents  
of child laborPartially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Inclusion (Human Rights), p. 48
FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents  
of forced or compulsory laborPartially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Inclusion (Human Rights), p. 48
HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 
impact assessmentsEmerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Supplier Engagement), p. 37
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
75 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION/RESPONSE RELATED UN SDGS
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include 
human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screeningEmerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Affirming Supplier Responsibility), p. 37
SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Partially reported: Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Affirming Supplier Responsibility), p. 37
PUBLIC POLICY
415-1 Political contributions Emerson 2020 ESG Report: Champion (Political Participation), p. 33  
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Political Contributions)
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
416-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning the health and safety 
impacts of products and servicesDuring the reporting period, Emerson identified no new incidents of noncompliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes 
concerning the health and safety impacts of Emerson products and services that rose to the level of materiality that would have 
required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
MARKETING AND LABELING
417-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning product and service 
information and labelingDuring the reporting period, Emerson identified no new incidents of noncompliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes 
concerning the health and safety impacts of Emerson products and services that rose to the level of materiality that would have 
required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
417-3 Incidents of noncompliance concerning marketing 
communicationsDuring the reporting period, Emerson identified no new incidents of noncompliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes 
concerning the marketing communications of Emerson products and services that rose to the level of materiality that would 
have required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 
419-1 Noncompliance with laws and regulations in the social and 
economic areaDuring the reporting period, Emerson identified no noncompliance with laws and/or regulations in the social and economic  
area that rose to the level of materiality that would have required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
76 REPORTINGDISCLOSURE TOPIC METRIC SASB CODE UNITS EMERSON METRIC / DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Greenhouse  
Gas EmissionsGross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under 
emissions-limiting regulationsRT-CH-110a.1 Metric tons (t) CO2e, 
Percentage (%)Emerson 2020 ESG Report, Emissions Intensity and GHG Emissions, p. 16: 135,308 MT CO2e
Discussion of long- and short-term strategy or plan to manage 
Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets and analysis of 
performance against targetsRT-CH-110a.2 N/A Emerson 2020 ESG Report, Greening OF Emerson, p. 11; Reducing our GHG Emissions, p. 14 
2020 CDP Climate Change Report
Water  
Management(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, 
percentage of each in regions with high or extremely high 
baseline water stressRT-CH-140a.1 Thousand cubic 
meters (m³), 
Percentage (%)2020 CDP Water Security Report, Section W1.2b, 4,377 megaliters withdrawn  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report, Water Consumption, p. 17: 942,189,954 U.S. gallons (3,567 megaliters)
Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water 
quality permits, standards and regulationsRT-CH-140a.2 Number 2020 CDP Water Security Report, Section W2.2a, three total water-related fines, none of which are  
considered significant
Description of water management risks and discussion  
of strategies and practices to mitigate those risksRT-CH-140a.3 N/A 2020 CDP Water Security Report, Section W3.3The following preliminary disclosure is aligned to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework for the sector denoted as “Resource 
Transformation — Electrical and Electric Equipment (EE).” However, given the diversified nature of Emerson’s business, our company does not fit squarely within 
one single industry. We have therefore included metrics aligned to other industry sectors we believe would be of interest to our stakeholders. Emerson will 
continue to evaluate the disclosure of additional topics as these emerge, considering relevance, availability of high-quality data and competitive sensitivities.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
77 REPORTING
SASBDISCLOSURE TOPIC METRIC SASB CODE UNITS EMERSON METRIC / DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Employee Health  
& Safety(1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate,  
and (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR)RT-IG-320a.1 Rate Emerson 2020 ESG Report, Emerson Global Health and Safety Performance, p. 29: 0.34 total recordable 
rate of injuries
Business Ethics Description of policies and practices for prevention of:  
(1) corruption and bribery; (2) anti-competitive behaviorRT-EE-510a.1 N/A Emerson 2020 ESG Report, Anti-Corruption Controls, p. 35 
Emerson Employee Code of Conduct, Giving Gifts or Other Things of Value and Bribery, p. 9; Antitrust   
or Anti-competition, p. 14  
Emerson Business Ethics  
Emerson Supplier Code of Conduct
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with bribery or corruptionRT-EE-510a.2 Reporting currency SEC Filings: Information on legal proceedings is disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our 
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with anti-competitive  
behavior regulationsRT-EE-510a.3 Reporting currency SEC Filings: Information on legal proceedings is disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our 
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
Activity Metrics Number of employees RT-EE-000.B Number Emerson 2020 Form 10-K: Item 1 – Business, Human Capital Resources: approximately 83,500 employees  
at September 30, 2020
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
78 REPORTINGGOVERNANCE
Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.
SUMMARY RESPONSE RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE LOCATION
The Board of Directors assumes responsibility for the oversight of Emerson’s risk 
management and strategy. This oversight is designed to provide to the Board 
timely visibility into the identification, reporting, assessment, and management 
of critical risks, including climate-related risks, and opportunities. The Corporate 
Governance and Nominating Committee assists the Board in the oversight of the 
company’s sustainability initiatives, including the company’s Environmental,  
Social and Governance Report.
Our CEO engages directly with the Board to report progress toward greenhouse gas 
(GHG) targets. Our Corporate Operations Group and Environmental Affairs Group 
monitor performance against these targets. Each business unit measures and tracks 
its performance on a quarterly basis and reports it to Corporate management.
The members of the Office of the Chief Executive (OCE), which includes the 
most senior leaders of the company, bring the relevant experience essential 
to developing and executing our climate-related strategies. An Environmental 
Sustainability Steering Committee, comprised of many of these executive leaders, 
meets bi-annually to evaluate the company’s sustainability strategy.a. Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks 
and opportunities.2020 CDP Climate Change Report, sections C1.1a, C.1.1b  
Emerson 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 7  
(Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility)  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report, Risk Management and Oversight, p. 33
b. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and opportunities.2020 CDP Climate Change Report, sections C1.2, C1.2aThe table below is a preliminary disclosure of Emerson’s publicly available climate-related information using the framework developed by the 
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). It contains our responses to each of TCFD’s recommendations, as well as the location 
of these disclosures.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
79 REPORTING
TCFDSTRATEGY
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning where such information is material.
SUMMARY RESPONSE RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Emerson is committed to developing and maintaining sustainable, responsible 
practices and offerings in its global operations to create value for customers and 
shareholders. Our business strategy and product development processes take 
into consideration the implications of climate change. Climate-related risks and 
opportunities are considered in our strategies throughout the business and value chain, 
including within product development, supplier engagement, business objectives and 
operations and financial planning. Emerson does not expect climate-related scenarios 
to impact the business in any meaningful way in the immediate future.a. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities  
the organization has identified over the short, medium 
and long term.2020 CDP Climate Change Report, Risks and Opportunities, section C2
b. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organization’s businesses,  
strategy and financial planning.2020 CDP Climate Change Report, sections C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1, C.3.1c C.3.1d
c. Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, 
taking into consideration different climate-related 
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.2020 CDP Climate Change Report, Business Strategy, section C3
RISK MANAGEMENT
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning where such information is material.
SUMMARY RESPONSE RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Emerson identifies climate-related risks as those with the potential for substantive 
financial or strategic impact to our business, operations, revenue or expenditures 
that would impact our ability to successfully deliver products to our customers. 
Emerson considers various climate-related risks as part of an integrated 
multidisciplinary, company-wide risk management process. The Audit Committee 
supports the Board in risk management. In addition, business operations include 
regular monitoring, mitigation and control. Each year, there is a review of the 
company’s climate-related activities, audits and expenditures.a. Describe the organization’s processes for identifying  
and assessing climate-related risks2020 CDP Climate Change Report, sections C2.1b, C2.2
b. Describe the organization’s processes for managing 
climate-related risks2020 CDP Climate Change Report, section C2.2
c. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and 
managing climate-related risks are integrated into  
the organization’s overall risk management.2020 CDP Climate Change Report, sections C1.1a, C.1.1b, C1.2, C1.2a
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
80 REPORTINGMETRICS AND TARGETS
Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks.
SUMMARY RESPONSE RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE LOCATION
In 2019, Emerson announced a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
by 20%, normalized to sales, by the year 2028. The company’s intensity goal 
covers 185 of our global manufacturing facilities where we own, operate and 
have control over operations. This represents roughly 80% of our scope 1 and 2 
GHG footprint. Emerson has disclosed its Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions 
and marked a decrease in gross global emissions compared to the previous 
reporting year. Emerson has used protocols from The Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
and source documents from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to guide 
methodologies, emission factors and collection of data.a. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess 
climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its 
strategy and risk management process.2020 CDP Climate Change Report, Business Strategy, section C3
b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks.2020 CDP Climate Change Report, sections C2.2a, C3.1d, C6.1, C6.2, C6.3, C7.6a, C7.9a  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report, Tracking Our Environmental Footprint: Our Environmental Data, p. 16
c. Describe the targets used by organization to manage 
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets.2020 CDP Climate Change Report, section C4.1b  
Emerson 2020 ESG Report, Reducing Our GHG Emissions, p. 14 ; Tracking Our Environmental 
Footprint: Our Environmental Data, p. 16-17
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
81 REPORTINGABOUT  
THIS  
REPORTOn October 1, 2020, the Company 
completed the acquisition of 
Open Systems International, Inc., 
a leading operations technology 
software provider in the global 
power industry. This business will 
be reported in the Automation 
Solutions segment. In fiscal 2020, 
the Company acquired three 
businesses, two in the Automation 
Solutions segment and one in the 
Climate Technologies segment, for 
$126 million, net of cash acquired. The Emerson 2020 Environmental, 
Social and Governance Report presents 
information focused primarily on data 
collected and activities that occurred 
during calendar 2020 or Emerson’s fiscal 
2020 (October 1, 2019 — September 30, 
2020), except where indicated otherwise. 
Where appropriate, we have 
indicated whether the data we 
present here includes discontinued 
businesses. 
This report presents information 
that references selected Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
Standards 2018 and United  
Nations Sustainability Goals (SDGs), 
unless noted otherwise. Please 
see the Referenced GRI Index 
beginning on Page 66  for details.We expect to update this 
report annually. However, we 
undertake no obligation to 
update any statements herein 
to reflect later developments. 
This report may contain 
forward-looking statements 
that are not strictly historical 
and may involve risks and 
uncertainties. These risks 
and uncertainties include 
economic and currency 
conditions, market demand,  
pricing, protection of 
intellectual property, and 
competitive and technological 
factors, among others, as set 
forth in Emerson’s most recent 
Annual Report on Form 10-K 
and subsequent reports filed 
with the U.S. Securities  
& Exchange Commission.
Safe Harbor Statement
This Report contains various forward-looking statements and includes assumptions concerning 
Emerson’s operations, future results and prospects. These forward-looking statements are 
based on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Emerson undertakes 
no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. In connection with 
the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Emerson 
provides the following cautionary statements identifying important economic, political and 
technological factors, among others, changes in which could cause the actual results or events 
to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements and 
related assumptions. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) the current 
and future business environment, including capital and consumer spending, potential volatility 
of the end markets served, interest rates, and currency exchange rates; (2) competitive factors 
and competitor responses to Emerson initiatives; (3) development and market introduction of 
anticipated new products; (4) the ability to defend and protect our intellectual property rights; 
(5) favorable environments for and execution of acquisitions and divestitures, domestic and 
foreign, including regulatory requirements and market values of candidates; (6) integration 
of acquisitions and separation of disposed businesses; (7) the availability of raw materials 
and purchased components; (8) stability of governments and business conditions in countries 
where we operate which could result in adverse changes in exchange rates, changes in 
regulation, tariffs or trade barriers, nationalization of facilities or disruption of operations; 
(9) unrestricted access to capital markets; (10) our ability to attract, develop and retain 
key personnel; (11) ability to prevent security breaches or disruptions of our information 
technology systems; (12) impact of potential product failures or similar events caused by 
product defects, cybersecurity incidents or other intentional acts; (13) the scope, duration and 
ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic (as well as oil and gas price declines and volatility) 
on the global economy and our customers; (14) changes in tax rates, laws or regulations 
and the resolution of tax disputes in U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions; (15) the impact of 
improper conduct by our employees, agents or business partners; and (16) the outcome of 
pending and future litigation, including environmental compliance. Statements in this Report 
regarding our aspirational purpose, causes, values, and related commitments, goals or 
targets, including those regarding sustainability, greenhouse gas emissions, inclusion or 
other initiatives, contain forward looking statements and are also intended to qualify for the 
protections of the “safe harbor” protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. Such statements are intended to help Emerson adapt and rise to the call of our various 
stakeholders. Because success in these areas depends on the collective efforts of others and 
other factors such as competing economic and regulatory factors, technical advances, policy 
changes, labor markets, availability of candidates, and supplier and customer engagement, 
there may be times where actual outcomes vary from those expected. While we strive to live 
our purpose and make a positive impact on society while continuing to advance towards our 
commitments, sometimes challenges may delay or block progress and we cannot assure you 
that the results reflected or implied by any such statements will be realized or achieved.
2020 EMERSON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
83 ABOUT THIS REPORT
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Any questions or comments  
regarding this report  
can be directed to our  
Vice President, Diversity  
and Social Responsibility,  
8000 West Florissant Avenue,  
St. Louis, MO 63136,  
+1-314-553-20007AC Technologies, Inc., American Governor 
Company, Appleton, ASCO, Aventics, Bettis, 
Branson, Charles F. Knight Learning Center, 
Copeland, Copeland Scroll, DeltaV, Emerson, 
Emerson Automation Solutions, Emerson 
Charitable Trust, Emerson Commercial & 
Residential Solutions, Emerson Educational 
Services, Fisher, Greenlee, Grind2Energy, 
HTE, InSinkErator, Keystone, Klauke, KTM, 
Lumity, Micro Motion, Mimic Simulation 
Software, Open Systems International, 
Inc. (OSI Inc.), Ovation, PACSystems, 
Plantweb, Plantweb Optics, Performance 
Learning Platforms, Progea Group, RIDGID, 
Rosemount, Sensi, Vanessa, Verdant, Vilter, 
are trademarks, service marks and/or trade 
names of Emerson, its subsidiaries, affiliates, 
investments, or joint ventures.
Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Oil 
Operations, ADIPEC Awards Inclusion and 
Diversity Companies of Year, American 
Red Cross, BestPrep eMentors Program, 
Center of Creative Arts (COCA), CEO Action 
for Diversity and Inclusion, Chief Learning 
Officer Excellence in Innovation Award, CMB.TECH, Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO), Consortium for Graduate Study 
in Management, Dayton Art Institute, 
Dayton Performing Arts Alliance, Dragos, 
DCP Midstream, LLC., Disabled American 
Veterans, Edison Award, Enbridge, ENERGY 
STAR, ENERGY STAR Buildings and Plants 
Partnership, ENERGY STAR Partner of the 
Year, European Clean Hydrogen Alliance, 
European Raw Material Alliance (ERMA), 
Florida State University, Forbes Magazine 
World’s Best Large Employers, Forbes 
Magazine Best Employers for Diversity, 
Fortune 500 America’s Largest Corporations 
by Revenue, Fortune World’s Most Admired, 
Ghent University, Global Reporting Initiatives 
(GRI), Harvard University, Haskel, Hiring 
Our Heroes, Human Resources Asia HR 
Distinction Award - Excellence in Leadership 
Development, Human Rights Campaign 
Corporate Equality Index, Human Rights 
Campaign Best Places to Work for LGBTQ 
Equality, Hydro Quebec, Intercultural 
Development Inventory® (IDI), International 
Association for Talent Development Excellence 
in Practice Award, International Labor 
Organization’s Women in STEM Workforce 
Readiness and Development Program,  Lakeside Controls, Lamar University (LU), 
Lamar Institute of Technology (LiT), 
Lorain County LGBTQ and Allies Task 
Force, Minnesota Future City Competition, 
Missouri Botanical Garden, Missouri Ethics 
Commission, Missouri Historical Society, 
National Association of Manufacturers, The 
National Association of Manufacturers STEP 
Ahead Awards, National Renewable Energy 
Laboratory (NREL), National Society of Black 
Engineers (NSBE), Newsweek’s America’s 
Most Responsible Companies, Northwestern 
University, Responsible Minerals Initiative 
(RMI), Round Rock Area Serving Center, Saint 
Louis Science Center, Saint Louis PrideFest, 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC), Society of Women Engineers (SWE), 
Society of Women Engineers Mission Award, 
Southeast Louisiana Chapter, Spartan 
Controls, Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB), STEM Workforce Diversity 
Magazine Top 50 Employer, Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD), Texas A&M University, The Energy 
and Resources Institute-School of Advanced 
Studies (TERI-SAS), The Magic House,  The Muny, UN Food and Agriculture 
Organization, United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals, United States Green 
Building Council (USGBC), United Way, 
University College Ghent, University of 
Cambridge, University of Dayton, University 
of Michigan, United States Department 
of Justice, United States Environmental 
Protection Agency, Victoria Theatre 
Association, Washington University, Woman 
Engineer Magazine Top 50 Employer, Women 
in Manufacturing Education Foundation, and 
their related designs and logotypes used in 
this Environmental, Social and Governance 
Report are trademarks, service marks and/
or trade names of their owner, and are not 
owned or affiliated with Emerson.
©Emerson Electric Co., 2021.  
All Rights Reserved