2021 ENVIRONMENTAL,   
SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT22021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Table of Contents 2CEO Message
Chair Message
Company Profile
Report At-A-Glance
Our PurposeEnvironmental 
Sustainability
Our Approach to 
Environmental Sustainability 
and a Net Zero World
Driving Net Zero Operations: 
Greening Of Emerson
Solving for Net Zero  
in Essential Industries:  
Greening By Emerson
Collaborating for  
a Net Zero World:  
Greening With EmersonSocial  
Responsibility
Modernizing Our Culture  
and Driving Diversity,  
Equity and Inclusion 
Employee Engagement
Training and Development
Workforce Development
Industry Stewardship
Corporate Philanthropy
STEM EducationGovernance and 
Accountability
Corporate Governance 
Integrity & Ethics
Workplace Safety
Supply Chain
CybersecurityReporting
UN Sustainable  
Development Goals
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Index
Environmental Data
About This Report3
5
6
7
89 37 57 71
 
99TABLE OF CONTENTS32021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    CEO Message 3Emerson’s ESG commitment mirrors our unified global Purpose: 
“We drive innovation that makes the world healthier, safer, 
smarter and more sustainable.” Our 86,700 employees  
live out this charge to not only identify opportunities for 
efficiencies and improvements today, but also to reimagine 
what our company and our world could look like tomorrow.
TAKING ACTION ON   
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Recent scientific reports continue to reinforce the urgency of 
climate change and meeting goals set out in the Paris Climate 
Agreement. We all have a role in these efforts.
In 2021, we appointed Mike Train as Chief Sustainability Officer. 
This role, part of our Office of the Chief Executive, reflects 
our focus on sustainability across our company. Under his 
leadership, Emerson has made significant strides, and we are 
strengthening our leadership position as our customers and 
suppliers work to deliver their environmental targets.
As part of our longstanding commitment to operational execution 
and excellence, we remain dedicated to doing our part as a global 
business leader to drive tangible, sustainable business practices 
and to help our customers around the world do the same.When I assumed the role of CEO, I prioritized cultivating an 
exceptional culture, transforming our industry-leading portfolio 
and continuing to drive the best-in-class execution that has long 
been a hallmark of Emerson. Our efforts to drive Emerson’s 
leadership on environmental, social and governance (ESG)  
issues have been a top priority across these areas. Dear Stakeholders
This past year has represented the start of a transformation for this company. 
OUR NET ZERO AMBITION
Emerson has set an ambitious target 
to achieve net zero greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions across our value 
chain by 2045 compared to a 2021 
baseline. To set us on the right 
pathway, we will target net zero 
operations and a 25% reduction of 
our value chain emissions by 2030, 
also compared to a 2021 baseline. 
The invaluable lessons we learn 
from decarbonizing within our 
four walls will enable us to drive 
emission reductions where we can 
have the greatest impact for our 
customers, suppliers and partners.42021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    CEO Messageefforts, pledging $200 million over the next 10 years to 
organizations that address the vital issue of education 
inequity, with a particular emphasis on the development  
of children and youth. This commitment underscores our 
vision to create a more equitable future for all.
REINFORCING OUR COMMITMENT   
TO STRONG GOVERNANCE
Governance and execution have been fundamental to Emerson’s 
identity since our founding more than 130 years ago. We 
continue to evaluate our structures and policies to integrate our 
ESG priorities throughout the various facets of our organization, 
including our total compensation discussions and programs. 
Reinforcing the importance of compliance and ethical behavior 
in our governance measures, we promoted Chief Compliance 
Officer Lisa Flavin to our Office of the Chief Executive. Lisa helps 
to ensure we maintain a disciplined approach to evaluating and 
continuing to improve our systems of internal control, financial 
reporting and compliance. 
We’re also privileged to be guided by a Board of Directors that 
has served as a strong and trusted partner in our ESG journey.  
In 2021, we appointed James Turley as non-executive independent  
chair of the Board. Jim’s experience with Emerson and in finance, 
public company service and executive leadership are a true asset. We are also proud to have strong diversity as well as leadership 
by women on our Board, with two of the three required Board 
Committees now led by women.
I want to extend my sincere thanks to the Emerson Board of 
Directors and the Office of the Chief Executive, as well as our 
employees and customers. Our accomplishments this year would 
not have been possible without the collective input, creativity, 
time and efforts of each and every one of you. And there’s so 
much more to come through our commitment to our culture, 
portfolio and execution – with ESG as a driving force. When 
we combine the talents and passion of our global workforce, 
the impact we can make for our customers, industries and 
communities we serve is truly limitless.
My personal regards, 
Lal Karsanbhai  
President and Chief Executive Officer DRIVING PROGRESS   
ON SOCIAL ISSUES
As a global company operating across industries and geographic 
borders, our technologies and innovations are grounded in 
helping people live better lives. Advancement in this area starts 
within our own walls.
Creating a culture where everyone is welcomed, trusted, 
celebrated and empowered is not only the right thing to do —  
it’s the best way for us to create value. At Emerson, we’re dedicated  
to modernizing our workplace so our company can meet the 
needs and expectations of today’s workers and attract talent  
that will help us thrive. 
In 2021, we introduced a goal of doubling representation at  
the leadership level of women globally and minorities in the 
U.S. by 2030. And, to lead our efforts to support our people and 
strengthen the employee experience, we appointed Elizabeth 
Adefioye as Emerson’s first Chief People Officer. Her energy and 
fresh perspectives will help ensure our people and culture agenda 
support our ambitious business objectives and global strategies.
We’re also committed to creating positive change in the 
communities where we live and work. Education is an area of 
particular importance to us, because we know it can be the 
catalyst to great opportunity for under-resourced communities 
and minority populations. We are now focusing our giving 52021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Chair Messagefocus on environmental initiatives, as more and more companies  
around the world prioritize setting, measuring and progressing 
toward sustainability targets. 
Emerson’s Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee, 
formed in 2020, is driving actions to enhance Emerson’s 
environmental initiatives and encourage best practices 
throughout the organization. In this spirit, the committee 
continued to develop working groups in 2021 to enhance the 
company’s global value chain, including efforts focused on 
Emerson’s supply chain and energy sourcing. Looking ahead, 
the committee is supportive of Emerson’s net zero target and 
energy-reduction targets, as well as the work to advance key 
innovations and participation in leading global climate forums.
The Board is also supportive of the accelerated vigor surrounding 
Emerson’s people and culture initiatives, spearheaded by Lal 
and the company’s leadership team. The energy surrounding 
diversity, equity and inclusion is reflected among the Board —  
and we are focused on ensuring the Board is diverse in 
backgrounds, experiences and expertise. In 2022, 45% of our 
directors are women or persons of color, and four of our six new Environmental, social and governance topics have never been 
more important to the vitality of the company and our world —  
and the Board is energized by Emerson’s refreshed focus on 
progress in this area.
The Board of Directors is a critical partner in determining and  
evolving company strategy. As we partner with Lal to catalyze 
growth and anticipate customer needs, we have a particular directors over the last five years have been gender or ethnically 
diverse. Women play a strong leadership role on the Board, 
leading two of our three required committees and holding  
two positions on the Executive Committee.
The actions taken by Emerson in 2021 set a strong ESG 
foundation — and I speak for the entire Board when I say I look 
forward to continuing to serve as a partner to the company in 
advancing this strategy in the months and years to come.
Sincerely,
 
James Turley 
Chair, Emerson Board of DirectorsDear Stakeholders
This year has been one of great momentum for Emerson.62021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Company Profile 6We combine an exceptional culture with a world-class 
portfolio and rigorous execution to serve as a go-to partner  
for leading companies in energy, power, life sciences, food 
and beverage, chemicals, heating and air conditioning, 
professional tools and others. Our best-in-class workforce develops exceptional 
technologies, software and services to help deliver on our 
global Purpose: We drive innovation that makes the world 
healthier, safer, smarter and more sustainable. 
More information about Emerson’s business and operational performance can be found at Emerson.com and in our latest Annual Report to Shareholders  
and Form 10-K filing with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission and in subsequent reports we file with the SEC.St. Louis,  
Missouri 
Headquarters86,700   
Employees170  
Manufacturing 
Locations 20K   
Active Patents 
Worldwide in 2021Key Facts at a Glance
RECOGNITIONS
RANKED #181   
of America’s largest corporations 
by revenue in 2021 (Fortune 500)
RANKED #298   
of America’s Best Employers  
For Diversity 2021 (Forbes)
RANKED #12   
by Women Engineer Magazine’s 
list of top employers   
SCORED 100%  
on the 2022 Corporate  
Equality Index   Company Profile
Emerson has a 130+-year legacy of advancing progress  
for customers in the world’s most essential industries. New collaborations to drive global sustainability efforts:
Business Ambition for 1.5°C, RE100, Race to Zero,  
Clean Energy Buyers Association (CEBA)
72021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Report At-A-GlanceGoal to source 100% 
renewable electricity  
by 2030 2021 ESG  
Report At-A-GlanceNet Zero Targets
2045 2030Net zero GHG emissions  
(Scopes 1, 2 and 3) byNet zero operations Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions  
and 25% reduction of Scope 3 GHG emissions by 
with a science-based  
aligned approach   to achieve net zero operations 
compared to 2021 baseline 
Environment Social Governance
DIVERSITY GOALS
40% of global leadership 
targeted to be women and  
30% of U.S. leadership targeted 
to be minorities by 2030
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
Black Employee Alliance, LGBTQ + Allies, Somos,  
Veterans Resource Group, Women’s Impact Network
Added in 2021:
Asian & Pacific Islander Alliance, Mosaic, Diverse AbilitiesJames Turley,  
Independent Board Chair,  
appointed in 2021  
Mike Train, Emerson’s first 
Chief Sustainability Officer, 
appointed in 2021Lisa Flavin, Chief Compliance 
Officer, appointed to Office of  
the Chief Executive in 2021ESG targets integrated in compensation programs for leadership Achieved 17% decrease in 
emissions intensity since 2018  Completed first full Scope 3 
emissions footprint
Elizabeth Adefioye,  
Emerson’s first Chief People 
Officer, appointed in 2021Improved CDP 
Climate Change 
rating to B
Near-term GHG targets have been approved by  
the Science Based Targets initiative Two of three required Board committees are led by women
45% of Directors are women or persons of colorCOMMUNITY SUPPORT   
$200M pledged to address 
education inequity needs  
over next 10 years82021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Our PurposeOur Purpose
We drive innovation that makes the world healthier, 
safer, smarter and more sustainable.
Our Purpose is much more than words. It is a collective call-to-action, brought to life through the collaboration  
of our global workforce, reinforcing our steadfast commitment to our stakeholders, communities and the world. 
Every day, around the globe, we drive meaningful change — and our Causes and Values serve as the driving force  
behind our Purpose and are the foundation for how we make decisions, act and react. They inform our direction  
as an organization, reflect our culture and establish the foundation of how we show up and lead in the world. 
OUR CAUSES
We deliver sustainable solutions that 
improve efficiency, reduce emissions 
and conserve resources.
We strive to advance health, comfort, 
food quality and safety.
We lead our customers through 
complex technical, regulatory  
and economic challenges.Humanity
ChampionWe cultivate an environment based  
on trust and support.
We promote science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
education and programs that prepare 
the next generation of critical thinkers 
and problem solvers.Inclusion
FutureOur Values
Integrity
We are uncompromising in our honest and ethical behavior, 
which creates trusting relationships with one another, 
customers, suppliers and communities.
Safety & Quality 
We are unwavering in our commitment to the highest standards 
of safety and quality for ourselves and our customers.
Support our People
We attract, develop and retain exceptional people in an  
inclusive work environment, where all employees can reach  
their greatest potential.
Customer Focus
We actively listen to our customers to deeply understand their 
needs and deliver the unique solutions that ensure their success.
Continuous Improvement
We constantly strive for improvement in all aspects of our 
business, guided by metrics, feedback and our disciplined 
management process. 
Collaboration
We work seamlessly across geographies, platforms, business  
units and functions to fully leverage our breadth and expertise. 
Innovation
We passionately pursue new technologies, capabilities  
and approaches to drive tangible value for our customers.PlanetEnvironmental  
Sustainability  
10
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityThis complete transformation of the global economy in 
just a 30-year timeframe requires unprecedented levels of 
collective resolve, ingenuity, collaboration and commitment. 
At the core of this transformation are the sectors that 
deliver essential needs to society, such as manufacturing, 
transportation, the built environment (residential and 
commercial) and the food value chain. The energy systems 
that support these activities are already transitioning at a 
significant pace toward more electrified, cleaner and more 
renewable forms of energy. 
Emerson has a comprehensive portfolio of technologies, an 
established installed base and the global reach to support 
these sectors in their low-carbon energy transition. Our 
portfolio touches all major forms of primary energy generation 
including renewable energy, nuclear energy and bio-based  
energy derived from waste. Further downstream, our 
technology is utilized to optimize the management of both  
the electron grids and molecule grids at the core of the  world’s decarbonization strategies. We enable energy 
efficiency across a wide range of industries and applications. 
The associated energy and emissions savings impact from 
energy efficiency is being counted on in the various energy 
transition roadmaps of countries and companies around 
the world. Our technologies directly measure and manage 
emissions and directly support electrification in a broad 
set of use cases. While the world faces a very real challenge 
in climate change, we believe accelerating the adoption of 
energy transition solutions now and leveraging the impact 
of Emerson’s broad automation capabilities can help make  
a net zero future become a reality.
To achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement, countries   
and companies worldwide must halve their greenhouse gas 
emissions by 2030 and reach net zero emissions by 2050.  Our Approach to   
Environmental Sustainability   
and a Net Zero World
Emerson is deploying environmental sustainability strategies  
and accelerating decarbonization across the globe.11
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityEmerson’s Ambition to Achieve Net Zero Emissions
Emerson recognizes a net zero ambition for our own company is a 
critical step forward as we build a more sustainable business and 
contribute to a more sustainable world. To ensure our goals are 
robust and follow the latest climate science, we have aligned a 
set of targets with the Science Based Target initiative’s (SBTi) 
Net-Zero Standard, the world’s leading organization in driving 
the adoption of science-based targets. 
Emerson has established a target to reach net zero greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2045  
compared to a 2021 baseline. A robust net zero design requires 
the absolute reduction of GHG emissions by at least 90%, 
allowing for high-quality carbon neutralization in other parts 
of the ecosystem for any residual emissions, which cannot be 
otherwise abated. 
In the near term, we aim to reach net zero across our 
operations for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030,  
following the same SBTi Net-Zero Standard. These emissions 
relate to the energy we consume in our facilities around  
the world, and to reach this target we will continue to  
drive progress on energy efficiency, the electrification of 
combustion processes and the sourcing of renewable energy. 
These actions are described in more detail in this report. Across our indirect value chain, Emerson is targeting a 25% 
absolute reduction of Scope 3 GHG emissions by 2030. This 
includes a breadth of activities from purchased materials and 
components, transportation and distribution, to the energy  
and associated emissions required to operate our products  
in customer and end-user locations. 
While Scope 3 emissions are outside of our direct control, 
Emerson is well-positioned to influence reductions of these 
emissions in many ways. We can enhance our own product 
designs, engage our supply chain partners and end-user 
customers in their own GHG reduction journeys, advocate 
with policymakers to continue driving the pace of greening of 
electrical grids and incentivize more active at-scale adoption  
of important energy transition solutions.Emerson’s near-term targets have been approved by the Science 
Based Targets initiative as consistent with levels required to meet 
the goals of the Paris Agreement.
To set these targets, we have spent considerable effort 
developing a complete Scope 3 emissions footprint across all 
applicable categories. A discussion on the development of this 
footprint is presented on page 22. 12
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityEnvironmental Sustainability Steering Committee
Emerson’s Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee  
has actively worked to centralize and coordinate environmental 
sustainability-related activities and initiatives across Emerson’s 
global value chain – connecting the priorities of our Board, 
leadership team and our colleagues around the world. 
The Committee’s role is to recommend strategies and drive 
support to help advance Emerson’s environmental sustainability 
performance across all three areas of our framework, as well as to 
educate and encourage the use of best practices throughout our 
global organization. To help ensure environmental sustainability 
is deeply integrated into our business, all functional areas are 
active in this committee. This includes Emerson’s executive 
leadership and management teams from business development, 
strategy planning, legal, finance and accounting, operations, 
information technology, human resources, marketing and 
communications, supply chain, technology, engineering and 
investor relations.
In 2021, Committee activities included:
• Developing and supporting our net zero target and roadmap.
• Creating a cross-functional global team to develop a 
comprehensive modeling of our Scope 3 emissions footprint 
and decarbonization strategies for each category.• Establishing the Energy Sourcing Committee to build Emerson’s  
energy sourcing capability for renewable electricity and 
renewable natural gas around the world.
• Building our product life cycle assessment program to  
help identify appropriate tools, databases, processes and 
resources for understanding and reducing the embedded 
carbon in our products.
• Increasing engagement with supply chain and logistics partners 
on environmental sustainability through best practices 
exchange, developing shared objectives and roadmaps, and 
driving specific abatement solutions for each relevant category.
The Steering Committee also works on employee engagement, 
quantification of customer impact, disclosure, data quality and 
automation, scenario analysis, external partnerships and energy 
transition advocacy.ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AWARD
This year, we introduced the Emerson Environmental Sustainability Award to  
highlight our most impactful environmental sustainability initiatives. Our Vilter 
industrial compression business is our first recipient among 23 submissions this year 
for its partnership with Hydro Quebec, the largest utility in Canada. This collaboration 
is focused on the development and eventual commercialization of a large facility  
high-capacity CO2 refrigerant heat pump system. When this solution is deployed 
in a grid supported with significant hydroelectric resources, there is a significant 
opportunity for greenhouse gas emission reductions.
13
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityEngaging our People
Emerson prioritizes engaging employees to drive awareness of 
our sustainability initiatives and goals. Regular Greening Of and 
Greening By meetings build alignment across our global teams, 
while our company-wide Environmental Sustainability Hub and 
training materials promote a deeper understanding of the wide 
breadth of our work to drive sustainable operations across our 
business and the industries we serve. 
Making changes at scale for a global company requires 
embedding environmental sustainability throughout our 
management process and, ultimately, in every part of our 
culture. At the facility operations level, we have appointed a 
sustainability team and leader at all major sites around the world. 
These employees lead our local environmental sustainability 
efforts, including the reduction of energy use and associated 
GHG emissions intensity, as well as our existing programs for 
managing water use and responsible waste disposal.
Our Environmental Sustainability Framework
Emerson utilizes a framework that groups our environmental 
sustainability efforts into three broad pillars: Greening Of 
Emerson, Greening By Emerson and Greening With Emerson.  
This framework has resonated strongly with customers, 
employees, investors, governments and communities as we 
partner with stakeholders. The following sections are organized 
in line with this framework. 14
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityREDUCING OUR   
GHG EMISSIONS
In 2019, we announced our commitment  
to reduce GHG emissions by 20%, normalized to  
sales, across our entire global manufacturing 
footprint by 2028, compared to our 2018 baseline. 
By driving energy efficiency improvements and 
accelerating renewable electricity sourcing, we 
have continued to make steady progress toward 
this target and currently expect to achieve this 
target earlier than initially planned.Driving Net Zero Operations:
Greening Of Emerson
We are working to improve our internal environmental  
performance across our global business.
Emerson Dubai campus recently installed an on-site solar system that provides over half of its daily electricity usage. Market-Based Intensity (Full Facility Footprint)
Scope 2: Location-BasedScope 1
Scope 2: Market-BasedEMISSIONS INTENSITY
Location-based emissions include grid electricity emission 
factor averages multiplied by the total purchased electricity. 
Market-based emissions include supplier emission factors, 
net residual factors and renewable energy. 
GHG emission intensity is measured in Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) metric tons  
of carbon dioxide equivalent (mT CO2e) per million dollars in sales. 
Emerson has updated its GHG emission calculations to include additional non-manufacturing facilities 
with significant energy consumption levels. In total, 208 major facilities were in-scope for our 
20% GHG intensity reduction target in fiscal year 2021. We also conducted a thorough review of 
all historical energy consumption data, striving to more accurately document and disclose our 
carbon footprint. All of the aforementioned points resulted in revisions to our historical energy 
consumption and emission data previously reported for fiscal years 2018-2020.All GHG emissions are measured in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (mT CO2e). Our full Scope 1 and 2 emissions reporting 
includes all sites within our operational control including manufacturing and nonmanufacturing facilities (e.g., warehouses, 
distribution centers, headquarter buildings, sales offices, engineering centers) along with mobile emissions from leased vehicles 
and fugitive emissions from leaked refrigerants. Our total greenhouse gas emissions for fiscal year 2021 included the 208 major 
energy consuming facilities in scope for our GHG intensity reduction target as well as the 502 remaining facilities under Emerson’s 
operational control. Where primary activity data was not available, we have made estimations — based on occupancy, square 
footage, site use and other factors.GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
195,945179,149196,962 ‘19
‘20
‘21202,998 ‘18
604,629619,446701,556 ‘19
‘20
‘21709,532 ‘18
601,141615,961704,052711,997
‘19‘18
‘20
‘2149.052.6
47.4‘19‘18
‘20
‘21 43.7
Achieved 17% decrease in 
GHG emissions intensity 
from the 2018 baseline value37.540.5
37.6‘19‘18
‘20
‘21 33.7Market-Based Intensity ( Major Facilities Footprint)  
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability
1516
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability16TARGETING NET ZERO OPERATIONS BY 2030
Our pathway to Net Zero Operations by 2030 will require continued focus on reducing Scope 1 and 2 
emissions at our sites around the world. We will utilize five major strategies in our operations:
2021 2030 2045
Renewable 
Electricity 
Sourcing and  
On-Site 
Generation 
SystemsNeutralization 
through 
Technological 
SolutionsAssuring 
Environmental 
ComplianceIdentifying 
Energy Efficiency 
Opportunities 
through Energy 
Treasure HuntsElectrification 
and Low-Carbon 
Fuels17
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability*Emission and intensity calculations include data from all Emerson manufacturing  
and non-manufacturing facilities worldwide. Data from 2018-2021 represents  
actual emissions, and data for 2022 and beyond are estimates.‘28‘27
‘29
‘3004008001,200
200
600
1,000
1,4001,600
‘18
‘20‘19
‘21
‘22
‘23
‘24
‘26‘25Scope 1 + 2 Emissions (‘000 mT CO2e)
Identifying Energy Efficiency Opportunities  
through Energy Treasure Hunts
Energy Treasure Hunts are proving to be a major catalyst in 
enhancing our energy efficiency efforts. These are typically  
three-day events led by a local sustainability team and  
facilitated by one of our energy experts. The first day is focused 
on studying a facility on a low production day to understand 
how energy is being managed. The same process is repeated 
on a high production day to understand energy flows and 
opportunities. The team reviews and prioritizes a set of specific 
initiatives to reduce energy and associated emissions as well  
as identifies any significant investments that may be required. We are typically identifying 10-15% energy savings 
opportunities during a specific Energy Treasure Hunt event  
and target a total 25% reduction by 2030 in energy intensity. 
These events also help identify best practices that can be shared 
with other Emerson facilities. Our businesses are embracing 
energy efficiency in their operating metrics and are tracking the 
progress made in implementing identified opportunities.
Participants in an Energy Treasure Hunt at the Flow Controls 
manufacturing site in Marshalltown, Iowa, search for savings 
opportunities during a non-production hours walkthrough.ENERGY EFFICIENCY
ELECTRIFICATION AND LOW-CARBON FUELSRENEWABLE ELECTRICITY
NEUTRALIZATION THROUGH TECHNOLOGICAL SOLUTIONS
PROJECTED EMISSIONS
EMISSIONS INTENSITYNET ZERO OPERATIONS —   
2030 ROADMAP
This chart provides the anticipated 
emissions profile and projected 
impact of strategies to reduce 
emissions for our 2030 net zero 
operations target.18
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityRenewable Electricity Sourcing and On-Site Generation Systems
During 2021, Emerson established an Energy Sourcing 
Committee to act as a focal point for reviewing opportunities 
and engaging in more active sourcing of renewable electricity. 
This group has representatives from sustainability, supply chain, 
finance and legal functions and works closely with our businesses 
to evaluate and implement renewable energy purchases. We 
also utilize third-party energy specialists who are active in the 
energy markets and aware of emerging opportunities. 
With this enhanced focus, we sourced approximately 4% of  
global electricity from renewable sources in major facilities  
 in 2021 and anticipate reaching approximately 25% in 2022. In specific situations, we have begun to install on-site renewable 
electricity generation systems and will continue to evaluate 
opportunities for these systems going forward. Our Dubai, United  
Arab Emirates campus recently completed a major on-site 
solar system installation that provides for over half of its daily 
electricity usage.
Electricity usage represents approximately 75% of Scope 1 
and 2 emissions. For our 2030 net zero operations objective, 
we are targeting 100% renewable electricity coverage from 
contracted electricity sources and on-site generation assets. 
Electrification and Low-Carbon Fuels
The remaining 25% of Scope 1 and 2 emissions relates 
predominately to the combustion of natural gas in our facilities, 
either in manufacturing processes or comfort space heating. 
Beyond energy efficiency measures, looking forward we will be 
evaluating opportunities to convert from combustion-based to 
electrified processes such as utilizing heat pump technologies 
to replace gas furnaces and boilers. We will also be engaging in 
renewable natural gas (RNG) purchases with gas derived from 
waste, such as landfill gas and agricultural digesters. 
Over the longer term, for high temperature processes that cannot 
be electrified, we will evaluate the use of hydrogen as a fuel.  
We plan to transition Emerson fleet vehicles to zero emission 
versions as the supply of these vehicles becomes more prevalent. FACILITIES MAKING PROGRESS  
TOWARD NET ZERO OPERATIONS  
Our Copeland Compressor operation in Lebanon, 
Missouri, completed an Energy Treasure Hunt in 
2021 and is implementing several important energy 
reduction projects. This facility also utilizes 100% 
renewable electricity and is making significant strides 
in the journey to achieving net zero operations. 2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability19WATER CONSUMPTION
Emerson’s water usage in U.S. gallons, as reported by our manufacturing facilities worldwide.  
Increased water consumption for 2021 is attributed to additional facilities reporting their water usage.1,023,427,803942,189,9541,116,166,389
1,156,341,118‘18
‘19
‘20
‘21
We utilize a set of company-wide standardized practices that aim 
to prevent pollution and environmental damage. These practices 
also minimize risks and reduce long-term operating costs.
Our environmental compliance management approach includes 
a comprehensive auditing program for our manufacturing sites. 
Third-party compliance consultants assess sites against both our 
company-wide standards and local regulations. Any identified 
corrective measures are tracked to closure. 
Waste service providers are also audited at regular intervals  
by site personnel or third-party consultants to help ensure 
proper compliance requirements are met.Wastewater management and water conservation are important 
areas of focus. Conservation measures are becoming mandatory 
in arid and semi-arid regions. Water usage patterns are evaluated 
to identify reduction opportunities. Water infrastructure in our 
facilities is routinely inspected. 
We conduct regular training programs for facility personnel 
who are responsible for environmental matters. Environmental 
compliance performance is reported to the Audit Committee.Neutralization through Technological Solutions
An important component to achieving net zero operations 
by 2030 relies on the implementation of high-quality 
neutralization activities. There are currently three  
approaches to neutralize carbon emissions: taking carbon  
out of the atmosphere and permanently storing it 
underground through technological solutions, storing  
carbon in some form of natural sink such as trees and soil,  
or recycling emitted carbon back into some form of 
permanent product use such as building materials.
For corporate net zero targets to add up at scale, we support  
the principle that offsets should not replace mitigation efforts 
and should only be used to remove residual emissions that 
organizations cannot reduce. Companies should strive for 
neutralization activities that deliver permanent removals.  
We support the implementation of a global system in which 
carbon offsets comply with a consistent high level of quality  
and where requirements, such as additionality and  
permanence, are assured.
Assuring Environmental Compliance
Our environmental compliance practices are focused  
on emissions management, wastewater compliance and 
responsible waste disposal. We comply with applicable 
environmental laws and regulations. Environmental  
information is collected from our sites through a common 
reporting information system.20
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityThe Guadalajara team following the completion of their Energy Treasure Hunt.EMERSON EMPLOYEES MAKING AN IMPACT:  
Improving Energy Efficiency
René Cabera is corporate director of operations for Mexico 
and Latin America. In 2021, René (kneeling, second from the 
right) and his team worked with our businesses to complete 
three major Energy Treasure Hunts in Guadalajara, Mexicali 
and Chihuahua, yielding an average of 15% energy savings 
per facility. Representatives from other Emerson Mexico 
facilities and other local supply chain partners participated in 
these Energy Treasure Hunts to learn and implement at their 
own sites. René says implementing sustainability initiatives is 
about educating employees around the importance of energy 
reduction and its positive impact on our planet. 21
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability212021 2030 2045
Utilizing  
Product Life Cycle 
Assessments Activating  
our SuppliersPromoting the 
Decarbonization 
of the Grid Establishing a 
Scope 3 Footprint 
and Improving 
Data Quality and 
Analysis Enhancing the 
Energy Efficiency 
of our ProductsNET ZERO ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN BY 2045
Achieving net zero across all scopes by 2045 will require driving deeper awareness and collaboration with our customers, 
supply chain partners and logistics providers. We have five major strategies to work across our value chain:2021 ESTIMATED SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
Metric Tons of CO2 Emissions  
Scope 3 categories 10 and 15 are negligible, categories 13 are 14 not applicable.
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability
22Establishing a Scope 3 Footprint and Improving Data Quality and Analysis
Scope 3 emissions cover a broad range of activities across our value chain, which are not directly 
owned or controlled by Emerson. Examples include the components we buy from supply chain 
partners, transportation logistics for our products, waste generated in operations, business travel  
and employee commuting, as well as the energy consumed by our products when utilized at an  
end-use customer location. 
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) provides standards, guidance, tools and training for 
businesses and governments to measure and manage emissions. While Scope 3 emissions as defined 
by the GHG Protocol are those emissions which are outside of our direct control, there is still an 
opportunity to influence these emissions from our position in the value chain. For example, if we 
make a product design change, this can impact the emissions associated with the components we 
purchase, the emissions required to move these components, and the emissions associated with 
energy used during the lifetime of this product. We can also use our technical perspective and global 
reach to engage and advocate for policy changes to influence sector-wide emissions reductions.
Emerson’s Scope 3 footprint for 2021 is shown in the accompanying table and will serve as 
our baseline going forward. This is a complete Scope 3 footprint for any category relevant to 
our activities. By their nature, Scope 3 footprints are estimates using modeling approaches, as 
outlined in the GHG Protocol based on certain assumptions and data provided by third parties.
For Emerson, our Scope 3 footprint is dominated by downstream Category 11 “Use of Sold 
Products” emissions. In this category, we start by quantifying the number of units sold in a given 
year and then model the products’ lifetime of emissions. Quantifying these expected emissions 
involves estimating the following: the average annual power utilized by the product, its average 
yearly duty cycle, estimated average lifetime, and an emissions factor for the electrical grid based 
on the expected location where it is used. In our specific product portfolio, over 95% of Category 
11 emissions relate to the compressors in our Climate Technologies portfolio used for heating, 
cooling and refrigeration applications around the world to keep food safe, avoid food waste,  
and help keep people healthy. View our Scope 3 emissions footprint and additional emissions  
data on page 95.PURCHASED GOODS & SERVICES AND CAPITAL GOODS  
(CATEGORY 1+2)2,049,500
UPSTREAM FUEL & ENERGY RELATED ACTIVITIES  
(CATEGORY 3)163,000
UP & DOWNSTREAM TRANSPORTATION & DISTRIBUTION 
(CATEGORY 4+9)803,000
WASTE IN OPERATIONS  
(CATEGORY 5)52,100
BUSINESS TRAVEL  
(CATEGORY 6)19,200
EMPLOYEE COMMUTING  
(CATEGORY 7)155,000
USE OF SOLD PRODUCT  
(CATEGORY 11)588,000,000
END-OF-LIFE TREATMENT  
(CATEGORY 12)150,000
 
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS TOTAL 
591,391,800
23
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityOur second largest emissions category relates to the materials 
and components (Category 1 “Purchased Goods and Services”) 
that we use as inputs into our products. Our current level of 
modeling is based on spend amounts and associated emissions 
factors for various categories and locations around the world. 
Over time, we expect to enhance the granularity of this 
information by incorporating more weight-based information 
in our modeling. We will also work with strategic supply chain 
partners to include their specific information. Similar modeling 
is conducted on our logistics, waste, business travel and 
employee commuting.
In some contexts, extending the lifetime of products can be 
a prime component of the transition toward a more circular 
economy: it reduces waste, saves resources, and supports 
more sustainable development. In others, however, a more 
holistic view is needed to determine what the optimum lifetime 
of a product may be. The energy and materials used in the 
production of a new product, and the waste generated in its 
disposal, must be balanced with the potential improvements  
in energy efficiency and lowered lifetime emissions that can 
be brought about by newer technology designs.24
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityManufacturing PlantLIFE CYCLE   
ASSESSMENT  
OVERVIEW
All Raw Material
Commissioning, Usage,  
DecommissioningEnd of Life  
(Recycle/Reuse/Landfill) ENERGY & 
MATERIALS
CRADLE TO GATE
TRANSPORTATIONCRADLE TO GRAVEUtilizing Product Life Cycle Assessments 
One of the most important aspects of reducing our carbon impact is to understand the life cycle 
footprint of our products and solutions portfolio. Life cycle assessments (LCA) are an important tool 
to help identify the amount of embedded carbon in our products and to help our teams prioritize 
steps that can be taken to improve. Emerson utilizes widely accepted processes and databases  
to conduct lifecycle assessments. Additionally, LCAs form the basis of many sustainable product  
policies worldwide, such as the Eco-design Directive in the European Union.
The opportunities identified in an assessment can include: 
The LCA process provides a good perspective on the environmental impact of a product and helps  
to inform relative priorities for reducing overall carbon.
We have conducted several LCA studies across our portfolio. In a recent life cycle assessment for a 
Micro Motion Coriolis flowmeter, our team gained valuable insight to the primary contributors of 
GHG emissions in our meters from the process energy in our factory, purchased components and end 
of life considerations. These insights were utilized to prioritize improvements in the energy efficiency 
of our manufacturing and reduce corresponding emissions.
The insights gained from this LCA were instrumental in the design of a new Micro Motion hydrogen 
dispensing Coriolis flowmeter released in 2021. The new design and enhanced manufacturing 
processes have resulted in a reduction of 15% of the embedded carbon of prior designs. In the longer 
term, learnings from LCA studies like these will better inform our new product design choices, 
sustainable packaging options and manufacturing approaches.• Improving the energy efficiency  
of our manufacturing processes.
• Reducing emissions in transporting  
and distributing our products. 
• Making product design changes.• Rethinking business models around  
the products’ end-of-life.
• Shifting our procurement practices to 
enable the use of lower-carbon materials.
EMISSIONS  
& WASTE
EMISSIONS
EMISSIONS  
& WASTEEMISSIONS  
& WASTE
EMISSIONSEMISSIONS EMISSIONS
PackagingManufacturing25
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityEnhancing the Energy Efficiency of our Products
Our technologies and solutions are used by leading companies 
in the most essential industries around the world. Because our 
products can have average lifetimes that exceed 10-15 years, 
and some even go past 20 years, the efficiency and sustainability 
of our products can impact global environmental targets at 
scale, for years to come. We recognize this responsibility and are 
committed to driving greater energy efficiency throughout our 
product portfolio and support increasingly higher standards for 
energy efficiency and reduced emissions impact. 
Activating our Suppliers
We are engaging strategic suppliers across the world to exchange 
views on sustainability and carbon emission reductions. 
Collaboration is required throughout our supply chain to make 
progress and we will need to work together on the solutions and 
best practices that will help abate our collective carbon footprint. 
Many of the sectors in our supply chain such as steel, electronics 
and plastics are hard-to-abate industries and will require utilizing 
cleaner forms of energy, use of recycled inputs, electrification 
and the development of hydrogen-based approaches for higher 
temperature manufacturing processes. Emerson has developed 
specific abatement roadmaps for each major purchase category 
and will be using sustainability-related metrics in our supply chain 
partner qualification and management process.
Promoting the Decarbonization of the Grid 
Electricity grids globally have been undergoing significant 
transformation as society changes its energy mix by reducing reliance on un-abated fossil fuels, increasing the use of clean 
energy and integrating smart digital technologies. Emerson is 
already driving forward by purchasing our own clean electricity, 
as well as by supporting customers with our technology  
to optimize the production of wind, solar, hydro, renewable  
natural gas and nuclear energy. But we know that additional 
public and private sector efforts will be critical to make energy 
grids smarter, lower carbon and more resilient.
Given our global presence and unique technical perspective  
in the power generation and distribution sector, Emerson is  
well-positioned to proactively support and advocate for pathways 
to cleaner electricity capacity in markets around the world.  
This will play a critical role in our goal to achieve net zero emissions within our operational boundaries (Scope 1 and 2) by 
2030 as well as in reducing our Scope 3 emissions by 25% by 2030 
from a 2021 baseline. We will take the lessons we learn from 
implementing our own decarbonization roadmap to encourage 
similar emission reduction activities with customers, supply chain 
partners, governments and local communities.
To further enhance our advocacy, Emerson is actively engaging 
with third-party organizations, including the Clean Energy 
Buyer’s Association and RE100, to promote the increased use  
of renewable and clean energy worldwide. 
The Greening Of Emerson is incredibly important to stakeholders 
as we look to the future and make our contribution toward a  
net zero world.Emerson colleagues and suppliers gathered for the second Greening Together Summit in Aachen, 
Germany to discuss best practices for implementing sustainability programs.26
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability26Coming together to deliver on a net zero emissions world 
will require very focused and intentional actions by countries, 
companies and individuals across every aspect of today’s 
economy and energy system. The urgent challenge of energy 
system transition in a few short decades will require significant 
innovation, collaboration, investment and the resolve to change 
across every major energy related activity – how we generate, 
manage and move energy; how buildings consume energy to 
deliver important services; how manufacturing utilizes energy  
to produce key products; how agriculture and food systems 
deliver food; and how we power the transportation of people 
and goods. Emerson technologies touch and impact every one  
of these critical energy-related activities. 
Emerson has technology, expertise, reach and drive to deliver 
on many of the important solutions that are being considered  
in the roadmaps for tomorrow’s low carbon energy system.
Our solutions enable the environmental sustainability 
progress of our customers in four important strategic areas: 
Energy Source Decarbonization, Electrification and  
System Integration, Energy Efficiency and Optimization,  
and Emissions Management.Solving for Net Zero   
in Essential Industries:
Greening By Emerson
Energy Source 
Decarbonization
Emissions 
ManagementElectrification and 
System Integration
Energy Efficiency 
and OptimizationTRANSPORTATION / MOBILITY4
~9 Gt CO2 emissions
Deliver high-performance 
and efficient operations in the 
production and distribution of 
the clean fuels of the future. MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES4
~20 Gt CO2 emissions
Reduce energy use and GHG 
emissions across a broad range 
of industries, from chemicals 
and petrochemicals to food and 
beverage, hydrogen, biofuels, 
refining and metals production.
SUSTENANCE / FOOD2
~18 Gt CO2 emissions 
(Food Cold Chain3  
~1 Gt CO2 emissions)
Help deliver critical temperature 
control and monitoring from 
farm to fork and reduce 
emissions through food loss 
prevention and rescue.POWER PRODUCTION4
~14 Gt CO2 emissions
Enable utilities to optimize energy 
efficiency, dynamically model 
electricity production and  
more easily integrate renewables 
into the mix.Support the world’s transition 
to a more circular and healthier 
economy, where material and 
water resources are sustainably 
managed and accessible to all.~2 Gt CO2 emissionsWASTE & WATER TREATMENT5
BATTERY VALUE CHAIN / 
MINERALS MINING5
~3 Gt CO2 emissions
Help ensure safety and optimize 
production throughout the  
value chains of the critical 
minerals needed to decarbonize 
the economy, such as lithium  
and polysilicon. 
BUILT ENVIRONMENT1
~10 Gt CO2 emissions  
(HVACR1 ~7 Gt CO2 emissions)
Drive efficient, reliable and 
sustainable systems to advance 
electrification of heating and 
refrigeration and the transition 
to low global warming potential 
solutions in residential and 
commercial buildings.ENERGY SOURCE DECARBONIZATION
ENERGY EFFICIENCY & OPTIMIZATIONELECTRIFICATION & SYSTEM INTEGRATION
EMISSIONS MANAGEMENTGreening Solutions by Emerson
Greening Solutions:
Greening Solutions:Greening Solutions:Greening Solutions:Greening Solutions:
Greening Solutions:Greening Solutions:ENABLING  
DECARBONIZATION   
AND THE CLEAN   
ENERGY TRANSITION
Emerson’s portfolio of 
technologies, software and 
services help measure, control 
and optimize operations, indoor 
environments and human 
comfort for customers across a  
broad set of critical industries.
Numbers on this chart have been obtained from multiple sources and do not add up to the annual global GHG emissions of 59 Gt CO2. Emissions from power 
production (including electricity and heat production) are reallocated as indirect emissions in the end-use sectors. Emissions in the manufacturing industries 
include both energy-related and process emissions. Emissions in the built environment do not include embodied emissions from construction materials.1. Global Status Report for Buildings and Construction 2019
2. Food Systems are Responsible for a Third of Global Anthropogenic GHG Emissions
3. The Food Cold-Chain and Climate Change
4. WG III Contribution to the Sixth Assessment Report
5. Emissions by Sector 27
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityThe World’s  
GHG Emissions28
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability28Energy Source Decarbonization
The first major area of the energy system that must be addressed 
is the supply of lower carbon forms of primary energy. Clean 
energy sources, such as onshore and offshore wind, solar, 
hydroelectric, geothermal and nuclear are being counted on to 
substantially reduce GHG emissions. Replacing coal-fired power 
with natural gas remains a critical strategy in the near-term.  
Substituting fossil-based energy forms with energy from biowaste  
feedstock, such as renewable natural gas, biodiesels and 
sustainable aviation fuels, is starting to gain momentum. 
Emerson’s automation capabilities in sensing, final control, 
compression, systems and analytics are enabling energy producers 
to bring these solutions on-line with confidence. Technologies 
like wireless solutions, digital twin simulation, advanced control 
applications and operations management software make it 
possible to leverage existing infrastructure and operate at the 
highest levels of safety, reliability and energy efficiency.
One example of Emerson’s impact is our partnership with Neste. 
This customer is the world’s largest producer of renewable diesel 
and sustainable aviation fuels produced from waste and residue 
raw materials. Emerson is supporting Neste on their digital 
transformation and expansion of their refinery in Tuas, Singapore. 
Neste is adding 1.3 million tons per year of renewable fuel 
production by 2023 to bring their total global renewable product 
capacity to 4.5 million tons per year. Emerson is providing a complete suite of digital automation capabilities to position Neste  
for long-term operational excellence.
Working with Burns & McDonnell, Emerson is providing automation software 
and control technologies for the extensive modernization of the New York 
Power Authority’s (NYPA) 2,525-megawatt Robert Moses Niagara Power 
Plant. NYPA is the largest state-owned public power organization in the U.S., 
operating 16 generating facilities and more than 1,400 circuit-miles of  
high-voltage transmission lines. Hydroelectric facilities provide more  
than 70% of the generation capacity managed by NYPA.
INVESTING IN WIND POWER
Emerson recently acquired Mita-Teknik, a leader in control 
automation technology for wind power generation.  
This acquisition expands Emerson’s capabilities in the wind 
power generation market and supports our ability to help 
customers in their quest to digitally transform operations.
Emissions 
ManagementElectrification and 
System Integration
Energy Efficiency 
and OptimizationEnergy Source 
Decarbonization29
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability29
Electrification and System Integration
One of the world’s key strategies in reducing emissions is to 
electrify end-use processes that were traditionally based on the 
combustion of fossil-based energy. Once these processes are 
electrified, the objective is to generate cleaner electricity at the 
points of generation. 
An example of a major approach to decarbonizing buildings is 
to convert traditional combustion-based heating and hot water 
applications to heat pump systems which can provide heating, 
hot water and cooling using electrified compressor-based  
systems. The usage of heat pump systems is growing rapidly 
around the world as policies are established to drive major  
adoption. The International Energy Agency’s net zero 2050 scenario   
expects the installed heat pump stock to reach 600 million  
by 2030, from about 180 million in 2020. Emerson technology 
is being incorporated in heat pump applications for residential, 
commercial, large facility and district level heating applications.
The distribution of energy through grid systems is also at 
the core of energy system transition. Emerson automation 
technologies are involved in both the generation and 
distribution of electricity as well as the movement of molecule 
forms of energy. In today’s world, these molecules are 
predominately related to natural gas and oil-based products. 
In tomorrow’s world, this should also include carbon dioxide 
molecules that will be reutilized or permanently stored, as well as hydrogen and water molecules which become important 
in the electrolyzers generating clean hydrogen. As the energy 
system integrates in new ways, we will increasingly see 
interactions between the electron and molecule grids. 
One key feature of low-carbon, renewable-dominated 
electricity systems is the use of batteries in large scale storage 
and end-use applications. Emerson participates across the 
breadth of the battery value chain – such as the mining of 
important minerals, processing of minerals into important 
components, battery assembly and sealing techniques, and 
control and remote management of large battery systems  
on and off the electricity grid.
Emerson is supporting CMBlu in its development of an 
organic redox flow carbon-based battery, a first of its 
kind. This battery approach promises to be more efficient, 
scalable and affordable than existing battery techniques. 
Targeted applications are focused on electric vehicle charging 
infrastructure and large-scale storage. Emerson is providing 
our Branson advanced joining technology to help ensure the 
integrity of the battery membrane seal. 
Electrification and 
System IntegrationEnergy Source 
Decarbonization
Emissions 
ManagementEnergy Efficiency 
and Optimization30
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityEnergy Efficiency and Optimization
Energy efficiency and optimization remains a critical sustainability 
strategy for the world. Only about one-third of the energy 
introduced into the energy system of today actually performs  
the function we are desiring – heating and cooling a home, 
moving a vehicle or cooking food. Two-thirds of the energy 
that goes into the energy system is lost through items like heat 
escaping through windows, brakes applied in vehicles, electrical 
line losses over long distances, various energy transformations 
and less-than-optimized processes. There is a major opportunity 
to continue enhancing energy efficiency as reflected in many of 
the roadmaps developed to deliver tomorrow’s energy system.
Emerson’s AVENTICS™ pneumatic sensors and Industrial  
Internet of Things-enabled software architecture monitor 
compressed air flow in real-time to identify leaks, optimize 
pneumatic processes and improve air flow efficiency. Using  
these technologies to optimize compressed air systems, Colgate 
has seen a 15% reduction in energy usage on several toothpaste 
and toothbrush packaging lines and expects significant impact  
as this technology is rolled out more widely.Emerson technologies are utilized to manage energy efficiency 
across a broad set of industries. Energy efficiency in refrigeration 
systems is a key driver of emission reductions for our customers 
and partners. To further improve the efficiency of refrigeration 
units, we recently introduced a new range of Copeland CO2 
refrigerant scroll compressors with smart electronics and new 
integrated Dynamic Vapor Injection technology. Specifically 
designed for small to medium-sized operations, this technology 
provides a new solution for CO2 booster systems that enables 
reduced complexity and costs at high efficiency in any climate. 
Emerson’s Sensi™ was the first smart thermostat to receive 
the ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year Award from the  
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 2020 — and won 
again in 2021 for the second consecutive year. The Partner 
of the Year Award represents the highest level of recognition 
by the EPA. Sensi™ enables customers to reduce their energy 
consumption without sacrificing comfort. Emerson has 
demand response partnerships featuring Sensi™ thermostats 
with utilities across North America.
Energy Efficiency 
and OptimizationEnergy Source 
Decarbonization
Emissions 
ManagementElectrification and 
System Integration31
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability31Emissions Management
While companies invest in new, cleaner energy alternatives, 
they must also look for other complementary ways to reduce 
emissions in the short, medium and long term. Emissions 
management technologies are being utilized to detect and 
measure emissions, prevent emissions leaks with enhanced 
equipment approaches and operate with more efficient 
combustion processes. 
New Emerson valve technologies are providing a major 
opportunity to avoid fugitive emissions. Enhanced valve designs, 
including highly efficient stem sealing systems, higher flow 
capacities and packing for temperature variations, meet or 
exceed the most stringent emissions requirements. In addition, 
advanced real-time monitoring of pressure relief valves and 
storage tanks helps identify and minimize emissions.
Carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) technology 
is emerging as an important capability for the roadmaps of 
tomorrow. Capturing carbon at the point of emission and either 
utilizing it in products or sequestering it safely in underground 
geological formations will be critical to getting to a net zero 
world. CCUS capacity is expected to grow from a handful of 
locations now to 2,000+ facilities by 2050 with governments  
and industry committing to significant investment.QatarEnergy has recently announced its new sustainability strategy, 
aiming to reduce the emissions intensity of its liquefied natural gas 
(LNG) facilities by 25%. They will be developing carbon capture and 
utilization processes leveraging its automation partnership with 
Emerson. Qatar is the world’s largest LNG producer and exporter 
and is in the process of building a large extension to increase LNG 
production by 40% while reducing its carbon footprint. 
LEVERAGING SOFTWARE   
FOR SUSTAINABILITY IMPACT
Emerson’s software offerings play an important role across 
environmental sustainability efforts. As a result, Emerson  
has been named the “Industrial IoT Company of the Year”  
by IoT Breakthrough — an honor we’ve received four of the 
last five years. Our automation technology and software 
innovation helps our customers in essential industries optimize 
their operations for better efficiency, safety, emissions and 
meeting environmental sustainability goals.
Emissions 
ManagementEnergy Source 
Decarbonization
Electrification and 
System Integration
Energy Efficiency 
and OptimizationBayoTech’s hydrogen generation units are being installed at hydrogen hub sites throughout the United States and other global locations.
32
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityEnabling Hydrogen Solutions
Hydrogen is an important strategy in the energy transition 
roadmaps of the world. Like electricity, hydrogen serves as an 
energy carrier. Hydrogen molecules are generated from other 
forms of primary energy and then transported and utilized in 
end-use applications. Emerson technologies are significantly 
involved in both the end-use cases as well as the generation, 
transportation and dispensing of hydrogen. 
In 2021, we began working with BayoTech, an innovator in 
distributed hydrogen solutions, to accelerate the availability 
of hydrogen for end-use cases in North America and Europe. 
Emerson is serving as BayoTech’s automation partner and is 
providing control system, instrumentation, valves and operations 
software to remotely manage BayoTech’s network of hydrogen 
generation hubs. BayoTech uses natural gas and renewable 
natural gas to generate hydrogen which can enable mobility  
and hard to abate sector hydrogen applications. 
In a large green hydrogen power generation application,  
Emerson is collaborating with Mitsubishi Power to provide 
automation systems for the transformation of the Intermountain 
Power Plant in Utah. This facility will feature hydroelectric, wind 
and solar electricity powering a large electrolyzer to generate 
hydrogen from water. The produced hydrogen will be stored 
underground in salt caverns so that it can be dispatched when 
required to power turbines that create electricity. The initial 
phase will utilize hydrogen blended with natural gas but will 
eventually transition to 100% green hydrogen. This is a strategic 
project as governments around the world build green hydrogen 
power generation into their roadmaps. Emerson is also participating in the PosHYdon consortium that 
is building the world’s first offshore green hydrogen production 
process on an existing platform operated by Neptune Energy 
in the Dutch sector of the North Sea. Emerson is developing 
an advanced control system that will integrate three important 
energy systems – offshore wind energy, offshore gas production 
and hydrogen generation from an electrolyzer utilizing seawater. 
The green hydrogen that is produced will be mixed with natural 
gas to leverage existing transportation infrastructure for use  
in the Netherlands’ gas networks.
Investing in Innovative Breakthrough Technology 
Emerson has committed to invest $100 million in Emerson 
Ventures, our corporate venture capital initiative designed  
to access and support early-stage technology development.  This investment commitment is focused on disruptive 
automation innovations, important environmental 
sustainability solutions and emerging industrial software 
technology for use in critical industries. Our objective is to 
invest in four to six early-stage startups each year over the 
next five years.
Greening By Emerson is where we can have the biggest impact —  
helping critical industries and applications leverage the power of 
automation and novel solutions to deliver the low-carbon energy 
system transition. The challenge and urgency of the climate 
crisis is real. Given Emerson’s vantage point and involvement in 
projects throughout the energy system, we are optimistic that 
the world can come together to make net zero a reality.33
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityEngaging our Governments and Policy Groups
Emerson recognizes that partnerships with governments, 
industry groups and other leading organizations are key 
to achieving our shared sustainability ambitions. We 
continue to be an active voice in groups such as UK FIRES, 
IfM Sustainability Association, the Association of Energy 
Engineers and the EPA’s Energy Star Partnership. We have 
also joined several organizations specifically dedicated 
to collaboration and achieving shared decarbonization 
goals, including: 
• Business Ambition for 1.5°C partnership, which 
features companies committing to both a near-term 
science-based target alongside an explicit longer-term 
net zero commitment. 
• RE100 and the Clean Energy Buyer’s Association 
(CEBA) as they bring together global businesses 
committed to sourcing 100% renewable electricity.
• Renewable Natural Gas Coalition, which advocates  
for sustainable development, deployment and 
utilization of renewable natural gas.Emerson is utilizing its unique technical perspective  
and global reach to collaborate with governments and policy 
groups, research institutions, non-government organizations, 
industry associations and communities to discuss the way 
forward to a more sustainable future. These discussions 
frequently feature important dialogues on innovations,  
policy options, supporting at-scale implementations of  
novel solutions and formulating essential strategies for  
the roadmaps to a net zero world. Emerson’s collaboration  
efforts are driven by three main strategies: Collaborating   
for a Net Zero World:  
Greening With Emerson
Engaging our Governments 
and Policy Groups
Collaborating with Leading 
Research Institutions
Convening Leaders  
and Communities1
2
32021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental Sustainability34EMERSON EUROPEAN   
POLICY ENGAGEMENT
Emerson has been actively engaged in various 
European policy initiatives, primarily as part  
of the European Union’s (EU) Green Deal,  
a package of policy initiatives aimed at making  
the EU climate neutral by 2050. We utilize 
a proactive and collaborative approach to 
engaging with governments by sharing practical 
considerations and ideas for implementation 
that can enhance the likelihood of broader 
adoption. Emerson recently engaged with the 
EU Commission on two important legislative 
proposals: a methane regulation to prevent 
leakage in the energy sector, and a policy  
package on hydrogen and decarbonized gas 
markets. We regularly engage in dialogues 
with both EU-level policymakers and Member 
State officials to help inform how digitalization, 
automation and other Emerson-enabled solutions 
can support their own net zero objectives.COLLABORATING TO ACCELERATE CLIMATE ACTION
Americas Europe Asia & MEA
GOVERNMENT  
& POLICYGOVERNMENT  
& POLICYGOVERNMENT  
& POLICYINNOVATION  
& INDUSTRYINNOVATION  
& INDUSTRYINNOVATION  
& INDUSTRY
Air-Conditioning, 
Heating, and 
Refrigeration 
Institute (AHRI)
Carbon 
Management 
Canada
Energy Policy 
Research 
Foundation Inc. 
(EPRINC)
Environmental 
Protection Agency 
(EPA)
U.S. Department 
of EnergyEuropean Clean 
Hydrogen 
Alliance
European 
Heat Pump 
Association 
(EHPA)
European 
Partnership for 
Energy and the 
Environment 
(EPEE)
European Raw 
Materials Alliance 
(ERMA)
France  
HydrogèneAustralian 
Hydrogen 
Council
Emirates Green 
Building Council 
H2 Korea 
(Hydrogen 
Korea)
Republic of Korea 
Ministry of 
Trade, Industry 
and Energy
U.S. India 
Strategic 
Partnership 
ForumClean Energy 
Smart 
Manufacturing 
Innovation 
Institute 
(CESMII)
National 
Renewable 
Energy 
Laboratory 
(NREL)
Oak Ridge  
National  
Laboratory
Texas  
A&M  
University
The Conference 
Board of 
CanadaEMB3RS  
Heat and Cold 
matching 
platform
Resource  
Efficiency  
Collective
Sustainability 
Association
United  
Kingdom’s  
Future Industrial 
Resource  
Efficiency 
Strategy  
(UK FIRES)
University of 
Cambridge Nanyang 
Technological 
University 
Singapore
The Energy 
and Resources 
Institute (TERI)
Tongji  
University 
Tsinghua 
University35
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityCollaborating with Leading Research Institutions
PARTNERING WITH THE   
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY LABORATORIES  
FOR INCREASED ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Emerson continues to serve as a trusted partner of the U.S. 
Department of Energy to develop more sustainable climate 
technologies and energy management. We are currently engaged 
in nine different projects with Oak Ridge National Lab to increase 
energy efficiency in applications such as novel heat pump 
architectures, lower cost cooling mechanisms, and geothermal 
storage and heating.
We also partner with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory 
(NREL) to advance research and development of the operational 
efficiency of buildings and building systems. NREL is developing 
grid-interactive building technology that strengthens the 
resiliency, efficiency and affordability of energy systems. 
Partnerships like these allow Emerson to share our extensive 
knowledge in areas such as building energy management, 
sensing, refrigeration and air conditioning to collaborate in the 
development of innovative solutions and policies that will shape 
the future. By bringing together our shared R&D resources, these 
partnerships can increase the speed to market for newer, more 
sustainable solutions. ACCELERATING HYDROGEN PROGRESS
Emerson is an active participant in several local hydrogen groups 
and alliances around the world focused on the advancement of 
hydrogen as a clean energy solution. These groups include the 
European Clean Hydrogen Alliance, the Australian Hydrogen 
Council, CENELEC, Hydrogen Connexion by Business France, 
Norwegian Hydrogen Association, H2AR in Argentina and the 
Korean Hydrogen Convergence Alliance (H2KOREA). 
In 2021, Emerson Korea was elected to lead the hydrogen 
equipment committee of The Korea Hydrogen Industry 
Association (KHIA). This work includes leading research  
and development projects with the Korea Marine Equipment 
Research Institute, organizing a major hydrogen solution 
seminar, advocating for policy and regulatory approaches,  
and joining the H2Town project in the city of Ulsan as part  
of the country’s effort to build a hydrogen industry hub.FACILITATING INDUSTRY POLICY DIALOGUES
Emerson regularly participates in policy discussions to support 
government and customers decision making. Through our 
E360 initiative, we facilitate industry-wide dialogues, foster 
collaboration among stakeholders and address the practical 
implementation challenges facing the heating, ventilation,  
air conditioning and refrigeration (HVACR) industry. 
ENHANCING CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE  
IN AUSTRALIA  
Emerson is collaborating with the Australian Research Council’s 
Research Hub for Resilient and Intelligent Infrastructure 
Systems. The Research Hub is positioned to trial and deliver 
transformational technologies to address Australia’s critical 
infrastructure needs, integrating Emerson’s advanced solutions 
in monitoring and modeling to improve sustainability outcomes 
in key sectors including mining, gas, water and energy.Members of Emerson 
Korea’s hydrogen equipment 
committee in the KHIA pose  
for a group photo.36
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Environmental SustainabilityConvening Leaders and Communities 
ADVOCATING FOR   
CLIMATE ACTION IN GLOBAL FORUMS
Chief Sustainability Officer Mike Train participated in  
the Sustainable Innovation Forum hosted by Climate  
Action at the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26)  
in November 2021. COP26 was the largest global climate 
gathering to date with focus on accelerating action toward  
the Paris Climate Goals for net zero. Mike joined multiple  
panels to discuss Emerson’s approach to environmental 
sustainability goals, as well as broad climate related topics  
such as abating hard-to-abate sectors, engaging small- and 
medium-sized enterprises in the energy transition, and 
exploring important solutions and challenges to  
achieve net zero.
EMERSON’S CLUJ CAMPUS CELEBRATES   
15 YEARS OF SUSTAINABILITY GROWTH   
AND INNOVATION
In 2021, the Emerson Cluj Campus in Romania celebrated its 
15-year anniversary and launched an integrated sustainability 
approach at the business and employee level. This initiative 
includes connecting employees to information, workshops, 
discussions and tools to take action to reduce environmental 
impact in the local community. Activities included colleagues 
volunteering in community events such as a riverbank cleanup 
and attending the AIESEC – Youth Speak Forum to empower 
young people to speak up for climate change. Greening With Emerson is an important strategy for 
engagement, dialogue, advocacy and amplification with key 
stakeholders around the world. These discussions help build 
broad support for making progress in deploying early novel 
solutions at-scale to learn about technical, economic and 
policy challenges and options. The faster we can make these 
important, early-stage projects happen, the sooner we can 
validate whether and how these solutions will be major 
contributors to delivering a net zero world. Emerson colleagues at the Sustainable Innovation Forum  
at COP26 (left to right): Dina Koepke (Director Governmental 
Affairs, Commercial & Residential Solutions), Rada 
Petrovan  (Director of Strategic Planning, Automation 
Solutions), Mike Train (Senior Vice President and  
Chief Sustainability Officer), Veronica Constantin   
(Vice President, Global Sustainability), Ana Gonzalez 
Hernandez  (Director Of Sustainability). There is a real and tangible 
pathway to decarbonization and,  
ultimately, net zero, but we must  
embrace the technologies and  
solutions available today if we want  
to reach the scale required to 
achieve our ultimate ambitions.”“
— Mike Train  
Hear more from Mike’s interview  
at the Sustainable Innovation Forum here .Social   
Responsibility38
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social ResponsibilityModernizing Our Culture and   
Driving Diversity, Equity and Inclusion  
At Emerson, we are building a diverse, inclusive and equitable culture where  
every employee is valued for their unique experiences and perspectives. 
We have three strategic goals regarding Diversity, Equity  
and Inclusion:
The innovative ideas and solutions that we pursue at Emerson 
require a rich and diverse exchange of perspectives. We are 
focused on building a culture that empowers employees to bring 
their most authentic selves to work every day and make impact  
in our business. Investing in people is key to driving the success  
of Emerson around the world. Building an inclusive environment  
where everyone belongs
Elevating the representation of women  
and underrepresented populations
Demonstrating our commitment  
to DE&I and the impact of our work1
2
3
We convened a leadership taskforce with broad perspectives 
focused on assessing our current culture and processes and  
have established critical initiatives to modernize our culture.  
We are reviewing all aspects of the management process 
through this lens and implementing changes that are more 
efficient, more flexible and better empower our people.  
These changes should further enhance the strong Emerson 
cultural elements of operational excellence and delivering  
on commitments.As a global organization, having a workforce that reflects 
the communities we serve is important to delivering on our 
Purpose. In June 2021, we announced a longer-term diversity 
target to double the representation of women globally to 
40% of our leadership, and U.S. minorities to 30% of our 
leadership by the year 2030. This target is challenging for 
the technical industries we participate in and will require 
significant focus and intentional actions in all aspects of our 
talent process: building stronger talent pools, developing  
our people, constructing Diverse Slates for open positions, 
driving metrics and rewarding progress. 
At Emerson, we know that real change takes both 
commitment and sustained effort at every level of our 
organization. We started at the top with the external 
recruitment and appointment of Elizabeth Adefioye, our 
new Chief People Officer. Elizabeth brings a rich set of 
experiences from other technically oriented multinational 
companies and has jumped right into the mission. 2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social Responsibility39ELEVATING THE REPRESENTATION OF  
WOMEN AND UNDERREPRESENTED  
POPULATIONS
The talent needs of Emerson reflect the industries we serve 
in our business. Emerson is a technology company with a 
focus on developing and manufacturing innovative products, 
solutions, software and services. We utilize talent across a 
wide spectrum of roles: hardware development, software 
development, project management, operations, supply chain, 
finance, legal, sales, service, compliance, human resources  
and more. Attracting these talents to Emerson is a critical 
strategy for our long-term success.
To expand our diverse talent pipeline for salaried positions  
in the U.S., we are continuing to build our Diverse Slates 
program with an enterprise goal of interview slates having  at least 50% diverse candidates. We track Diverse Slates metrics 
and build diverse participation in our interview approach as well.
We engage in several efforts to expand the pool of diverse 
candidates from inside and outside Emerson. These targeted 
recruiting efforts include: 
WOMEN
Our university and professional organization recruiting efforts 
aim to reach women talent with engineering and Master of 
Business Administration degrees. Emerson continues to be 
a strong supporter and advocate for the Society of Women 
Engineers (SWE), the leading global organization dedicated 
to the advancement of women engineers. We recruit women 
engineering talent at SWE conferences and job fairs. MINORITIES  
Our career fair recruiting efforts aim to identify qualified U.S. 
minority candidates for entry- and executive-level positions. 
This year, Emerson served as the gold sponsor for the HBCU 
Career Development Marketplaces’ annual career fair. Led 
by our Black Employee Alliance Employee Resource Group, 
Emerson representatives connected directly with the talent 
pool to recruit and educate them on the robust career 
opportunities available at Emerson. 
MILITARY VETERANS  
Our veteran-focused MBA recruiting events and foundation 
partnerships aim to provide post-military job opportunities 
for military veterans. To expand our reach, we also actively 
work with Hiring Our Heroes, a nationwide effort to connect 
veterans, service members and military spouses with 
meaningful employment opportunities. 
LGBTQ+
Our conference-focused recruiting efforts aim to engage 
LGBTQ+ talent. Our LGBTQ + Allies Employee Resource Group 
participated in the Out for Undergrad Engineering Conference 
in September 2021, and the ROMBA Conference (Reaching 
Out LGBTQ+ MBA) in October 2021 to recruit talented LGBTQ+ 
professionals across all levels of the organization. EMERSON WORKFORCE   
DIVERSITY LEADERSHIP  
REPRESENTATION
In this dataset, leadership is defined as individuals at the director level and above. Global data reflects countries that are included in our human resources information system 
and excludes countries not yet transitioned onto the core system including Belarus, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Latvia, Luxembourg, Scotland, Serbia and the Slovak 
Republic. Employees who joined Emerson as the result of recent acquisitions outside of the United States may also be excluded from this data set. 
Minorities include: Asian, American Indian or Alaska Native, Black or African American, Hispanic, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races. U.S. Minority  Global Women  
16% FISCAL YEAR ‘21
‘30 GOAL 30%20% FISCAL YEAR ‘21
‘30 GOAL 40%2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social Responsibility40BUILD AN INCLUSIVE ENVIRONMENT   
WHERE EVERYONE BELONGS
At Emerson, we know that real change takes both commitment 
and effort at all levels of our organization. In the last year, we 
accelerated momentum to build a company culture that is 
inclusive, strong and ready to innovate. Our leadership task 
force participated in a four-month engagement to establish 
new goals and initiatives to enhance our diverse workforce. 
With our focus on an inclusive culture, we engaged our  
global employees in new and exciting ways that encourage 
connection across differences. 
Dialogue and Recognition
We expanded “Courageous Conversations,” a series of regional 
diversity, equity and inclusion-focused forums promoting open 
dialogue among colleagues and their leaders. 
We also launched a new employee-specific DE&I Award that 
highlights groups, individuals or business units that have made 
significant contributions to DE&I throughout the organization.
CELEBRATING DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION  
Our new DE&I Award aims to celebrate groups, individuals or business units that demonstrate a 
commitment to fostering a culture where every employee is valued and respected. The inaugural 
winner of the award was the Persons with a Disability ERG at the Emerson Plant in Reynosa, 
Mexico, which launched in 2019. In addition to educational programs and community  
outreach events, the ERG assisted in recruiting diversely abled employees.
41
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social ResponsibilityEmployee Resource Groups
Over the past few years, we have built Employee Resource 
Groups (ERGs) into a strong network that supports our 
focus on inclusion. These groups are led at the company 
and regional levels by passionate volunteers from across the 
organization and sponsored by executive leadership. These 
groups have been built organically from the bottom up and 
have now grown to nearly 12,000 members.
Our ERG leaders across Emerson came together for an annual 
multi-day ERG Leadership Summit to share best practices 
around event building, membership engagement and career 
development. Successes from the 2021 summit included 
development of centralized ERG signup for all ERGs, expanded 
network partnerships, dedicated communication campaigns 
and recognition of ERG leadership involvement in Talent 
Profiles. Our Employee Resource Groups consist of:
 
Our Asian & Pacific Islander Alliance 
now numbers more than 900 members 
across seven different chapters. The 
organization launched in May 2021 to provide a platform to 
amplify voices, spotlight contributions and foster relationships 
between our Asian and Pacific Islander colleagues, as well 
as serve as a channel for all colleagues to learn about the 
culture, history and experiences of our Asian and Pacific  
Islander brothers and sisters. The Black Employee Alliance provides 
a support network for Black colleagues 
while enabling opportunities to drive 
strategic recruiting, retention and advancement initiatives. Over 
the course of this past year, the organization began several new 
initiatives, including a recruitment partnership with HBCU Career 
Development Marketplace and an inaugural employee mentorship 
program. Through these efforts, the Black Employee Alliance has 
grown to over 880 members across eight different chapters. 
 
Diverse Abilities launched in December 
2021 and has over 390 members. The 
group encourages awareness around perceived impairments 
and/or disabilities and highlights the effect of discrimination 
and social exclusion on individuals. As the group develops, 
its goal is to educate colleagues on diverse abilities, cultivate 
a network of support and provide more opportunities for 
networking and collaboration between groups. 
 
LGBTQ + Allies empowers our employees 
in the LGBTQ+ community and their 
workplace allies to foster a diverse and inclusive company 
culture. This year, the group was recognized by Out & Equal as 
a finalist for their “New Employee Resource Group of Year Outie 
Award.” In less than two years, our LGBTQ + Allies Employee 
Resource Group has grown 12 chapters and has built a member 
base of more than 1,000 employees across 35 countries. Launched in July 2021, Mosaic has 
already reached a membership of over 
950 employees. Mosaic is a multicultural 
organization that fosters community for people working away 
from their home country. The mission of the organization is 
to promote strategic retention of talented individuals with 
diverse cultural and ethnic origins along with supporting  
them in their career growth. 42
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social ResponsibilitySomos focuses on support and 
engagement initiatives on behalf 
of our Hispanic and Latin American 
employees. In 2021, Somos celebrated its one-year 
anniversary as an organization with over 1,350 members 
and several new projects, including a new mentorship 
program, a roundtable conversation on the social  
impact of Hispanic ERGs and a new ERG video.
 
Our veterans group raises awareness 
of the value U.S. military veterans 
bring to our organization, with  
10 official chapters and more than 500 members. In 2021, 
new initiatives included an ERG-wide newsletter, and the 
Veterans Career Page on the Emerson website, which 
serves as a channel for veteran employees to discuss 
the transition to civilian careers and the professional 
opportunities available for veterans at Emerson.
 The Women’s Impact Network provides support and networking 
opportunities for women employees around the globe. In 2021, the 
6,000-member group reached a milestone of 100 chapters across the 
organization. In addition to the ERG’s growth, the Women’s Impact Network has helped push 
Emerson forward as an organization, by helping to increase the number of women in leadership 
positions, hosting regular webinars and attracting a new generation of women in STEM to the 
company through partnerships with the Society of Women Engineers and several universities. 
The Women’s Impact Network celebrates 100 chapters.43
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social Responsibility%100
Emerson earned 100% 
on the Human Rights 
Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index related 
to LGBTQ workplace 
equality in 2022. DEMONSTRATING OUR COMMITMENT   
TO DE&I AND THE IMPACT OF OUR WORK
Since 2017, more than 25,000 employees have participated in diversity awareness and 
unconscious bias training, including all upper-level management. Following the Emerson Values 
Framework of training, we are actively developing and updating our global training curriculum  
that focuses on the ever-emerging DE&I trends. 
Our senior leaders are utilizing the Intercultural Development Inventory® (IDI), an online 
assessment tool that helps build cultural understanding, shift perspectives on diversity  
issues and enhance skills in managing cultural differences. After leaders complete the IDI,  
reports are provided with guidance on increasing cultural self-understanding and incorporating  
cross-cultural interaction strategies. We have over 500 leaders who have completed IDI to date. 44
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social ResponsibilityEMERSON EMPLOYEES MAKING AN IMPACT:  
Supporting an Inclusive Culture
Lieny Jang, a Marketing Director based in Hong Kong, has been 
a member of the Women’s Impact Network since 2013, when 
the ERG began expanding into new countries throughout Asia. 
Lieny is proud of the group’s development of culturally relevant 
ways to uplift and support women across the organization, 
such as the WeChat support groups in China and collaborations 
with the National Association for Women Engineers in India.
As a member of the Executive Committee for the Women’s 
Impact Network, Lieny has collaborated with colleagues across 
the company to create educational initiatives, including an 
inclusive training video for managers, an annual report for the 
Women’s Impact Network and STEM Career presentations for 
young school children. Lieny’s work for the Women’s Impact 
Network reflects her pride in Emerson, especially as the 
company strives to create an inclusive and engaging  
workplace culture around the world.
Lieny Jang  shares her passion for STEM with local schoolchildren. 
45
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social Responsibility
EMPLOYEE OPINION   
AND CULTURE SURVEYS  
Insights from our colleagues help shape and drive the success 
of our business and our employee relations. Emerson has 
conducted employee opinion surveys for more than six decades 
to continually foster strong employee engagement. The annual 
survey highlights vital employee perspectives across a range of 
topics, including engagement, satisfaction and work-life balance. 
Both salaried and hourly employees across the global 
organization have consistently rated Emerson as “Excellent” 
in our annual survey scores. Real value comes from repeating 
this process regularly and following up locally with employees 
regarding results, comments and initiatives going forward. In 
2021, we emphasized three focus areas for a monthly employee 
survey: engagement, COVID-19 and diversity. We wanted 
employees to feel connected and informed despite a year of 
global uncertainty. For each area, employees gave scores above 
the “Excellent” threshold throughout the year. +
“ ”26,322Employee Opinion 
Survey Highlights
Excellent%Participation in the surveyEmployees participated in the survey 
Highest Rated Categories:  
COVID-19 “Excellent”  
and Safety “Excellent” 90Employee Engagement
Our employees are our greatest strength, and we continually provide  
avenues where employees can share their valuable perspective.46
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social ResponsibilityLABOR RELATIONS  
We respect our employees’ right to freedom of association 
in choosing labor organizations to represent them. We work 
collaboratively to keep positive relationships with the unions, 
works councils and employee associations that represent 
many of our employees. In the United States, approximately 
6% of our workforce was part of a union in 2021. Worldwide, 
approximately 30% of our employees are represented by an 
employee representative organization, such as a union,  
works council or employee association. WAGES AND BENEFITS  
At Emerson, we work to retain and grow our exceptional global workforce. We uphold our value 
of Support Our People by providing competitive wages and benefits in the markets where we 
operate around the world. Our compensation practices comply with applicable wage laws and 
international standards, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime compensation  
and legally mandated benefits. The basis on which workers are paid is documented in a timely 
manner via pay stub or similar written communication. 
In the United States, we offer a standard benefits package for full-time employees that includes 
healthcare, life insurance, disability coverage, paid parental leave and access to a retirement 
savings program. In other countries, our benefits packages for full-time employees vary in 
accordance with legal mandates, but all include paid parental leave. We have also recently  
added telehealth coverage to help employees better connect to medical resources. 
PAID PARENTAL LEAVE  
Having a work-life balance and ample family time is critical to our well-being. Our paid leave 
policy for new parents across our company outlines time off by determining the primary 
caregiver. When welcoming a new child into the home, either through birth or adoption, 
Emerson employees who identify as the primary caregiver receive 12 consecutive weeks of 
paid parental leave with 100% pay upon the birth or adoption. Employees who wish to support 
their spouses or partners during this time as a secondary caregiver can receive two weeks of 
paid parental leave within six months of birth or adoption. In countries where the minimum 
standards of applicable law exceed our new policies, Emerson complies with the law. 
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social Responsibility47EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM  
Our Employee Assistance Program offers a variety of resources 
to make sure our employees are supported in challenging times. 
This year we introduced the Emerson Cares initiative, which 
houses the Support Our People Fund, dedicated to providing 
financial assistance for any Emerson employee in need for 
reasons such as natural disaster, damage to primary residence, 
or death of employee or family member. Under the Emerson 
Cares umbrella, this new fund joins our existing Employee 
Assistance Program, which we expanded globally to provide  
all Emerson employees with mental health resources. 
DISCRIMINATION AND HARASSMENT  
We value the contributions of all employees and do not 
tolerate any discrimination or harassment. This is reinforced 
in our annual ethics training that is required for all employees. 
Emerson is an equal opportunity employer, committed to 
recruit, hire, train and promote people in all job classifications 
without regard to sex, race, color, religion, national origin, age, 
marital status, political affiliation, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, disability or protected veteran 
status. We do not condone any form of discrimination or 
harassment on the basis of these and other protected classes. 
HUMAN RIGHTS  
In our business operations around the world, Emerson  
remains deeply committed to respecting and promoting  
human rights, which are essential to a healthy and vital 
commercial environment and to the broader society.  
This entails specific attention to particularly challenging  
issues and activities, including: 
Commitment to Humane Treatment 
We do not allow or condone any form of harsh or inhumane 
treatment, including sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal 
punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal abuse, nor  
do we allow managers to threaten treatment of this nature. Prohibition of Forced Labor 
Our policies prohibit, and we do not use, any forced, bonded, 
indentured, involuntary prison labor or other compulsory labor. 
We also prohibit our suppliers from using any forced, bonded, 
indentured, involuntary prison labor or other compulsory labor. 
Our policies comply with important regulations, like the UK 
Modern Slavery Act 2015. Emerson fully supports these and 
other efforts to eradicate human trafficking across the globe. 
Prohibition of Child Labor 
Our policies oppose child labor, and we do not use child labor 
in any facility or business. Emerson requires that all employees 
be of an appropriate age, as defined by applicable local and 
national laws. In certain circumstances, we support the use of 
legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs that conform 
with laws and regulations. We also prohibit our suppliers from 
employing anyone under the local legal working age. 48
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social Responsibility
Training and Development  
Our programs equip colleagues with the knowledge, skills  
and training required to reach their greatest potential. 
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT   
AT EMERSON
Our people are critical to our business, and we know each person 
has individual development objectives to meet their professional 
goals. To support our global workforce with their learning and 
development needs, we offer workshops through a variety of 
delivery methods, including e-learning, virtual instructor-led  
and in-person training. Particularly in 2021, this virtual option 
was essential as employees continued to socially distance. 
Our leadership development offerings focus on the different 
inflection points in one’s career journey; building skillsets 
from developing oneself to leading across the enterprise. Each 
workshop focuses on developing specific competencies that 
each map to one of Emerson’s seven core values. By applying 
the knowledge and skills developed during these programs, 
our employees are better equipped to amplify Emerson’s 
values and causes. In 2021 we hosted over 300 workshops  
and trained more than 5,000 leaders globally.
In 2018 we launched our Rising Leaders Program, a fast-paced  
learning experience for high potential employees. Through Emerson uses a holistic, integrated approach to training  
and development of our employees. Our 70/20/10 
Development Framework provides our teams with the 
competencies and skills to advance their careers. Under this 
framework, work experience makes up 70% of an employee’s 
development; relationships and feedback account for 20% 
of development helping to build each employee’s internal 
network; and focused training comprises 10% of development, 
equipping employees with relevant knowledge and skills. this 12-month journey, participants come together to gain 
perspective on topics such as building an inclusive environment, 
having a leadership mindset and being your authentic self. 
This program is delivered by leaders in each of our world areas, 
providing a consistent learning experience for participants while 
allowing for an element of flexibility based on local needs. 
PERFORMANCE REVIEWS  
All salaried employees and their supervisors conduct an 
annual performance review, focusing on performance, 
development and competency-based goals. Hourly workers 
are also expected to have similar conversations, reviewing 
their performance as it relates to their job categories. Our 
process uses a global competency framework for employee 
performance and development planning. We also utilize a 
global training and toolkit resource guide to equip managers 
and employees with the support they need to have effective 
performance discussions. 49
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social ResponsibilityWorkforce Development
Emerson has a longstanding commitment to supporting efforts to train the  
next generation of innovators and to strengthen the skilled trades workforce. 
Our initiatives to support workforce development include 
our company’s training and educational programs offered to 
customers using our technologies and our support for hundreds 
of universities and technical colleges around the world that 
provide academic training.
EMERSON EDUCATIONAL SERVICES  
Emerson provides a range of training solutions for companies  
and customers to improve skills and adapt to new technology.
To support customers in the HVACR industry, our Commercial 
& Residential Solutions educational services program offers 
a variety of ways to participate, including virtual instructor-led 
sessions, online courses and in-person classroom education with 
appropriate protocols. Contractors, wholesalers, end-users and 
original equipment manufacturers in the HVACR industry have 
the opportunity to participate in free, live and recorded training 
on Emerson products including Copeland™ compressors for 
refrigeration and air conditioning as well as Lumity™ refrigeration 
and facility controls. Customers are also able to take advantage  
of continued free access to online training courses – many of  
which are North American Technical Excellence (NATE) certified. 
Our Automation Solutions educational services program 
accelerated its transition to virtual instructor-led learning.  
We offer a range of instruction from virtual to blended to  
in-person courses, ensuring we have flexible delivery methods 
to reflect the varying preferences of our customers. With the 
launch of MyTraining, our Automation Solutions customers  
have access to integrated education solutions to optimize  
their Emerson technologies. Emerson is an accredited provider  
by the International Association for Continuing Education  
and Training (IACET). 
9,616 customers participated 
in our Automation Solutions 
training program during 2021 for 
a total of 239,779 training hours. 50
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social ResponsibilityUNIVERSITY AND TECHNICAL   
COLLEGE PROGRAMS
Emerson partners with hundreds of universities and colleges 
around the world to provide the curriculum, products and 
training needed for students to succeed in the industries of 
tomorrow. A few examples include:
COCKRELL SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING –  
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN  
We’re proud to sponsor the Texas Rocket Engineering Laboratory 
(TREL) in the Cockrell School of Engineering at The University of 
Texas at Austin. As part of the sponsorship, Emerson is donating 
our TESCOM regulators that students will use to fabricate their 
Halcyon rocket. More than 300 TREL engineers and students  
have benefited from the project over the past two years. 
OZARKS TECHNICAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE  
(SPRINGFIELD, MO)  
Emerson has pledged $500,000 toward the establishment of 
a Center for Advanced Manufacturing being planned at the 
Ozarks Technical Community College (OTC). The center will 
provide training and education in robotics, mechatronics and 
automation, along with other modern manufacturing methods. 
Emerson’s manufacturing facilities in the nearby communities  
of Lebanon and Ava have hired more than 30 OTC graduates  
in recent years.ST. CLOUD STATE UNIVERSITY (ST. CLOUD, MN)
Emerson, through our measurement instrumentation team in the Twin Cities area, has worked 
closely with St. Cloud State University for more than 15 years. In addition to advising St. Cloud 
State’s engineering curriculum, we are currently funding undergraduate research and training 
projects related to software design for advanced wired and wireless measurement devices used  
in the process industry.
UNIVERSITY PARTNERSHIPS IN CLUJ-NAPOCA, ROMANIA
Our major manufacturing and shared-services facility located in Cluj-Napoca, Romania has  
long-term partnerships with the city’s two major universities (Technical University of Cluj-Napoca 
and Babes-Bolyai University). This past year we donated various Emerson technologies to the 
universities for use in their engineering training programs.51
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social Responsibility
Our technology helps create more productive, efficient  
and secure environments.
SUPPORTING HEALTHIER LIVES
Lumity™ brand helps keep critical temperature-sensitive  
products safe
Our Lumity™ brand of analytics software and digital solutions 
help ensure that food, medications and other critical products 
remain safe for consumers by maintaining specific temperatures 
during transportation and storage. Lumity monitoring 
capabilities track conditions like temperature and humidity in  
real time, enabling companies to make necessary adjustments  
to protect the quality and safety of sensitive products. 
Equity investment into Fluxa helps improve time-to-market  
for new medicines
Combining our leading life science capabilities with Fluxa’s 
Process and Knowledge Management software, Emerson aims Industry Stewardship
Emerson delivers solutions for the world’s most critical industries that  
advance the safety, comfort, health and quality of life for all people. 
to help accelerate the timeline for R&D and production of new 
medicines. This technology enables time and resource-saving 
capabilities, including the scaling of pharmaceutical recipes 
for manufacturing, technology transfers and enterprise-grade 
security across systems. 
Rapid innovation in the life science development and 
manufacturing process has compressed a cycle that previously 
averaged eight years to less than two years through expedited 
research and development and automation technologies.
Gem City Market partnership brings fresh food to underserved area
A new solution from our Helix Innovation Center in Dayton, 
Ohio, was deployed in the local community to help address 
malnutrition. In collaboration with Chemours and Hussmann, 
Emerson donated an innovative Copeland scroll refrigeration 
architecture to Gem City Market, a collaborative grocery store 
located within a “food desert” in Dayton. The USDA classifies a 
“food desert” as an area with a 20% or greater poverty rate where 
a third of residents live one mile or more from grocery stores. 52
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social ResponsibilityPOWERING THE FUTURE   
THROUGH INNOVATION  
Emerson’s brands and technologies reframe how our 
customers approach their operations. In areas such as waste, 
HVACR or refrigerants, we identify opportunities to meet 
safety and comfort needs more sustainably. 
Agreement with PureCycle expands recycling capabilities
Emerson is supporting progress in plastics recycling through  
a partnership with PureCycle Technologies. Emerson is 
providing advanced digital technologies and automation  
for a network of global facilities that will enable large-scale 
recycling of polypropylene plastic back to a form for re-use  
in plastic packaging applications. More than 170 billion tons  
of polypropylene are produced each year with less than  
1% typically recycled or reused. 
A major milestone for our Copeland brand
Emerson’s Copeland brand of compressor technologies for 
air conditioning and refrigeration celebrated its 100-year 
anniversary. This milestone arrives as we celebrate the 
completion of a multimillion-dollar, 110,000 square feet 
expansion of our Sidney, Ohio, engineering facility. 
This expansion reinforces Copeland’s commitment to 
finding sustainable HVACR solutions with lower global 
warming potential (GWP) refrigerants that keep our 
customers safe and comfortable.
53
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social Responsibility
Emerson’s corporate philanthropy is focused primarily on 
the communities where we operate. Through our charitable 
contributions and employee volunteerism, we seek to help  
make our communities better and more attractive places  
to live and work for all residents.Corporate Philanthropy
Emerson’s corporate philanthropy seeks to strengthen our  
communities and to create a more equitable future for all.
In 2021, Emerson and the Emerson Charitable Trust made 
contributions totaling nearly $24 million to more than  
1,100 charities, nonprofit organizations, and educational 
institutions and for the company’s scholarships and teacher 
recognition programs. 
Transitioning Our U.S. Philanthropy Focus to Education Equity Needs 
Over the past decade, Emerson has made charitable contributions 
totaling more than $300 million to a wide range of causes in 
our local communities across the United States. Building on this 
record of support for community improvement, we are ready  
to begin our next phase of giving to drive an even deeper,  
 long-lasting impact in our communities. 
As part of Emerson’s vision to create a more equitable future  
for all, Emerson has pledged $200 million of our charitable giving 
over the next 10 years to address education inequities in the 
communities where we operate. Starting in fiscal 2022,  Emerson and the Emerson Charitable Trust will shift 
charitable giving primarily toward initiatives related to the 
developmental and educational experience of children and 
youth, from early childhood through high school. We will 
prioritize funding of initiatives targeting under-resourced 
communities to help create better, more equitable outcomes 
for all. We look forward to providing further updates on this 
commitment in future ESG reports. 2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social Responsibility54EMERSON PHILANTHROPY   
AROUND THE WORLD
Emerson is committed to making a difference in the countries 
and communities where we operate around the world.  
Examples of some of our philanthropic activities in India and 
China are outlined below. Visit our website to learn more  
about our global philanthropy efforts.
INDIA CSR PROGRAM  
Over the past four years, Emerson’s India corporate social 
responsibility strategy has shifted to focus on education-
related initiatives and to improve the communities where 
Emerson operates. For example, we partnered with Learning 
Links Foundation to setup Tinkering STEAM (science, 
technology, engineering, the arts and math) labs in locations 
across India. Additionally, we are supporting programs offered  
by Magic Bus Foundation, Massoom and Lend-A-Hand India 
(LAHI) for secondary life skills development, employability  
and vocational training.
CHINA CSR PROGRAM
Emerson is a longtime corporate supporter of a Red Cross 
program to help children with congenital heart disease living 
in undeveloped areas of Southwest and Northwest China. 
Emerson also supports the China Red Cross Foundation, 
funding establishment and training for campus medical clinics  
at 10 rural schools in Midwest China. Over the past two years,  
this initiative has helped provide basic medical services and 
physical exams for more than 20,000 students.SUPPORT OUR PEOPLE FUND
In 2021, we launched the employee-focused Support Our 
People Fund, named after Emerson’s core value of Support 
Our People, to help employees globally who face financial 
hardship. The Fund is being financed through annual 
support from the Emerson Charitable Trust and individual 
donations from employees. To raise employee awareness, 
Emerson launched the fund with a challenge match, 
matching over $100,000 of employee donations to the 
Fund. We also introduced employee payroll deductions  
to allow employees to auto-donate to the Fund. 55
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social ResponsibilitySTEM Education
Emerson is playing a lead role in our local communities and globally  
to help prepare our future leaders with STEM-related education  
and to raise awareness of career opportunities in these fields.
WE LOVE STEM
Our longstanding “We Love STEM” campaign to increase 
support for science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) 
education and awareness of career opportunities has reached 
thousands of children in 12 countries, and activities led by 
employee volunteers continued in 2021 in a virtual format due 
to the ongoing global pandemic. Here are some examples: 
VIRTUAL WE LOVE STEM DAY   
(UNITED STATES)
To engage our U.S. employees’ children of all ages safely during 
the global pandemic in our annual We Love STEM Day, employee 
volunteers hosted three concurrent national live virtual events. 
Participants received an age-appropriate STEM activity kit 
to follow along with during the live demonstration. Nearly 
600 children of employees who work at 37 different Emerson 
locations around the United States participated. More than  
60 Emerson employees volunteered their time to plan, organize 
and stage the activities.Funding commitments in fiscal 2021 in 
support of STEM education programs in 
the United States. Over the past 10 years, 
Emerson has donated over $19 million  
to STEM initiatives.$2.6MAs part of our 2021 We Love STEM initiative, 
Emerson donated 1,200 STEM activity kits to 
the nonprofit Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater  
St. Louis and the Girls Inc. chapter of St. Louis.56
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Social ResponsibilityVIRTUAL STEM COMPETITION  
In Canada, Emerson sponsored its second annual virtual STEM 
competition, designed to foster creativity and ingenuity in the 
areas of science, technology, engineering and math for children. 
This year’s applicants were encouraged to imagine and create a 
better post-pandemic world with the goals of advancing clean 
energy, improving food supply and strengthening society. The 
nearly 50 applicants, ranging from ages 6 to 16 years, were 
assisted by more than 20 mentors from five Canadian universities 
and colleges who helped the students think about and refine  
their ideas and presentations. The top 10 finalists presented  
their projects virtually to a distinguished panel of judges.
CHILDREN’S DAY + WE LOVE STEM
Employees from Emerson’s factory in Chengdu, China celebrated 
Children’s Day and held a STEM activity with their young children 
at a local classic car museum this year. The children learned  
about the automobile development process during a tour of  
the exhibition hall and then got to help assemble a toy car. Governance and  
Accountability58
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and AccountabilityCorporate Governance
Emerson is dedicated to high  
standards of corporate governance. 
We take the necessary steps to help ensure our company acts 
responsibly and in accordance with the Emerson Purpose. Our 
commitment to addressing ESG issues is vital to maintaining and 
developing the trust and confidence of our employees, customers, 
suppliers and communities. 
From our Board of Directors and executive leadership team to  
our employees and suppliers, we expect those who represent 
Emerson to uphold an unwavering level of integrity. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
Members of Emerson’s Board of Directors are elected by 
shareholders to provide oversight and strategic guidance to 
senior management. The core responsibility of the Board is to 
exercise its fiduciary duty to act diligently and in the best interests 
of all Emerson’s shareholders. The Board selects and oversees the 
members of senior management, to whom the Board delegates 
the authority and responsibility for day-to-day business operations. 
The Board also provides guidance regarding the management 
of the company and is responsible for establishing company 
policies, overseeing compliance with those policies and  
approving significant company transactions.BOARD OF DIRECTORS POLICIES  
Emerson’s principles and practices are driven by its Board 
of Directors, which ensures these foundational elements are 
shaped by highly independent, diverse viewpoints and deep 
management expertise. Our Board’s operations are guided  
by the following:
INDEPENDENCE
The majority of Board members must remain independent,  
and this independence is confirmed at least annually. 
In our annual Proxy Statement, Emerson publishes how 
shareholders can communicate with any Director, including  
the independent Board Chair. Our Director Independence 
Standards are contained in Annex II to our Corporate 
Governance Principles and Practices.
COMPOSITION
Board members must bring senior management experience  
in business, government or other relevant organizations. We  
seek a diversity of viewpoints and backgrounds on our Board  
that helps us to understand and anticipate changes in our 
business environment. In May 2021, Emerson appointed James Turley  
as independent Board Chair.59
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and AccountabilityCOMMITTEES
To provide specialized oversight in many areas, Emerson’s 
Board of Directors has five committees: Audit, Compensation, 
Corporate Governance and Nominating, Executive and Finance. 
Required Board Committees are independent pursuant to 
requirements of the NYSE and Emerson’s governance documents. 
More information about our Board committees is available in the 
Corporate Governance section of Emerson.com.
RECENT CORPORATE   
GOVERNANCE ACTIONS
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee 
periodically reviews Emerson’s governance principles and 
practices based on feedback from shareholders, industry trends, 
risks and opportunities. When the committee determines a 
change is necessary, it recommends the change to the full  
Board to approve any required policy amendments. 
Emerson has recently taken the following corporate  
governance actions:
INDEPENDENT CHAIR
In May 2021, Emerson appointed James Turley as independent 
Board Chair. Emerson’s Directors include 10 independent 
members and one inside member, Emerson’s President  
and Chief Executive Officer Lal Karsanbhai. BOARD REFRESHMENT
Over the past five years, Emerson has added six new Directors  
to the Board — four of which are diverse. Currently, 45%  
of Directors are women or persons of color, and average  
Director tenure is seven years. 
EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE
In 2021, Emerson appointed its first Chief People Officer to help 
ensure our company evolves with the changing needs of today’s 
talent and remains positioned to succeed in the future.
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
Emerson is committed to enabling a culture where everyone  
feels valued, trusted and empowered. Currently, two of three 
required Board committees are chaired by women, and 60%  
of the Office of the Chief Executive is diverse. Emerson also 
recently introduced a diversity goal at our leadership level  
and formed two new employee resource groups in 2021. 
PERFORMANCE-BASED ESG GOALS
Emerson continues to integrate ESG priorities as part of total 
compensation discussions and programs. We recently outlined 
ESG priorities, in support of our publicly disclosed leadership 
diversity, representation and GHG emission reduction goals, 
which will be presented for the Compensation Committee’s 
consideration in determining top leaders’ annual bonuses  
for fiscal 2022. Appointed 
Independent 
Chair
Successful 
Transition  
to new CEOKey Events and Developing 
Culture in 2021
2022 Board at A Glance1st Chief 
Sustainability 
Officer
1st Chief  
People Officer
2022 Board at A Glance
%
%91
45
7yrIndependence
Diversity
Tenure EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS: 1
 INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS: 10
AVERAGE FEMALE: 27%
 ETHNICITY: 18%
 >8: 3
 4-8: 4
 <3: 42021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and Accountability6060PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY
In 2021, Emerson established the Support Our People Fund  
for employees, and updated its charitable giving to focus  
on addressing education equity in our communities. 
ENHANCED ESG OVERSIGHT
Emerson recently amended the Corporate Governance 
and Nominating Committee charter to emphasize its 
role in overseeing important public policy and corporate 
social responsibility issues, including health, safety and 
environmental sustainability policies and reporting as well  
as providing oversight of the ESG report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE FINANCIAL EXPERTS
In 2021, the Board determined three members of the Audit 
Committee are Audit Committee Financial Experts under  
SEC rules.
GHG REDUCTION TARGETS
In early 2021, Emerson appointed its first Chief Sustainability 
Officer to lead the company and Environmental Sustainability 
Steering Committee and further our sustainability efforts, 
including our progress to reducing our GHG emissions by 20%, 
normalized to sales, by 2028, compared to a 2018 baseline. 
UPDATED BYLAWS
In 2021, Emerson amended its Bylaws to split the CEO and Board 
Chair roles. Emerson also further improved its proxy access bylaw 
to remove a limitation on the number of proxy access nominees 
that was based on our classified Board structure. RISK MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT  
The Board oversees Emerson’s risk management process. 
This process provides the Board timely visibility into the 
identification, reporting, assessment and management of 
critical risks. The Audit Committee has specific responsibility 
for assisting the Board in risk management, including major 
financial risk exposures and the steps taken to monitor, 
mitigate and control such exposures. The Audit Committee 
and the full Board also review Emerson’s environmental 
activities, audits and expenditures annually. 
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee is 
responsible for assisting the Board in overseeing Emerson’s 
conflict of interest policies, codes of ethics, ESG, political 
activities and compliance with laws and regulations. 
The formal annual risk assessment process includes surveys 
and/or interviews of all business and corporate leaders, as 
well as the members of the Office of the Chief Executive. For 
significant risks identified, a mitigation plan is established that 
includes the person responsible for implementation of the plan and the timeline for completion. The Audit Committee and full 
Board receive the risk assessment results annually to better 
understand and monitor Emerson’s risk management process. 
Ongoing risk assessments in various areas are also conducted as 
part of Emerson’s management process, and the results of those 
assessments are shared with the Board or relevant committee 
as needed. This could include potential issues such as ethics or 
human rights violations, environmental risks, etc.
POLITICAL PARTICIPATION  
Emerson’s shareholders, employees and customers are  
affected by public policies at all levels of government.  
To protect shareholder value, Emerson engages with public 
officials to educate them on our company operations, emerging 
technologies and markets. Further information about  
Emerson’s policies and procedures for political participation  
can be found on the Trade Associations and Lobbying page  
of the Emerson website. 61
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and AccountabilityIntegrity & Ethics
At Emerson, we expect all employees and leaders to uphold high  
standards of honest and ethical behavior in the company and in  
working with our customers, suppliers and communities. 
To support our ethics and legal compliance processes,  
we have established clearly defined policies and practices for 
employees through our Ethics and Compliance program.  
Our Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the 
Board of Directors oversees the program and helps ensure we take 
a comprehensive approach through monitoring, investigation and evaluation — merging three core functional areas including 
Human Resources, Audit and Compliance, and Law. 
We communicate our Ethics and Compliance program to 
employees through trainings, documentation and reporting 
channels where employees are encouraged to escalate 
questions or concerns. The program is reviewed annually to 
help ensure consistency with the current business environment 
and industries we operate. We welcome new employees to the 
program during their onboarding and refresh current employees 
and leaders on the program through annual training.
EMPLOYEE CODE OF CONDUCT  
Our Employee Code of Conduct handbook , “The Right Way,” 
serves as the foundation for how Emerson employees conduct 
business around the world. The latest version is available to all 
employees and the public at Emerson.com/ethics and has been 
translated into more than 20 languages. Supplemental ethics 
guidelines are also provided to executive officers and members  
of the Board of Directors — and available to the public —  
to address the special responsibilities of these leaders.CEO AND SENIOR FINANCIAL   
OFFICER CODE OF ETHICS  
Our company’s most senior leaders adhere to the CEO and Senior 
Financial Officers Code of Ethics , which outlines expectations 
including exhibiting and promoting integrity, and providing 
accurate and timely financial reporting. 
At Emerson, integrity is not only a 
foundational corporate value, it is an 
ongoing imperative and a daily mindset  
that drives us forward, the right way.
Our Employee Code of Conduct handbook , 
“The Right Way,” serves as the foundation 
for how Emerson employees conduct 
business around the world.62
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and Accountability
ANNUAL ETHICS TRAININGS  
To help ensure comprehension of our Employee Code of 
Conduct, all employees are required to complete our company’s 
annual ethics training. The training is offered in person and 
online, with several interactive components and an evaluation 
at the end. While we prioritize in-person training when possible, 
online training is also offered to help ensure we reach our 
remote workforce.
ETHICS HOTLINE AND   
REPORTING PROCESS
Our ethics reporting process provides employees clear  
steps on how to report unethical behavior while ensuring  
the protection of their employment status. We are fully 
committed to safeguarding against retaliation or harassment  
of whistleblowers.
Employees are provided with several avenues to escalate ethics 
concerns, including our Ethics Reporting website and Ethics 
hotline number. Both channels are operated by an independent 
third party and allow for employee anonymity.REVIEW AND RESOLUTION   
OF ETHICS CONCERNS  
Reports of ethics issues are handled by a limited number 
of experienced and specialized Emerson management 
personnel. Significant ethics allegations, of which Emerson 
has a set criterion, are required to be reported directly 
to the Chief Ethics Officer and Chief Compliance Officer. 
Emerson’s ethics review and resolution program is 
reviewed annually by internal and external auditors.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST   
EVALUATION AND REPORTING  
Conflicts of interest are taken seriously at Emerson. 
Employees complete an annual questionnaire to identify 
potential conflicts of interest between Emerson and any 
of its directors, officers or employees. This questionnaire 
is provided in more than 20 languages, and over 40,000 
directors, officers and employees responded in 2021.  
All newly reported conflict of interest cases are 
investigated and acted on within 30 days.63
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and AccountabilityCOMPLIANCE RISK OVERSIGHT
Quarterly, members of Emerson’s Compliance Committee 
meet to discuss new or existing compliance risks based on 
emerging trends. 
Emerson regularly engages a third party to review its Ethics 
and Compliance program and the extent to which the program 
aligns with U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) guidelines,  
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (COSO) framework and other leading practices.
The most recent review confirmed the program is aligned  
with these practices.~61,000
employees have received anti-corruption 
training over the past three years.
~1,500
employees in Emerson’s third-party  
anti-corruption due diligence program 
received virtual training over the past year.ANTI-CORRUPTION CONTROLS  
Emerson follows detailed processes to prevent corruption across 
our global operations. Quarterly, all business units are required 
to certify an Internal Control Questionnaire, which includes 
anti-corruption controls. Emerson’s internal audit also conducts 
annual anti-corruption audits at locations identified as part of a 
risk assessment. Approximately 61,000 employees have received 
anti-corruption training over the past three years, and nearly 
1,500 employees in Emerson’s third-party anti-corruption due 
diligence program received virtual training over the past year.
To actively manage risk associated with third parties, Emerson 
also conducts thorough screenings and ongoing risk assessments 
of these groups, giving special attention to locations that operate 
in high-risk countries and industries.Areas of Compliance  
Risk Oversight at Emerson
Antitrust/  
Competition Law
Anti-Corruption
Conflicts of Interest
Environmental
Ethics Allegations
Data PrivacyDiversity, Equity  
and Inclusion
Health and Safety
People Treatment
Product-Related  
Environmental Law
Records Management
Trade Compliance64
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and AccountabilityWorkplace Safety
One of our core Values, Safety and Quality,  
is at the foundation of everything we do. 
Our Corporate Safety Council is composed of our top human 
resources, operations and safety leaders. The Council oversees 
safety efforts, meeting quarterly to help ensure strategy 
alignment and to track progress on priorities, including safety 
education, prevention, trends and compliance. Each location 
has a dedicated safety leader, with each of our locations of  
50 or more employees having a committee operating at the 
local level. Front-line employees are represented to address 
health and safety concerns proactively. We conduct safety 
training for all operational employees and management. 
We annually recognize achievements in safety performance 
at our facilities with Safety Leadership Awards, including our 
Chief Operating Officer Safety Award given to locations with 
outstanding safety performance and culture programs. Our Climate 
Technologies facility 
in Suzhou, China 
received the 2021 
Chief Operating 
Officer Safety Award 
for an exemplary 
safety program 
and demonstrated 
performance. 2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and Accountability65We believe every incident may be preventable, and we aim to reduce and further eliminate the risk of serious injuries  
through focused and intentional action. The following initiatives were implemented or substantially enhanced in 2021:
SEND WORD NOW
Our dedicated natural disaster alert system  
has over 77,000 employees registered globally. 
World Safety Day was held in June 2021. Employees wore green to show their support and participated 
in activities focused on culture, prevention and awareness. Sites hosted target risk reduction projects, 
hands-on training activities, safety-related games and contests and community outreach events. I OWN SAFETY  
This global, five-module series explores the state of safety 
at Emerson and prepares employees to take ownership of 
environment, health and safety (EHS) performance. The 
objectives of the session are to help ensure every employee 
understands Emerson’s vision for EHS performance and 
culture, believes every incident may be preventable and takes 
ownership for EHS performance. This includes understanding 
safe and unsafe elements in their environment, assessing risk  
to identify opportunities for EHS improvement and taking 
action to control risks. 
In 2021, Emerson sites around the globe utilized concepts from  
I Own Safety to reinforce decision making and safe behaviors  
across all parts of our business. 
VELOCITYEHS
This EHS data management tool is deployed across every 
Emerson site and enables our businesses to gather, track and 
analyze relevant information in the evaluation and mitigation  
of operational risks. A new Management of Change (MOC) 
module was added to the VelocityEHS Suite at the end of fiscal 
year 2020. The MOC module helps systematically manage 
change. It allows us to be proactive in controlling health, safety 
and environmental risks and hazards as they pertain to our 
facilities, operations and personnel. 2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and Accountability6666EMERSON GLOBAL HEALTH  
AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Total Recordable Rate of Injuries  
Recordable Injuries First-Aid Cases0.45*/0.580.47 0.46 ‘17
‘18
‘19
0.290.34 ‘20
‘21
385*/496 345304 ‘17
‘18
‘19
252290 ‘20
‘210.290.280.28 ‘17
‘18
‘19
0.170.18 ‘20
‘21
1,5232,4662,307 ‘17
‘18
‘19
9711,011 ‘20
‘21
*Excludes an isolated foodborne illness incident at a single global location. %46
decrease in total recordable 
rate of injuries since 2016Lost or Restricted Workday Cases Rate  Lost or Restricted Workday Cases Rate  67
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and Accountability
Supply Chain
At Emerson, our supply chain  
is integral to our business. 
We work closely with supply chain partners all over the  
world to source high quality and cost-effective components, 
provide supply chain resiliency and reinforce the importance  
of business integrity.
At our Guadalajara White Rogers plant, we invited 
supply chain partner Benchmark to participate in an 
Energy Treasure Hunt. This collective team developed an 
extensive list of energy efficiency ideas with the potential 
to reduce associated carbon emissions by 15%.We operate our global supply chain network to the highest 
level of ethical, human rights and environmental standards. 
We regularly evaluate and update these standards, launch new 
initiatives, invest in better resources and systems and enhance 
our supplier engagement processes to make a positive impact 
for our customers and communities.
AFFIRMING SUPPLIER  
RESPONSIBILITY  
Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets expectations for suppliers 
to comply with principles of ethical behavior, labor practices, 
human rights and environmental protections. Currently, over 
one-third of Emerson’s supply chain spend is under contracts 
requiring acknowledgment of this clause and we are working 
to build this percentage over time. We are also in the process 
of updating our purchase order terms and conditions in all 
jurisdictions to specifically ask our suppliers to adhere to our 
Supplier Code of Conduct.
To evaluate our suppliers’ awareness of and compliance with 
our Supplier Code of Conduct, as well as understand their 
own corporate social responsibility policies, we conduct regular Supply Chain ESG Focus Areas 
• REACH 
• RoHS 
• WEEE
• Minority 
or Women 
Owned 
Suppliers 
(U.S.) 
• Ethical 
Behavior 
• Anti-
Corruption • Conflict 
Minerals 
• GHG 
Emissions
• Diversity, 
Equity and 
Inclusion 
• Forced/
Child Labor 
Workplace 
Safety
• Conflicts  
of Interest 
• Supply 
Chain 
SecurityEnviro nment
Social
Governance2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and Accountability68surveys of more than 740 suppliers. Since launching the Supplier 
Qualification Module in 2018, we have grown coverage to 70% of 
our annual direct supplier spend. This direct engagement process 
provides a mechanism for open dialogue with our suppliers on 
environmental, social and governance information.
We require suppliers who wish to participate in our e-sourcing 
initiatives to acknowledge their understanding and compliance 
with our Supplier Code of Conduct before they can bid. We also 
conduct site visits for many of our new suppliers as part of our 
qualification process. 
REGIONAL SOURCING  
At Emerson, we have long employed a regionalization strategy 
where we manufacture and source within regional markets to 
drive responsiveness with our customers. In 2021, 83% of our 
spend was regionalized – and we expect this percentage to 
grow as we capitalize on more opportunities to localize. These long-standing efforts have led to increased speed, cost savings and cashflow 
generation, and risk mitigation while supporting local customer needs and regulatory 
requirements in the countries we operate. Our strategy provides economic benefits for 
local suppliers and communities within these regions, as well as environmental benefits, 
including reduced transportation and associated emissions.
DRIVING SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY
As part of our commitment to environmental sustainability across our supply chain, 
Emerson continues to engage and support suppliers on their own journeys to minimize 
waste, reduce emissions and make the world more sustainable. In October 2021, we initiated 
Greening Together Summits with critical suppliers to exchange perspectives and best 
practices on environmental sustainability and decarbonization. We will be working with 
these critical suppliers on carbon abatement roadmaps and actions for each major supply 
chain category.
TRAINING OF EMERSON   
SUPPLY CHAIN
At Emerson, we are striving to improve the processes that drive ethical, innovative and 
sustainable supply chain practices. Acting responsibly requires knowledge of a range  
of complex issues involving suppliers across diverse geographies, cultures and business 
practices. In October 2021, we launched a Supplier Code of Conduct training program  
for Emerson employees who engage with our suppliers. There are more than 300 supply 
chain professionals enrolled in the training program. We also launched a Supplier Code  
of Conduct training program for our suppliers with focus on critical ESG topics.
+20,000
Emerson suppliers worldwide 
in fiscal 2021. Emerson’s direct material spend with 
suppliers worldwide in fiscal 2021.$5.45B
Emerson’s Chief 
Sustainability 
Officer, Mike Train, 
presenting at  
the Greening  
Together Summit. 69
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and AccountabilityVanessa McKenzie presenting at the Greening Together Summit. EMERSON EMPLOYEES MAKING AN IMPACT:  
Engaging Suppliers for 
a Sustainable Future 
Vanessa McKenzie is a Corporate Vice President and 
Legal Group Leader in Emerson’s M&A, Supply Chain and 
Vendor Management Organizations. As a member of our 
Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee, she 
helps lead the integration of sustainability objectives into 
all aspects of our business, including supplier operations. 
Recently, she helped launch a series of Greening Together 
Summits with key suppliers to exchange best practices and 
jointly develop our carbon abatement roadmaps. Looking 
forward, Vanessa is confident that Emerson and our supply 
chain partners will drive significant impact in our collective 
environmental sustainability objectives.Cybersecurity
Empowering our operations and customers  
in today’s virtual environments.
70
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Governance and AccountabilityENHANCING OUR   
CYBERSECURITY POSTURE
The rapid digitalization of workplaces and business processes, 
accelerated by the pandemic, requires heightened focus  
on cybersecurity for the world’s most critical industries and 
companies. The complexity and frequency of cyber-related 
events continues to grow and requires a constant effort  
to respond.
To test and reinforce the internal cybersecurity processes of 
Emerson, we utilize an independent third-party to audit our 
primary data centers and key elements of our Enterprise IT 
organization to help ensure alignment with ISO 27001, an 
international standard on information security management. 
Our businesses also utilize additional security frameworks such 
as ISA 62443 and SOC2 depending on the nature of products or 
services they produce. Emerson aligns with the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology Cybersecurity Framework to help ensure that 
Enterprise IT infrastructure and cybersecurity solutions and 
services provided to customers remain robust and effective. We 
routinely utilize third-party services to evaluate cybersecurity 
maturity and test effectiveness of overall cybersecurity controls.
Emerson has established company-wide information security 
policies and procedures. Emerson employees participate in 
annual cybersecurity training. 
Our Chief Information Security Officer conducts quarterly 
briefings on information security to the Audit Committee to 
help assure strong governance of our cybersecurity processes.Reporting72
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting72
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    UN Sustainable  
Development Goals
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) provide a shared blueprint for peace and 
prosperity for people and the planet, now and into 
the future. 
Emerson continues to identify our best solutions to 
contribute to the SDGs as we aim to address various 
environmental, social and economic challenges facing 
our world today. 
Examples of our actions, programs and the SDGs 
to which they relate are demonstrated here and 
throughout this report. GOAL 4 – QUALITY EDUCATION   
Education is an area of particular importance to us, as we know 
it can be the catalyst to great opportunity for under-resourced 
communities and minority populations. As part of Emerson’s 
vision to create a more equitable future for all, in 2022 we pledged 
to allocate $200 million of our charitable giving over the next 
10 years to programs and initiatives by nonprofit organizations 
and educational institutions that address the vital issue of 
education inequity, with a particular focus on the developmental 
and educational experience of children and youth from early 
childhood through high school. Emerson also provides support 
for technical schools and colleges. For example, Emerson has 
pledged $500,000 toward the establishment of a Center for 
Advanced Manufacturing being planned at the Ozarks Technical 
Community College (OTC) to provide training and education in 
robotics, mechatronics and automation, along with other  
modern manufacturing methods.
See also: University & Technical College Programs, Page 50, Transitioning Our U.S. Philanthropy 
Focus to Education Equity Needs, Page 53, STEM Education, Page 55GOAL 5 – GENDER EQUALITY   
In 2021, Emerson continued to honor our commitment to inclusion 
as we progress toward our ambitious diversity, equity and inclusion 
(DE&I) goals: doubling our representation of women globally to 
40% of our leadership, and U.S. minorities to 30% of our leadership 
by the year 2030. 
For years, the Women’s Impact Network at Emerson has provided 
support and networking opportunities for women employees 
around the world. In 2021, the 5,000-member group reached a 
milestone of 100 chapters across the organization. In addition to 
the group’s growth, the Women’s Impact Network has helped 
push Emerson forward as an organization, helping to increase the 
number of women in leadership positions, hosting regular webinars 
and attracting a new generation of women in STEM to the company 
through partnerships with the Society of Women Engineers and 
several universities. 
See also: Elevating the Representation of Women and Underrepresented Populations, Page 39, 
Employee Resource Groups, Page 41, Recent Corporate Governance Actions, Page 59
73
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting73
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    GOAL 6 – CLEAN WATER   
AND SANITATION  
Through our fluid control products and solutions, Emerson 
works to improve water quality and increase access to safe 
drinking water by helping our customers ensure their water 
applications are clean, safe and compliant with regulations. Our 
technologies automate the treatment of 12 billion gallons per 
day of North American water and wastewater with over 30% 
focused on clean water. We help maintain a reliable, sustainable 
clean water supply by automating the treatment process of 
over 4.5 billion gallons per day. Emerson technologies are also 
working to improve the efficiency of clean water treatment, 
reducing chemical use by 10%, resulting in higher-quality clean 
drinking water in North American communities. 
We also completed a wastewater project with the Great 
Lakes water authority (GLWA), one of the largest wastewater 
treatment plants in the U.S., to reduce their costs and improve 
process quality. GOAL 7 – AFFORDABLE   
AND CLEAN ENERGY   
Emerson is committed to delivering environmentally sustainable 
solutions to support our customers’ decarbonization strategies 
and improve energy efficiency. For example, Emerson serves 
as the trusted partner of the U.S. Department of Energy to 
develop more sustainable climate technologies. We are currently 
engaged in nine different projects through the Oak Ridge 
National Lab to increase energy efficiency, spanning heat pump 
solutions to low-cost cooling and heating thermal storage.
We have also partnered with the National Renewable Energy 
Lab (NREL) to advance research and development to increase 
building operational efficiency. NREL is transforming energy 
by developing grid-interactive buildings that strengthen the 
resiliency, efficiency and affordability of energy systems globally. 
See also: Promoting the Decarbonization of the Grid, Page 25, Greening By Emerson, Page 26, 
Collaborating with Leading Research Institutions, Page 35  GOAL 8 – DECENT WORK   
AND ECONOMIC GROWTH  
In 2021, Emerson committed $2.6 million to STEM education 
programs in the United States. Our longstanding “We Love 
STEM” campaign to increase support for STEM education and 
awareness of career opportunities has reached thousands 
of children in 12 countries, and activities led by employee 
volunteers continued in 2021 in a virtual format. 
See also: Training and Development, Page 48, Workforce Development , Page 49,  
STEM Education, Page 55, Workplace Safety , Page 64, Regional Sourcing, Page 68 
74
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting74
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    
GOAL 9 – INDUSTRY INNOVATION   
AND INFRASTRUCTURE  
In 2021, Emerson committed $100 million to Emerson Ventures, 
our corporate venture capital initiative designed to accelerate 
innovation by providing early access to cutting edge technologies 
that solve real customer challenges. This investment commitment 
contributes to the development of disruptive discrete automation 
solutions, environmentally sustainable technologies and industrial 
software in key industries. Our goal is to invest in four to six early-
stage startups each year over five years as part of our ongoing 
commitment to advance solutions, software and technologies 
that drive innovation toward a greener future. 
Emerson is also providing its automation software and 
technologies for an extensive modernization project for the New 
York Power Authority’s (NYPA) 2,525-megawatt (MW) Robert 
Moses Niagara Power Plant. NYPA is the largest state-owned 
public power organization in the U.S., operating 16 generating facilities and more than 1,400 circuit-miles of high-voltage 
transmission lines. Emerson will implement the distributed 
control system to help improve plant reliability and assist with 
all configuration and commissioning services.
See also: Electrification and System Integration, Page 29, Investing in Innovative 
Breakthrough Technology, Page 32, Convening Leaders and Communities, Page 36  GOAL 12 – RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION   
AND PRODUCTION
Emerson is working to help ensure our company and our customers 
responsibly make the most of the planet’s resources. For example, 
our Lumity Site Supervisor provides HVACR, lighting and building 
control that can be used to reduce electricity consumption.
Our Sensi™ suite of smart home solutions is helping customers 
control and achieve heating and cooling efficiency targets in  
homes and businesses. This year, Emerson teamed up with  
Ameren Missouri to give away Sensi smart thermostats to  
Ameren Missouri customers seeking to lower their heating  
costs while doing their part to reduce energy. 
See also: Emerson’s Ambition to Achieve Net Zero Emissions, Page 11, Our Approach to 
Environmental Sustainability and a Net Zero World, Page 10, Reducing Our GHG Emissions,  
Page 14, Energy Source Decarbonization, Page 28, Powering the Future Through Innovation,  
Page 52, Workforce Development , Page 4975
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting75
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    GOAL 13 – CLIMATE ACTION  
Emerson recognizes a net zero ambition for our own company 
is a critical step forward as we build a more sustainable business 
and contribute to a more sustainable world. As a result, we have 
established a target to reach net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2045 compared to a 2021 
baseline. Our net zero design targets the absolute reduction 
of GHG emissions by at least 90% and allows for high-quality 
carbon neutralization in other parts of the ecosystem for any 
residual emissions which cannot otherwise be abated. In the 
near term, we aim to reach net zero across our operations 
for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030, targeting a 25% 
absolute reduction of our Scope 3 GHG emissions in that same 
timeframe. Emerson’s near-term targets have been approved  
by SBTi and we are currently preparing the submission to 
validate our long-term net zero target design. 
Our Copeland Compressor operation in Lebanon, Missouri 
completed an Energy Treasure Hunt in 2021 and is 
implementing several important energy reduction projects. 
This facility also utilizes 100% of its electricity from renewable 
sources and is making significant strides in the journey to 
achieving net zero operations. 
See also: Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability and a Net Zero World, Page 10, 
Reducing Our GHG Emissions, Page 14, Greening By Emerson, Page 26, Greening With 
Emerson , Page 33. GOAL 17 – PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS  
No one organization or policy solution on its own can address the 
challenges we face in advancing these ambitious goals. Emerson 
actively participates in wide range of strategic collaborations 
to develop innovative solutions to address global sustainability 
challenges, including the U.S. Department of Energy, the 
National Renewable Energy Lab, The University of Cambridge, 
the European Clean Hydrogen Alliance, Business Ambition for 
1.5°C partnership, RE100, the Clean Energy Buyer’s Association, 
the Association of Energy Engineers, the EPA’s Energy Star 
Partnership and many others.
Our Chief Sustainability Officer, Mike Train, will continue to drive 
external engagements with policymakers, universities, customers 
and other stakeholders to further our contribution to Goal 17.
See also: Greening With Emerson, Page 33, Elevating the Representation of Women and 
Underrepresented Populations, Page 39, Workforce Development , Page 49. 76
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting76Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
102-1 Name of the organization Emerson Electric Co.
102-2 Activities, brands, products 
and servicesEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Company Profile, p. 6
Emerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 1 - Business
102-3 Location of headquarters Emerson Electric Co., 8000 West Florissant Avenue, P.O. Box 4100, St. Louis, MO 63136 USA
102-4 Location of operations Emerson.com: Contact Us
Emerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 2 - Properties
Emerson.com: Corporate Overview
102-5 Ownership and legal form Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Articles of Incorporation)
102-6 Markets served Emerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 1 - Business
Emerson.com: Automation Solutions
Emerson.com: Commercial & Residential Solutions
102-7 Scale of the organization Emerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 1- Business; Item 2 - Properties; Results of Operations, p.15
Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Company Profile, p. 6GRI Index
environmental, social and economic impacts of our business 
operations. For more information about GRI, please visit 
GlobalReporting.org .The following information references selected Global Reporting 
Initiatives (GRI) Standards, a widely used reporting framework 
on a variety of important topics. The GRI framework provides 
a structure for organizations like Emerson to communicate the 77
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting77Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
102-8 Information on employees 
and other workersPartially reported: 2021 ESG Report: Company Profile, p. 6 ;  
Emerson Workforce Diversity Leadership Representation, p. 39
Emerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 1 - Business
102-9 Supply chain Emerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 1 - Business
2021 ESG Report: Supply Chain, p. 67
102-10 Significant changes to the 
organization and its supply chainEmerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 1 - Business
Emerson 2021 Annual Report: Letter to Shareholders
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Corporate Governance (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 60
Emerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 1A Risk Factors
102-12 External initiatives Emerson Trade Associations 
Emerson 2021 ESG Report, Collaborating for a Net Zero World: Greening With Emerson, p. 33
102-13 Membership of associations Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Trade Associations & Lobbying)
102-14 Statement from senior 
decision-makerEmerson 2021 ESG Report: CEO Message, p. 3
102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Corporate Governance (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 60
Emerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 1A - Risk Factors
Emerson 2021 Annual Report, p. 12 - 13
102-16 Values, principles, standards 
and norms of behaviorEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Our Values, p. 8 ; Integrity & Ethics, p. 61
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Business Ethics)
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethicsEmerson.com: Corporate Governance (Ethics and Compliance)
Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Integrity & Ethics (Ethics Hotline and Reporting Process), p. 6278
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting78Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
102-18 Governance structure Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 7
Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Corporate Governance, p. 58
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices)
102-19 Delegating authority Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance 
(Environmental, Social & Governance), p.7
Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability and a Net Zero World, p. 10
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices – Board Oversight of Management)
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter
102-20 Executive-level responsibility 
for economic, environmental 
and social topicsEmerson 2021 ESG Report: CEO Message, p. 3
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on 
economic, environmental 
and social topicsEmerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Our Board of Directors, p. 2; 
Board and Corporate Governance, p. 9 (Shareholder Engagement)
102-22 Composition of the highest 
governance body and its committeesEmerson.com: Corporate Governance
Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Corporate Governance (Board of Directors Policies), p. 58
Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Our Board of Directors, p. 2; 
Board and Committee Operations, p. 7 - 18 (Board Composition)
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices)
Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Corporate Governance (Board of Directors Policies), p. 58
Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, 
p. 9 (Board Leadership Structure)
102-24 Nominating and selecting the 
highest governance bodyEmerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices)
Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and 
Corporate Governance, p. 13 (Nomination Process)79
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting79Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
102-25 Conflicts of interest Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Integrity & Ethics (Conflict of Interest Evaluation and Reporting), p. 62
Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 10  
(Review, Approval or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons; Director Independence)
Corporate Social Responsibility: Operating Responsibly (Integrity and Ethics)
102-26 Role of highest governance body in 
setting purpose, values and strategyEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Corporate Governance (Recent Corporate Governance Actions), p. 59
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices)
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter
Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance 
(Environmental, Social & Governance), p. 7
102-27 Collective knowledge of 
highest governance bodyEmerson’s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary briefs the Corporate Governance 
and Nominating Committee on corporate responsibility topics on at least an annual basis.
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance 
body’s performanceEmerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate 
Governance, p. 13 (Board and Committee Evaluations)
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 
environmental and social impactsEmerson.com: Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter
Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Corporate Governance (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 60
Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance 
(Environmental, Social & Governance), p. 7
102-30 Effectiveness of risk 
management processesEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Corporate Governance (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 60
Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance, p. 7 
(Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG)
102-31 Review of economic, 
environmental and social topicsEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Corporate Governance (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 60
Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board and Corporate Governance 
(Environmental, Social & Governance), p. 7
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter80
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting80Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
102-32 Highest governance body’s role 
in sustainability reportingThe Environmental, Social and Governance Report is reviewed by the Emerson 
Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee.
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Communications with the Company 
and Obtaining Emerson Documents, p. 66
Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Integrity & Ethics (Ethics Hotline and Reporting Process), p. 62
102-35 Remuneration policies Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Executive Compensation, p. 19 -38
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Executive Compensation, p. 19 -38
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement 
in remunerationEmerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Proxy Item No. Advisory Vote 
on Executive Compensation, p. 59
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Pay Ratio Disclosure, p. 50
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Trade Associations and Lobbying) 
Other organizations listed throughout the report
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Employee Engagement (Labor Relations), p. 46
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Emerson solicits and uses feedback from employees, customers, investors and analysts, 
community leaders, suppliers, regulator and NGOs to understand concerns and impacts 
of our operations on the environment, the economy and local communities.
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Our Board of Directors, 
Board and Corporate Governance, p. 2, p. 7
Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Collaborating for a Net Zero World: Greening With Emerson, p. 33
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statementsEmerson 2021 Form 10-K: Subsidiaries of Emerson Electric Co., September 30, 202181
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting81Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
102-48 Restatements of information Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Driving Net Zero Operations: Greening Of Emerson, p. 14
102-50 Reporting period Emerson 2021 ESG Report: About This Report, p. 100
102-51 Date of most recent report June 15, 2021
102-52 Reporting cycle Emerson 2021 ESG Report: About This Report, p. 100
102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the reportEmerson 2021 ESG Report: About This Report, p. 100
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 
with the GRI StandardsThis material references GRI Standards 2018 as is detailed in this index. 
Emerson ESG 2021 Report: About This Report, p. 100
102-55 GRI content index Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Referenced GRI Standards Index, p. 76
201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributedEmerson 2021 Form 10-K: Results of Operations
201-2 Financial implications and 
other risks and opportunities 
due to climate changeEmerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 1A - Risk Factors, p. 8
Emerson 2021 CDP Response
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 
and other retirement plansEmerson 2021 Form 10-K: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; Retirement Plans
203-1 Infrastructure investments 
and services supportedEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Social Responsibility (Industry Stewardship), p. 51; (Corporate Philanthropy), p. 5382
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting82Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Workforce Development, p. 49; Corporate Philanthropy, p. 53;  
STEM Education, p. 55
204-1 Proportion of spending 
on local suppliersEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Supply Chain (Regional Sourcing), p. 68
205-2 Communication and training 
about anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Integrity & Ethics (Anti-Corruption Controls), p. 63
205-3 Confirmed incidents of 
corruption and actions takenDuring the reporting period, Emerson did not experience any incidents of corruption that rose to  
the level of materiality that would have required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive  
behavior, anti-trust and 
monopoly practicesDuring the reporting period, Emerson was not identified as a participant in any legal actions alleging 
anticompetitive behavior or violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation that rose to the level 
of materiality that would have required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
207-1 Approach to tax Emerson Statement of Tax Principles
207-2 Tax governance, control 
and risk managementEmerson Statement of Tax Principles
207-3 Stakeholder engagement 
and management of 
concerns related to taxEmerson Statement of Tax Principles
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Partially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Driving Net Zero Operations: Greening Of Emerson  
(Utilizing Product Life Cycle Assessments), p. 2483
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting83Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
302-1 Energy consumption within 
the organizationEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Driving Net Zero Operations: Greening Of Emerson, p. 14;  
Environmental Data, p. 95
2021 CDP Climate Change Report
302-3 Energy intensity Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Environmental Data, p. 95
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Partially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability  
and a Net Zero World (Emerson’s Ambition to Achieve Net Zero Emissions), p. 11;  
Driving Net Zero Operations: Greening Of Emerson, p. 14; Environmental Data, p. 95
303-1 Interactions with water 
as a shared resourcePartially reported: 2021 CDP Water Security Report
303-3 Water withdrawal 2021 CDP Water Security Report
303-5 Water consumption Partially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Driving Net Zero Operations: 
Greening Of Emerson (Water Consumption), p. 1984
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting84Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Driving Net Zero Operations: Greening Of Emerson  
(Greenhouse Gas Emissions), p. 15; Environmental Data, p. 95
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2)  
GHG emissionsEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Driving Net Zero Operations: Greening Of Emerson  
(Greenhouse Gas Emissions), p. 15; Environmental Data, p. 95
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3)  
GHG emissionsEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Net Zero Across Our Value Chain by 2045 (Establishing a Scope 3  
Footprint and Improving Data Quality and Analysis), p. 22; Environmental Data, p. 9585
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting85Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Driving Net Zero Operations: Greening Of Emerson, p. 14; 
Environmental Data, p. 95
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Driving Net Zero Operations: Greening Of Emerson, p. 14; 
Environmental Data, p. 95 
307-1 Noncompliance with environmental 
laws and regulationsEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Greening Of Emerson (Assuring Environmental Compliance), p. 19 
In fiscal year 2021, environmental regulators inspected our facilities or were notified of incidents on 
18 different occasions worldwide. Of these occasions in 2021, monetary penalties totaled $9,634. 
308-1 New suppliers that were screened 
using environmental criteriaPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Supply Chain, p. 67
403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management systemPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Workplace Safety (VelocityEHS), p. 65
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment 
and incident investigationPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Workplace Safety, p. 6486
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting86Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
403-3 Occupational health services Partially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Workplace Safety, p. 64
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, 
and communication on 
occupational health and safetyPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Workplace Safety, p. 64
403-5 Worker training on occupational 
health and safetyPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Workplace Safety, p. 64
403-6 Promotion of worker health Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Employee Engagement (Wages and Benefits), p. 46
403-7 Prevention and mitigation 
of occupational health and 
safety impacts directly linked 
by business relationshipsPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Workplace Safety, p. 64
403-8 Workers covered by an 
occupational health and safety 
management systemPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Workplace Safety (VelocityEHS), p. 65
403-9 Work-related injuries Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Workplace Safety (Emerson Global Health and Safety Performance), p. 66
404-1 Average hours of training 
per year per employee688,646.5 total hours of training provided to 86,700 colleagues equals 7.9 average hours  
of training per colleague. 87
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting87Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programsEmerson.com: Careers (Training & Development)
Emerson.com: Investing in People (Transition Assistance)
Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Training and Development, p. 48
404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance and 
career development reviewsEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Training and Development (Performance Reviews), p. 48
405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employeesEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Social Responsibility (Emerson Workforce Diversity), p. 39
Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Board Diversity, p. 3
Emerson 2021 Key ESG Data: Workforce Diversity
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the 
right to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may be at riskEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Employee Engagement (Labor Relations), p. 46
408-1 Operations and suppliers 
at significant risk for 
incidents of child laborPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Employee Engagement (Human Rights), p. 47
409-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory laborPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Employee Engagement (Human Rights), p. 4788
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting88Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
412-1 Operations that have been 
subject to human rights reviews 
or impact assessmentsEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Supply Chain (Training of Emerson Supply Chain), p. 68
412-3 Significant investment agreements 
and contracts that include human 
rights clauses or that underwent 
human rights screeningEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Supply Chain (Affirming Supplier Responsibility), p. 67
412-3 Significant investment agreements 
and contracts that include human 
rights clauses or that underwent 
human rights screeningEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Supply Chain (Affirming Supplier Responsibility), p. 67
413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, 
and development programsPartially reported: Emerson 2021 ESG Report: Supply Chain (Regional Sourcing), p. 68
414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteriaEmerson 2021 ESG Report: Supply Chain (Affirming Supplier Responsibility), p. 6789
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting89Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure Title Location/Response Related UN SDGs
415-1 Political contributions Emerson.com: Trade Associations & Lobbying
416-2 Incidents of noncompliance 
concerning the health and safety 
impacts of products and servicesDuring the reporting period, Emerson identified no new incidents of noncompliance with regulations and/
or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of Emerson products and services that rose 
to the level of materiality that would have required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
417-2 Incidents of noncompliance 
concerning product and service 
information and labelingDuring the reporting period, Emerson identified no new incidents of noncompliance with regulations and/
or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of Emerson products and services that rose 
to the level of materiality that would have required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
417-3 Incidents of noncompliance 
concerning marketing 
communicationsDuring the reporting period, Emerson identified no new incidents of noncompliance with regulations and/
or voluntary codes concerning the marketing communications of Emerson products and services that rose 
to the level of materiality that would have required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.
419-1 Noncompliance with laws 
and regulations in the social 
and economic areaDuring the reporting period, Emerson identified no noncompliance with laws and/
or regulations in the social and economic area that rose to the level of materiality that 
would have required disclosure in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.90
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting90Disclosure Topic Metric SASB Code Units Emerson Metric/Disclosure Location
Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage 
covered under emissions-limiting regulations RT-CH-110a.1 Metric tons (t) CO2e, 
Percentage (%) Emerson 2021 ESG Report, Emissions Intensity and 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions, p.15: 112,326 MT CO2e
Discussion of long-and-short-term strategy or plan 
to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction 
targets and analysis of performance against targetsRT-CH-110a.2 N/AEmerson 2021 ESG Report, Emerson’s Ambition to Achieve 
Net Zero Emissions, p. 11; Greening Of Emerson, p.14
2021 CDP Climate Change Report
Energy Management (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage 
grid electricity, (3) percentage renewableRT-EE-130a.1 
RT-IG-130a.1Gigajoules (GJ) 
Percentage (%)Environmental Data, p. 95
(1) 1,275,440 MWh electricity used
(2) 96% grid electricity
(3) 4% renewable
Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water 
consumed, percentage of each in regions with 
high or extremely high baseline water stressRT-CH-140a.1 Thousand cubic meters (m3), 
Percentage (%) 2021 CDP Water Security Report, Section W1. 2b,  
3,567 megaliters withdrawn
Number of incidents of non-compliance 
associated with water quality permits, 
standards and regulationsRT-CH-140a.2 Number2021 CDP Water Security Report, Section W2.2a, three  
water-related fines, none of which are considered significantSASB Index
one single industry. We have therefore included metrics aligned 
to other industry sectors we believe would be of interest to our 
stakeholders. Emerson will continue to evaluate the disclosure 
of additional topics as these emerge, considering relevance, 
availability of high-quality data and competitive sensitivities. The following disclosure is aligned to the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework for the sector 
denoted as “Resource Transformation – Electrical and Electric 
Equipment (EE).” However, given the diversified nature of 
Emerson’s business, our company does not fit squarely within 91
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting91Disclosure Topic Metric SASB Code Units Emerson Metric/Disclosure Location
Description of water management 
risks and discussion of strategies and 
practices to mitigate those risksRT-CH-140a.3 N/A2021 CDP Water Security Report, Section W3.3
Employee Health 
& Safety(1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality 
rate, and (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR)RT-IG-320a.1 RateEmerson 2021 ESG Report, Emerson Global Health and Safety 
Performance, p. 66: 0.29 total recordable rate of injuries
Business Ethics Description of policies and practices for  
prevention of: (1) corruption and bribery; 
(2) anti-competitive behavior RT-EE-510a.1 N/AEmerson 2021 ESG Report, Anti-Corruption Controls, p. 63  
Emerson Employee Code of Conduct, Giving Gifts or Other Things 
of Value and Bribery, p. 9; Antitrust or Anti-competition, p.14 
Emerson Business Ethics 
Emerson Supplier Code of Conduct 
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with bribery or corruptionRT-EE-510a.2 Reporting currencySEC Filings: Information on legal proceedings is 
disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and 
in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with anti-competitive  
behavior regulationsRT-EE-510a.3 Reporting currencySEC Filings: Information on legal proceedings is 
disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and 
in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
Activity Metrics Number of employees RT-EE-000-B NumberEmerson 2021 Form 10-K: Item 1 – Business, 
Human Capital Resources: approximately 86,700 
employees at September 30, 202192
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting92TCFD Index
It contains our responses to each of TCFD’s recommendations,  
as well as the location of these disclosures.The table below is a disclosure of Emerson’s publicly available 
climate-related information using the framework developed by 
the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).  
Governance
Disclose the company’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.
Summary Response Recommended Disclosure Disclosure Location
The Board of Directors assumes responsibility for the oversight of Emerson’s risk 
management and strategy. This oversight is designed to provide to the Board 
timely visibility into the identification, reporting, assessment and management 
of critical risks, including climate-related risks, and opportunities. The Corporate 
Governance and Nominating Committee assists the Board in the oversight of 
the company’s sustainability initiatives, including the company’s Environmental, 
Social and Governance Report as well as matters related to climate change. 
Our CEO and Chief Sustainability Officer engage directly with the Board to report progress  
toward greenhouse gas (GHG) targets, and coordinated with the Board on the development 
of our net zero ambition. Our Corporate Operations Group and Environmental Affairs 
Group monitor performance against these targets. Each business unit measures and 
tracks its performance on a quarterly basis and reports it to Corporate management. 
The members of the Office of the Chief Executive (OCE), which includes the most senior  
leaders of the company, bring the relevant experience essential to developing and executing  
our climate-related strategies. An Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee,  
comprised of many of these executive leaders, meets bi-annually to evaluate the  
company’s sustainability strategy.a. Describe the board’s oversight of 
climate-related risks and opportunities.2021 CDP Climate Change Report, sections C1. 1a, C1. 1b
Emerson 2022 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement:  
Board and Corporate Governance p.7 
(Environmental, Social & Governance)
Emerson 2021 ESG Report, Risk 
Management and Oversight p. 60
b. Describe management’s role in 
assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities. 2021 CDP Climate Change Report, sections C1.2, C1.2a93
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting93Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the company’s business, strategy and financial planning where such information is material. 
Summary Response Recommended Disclosure Disclosure Location
Emerson is committed to developing and maintaining sustainable, responsible practices 
and offerings in its global operations to create value for customers and shareholders. 
Our business strategy and product development processes take into consideration the 
implications of climate change. Climate-related risks and opportunities are considered in our 
strategies throughout the business and value chain, including within product development, 
supplier engagement, business objectives and operations and financial planning. 
Emerson expects climate-related scenarios to eventually impact our business. We are  
in the process of developing short and long-term sustainability planning that includes  
climate related scenario analysis into the business strategy. Emerson utilizes  
internationally recognized climate related scenarios (IEA, IPCC, etc.) to understand  
and inform strategy regarding our broad portfolio of products, expertise, and solutions 
for our customers and the likely evolution of energy systems going forward.a. Describe the climate-related risks 
and opportunities the company 
has identified over the short, 
medium, and long term2021 CDP Climate Change Report, Risks and Opportunities, 
section C2
b. Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities on 
the company’s business, strategy, 
and financial planning.2021 CDP Climate Change Report, sections 
C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1, C3.2, C3.3, C3.4
c. Describe the resilience of the 
company’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-  
related scenarios, including a 2°C  
or lower scenario.2021 CDP Climate Change Report, Business Strategy, 
section C3
Emerson 2021 ESG Report, Emerson’s Ambition to Achieve  
Net Zero Emissions, p. 11
Risk Management 
Disclose how the company identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks. 
Summary Response Recommended Disclosure Disclosure Location
Emerson identifies climate-related risks as those with the potential for substantive financial 
or strategic impact to our business, operations, revenue or expenditures that would 
impact our ability to successfully deliver products to our customers. Emerson considers 
various climate-related risks as part of an integrated multidisciplinary, company-wide risk 
management process. The Audit Committee supports the Board in risk management. In 
addition, business operations include regular monitoring, mitigation and control. Each year, 
there is a review of the company’s climate-related activities, audits and expenditures.a. Describe the company’s processes 
for identifying and assessing 
climate-related risks. 2021 CDP Climate Change Report, sections C2.1b, C2.2
b. Describe the company’s processes 
for managing climate-related risks. 2021 CDP Climate Change Report, section C2.2
c. Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing, and managing climate-
related risks are integrated into the 
company’s overall risk management.2021 CDP Climate Change Report, sections 
C1.1a, C1.1b, C1.2, C1.2a94
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting94Metrics and Tactics
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. 
Summary Response Recommended Disclosure Disclosure Location
Emerson recognizes a net zero ambition for our own company is an important step forward 
as we build a more sustainable business and contribute to a more sustainable world. To 
ensure our goals are robust and follow the latest climate science to date, we have aligned 
a set of targets with the Science Based Target initiative’s (SBTi) Net-Zero Standard, 
the world’s leading organization in driving the adoption of science-based targets. 
Emerson has established a target to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions 
across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2045 compared to a 2021 baseline. A robust net 
zero design requires the absolute reduction of GHG emissions by at least 
90% and allows for high-quality carbon neutralization in other parts of the 
ecosystem for any residual emissions which cannot otherwise be abated. 
In the near term, we aim to reach net zero across our operations for Scope 
1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030, following the same Net-Zero Standard. 
Emerson’s near-term targets have been approved by SBTi and we are currently 
preparing the submission to validate our long-term net zero target design.
As part of our net zero ambition, Emerson published a full Scope 3 emissions  
footprint for the first time in the 2021 ESG Report, including all relevant categories.
In 2019, Emerson announced a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, 
normalized to sales, by the year 2028. The company’s intensity goal covers all 
of our global manufacturing facilities where we own, operate and have control 
over operations. This represents roughly 80% of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG footprint. 
Emerson has disclosed its Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and marked a 
decrease in emissions intensity compared to the previous reporting year.
Emerson has used protocols from The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and source documents  
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to guide methodologies, emission  
factors and collection of data.a. Disclose the metrics used by the 
company to assess climate-related 
risks and opportunities in line with its 
strategy and risk management process.2021 CDP Climate Change Report, Business Strategy, 
section C3
b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, and the related risks.2021 CDP Climate Change Report, sections 
C2.2a, C6.1, C6.2, C6.3, C7
Emerson 2021 ESG Report, Emerson’s Ambition to Achieve 
Net Zero Emissions, p. 11; Environmental Data, p. 95
c. Describe the targets used by the 
company to manage climate-related  
risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets.2021 CDP Climate Change Report, section C4.1b
Emerson 2021 ESG Report, Emerson’s Ambition to Achieve 
Net Zero Emissions, p. 11; Reducing Our GHG Emissions, p. 1495
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting95Environmental Data
Metric GRI Indicator 2018 2019 2020 2021
Scope 1 + 2 Emissions (metric tons CO2e)
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions intensity (mT CO2e / Sales $M) 305-4 52.6 49.0 47.4 43.7
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions intensity from 2018 baseline 305-5 - -6.7% -9.9% -16.8%
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions total 305-1 and 305-2 914,995 901,013 795,110 797,086
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions from manufacturing facilities 704,328 689,799 630,870 615,163
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions from non-manufacturing facilities 210,667 211,214 164,240 181,923
Scope 1 + 2 regional GHG emissions breakdown NA 485,539 468,274 422,163 411,962
Scope 1 + 2 regional GHG emissions breakdown LATAM 123,112 122,823 102,389 113,298
Scope 1 + 2 regional GHG emissions breakdown EU 102,853 101,096 83,430 84,589
Scope 1 + 2 regional GHG emissions breakdown MEA 27,550 27,524 24,121 21,388
Scope 1 + 2 regional GHG emissions breakdown AP w/o China 77,513 79,917 70,182 55,082
Scope 1 + 2 regional GHG emissions breakdown China only 98,428 101,379 92,824 110,76796
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting96Metric GRI Indicator 2018 2019 2020 2021
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions breakdown by business (COMRES) 438,832 430,285 385,987 401,454
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions breakdown by business (AUTOSOL) 414,346 409,206 359,517 351,812
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions breakdown by business (CORP) 61,817 61,522 49,605 43,820
Scope 1 Emissions (metric tons CO2e)
Scope 1 emissions total 305-1 202,998 196,962 179,149 195,945
Scope 1 GHG emissions by natural gas 137,182 132,252 121,970 122,511
Scope 1 GHG emissions by propane 7,020 8,452 8,803 7,281
Scope 1 GHG emissions by stationary diesel 3,585 1,008 896 862
Scope 1 GHG emissions by residual fuel oil 193 231 355 213
Scope 1 GHG emissions by kerosene 449 547 632 550
Scope 1 GHG emissions from mobile sources 45,101 44,999 37,025 54,264
Scope 1 GHG emissions from refrigerants 9,423 9,423 9,423 10,216
Scope 1 GHG emissions from agricultural byproducts 45 48 44 46
Scope 2 Emissions (metric tons CO2e)
Scope 2 emissions total (market-based) 305-2 711,997 704,052 615,961 601,141
Scope 2 emissions total (location-based) 302-3 709,532 701,556 619,446 604,629
Reduction in Scope 2 GHG emissions by renewable energy /  
total avoided302-2 16,455 17,353 17,148 18,21797
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting97Metric GRI Indicator 2018 2019 2020 2021
Energy (MWh)
Energy consumption (MWh) 302-4 2,282,041 2,258,512 2,039,436 2,116,917
Natural gas use 302-1 756,886 729,686 672,959 675,944
Mobile sources 302-1 78,883 78,431 62,631 113,970
Stationary diesel use 302-1 14,155 3,981 3,537 3,405
Kerosene use 302-1 1,743 2,124 2,456 2,144
Residual fuel oil use 302-1 750 899 1,379 829
Agricultural byproducts 6,469 6,890 6,337 6,590
Propane use 33,200 39,976 41,633 34,437
Purchased steam 302-1 1,330 1,330 1,405 1,355
Purchased hot water 1,527 3,691 3,042 2,803
Electricity use 302-1 1,387,097 1,391,504 1,244,057 1,275,440
On-site renewable electricity generation 4,948 5,003 3,441 4,180
Contracted renewable electricity 27,628 29,363 36,634 43,616
Number of locations with 100% renewable electricity 5 6 8 11
Energy intensity (MWh / Sales $M) 131.1 122.9 121.5 116.1 
Energy intensity reduction compared to 2018 302-3 - -6.2% -7.3% -11.5%98
2021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    Reporting98Metric GRI Indicator 2018 2019 2020 2021
Scope 3 Emissions (metric tons CO2e)
Scope 3 emissions purchased goods & services and capital goods 
(Category 1+2)305-3 1,675,000 2,049,500
Scope 3 emissions upstream fuel & energy related activities 
(Category 3)305-3 170,000 163,000
Scope 3 emissions up & downstream transportation & distribution 
(Category 4+9)305-3 803,000
Scope 3 emissions waste in operations (Category 5) 305-3 52,100
Scope 3 emissions business travel (Category 6) 305-3 19,200
Scope 3 emissions employee commuting (Category 7) 305-3 155,000
Scope 3 emissions use of sold products (Category 11) 305-3 588,000,000
Scope 3 emissions end-of-life treatment (Category 12) 305-3 150,000
Scope 3 emissions total 305-3 591,391,800
Scope 3 categories 10 and 15 are negligible, categories 13 are 14 not applicable. For combined Scope 1 + 2 calculations, note Scope 2 market-based emissions were used to calculate the totals. Scope 3 categories 1-3 
emissions calculations for 2021 use a different methodology than the previous year.
Note that Emerson’s emissions reductions targets related to our 2045 net zero ambition, as well as our near-term 2030 goals, use 2021 data as a baseline. Emerson has engaged WSP to assist in the development of our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory compilation 
and to provide guidance and review on the Scope 3 GHG calculations required to align with both the GHG Protocol (GHGP) and the Science Based Targets initiative’s (SBTi) criteria. WSP is a leading professional services consultancy with a multidisciplinary sustainability,  
energy and climate change (SECC) team that has advised clients across sectors in greenhouse gas management, climate resiliency, sustainable supply chain and numerous related disciplines for two decades.Scope 1 GHG emissions from refrigerants
• Estimated refrigerant emissions using industry standard intensities per square 
foot for leakage in manufacturing and non-manufacturing facilities. R134a was 
assumed to be used in non-manufacturing sites while R404a was assumed to be 
used in manufacturing locations, both due to a sampling of Emerson sites and 
the high GWP value of these refrigerants.Scope 1 GHG emissions from mobile sources
• Includes emissions from fuel consumed by vehicles used in 
manufacturing operations (e.g. forklifts, light duty trucks, etc.)  
as well as Emerson’s leased car fleet.Scope 2 emissions total (market-based)
• Market-based emissions include supplier emission factors, net residual  
factors and renewable energy purchases.
• Location-based emissions include grid electricity emission factor averages 
multiplied by the total purchased electricity.A b o u t  
This   
Report1002021 EMERSON ESG REPORT    |    About This ReportIn 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of OSI, 
a leading operations technology software provider, which 
broadens and complements Automation Solutions’ software 
portfolio and ability to help customers in the global power 
industry, and other end markets, transform and digitize 
operations to more seamlessly incorporate renewable energy 
sources and improve energy efficiency and reliability.
In May 2022, we completed the successful closing of the 
combination of Emerson’s industrial software businesses –  
OSI Inc. and its Geological Simulation Software business – with 
Aspen Technology, Inc. to create a global industrial software 
leader (“new AspenTech”). With the close of the transaction, 
Emerson owns 55% of new AspenTech on a fully diluted basis 
and AspenTech shareholders own the remaining 45%.
Where appropriate, we have indicated whether the data  
we present here includes discontinued businesses.
Certain data, statistics, and metrics included in this report, 
including those related to GHG emissions, are estimates,  About This Report
The Emerson 2021 Environmental, Social and 
Governance Report presents information focused 
primarily on data collected and activities that 
occurred during calendar 2021 or Emerson’s fiscal 
2021 (October 1, 2020 — September 30, 2021), 
except where indicated otherwise.have not been prepared in accordance with generally  
accepted accounting principles and have not been reviewed 
for assurance by an independent third-party. Although 
this information is based on accepted methodologies 
and assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of 
preparation, they should not be considered as guarantees  
and may be subject to further revisions.
In this Report, we may use certain terms including those 
that GRI or others refer to as “material,” “substantive,” or 
“significant” to reflect the issues or priorities of that are 
important to us and our various stakeholders or topics or 
standards designated as such under the GRI or other applicable 
standards. These terms as used in this Report are not used, 
or intended to be construed, as they have been defined by or 
construed in accordance with the securities laws or any other 
laws of the United States or any other jurisdiction, or as these 
terms are used in the context of financial statements and 
financial reporting. This Report is not comprehensive  
and should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report  
on Form 10-K and our other SEC filings.
We expect to update this report annually. However, we 
undertake no obligation to update any statements herein  
to reflect later developments. Any questions or comments 
regarding this report  
can be directed to our  
Chief Sustainability Officer,  
8000 West Florissant Avenue,  
St. Louis, MO 63136,  
+1-314-553-2000About This Report (cont.)   
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
This report contains various forward-looking statements and includes assumptions concerning 
Emerson’s operations, future results and prospects. These forward-looking statements are based 
on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Emerson undertakes no 
obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. In connection with 
the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Emerson 
provides the following cautionary statements identifying important economic, political and 
technological factors, among others, changes in which could cause the actual results or events 
to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements and 
related assumptions. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) the current 
and future business environment, including capital and consumer spending, potential volatility 
of the end markets served, interest rates, and currency exchange rates; (2) competitive factors 
and competitor responses to Emerson initiatives; (3) development and market introduction of 
anticipated new products; (4) the ability to defend and protect our intellectual property rights; 
(5) favorable environments for and execution of acquisitions and divestitures, domestic and 
foreign, including regulatory requirements and market values of candidates; (6) integration 
of acquisitions and separation of disposed businesses; (7) the availability of raw materials and 
purchased components; (8) stability of governments and business conditions in countries where 
we operate which could result in adverse changes in exchange rates, changes in regulation, 
tariffs or trade barriers, nationalization of facilities or disruption of operations; (9) unrestricted 
access to capital markets; (10) our ability to attract, develop and retain key personnel; (11) 
ability to prevent security breaches or disruptions of our information technology systems; (12) 
impact of potential product failures or similar events caused by product defects, cybersecurity 
incidents or other intentional acts; (13) the scope, duration and ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic (as well as oil and gas price declines and volatility) on the global economy and our 
customers; (14) changes in tax rates, laws or regulations and the resolution of tax disputes in U.S. 
and non-U.S. jurisdictions; (15) the impact of improper conduct by our employees, agents or 
business partners; (16) the outcome of pending and future litigation, including environmental 
compliance; (17) availability of renewable energy on a commercially reasonable basis; and (18) 
the Russia-Ukraine conflict, among others that are set forth in Emerson’s most recent Annual 
Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Statements in this report regarding our aspirational purpose, causes, values, and 
related commitments, goals or targets, including those regarding sustainability, greenhouse 
gas emissions, our net zero ambition and related goals, diversity, equity and inclusion or 
other initiatives, contain forward looking statements and are also intended to qualify for the 
protections of the “safe harbor” protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. Such statements are intended to help Emerson adapt and rise to the call of our various 
stakeholders. Because success in these areas depends on the collective efforts of others and 
other factors such as competing economic and regulatory factors, technical advances, policy 
changes, labor markets, availability of candidates, and supplier and customer engagement, 
there may be times where actual outcomes vary from those aimed for or expected. While we 
strive to live our purpose and make a positive impact on society while continuing to advance 
toward our commitments, sometimes challenges may delay or block progress and we cannot 
assure you that the results reflected or implied by any such statements will be realized or achieved.
