Corporate Social Responsibility Report
2017 
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Corporate Social Responsibility Report2
The cover image for this year’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report was used to 
illustrate one of the 20 stories featured in Emerson’s “We See” advertising campaign 
launched in 2017.  This campaign highlights the ways our innovations are helping 
solve the world’s toughest challenges and leave the world in a better place than we 
found it. We see our ability to secure and protect a prosperous future as more than a 
mission, it’s our responsibility. To watch our video and read our stories, visit  
Emerson.com/WeSeeInnovations.We See...Corporate Social Responsibility Report3
CEO Letter 
Company Profile
Environmental Stewardship 
People & Workplace
Community Involvement
Integrity & Ethics
Corporate Governance
Supply Chain
GRI Index 
About This Report04
06
09
17
26
35
38
44
50
56TABLE OF CONTENTS EMERSON HEADQUARTERS
St. Louis, Missouri USACorporate Social Responsibility Report4
Dear Stakeholders,
As a technology and engineering company with manufacturing facilities around the world, we at 
Emerson view our corporate social responsibility broadly and seriously. Our mission as a company is 
to help our industrial, commercial and residential customers address some of the most important and 
complex challenges facing the world. Our goal is to leave the world in a better place than we found it.
We need a strong business foundation to make this possible. We have made tremendous progress in 
strengthening our company over the past two years through a strategic portfolio repositioning and 
focusing on two business platforms – Automation Solutions and Commercial & Residential Solutions. 
We are seeing the positive impact of these changes today with renewed sales growth and a surge of 
momentum for innovation across the company. 
Many of Emerson’s technology and service offerings that are driving our growth also support and 
advance energy efficiency and environmental sustainability. Our automation technologies help process and discrete manufacturing facilities and infrastructure run more efficiently, productively and safely. Our 
heating, cooling and refrigeration technologies enable customers to enhance food quality and safety, 
ensure indoor human comfort and health, advance energy efficiency and create a more sustainable 
infrastructure. Examples of these Emerson technology solutions and their significant impact for our 
customers, their industries and the broader society are included in this report.  
A company is only as strong as the values that guide it. That is why Emerson this past year focused on 
strengthening our culture through a renewed emphasis on the shared values that are critical to our 
company’s success. We engaged our employees around the world to identify the values that unite us 
in common purpose to deliver on our customer promise of Consider It Solved. These values – Integrity, 
Safety and Quality, Continuous Improvement, Collaboration, Innovation, Customer Focus and Support 
Our People – are the building blocks to a successful culture and help shape our strategic framework for 
investment. 
We are striving to create a more diverse and inclusive workplace. In 2017, I joined the “CEO Action 
for Diversity & Inclusion” initiative to demonstrate my personal commitment to making Emerson an 
employer of choice. We appointed a vice president for diversity and inclusion to develop, guide and 
help drive initiatives. And we continue to hold trainings for our leadership teams around the world to highlight the benefits of diversity and inclusion and to boost awareness of unconscious biases that may 
affect decision making in recruiting, hiring, retention, promotions and compensation.  
Safety is a core Emerson value and reinforcing behaviors that contribute to employee safety is a 
management priority. In 2017, the company’s total recordable injury rate globally was again reduced, 
but workplace accidents happen and we must be ever vigilant in this area. In addition, we are now 
implementing new software applications globally to further improve our reporting and oversight for 
employee safety and environmental measurements.    Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Chairman’s MessageCorporate Social Responsibility Report5
The company continues to focus on the environmental impact of our operations. We made progress in 
2017 in furthering energy conservation and efficiency improvements at our continuing facilities around 
the world, saving the equivalent of 14.5 million kilowatt hours of electricity. 
Our company’s charitable contributions are helping to support nonprofit organizations and educational 
institutions on a wide range of community needs. Our philanthropic and employee volunteer efforts are 
putting a special focus on attracting and training young people, especially more women and minorities, 
to consider careers in manufacturing, engineering and other STEM-related fields.  
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I want to thank our employees around the world for living our core 
values and helping make Emerson a good corporate citizen and an ethical and more sustainability-
focused company. We recognize that environmental, social and governance expectations for companies 
continue to increase, and we are committed to driving measurable advancements. Through this report 
and our other communications, we will continue to share our progress on this journey.
 
Sincerely,
David N. Farr
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Corporate Social Responsibility Report6
Company Profile
Emerson is a global manufacturing company that brings technology and 
engineering together to provide innovative solutions to customers in the industrial, 
commercial and consumer markets. Through our two business platforms – 
Automation Solutions and Commercial & Residential Solutions – we develop 
technologies that advance productivity, efficiency and safety for our customers.
Founded in 1890 and headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri (USA), Emerson is incorporated under 
Missouri law and is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EMR).  
As of September 30, 2017, the company had more than 80,000 employees and approximately 200 
manufacturing locations worldwide. In fiscal 2017, the company had global sales of $15.3 billion.  
The company initiated a major strategic repositioning of its portfolio starting in 2015 that resulted in the 
sale of the network power systems business, which closed in the first quarter of 2017, and the sale of its 
power generation, motors and drives businesses, which closed in the second quarter of 2017.  With these 
divestitures, the company reorganized itself from five diversified business segments into its current 
two, more highly focused business segments. On April 28, 2017, Emerson completed the acquisition 
of Pentair’s valves and controls business, and that business is now part of the Automation Solutions 
segment. The company’s portfolio now consists of two business platforms: 
AUTOMATION SOLUTIONS
Our Automation Solutions business enables process, hybrid and discrete manufacturers to maximize 
production and protect personnel and the environment, while reducing their energy and operating 
costs through a broad offering of integrated solutions and products, including measurement and 
analytical instrumentation, industrial valves and equipment, and process control systems. Emerson helps 
customers reach what we call Top Quartile performance through our technologies and engineering 
services to design and automate new production facilities and to measure, control, analyze, optimize and power ongoing operations.  Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply ChainCorporate Social Responsibility Report7
Our leading product brands include Appleton, ASCO, Bettis, Branson, DeltaV, Fisher, Micro Motion, 
Ovation and Rosemount.  Significant end markets served include oil and gas, refining, chemicals and 
power generation, as well as pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, automotive, pulp and paper, metals 
and mining, and municipal water supplies.
COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL SOLUTIONS
Our Commercial & Residential Solutions business provides products and solutions that promote energy 
efficiency, enhance household and commercial comfort, and protect food quality and sustainability 
through heating, air conditioning and refrigeration technology, as well as a broad range of professional tools and commercial and solutions. 
The Climate Technologies segment of this business provides products, services and solutions for all areas 
of the climate control industry, including residential heating and cooling, commercial air conditioning, commercial and industrial refrigeration, and cold chain management. Products include compressors, 
temperature sensors and controls, thermostats, flow controls and stationary and mobile remote 
monitoring technologies and services that enable homeowners and businesses to better manage their 
heating, air conditioning and refrigeration systems for improved control and comfort, and lower energy 
costs. The Tools & Home Products segment includes professional pipe-working tools, residential and commercial food waste disposers, and wet-dry vacuums. Our leading product brands include Copeland, 
InSinkErator, ProAct, RIDGID and Sensi.
EMERSON GLOBAL PRESENCE 2017
Note:  Locations include manufacturing locations only. Latin America 
Sales $767 million 
Employees 13,500 
Locations 25 Asia 
Sales $3.3 billion 
Employees 25,000 
Locations 45 Middle East / Africa 
Sales $956 million 
Employees 2,000 
Locations 5 United States and Canada 
Sales $7.9 billion 
Employees 24,000 
Locations 75 Europe and Russia 
Sales $2.4 billion  
Employees 17,000 Locations 50 Global  Sales  $15.3 billion  Employees  81,500 Locations  200 Corporate Social Responsibility Report8
The company’s strategic repositioning actions during 2016 resulted in the sale of the network power 
systems business which closed in first quarter 2017, and the sale of the power generation, motors and 
drives business closed in second quarter 2017. Data related to these businesses are not included in this 
report.  On April 28, 2017, Emerson completed the acquisition of Pentair’s valves and controls business 
and data related to that business is now reported in the Automation Solutions segment. 
This report focuses primarily on information and data on the company’s business and operations 
during 2017.  Additional information regarding our company and businesses, including products, 
brands and markets served, can be found at Emerson.com and in our latest Annual Report to 
Shareholders and Form 10-K filing with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission.
Note:  The company reported in its 10-K filing for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 that it had an 
average of approximately 76,500 employees.  As of September 30, 2017, the company had 81,500 employees.
MEMBERSHIPS
Our company, senior management and employees are associated with a wide range of business-related 
initiatives and organizations around the world. Here are just a few examples:EMERSON GLOBAL SALES 2017 - $15.3 BILLION
2017 Sales by Platform 2017 Sales by Geography
Air Conditioning Contractors of America
Air-Conditioning, Heating & Refrigeration InstituteAmerican Biogas Council (ABC)American Home Appliance Manufacturers (AHAM)American Society of Plumbing Engineers (ASPE)American Supply Association (ASA)American Water Works Association (AWWA)
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion
European Heat Pump AssociationEuropean Partnership for Energy & the Environment
International Association of Plumbing & Mechanical 
Officials (IAPMO)
International Water Association (IWA)
National Association of Clean Water Agencies (NACWA)National Association of Home Builders (NAHB)National Association of ManufacturersNational Electrical Manufacturers AssociationNational Kitchen and Bath Association (NKBA)Plumbing-Heating-Cooling Contractors of North 
America (PHCC)
Plumbing Manufacturers International (PMI)
Responsible Minerals Initiative
Society of Women Engineers
The Conference BoardThe Consortium for Graduate Study in Management
United States Green Building Council (USGBC)
Water Environment Federation (WEF)Water Research FoundationAutomation Solutions Commercial & 
Residential Solutions 
52% 
21% 16% 5% 6% 
Asia  Europe  United States 
and Canada Latin  
America  Middle East / 
Africa 
62% 38% Corporate Social Responsibility Report9
These goals aren’t mutually exclusive. Across our business units, Emerson’s 
core mission is to deliver solutions that enable our customers to operate at 
peak efficiency and performance. We help customers maximize reliability, 
reduce energy costs, automate processes and reduce waste. We focus on the 
same priorities within our own manufacturing operations.
Our Technologies for Customers                                
Eme
rson is focused on helping our customers with the most complex and 
important challenges facing the world in the process, industrial, commercial 
and residential markets. Our Automation Solutions business is helping 
customers make the greatest use of the world’s valuable resources, helping 
nations move their economies forward in responsible ways, enabling the performance and safety of industries, and advancing the industries that are 
the backbones of daily life. Our Commercial & Residential Solutions business 
is helping customers ensure human comfort and health, protecting food 
quality and sustainability, advancing energy efficiency and environmental 
conservation, creating sustainable infrastructure, and continuing research 
and development momentum.  
AUTOMATION SOLUTIONS
Emerson Automation Solutions has developed a comprehensive portfolio of 
products, services and solutions that help industrial customers to maximize reliability, reduce energy costs, automate processes, reduce waste and 
improve worker safety. Following are some examples:  Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Environmental
Stewardship
As a public company, Emerson develops and markets innovative 
technologies and services that meet the needs of our customers, provide 
jobs for our employees and create value for our shareholders. As an industry 
leader and a corporate citizen in our communities, we also seek to improve 
quality of life, reduce the impact of our operations and products on the 
environment, and leave the planet in a better place for future generations.
Emerson is focused on 
helping our customers with the most complex and important challenges facing the world in the process, industrial, commercial and residential markets.Corporate Social Responsibility Report10
Better monitoring for oil and gas pipeline leaks  
 >  Each and every day, millions of miles of pipeline around the world transport 
hydrocarbons – such as crude oil or natural gas – from the source to 
refineries, and then ultimately to consumers. Emerson technology is 
helping companies prevent issues they couldn’t previously see in advance, 
and addressing problems that do arise faster than ever before.  
Emerson’s cutting-edge technology can determine corrosion and the rate of 
thinning of a piping wall, giving engineers real-time insights on preventive 
maintenance actions to take. If pipeline integrity is at risk, Emerson control 
systems are able to quickly reduce the flow rate to lower pipeline pressure, 
helping to decrease the chances of an incident. This combination of real-
time information and decision support software and services enhances 
operational efficiency and safety across the oil and gas pipeline.
 
Imp
roving industrial safety
 >  Facility fire and gas leak detection.  Our portfolio of safety and security 
solutions is helping industrial plants reduce risk, avoid incidents and operate 
reliably. From integrated safety systems to fire and gas leak detection, 
we help customers prepare for the unpredictable and keep workers 
safe.  Emerson sensor networks deliver predictive data insights that allow 
manufacturers to build strategic reliability plans to help ensure that plants 
are running at full capacity with minimal risk.
 >  Digital twin platform for power plants.  A new Emerson technology offering 
introduced in 2017 now provides a virtual platform – known as a “digital twin” – 
that allows an industrial facility to test any proposed engineering adjustments 
to operations risk-free and in real time, before they are applied to the actual 
plant. Using the industry’s first integrated control and simulation platform, 
Emerson is able to create an exact digital replica of the live plant. This high-
fidelity simulator runs in parallel with the real control system, making advanced 
testing possible to ensure any changes won’t impact the supply of electricity 
and ensure environmental impacts are mitigated.  
The need for real-time virtual testing is greater than ever. Global electricity 
demand will see a 69 percent increase by 2040, according to a 2016 U.S. 
Energy Information Administration report. This increase in demand, which 
puts further pressure on reliable generation, will accompany a growing 
shift to renewable energy sources, which are processed differently than 
traditional sources. With our digital twin technology, electricity-generation 
customers can maximize efficiency and safety for current operations while 
testing future upgrades.
Making microgrids more reliable
 >  Microgrid control systems.  Reliable, affordable power is taken for granted 
in most of the developed world, but 1.2 billion people around the globe 
live in areas that don’t have a centralized power source. Small-scale grids, 
or microgrids, are quickly emerging as a solution to bringing electricity to  Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply ChainCorporate Social Responsibility Report11
underdeveloped areas of the world. Microgrids typically use renewable 
resources like solar and wind to generate much of their electricity in a clean 
and affordable manner, but battery power and standby generators are used 
to pick up the slack for wind turbines on a calm day or solar panels when it’s 
cloudy. Emerson’s Ovation™ control system technology enables seamless 
and automated coordination of disparate power sources to satisfy power 
demand and maintain stable operations.
Bringing life-changing drugs to market more efficiently
 >  Pharma manufacturing automation.  Emerson’s automation technologies 
are helping bring life-changing pharmaceuticals to market faster and safer 
than ever before. Thanks to advanced manufacturing and our scalable 
DeltaV systems, researchers in the lab are developing drugs with the same 
equipment and automation technology that will be used to commercially 
manufacture the drugs, providing crucial insights into how to make the 
medications efficiently. By implementing our automation and controls 
technology in the lab and on the manufacturing floor, we help enable highly 
precise and flexible manufacturing capacity at a lower capital cost, which 
also leads to easier submissions for approval by regulatory agencies.
COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL SOLUTIONS
Emerson Commercial & Residential Solutions is helping conserve and make 
better use of energy resources across the globe, addressing environmental 
impact while improving quality of life. From compressors to thermostats, 
from indoor comfort in your home and workplace to cold chain technologies 
that safeguard the foods that nourish our lives, Emerson is providing 
environmentally responsible solutions around the world.
Cleaner skies, more efficient heating in China
 >  China heat pump installations.  Air quality has been a significant health 
concern in China in recent years, with residential coal-fired heating systems 
acting as a major contributor to pollution. With the help of Emerson 
technology, China is now replacing in-home coal burning with more 
efficient and environmentally responsible heat pumps.  
More than 300,000 high efficiency air-source heat pumps, powered by our 
Copeland Scroll™ compressors designed for colder climates like northern 
China, were installed in 2017. These electric -powered heat pumps are 
replacing reliance on inefficient residential coal-burning in rural areas, and 
are 20 percent more energy efficient than a traditional hot-water system 
using a coal-fired boiler. The impact stretches beyond individual home 
efficiency: Emerson research has found that using a heat pump will reduce 
51 percent of CO2 emissions, compared to using a coal boiler.
Making building energy management easier
 >  Managing multiple thermostats. Managing temperature across multiple 
rooms – or buildings – can be incredibly challenging. Organizations like 
churches and schools often don’t have the resources for large-scale building  Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Corporate Social Responsibility Report12
management systems or around-the-clock facility staff, opening the door 
for significant energy waste from heating or cooling unoccupied buildings.  
With the recent introduction of our new Sensi™ Multiple Thermostat 
Manager, Emerson is helping school districts, churches and small to large 
businesses conserve energy. Our software application allows users to 
remotely manage and control heating and cooling systems at multiple 
locations through one online portal that easily allows energy-saving 
temperature adjustments.
Reducing food spoilage for Indonesia’s fishermen
 >  Cold chain technology for artisanal fishermen. In Indonesia, 95 percent of the 
2.2 million people engaged in the fishing industry are small-scale or artisanal 
fishermen. Emerson’s commercial refrigeration technologies are helping the 
country’s Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries bring cold chain facilities 
to small fishermen in remote areas of the country where existing facilities for 
storing the catch are often not sufficient or can only be used short-term.  
Emerson technologies for refrigeration equipment are now being used to 
efficiently power refrigeration equipment – including ice flake machines, 
air blast freezers and cold storage units – that can reliably maintain 
food-safe temperatures. More than 300 Emerson condensing units have 
been installed across Indonesia. By reducing food spoilage, this new cold 
chain infrastructure is helping improve the living standards of small-scale 
fishermen who can now store their catch at proper temperatures and earn a 
selling price that is 30 percent higher than in 2015.
Navigating the shift to Clean Cold in Europe
 >  Preparing for the EU’s F-gas transition. To control emissions from fluorinated 
greenhouse gases (F-gases), including hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), the 
European Union is phasing out the use of F-gases. The retail sector is key 
to the transition away from HFCs, as an average supermarket refrigeration 
system can leak up to 25 percent of its refrigerant charge annually, resulting in 
approximately 1,556 metric tons of CO2 equivalent emissions – producing the 
same environmental impact as the annual energy used by 165 homes.  
These regulations are requiring major investments by Europe’s food 
retail industry in new refrigeration systems that are designed for more 
environmentally friendly refrigerants. Emerson Commercial & Residential 
Solutions is working closely with food retailers – providing our component 
technologies and technical and engineering advice – on how to make the technology switch cost-effectively and while lowering maintenance 
costs, simplifying installation and reducing energy consumption. For more 
information on this topic, see the University of Birmingham research report 
commissioned by Emerson, Retail Refrigeration: Making the Transition to 
Clean Cold, published in October 2017. Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Corporate Social Responsibility Report13
Managing Our Facilities
ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES FOR EMERSON’S OPERATIONS  
Each of our manufacturing facilities around the world follows a set of principles that 
guides our commitment to environmental stewardship in everything that we do.   
Highlights of these principles include:
 >  We comply with all applicable laws and regulations, but also seek to 
reduce and, where possible, eliminate hazardous waste through source 
reduction and recycling. 
 >  We continually work to minimize environmental impact through safe 
technologies, facility design and operating procedures. 
 >  We conserve energy and work to improve the efficiency of the products 
we manufacture and of our own operations.
 >  We conduct regular training to ensure knowledge of updated laws and 
regulations, pollution-prevention and waste-minimization practices, and 
technological developments.
 >  We periodically audit our operations to confirm compliance with these 
principles and local laws.
Emerson’s business unit presidents are responsible for implementing these 
principles, with support from our Corporate Environmental Affairs Department. 
Our General Counsel is responsible for overseeing implementation of the Company’s environmental principles and periodically reports performance to 
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Environmental Management System
ENERGY CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY  
Emerson continues to implement energy efficiency measures at our facilities, 
conduct energy audits and seeks out new opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment.  In 2017, these conservation and efficiency activities actions across our operations contributed to a reduction of 14.5 million kilowatt hours used.  That’s equivalent to the average annual electricity consumption of 1,347 American households.*
 >  As part of a renovation at our Chanhassen, Minn., plant, we converted from a 
steam boiler to natural gas, saving about 2.4 million kilowatt hours annually. 
 >  At one of our plants in Attit, India, we began recovering waste flue 
gases and using them to provide heat for water used in the body 
component washer. In addition, we converted an existing diesel-fired oven at the plant to liquid petroleum gas. These changes resulted in an 
annual reduction of nearly 400,000 kilowatt hours of energy used.
 >  We also installed LED lighting in 2017 at many of our facilities, from Mansfield, 
Ohio, to Möenchengladbach, Germany, to Shanghai, China. Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Each of our manufacturing 
facilities around the world follows a set of principles that guides our commitment to environmental stewardship in everything that we do.
*Based on data from U.S. Energy Information AdministrationCorporate Social Responsibility Report14
MINIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT THROUGH FACILITY 
DESIGN AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
Emerson designs and builds many of our new facilities following Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design, or LEED, certified standards, incorporating 
sustainable design principles, technologies and best practices, including Indian 
Green Building Standards. It is another way we use innovative approaches to reduce 
the impact of our operations on environmental resources. Emerson facilities that 
meet LEED standards for using less water and energy and reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions are listed on this page.  
In spring 2017, Emerson announced plans to build a new headquarters for our InSinkErator business in Wisconsin. The new headquarters and lab building, which 
has been designed to qualify for LEED certification, is expected to open in July 2018. 
In Chakan, India, we are currently building a manufacturing center that is being 
designed to the Indian Green Building Council’s Platinum rating. The first phase is 
expected to open in March 2019.
REGULAR ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING
Emerson conducts regular environmental training programs for our plant 
environmental managers, business unit environmental coordinators and other 
key personnel worldwide. Each session takes into account the specific needs of 
the regions in which our facilities are located.
Each year, employees receive online or face-to-face environmental training 
with two primary goals:
 > G
ive employees a practical understanding of the requirements of 
environmental laws and regulations as they apply to the company.  
 > Sh
are best practices on how to reduce waste, enhance the quality of the 
environment and conserve energy.
The training conferences cover a broad range of topics, including:
 > Eme
rson’s environmental principles.  
 > G
ood environmental management practices.
 > C
ountry-specific environmental laws and regulations.  
 > N
ew developments in local environmental laws.
 > P
ollution prevention, waste minimization and energy conservation. 
 > S
pecialty topics like hazardous materials transportation, spills and incident 
response, and recycling technologies.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
Emerson considers the environmental aspects of how we design, engineer 
and manufacture products, ensuring that materials and processes are safe and adhere to industry standards and government regulations such as 
WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) and RoHS (Restriction of 
Hazardous Substances) directives. 
We also assess the environmental compliance of Emerson facilities annually 
in most cases, with 84 percent of manufacturing facilities assessed with a  Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
LEED Certified 
The Helix Innovation Center - 2016 
DAYTON, OHIO (USA)
LEED Silver
Emerson Scroll Machining Building - 2013  
AVA, MISSOURI (USA) 
ASCO Fluid Automation Global 
Headquarters - 2017  
FLORHAM PARK, NEW JERSEY (USA)
Emerson Campus - 2013 
SOROCABA (BRAZIL)
Emerson Latin American 
Headquarters - 2009 
SUNRISE, FLORIDA (USA)
  
LEED Gold
Corporate Data Center - 2010 
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI (USA)
Emerson India Headquarters - 2013 
GURGAON (INDIA)Emerson facilities with  
green building certifications Corporate Social Responsibility Report15
third-party audit or self-assessment in 2017. In this process, we analyze the 
procedures and performance of our facilities against standards set by local 
law or Emerson’s standards, whichever sets a higher standard. Furthermore, 
when acquiring companies, we assess their environmental policies and 
procedures to correct any issues.
Emerson requires that every manufacturing facility receives a third-party 
environmental compliance audit every five years, in which auditors conduct 
detailed inspections of the facility and its environmental records. The 
purpose of these audits is to evaluate environmental regulatory compliance, 
as well as the overall environmental management practices of each plant. The 
audit process also encourages plant environmental managers to look beyond 
basic compliance to explore ways to implement innovative and productive 
environmental management practices.
Prior to an on-site inspection by an outside environmental consultant, each 
plant is required to complete a detailed questionnaire provided by the 
Corporate Environmental Affairs Department. Once the formal audit is 
completed and the outside auditor submits a written report, Environmental 
Affairs works with the business unit president and facility personnel to ensure 
that all audit findings are addressed.
About 10 percent of Emerson’s audits are surprise audits, where facility managers 
receive, in most cases, only 48 hours’ notice of the third-party audit team’s visit. 
In years in which plants do not have a third-party compliance audit, business 
unit environmental coordinators work with plant management to complete 
a self-assessment to ensure compliance with environmental regulations. 
Corporate environmental staff oversee this annual process.
FINES AND SANCTIONS
Emerson facilities are routinely inspected by environmental authorities in the 
jurisdictions where we operate.  It is Emerson policy to cooperate fully with 
environmental authorities.  The majority of all inspections by authorities do 
not result in monetary fines, penalties or citations.  When environmental fines 
or penalties have been imposed, the costs have been minimal in comparison 
to the size of our operations.  
For example, in fiscal year 2017, environmental regulators inspected our facilities or were notified of incidents on 24 different occasions worldwide 
(compared to 37 occasions in 2016).  Of these occasions in 2017, only three 
resulted in monetary penalties totaling $9,666 (compared to three in 2016). 
The average annual cost of environmental fines and penalties incurred 
globally by Emerson from 2012 through 2017 was approximately $14,833.
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
In addition to Emerson’s global Ethics and Compliance Hotline, each of our 
business units has its own formal and informal channels to raise concerns or 
complaints about environmental compliance. We also periodically receive concerns regarding environmental issues from the people and businesses 
neighboring our facilities. Issues raised via these channels are rare and are 
appropriately addressed. Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Emerson facilities are 
routinely inspected by environmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we operate.
$41,977
2013   $6,046
2014   $13,486
2015   $2,990
2016   $9,666
2017   ANNUAL COST OF ENVIRONMENTAL 
FINES AND PENALTIESCorporate Social Responsibility Report16
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
All GHG emissions are measured in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO2e). Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use
Emerson tracks our impact on the environment in a number of ways, including measuring emissions into the atmosphere, water 
consumption and energy use associated with our manufacturing operations. Emerson has voluntarily disclosed this data as a participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2006.  
Compared to 2016, Emerson experienced a 31.3 percent decrease in global C0
2e emissions, a 5.6 percent reduction in global water 
consumption and a 20.5 percent decrease in global energy use. We attribute these results to several factors, including a decrease 
in the number of reporting facilities*, new and/or more efficient technologies being implemented in our production facilities, and energy- and water-savings measures being implemented across our operations.
Scope 1 - Direct GHG Emissions
Includes the combustion of fossil fuels (e.g., natural gas, fuel oil, propane, etc.) for comfort heating or other industrial applications at Emerson manufacturing facilities .
Water Consumption
Emerson’s worldwide water usage (in gallons):Energy Use
Emerson’s total worldwide electricity usage (in megawatt-hours):Scope 2 - Indirect GHG Emissions
Includes the consumption of purchased electricity, steam or other sources of energy (e.g., chilled water) generated upstream from Emerson manufacturing facilities.
208,952   
2014   761,996   
2014   170,617
2015   583,644
2015   175,499
2016   604,155
2016   120,619
2017   506,659
2017   
Measured in MT CO2e emissions Measured in MT CO2e emissions
* All data is for the calendar year indicated and is based on the Emerson business portfolio during that year. In 2017, Emerson was reorganized into two primary business platforms – Automation Solutions and 
Commercial & Residential Solutions. The company’s 2017 environmental data includes 207 facilities vs. 240 facilities in 2016 and does not include the Pentair facilities that were acquired during 2017. During 2014, 2015 and most of 2016, the company was comprised of five business platforms: Process Management, Industrial Automation, Network Power, Climate Technologies and Commercial & Residential Solutions. 
**Water and energy use data from 2016 have been adjusted to provide increased accuracy and meaningful comparisons.1,189,500,885 1,200.05 
1,061,401,521 ** 
1,002,015,897 1,218.7 **
969.4 1,402,947,620 1,431.38 2014   2014   
2015   2015   
2016   
2017   2016   
2017   Corporate Social Responsibility Report17
People  
& Workplace
At Emerson, our success is fueled by the knowledge, skills, integrity and 
engagement of our 80,000+ employees across the globe. As a company, we seek 
to create a culture and environment that supports our people and empowers 
them to reach their greatest potential. Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
In 2017, following our business portfolio transformation from five business 
segments to two segments, we launched our internal “One Emerson” 
initiative to unify employees around a common set of shared values and to 
provide a clear road map for all employees on how we should act and behave. 
To identify these core values, we conducted a survey in which 13,999 
employees enthusiastically responded, followed by interviews with 109 
leaders within the company. In conversations across the company, employees 
shared their perspectives on thought-provoking questions, including: “What 
are we best at?” and “What do we need to do more of to be successful?” With 
this information, Emerson engaged human resources and leadership firm 
Korn Ferry to define the behaviors that give Emerson our unique pulse and fuel our drive to leave the world in a better place than we found it. 
This research helped us identify seven shared, core values across our company 
that are fundamental to the way we conduct our business and achieve 
success: Integrity, Safety and Quality, Support Our People, Customer Focus, 
Continuous Improvement, Collaboration and Innovation – are fundamental 
to the way we conduct our business and achieve success.   
Engaging our global workforce around common values has energized 
employees to continue reaching for top performance, supported by an employee management process that has always centered on open and honest communication. This philosophy guides our robust efforts to create a global 
workforce that encourages diversity and embraces inclusion while promoting workplace safety and fair labor practices. We continually look to break new 
ground in these areas to help Emerson maintain its status as an employer of 
choice that drives innovation and delivers excellence for our customers.Corporate Social Responsibility Report18 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
ONE EMERSON – OUR VALUES
We are uncompromising in our honest 
and ethical behavior, which creates trusting relationships with one another, customers, suppliers and communities.INTEGRITY
We are unwavering in our commitment to 
the highest standards of safety and quality for ourselves and our customers.SAFETY & QUALITY
We constantly strive for improvement in all aspects of our business, guided by metrics, feedback and our disciplined management process.CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
We work seamlessly across geographies, platforms, business units and functions to fully leverage our unmatched breadth and expertise.COLLABORATION
We passionately pursue new technologies, 
capabilities and approaches to drive tangible value for our customers.INNOVATIONWe attract, develop and retain exceptional people  in an inclusive work environment, where all 
employees can reach their greatest potential.SUPPORT OUR PEOPLE
We actively listen to our customers to deeply understand their needs and deliver the unique solutions that ensure their success.CUSTOMER FOCUS
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
We are committed to equal opportunity in all phases of employment. Our 
company prohibits discrimination against or harassment of any employee or 
applicant on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, age, disability, national origin, veteran status, political affiliation, 
union membership, or any other factor deemed unlawful. 
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
    
Eme
rson is committed to creating a global workplace that encourages 
diversity and embraces inclusion.  By bringing together bright, enthusiastic 
and talented people from a variety of backgrounds and cultures, our culture 
promotes the birth of new ideas and an exciting energy level. We recognize 
our company and the industries we serve need to continue making progress 
in these areas and are committed to helping lead the way.
Emerson’s diversity and inclusion efforts seek to attract, develop and retain 
more women and minority employees as part of our overall workforce and at all 
levels of our management ranks. We are actively working to create an employer 
of choice environment within our industry in terms of promotions, transfers, compensation, benefits, career mentoring, company-sponsored training, 
tuition assistance and social and recreational programs for our employees. Emerson’s U.S. workforce 
Demographics (2017)
30.5%  
WOMEN
26.9%  
MINORITIES *
3.5%  
PROTECTED  
VETERANS  
3.3%   
PEOPLE WITH  
DISABILITIES
*Includes Asian, American Indian or Alaska Native, 
Black or African-American, Hispanic,  
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific IslanderCorporate Social Responsibility Report19 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Emerson’s Diversity Council, established in 2013, is comprised of senior leaders 
from Emerson corporate and our business platforms. The Council helps set 
direction and provides oversight and guidance on the company’s diversity 
and inclusion initiatives. In 2016, the Council received management approval and funding to put in motion several key strategic initiatives to support the 
company’s diversity and inclusion commitment, including:
 >  Initiated research and sharing of best practices on diversity and inclusion 
across our businesses.
 >  Developed a curriculum for diversity training on unconscious bias and 
began roll-out of the training to leadership teams in 2016, with over 200 
participants in the first year.
 >  Recognized Emerson Women in STEM as the first company-wide Employee 
Resources Group (ERG). We also began research and internal discussions on 
how the company should support ERGs in general.
 >  Continued our commitment to outreach and recruitment of minority MBA 
degree recipients through involvement with the Consortium for Graduate 
Study in Management, including as lead sponsor of its 2016 annual 
conference which was in St. Louis.
In fiscal 2017, Emerson continued to expand its diversity and inclusion efforts 
with the following actions:
 >  To drive progress and accountability, Emerson established a vice president-
level position to oversee Talent Management & Diversity, which included 
oversight of company-wide diversity activities. Starting in fiscal 2018, 
this position was refocused under a newly named vice president for 
diversity and inclusion, whose responsibilities include strategic planning 
and implementation oversight for diversity, fostering inclusiveness and advocating for underrepresented groups in the workplace.
 >  Emerson Chairman and CEO David Farr pledged the company’s support for 
the “CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion” initiative to advance these goals 
in the workplace.
 >  We continued holding unconscious bias training, both in-person and via an 
e-learning module for all leadership teams worldwide. To date, more than 
3,000 managers in our company worldwide have completed this training.
 >  Starting in 2017, diversity and inclusion-related questions are now 
included in our annual global employee opinion survey. Responses will 
help the company learn and evolve its efforts to become a stronger, more 
diverse organization.
 >  We have begun collecting more data related to workforce diversity efforts, 
including data on applicants, hiring and promotions to help measure 
progress and better target our efforts.20.7%21.2%22.9%
18.4%19.0%
2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS
13.9%14.5%16.4%
12.3%12.4%
2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   MINORITIES* IN  
MANAGEMENT POSITIONS
27.9%30.5%
27.8% 27.8%27.4%
2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   WOMEN IN ALL POSITIONS
23.3%23.5%26.9%
21.1%21.6%
2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   MINORITIES* IN ALL POSITIONS
* Workforce representation data is based on 
consolidated federal EEO-1 and VETS-4212 filings. All data 
is a snapshot of the Emerson business portfolio on the 
payroll period date utilized to file the EEO-1 report.EMERSON U.S. WORKFORCE 
TRENDS (2013-2017):Corporate Social Responsibility Report20 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
 >  We have supported the global expansion of Emerson Women in STEM and 
continue to internally evaluate the interest in recognizing other potential 
employee resource groups on a company-wide basis.
Women at Emerson
Emerson is making a concerted effort across the company and around the world to attract, recruit, retain and advance more women at our company. 
RECRUITING EFFORTS
Our efforts to recruit engineering degree graduates and MBA degree 
recipients have a special focus on reaching women candidates. For example, 
our Engineers in Leadership Program, which provides a unique opportunity 
for 8 to 18 engineering degree graduates to be hired and immediately gain 
exposure to a range of functional roles and assignments beyond engineering, 
is helping the company compete for highly sought-after women engineers in 
today’s job market.
EMERSON WOMEN IN STEM
Emerson Women in STEM, our first corporate-wide Employee Resource Group, 
is a critical conduit and partner in advancing the company’s values and business 
goals, including our commitment to create a more diverse and inclusive work 
environment. This volunteer-driven organization is providing a vital support 
mechanism for women in salaried roles in the company. Their activities include 
organizing and hosting networking opportunities, professional development 
sessions and recognition events for female employees; coordinating 
participation in Society of Women Engineers activities; and promoting 
awareness of women in STEM career opportunities at schools and youth groups, and to participate in company recruiting activities.  
Membership in the Emerson Women in STEM network has grown rapidly the 
past two years as international chapters have been formed. In 2016, Emerson Women in STEM had 590-plus women members, largely in the United States 
and held 24 regional events. At the end of fiscal 2017, the organization swelled to more than 1,700 employee members globally and had held 292 
events worldwide. The organization now has regional leaders and members in each of Emerson’s major world areas.
SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS
Emerson is proud to be a corporate partner of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE), the leading organization dedicated to the advancement 
of women engineers. Through SWE, we conduct outreach and recruitment of female engineering talent for our company in the United States. In 2017, 
Emerson and its businesses sponsored the attendance of 51 employees at 
SWE’s annual conference. Emerson’s U.S. workforce ages 
(2017):
14%  
UNDER AGE 30
43%  
AGE 30-50
43%  
OVER AGE 50  5901700
2016   2017   Emerson’s Women in STEM 
Membership Growth GloballyCorporate Social Responsibility Report21 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
RECOGNITION  
Woman Engineer. In 2017, Emerson was ranked by Woman Engineer magazine 
among the “Top 50 Employers” in the United States for which women 
engineers would most like to work or whom they believe would provide a 
positive working environment. This is the third year in a row that Emerson has 
made the Top 50 list.
Human Rights Campaign.  In November 2017, the Human Rights Campaign’s 
2018 Corporate Equality Index awarded Emerson its top score of 100 – and 
Best Places to Work designation – in recognition of the company’s policies 
and practices that been put in place that are important to our employees and 
the LGBTQ community at large.
MINORITIES 
We actively seek to increase the diversity of our global workforce by participating in recruiting events at universities and business schools, and at 
job fairs during professional societies’ annual conferences, to find and engage 
qualified candidates for both entry- and executive-level positions.  Emerson 
is a longtime corporate supporter of the Consortium for Graduate Study in 
Management, the largest diversity network in the United States that seeks 
to reduce underrepresentation of African Americans, Native Americans and 
Hispanic Americans in education and business by linking corporate partners with top-tier students. Emerson was one of the first companies to become a 
Consortium corporate partner, and participation has become a cornerstone 
of our MBA recruiting program.   
U.S. MILITARY VETERANS 
Emerson and our business units actively seek to recruit U.S. military veterans 
to explore job opportunities at our company as they transition to their 
post-military careers. For example, in 2017 Emerson participated in veterans-
focused MBA recruiting events at the University of Michigan’s Ross School 
of Business (Ann Arbor, MI), Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of 
Management (Evanston, IL), Harvard Business School (Boston, MA) and 
Washington University’s Olin Business School (St. Louis, MO).  
Promoting Health & Safety
We strive to create and sustain a safe and healthy work environment for all 
of our employees, focusing our efforts in three critical areas:
 >  Implementing global safety and health standards based on some of the 
strongest regulations from around the world.
 >  Tracking global injury trends from first aid, medical treatment, restricted 
and lost time injuries.
 >  Conducting safety and health audits of our operations around the globe.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report22 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
The safety and health of all employees is a core value within our company. We 
expect all levels of management and employees to not only anticipate hazards, 
but also to address them and stop employees if they deem a work environment 
or task to be unsafe.  
Our safety efforts are led by our Corporate Safety Council, which meets 
quarterly. The Council sets expectations, provides oversight and tracks 
progress of our global safety program in order to drive continuous 
improvements, reinforce our safety culture and reduce injuries in Emerson’s 
operations. All of our locations with 50 or more employees have a health and 
safety committee operating at the local level, which includes representation 
from members of the work force, to work proactively in addressing health and 
safety concerns.  We conduct safety training for all operational management 
and require each significant location to have a formal safety program.
To reduce or eliminate the risk of serious injuries associated with 
decisions made by employees or managers, Emerson focuses on frequent 
communications highlighting positive behaviors. Our Automation Solutions 
business has exemplified this focus through a “safety moment” reminder 
that’s presented at the start of internal and external meetings and regular 
communications on “12 Lifesaving Behaviors,” which began in 2016.  This effective initiative was also adopted by our Commercial & Residential Solutions 
business platform in 2017 and is now an Emerson-wide program.
Emerson’s emphasis on safety and health encourages continuous 
improvement in all our processes, including the following:
 >  Protective devices – We continually engineer and apply devices that mitigate 
risk from workplace processes and equipment.
 >  Ergonomics  – Where processes involve repetitive tasks, we design work 
approaches to minimize the impact on our employees.
 >  Preventive maintenance – With sound maintenance routines and protocols, 
Emerson continually reviews equipment to keep it in top operating shape, which reduces the potential for hazards while maximizing productivity.
 >  Security – To assure a well-protected, safe workplace, we consistently manage 
access to our facilities following international guidelines and standards.
Starting in 2018, Emerson is implementing an enterprise-wide employee health, 
safety and environment management software solution that will enable our 
environment, health and safety staff to take our safety and health programs to 
the next level. This software solution will provide visibility to not just historical 
accident data, but will also give insights into proactive leading indicators of the strength and effectiveness of our safety and health programs, such as near-
misses, hazard identification, audit reports and other forward-looking data. This 
software system will enable local teams, business units and our company to track and analyze more information quicker, manage corrective actions and continue 
to build a workplace safety culture focused on prevention.12 Lifesaving Behaviors
Think Safety First
Report Incidents
Assess Risk
Take Action
Know Limitations
Personal Protection  Equipment
 Follow Rules
Clean Up
Observe Warnings
Use Proper Tools
Drive Safely
Escalate If NeededCorporate Social Responsibility Report23 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
With our commitment to employee safety and health, Emerson ensures that 
safety goes hand-in-hand with operating productively, which in turn helps 
Emerson to compete effectively.  Beyond this, many of Emerson’s products 
and services, including automation, monitoring and consulting services, are 
designed to help our customers increase safety within their own operations.  
MEASURING SUCCESS 
We consistently measure health and safety performance to assure continuous 
improvement and high standards in every facility. The most important 
measure is the workplace injury rate among our global workforce, where 
Emerson has seen reductions in incidents between 2012 and 2017.
Our commitment to continual evaluation and improvement of our health and 
safety standards will help us keep driving these numbers on a downward trend.
We conduct selective audits annually to measure compliance with Emerson’s 
and local safety standards, whichever is higher.  Based on audit results, we 
work with facility management to rate safety compliance, and provide step-
by-step plans to address any issues that are discovered.  In the vast majority of 
cases, audit issues are addressed within 90 days. 
Labor Practices
As part of our commitment to employees, we seek to uphold the highest 
standards in our labor practices, including conditions of employment and 
human rights. We do not employ child or slave labor and we respect our 
employees’ right to freedom of association in choosing labor organizations 
to represent them. Many of our employees are represented by unions 
or works councils and we strive to maintain positive relationships with 
those representatives. In the United States, 5 percent of our workforce are 
unionized and 29 percent of our worldwide employees are represented by an 
employee representative organization such as a union or works council. 
WAGES AND BENEFITS 
Our compensation practices comply with applicable wage laws and 
international standards, including those relating to minimum wages, 
overtime compensation and legally mandated benefits. In compliance with 
local laws, employees receive compensation for overtime at pay rates higher 
than regular hourly rates. The basis on which workers are paid is documented 
in a timely manner via pay stub or similar written communication. It is 
Emerson’s policy to recruit, hire, train and promote people in all job 
classifications without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status, age, marital 
status, or genetic information. It is our policy and our practice that this equal 
employment opportunity be present in all aspects of employment, including 
but not limited to compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, 
company sponsored training, tuition assistance and education. 0.62
0.54
0.460.82
0.76
2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   TOTAL RECORDABLE RATE OF INJURIES
0.330.34
0.280.460.45
2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   LOST WORKDAY CASES OR 
RESTRICTED WORKDAY CASES
202
137
119222
209
2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   RECORDABLE INJURIES*
2,935
2,463
2,3072,7582,712
2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   FIRST-AID CASES 
Emerson health and safety information does not 
include discontinued operations.
* Recordable injuries data does not include 
restricted cases, lost workday cases or fatalities.GLOBAL HEALTH AND  
SAFETY PERFORMANCE  Corporate Social Responsibility Report24 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
PAID FAMILY LEAVE
As a company that has grown by acquisition, Emerson has a wide variety of 
business units in the United States, in different industries and employment 
markets, and with different benefit structures. Paid leave is handled in a 
variety of ways at Emerson’s U.S. business units, with some units offering 
designated paid maternal and/or paternal parental leave in addition to 
vacation and other types of time off; some providing paid time off for any 
purpose; and some providing unpaid family leave in addition to traditional 
paid vacation. Emerson is currently studying the leave policies of its various 
business units in order to identify possibilities for harmonization of U.S. time-
off programs.
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
Emerson operates with reasonable working hours to maintain a positive and 
productive work environment consistent with commonly accepted practices 
in each locale. Employees elect whether to accept employment after being 
fully apprised of the terms, conditions, practices and expectations of their 
jobs. Workers are not required to surrender government-issued identification, 
passports, or work permits as a condition of employment.
Human Rights
In our business operations around the world, Emerson lives its commitment 
to respect and promote human rights that are essential to a healthy and 
vital commercial environment and to a broader society. This entails specific 
attention to particularly challenging issues and activities including: 
 >  Commitment to humane treatment – We do not allow or condone any form 
of harsh or inhumane treatment, including sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal abuse, nor do 
we allow managers to threaten treatment of this nature.
 >  Prohibition on forced labor – Our policies prohibit and we do not use any 
forced, bonded, indentured or other compulsory labor. We also prohibit our 
suppliers from using any forced, bonded, indentured or other compulsory 
labor. Our policies are in compliance with important regulations like the UK 
Modern Slavery Act 2015. Emerson fully supports these and other efforts to 
eradicate human trafficking across the globe.
 >  Prohibition of child labor – Our policies oppose child labor and we do not use 
child labor in any facility or business. Emerson has established age 18 as a 
standard minimum age for employment, which complies with or exceeds 
local legal requirements. We support the use of legitimate workplace 
apprenticeship programs that conform with laws and regulations. We also 
prohibit our suppliers from employing anyone under the local legal working 
age, or age 14, whichever is greater.Emerson lives its commitment 
to respect and promote human rights that are essential to a healthy and vital commercial environment and to a broader society.Corporate Social Responsibility Report25 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS & REPORTING
In addition to formal and informal complaint or grievance procedures at our 
business units, concerned parties have easy access to Emerson’s global ethics 
and compliance hotline to report complaints or concerns.
The Board of Directors Audit Committee chair directly receives all accounting, 
audit and internal control related hotline communications independent of 
management. In addition, the company’s Ethics Committee reviews the 
investigation results of all significant allegations and approves any related 
remediation action. The Chief Compliance Officer and Vice President, Internal 
Audit provides regular reports to the Audit Committee regarding these 
matters, which would include any potential human rights issues.  [See page 
35 of the Integrity & Ethics section of this report for additional information 
concerning our Ethics Hotline.]Corporate Social Responsibility Report26
Community  
Involvement 
Through our corporate giving and employee volunteerism, we focus our 
efforts in four primary areas:
 >  Education - Developing and training future generations through schools, 
universities and related programs
 >  Health and Human Services - Supporting the health and well-being of 
residents of all ages
 >  Culture and the Arts - Enhancing the quality of life through support for 
cultural activities and arts programs
 >  Civic Needs - Promoting prosperity of our cities and regions through 
infrastructure initiatives and community development
Corporate Giving in the United States
Emerson and the Emerson Charitable Trust provide financial assistance and 
other support to local organizations in the United States with the goal of 
improving quality of life, promoting volunteerism and increasing the impact of 
contributed funds. Emerson annually targets directing approximately 1 percent 
of its consolidated pretax earnings (excluding nonrecurring items) to charitable contributions.  The decline in Emerson charitable contributions over the past 
three years reflects the portfolio transformation that resulted in various business 
unit divestitures. 
While Emerson accepts applications from all qualified organizations, we prioritize requests made by institutions and groups in the communities where the 
company has facilities.Emerson is committed to being an active resident of the communities where we 
operate, not just for the benefit of our employees and their families but for all who 
call the community home. We strive to do this by identifying and supporting local 
organizations and initiatives that are addressing specific needs to make these 
communities more attractive places to live and work.   Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
*2014 includes one-time $10 million gift 
to CityArchRiver Foundation in support of 
the redesign of Gateway Arch grounds in 
St. Louis, MO.$35.7
$32.0
$26.8$33.1$43.1
2013   2014*  2015   2016   2017   EMERSON CHARITABLE 
CONTRIBUTIONS IN THE U.S.  
(IN MILLIONS USD)Corporate Social Responsibility Report27
During 2017, Emerson and the Emerson Charitable Trust made contributions 
totaling $26.8 million to hundreds of charities, nonprofit organizations and 
educational institutions across the United States, including the company’s 
matching of employee contributions. Approximately $24.6 million of the 
donations were by the Emerson Charitable Trust and approximately $2.2 million 
were direct donations by the company. 
Funding was approved to support a wide range of requests from educational 
institutions and nonprofit organizations, including: operating costs to 
maintain core programs, to expand programs, or to launch new initiatives 
to address community needs, and for capital costs to fund select projects 
for building construction, improvements or expansions. Allocations by focus 
areas are shown below. Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
$26.8 MILLION  
Total Emerson and Emerson Charitable Trust cash contributions 
made in fiscal 2017 to charities, nonprofit organizations and educational institutions across the United States, which includes $517,435 in company matching gifts to employees’ donations.
$8.3 million
Education
$8.8 million Health & Human Services  
$6.2 million Culture & Arts 
$3.5 million Civic
Examples of organizations and initiatives that received Emerson 
funding include:
CULTURE AND THE ARTS
 >  Missouri History Museum (St. Louis, MO) -Emerson is a lead corporate 
funder of the endowment created to fund the Missouri History Museum’s 
plans to establish a permanent exhibit on local African-American history. 
Emerson’s contributions also helped support the museum’s acclaimed 
2017-2018 special exhibition, #1 in Civil Rights: The African American 
Freedom Struggle in St. Louis, which examines the role of St. Louis and 
its residents in the nation’s civil rights movement and issues related to 
racial injustice and inequities. As of February 2018, approximately 218,500 
visitors to the museum have experienced this new exhibit.
MISSOURI HISTORY MUSEUM
St. Louis, MOCorporate Social Responsibility Report28 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES
 >  Houston Food Bank (Houston, TX) - Emerson and its Houston area 
employees provided funding to support the mission of the Houston Food 
Bank and to sustain and expand its positive impact on people’s lives in 
the community. In 2016-2017, the Houston Food Bank delivered 83 million 
nutritious meals to those in need. Each year its member agencies feed 
800,000 people.
EDUCATION
 >  University of Dayton (Dayton, OH) - In conjunction with operating The 
Helix Innovation Center on the University of Dayton (UD) campus to 
provide a collaborative environment for researchers, academia and 
heating and cooling industry professionals, Emerson is also funding five 
annual scholarships for UD students. At least two of the scholarships 
must be awarded to underserved populations in the engineering fields, 
including women and minorities.
CIVIC
 >  City of Shakopee, Minnesota (Shakopee, MN) - Emerson is the lead 
corporate donor helping fund the estimated $2.3 million cost for the City 
of Shakopee to build a new community center at Quarry Lake Park to 
serve the growing community.
UNITED WAY SUPPORT
Each year Emerson and many of its employees actively participate in United 
Way fundraising and volunteer activities in the U.S. communities where 
our employees live and work. In 2017, the Emerson Charitable Trust made contributions to 29 United Way organizations across the country, including 
those serving the following areas:  
Aiken County (SC)
Atlanta (GA)Austin (TX)Cincinnati (OH)Cumberland (MD)Erie County (PA)Grayson County (TX)Greater Philadelphia & 
Southern New Jersey (PA)
Guernsey and Noble 
Counties (OH)Houston (TX)
Kansas City (MO)Knoxville (TN)Lafayette (CO)Lakeshore (MI)Lorain County (OH)Marion County (FL)Marshalltown (IA)Northern New Jersey (NJ)Racine County (WI)Richland County (OH)Rochester (NY)Rush County (IN)Shelby County (OH)Southeastern Michigan (MI)Southern Kentucky (KY)St. Louis (MO)Twin Cities (MN)Western Connecticut (CT)Williamson County (TX)THE HELIX INNOVATION CENTER AT 
UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON
Dayton, Ohio
Corporate Social Responsibility Report29 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
$16 MILLION  
Donations and pledges since 2014 in 
support of initiatives focused in north St. Louis County.  SUPPORT FOR FERGUSON AND NORTH COUNTY REVITALIZATION
Emerson has taken a leading corporate role in supporting initiatives to 
enhance social services, education and employment opportunities for economically disadvantaged residents of Ferguson and north St. Louis 
County. St. Louis is where our company was founded in 1890 and the 
suburban community of Ferguson in north St. Louis County is where our 
global headquarters is located today.
Since 2014, Emerson has made donations and pledges, including a portion of its 
United Way contributions, totaling approximately $16 million (as of December 
2017) in support of initiatives focused in north St. Louis County. 
In 2017, approximately 40 organizations received Emerson contributions to 
help address neighborhood, north St. Louis County and regional needs.
 Examples of our donations include:
 >  Boys and Girls Club of Greater St. Louis - Emerson is donating $1 million 
over five years (2017-2021) in support of the new teen facility in Ferguson 
focused on workforce development and academic achievement.
 >  Ranken Technical College - Emerson is a longtime supporter of Ranken’s 
mission and is providing $1.75 million over five years (2015-2019) to fund 
scholarships for students from north St. Louis County to receive career and technical education.
 >  University of Missouri St. Louis - Emerson is providing $1.5 million over 
five years (2015-2019) in support of the Opportunity Scholars Program, 
which provides underrepresented and first generation college students with an all-inclusive, four-year scholarship to the university, and career 
development opportunities.
 >  Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High School - Emerson has provided 
$400,000 over four years (2014-2017) to fund scholarships for students 
from north St. Louis County to attend this highly regarded private co-ed 
preparatory high school. Over the past five years, the school has achieved 
a 99 percent graduation rate and a 95 percent post-secondary acceptance 
rate for its students.
STEM Education
As technology is changing the process of manufacturing, today’s companies 
are increasingly in need of workers with more technical knowledge and skills. A study by Deloitte and the National Association of Manufacturers’ 
Manufacturing Institute predicts manufacturers in the United States will 
need to fill about 3.5 million jobs by 2025. But 2 million of those jobs may go 
unfilled because it is so difficult to find people who have the skills in demand.
RANKEN TECHNICAL COLLEGE
St. Louis CountyCorporate Social Responsibility Report30
CHALLENGER LEARNING CENTER
St. Louis, MO Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
$9 MILLION  
Funding commitments through 
fiscal 2022 by Emerson and Emerson Charitable Trust in support of STEM education programs/activities in the United States.To help address the need for upskilling of workers and to raise awareness 
of these career opportunities among women and minorities, traditionally 
underrepresented in the manufacturing industries, Emerson is supporting 
a range of initiatives related to STEM (science, technology, engineering and 
math) education and career awareness. 
In 2017, Emerson supported STEM-related programs and activities at 
organizations and schools such as: Girl Scouts of Eastern Missouri, University of 
Tennessee Foundation, Harris-Stowe State University, Denver School of Science 
and Technology, the SME Education Foundation’s PRIME® program in five 
high schools where Emerson facilities are located and the Science Museum of 
Minnesota. Additionally, Emerson employees have volunteered with STEM-
related organizations, such as the Society of Women Engineers, Girl Scouts of 
Eastern Missouri and The Works Museum in Bloomington, MN.
We are a corporate funder of the Challenger Learning Center St. Louis, an 
organization based in Ferguson, MO, with a unique mission to inspire student 
interest in scientific exploration through simulated space missions, scientific 
education and team-building programs.  
Emerson continued our commitment to Washington University’s STEM Teacher 
Quality Initiative (STEM TQ) in 2017. STEM TQ is a collaborative program with 
the goal to improve STEM education for students in kindergarten through 
eighth grade. The initiative is a yearlong educational program for teachers to 
increase their knowledge and ultimately enhance STEM curriculum for students in the St. Louis metropolitan area. 
In 2018, Emerson is making a $1.5 million commitment over five years (2018-
2022) to the engineering program at Texas A&M University to establish the 
Emerson Advanced Automation Laboratory. The new laboratory will give 
diverse classes of engineering students access to some of the most advanced 
automation technologies in use at industrial facilities around the world. Funds 
will also expand wireless technologies in the Zachry Engineering Education 
Complex, and support improvements for hands-on teaching including a 
collaboration room for students and faculty.
Employee Volunteerism
Emerson employees around the world give generously of their time, talent 
and financial resources in support of a multitude of educational institutions, 
charitable organizations and civic endeavors in their local communities. In 
addition, many employees, including our management leaders around the 
world, serve in volunteer leadership capacities with industry associations 
and local nonprofit organizations, lending their expertise and contacts to aid in strategic direction and for fundraising.Corporate Social Responsibility Report31 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
WE LOVE STEM CAMPAIGN
Our award-winning “We Love STEM” campaign to raise awareness and support 
for STEM education and career opportunities continued to grow in 2017, with 
Emerson employees around the world taking part.
 >  We partnered with YouTube star Hank Green to produce a video for social 
media to raise awareness of how Emerson’s employee-hosted “We Love 
STEM Days” at our facilities and at schools are helping inspire young children 
to pursue STEM-related careers.
 >  In Hong Kong, Emerson employees hosted STEM workshops for 
approximately 240 students at an all-girls’ school, covering the topics of 
electricity, conductivity and simple software programming.
 >  In Costa Rica, Emerson employee volunteers helped remodel a local school’s 
classroom to create a computer laboratory. Once completed, Emerson 
sponsored a six-month class for girls at the school to learn about robotics and 
work in the laboratory. Employee volunteers also hosted a “We Love STEM” 
kids day, which gave local youth the opportunity to learn about STEM; and 
participated in the nonprofit program MenTE, which introduced teenage girls 
to coding and app development. 
 >  In the Philippines, Emerson collaborated with the Department of Science 
and Technology (DOST) and Girl Scouts of the Philippines on a multi-city 
“#WeLoveSTEM” caravan campaign in 2017. See Philippines CSR Programs 
section for further details.
 > In C
luj, Romania, Emerson employees gave back and promoted STEM in their 
community through a variety of initiatives, including: providing a primary 
school with necessary books and teaching materials; participating in a 
university’s Entrepreneurs Day by talking with engineering students about 
Emerson processes and initiatives; and hosting job fairs and career days for 
students to learn about Emerson and employment opportunities. Emerson also sponsored STEM-related events in 2017, such as a robotics competition 
called Battle Lab Robotica, and organized an Emerson Open Doors Day where 
775 participants attended presentations at Emerson and visited our factories.
HURRICANE HARVEY RECOVERY IN HOUSTON
The greater Houston area is home to 2,100 Emerson employees. Roughly 10 
percent of these employees were significantly impacted by the catastrophic rainfall-triggered flooding that occurred, including being displaced from their 
homes or suffering from property damage or loss. In the days and weeks after 
the hurricane hit, scores of Emerson volunteers helped their fellow employees 
and other residents salvage belongings from flood-damaged homes and begin 
the rebuilding process. In addition, our Ridge Tool business shipped in 100 wet/
dry vacuums to aid in the cleanup efforts. 
HANK GREEN
EMERSON VOLUNTEERS FOR 
HURRICANE HARVEY SUPPORT  
Houston, TXCorporate Social Responsibility Report32 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
COSTA RICA VOLUNTEERS
Emerson employees in Costa Rica have volunteered with the Lifting Hands 
Foundation and the World Vision organization that serve at-risk children, 
participated in blood donations at the local blood bank, donated food 
and supplies for people affected by natural catastrophes and visited with 
residents at a nursing home in Santa Ana. 
CHINA CHARITABLE PROGRAM
Emerson’s China Charitable Program, launched in 2009 to fulfill the 
company’s commitment to be a good corporate citizen, focuses on the key 
areas of education, health and human service, and civic to enhance quality 
of life in Chinese communities. This charitable program seeks to leverage our core capabilities and interest in engineering technology solutions and 
infrastructure development.   
Through its China Charitable Program, Emerson is a long-time corporate 
sponsor of Water Cellars for Mothers projects sponsored by the China 
Women’s Development Foundation, which helps relieve the water shortage 
in poverty-stricken villages with no direct access to clean running water. 
Over the years Emerson has donated nearly $1 million to these projects and 
employees have participated in many hours of volunteer work. These efforts 
have helped bring clean water to more than 5,000 villagers in western 
China, and employees from Shenzhen, Shanghai, Suzhou, Shenyang, 
Xian, Tianjin, Beijing, Lanzhou, Kunming, Hong Kong and Chengdu have 
volunteered their time to visit the villages to assess effectiveness and 
impact of the program. For our ongoing efforts, Emerson was awarded 
the China Charity Award for Women and Children in 2017 for the fourth 
consecutive year.
In 2017, Emerson joined the Congenital Heart Disease (CHD) relief program 
initiated by the Chinese Red Cross Foundation to help children with CHD 
receive medical treatment in middle west Asia areas. Our employees 
volunteered to provide donations and hospital visits.
Emerson is also a supporter of the New Great Wall Program, which provides 
financial assistance to more than 100 students from underprivileged families 
to attend university each year. Our employees are able to take part in the 
program through volunteer teaching opportunities. The programs and 
schools we support provide the foundation to create leaders, business 
managers and skilled individuals who can lead and thrive in a changing world. 
In recognition of the company’s support for social responsibility activities 
that contribute to sustainable development and innovative operations in 
China, Emerson received the Corporate Social Responsibility Innovation 
Award from the China Business News in 2016.
CONGENITAL HEART DISEASE (CHD)  
RELIEF PROGRAM  
ChinaCorporate Social Responsibility Report33 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
INDIA CHARITABLE PROGRAM
In India, our charitable program seeks to support initiatives with impactful 
and enduring results. Aligned with country regulations, the India Charitable 
Program is focused on promoting continuity in education for disadvantaged 
youth. In 2017, we provided support to the following nongovernment 
organizations (NGOs):
 >  Masoom – in support of its skill development courses, delivered in 
partnership with the “Night School Transformation Program” to more than 
200 first-generation learners from economically disadvantage sections of 
the society.
 >  Purkal Youth Development Society – in support of formal education 
classes for children below the poverty line, and the development of 
communities through activities, including furnishing a girls hostel.
 >  Agastya International Foundation – in support of its innovative science 
education program for economically disadvantaged youth attending 
government schools in the cities of Pune and Pilani. 
 >  SOS Children’s Villages of India – in support of its programs that help 
1,000 youth across 32 villages, which provide a nurturing and educational 
environment, and a network of support from a young age through employment.
 > Lend-A-Hand India – in support of its mission to make a difference in the 
lives of poor secondary school students through self-help. The program 
provides skill development in 30 schools, making education practical and relevant to create employment opportunities. 
PHILIPPINES CSR PROGRAMS
In supporting Philippine communities, Emerson focuses on education 
programs, leading and supporting STEM programs nationwide, as well as promoting diversity and sustainability. 
The Emerson Scholarship Program in the Philippines – developed in 2015 
in partnership with the American Chamber (AmCham) Foundation of the 
Philippines – is a comprehensive educational assistance program that 
offers deserving students not only financial aid, but also mentorship and employment opportunities in the organization once they have completed 
their schooling. Since 2016, Emerson has sponsored a total of 61 Emerson 
Scholars in the Philippines. Additionally, Emerson has participated in 
fundraising projects such as the annual ScholaRun, which benefits the 
AmCham Foundation’s scholarship program. 
Support for partner academic institutions is marked with initiatives to equip 
students in research such as computer, mini library and instrumentation 
laboratory donations, and to encourage their passion for STEM through talks, 
facility tours and educational activities. We also donated 1,200 boxes of learning 
tools to underprivileged school children in the Payatas community in Quezon City.
AMCHAM FOUNDATION SCHOLARUN
Philippines
SOS CHILDREN’S VILLAGES OF INDIA  
IndiaCorporate Social Responsibility Report34 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
In 2017, Emerson embarked on a nationwide STEM classroom caravan through 
the Science Explorer Bus of the Department of Science and Technology and the 
National Encampments of the Girl Scouts of the Philippines. The series of roving 
educational STEM modules and activities created by Emerson employees is the 
first of its kind initiated in the country by a private sector firm. In recognition 
of this successful “WE LOVE STEM” campaign, Emerson received a Gold Anvil 
Award from the Public Relations Society of the Philippines for efforts that 
sparked interest of the country’s young innovators to pursue a career in STEM.
As a testament to our commitment to a sustainable environment, our employees 
participated in a Strategic Tree Planting project where 1,200 seedlings were 
planted in the Sierra Madre Mountain Range in Laguna. 
NATIONWIDE “WE LOVE STEM” CARAVAN
PhilippinesCorporate Social Responsibility Report35
Integrity & Ethics
Our company’s leadership team is required to communicate and reinforce 
our company’s commitment to compliance with applicable laws, rules 
and regulations, proper handling of proprietary data and information, and 
accurate financial reporting is communicated and reinforced through our 
Ethics and Compliance Program. Employees are urged to communicate 
questions or concerns about compliance in whatever way they feel 
comfortable, including through our global whistleblowing system operated 
by an independent third party. 
The Emerson Board of Directors, in conjunction with a senior management 
Ethics Committee, oversees the program and has ultimate responsibility for 
its success. The internal Ethics Committee, which is comprised of the chief 
financial officer, chief operating officer, vice president of human resources, 
vice president of internal audit and general counsel, meets monthly or as 
needed. Senior management and the Board of Directors regularly review 
and update the program, as appropriate. Policies and documents that support Emerson’s Business Ethics Program are outlined below. 
EMPLOYEE CODE OF CONDUCT  
Emerson’s Employee Code of Conduct handbook sets baseline standards for 
how we do business around the world. The latest version of our handbook was 
published in October 2017 and is publicly available at Emerson.com/Ethics. This 
handbook has been translated into more than 20 languages for our global Emerson is committed to maintaining a culture of ethical conduct and legal 
compliance. Integrity is a core value of our company and informs every decision 
we make. We expect the highest standards of honest and ethical behavior from 
all of our employees and communicate our expectations through our Ethics and 
Compliance Program, a set of policies and practices honed over the past two 
decades to define ethical conduct for every Emerson employee in interactions 
with each other, customers, suppliers, communities and other stakeholders. Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Employees are urged to 
communicate questions or concerns about compliance in whatever way they feel comfortable.Corporate Social Responsibility Report36
workforce, made available to all employees and forms the basis for our annual 
ethics trainings for all employees. 
Supplementary ethics guidelines on the special responsibilities of the 
company’s Executive Officers and members of the Company’s Board of 
Directors apply to these individuals and are publicly available on Emerson.com.
CEO AND SENIOR FINANCIAL OFFICER CODE OF ETHICS  
In addition, the Emerson Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers Code of 
Ethics conveys the roles, responsibilities and expectations for top corporate 
officers in exhibiting and promoting integrity and in providing accurate and 
timely financial reporting. 
ANNUAL ETHICS TRAINING
We reinforce our Ethics and Compliance Program with annual all-employee 
training to ensure that every employee is informed and following the 
requirements of the program. This commitment to training also helps to 
ensure that every employee is aware of the latest important updates to our 
governance principles and practices. 
These annual training sessions are generally done face-to-face with various 
levels of management conducting the training, which encourages dialogue 
that helps Emerson leaders identify and address emerging questions or 
issues and demonstrate the company’s compliance culture. We also use the 
interactions to ensure that every employee understands how to report any 
ethical concern without apprehension or fear of retaliation. 
As part of our global employee engagement surveys, we ask employees if they 
have a good understanding of our ethics program and if they know whom 
to contact in the event they need to discuss or report an ethics issue. Results 
of these surveys have shown a high level of awareness among employees 
worldwide of our ethics and compliance policies and how to raise a concern, which indicate ethics trainings and management reinforcement are making 
an impact. These survey scores have gone up over the last decade, indicating 
increasing awareness of our Ethics program. 
ETHICS HOTLINE AND COMMUNICATION
To facilitate the communication of ethical concerns or questions, we provide 
internet and phone access to an Ethics and Compliance Hotline for our 
employees globally. Reports to the hotline may be filed anonymously and 
without fear of retribution; we tolerate no form of reprisal against employees for reporting concerns. 
Ethics Hotline emails or calls are received by an independent company, which 
reports the information to a limited number of experienced and specialized 
Emerson management personnel for investigation and response. The program 
is audited by internal and external auditors each year and is revised regularly 
to improve the program. The chairperson of the Audit Committee of the 
Board of Directors directly receives finance-related hotline reports from the 
 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Ethics Hotline emails or calls 
are received by an independent company, which reports the information to a limited number of experienced and specialized Emerson management personnel for investigation and response. Corporate Social Responsibility Report37
independent hotline provider. The Committee reviews serious ethics and 
compliance allegations and receives a report on the resolution of any such 
allegations. Once a year the Board’s Corporate Governance Committee 
receives a summary of all allegations (hotline and internally reported). 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST EVALUATION AND REPORTING
Emerson conducts an annual reporting process to determine whether any 
potential conflicts of interest exist between the company and any of its 
Directors, officers or employees. Each year, a questionnaire is administered 
to all employees in a position to influence and/or receive personal gain at the 
company’s expense. The questionnaires are available in 21 languages, and 
approximately 39,000 Directors, officers and employees responded in 2017. 
All newly reported responses indicating a potential conflict of interest issue 
are reported to the Ethics Committee. All such responses are investigated and 
resolved. The Board of Directors’ Governance and Nominating Committee 
provides oversight for Emerson’s conflict of interest policies and receives a report annually on the results of the Conflict of Interest Evaluation process.
ANTI-CORRUPTION CONTROLS
Emerson articulates its anti-corruption internal control requirements in an 
Internal Control Questionnaire (“ICQ”). All business units are required to 
complete the ICQ and to certify on a quarterly basis that their ICQ is accurate 
and that the business unit has implemented the required internal controls. 
Emerson audits approximately 50 locations per year to ensure appropriate anti-
corruption internal controls are in place. Emerson utilizes a risk assessment model 
to identify audit targets, and all locations that operate in high-risk countries and 
industries are audited at least once every three years. Emerson also operates 
an anonymous hotline that employees can use to escalate potential corruption 
issues, and all hotline allegations are thoroughly investigated.
Emerson includes anti-corruption information in its annual ethics training, which is received by all employees worldwide. The training is modified each 
year in response to risks identified during the previous year’s audits. Emerson 
also requires all employees in contact with customers, government officials, 
third party intermediaries and suppliers to complete an online anti-corruption training program once every three years. Additional face-to-face and webcast training also is available. Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Emerson audits approximately 
50 locations worldwide each year to ensure anti-corruption internal controls are in place. Corporate Social Responsibility Report38
Corporate  
Governance
Board of Directors
Emerson’s Board of Directors is elected by shareholders to provide oversight 
and strategic guidance to senior management. The core responsibility of the 
Board is to exercise its fiduciary duty to act diligently and in the best interests 
of all the Company’s shareholders. The Board selects and oversees the 
members of senior management, to whom the Board delegates the authority 
and responsibility for the conduct of the day-to-day operations of the 
business. The Board of Directors provides guidance and oversight regarding 
the management of the Company and is responsible for establishing all 
significant Company policies, overseeing compliance with those policies and 
approving all significant Company transactions.     
BOARD OF DIRECTORS POLICIES
Emerson’s principles and practices are driven by its Board of Directors, which ensures that they are shaped by highly independent, diverse viewpoints and deep management expertise. Our Board’s composition and 
operation are guided by Emerson’s Corporate Governance Principles and 
Practices , which include the following guidelines:
 >  Independence.  The majority of Board members must remain independent, 
and this independence is confirmed at least annually. Emerson’s Board 
currently includes seven independent members and just one inside 
Director, Emerson’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David N. Farr. 
Our Director Independence Standards are contained in Annex II to our 
Corporate Governance Principles and Practices.  
 >  Composition.  Board members must bring senior management business 
experience or experience in government or other relevant organizations. 
We seek a diversity of viewpoints on our Board that helps us to 
understand and anticipate changes in our business environment, as 
well as ethnic and gender diversity. We currently have two female Board 
members appointed in 2014 and 2017, respectively. Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Emerson’s principles and 
practices are driven by its Board of Directors, which ensures that they are shaped by highly independent, diverse viewpoints and deep management expertise.Corporate Social Responsibility Report39 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
 >  Committees.  To provide sustained, specialized and in-depth oversight in 
certain areas, Emerson’s Board of Directors has five committees: Audit, 
Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Executive 
and Finance. All committees except for the Executive Committee are 
comprised entirely of independent Board members. More information 
about our Board Committees and their charters is available in the 
Corporate Governance section of Emerson.com.
 >  Leadership.   Our Board chairman is CEO David N. Farr. The Board believes 
that it should have the flexibility to make the determination of whether the 
same person should serve as both the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman 
of the Board at any given point in time or if the roles should be separate. The 
Board believes that its current leadership structure, with Mr. Farr serving as 
both Chief Executive Officer and as Chairman of the Board, as well as Chair 
of our Executive Committee, is appropriate given Mr. Farr’s past success and 
extensive experience serving in these roles, the efficiencies of having the 
Chief Executive Officer also serve in the role of Chairman, the Company’s 
strong corporate governance structure, including the newly adopted Lead 
Independent Director position and the Company’s financial performance 
under Mr. Farr’s leadership.  
The Board also has established a Lead Independent Director position 
who serves as the key liaison between the Chairman and the rest of the Board. The duties of the Lead Independent Director include presiding 
at Board meetings at which the Chairman is absent, including executive sessions of independent or non-management Directors, reviewing and 
consulting with the Chairman regarding meeting agendas and schedules 
and information to be sent to the Board, calling meetings of independent 
or non-management Directors, consulting with major shareholders and 
serving on the executive committee. The Company publishes in its annual 
proxy statement the manner in which shareholders can communicate with 
any Director, including the Lead Independent Director.
 >  Non-Management Director Meetings.  The Company’s non-management 
Directors periodically schedule and hold executive sessions in which 
management does not participate. The Lead Independent Director and 
the other non-management Directors determine the length, topics of 
discussion and procedures for these meetings. If, in any year, one or more of 
the non-management Directors is not independent, the independent, non-
management Directors hold at least one executive session in which only 
such independent, non-management Directors participate.To provide sustained, 
specialized and in-depth oversight in certain areas, Emerson’s Board of Directors has five committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Executive and Finance.Corporate Social Responsibility Report40
Recent Corporate Governance Actions 
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee periodically reviews 
the Company’s governance principles and practices in light of feedback from 
shareholders, industry trends and the risks and opportunities facing the 
Company.  When the Committee determines any such changes are necessary, 
it recommends the changes to the full Board to approve any required policy 
amendments. As a result of this review, the Company has recently taken the 
following corporate governance actions: 
 >  Adopted an amendment to the Company’s Bylaws to provide 
shareholders with a proxy access right which, subject to certain 
limitations, permits a holder (or a group of not more than 20 holders) 
of at least 3 percent of the Company’s outstanding common stock 
to nominate and include in the Company’s proxy materials director 
nominees constituting up to the greater of two individuals or 20 percent 
of the Board, provided that the nominating holder(s) and the nominee(s) 
satisfy the requirements specified in the Bylaws.
 >  Submitted to shareholders at the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders 
a proposal to amend the Company’s Articles of Incorporation to allow 
shareholders the right to amend the Company’s Bylaws and recommend 
that shareholders vote in favor of the proposal. Unfortunately, the 
proposal did not receive the required support to pass.
 >  Submitted to shareholders at the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders 
a non-binding advisory proposal to ratify the exclusive forum Bylaw adopted by the Board in August 2016.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES 
Emerson’s Board of Directors establishes guidelines for Board operations 
and ethical conduct via its Statement of Corporate Governance Principles and Practices. This statement outlines how Emerson must govern for full 
compliance with the law and in the best interests of our constituencies. It 
includes comprehensive rules and criteria for Board roles and responsibilities, 
from management oversight and performance reporting to director 
independence standards. Refer to our Statement of Corporate Governance 
Principles and Practices for further information.  
RISK MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT
The Board as a whole has responsibility for the oversight of Emerson’s risk 
management process. This process is designed to provide to the Board timely 
visibility into the identification, assessment and management of critical 
risks. The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility for risk 
assessment and risk management, including major financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor, mitigate and control such 
exposures, as well as oversight of the Company’s environmental activities, 
audits and expenditures.   Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Emerson’s Board of Directors 
establishes guidelines for Board operations and ethical conduct via its Statement of Corporate Governance Principles and Practices.Corporate Social Responsibility Report41 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s conflict of interest policies, codes of ethics, political activities 
and compliance with laws and regulations, including oversight of the 
Company’s political spending activities. The formal, annual risk assessment 
process includes surveys of all business unit Presidents and interviews with 
all business leaders, corporate functional leaders and members of the Office 
of the Chief Executive. For each risk, the magnitude and probability of the 
risk occurring are determined. In addition, the employee responsible for 
mitigating the risk and the mitigation plan and timeline are documented.
The full Board, or the appropriate Committee, receives this risk assessment 
information annually to enable it to understand and monitor Emerson’s 
risk management process. Information brought to the attention of the 
Committees is shared with the full Board as appropriate. Ongoing risk 
assessments in various areas are also conducted as part of Emerson’s normal 
management process and the results of those assessments are shared with 
the Board or relevant Committee as needed throughout the year. This 
could include potential issues such as ethics or human rights violations, environmental risks, etc.
The Compensation Committee annually reviews management’s process for 
assessing risk in the company’s compensation programs for its employees, 
including the company’s executive compensation program and practices. 
The Committee also reviews management’s longstanding internal process 
and controls for compensation programs for employees who do not 
participate in the executive compensation program. Based on the results 
of these reviews, the Committee makes a determination of whether our compensation programs create risks that are reasonably likely to have a 
material adverse effect on our business and recommends changes to the 
compensation programs to address any such risks.  
BOARD EVALUATION PROCESS
The Board of Directors and each Board Committee conduct an annual self-
evaluation process to determine whether the Board and its Committees are effectively performing the responsibilities required of them. Each Director completes an evaluation survey regarding the full Board and each Committee on which the Director serves. This survey includes numerical evaluations of 
performance, as well as an opportunity for the Directors to make narrative 
comments regarding the performance of the Board, each Committee and 
individual Directors. The survey results are reviewed by the Corporate 
Governance and Nominating Committee, and the results are communicated to 
the full Board, with an emphasis on areas where the surveys indicate areas where 
Board practice could be modified or improved. The results of the Committee 
surveys are shared with the Chair and members of each Committee for discussion at each Committee’s next regularly scheduled meeting. Corporate Social Responsibility Report42 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Political Contributions
Emerson participates in the U.S. political process through our federal 
political action committee (PAC), the “Emerson PAC,” our “Missouri PAC,” the 
Emerson Missouri Responsible Government Fund, and occasionally and as 
permitted by law, direct Company contributions. Emerson and the Emerson 
political action committees (PAC) are non-partisan. 
All contributions from either the PACs or from our Company are made solely 
on the basis of issues of importance to our company, our employees and our shareholders.  Contributions are made to support pro-manufacturing, 
pro-business and pro-economic growth policies, and specifically include 
trade, taxes, energy, healthcare, environment and legal liability, to name a 
few. In making contribution decisions, both the Company and the PAC boards 
consider the views, quality and effectiveness of the candidate, organization or cause, and whether the candidate or cause is likely to succeed. They also 
review organizations and individuals associated with proposed recipients to 
determine whether the positions taken by those organizations or individuals 
could be inconsistent with Emerson’s interests.  
As part of its oversight role for Company political activities, the Board of 
Directors’ Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee oversees policies 
and practices related to the company’s political spending. The committee approves an annual contribution limit on expenditures to support state and 
local political candidates, as well as those for campaigns, ballot issues and 
bonds. The total annual contribution limit is $1 million. The Committee receives 
a report annually on all of the Company’s political spending.
All Company political expenditures are initially reviewed by Emerson’s 
government affairs office in Washington, D.C. Proposed contributions are 
then reviewed by the office of the General Counsel to assure legal compliance. 
Final authorization is required from the Chief Executive Officer. 
U.S. law prohibits companies from contributing to candidates for federal 
office. However, in states where corporate contributions are permitted by 
law, Emerson may make contributions to state and local candidates, political 
organizations and ballot issues of importance to our company or may make 
such contributions from the Missouri PAC. Any contributions to candidates 
or ballot issues from the Company are subject to reporting by the recipient candidate or ballot issue committees, pursuant to the laws of the state or 
locality where the committee is formed.  
PAC CONTRIBUTIONS
The Emerson PAC supports federal candidates and committees, as well as 
other candidates and party organizations where permitted by law, through 
voluntary, after-tax contributions by Emerson employees and retirees who 
choose to pool their resources in the Emerson PAC to support candidates who 
share the values and goals of the Company. The Federal Election Commission 
(FEC) regulates activities of the Emerson PAC. All current and prior election Contributions are made to 
support pro-manufacturing, pro-business and pro-economic growth policies, and specifically include trade, taxes, energy, healthcare, environment and legal liability, to name a few.Corporate Social Responsibility Report43
cycle contributions to and from the Emerson PAC are reported to the FEC 
and are available on its website  by searching for “Emerson.” Emerson PAC 
expenditures are reported in our LD-203 reports as filed with the FEC. The 
Missouri PAC is funded with Company contributions to support candidates 
in Missouri, as well as party organizations where permitted by law. A list of 
contributions by the Emerson Missouri Responsible Government Fund is 
available on the Missouri Ethics Commission website by entering “Emerson” 
for the committee name.  
The Emerson Washington, D.C., office generates a list of candidates these PACs 
can support based on the PAC giving criteria, requests from third parties and 
suggestions from PAC members. Outside legal counsel then conducts a review 
of proposed disbursements. Separate boards made up of Emerson employees 
set overall contribution budgets and approve all contributions by each PAC. 
The PAC boards retain counsel to ensure compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. Each PAC undergoes an independent annual audit and legal review.
TRADE ASSOCIATIONS AND LOBBYING
Emerson’s shareholders, employees and customers are keenly affected 
by public policies at all levels of government. To protect shareholder value, 
Emerson maintains a small office in Washington, D.C. to engage with public 
officials at all levels of government to educate them on our company’s 
operations, emerging technologies and markets. This office also follows and, 
when necessary, seeks to influence public policy decisions that impact the 
company and its shareholders. 
These activities are governed and regulated by federal and state laws. With 
the help of knowledgeable employees throughout the company, Emerson’s 
government affairs team identifies and follows issues of importance to 
Emerson. When those issues lend themselves to public policy solutions at the federal level, Emerson’s government affairs team sometimes reaches out to 
policymakers on Capitol Hill and in the Executive Branch to raise awareness 
and educate them as to potential effects of policies under consideration. 
Under federal law, that process is considered “direct lobbying.”  
Sometimes, rather than reaching out directly to policymakers, Emerson 
engages with policymakers on issues through one or more trade associations 
to which Emerson belongs and that share our concerns and interests. That is 
considered “indirect lobbying.” Emerson engages in both direct and indirect 
lobbying. Emerson does not engage in “grassroots” lobbying. All decisions 
about which government policies Emerson seeks to shape are based upon 
what is in the best interests of our industry, our company, our employees and, 
most importantly, our shareholders.
Emerson’s federal lobbying activity is reported in our Lobbying Disclosure Act 
filings, which are publicly available at two websites:
 >  U.S. House of Representatives
 >  U.S. Senate Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Further information about 
Emerson’s policies and procedures for political spending and lobbying, details of such expenditures and links to recent LD-2, LD-203 and Missouri Ethics Commission reports can be found on the Political Contributions and Trade Associations and Lobbying pages of the Emerson website.Corporate Social Responsibility Report44
We hold our suppliers to high standards and expect them to align with 
our stances on social responsibility and ethics, to act with integrity and 
treat people and the environment with respect, as well as stay current 
with technology to deliver the best solutions to our customers. These 
expectations help us maintain and build a global supplier network that always 
stays true to Emerson’s core values.
Emerson is committed to helping our suppliers meet these requirements by 
investing in our information technology systems and capabilities to better track 
compliance and drive continuous improvement.  These investments have the 
potential to strengthen our suppliers, accelerate progress and improve quality 
of life in the regions where they operate throughout the world.
Our supply chain approach enables us to move at the speed of our customers’ 
needs, while always maintaining the highest levels of quality, backed by 
unwavering integrity and responsibility.  And it ensures a strong and flexible 
supply chain positioned to sustain Emerson and its customers for the long haul. Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Supply Chain
At Emerson, our supply chain is essential to helping us solve customer challenges 
and stay ahead of their needs. As our supply chain has expanded and broadened, 
we’ve focused our efforts on picking the right suppliers – those that share our 
values and principles – to help us deliver the best solutions in the right way.
Emerson is committed to 
helping our suppliers meet these requirements by investing in our information technology systems and capabilities to better track compliance and drive continuous improvement.
$4.5 BILLION  
Emerson’s direct material spend with suppliers worldwide in fiscal 2017.Corporate Social Responsibility Report45
Our supplier management practices include:
TRAINING EMERSON EMPLOYEES
Corporate social responsibility efforts address a range of complex 
issues involving suppliers across differing geographies, cultures and 
business practices. Acting responsibly requires knowledge of each 
subject, understanding of laws and practices, and the ability to recognize 
potential deviations. 
To deal with these complexities, Emerson’s annual ethics training helps 
managers and employees engage effectively with stakeholders as they 
communicate Emerson’s priorities and expectations. This training also 
helps improve our ability to recognize, report and support remediation of 
any compliance issues. For example, we recently trained our procurement 
staff in China on new environmental regulations that have gone into 
effect in that country. Our team is now evaluating our China suppliers on 
material and environmental compliance with the new regulations as part 
of our vendor approval process. In 2018, we are developing online training 
for our supply chain teams globally to provide an annual reminder of our 
Supplier Code of Conduct requirements. 
VENDOR PRACTICES
To enhance our knowledge of suppliers and limit the risk of 
inadvertently supporting wrongful practices, we use internal, industry 
and public sources to alert us to improper supply chain behavior. We 
expect supply chain managers in our businesses to make reasonable 
assessments of questionable activity and to ensure that all practices 
conform to Emerson expectations.  We encourage our businesses 
to conduct periodic reviews with large or preferred suppliers, which 
include discussions of social issues such as safety, labor practices and 
environmental compliance.  We are currently engaging with our supply chain stakeholders to determine the most effective means of confirming compliance with Emerson’s expectations.
AFFIRMING SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY
We insist all suppliers operate in a manner that supports Emerson’s 
commitment to conduct business responsibly.  Our supplier agreement 
form contains a “Standards of Conduct” clause, which states that we expect 
suppliers to comply with generally accepted principles regarding ethical 
behavior, labor practices, human rights and environmental protection, 
referencing the Emerson Supplier Code of Conduct. Emerson’s global 
supplier base includes about 18,000 vendors. Currently, almost half of the 
company’s supply chain spend is under contracts containing this clause, and 
we continue to build this percentage over time.
We require all suppliers who want to participate in our e-sourcing initiatives 
to acknowledge their understanding and compliance with our Supplier Code 
of Conduct before they are allowed to bid. We also conduct site visits of select 
new and developing suppliers as part of our qualification process.    Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Corporate Social Responsibility Report46
In 2018, we are implementing an online contract management platform 
and evaluating a supplier qualification module. The contract management 
system, which will be implemented by the end of fiscal 2018, will enable us to 
continue to grow the percentage of spend under contract, which includes our 
Standards of Conduct clause. The supplier qualification module will provide a 
mechanism for collecting environmental, social and governance information 
in the future. In addition, by the end of fiscal 2018, we plan to survey our top 
10 suppliers to evaluate their awareness of and compliance with our Supplier 
Code of Conduct. 
We expect suppliers to abide by our ethical behavior guidelines that 
forbid any Emerson employee or family member from accepting payment from outside parties in connection with supplier transactions. We also 
prohibit suppliers from offering gifts that could influence Emerson-related purchasing decisions.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct was developed for compliance with 
important regulations like the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the 
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. Emerson fully supports these 
and all other efforts to eradicate human trafficking across the globe. View 
our statement on the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and 
United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act of 2015.
MATERIALS COMPLIANCE
At Emerson, we strive for a best-in-class supply chain across our businesses 
and around the world. As a broadly diversified company, we purchase a wide 
variety of raw materials and component parts through our supply chain.  
We are committed to working with suppliers that adhere to the Emerson 
Supplier Code of Conduct and actively manage and demonstrate 
materials compliance with pertinent governmental laws and regulations, 
including REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction 
of Chemicals), RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) and similar 
regional and national legislation. As required by our Supplier Code of 
Conduct, all of our suppliers must acknowledge that they follow our 
environmental principles in their own operations to help ensure we are 
sustainably sourcing materials used in our production processes.
In February 2018, we implemented an online system that is being adopted 
company-wide to help ensure compliance tracking in these areas across our 
diverse global supply chain. View Emerson’s Materials Compliance practices. 
EMERSON CONFLICT MINERALS STATEMENT
Emerson supports all efforts to end the human suffering and 
environmental impact that has been associated with mining in the 
Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. Emerson is  Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
18,000+  
Number of Emerson suppliers worldwide in 2017.Corporate Social Responsibility Report47 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
committed to meeting all legislative and regulatory requirements that 
seek to eradicate this suffering. Together with other major manufacturers, 
Emerson is a member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), 
formerly known as the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative, that is working with a range of industries to ensure responsible mineral sourcing in their 
supply chains and address any related issues. 
Emerson expects its suppliers and their suppliers to acquire minerals only from responsible sources. Our expectations are described in more detail 
on our website at Emerson Conflict Minerals Statement and Form SD filing:  
Conflict Minerals Report for the Year Ended December 31, 2016 .
REGIONAL SOURCING
Since 2000, Emerson has made significant strides toward regionalizing 
our operations in terms of sourcing of inputs, design, manufacturing, 
sales, and our service footprint. This regionalization strategy facilitates speed, cost savings, and cash-flow generation, while supporting local 
customer needs and regulatory mandates in the countries in which we operate. Our strategy provides economic benefits for local suppliers 
and communities within these world regions, as well as helps reduce 
transportation costs and emissions.
Europe/Middle East  
for 
 Europe/Middle East  
74% Americas for  
Americas 
85% Asia for Asia 
89% Emerson’s Current Regionalized Supply Chain* 
* Percentage of Emerson supply chain spend for manufacturing within a region that comes from suppliers within that same region.Corporate Social Responsibility Report48 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
Emerson Supplier Code of Conduct
Emerson expects its suppliers to project its values and principles, to stay 
current with technology and to act with integrity and treat people and the 
environment with respect – all actions that reflect Emerson’s priorities. In 
this way, we are able to employ high caliber suppliers that demonstrate 
responsibility and a commitment to fairness and honesty. 
We encourage all of our suppliers to familiarize themselves with this statement 
as we expect each supplier to adhere to these principles. The following summary 
provides an overview of these principles.
ETHICS
 >  Highest Ethical Behavior – Our policies and practices direct Emerson 
employees to conduct business lawfully and ethically wherever we operate. 
We adhere to firm, uncompromising standards for Emerson’s leadership 
and employees with respect to interactions with customers, suppliers, 
government agencies and the public and we demand that our suppliers 
support this requirement as they work on Emerson business.
 >  Anti-corruption – We expect our suppliers to comply with all laws 
and regulations forbidding payment of money, products, gifts or 
services, directly or indirectly, to any individuals or entities in order to 
corruptly induce favorable business treatment or to corruptly affect 
governmental decisions.
 >  Conflicts of Interest – Emerson considers it inappropriate for suppliers’ 
employees to have any personal, business or financial interest that conflicts 
with his or her responsibilities to their employer.
 >  Ethics Hotline – To facilitate reporting of ethics concerns, we provide Emerson 
employees and suppliers an Ethics Hotline in the more than 80 countries in 
which we operate. Reports to the hotline are anonymous if requested. We 
tolerate no form of reprisal against employees or suppliers who report concerns. 
Employees and suppliers can report a concern related to business conduct 
issues by calling Emerson’s Ethics and Compliance Hotline toll free (in North 
America) at 1-800-893-2525 or collect at +1-770-582-5243.
HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR
 >  Conditions of Employment – We stress to our suppliers the importance 
of operating with reasonable working hours to maintain a positive and 
productive work environment consistent with commonly accepted practices in each locale. We oppose any form of forced, bonded or 
indentured labor, or involuntary prison work. Further, compensation 
practices should comply with applicable wage laws, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime compensation and legally mandated benefits.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report49 Stewardship  |  People & Workplace  |  Community  |   Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |    Supply Chain
 >  Discrimination – Our company expects suppliers to prohibit discrimination 
against or harassment of any employee or applicant on the basis of race, 
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability, national origin, or any 
other factor deemed unlawful.
 >  Freedom to Associate – Suppliers should respect the rights of workers to 
associate freely and seek representation in accordance with local laws.
 >  Humane Treatment – Emerson objects to any form of harsh or inhumane 
treatment, including sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal 
punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal abuse.
 >  Prohibition of Child Labor – Our policies oppose child labor and we forbid 
our suppliers to use child labor in any facility or business.
 >  Working and Living Conditions – We expect our suppliers to have a healthy 
and safe working environment in accordance with all applicable laws and 
regulations and to protect employees from short, immediate and long-
term harm. Where housing is provided, we expect our suppliers to provide 
a healthy and safe living environment for employees in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
OTHER
 >  Environment – Suppliers should operate their facilities in a manner that 
protects the environment and meets or exceeds applicable laws and regulations. We further stress the need to our suppliers to foster programs 
that reduce energy consumption and waste in their facilities and we 
emphasize the importance of creating innovative products and services 
that improve energy efficiency and reduce environmental harm.
 >  Management Systems – Suppliers should maintain a management system 
that demonstrates adoption of the principles embodied in this Supplier 
Code of Conduct and that tracks and documents compliance with all 
applicable laws, government policies and regulations.
 >  Supply Chain Management – Emerson expects its suppliers to use their best 
efforts to extend the principles embodied in this Supplier Code of Conduct 
to their suppliers and agents that are engaged in the production, supply 
and support of products or services for Emerson.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report50
2017
REFERENCED GRI
STANDARDS INDEXCorporate Social Responsibility Report51
GRI Standard
NumberGRI StandardTitleDisclosureTitleLocation
GRI 102-2 General 
DisclosuresActivities, brands, products, and services Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  Company Profile, p. 6
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K:  Item 1 - BusinessEmerson.com
GRI 102-4 General 
DisclosuresLocation of operations
Emerson.com:  Contact Us
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K:  Item 2 – PropertiesEmerson.com:  Investor Fact Sheet
GRI 102-6 General 
DisclosuresMarkets served
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K: Item 1 - Business
GRI 102-10 General DisclosuresSignificant changes to the organization and its supply chain
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K:  Item 1 - Business
Emerson 2017 Annual Report: Letter to Shareholders
GRI 102-12 General 
DisclosuresExternal initiatives Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Minimizing Environmental Impact Through Facility Design and Operating Procedures), p. 14
Member of: Responsible Minerals Initiative , CEO 
Action for Diversity & Inclusion, International Water 
Association, European Partnership for Energy & the Environment, National Association of Clean Water Agencies (NACWA),United States Green Building Council (USGBC), Water Environment Federation (WEF)
GRI 102-14 General DisclosuresStatement from senior decision-maker
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Letter from David Farr, p. 4General DisclosuresName of the organization
General DisclosuresLocation of headquarters
General DisclosuresOwnership and legal form
General DisclosuresScale of the organization
General DisclosuresPrecautionary Principle or approach
General DisclosuresMembership of associationsGRI 102-1 Emerson Electric Company
GRI 102-3 Emerson Electric Co.
8000 West Florissant Avenue, P.O. Box 4100St. Louis MO 63136United States
GRI 102-5
Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance - Articles of 
Incorporation
GRI 102-7 Emerson 2017 Form 10-K: Item 1 - Business
Emerson.com:  Investor Fact Sheet
GRI 102-11 Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Governance (Risk 
Management and Oversight), p. 40
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk Factors
GRI 102-13 Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Company Profile 
(Memberships), p. 8
General 
DisclosuresInformation on employees and other workersGRI 102-8
Partially reported: 
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: People & Workplace, p. 17General Disclosures
Corporate Social Responsibility Report51
General 
DisclosuresKey impacts, risks, and opportunitiesGRI 102-15
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Governance (Risk 
Management and Oversight), p. 40  
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K:  Item 1A – Risk FactorsCorporate Social Responsibility Report52
GRI Standard
NumberGRI StandardTitleDisclosureTitleLocation
General DisclosuresGRI 102-19 Delegating authority 
Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Principles and 
Practices – Board Oversight of Management)
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: 
 >En
vironmental Stewardship (Environmental 
Principles),  p. 13
 >C
orporate Governance, p. 38
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-22 Composition of the highest 
governance body and its committeesEmerson.com:  Corporate Governance
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Governance (Board of 
Directors Policies), p. 38
Emerson 2018 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 6
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and 
Practices)
Emerson 2017 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 10
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body 
in setting purpose, values, and strategyEmerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Principles and Practices), p. 38
Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Principles and 
Practices)
Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Committee 
Charters)
Emerson 2017 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 5General 
DisclosuresChair of the highest 
governance body 
General 
DisclosuresConflicts of interest GRI 102-23
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles and 
Practices)
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Governance (Board of 
Directors Policies), p. 38
Emerson 2018 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 6
GRI 102-25 Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Integrity & Ethics (Conflict 
of Interest Evaluation and Reporting), p. 37
Emerson.com: Integrity and EthicsGeneral 
DisclosuresGovernance structure GRI 102-18 Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  Corporate Governance, p. 38
Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Principles and 
Practices)
Corporate Social Responsibility Report52
General DisclosuresMechanisms for advice and concerns about ethicsGRI 102-17
Emerson.com:   Corporate Governance (Ethics and Compliance)
Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  Integrity & Ethics 
 >(Ethi
cs Program Handbook for Employees), p. 35
 >(Ethi
cs Hotline and Communication), p. 36
Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  Environmental Stewardship 
(Grievance Mechanisms), p. 15
Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  People & Workplace 
(Grievance Mechanisms & Reporting), p. 15GRI 102-16 General DisclosuresValues, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 
Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  Integrity & Ethics, p. 35
Emerson.com:  Corporate Governance (Business Ethics)People & Workplace (Our Values), p. 18
General 
DisclosuresEvaluating the highest governance body’s performanceGRI 102-29
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Corporate Governance 
(Board Evaluation Process), p. 41
Emerson 2018 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 9Corporate Social Responsibility Report53
General 
Disclosures
General 
DisclosuresGeneral 
Disclosures
Effectiveness of risk management processes 
Review of economic, 
environmental, and social topicsIdentifying and managing 
economic, environmental, and social impacts
GRI 102-30
GRI 102-31GRI 102-29
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Corporate Governance  
(Risk Management and Oversight), p. 23-24
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk Factors
Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  Corporate Governance 
(Risk Management and Oversight), p. 40
Emerson.com:  Audit Committee CharterEmerson.com:  Audit Committee CharterEmerson 2017 CSR Report: Corporate Governance 
(Risk Management and Oversight), p. 40
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk FactorsGRI Standard
NumberGRI StandardTitleDisclosureTitleLocation
General 
DisclosuresProcess for determining remuneration GRI 102-36
Emerson 2018 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement:  Director Compensation, p. 10
Emerson 2018 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement:  
Executive Compensation, p. 16
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K:  Part III
General 
DisclosuresGeneral 
DisclosuresGeneral 
Disclosures
General 
Disclosures
GRI 102-45GRI 102-42GRI 102-40
GRI 102-41
Entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements  Identifying and selecting 
stakeholdersList of stakeholder groups
Collective bargaining agreements
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K:  Subsidiaries and Affiliates of 
Emerson Electric Co., September 30, 2017Emerson solicits and uses feedback from employees, 
customers, investors and analysts, community leaders, suppliers, regulators and NGOs to understand concerns and impacts of our operations on the environment, the economy and local communities. Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  Company Profile  (Memberships), p. 8; and other organizations listed throughout the report
Emerson 2016 CSR Report:  People & Workplace 
(Labor Practices), p. 23
Corporate Social Responsibility Report53
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-35 Remuneration policies Emerson 2018 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement:  
Director Compensation, p. 10
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K:  Part IIIEmerson 2018 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement:  
ExecutiveGeneral 
DisclosuresNature and total number of critical concernsGRI 102-34
Partially reported: 
Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  Integrity & Ethics (Ethics 
Hotline and Communication), p. 36General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  Integrity & Ethics (Ethics 
Hotline and Communication), p. 36; (Conflict of Interest Evaluation and Reporting), p. 37
Emerson 2018 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p.3General 
DisclosuresHighest governance body’s role in sustainability reportingGRI 102-32 The Corporate Social Responsibility Report is reviewed by the Emerson Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee
General 
DisclosuresReporting period GRI 102-50
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: About This Report, p. 56
General DisclosuresReporting cycle GRI 102-52
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: About This Report, p. 56General DisclosuresDate of most recent report GRI 102-51 October 2017Corporate Social Responsibility Report54
GRI Standard
NumberGRI StandardTitleDisclosureTitleLocation
GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumption
GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Partially reported:
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 16Energy
Energy
WaterGRI 302-1 Partially Reported: 
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 16
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship (Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 16
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Environmental Management 
System (Energy Conservation and Efficiency), p. 13Energy consumption within the organization
Corporate Social Responsibility Report54
Anti-competitive behaviorGRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practicesEmerson 2017 Form 10-K:  Legal ProceedingsAnti-corruption GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policiesand proceduresPartially reported:
Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  Integrity & Ethics (Anti-
Corruption Training), p. 37Indirect Economic Impacts
Indirect Economic 
Impacts
Procurement 
PracticesGRI 203-1
GRI 203-2
GRI 204-1Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Community Involvement 
(Corporate Giving), p. 26
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Community Involvement (Corporate Giving), p. 26
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Supply Chain (Regional Sourcing), p. 47Infrastructure investments and services supported
Significant indirect economic 
impacts
Proportion of spending on local 
suppliersEconomic PerformanceGRI 201-1
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K: Financial Review
Economic PerformanceGRI 201-3
Emerson 2017 Form 10-K: Retirement Plans; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, (11) Retirement PlansDirect economic value generated and distributed
Defined benefit plan obligations 
and other retirement plans
Economic IndicatorsGeneral DisclosuresGRI 102-54
This material references GRI Standards as is detailed in this index. See Emerson 2017 CSR Report:  About This Report, p. 56General Disclosures
General 
DisclosuresGRI 102-53
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: About This Report, p. 56
GRI 102-55 Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Referenced GRI Standards Index, p. 50Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI StandardsContact point for questions 
regarding the report 
GRI content index
Environmental Indicators
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 16
Emerson uses an in-house methodology for collecting activity data. Each year, a 
form is sent out to environmental staff at each manufacturing facility that requests the following information:  stationary combustion use, fuel types, amount of fuel purchased/used, mobile combustion fuel type and amount purchased/used, vehicle types and amount of fuel used for each, amount of electricity used, cost of electricity used, how electricity is generated, and any reason for change in emissions from the previous year. These data are compiled and used to calculate Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Scope 1 emissions are calculated using the EPA Center for Corporate Leadership Greenhouse Gas Inventory Guidance – Direct emission from mobile and stationary sources,  January 2016, tables A-1, A-2,  B-1, B-7 and B-8”. Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissionsCorporate Social Responsibility Report55
GRI Standard
NumberGRI StandardTitleDisclosureTitleLocation
Human Rights Assessment
Supplier Social 
Assessment
Public PolicyGRI 412-3
GRI 414-1
GRI 415-1Partially reported:
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Supply Chain (Affirming  
Supplier Responsibility), p. 45
Partially reported:Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Supply Chain (Affirming 
Supplier Responsibility), p. 45
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Governance (Political Contributions), p. 42
Emerson.com:  Political ContributionsSignificant investment agreements 
and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening
New suppliers that were screened 
using social criteria
Political contributionsGRI 405-1
GRI 408-1
GRI 409-1Diversity of governance bodies 
and employees
Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of child labor
Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of forced or compulsory laborPartially Reported:
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: People and Workplace 
(Emerson’s U.S. Workforce), p. 19-20
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Corporate Governance 
(Board of Directors Policies), p. 38
Partially reported (company operations only):
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: People and Workplace (Labor 
Practices), p. 23; (Human Rights), p. 24
Partially reported (company operations only):
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: People and Workplace (Labor 
Practices), p. 23; (Human Rights), p. 24Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Child Labor
Child LaborTypes of injury and rates of injury, 
occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalitiesGRI 403-2
Partially reported:
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: People & Workplace 
(Measuring Success), p. 23
Training and Education
Freedom of 
Association and Collective BargainingGRI 404-2
GRI 407-1Emerson.com: Careers (Learning & Development)
Partially reported (company operations only):
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: People and Workplace (Labor 
Practices), p. 23Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs
Operations and suppliers in which the 
right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at riskOccupational Health and SafetyEnvironmental ComplianceGRI 307-1
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship (Fines and Sanctions), p. 1 5Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulationsEmissions
EmissionsGRI 305-2
GRI 305-5Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions
Reduction of GHG Emissions
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 16
See 305-1 for energy data methodology. Scope 2 emissions are calculated 
using IEA (2015). CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2015 Edition. International Energy Agency. 2.10.2 Direct Global Warming Potentials.” IPCC - Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. IPCC “Calculating Greenhouse Gases.” Calculating Greenhouse Gases. International Carbon Bank Exchange.
Emerson 2017 CSR Report: Environmental Stewardship 
(Greenhouse Gas, Water and Energy Use), p. 16
Social IndicatorsCorporate Social Responsibility ReportAbout This Report 
The Emerson 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report presents information focused 
primarily on data collected and activities that occurred during calendar 2017 or 
Emerson’s fiscal 2017 (October 1, 2016 – September 30, 2017), except where indicated 
otherwise. There were two major divestitures in process during this timeframe and, 
where appropriate, we have indicated whether or not the data we present here includes 
those discontinued businesses.  
This report focuses primarily on information and data on the company’s business and 
operations during 2017.  During 2016, the company sold the Network Power business 
(closed in December 2016) and the power generation and motors and drives businesses 
(closed in May 2017). The company’s most significant acquisition during this time 
period was the purchase of Pentair’s Valves & Controls business (announced in August 
2016 and closed in April 2017).
This year’s report presents information that references selected Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards 2016.  Please see the Referenced GRI Standards Index 
beginning on page 50 for details.
We expect to update this report annually.  However, we undertake no obligation 
to update any statements herein to reflect later developments.  This report may 
contain forward-looking statements that are not strictly historical which involve risk 
and uncertainties.  These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency 
conditions, market demand, pricing, protection of intellectual property, and 
competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in Emerson’s most 
recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the  
U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission.
Any questions or comments regarding this report can be directed to the Emerson Investor Relations Department, 
8000 W. Florissant Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63136, +1-314-553-2197, or email investor.relations@emerson.com .  56
Agastya International Foundation, Air Conditioning Contractors of America, Air-Conditioning, Heating & Refrigeration Institute, American Biogas Council (ABC), American Chamber of the Philippines, 
American Home Appliance Manufacturers (AHAM), American Society of Plumbing Engineers (ASPE), American Supply Association (ASA), American Water Works Association (AWWA), Boys and Girls Club 
of Greater St. Louis, Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High School, CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, Challenger Learning Center St. Louis, Chinese Red Cross Foundation, CityArchRiver Foundation, 
The Conference Board, Consortium for Graduate Study in Management, Denver School of Science and Technology, European Heat Pump Association, European Partnership for Energy & the Environment, 
Girl Scouts of Eastern Missouri, Girl Scouts of the Philippines, Harris-Stowe State University, Houston Food Bank, International Association of Plumbing & Mechanical Officials (IAPMO), International Water 
Association (IWA), Lend-A-Hand India, Masoom, MenTE, Missouri History Museum, National Association of Clean Water Agencies (NACWA), National Association of Home Builders (NAHB), National 
Association of Manufacturers, National Electrical Manufacturers Association, National Kitchen and Bath Association (NKBA), Plumbing Heating Cooling Contractors of North America (PHCC), Plumbing 
Manufacturers International (PMI), Purkal Youth Development Society, Responsible Minerals Initiative, Ranken Technical College, Science Museum of Minnesota, SME Education Foundation’s PRIME®, 
Society of Women Engineers, SOS Children’s Village of India, United States Green Building Council (USGBC), United Way, University of Dayton, University of Missouri St. Louis, University of Tennessee 
Foundation, Washington University’s STEM Teacher Quality Initiative, Water Cellars for Mothers, Water Environment Federation (WEF), Water Research Foundation, The Works Museum and their related 
designs and logotypes are trademarks, service marks and/or trade names of their owner, and are not owned or affiliated with Emerson.. ©Emerson Electric Co., 2018. All Rights Reserved.Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEmerson
World Headquarters
8000 W. Florissant AvenueP.O. Box 4100St. Louis, MO 63136 USA Emerson.com 