Corporate Social Responsibility Report1
Corporate Social
Responsibility Report2015Corporate Social Responsibility Report1
Environmental Stewardship
Integrity & Ethics 
Corporate Governance
People & Workplace
Supply Chain
Community Involvement04
13
18
21
26
29TABLE OF CONTENTS EMERSON HEADQUARTERS
St. Louis, MOCorporate Social Responsibility Report2
Company Profile
Emerson is a diversified global manufacturing company that brings technology and engineering 
together to provide innovative solutions to customers in the industrial, commercial and consumer 
markets. This report includes information and data from 2015 from our Process Management, Industrial 
Automation, Network Power, Climate Technologies, and Commercial & Residential Solutions businesses 
during that time. In 2015, the company had approximately 111,000 employees and 205 manufacturing 
locations worldwide. We do business in more than 150 countries and the company’s global revenue was 
$22.3 billion in fiscal 2015. Founded in 1890, Emerson is incorporated under Missouri law and is a  
publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange.     
Emerson announced plans in June 2015 to transform its business portfolio to address declining  
sales and earnings and to drive near- and long-term value for our customers and shareholders. 
This strategic repositioning has resulted in the sale of the Network Power business and the power 
generation and motors and drives businesses (consisting of Leroy-Somer and Control Techniques);  
both sales were announced in August 2016 and are expected to close by the end of 2016. Going  
forward, the company portfolio is focused on two core business platforms: Emerson Automation 
Solutions and Emerson Commercial & Residential Solutions. Automation Solutions includes the Process 
Management platform and the remaining Industrial Automation businesses. Commercial & Residential 
Solutions includes the Climate Technologies platform, Copeland, RIDGID and InSinkErator businesses.
Additional information regarding our company and businesses, including products, brands, and 
markets served, can be found at Emerson.com and in our latest Annual Report to Shareholders   
and Form 10-K filing with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission.  Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report3
Dear Stakeholders 
Emerson’s performance over more than 125 years has been 
driven by a straightforward mission:  we design and deliver  
innovative technologies that help our customers solve  
their most complex challenges.
But we also understand that neither Emerson nor its customers achieve success in a vacuum.  We must 
also address the needs of a broader ecosystem – our employees, business partners, shareholders and 
the communities where we operate.  That part of our mission is more complex, and requires us to look 
both inside and beyond our company to understand our role as a trusted partner and the impact we 
can have to make the world a better place. 
The customers and industries that we serve in process, industrial, commercial and residential markets 
provide key building blocks for human progress.  Fuel and energy production that power everything 
we do, and the pipelines, tankers and grids that bring that power to us.  Manufacturing of the materials 
and products that we depend on at work and home.  Heating and cooling systems that support human 
comfort and food safety.  Emerson helps these industries to improve efficiency, maximize reliability and 
achieve new solutions that improve the quality of life.
We must also look closely at Emerson’s own operations to ensure we are efficient and environmentally 
responsible.  That we conduct our business with the highest levels of integrity and responsibility.  That 
we provide equal opportunity and maximum safety for all of our employees, in everything we do.  And 
that we make a positive impact on the communities where we operate to benefit our employees, their 
families and society as a whole. 
All of us at Emerson take these responsibilities very seriously.  We have established processes,  
guidelines and objectives in these areas to ensure that we are not only complying with laws, regulations 
and benchmarks, but that we are continually enhancing our business and our operations to benefit all  
of the parties that are connected to us.  
  Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report4
These efforts are backed by Emerson’s comprehensive operational program to drive continual internal 
improvements that exceed customers’ expectations, which we call Perfect Execution.  As part of 
the program, we are implementing changes that help maximize safety for our workers; improve the 
environmental profile of our facility operations; and encourage more efficient use of natural resources  
in our manufacturing processes.
Today, Emerson is going through substantial change as we realign our businesses to increase our value 
to our stakeholders and build toward our Perfect Execution objectives.  It makes for an ideal time 
to measure and establish benchmarks for how we are doing in addressing the needs of our broader 
ecosystem as well.  This report serves as that measure, providing detailed background on our efforts in  
the following areas:
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
INTEGRITY & ETHICS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
PEOPLE & WORKPLACE
SUPPLY CHAIN
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
We are proud of our accomplishments in each of these areas, but we also understand the need for 
continual effort and improvement.  We see this 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report as the beginning of 
an ongoing dialogue with you on our efforts and our progress. Further information regarding key trends, 
risks and opportunities impacting the long term financial performance of Emerson can be found in our 
Annual Report to Shareholders and our Form 10-K Annual Report, which can be found here .
David N. Farr
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report5
Environmental
Stewardship
THE HELIX INNOVATION CENTER
Emerson launched its Helix initiative 
dedicated to advancing research for the food sustainability, global heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration (HVACR) industries. Emerson and the industries we serve stand at the intersection of two of 
humanity’s most urgent goals – the need to improve quality of life for 
people around the globe, and the imperative that we must do so while 
reducing our impact on our environment.  Together, these goals ensure  
that we drive progress for today and for the generations that come.
Emerson is committed to delivering innovations that help customers in 
energy, manufacturing and a wide range of other industries to advance 
both of these critical goals.  We provide technologies that help our 
customers reduce energy use, build new efficiencies into plant operations, 
reduce food waste and get the most from finite resources.
If we operate more reliably and more efficiently, we can both improve 
quality of life and reduce environmental impact.  It’s a cornerstone of 
Emerson’s business, and a philosophy that we embrace throughout  
our own operations.
Emerson Innovations Reduce Energy 
Consumption and Waste   
Across our business units, Emerson’s core mission is to deliver solutions 
that enable our customers to operate at peak efficiency and performance.  
We help customers to maximize reliability, reduce energy costs, automate 
processes and avoid unexpected issues.
It’s no accident that all of these things also benefit all of us.  Energy efficiency 
and reduced waste mean that the goods that we need are produced with 
less of an impact on the environment and fewer natural resources.  These 
efficiencies are good for business, and they also help our customers improve 
their environmental stewardship.Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report6
Emerson’s products and services address the world’s environmental challenges  
in five ways: 
Enabling efficient use of energy. Emerson innovation minimizes the 
environmental impact of our residential, commercial and industrial 
products. In addition to creating solutions that advance energy efficiency,  
we participate in numerous industry and governmental efforts to define, 
promote and measure efficiency improvements.
Supporting cleaner forms of energy production. Our technologies and 
solutions help shift electrical power generation to approaches that lower 
carbon footprints, utilizing energy sources such as wind, solar, nuclear,  
hydro and natural gas.
Providing technologies that monitor and limit emissions. Our technologies 
provide cost-effective industrial monitoring and better access to emissions  
data and management.
Reducing the environmental impact of refrigeration. In 2015, Emerson 
unveiled a full line of compressors and controls with refrigerants that are more 
than 50 percent lower in global warming potential refrigerants compared to 
the products they were created to replace. 
Reducing and recycling food waste. Our innovative cooling solutions help 
keep food fresher, longer, and we’re breaking new ground in helping businesses and municipalities turn food waste into renewable energy.
Following are a few examples of meaningful Emerson innovation at work for 
customers and society:
DRIVING INDUSTRYWIDE INNOVATION TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCY 
In April 2016, Emerson launched its Helix initiative, including the opening of 
The Helix Innovation Center, an industry-first, $35 million facility dedicated 
to advancing research for the global heating, ventilation, air conditioning 
and refrigeration (HVACR) industry. The Helix Innovation Center will focus 
on advancing HVACR ideas from concept to prototype in 90 days or less, 
generating new opportunities to increase our health and comfort while also 
reducing energy consumption and environmental impact.  To achieve these 
goals, Emerson will collaborate with customers, HVACR industry partners 
and competitors as well as experts from other industries who can bring new 
perspectives to specific challenges.  Our new line of compressors 
and controls support use  
of refrigerants   
50% lower  
IN GLOBAL WARMING POTENTIALStewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  Community
$35 million  
EMERSON INVESTMENT IN THE  
HELIX INNOVATION CENTER AT  
UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON TO  
ADVANCE HVACR RESEARCHCorporate Social Responsibility Report7
HELPING UTILITIES INTEGRATE RENEWABLE AND  
TRADITIONAL ENERGY SOURCES  
Wind and solar energy sources are renewable and environmentally friendly, but 
they’re also variable, meaning they don’t always generate the steady supply of 
power required for homes and businesses. To address that challenge, utilities 
must balance the use of renewable and traditional resources at all times. 
Emerson is helping to ensure the steady supply of electricity by providing 
automation technologies that enable utilities to reliably and efficiently generate 
power. Power companies have reported millions of dollars in savings through 
use of these predictive systems that identify potential problems before they 
have any effect on delivering electricity while also helping them operate as 
efficiently as possible.
GRINDING TO TURN FOOD WASTE INTO RENEWABLE ENERGY  
Food waste disposal is a substantial societal challenge today, representing the 
single largest source of landfill waste and a significant producer of greenhouse 
gases.  But with household garbage disposers and upgraded technology 
at waste water treatment plants, food waste can be recycled into energy.  
After a two-year-plus pilot program between the City of Philadelphia and 
Emerson’s InSinkErator, the city saw a 34 percent reduction in food waste in 
participating households.  Philadelphia now requires food waste disposers in 
all new residential construction, while Emerson has expanded efforts to help supermarkets, restaurants and others in the food service industry to adopt similar recycling efforts through its Grind2Energy initiative.
IMPROVING PLANT OPERATIONS TO DELIVER CLEANER  
COAL-FIRED POWER  
Longview Power’s 700-megawatt coal power plant in Maidsville, West 
Virginia, was beset with frequent outages and poor performance.  Emerson 
contributed to a massive turnaround at the plant by providing automation 
technologies and services to help deliver enough reliable, affordable 
electricity to power more than 500,000 homes. These improvements not  
only dramatically improved plant performance and production, but also 
turned the facility into one of the cleanest, most efficient coal-fired plants  
in the United States.  Today the plant produces 15 percent fewer carbon  
dioxide emissions than the average U.S. coal-fired power plant.Our automation technologies 
and services enable Longview 
Power’s new Maidsville, WV 
power plant to emit  
15% fewer  
CO2 EMISSIONS THAN AVERAGE US 
COAL-FIRED POWER PLANTSStewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  Community
GRIND2ENERGY
Emerson is helping restaurants and  
others in the food service industry to 
adopt similar recycling effortsCorporate Social Responsibility Report8
SERVING UP FRESH FOOD WITH A SIDE OF ENERGY SAVINGS  
Refrigeration is a major expense for most restaurants, but performance 
is critical to maintaining quality ingredients.  When a North American 
restaurant chain sought to improve efficiency and reliability of its walk-in 
coolers, a field test of Emerson’s Copeland Scroll® compressors accounted 
for approximately 35 percent annual energy savings when compared to its 
legacy technology units.  At the same time, built-in diagnostic equipment 
allowed for faster identification of potential concerns and maintenance  
needs, helping the chain to avoid potential outages.
Environmental Principles for 
Emerson’s Operations
Each of our approximately 205 manufacturing facilities around the world 
follows a set of principles that guides our commitment to environmental 
stewardship in everything that we do.  
Highlights of these principles include:
01. We comply with all applicable laws and regulations, but also seek to 
reduce and, where possible, eliminate hazardous waste through source 
reduction and recycling.  
02. We continually work to minimize environmental impact through safe 
technologies, facility design and operating procedures.
03. We conserve energy and work to improve the efficiency of the products 
we manufacture and of our own operations.
04. We conduct regular training to ensure knowledge of updated laws and 
regulations, pollution-prevention and waste-minimization practices,  
and technological developments.
05. We periodically audit our operations to confirm compliance with  
these principles.
Emerson’s business unit presidents are responsible for implementing 
these principles, with support from our Corporate Environmental 
Affairs Department.  Our General Counsel is responsible for overseeing 
implementation of the Company’s environmental principles and policy,  
and periodically reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.A NORTH AMERICAN  
RESTAURANT CHAIN ACHIEVED 
35%
ANNUAL REFRIGERATION ENERGY 
SAVINGS USING OUR COPELAND 
SCROLL COMPRESSORSStewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  Community
Corporate Social Responsibility Report9
1. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE   
We assess the environmental compliance of Emerson facilities annually in 
most cases, with 93 percent of manufacturing facilities assessed in 2015. In 
this process, we analyze the procedures and performance of our facilities 
against standards set by local or U.S. law – whichever sets a higher standard. 
Furthermore, when acquiring companies, we assess their environmental 
policies and procedures to correct any issues or shortcomings.
Emerson also considers the environmental aspects of how we design, 
engineer and manufacture products, ensuring that materials and processes 
are safe and adhere to industry standards and government regulations such 
as WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment regulation) and RoHS 
(Restriction of Hazardous Substances) directives.
2. MINIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT THROUGH  
FACILITY DESIGN AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
Emerson designs and builds many of its new facilities following Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design, or LEED, certified standards, incorporating 
sustainable design principles, technologies, and best practices. It is another 
way Emerson uses innovative approaches to reduce the impact of its 
operations on environmental resources. 
Beyond these important certifications, other Emerson facilities are making 
meaningful strides to reduce environmental impact.  Emerson’s Alliance 
Compressors business is finding new ways to recycle cardboard and plastic at 
its Natchitoches, Louisiana (USA) plant, using color-coded carts and hoppers 
to collect recyclables. In its first three months, the recycling program kept 
more than 23 tons of trash from taking up space at local landfills, including 
about 20 tons of cardboard and three tons of plastic.  
Emerson’s Appleton facility in Elmira, Ontario, has integrated recycling 
activities across its operations, from the plant floor to the lunch room.   
Wire, electronic waste, and various metals from the manufacturing process 
are turned over to a local recycler, and meal areas have discontinued 
offering paper plates and plastic ware. LEED Certified 
Helix Center  
Dayton, Ohio (USA)
Emerson India HQ 
Gurgaon (INDIA)
LEED Silver 
Emerson Climate Technologies 
Scroll Machining  
AVA, MISSOURI (USA) 
Emerson Process  
Management Campus  
SOROCABA (BRAZIL)
Emerson Latin American HQ 
SUNRISE, FLORIDA (USA)
Emerson Network  
Power Training Center 
WESTERVILLE, OH (USA)
 
 
LEED Gold
Corporate Data Center 
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI (USA)
Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  Community
Emerson facilities with  
green building certifications 
(using less water and  
energy and reducing  
greenhouse gas emissions)Corporate Social Responsibility Report10
Emerson also has recycled over 400,000 pounds of batteries from facilities 
across the U.S. and Canada through Call2Recycle since joining the battery 
recycling initiative in 1996.  For the second straight year, Emerson was 
honored in 2016 for its dedication to environmental stewardship with 
Call2Recycle’s 2015 “Leader in Sustainability” award. The award recognizes 
organizations that demonstrate the strongest commitment to sustainability 
through their consistent participation in Call2Recycle’s signature battery 
recycling program.
3. ENERGY CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY  
Emerson has continually implemented energy reduction measures at its 
facilities, conducted energy audits and sought out new opportunities to 
reduce the impact of its operations on the environment.  
One recent example is Emerson’s Marine Tank Management business in 
Denmark, which engaged the consulting services of a local power provider  
to review its operations for energy-saving opportunities. As a result of  
that audit and changes implemented at its facilities, this Emerson business 
achieved a total energy savings of more than 560,000 kWh/year and  
$61,000 in cost savings.
In China, our Jinqiao plant has focused on multiple energy-saving projects 
since 2010, upgrading air conditioning and ventilation and implementing 
programs to adjust lighting and temperature of the facility to better match 
production needs at given times of the day.  These efforts resulted in energy 
savings of 556,000 kWh/year.  Additionally, our Wuqing plant in China 
realized savings of 96,000 kWh/year through an upgrade to more efficient 
lighting throughout the facility.
4. REGULAR ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING
Emerson conducts annual environmental training programs for its plant 
environmental managers, division environmental coordinators and other key 
personnel worldwide.  Each session takes into account the specific needs of 
the regions in which our global facilities are located.
Each year, employees receive online or face-to-face environmental training  
with two primary goals:
 > Give employees a practical understanding of the requirements of 
environmental laws and regulations as they apply to the company.
 >Share ideas on how to reduce the generation of waste, enhance the 
quality of the environment, and conserve energy.
The training conferences cover a broad range of topics, including:
 > Emerson’s environmental principles.
 > Good environmental management practices.
 > Country-specific environmental laws and regulations.560,000 kWh/year 
ENERGY SAVINGS ACHIEVED  
AT EMERSON’S MARINE  
TANK MANAGEMENT  
FACILITIES IN DENMARK
400,000 lbs
AMOUNT OF BATTERIES 
RECYCLED AT EMERSON 
FACILITIES IN U.S. AND 
CANADA SINCE 1996Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report11
 > New developments in environmental laws (by country).
 > Pollution prevention, waste minimization and energy conservation. 
 >Specialty topics like hazardous material transportation, spills and incident 
response, and recycling technologies.
5. AUDITS TO CONFIRM COMPLIANCE  
Emerson requires that every one of its manufacturing facilities receives a  
third-party environmental compliance audit every five years, in which the 
auditors conduct detailed inspections of the facility and its environmental 
records. The purpose of these audits is to evaluate environmental regulatory 
compliance, as well as the overall environmental management practices 
of each plant.  The audit process also encourages plant environmental 
managers to look beyond basic compliance to explore ways to implement 
innovative and productive environmental management practices.
Prior to an on-site inspection by the environmental consulting firm, each  
plant is required to complete a detailed questionnaire provided by the 
Corporate Environmental Affairs Department.  Once the formal audit is 
completed and the outside auditor submits a written report, Environmental 
Affairs works with the business unit president and facility personnel to 
ensure that all audit findings are addressed. About 10 percent of Emerson’s 
audits are surprise audits, where facility managers receive only 48 hours’ 
notice of the third-party audit team’s schedule. In non-audit years, business 
unit environmental coordinators work with plant management to complete 
a checklist to ensure compliance with environmental regulations. Corporate 
environmental staff oversees this annual process.
FINES AND SANCTIONS  
Emerson facilities are routinely inspected by environmental authorities in the 
jurisdictions where we operate.  It is Emerson policy to cooperate fully with 
environmental authorities.  The majority of all inspections by authorities  
do not result in monetary fines or penalties.  When environmental fines or 
penalties have been imposed, the costs have been minimal in comparison 
to the size of our operations.  For example, in 2015 environmental regulators 
inspected our facilities or were notified of incidents on 44 different 
occasions worldwide.  Of these occasions, only five resulted in monetary 
penalties totaling $13,486.  The average annual cost of environmental fines 
and penalties incurred globally by Emerson from 2005 through 2015 was 
approximately $34,000.  
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS  
In addition to Emerson’s global Ethics and Compliance Hotline , each  
of our business units has its own formal and informal channels to raise  
concerns or complaints about environmental compliance. We also  
periodically receive concerns regarding environmental issues from the  
people and businesses neighboring our facilities.  Issues raised via these 
channels are rare and are appropriately addressed.
Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report12
Greenhouse Gas,  
Water and Energy Use
Emerson tracks its impact on the environment in a number of ways, including 
measuring emissions into the atmosphere, water consumption and energy use associated with our manufacturing operations. Emerson has voluntarily participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2006. 
2015  CY Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
All GHG emissions measured in tons of carbon dioxide equivalent - CO2e
Scope 1
All direct GHG emissions, which are from the combustion of fossil fuels [e.g. natural gas, fuel oil,  
propane, etc.] for comfort heating or other industrial applications.
BY BUSINESS UNIT
Commercial & Residential Solutions 
17, 501 MT CO2e emissions
Climate Technologies  
59,087 MT CO2e emissions
Industrial Automation  
44,412 MT CO2e emissionsNetwork Power  
22,854 MT CO2e emissions
Process Management  
25,967 MT CO2e emissions
Other  
3,795 MT CO2e emissions
TOTAL  170,617 MT CO2e emissions
SCOPE 1 OVER TIME (BY CALENDAR YEAR)2011 CDP Report  
281,920   MT CO2e emissions
2012 CDP Report  
264,967   MT CO2e emissions
2013 CDP Report  
199,756  MT CO2e emissions2014 CDP Report  
208,952   MT CO2e emissions
2015 CDP Report 
170,617  MT CO2e emissionsStewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report13
Scope 2
All indirect GHG emissions, which are from the consumption of purchased electricity,  
steam or other sources of energy [e.g. chilled water] generated upstream from Emerson facilities.
BY BUSINESS UNIT
Commercial & Residential  
77,085.8 MT CO2e emissions
Climate Technologies  
209,935.9 MT CO2e emissions
Industrial Automation  
86,748.5 MT CO2e emissionsNetwork Power   
62,930.2 MT CO2e emissions
Process Management 
126,205.7 MT CO2e emissions
Other  
20,444.0 MT CO2e emissions
TOTAL   583,350. 1 MT CO2e emissions
SCOPE 2 OVER TIME
2014 CDP report 
724,189   MT CO2e emissions
2015 CDP report  
761,996 MT CO2e emissions 2016 CDP report  
583,350 MT CO2e emissions 
 
2015  CY Water Consumption  
Emerson’s worldwide water usage 
2015  CY Energy Use2014  
1,402,947,620 gallons2015  
1,189,500,885 gallons G
2014  
1,431.38 megawatt-hours  2015   
1 ,200.05 megawatt-hours15%  
REDUCTION
16%  
REDUCTIONVS =VS =
In addition to programs like those highlighted in this report, reductions in emissions, water and 
energy use in 2015 can also be attributed to the sale of power transmission businesses that year.Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report14
Integrity & Ethics
Our leadership team is required to communicate and reinforce our 
commitment to compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, 
proper handling of proprietary data and information and accurate financial 
reporting.   Employees are urged to communicate questions or concerns 
about compliance in whatever way they feel comfortable, including our 
global whistleblowing system operated by an independent third party. 
The Emerson Board of Directors, in conjunction with a senior management 
committee, oversees the program and bears final responsibility for its success.  
Senior management and the Board of Directors regularly review and update 
the program to consider if updates are necessary or appropriate. 
Policies and documents that support Emerson’s Business Ethics Program include:
CEO AND SENIOR FINANCIAL OFFICER CODE OF ETHICS 
The Emerson Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers Code of Ethics  
conveys the roles, responsibilities and expectations for top corporate officers 
in exhibiting and promoting integrity and in providing accurate and timely 
financial reporting.
ETHICS PROGRAM HANDBOOK FOR ALL EMPLOYEES 
Emerson’s Business Ethics Program Handbook sets forth the detailed 
elements of our ethics program. The handbook along with our annual  
all-employee ethics and compliance training cover many topics including:
Building a Culture of Integrity  
Emerson works hard to maintain a culture of ethical conduct and  
legal compliance. Our Business Ethics Program is a set of policies and  
practices honed over the past two decades that define ethical conduct  
for every Emerson employee in interactions with each other,  
customers, communities and other stakeholders.Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report15
 >The company’s commitment to conducting business with honesty, 
integrity and in compliance with laws and regulations.
 > Our standards for all dealings with customers, suppliers, governments, 
the public, and each other.
 >A stipulation that no employee may have a personal, business or financial 
interest that conflicts with his or her responsibilities to our company.
 >The rules forbidding payments in money, products, gifts or services – 
either directly or indirectly – to any foreign government representative to 
induce favorable business treatment or to affect governmental decisions 
in violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) or other  
U.S. or local country laws.
 >The importance of being alert and sensitive to situations that may  
be illegal, unethical, in violation of the ethics program, or that are 
otherwise improper. 
 >The obligation of employees to report any questionable situations or 
suspicious activity.
To reinforce the critical importance of these requirements and deal with 
evolving challenges and interpretations, all employees undergo annual 
training on Emerson’s ethics requirements. 
ANNUAL ETHICS TRAINING  
We reinforce our Ethics and Compliance Program with annual all-employee 
training to ensure that every employee is aware of and following the 
requirements of the program. This commitment to training also helps to 
ensure that every employee is aware of the latest important updates for  
our governance principles and practices.
These annual training sessions are generally done face-to-face with 
various levels of management conducting the training, which encourages 
dialogue that helps Emerson leaders to identify and address emerging 
questions or issues. Most importantly, we use the interaction to ensure 
that every employee understands how to report any ethical concern 
without apprehension or fear of retaliation. We conduct surveys to measure 
employees’ understanding of the program. These surveys show a high level of understanding of our Ethics and Compliance Program by our employees 
throughout the world.
ETHICS HOTLINE AND COMMUNICATION  
To facilitate the communication of ethical concerns or questions, we provide 
email and phone access to an Ethics and Compliance Hotline for our employees globally. Reports to the hotline may be filed anonymously, and  
we tolerate no form of reprisal against employees for reporting concerns. 
Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report16
Ethics Hotline emails or calls are received by an independent company, which 
reports the information to a limited number of experienced and specialized 
Emerson management personnel for investigation and response. The program 
is audited by internal and external auditors each year and is revised regularly to 
improve the program. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors directly 
receives hotline reports from the independent hotline provider, reviews ethics 
and compliance allegations, and receives a report on the resolution of any 
such allegations from management when the allegations relate to accounting, 
internal accounting controls and auditing.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST EVALUATION AND REPORTING  
Emerson conducts an annual reporting process to determine whether any 
potential conflicts of interest exist between the company and any of its 
Directors, officers or employees. Each year, a questionnaire is administered 
to all exempt/salaried employees and any other employee deemed to be 
in a position to influence and/or receive personal gain at the company’s 
expense. The questionnaires are available in 21 languages.  Any variant 
responses received are investigated and resolved. All newly reported variant 
responses for the campaign year are reported to the Ethics Committee. The 
Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee provides oversight for 
Emerson’s conflict of interest policies and receives a report annually on  
the results of the Conflict of Interest Evaluation process.
ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING  
Emerson articulates its anti-corruption internal control requirements in 
an Internal Control Questionnaire (“ICQ”). All business units are required 
to complete the ICQ and to certify on a quarterly basis that their ICQ is 
accurate and that the business unit has implemented the required internal 
controls. Emerson audits approximately 50 locations per year to ensure 
appropriate anti-corruption internal controls are in place. Emerson utilizes 
a risk assessment model to identify audit targets and all locations that 
operate in high-risk countries and industries are audited at least once every 
three years.  Emerson also operates an anonymous hotline that employees  
can use to escalate potential corruption issues, and all hotline allegations  
are thoroughly investigated.
Emerson includes anti-corruption information in its annual ethics training, 
which is received by all employees worldwide. The training is modified  
each year in response to risks identified during the previous year’s audits.  
Emerson also requires all employees with contact with customers, 
government officials, third party intermediaries and suppliers to complete  
an online anti-corruption training program once every three years.  
Additional face-to-face and webcast training also is available. 
Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report17
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS  
Emerson participates in the political process through our federal and  
Missouri political action committees and direct company contributions. 
Emerson and the Emerson political action committees (PAC) are  
non-partisan. Contributions are made to political candidates and  
causes to support pro-manufacturing, pro-business and pro-economic  
growth policies. Both the company and the PAC boards base their 
contribution decisions on what they believe to be sound public policy  
and in the best interests of the company.
The Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee 
oversees policies and practices related to the company’s political spending.  
The committee approves an annual contribution limit on expenditures to 
support state and local political candidates, as well as those for campaigns, 
ballot issues and bonds. The annual contribution limit is $1,000,000.
U.S. law prohibits companies from contributing to candidates for federal  
office, but many states allow corporate contributions to state and local candidates, political organizations and ballot issues. For fiscal 2015,  
Emerson contributed a total of $49,100 to state and local political  
candidates, and federal, state and local campaigns and ballot issues  
and bonds. The recipients and amounts of those contributions are  
detailed in our Political Contributions Report.
Emerson has established two PACs: a federal PAC called the Emerson PAC  
and a state PAC called the Emerson Missouri Responsible Government Fund. 
The state and federal PACs are separate and nonpartisan. The federal PAC  
is a voluntary fund supported by contributions from Emerson employees 
and retirees who elect to participate in the political process by pooling 
their resources to support candidates who share the values and goals of the company. This fund supports federal candidates and other candidates 
where permitted by law. The Missouri fund is supported by company 
contributions to support candidates in Missouri. Both of these PACs may 
make contributions to party organizations where permitted in accordance 
with law and their bylaws.
Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report18
Details of contributions to and disbursements from the federal PAC  
fund are available at the U.S. Federal Election Commission’s website  
(www.fec.gov), by searching for Emerson PAC (or its prior name,  
Emerson Responsible Government Fund) at the site’s Campaign  
Finance Disclosure Portal Link
In fiscal 2015, Emerson contributed $39,100 to the Emerson Missouri 
Responsible Government Fund. A list of contributions by this fund is 
available on the Missouri Ethics Commission website at www.mec.mo.gov
Further information about Emerson’s policies and procedures for political 
spending can be found on the Political Contributions page of the  
Emerson website. 
TRADE ASSOCIATIONS AND LOBBYING  
As a large and diverse global company, Emerson is a member of many trade 
associations and coalitions where we work with our industry partners on 
a range of issues and activities that represent the Company’s interests. 
These organizations operate independently. For many organizations and 
coalitions, we pay dues or make contributions which are not necessarily 
related to lobbying efforts or political goals. In some cases, however, these 
organizations do engage in advocacy at the federal, state and/or local levels. 
While we may generally agree with positions taken by these associations, 
Emerson’s membership in any particular trade association does not indicate  
its agreement with all of the association’s views. 
Emerson does engage with public officials at all levels of government 
directly through our employees and through third party advocacy 
organizations. These engagements educate officials on our company’s operations, emerging technologies and markets, as well as on our views 
concerning public policy matters. Emerson lobbying activity is reported  
in our Lobbying Disclosure Act filings, which are publicly available at  
http://disclosures.house.gov and are also posted to the Trade Associations  
and Lobbying page of the Emerson website.Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report19
Corporate  
Governance
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
Emerson’s Board of Directors is elected by stockholders to provide oversight 
and strategic guidance to senior management. The core responsibility of 
the Board is to exercise its fiduciary duty to act diligently and in the best 
interests of all the Company’s stockholders, not to any special constituency 
of stockholders, and other corporate constituencies. The Board selects 
and oversees the members of senior management, to whom the Board 
delegates the authority and responsibility for the conduct of the day-to-day 
operations of the business. The Board of Directors provides guidance and 
oversight regarding the management of the Company and is responsible for establishing all significant Company policies, overseeing compliance with 
those policies and approving all significant Company transactions.     
BOARD OF DIRECTORS POLICIES  
Emerson’s principles and practices are driven by its Board of Directors,  
which ensures that they are shaped by highly independent, diverse 
viewpoints and deep management expertise. Our Board’s composition  
and operation is guided by Emerson’s Corporate Governance Principles  
and Practices, which include the following guidelines:
 > Independence.   The majority of Board members must remain 
independent, and this independence is confirmed at least annually. 
Emerson’s Board currently includes nine independent members and just 
one inside Director, Emerson’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
David N. Farr. Our Director Independence Standards are contained in 
Annex II to our Corporate Governance Principles and Practices.  
 > Composition.  Board members must bring senior management business 
experience or experience in government or other relevant organizations. 
Our Board provides a diversity of viewpoints that help us to understand 
and anticipate changes in our business environment.Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report20Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  Community
 > Committees.  We have five Board committees:  Audit, Compensation, 
Corporate Governance and Nominating, Executive and Finance. All 
committees except for the Executive Committee are comprised entirely  
of independent Board members.
 > Leadership.  Our Board chairman is CEO David N. Farr.  The Board also has a 
Lead Independent Director who serves for a three-year term and serves as 
the key liaison between the Chairman and the rest of the Board.  The duties 
of the Lead Independent Director include presiding at Board meetings at 
which the Chairman is absent, including executive sessions of independent 
or non-management Directors, reviewing and consulting with the 
Chairman regarding meeting agendas and schedules and information to 
be sent to the Board, calling meetings of independent or non-management 
Directors, consulting with major shareholders and serving on the executive 
committee.  The Company publishes in its annual proxy statement the 
manner in which shareholders can communicate with any Director, 
including the Lead Independent Director.
 > Non-Management Director Meetings.  The Company’s non-management 
Directors periodically schedule and hold executive sessions in which 
management does not participate. The Lead Independent Director and 
the other non-management Directors determine the length, topics of 
discussion and procedures for these meetings.   If, in any year, one or more 
of the non-management Directors is not independent, the independent, 
non-management Directors shall hold at least one executive session in 
which only such independent, non-management Directors participate.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES   
Emerson’s Board of Directors establishes guidelines for ethical conduct  
via its Statement of Governance Principles and Practices.  This statement 
outlines how Emerson must govern for full compliance with the law and in 
the best interests of our constituencies. It includes comprehensive rules and 
criteria for Board roles and responsibilities, from management oversight  
and performance reporting to director independence standards. Refer  
to our Statement of Corporate Governance Principles and Practices for  
further information. 
BOARD COMMITTEES  
To provide sustained, specialized and in-depth oversight in certain areas, 
Emerson’s Board of Directors has established five committees: Audit, 
Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Executive and 
Finance.  More information about our Board Committees and their charters  
is available in the Corporate Governance section of Emerson.com.  Corporate Social Responsibility Report21
RISK MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT  
The Board as a whole has responsibility for the oversight of Emerson’s risk 
management process. This process is designed to provide to the Board timely 
visibility into the identification, assessment and management of critical risks. 
The Audit Committee assists the Board by annually reviewing and discussing 
with management this process and its functionality.  The areas of critical risk 
include strategic, operational, compliance, environmental and financial.  The 
formal, annual risk assessment process includes surveys of all business unit 
Presidents and interviews with all business leaders, corporate functional 
leaders and members of the Office of the Chief Executive.  For each risk, the 
magnitude and probability of the risk occurring are determined.  In addition, 
the employee responsible for mitigating the risk and the mitigation plan and 
timeline are documented.
The full Board, or the appropriate Committee, receives this risk assessment 
information annually to enable it to understand and monitor the Emerson’s 
risk management process. Information brought to the attention of the 
Committees is shared with the full Board as appropriate.  Ongoing risk 
assessments in various areas are also conducted as part of Emerson’s normal 
management process and the results of those assessments are shared with  
the Board or relevant Committee as needed throughout the year
For fiscal 2015, the Compensation Committee reviewed management’s 
process for assessing risk in the company’s compensation programs for its 
employees, including the company’s executive compensation program 
and practices. The Committee also reviewed management’s longstanding 
internal process and controls for compensation programs for employees who 
do not participate in the executive compensation program. Based on the 
results of these reviews, the Committee determined that our compensation programs do not create risks that are reasonably likely to have a material 
adverse effect on our business.     
BOARD EVALUATION PROCESS  
The Board of Directors and each Committee thereof conducts an annual  
self-evaluation process to determine whether the Board and its Committees are effectively performing the responsibilities required of them.  Each 
Director completes an evaluation survey regarding the full Board and each 
Committee on which the Director serves.  This survey includes numerical 
evaluations of performance as well as an opportunity for the Directors to 
make narrative comments regarding the performance of the Board, each 
Committee and individual Directors.  The survey results are reviewed by 
the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the results 
are communicated to the full Board, with an emphasis on areas where the 
surveys indicate areas where Board practice could be modified or improved.  
The results of the Committee surveys are shared with the Chair and members 
of each Committee to be discussed at each Committee’s next regularly 
scheduled meeting.Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance   |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report22
People  
& Workplace
Our employee management process,  has always centered on open and 
honest communication.  This philosophy guides our broad efforts to create 
a global workforce that encourages diversity and embraces inclusion while 
promoting workplace safety and fair labor practices.  
We carry these core beliefs, approaches and tools with us as we continually 
look to break new ground in recruiting, diversity and safety programs, and 
we bring these programs to every country where we operate across six 
continents.  This combination of core values and program innovation helps 
Emerson to maintain its status as an employer of choice, which in turn 
maintains our long heritage of delivering excellence for customers.
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
We are dedicated to creating a global workplace that supports and promotes 
diversity, and cultivates respect for the individual. We believe that bringing 
together bright, enthusiastic, and talented people from a variety of 
backgrounds and cultures promotes the birth of new ideas that match the 
needs of our diverse global customer base
Emerson is a company of innovators.  Our ability to help customers solve their 
greatest challenges starts with the expertise, creativity, energy and enthusiasm 
that each of our employees brings to Emerson every day.
We have created a high-performance culture by understanding that it’s a  
two-way street.  Emerson expects nothing less than top performance from our 
employees, and employees expect a destination-of-choice workplace  
from Emerson.  We strive every day to keep both ends of that bargain.Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report23
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
We are committed to equal opportunity in all phases of employment. Our 
company prohibits discrimination against or harassment of any employee or 
applicant on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, age, disability, national origin, veteran status, political affiliation, 
union membership, or any other factor deemed unlawful. 
RECRUITING FOR A DIVERSE WORKFORCE  
We actively seek to increase the diversity of our workforce by hiring women 
and minorities and promoting them to our management ranks.  These efforts 
include both an ongoing focus on maintaining an inclusive workplace, as well 
as pioneering partnerships designed to identify and foster top talent.  For 
example, we recruit candidates for our MBA Leadership Program through our 
partnership with the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management, the 
nation’s largest diversity network that seeks to reduce underrepresentation 
of African Americans, Native Americans and Hispanic Americans in education 
and business by linking corporate partners with top-tier students. Emerson  
was one of the first companies to become a Consortium corporate partner  
and participation has become a cornerstone of the company’s MBA  
recruiting program.  
We are a proud corporate partner of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE), 
an organization dedicated to the advancement of women engineers. Through 
SWE, we conduct outreach and recruitment of female engineering talent for 
our company. 
In 2015 and 2016, Emerson was ranked in the “Top 50 Employers” in Woman 
Engineer magazine among the top companies in the U.S. for which women 
engineers would most like to work or whom they believe would provide a 
positive working environment.
We also offer networking and learning opportunities through groups such as 
our Women in Engineering Council; and we have an internal task force that 
meets to identify company initiatives and best practices that will support a 
diverse workforce.
We work hard to create an environment where everyone can contribute 
and succeed at every level of the company. We seek to create an employer-
of-choice environment in terms of promotions, transfers, compensation, 
benefits, career mentoring, company-sponsored training, tuition assistance, 
and social and recreational programs for our employees.
We participate in recruiting events at universities and business schools, and 
at job fairs during professional societies’ annual conferences, to help us target 
qualified candidates for both entry- and executive-level positions.As of 2015, Emerson’s  
U.S. workforce included:
27.8%  
WOMEN
23.3%  
MINORITIES
7.5%  
MILITARY   
VETERANS  
4.5%  
PEOPLE WITH  
DISABILITIES
2011 to 2015 trends in  
Emerson’s U.S. workforce:
+17.2%  
WOMEN IN  
MANAGEMENT POSITIONS
-1.9%  
WOMEN IN ALL POSITIONS
 +30.8%*  
MINORITIES IN  
MANAGEMENT POSITIONS
+19.0%*  
MINORITIES IN ALL POSITIONS: 
*Includes Asian, American Indian or Alaska 
Native, Black or African-American, Hispanic, 
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific IslanderStewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report24
Promoting Health and Safety
We strive to create and sustain a safe and healthy work environment for all of 
our employees, focusing our efforts in three critical areas:
 > Implementing global safety and health standards that are based on some 
of the strongest regulations from around the world.
 >Tracking global injury trends from first aid, medical treatment, restricted, 
and lost time injuries.
 > Conducting safety and health audits of our operations around the globe.
The safety and health of all our employees is a core value within our company. 
We expect all levels of management and employees to not only anticipate 
hazards, but also to address them and stop employees if they deem a work 
environment or task to be unsafe. All of our significant locations have a health 
and safety committee, which includes representation from members of the 
work force, to work proactively in addressing health and safety concerns.   
We conduct safety training for all operational management and require each 
significant location to have a formal safety program.   Emerson’s emphasis on 
safety and health encourages continuous improvement in all our processes, 
including the following:
 > Protective Devices – We continually engineer and apply devices that 
mitigate risk from workplace processes and equipment.
 > Ergonomics – Where processes involve repetitive tasks, we design work 
approaches to minimize the impact on our employees.
 > Preventive Maintenance – With sound maintenance routines and 
protocols, Emerson continually reviews equipment to keep it in 
top operating shape, which reduces the potential for hazards while 
maximizing productivity. 
 > Security – To assure a well-protected, safe workplace, we consistently 
manage access to our facilities following international guidelines  
and standards.
With our continuous commitment to employee safety and health, Emerson 
ensures that safety goes hand-in-hand with operating productively, which in 
turn helps Emerson to compete effectively.  Beyond this, many of Emerson’s 
products and services, including automation, monitoring and consulting 
services, are designed to help our customers increase safety within their  
own operations.
Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report25
Emerson Employee Safety:  
Global Data 2011 vs. 2015
TOTAL RECORDABLE RATE OF  
INJURIES HAVE DROPPED BY
41%  
with a 2015 rate of 0.67  
incidents per 100 employees.
 
RECORDABLE INJURIES HAVE  
DROPPED BY NEARLY  
53% 
with 681 in 2015.
 
FIRST-AID CASES HAVE  
DROPPED BY  
44%  
with 4,622 in 2015.
 
NUMBER OF LOST OR  
RESTRICTED WORKDAYS HAVE  
DROPPED BY MORE THAN  
53%  
with 416 in 2015.MEASURING SUCCESS  
We consistently measure health and safety performance to assure continuous 
improvement and high standards in every facility.  The most important 
measure is the workplace injury rate among our global workforce, where 
Emerson has seen substantial reductions in incidents between 2011 and 2015.
Our commitment to continual evaluation and improvement of our health and 
safety standards will help us to keep these numbers on a downward trend.
We conduct selective audits annually to measure compliance with safety 
standards.  Based on audit results, we work with facility management to rate 
safety compliance, and provide step-by-step plans to address any issues that are discovered.  In the vast majority of cases, audit issues are addressed  
within 90 days.
LABOR PRACTICES  
As part of our commitment to employees, we seek to uphold the highest 
standards in our labor practices, including conditions of employment and 
human rights.   We do not employ child labor and we respect our employees’ 
right to freedom of association in choosing labor organizations to represent 
them.  Many of our employees are represented by unions or works councils 
and we strive to maintain positive relationships with those representatives.
WAGES AND BENEFITS  
Our compensation practices comply with applicable wage laws and 
international standards, including those relating to minimum wages, 
overtime compensation and legally mandated benefits. In compliance with 
local laws, employees receive compensation for overtime at pay rates higher 
than regular hourly rates. The basis on which workers are paid is documented 
in a timely manner via pay stub or similar written communication.
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT  
Emerson operates with reasonable working hours to maintain a positive and 
productive work environment consistent with commonly accepted practices 
in each locale. Employees elect whether to accept employment after being 
fully apprised of the terms, conditions, practices and expectations of their 
jobs. Workers are not required to surrender government-issued identification, 
passports or work permits as a condition of employment. Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report26Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  Community
HUMAN RIGHTS  
As we work in all parts of the world, Emerson lives its commitment to 
protect and promote human rights that are essential to a healthy and vital 
commercial environment and to a broader society. This entails specific 
attention to particularly challenging issues and activities including:
 > Commitment to Humane Treatment - We do not allow or condone 
any form of harsh or inhumane treatment, including sexual harassment, 
sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal 
abuse, nor do we allow managers to threaten treatment of this nature.
 > Prohibition on Forced Labor - Our policies prohibit and we do not use 
any forced, bonded, indentured or other compulsory labor.  We also 
prohibit our suppliers from using any forced, bonded, indentured or other 
compulsory labor.
 > Prohibition of Child Labor - Our policies oppose child labor and we do 
not use child labor in any facility or business. Emerson has established 
age 18 as a standard minimum age for employment, which complies with 
or exceeds local legal requirements. We support the use of legitimate 
workplace apprenticeship programs that conform with laws and 
regulations. We also prohibit our suppliers from employing anyone  
under the local legal working age, or 14, whichever is greater.
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS  
In addition to formal and informal complaint or grievance procedures at our 
business units, concerned parties have easy access to Emerson’s global ethics 
and compliance hotline to report complaints or concerns.Corporate Social Responsibility Report27
Supply Chain
We expect our suppliers to share our values and principles.  We expect 
suppliers to stay current with technology, act with integrity and treat people 
and the environment with respect – all actions that reflect our priorities.  We 
understand that those high expectations require investments from Emerson 
as well.  Those investments strengthen our suppliers, and accelerate progress, 
capability and quality of life in the regions where they operate, including 
many developing regions of the world.  
We demand that suppliers align with our stances on social responsibility and 
ethics.  This enables us to maintain and build a supplier base that crosses 
geographies and cultures, but always stays true to Emerson’s core values.
This approach benefits Emerson, its suppliers, and the communities where 
our suppliers operate.  It allows us to move at the speed of our customers’ 
needs, while always maintaining the highest levels of quality, backed by 
unwavering integrity and responsibility.  And it ensures a strong and flexible 
supply chain that is positioned to sustain Emerson and its customer for the 
long haul.
Managing a World-Class Global  
Supply Chain, Ensuring Integrity
Emerson’s supply chain is essential to our ability to solve customer challenges 
and stay ahead of their needs.  As we’ve expanded globally and broadened our 
supply chain, we’ve focused on picking the right suppliers to help us deliver 
ideal solutions for our customers, then helping to advance their processes and 
technologies to support them in expanding operations and realizing  
 new opportunities.Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report28
Our supplier management practices include:
VENDOR PRACTICES  
To enhance our knowledge of suppliers and limit the risk of inadvertently 
supporting wrongful practices, we use internal, industry and public sources 
to alert us to improper supply chain behavior. We expect business unit supply 
chain managers to make reasonable assessments of questionable activity and 
to ensure that all practices conform to Emerson expectations.  We encourage 
our businesses to conduct periodic business reviews with large or preferred 
suppliers, which should include discussion of social issues such as safety and 
environmental compliance.
TRAINING EMERSON EMPLOYEES  
Corporate social responsibility efforts address a range of complex issues 
across differing geographies, cultures and business practices. Acting 
responsibly requires knowledge of each subject, understanding of laws  
and practices, and the ability to recognize potential deviations.
To deal with these complexities, Emerson trains managers and employees 
annually to help them engage effectively with suppliers as they communicate 
Emerson’s priorities. This training also helps improve our ability to recognize, 
report and support remediation of any compliance issues. 
AFFIRMING SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY  
We expect suppliers to abide by our ethical behavior guidelines that forbid any 
Emerson employee or family member from accepting payment from outside 
parties in connection with supplier transactions. We also prohibit suppliers 
from offering gifts that could influence Emerson-related purchasing decisions.
We strive to have all principal suppliers affirm their understanding of Emerson 
values and standards regarding ethical behavior, labor practices, human rights 
and environmental protection. We expect all suppliers to operate in a manner 
that supports Emerson’s commitment to conduct business responsibly.  Our 
form supplier agreement contains a “Standards of Conduct” clause which 
states that we expect suppliers to comply with generally accepted principles 
of social responsibility, referencing the Emerson Supplier Code of Conduct.  
Currently, almost half of Emerson’s supply chain spend is under contracts 
containing this clause.
Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report29
SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT  
This Emerson Supplier Code of Conduct embodies the broad principles 
set forth in our Corporate Citizenship Statement.  We encourage all of our 
suppliers to familiarize themselves with this statement as we expect each 
supplier to adhere to these principles.  
EMERSON CONFLICT MINERALS STATEMENT  
Emerson supports all efforts to end the human suffering and environmental 
impact that has been associated with mining in the Democratic Republic 
of Congo and adjoining countries. Emerson is committed to meeting all 
legislative and regulatory requirements that seek to eradicate this suffering. 
To this end, Emerson expects its suppliers and their suppliers to acquire 
minerals only from responsible sources.
MATERIALS USAGE  
As a broadly diversified company with a wide variety of products, we 
purchase through our supply chain a wide variety of raw materials and 
component parts.  Copper and steel are the most widely used raw materials 
across our businesses.  In fiscal 2015, our businesses used approximately 
29,000 tons of copper and 314,000 tons of steel, not including copper and 
steel contained in finished components, of which approximately 72 percent 
and 48 percent, respectively, were recycled materials. 
Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report30
Community  
Involvement 
Our corporate philanthropy is focused on:
 > Education - Fostering learning through schools and universities  
related programs
 > Health and Human Services - Promoting the health and well-being  
of residents
 >Arts and Culture - Enhancing the quality of life through support for arts 
and cultural institutions
 > Civic - Supporting infrastructure initiatives and other community needs
HELPING U.S. COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE  
Through the Emerson Charitable Trust, we provide financial assistance and 
other support to local organizations in the United States that improve and 
enrich lives, promote volunteerism, sponsor education, and provide services 
to those in need.
During fiscal year 2015, we contributed $35.7 million to charities and 
nonprofit organizations across the United States, including the company’s matching of employee contributions.Community Giving
At Emerson, we believe in supporting the communities where we operate.   
We are committed to enhancing and improving people’s lives, and to  
help in building communities around the globe that are attractive  
places to live and work.
$35.7 million
EMERSON CONTRIBUTIONS TO  
CHARITIES AND NONPROFIT  
ORGANIZATIONS ACROSS U.S.  
IN FISCAL 2015Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report31
SUPPORTING THE ST. LOUIS COMMUNITY  
As part of our commitment to the St. Louis area where our company was 
founded more than 125 years ago and where our global headquarters is 
located, we announced an initiative in September 2014 to help bring renewal 
to the Ferguson community after a time of unrest, which included protests 
and riots. The effort has since grown to a $11.8 million commitment to 
more than 30 programs focusing on early childhood education, youth 
jobs, scholarships for college, technical and trade careers, and business 
development grants and training. 
In October 2015, we announced another major St. Louis initiative, a  
$5 million contribution over the next seven years to the Missouri Historical 
Society, which operates the Missouri History Museum and Library and 
Research Center. This contribution is part of a multi-year effort by community 
leaders and Emerson to create a unique and meaningful platform to tell the 
important story of African Americans’ role in past and continued growth of 
St. Louis and the region. More than just looking to the past, the endowment is 
meant to provide a forum and format for ongoing community education and 
dialogue to drive greater understanding of the impact our diversity has on  
our future.
CHINA CHARITABLE PROGRAM  
In China, Emerson fulfills its commitment to being a good corporate citizen 
through its China Charitable Program. Launched in 2009, this national 
initiative leverages our core capabilities of engineering and infrastructure 
development, as well as our interest in education, health and humanitarian 
relief to enhance the quality of life in Chinese communities. 
Since 2009, we have been a corporate sponsor of the China Women’s 
Development Foundation’s Water Cellars for Mothers project which aims 
to help relieve the water shortage in poverty-stricken villages that have no 
direct access to clean running water. We have donated nearly $1 million to the 
Water Cellars for Mothers program and contributed many hours of volunteer 
work to help bring clean water to more than 5,000 villagers in seven different 
locations in the province. Over the years, our employees from Shenzhen, 
Shanghai, Suzhou, Shenyang, Xian, Tianjin, Beijing, Lanzhou, Kunming,  
Hong Kong, and Chengdu have volunteered their time to visit the region and  
help investigate water sources for these villages, monitored construction  
progress, and assessed effectiveness and impact of the program. These 
Emerson employees have also organized several donation events to  
benefit the villagers.
INDIA CHARITABLE PROGRAM  
In 2015, Emerson in India developed and launched a corporate citizenship 
program called “Making a Difference” that consolidates funds from our 
business units operating in India. This initiative, in accordance with Indian 
regulations, seeks to make a difference in addressing the unmet needs of 
society, communities and people. 
WATER CELLARS FOR MOTHERS  
Emerson sponsors the Water Cellars  
for Mothers project, which aims to  
help relieve the water shortage in 
poverty-stricken villages in China  
that have no direct access to clean 
running water.Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  Community
$11.8 million
EMERSON COMMITMENT TO  
30+ PROGRAMS IN ST. LOUIS  
AREA RELATED TO FERGUSON  
 FORWARD INITIATIVECorporate Social Responsibility Report32
The primary focus of our India program is promoting continuity in education 
for disadvantaged youth. We are partnering with Agastya International 
Foundation, the nonprofit educational trust in India, to bring Agastya’s 
innovative science education approach to economically disadvantaged youth, 
ages 6-18, who are attending government schools in the cities of Pune and 
Pilani. Additionally, we have partnered with SOS Children’s Villages of India, 
a nongovernment organization (NGO) that provides long-term support to 
orphan and abandoned children to grow up in a nurturing environment.
Employee Volunteerism
We encourage employees around the world to be involved in their 
communities, and many devote their time and energy to important  
causes and organizations.
ST. LOUIS EMPLOYEES GIVE BACK TO THE COMMUNITY  
TO CELEBRATE EMERSON’S 125TH  
To commemorate Emerson’s 125-year anniversary, nearly 300 employees  
at the St. Louis, Mo. headquarters campus participated in a Week of Giving 
to help the local community by either contributing donations or performing 
volunteer activities. In coordination with United Way of Greater St. Louis, 
employees volunteered their time in various intervals throughout the week 
with non-profit organizations such as Salvation Army, the International 
Institute, Almost Home, and YWCA, among others. Teams of employees  
took on projects ranging from indoor home repair and landscaping to  
sorting donations of clothes and household goods. Employees also  
gave blood, and contributed donations of coats and items for kits for  
new mothers.
PREPARING HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS  
FOR FUTURE CAREERS IN BUSINESS  
Since 2007, employees in Chanhassen, Minnesota have volunteered at 
Best Prep to provide mentorship to local high school students as part of a 
series of mentoring initiatives begun through involvement with Best Prep’s 
eMentors program. Over the years, Emerson’s employees have engaged in 
numerous activities with the students, such as conducting mock interviews, 
participating in career fairs, and sponsoring and mentoring Chaska High 
School’s team for the FIRST Robotics® Competition. Emerson Process 
Management’s Rosemount Youth Mentoring Team has grown into an  
active group of 100 Emerson employees and has mentored more than  
500 students since 2007.
SOS CHILDREN’S VILLAGES OF INDIA  
Emerson is providing financial support 
for SOS Children’s Villages of India to 
help disadvantaged youth.
WEEK OF GIVING
Employees in St. Louis participated in Week 
of Giving volunteer activities in 2015 at local 
nonprofits to commemorate Emerson’s 
125th anniversary. Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  CommunityCorporate Social Responsibility Report33
BUILDING HOMES OF HOPE  
In Costa Rica, our management and employees established the Help Others 
and Promote Excellence (HOPE) program. Emerson HOPE focuses on three 
areas of action:  health, environment, and community service. A number of 
initiatives and activities are undertaken each year.
For example, in 2014, for the second consecutive year, Emerson employees 
in Costa Rica and a group of Emerson Process Management employees from 
Calgary, Canada who traveled to Costa Rica teamed up to raise money and 
help build a home for a low-income family in the town of Lomas del Rio, Pavas. 
The employees who participated in this initiative collectively gave 100 hours 
of their time to build the home and raised nearly $12,000. A similar project 
was undertaken in Costa Rica in 2015.
Encouraging young people  
to explore STEM careers
As a technology-focused organization, we value the need to nurture 
and encourage young people fascinated by the elements of science and 
management education. In 2015, we launched our ‘ I Love STEM’ social media 
campaign with YouTube star Hank Green to inspire and empower the next 
generation of engineers by connecting science to technological advances  
and modern conveniences. 
Through our partnership with the Society of Women Engineers (SWE), we 
promote the advancement and recruitment of female engineering talent 
for our company. Additionally, we were ranked in the “Top 50 Employers” in 
Woman Engineer magazine among the top companies in the U.S. for which 
women engineers would most like to work or whom they believe would 
provide a positive working environment in 2015 and 2016. 
Emerson has embraced and supported a wide range of STEM initiatives  
for many years in the communities where it operates. A multimillion  
dollar commitment to STEM and robotics programs through 2020 has 
supported or will expand activities within organizations and schools such as Girls Scouts of Eastern Missouri; STEMpact; Harris-Stowe University; 
University of Missouri-St. Louis;  Girl Start in Austin, Texas; Air Camp in 
Dayton, Ohio; and Edina Public Schools, in Minnesota.
SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS 
Emerson employees participate in a  
recruitment event at the Society of 
Women Engineers Career Fair. 
I LOVE STEM
Emerson launched its ‘I Love STEM’  
campaign with YouTube star  
Hank Green to inspire the next  
generation of engineers. Stewardship  |  Integrity & Ethics  |  Governance  |  People & Workplace  |  Supply Chain  |  Community
Corporate Social Responsibility ReportThis report has been prepared as of September 30, 2016 and is focused 
primarily on data collected and information made public during calendar 
2015 or Emerson’s fiscal 2015.  
Any questions regarding this report should be directed to the:  
Emerson Investor Relations Department,  
8000 W. Florissant Avenue,  
St. Louis, MO 63136, 314-553-2197.
We expect to update this report annually.  However, we undertake no 
obligation to update any statements herein to reflect later developments.  
This report may contain forward-looking statements that are not strictly 
historical which involve risk and uncertainties.  These risks and uncertainties 
include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, 
protection of intellectual property, and competitive and technological 
factors, among others, as set forth in Emerson’s most recent Annual Report 
on Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.2015