2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT1
2018
CORPORATE SOCIAL  
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT2
Table of  
Contents
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
OUR VALUESCOMPANY PROFILETRANSFORMING INDUSTRIES
• Automation Solutions
• Commercial & Residential Solutions
OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
• Corporate Governance
• Integrity and Ethics
• Environmental Management at Our Facilities
• Supply Chain
INVESTING IN PEOPLE
• Employee Engagement
• Training and Development
• Workplace Safety
• Diversity and Inclusion
STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES
• Corporate Philanthropy
• STEM Education
GRI INDEXABOUT THIS REPORT3568
 
 
16
   
  
32
    
46
 
57
64EMERSON  
HEADQUARTERS
St. Louis, Missouri (USA)
3
 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGEDear Stakeholders:
Emerson’s purpose as a company is 
to bring engineering, innovation and manufacturing together to develop solutions for the world’s most important challenges. Our goal is to leave the world in a better, safer place each and every day. 
To be a successful business, we must 
focus on creating long-term value for our customers, employees and shareholders. We achieve success by developing industry-leading technology, investing in our people and facilities globally, and delivering results for our customers and shareholders. Our success is also 
measured by the positive impact we 
make on people, our communities and the world in which we live. 
In this current Corporate Social 
Responsibility report, we describe how our technologies, innovations, manufacturing and services are transforming industries by providing for a more efficient use of the world’s precious resources; helping nations move their economies forward in responsible ways; enabling Top Quartile operating performance and safety in industrial plants; helping ensure human health and comfort in homes and workplaces; protecting food quality through our cold chain solutions; advancing energy efficiency and environmental conservation; and creating sustainable infrastructure for people and communities. Emerson touches so many aspects in the world we live in, and we take it very seriously to improve the lives of people around the world.
As part of operating responsibly, we 
have always sought to minimize the environmental impact of our business operations and to use energy and natural resources wisely to reduce waste, pollution and costs. We also recognize that Emerson has a role to play in the global effort to reduce greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions and to manage energy effectively. Since 2006, we have reported our GHG emissions for our manufacturing facilities as part 
of the Carbon Disclosure Project, and we have now expanded our reporting to include all facilities we operate. During fiscal 2019, we have engaged outside environmental experts to help us evaluate the leading GHG reporting protocols, industry best practices and our current global operations to develop a long-term strategy with time-specific goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our operations. We will issue these goals and our action plan in September 2019. We realize this is a journey to be better stewards of the global environment, and our steps and actions are important.  
In an age where digital transformation 
is taking hold across the world’s manufacturing and industrial industries, Emerson is helping put a focus on the training and skills needed to be successful in today’s workforce – and the workforce of the future. With 10,000 baby boomers reaching retirement age every day, our customers’ industries – and our own company – need more skilled workers, and that is a critical priority for Emerson. 
Emerson is tackling this challenge in three 
important ways. We are working with our customers on a range of initiatives to help reskill and upskill their employees to make the most of new digital tools. Second, through our scholarships and grants with educational institutions and nonprofit organizations, we are providing opportunities for young people, and especially women and minorities, to acquire the training and advanced skills sought by industries leveraging the benefits of digital transformation and automation. Third, through our “We Love STEM” campaign, hosted events and investments, we are raising awareness among younger children and their parents of the importance of a STEM education, no matter what you do in life. 
We are investing in people to create an 
even better workplace for our employees. We continue to put a top focus on the 
Chairman’s
Message
Emerson’s goal is to leave the world in a 
better, safer place each and every day.2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT4
safety and well-being of our employees in 
the workplace. We have reduced our total recordable injury rate globally by 38% over the past five years, but need to be ever safety-conscious. For our employees, we have implemented paid parental leave in the United States and in countries where it was not already mandated. We have also improved our healthcare program and enhanced vacation and retirement programs for U.S. employees. 
In 2016, as we were going through 
our most recent business portfolio transformation, we surveyed thousands of our employees worldwide to identify the global values that bring us together, serve as our foundation, and make Emerson unique and stronger as a business. This initiative helped us better articulate the behaviors and expectations we have of our employees and our organization. In this year’s report, we highlight how we reinforce our culture through the professional and leadership development programs managed by our Emerson Learning Centers globally. We focus on making Emerson more relevant to our employees, customers and shareholders each and every day.
We are committed to increasing 
diversity in our workforce and fostering a culture in which every employee is valued and respected, ensuring we have the workforce needed to keep Emerson strong and competitive today and in the future. More than 9,000 of our employees globally have gone through unconscious bias awareness training. We view every job opening and promotion as an opportunity to ensure that qualified diverse candidates are being identified and considered. I especially want to recognize our Women in STEM employee resource group, which has grown rapidly and is playing an important role in helping our company provide a strong support network to help develop and retain women, especially in engineering and management roles. We further promote a diverse and inclusive workplace through our Blacks Reinforcing Diversity, LGBTQ + Allies and Veterans employee resource groups, and we encourage all employees to participate to support greater dialogue and understanding. 
Strengthening the communities where 
we live and work through our company’s charitable contributions and employee volunteerism is a fundamental part of our culture, and it remains strong and active thanks to all of our employees. In this report, we highlight some of the more than 1,000 organizations and initiatives Emerson and our employees are supporting in the United States, China, India and other countries where we operate. Our combined efforts with our employees and these organizations are making a positive impact on the people being served and our communities. 
I want to thank our Board of Directors, 
our management team and our employees around the world for their support. Through this report and other communications, we are pleased to share our activities and progress with our stakeholders, and we will strive to improve each and every year.
My personal regards,
David N. Farr
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
5
 OUR VALUESAt Emerson, every decision we make  
is driven by our core values:  
Integrity, Safety & Quality, 
Support Our People, Customer 
Focus, Continuous Improvement, 
Collaboration and Innovation.
OUR VALUES
Integrity
WE ARE UNCOMPROMISING in our 
honest and ethical behavior, which creates 
trusting relationships with one another, customers, suppliers and communities.
Support Our People
WE ATTRACT, DEVELOP AND RETAIN  EXCEPTIONAL PEOPLE
 in an inclusive 
work environment, where all employees can reach their greatest potential.
Continuous Improvement
WE CONSTANTLY STRIVE for 
improvement in all aspects of our business, guided by metrics, feedback and our disciplined management process.
Innovation
WE PASSIONATELY PURSUE  new 
technologies, capabilities and approaches to drive tangible value in our customers.Our Values Define 
Emerson’s Culture
These values – informed by a survey 
in 2016 in which 13,999 employees across the globe responded – shape and define 
Emerson’s culture and serve 
as the lens through which we evaluate  
key business decisions, initiatives and focus areas. 
Our values – and the incredible work 
they inspire – give meaning and purpose to our daily work as employees. They drive our efforts to focus on diversity and inclusion, engaging top talent who bring new and creative ways of thinking to our organization. They drive us to invest in new research and development capabilities as we strive toward continuous improvement and to solve our customers’ challenges. They push us to the highest levels of safety and quality, supporting solutions that keep the industry safely working toward new levels of innovation. And they compel us to act every day with integrity as we uphold the legacy of a 129-year-old organization with a critical goal: to leave the world in  
a better place than we found it.Safety & Quality
WE ARE UNWAVERING IN OUR  
COMMITMENT to the highest standards 
of safety and quality for ourselves and  
our customers.
Customer Focus
WE ACTIVELY LISTEN TO OUR  CUSTOMERS to deeply understand their 
needs and deliver the unique solutions that ensure their success.
Collaboration
WE WORK SEAMLESSLY across geographies, platforms, business units and functions to fully leverage our unmatched breadth and expertise.2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT6
Co mpa ny
P rof il e
Emerson i s a global tech nolog y and 
engineering company with a 129-year 
legacy of provi ding innovative solutions 
for customer s in indust rial, commercial 
and residenti al markets.
Recognitions 2018 Key Fac ts at a  Glance Financial 
Performance 2018 
Driving strong busi ness re sults
Crea ting v alue for shareh olders:
+25%  
62 YEARS year-over-year increase
year-over-year increaseSALE S:
$17.4B
EPS:
$3.4614%
36%Through our two business platforms – Automation Solutions and Commercial & 
Residential Solutions – we develop and deliver advanced technologies, software and services that enhance productivity, efficiency and safety for our customers.
1890Founded
Headquarters:
St. Louis, Missouri(USA)
Stock symbol:
NYSE: EMR
18Kactive patents 
held by Emerson worldwide 
in 2018 54%of destination 
sales wer e outside
the United States #178America’s largest corporations by revenue (FORTUNE 500)Ranked
 #2 FORTUNE World’s Most Admired(Industrial Machinery category)Ranked
 #15In the annual “Top 50 Readers’ Choice”survey (Woman Engineer Magazine )Ranked
 100%Corporate Equality Index (Human Rights Campaign’s Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality)Scored
More information about Emerson’s business 
and operational performance can be found at emerson.com  and in our latest Annual Report to Shareholders and Form 10-K filing with the U.S. Securities & Excha nge Co mmiss ion.     
One-year shareholder
total return
Increaseddividends  
  Emerson is a global technology, 
engineering and manufacturing 
company with a 129-year legacy of 
providing innovative solutions for 
customers in industrial, commercial 
and residential markets.CompanyProfile
Through our two business platforms – Automation Solutions and Commercial & 
Residential Solutions – we develop and deliver advanced technologies, software and services that enhance productivity, efficiency and safety for our customers.7
 COMPANY PROFILE
EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEESAutomation Solutions
Help s process, hybri d an d discret e manufacturer s achieve T o p Quartile 
performanc e by max imizing  production and opt imizing ener gy and 
opera ting co sts whi le also  protec ting perso nnel an d the environment.Commercial & Residential Solutions
Help s ensure human comfor t and hea lth, protect f ood quality 
and safety, advance ener gy efﬁciency  and create sust aina ble 
infrastruc ture.B U S I NES S 
P L AT F O R M S
SALE S:
$11.4B58KSALE S:
$6B27 .5K25.5K 80 $8.6B$EUROPE
20K 60 $2.9B$GLOBAL TOTALS
87.5K 215 $17.4B$
LATIN AMERICA
14K 25 $900M$MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA
2K 5 $1.1B$ASIA
26K 45 $3.9B$U N I TED S TA TES A ND C A N A D AEmployees
Manufacturing
LocationsSales
Industries Served Include
• Oil & Gas/Refining 
• Chemical 
• Power
• Food & Beverage 
• Metals & Mining
• Water &
    Wastewater
• Life Sciences 
• Automotive 
• ElectronicsCore Expertise
• Industrial Internet 
   of Things
• Systems & Asset
   Management
• Measurement
Instrumentation 
• Fluid Control &
   Pneumatics 
• Valves, Actuators
   & Regulators
• Welding, Assembly 
    & Cleaning 
• Electrical & Lighting 
• Industry Services &
   SolutionsKey Product Brands
• Plantweb 
• DeltaV 
• Ovation 
• Rosemount 
• Micro Motion 
• ASCO
• AVENTICS 
• Bettis
• Fisher
• Keystone 
• KTM
• Vanessa
• Branson
• AppletonIndustries Served Include
• Construction
• Commercial
   Buildings 
• Food Retail 
• Food Service 
• Transportation
• Contractor
• Homeowners Core Expertise
• Heating & Air
   Conditioning 
• Refrigeration & Cold
   Chain
• Monitoring Systems
   & Facility Controls
• Food Waste Solutions
• Home Repair &
   Maintenance
• Professional Tools for
   Mechanical, Electrical,
   Plumbing & Industrial  
   InfrastructureKey Product Brands
• Copeland 
• Greenlee
• InSinkErator 
• Klauke 
• ProAct 
• RIDGID 
• Sensi2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT8
Chairman’s 
Message
TRANSFORMING  
INDUSTRIES
Emerson’s two focused business 
platforms – Automation Solutions and 
Commercial & Residential Solutions – 
deliver innovative technology solutions 
that improve productivity and safety, 
advance energy efficiency, ensure human 
comfort and health, protect food quality, 
create sustainable infrastructure and 
reduce other environmental impacts.9
 TRANSFORMING INDUSTRIESOur wide array of products, integrated 
solutions, software and services enable process, hybrid and discrete manufacturers to maximize production, protect personnel and the environment, reduce project costs, and optimize their energy efficiency and operating costs. Our solutions help industrial manufacturers more efficiently use natural resources while helping protect worker safety and the environment. 
Customized Solutions to 
Maximize Energy, Safety  
Digital transformation is helping our 
industrial customers use the latest advanced technologies to reach Top Quartile performance, measured by enhanced safety, minimized energy usage, optimized production and improved reliability. Through its robust global consulting program, Emerson is helping customers implement  solutions that address their specific needs, optimize their operations and make the most of their – and the planet’s – resources. Through its advanced technology solutions, Emerson is working with India’s largest commercial oil company to modernize operations and emissions programs at IndianOil refineries, helping the company meet the new Bharat Stage VI (BS-VI) low-sulfur emissions standards. The BS-VI emission standards mandate a maximum sulfur content of 10 parts per million, which matches best practices set by Europe, the United States and other countries, and include limits on carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. Emerson is helping IndianOil meet its goals through our DeltaV™ distributed control systems; DeltaV safety instrumented systems and AMS asset management software; WirelessHART®-enabled instruments; wired field instruments, including pressure, temperature and flow sensors; control and isolation valves; and gas analyzers.Emerson’s Automation Solutions 
business enables the greatest use of the world’s most valuable resources, ensuring the performance and safety of industries that are the backbone of daily life.Automation
Solutions2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT10
take a predictive maintenance approach, 
addressing approaching problems such as leaks or corrosion before they arise. 
Digital twin technologies make it 
possible for process manufacturers, such as a refinery or an electricity generating plant, to test operational upgrades and adjustments without putting real-time operations at risk. By creating a virtual environment known as a “digital twin” using Plantweb, companies can test updates and changes to enhance operations and improve energy efficiency.
Emerson’s alliance with AspenTech – a 
leading supplier of asset performance software, announced in 2018 – enables Emerson to provide industrial customers with high-fidelity, digital twin simulations that can be used throughout an entire plant’s life cycle. The data from these real-time digital twins will help with training operators, optimizing production and ensuring the most efficient, sustainable operations.
Enhancing Industrial Safety 
Worker safety is paramount in industrial settings. Emerson’s new Location Awareness technology provides companies with a new way to monitor and protect employees in refineries, chemical plants, and oil and gas platforms. By leveraging our Plantweb infrastructure installed in a facility, Emerson’s Location Awareness solution gives managers a snapshot of employee locations through rechargeable, wearable tags. Used for safety mustering and man-down events, Location Awareness enables managers to quickly account for an employee’s location within the plant or facility during emergencies, when every second counts. 
Detecting Pipeline Corrosion 
and Leaks 
With nearly 2.5 million miles of pipelines 
crossing the United States alone, the integrity and safety of this network is critical. However, half of those pipelines are 50 years old or older – making the operational health of North America’s pipeline infrastructure a frequent topic Using Smart Technology to 
Improve Efficiency 
Emerson’s leading Plantweb™ digital 
ecosystem  helps industrial customers 
maximize reliability, reduce energy costs, control emissions and automate processes to optimize performance. Plantweb can quickly reveal potential equipment failures or abnormal conditions and drive insights to customers for corrective action. This approach of turning information into actionable data empowers companies to 
11
 TRANSFORMING INDUSTRIESwithin the industry. Emerson technology 
is helping monitor pipeline integrity, providing advanced leak prevention options that remotely determine corrosion and the rate of thinning of a piping wall, giving engineers real-time insights on preventive maintenance actions. At the same time, Emerson control systems can provide immediate solutions, reducing the flow rate to lower pipeline pressure and decreasing the possibility of an incident. 
Training the Workforce of  
the Future
As manufacturing evolves, there is increasing emphasis on learning new digital skills while maintaining the industry’s laser focus on safety and efficiency. Emerson, working closely with Ranken Technical College in St. Louis, Missouri (USA), recently introduced the Performance Learning Platform, a portable automation technology training solution to provide hands-on training to workers. The platform is focused on closing the workforce skills gap and reinforcing the capabilities that are needed to achieve the promise of digital transformation.  Offering Energy Expertise  
to Partners 
Energy efficiency is a critical issue in industrial plants, including refineries.  
Even seemingly small components can add up in a big way: Failing steam traps within a refinery typically result in 10%  
to 20% energy loss each year, costing  
$4 million each year in evaporated steam if undetected. That’s lost energy that has to be regenerated. Emerson’s advanced monitoring technologies quickly alert companies to these steam trap leaks before they become larger issues.  
Advancing LED Lighting Savings
The light-emitting diode (LED) is one of today’s most energy-efficient and rapidly developing lighting technologies, according to the U.S. Department of Energy. To help customers leverage this advancement, in 2018 Emerson introduced an LED version of industrial lighting fixtures that uses the same threads as incandescent bulbs – a move expected to save end users as much as 80% on energy costs. 
In addition, in 2018 Emerson offered LED 
lighting fixtures to help retrofit industrial lighting for environmental locations where flammable gases or vapors may be present, like offshore rigs, petrochemical and chemical processing plants, water treatment plants and grain elevators. These LED innovations are designed to withstand harsh surroundings and help ensure worker safety while offering convenience and cost savings for converting to energy-saving lighting  
for thousands of light fixtures in  
industrial operations. The DOE says widespread use of LED lighting has the greatest potential impact on energy savings in the United States. By 2027, widespread use of LEDs could save about 348 terawatt hours, or TWh, of electricity (compared with no LED use). This is the equivalent annual electrical output of 44 large electric power plants (1,000 megawatts each), and a total savings of more than  $30 billion at today’s electricity prices.
$30B
BY 2027,  
WIDESPREAD   
USE OF LEDs   
could save more than $30 billion at today’s electricity prices.2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT12
Commercial & Residential 
Solutions
Emerson’s Commercial & Residential 
Solutions business creates technologies that ensure human comfort and health by protecting food quality, creating sustainable infrastructure and advancing energy efficiency.
Our technologies are used in residential 
heating and cooling, commercial and industrial refrigeration, and cold chain management for the food and pharmaceutical industries. We also manufacture professional tools for tradespeople and food waste disposer appliance solutions. Emerson is engineering environmentally responsible, energy-saving solutions that help people live more comfortably around the world.
Safeguarding the World’s 
Food Supply
Food waste is a significant global 
issue. In fact, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations found that about one-third of the food produced in the world – 1.3 billion tons – is wasted every year. Emerson is providing technology solutions to help protect food across the cold chain – the network of transport trucks, warehouses and facilities used to maintain safe food temperatures and storage from farm to fork. 
As a member of the IBM Food Trust, Emerson’s partnership with other leading technology companies and retailers is enabling greater traceability, transparency and efficiency across the food ecosystem, using a blockchain-based cloud network. Emerson is providing temperature-related information on in-transit and refrigerated cargo to improve shelf-life estimates and food freshness, creating more actionable data for network members. 
Through our new GO CO
2 real-time 
trackers, Emerson is enabling companies 
to track carbon dioxide levels of perishable foods in shipping containers. This data alerts companies when their CO
2 levels are off, helping retailers ensure 
the safety of their produce and make informed decisions about their products to avoid food waste.  THE FOOD AND  
AGRICULTURE  ORGANIZATION  OF THE UNITED  NATIONS
 found  
about one-third of the food produced in the world – 1.3 billion tons – is wasted every year.1/313
 TRANSFORMING INDUSTRIESProtecting Temperature-
Sensitive Medications
Emerson’s advanced cold chain 
technologies are having an impact beyond food. The company recently partnered with HID Global to enhance monitoring capabilities that help healthcare providers monitor proper temperature for lifesaving vaccines, medications and other biospecimens. The solution combines automated alerts, audit trails, condition monitoring and location services to enhance medical-grade temperature monitoring through Internet of Things technologies. 
Pioneering Heating and 
Cooling Solutions in China 
Emerson’s new Sensi Hydro floor heating 
and air conditioning system is providing energy-efficient home comfort solutions that cut down on carbon dioxide emissions. The new system uses our industry-leading Copeland Scroll™ variable speed compressor and can save users up to 50% of costs compared with wall-mounted gas boiler heaters.Combining Customized Control 
with Lower Energy Use  
Consumers today want the best of 
both worlds: complete control of their environment without compromising energy efficiency. Emerson’s top-rated Sensi™ smart thermostats recently earned the distinguished ENERGY STAR
™ 
certification, an official endorsement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency of the products’ energy-saving and cost-efficient benefits for consumers. Sensi smart thermostats 
can save users about 23% of HVAC 
energy consumption when they  adjust the temperature settings using flexible scheduling, remote access  and geofencing.  
Advancing Energy-Efficient 
Commercial Buildings 
Businesses are expecting more out of 
their commercial buildings than ever before. Construction of zero-energy buildings – which combine efficiency 
Consumers today want the best of both worlds: 
complete control of their environment without compromising energy efficiency. 
SENSI SMART  
THERMOSTATS  
can save users about 23% of HVAC energy consumption when they adjust the temperature settings using flexible scheduling, remote access and geofencing.23%2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT14
and renewable energy to consume no 
more energy than they can produce  on-site through renewable resources – has doubled since 2012, and about  $4 billion in private sector investments in clean energy innovation have spurred further growth. Emerson is helping companies develop high-performance commercial facilities that rely on our advanced compressors and controls, 
dehumidification technologies and 
connected temperature management 
to sustainably operate while 
minimizing their footprint.
Investing in 
Development of 
Energy-Efficient 
Solutions for the 
Future 
Emerson is creating the infrastructure to support the 
development of innovative 
heating and cooling solutions 
of the future. We’re investing 
$100 million in the renovation 
and expansion of our offices, 
labs and manufacturing facilities 
in Sidney, Ohio (USA), that support 
the research and development 
of Copeland™ compressors for air 
conditioning and refrigeration systems manufactured and sold in the Americas. In China, Emerson recently opened its new and expanded Suzhou Research and Solutions Center in Suzhou, China, to support research and development 
Emerson’s new and 
expanded Suzhou Research Solutions Center in Suzhou, China.15
 TRANSFORMING INDUSTRIESof heating and cooling solutions for 
China and the Asia market. These new facilities help position Emerson to continue its industry leadership in developing energy-efficient and environmentally responsible climate controls technologies to address human comfort and food safety needs in a world impacted by climate change.
Supporting Sustainable 
Refrigeration 
As global focus shifts to sustainable 
refrigeration options, Emerson is leading the discussion and working to develop solutions that are optimized for both new efficiency standards and anticipated refrigerant regulations in the United States. 
Emerson is partnering closely with 
global industry associations, original equipment manufacturers and chemical companies to determine the best low-GWP (Global Warming Potential) refrigerant options for HVAC applications across the globe. As an industry steward, Emerson is committed to working with customers, industry partners and government leaders through the transition from current to lower-GWP refrigerants in all regions  it serves. 
Emerson is 
developing new solutions to optimize refrigeration efficiency around the globe. Turning Food Waste  
into Energy 
Emerson’s Grind2Energy solution – 
which enables businesses to turn food scraps into renewable energy – recently expanded to the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana (USA). The system is expected to reduce food waste on campus by more than 2,000 pounds per day. Using specialized InSinkErator grinders, the Grind2Energy solution turns food waste from the university’s foodservice operations into a slurry that is kept in on-site holding tanks. When the tank at Notre Dame is full, the slurry is taken to a nearby dairy farm, where it is anaerobically digested and turned back into renewable energy. 
GRIND2ENERGY  
has diverted 30.2K 
tons of food waste to date, reducing emissions equal to 50.2M miles driven by cars. 30.2K2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT16
Chairman’s 
Message
OPERATING
RESPONSIBLY
Operating our business responsibly means 
having experienced, engaged individuals on 
our Board of Directors to protect the interests 
of our shareholders, promoting a culture 
of personal integrity and ethical business 
conduct, managing our facilities to minimize 
their environmental impact and seeking to 
ensure our global suppliers share our values.17
 OPERATING RESPONSIBLYCorporate 
Governance
Board of Directors 
Members of Emerson’s Board of 
Directors are elected by shareholders to provide oversight and strategic guidance to senior management. The core responsibility of the Board is to exercise its fiduciary duty to act diligently and in the best interests of all the company’s shareholders. The Board selects and oversees the members of senior management, to whom the Board delegates the authority and responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the business. The Board of Directors provides guidance and oversight regarding the management of the company and is responsible for establishing all significant company policies, overseeing compliance with those policies and approving all significant company transactions.
Board of Directors Policies
Emerson’s principles and practices are driven by its Board of Directors, which ensures these foundational elements are shaped by highly independent, diverse Emerson is dedicated to excellence 
and a disciplined management process, which includes corporate governance practices to ensure our company operates responsibly.
viewpoints and deep management 
expertise. Our Board’s composition  and operations are guided by  Emerson’s Corporate Governance Principles and Practices, which include the following guidelines:
Independence   The majority of Board 
members must remain independent, and this independence is confirmed at least annually. At the end of 2018, Emerson’s Board included eight independent members and just one inside director, Emerson’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David N. Farr. Our Director Independence Standards are contained in Annex II to our Corporate Governance Principles and Practices.
Composition   Board members must 
bring senior management business experience or experience in government or other relevant organizations. We seek a diversity of viewpoints on our Board that helps us to understand and 
AS OF OCTOBER  
2018, three of our nine Board members  
were women.BOARD OF DIRECTORS  GENDER DIVERSITY
•  Women 
•  Men1/32018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT18
anticipate changes in our business 
environment, as well as ethnic and gender diversity. Three of our current Board members are women, with  the most recent appointment in  October 2018.
Committees   To provide sustained, 
specialized and in-depth oversight in certain areas, Emerson’s Board of Directors has five committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Executive, and Finance. All committees, except for the Executive Committee, are comprised entirely of independent Board members. More information about our Board committees and their charters is available in the Corporate Governance section of emerson.com.
Leadership   Our Board Chairman is 
CEO David N. Farr. The Board believes that its current leadership structure, with Mr. Farr serving as both Chief Executive Officer and as Chairman of the Board, as well as Chair of our Executive Committee, is appropriate given Mr. Farr’s past success and extensive experience serving in these roles, the efficiencies of having the Chief Executive Officer also serve in the role of Chairman, the company’s strong corporate governance structure, including the newly adopted Lead Independent Director position, and the company’s financial performance under Mr. Farr’s leadership.
The Board also has established a Lead 
Independent Director position who serves as the key liaison between the 
Recent Corporate Governance Actions
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee periodically reviews the company’s governance principles and practices in light of feedback from shareholders, industry trends and risks and opportunities facing the company. When the committee determines any such changes are necessary, it recommends the changes to the full Board to approve any required policy amendments. As a result of this review, the company took the following corporate governance actions: 
ADOPTED AN AMENDMENT TO THE COMPANY’S BYLAWS  
to provide shareholders with a proxy access right that, subject to 
certain limitations, permits a holder (or a group of not more than 20 holders) of at least 3% of the company’s outstanding common stock to nominate and include in the company’s proxy materials director nominees constituting up to the greater of two individuals or 20% of the Board, provided that the nominating holder(s) and the nominee(s) satisfy the requirements specified in the Bylaws.
SUBMITTED TO SHAREHOLDERS AT THE 2018 ANNUAL  
MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS A PROPOSAL to amend the company’s Articles of Incorporation to allow shareholders the right to amend the company’s Bylaws and recommend that shareholders vote in favor of the proposal. Unfortunately, the proposal did not receive the required support to pass, and the Board does not believe it will receive the required 85% approval of outstanding shares in the future.
REMOVED FORUM SELECTION BYLAW , which provided that the 
sole and exclusive forum for specified legal actions would be courts located in Missouri.  
ACCELERATED THE PUBLICATION of the company’s CSR report.
INCREASED COMMUNICATION FROM THE LEAD  
INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR through a Q&A in the Annual Report, a letter to shareholders in the Proxy Statement and increased availability of the Lead Independent Director for shareholder engagement.
ADDED A NEW MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS,
 
which, at the time of election, resulted in 33% of the Board being 
composed of women. 
IDENTIFIED KEY EXPERIENCES EACH BOARD MEMBER  
BRINGS TO THE BOARD  and highlighted such experiences in the 
Proxy Statement.19
Chairman and the rest of the Board. 
The duties of the Lead Independent Director include presiding at Board meetings at which the Chairman is absent, including executive sessions of independent or non-management directors, reviewing and consulting with the Chairman regarding meeting agendas and schedules and information to be sent to the Board, calling meetings of independent or non-management directors, consulting with shareholders and serving on the Executive Committee. The company publishes in its annual Proxy Statement the manner in which shareholders can communicate with any director, including the Lead Independent Director.
Risk Management and 
Oversight 
The Board as a whole has responsibility 
for the oversight of Emerson’s risk management process. This process is designed to provide to the Board timely visibility into the identification, reporting, assessment and management of critical risks. The Audit Committee has specific responsibility for assisting the Board in risk management, including major financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor, mitigate and control such exposures, as well as oversight of the company’s environmental activities, audits and expenditures.
To provide sustained, specialized and in-depth oversight 
in certain areas, Emerson’s Board of Directors has five committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Executive, and Finance.
OPERATING RESPONSIBLYThe Corporate Governance and 
Nominating Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in the oversight of the company’s conflict of interest policies, codes of ethics, political activities and compliance with laws and regulations, including oversight of the company’s political spending activities. 
The formal annual risk assessment 
process includes surveys of all business unit presidents and interviews with all business leaders, corporate functional leaders and members of the Office of the Chief Executive. For each risk, the magnitude and probability of the risk occurring are determined. In addition, the employee responsible for mitigating the risk and the mitigation plan and timeline are documented.
The full Board, or the appropriate 
committee, receives this risk assessment information annually to enable it to understand and monitor Emerson’s risk management process. Information brought to the attention of the committees is shared with the full Board as appropriate. Ongoing risk assessments in various areas are also conducted as part of Emerson’s normal management process, and the results of those assessments are shared with the Board or relevant committee as needed throughout the year. This could include potential issues such as ethics or human rights violations, environmental risks, etc.
Political Participation
Emerson’s shareholders, employees and customers are affected by public policies at all levels of government. To protect shareholder value, Emerson engages with public officials to educate them  on our company’s operations, emerging technologies and markets.
Further information about Emerson’s 
policies and procedures for political participation, including political spending, lobbying, details of such expenditures and links to recent  LD-2, LD-203 and Missouri Ethics Commission reports can be found on the Political Contributions and Trade Associations and Lobbying pages of the Emerson website.2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT20
Integrity and 
Ethics
Conducting ourselves with Integrity 
– one of our core values – is deeply ingrained in our Emerson DNA.
We expect the highest standards of 
honest and ethical behavior from all our employees as part of our companywide commitment to unwavering ethical conduct and legal compliance.  
To help communicate these 
expectations, Emerson’s Ethics and Compliance Program sets forth our 
policies and practices that define 
ethical conduct for every employee. In addition, our program comprehensively outlines our commitment to compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, proper handling of proprietary data and information, and accurate financial reporting. 
The Board’s Corporate Governance 
and Nominating Committee oversees the program. Emerson employees are encouraged to communicate questions or concerns however they are most comfortable, including through our global ethics hotline, which is operated by an independent third party.
Employee Code of Conduct 
Emerson’s Employee Code of Conduct handbook sets baseline standards for how we do business around the world. The latest version of our handbook  is publicly available at emerson.com/ethics. The handbook – available for all employees – has been translated into more than 20 languages for our global workforce and forms the basis for our annual ethics trainings. 
In addition, supplementary ethical 
guidelines for the responsibilities of the company’s Executive Officers and members of the Board of Directors are publicly available on our website. 
We expect the highest standards of honest and 
ethical behavior from all our employees as part of our 
companywide commitment to unwavering ethical 
conduct and legal compliance.  21
 OPERATING RESPONSIBLYCEO and Senior Financial 
Officer Code of Ethics 
The Emerson Chief Executive and 
Senior Financial Officers Code of Ethics conveys the roles, responsibilities and expectations for top corporate officers, which includes exhibiting and promoting integrity, and providing accurate and timely financial reporting. 
Annual Ethics Training
We hold annual all-employee training to ensure all employees understand Emerson’s expectations when it comes to ethical business practices and behavior, are aware of the latest updates to our governance principles and practices, and know the ways to report ethical concerns without apprehension or fear of retaliation. We also include anti-corruption information in our training and modify it each year to reflect any risks identified during the previous year’s audits.
In Emerson’s annual global employee 
engagement survey, we ask employees if they have a good understanding of our ethics program and if they know whom to contact in the event they need to discuss or report an ethics issue. Results from these surveys show a high level of awareness among employees worldwide, which indicates our Ethics and Compliance Program is making  an impact. 
Ethics Hotline and  
Reporting Process 
We provide both web and phone access to an Ethics & Compliance Hotline for our employees globally. Employees can report to the hotline anonymously and without fear of retribution. We encourage transparency and do not tolerate any form of reprisal against employees for reporting concerns.
Ethics hotline emails or calls are received 
by an independent company, which reports the information to a limited number of experienced and specialized Emerson management personnel for investigation and response. The program is audited by internal and external auditors each year and is revised regularly to improve the program. 
2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT22
The chairperson of the Audit Committee 
of the Board of Directors directly receives finance-related hotline reports from the independent hotline provider. The committee reviews serious ethics and compliance allegations and receives a report on the resolution of any such allegations. Once a year, the Board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee receives a summary of all allegations throughout the company. 
Conflict of Interest Evaluation 
and Reporting
Emerson conducts an annual reporting 
process to determine whether any potential conflicts of interest exist between the company and any of its directors, officers or employees. Each year, a questionnaire is administered to all employees who could influence and/or receive personal gain at the company’s expense. In 2018, the questionnaires were made available in 22 languages, and approximately 43,000 directors, officers and employees responded. 
All newly reported responses indicating 
a potential conflict of interest issue are reported to the Ethics Committee. All such responses are investigated and resolved. The Board of Directors Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee provides oversight for Emerson’s conflict of interest policies and receives an annual report on the results of the Conflict of Interest Evaluation process.  Anti-Corruption Controls
Emerson has the following controls in place to prevent corruption: 
Internal Control Questionnaire (ICQ) 
   
All business units are required to 
complete the ICQ and to certify on  a quarterly basis that their ICQ is  accurate and that the business unit  has implemented the required  internal controls. 
Audits
   Each year, Emerson conducts 
audits of a selection of its locations 
globally to ensure appropriate anti-corruption internal controls are in place. We use a risk assessment model to identify audit targets. All locations that operate in high-risk countries and industries are audited at least once every three years. 
Anonymous Hotline
   Our anonymous 
ethics hotline is available for employees 
to escalate potential corruption  issues. All hotline allegations are thoroughly investigated.  
Annual Ethics Training
   We include  
anti-corruption materials and  
modeling in our annual ethics training, which is performed with all Emerson employees globally. 
Online Anti-Corruption Training
   We 
require all employees in contact with 
customers, government officials, third-party intermediaries and suppliers to complete an online anti-corruption training program once every three years. From 2015 through 2018, approximately 53,000 employees received the training. 
The Board of Directors 
Corporate Governance 
and Nominating 
Committee provides 
oversight for Emerson’s 
conflict of interest policies 
and receives an annual 
report on the results of 
the Conflict of Interest 
Evaluation process.  23
 OPERATING RESPONSIBLYEnvironmental 
Management at  
Our Facilities
Each of our manufacturing facilities 
around the world is managed according 
to a global set of principles that guides 
our commitment to environmental stewardship in everything that we do.
Emerson’s business unit presidents 
are responsible for implementing these principles, with support from our Corporate Environmental Affairs department. Our general counsel is responsible for overseeing implementation of the company’s environmental principles and periodically reports performance to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Promoting Energy 
Conservation and Energy Efficiency
Emerson implements a range of energy 
conservation and energy efficiency measures at our facilities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment and to reduce costs. In 2018, these conservation and efficiency activities actions across our operations contributed to a reduction of just over 16.4 million kilowatt hours used. That’s equivalent to the average annual electricity consumption of approximately 1,500 American households.
Highlights of our principles 
include:
WE COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE  
LAWS AND REGULATIONS,  but also seek 
to reduce and, where possible, eliminate hazardous waste through source reduction and recycling. 
WE CONTINUALLY WORK TO MINIMIZE  
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT through safe 
technologies, facility design and operating procedures. 
WE CONSERVE ENERGY and work to 
improve the efficiency of the products we manufacture and of our own operations.
WE CONDUCT REGULAR TRAINING  
to ensure knowledge of updated laws and 
regulations, pollution-prevention and waste-minimization practices, and technological developments.
WE PERIODICALLY AUDIT OUR  
OPERATIONS  to confirm compliance with 
these principles and  local laws.
IN 2018, OUR  
CONSERVATION AND  EFFICIENCY ACTIVITIES  actions across our operations contributed to a reduction of just over 16.4 million kilowatt hours used. 16.4M2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT24
Here are a few examples: 
• At Emerson’s global headquarters 
in St. Louis, all corporate buildings have been converted to LED lighting, and we replaced the north campus boilers and HVAC systems with newer, more energy-efficient systems. These changes resulted in a combined annual reduction of nearly 5.7 million kilowatt hours of energy used, with annual cost savings of almost $500,000. 
• By replacing older air conditioning units with more energy-efficient systems, our Automation Solutions ASCO facility in Mexicali, Mexico, was able to cut energy costs by more than $61,000 annually and reduce electricity use by more than 663,000 kilowatt hours of energy per year. At Emerson’s Commercial & Residential Solutions facility in Atit, India, we switched to variable frequency drives for blower motors in industrial ovens. This innovation allowed Atit plant operators to adjust energy use for changes in production volume, saving more than 250,000 kilowatt hours of energy and just over $30,000 per year in electrical costs.  
• Emerson’s Automation Solutions Flow Control facility in Black Mountain, North Carolina, launched a rainwater harvesting project to supply water for steam generation, irrigation and sanitary systems. This innovative approach to water conservation saves our facility approximately 43,500 gallons per month at a cost savings of more than $10,000 annually.Designing Greener Buildings
Emerson designs and builds many of 
our new facilities following the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, or LEED, certified standards, incorporating sustainable design principles, technologies and best practices. It is another way we seek to reduce the impact of our operations on environmental resources.
In November 2018, Emerson opened a 
new headquarters and lab building for our InSinkErator business in Wisconsin, which was designed to qualify for LEED certification. In Chakan, India, we opened the first phase of a manufacturing center in March 2019 that is being designed according to the Indian Green Building Council’s standards. 
Environmental Training
Emerson regularly conducts environmental training programs for our plant environmental managers, business unit environmental coordinators and other key personnel worldwide. Each session addresses the specific needs of the regions in which our facilities are located. Each year, employees receive online or face-to-face environmental training with two primary goals: give employees a practical understanding of the environmental laws and regulations as they apply to the company; and share best practices on how to reduce waste, enhance the quality of the environment and conserve energy. 
LEED CERTIFIED
The Helix Innovation Center  
DAYTON, OHIO (USA)  
2016
LEED SILVER
Emerson Scroll  
Machining Building  
AVA, MISSOURI (USA)  
2013
ASCO Fluid Automation  
Global Headquarters  
FLORHAM PARK, NEW JERSEY (USA)  
2017Emerson Campus  
SOROCABA (BRAZIL)  
2013Emerson Latin American  
Headquarters  
SUNRISE, FLORIDA (USA)  
2009
LEED GOLD
Corporate Data Center  
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI (USA)  
2010  
Emerson India Headquarters  
GURGAON (INDIA)  
2013  The following Emerson facilities were designed to meet LEED
® 
standards for using less water and energy and reducing greenhouse gas emissions:25
 OPERATING RESPONSIBLYEnvironmental Compliance
Emerson considers the environmental 
aspects of how we design, engineer and manufacture products, ensuring that materials and processes are safe and adhere to industry standards and government regulations such as WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) and RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) directives. 
We also annually assess the 
environmental compliance of Emerson facilities. In 2018, 84% of manufacturing facilities received environmental reviews, including 64 third-party audits and 99 self-assessments. In this process, we analyze the procedures and performance of our facilities against standards set by local law or Emerson’s standards, whichever is more stringent. In addition, when acquiring companies, we assess their environmental policies and procedures to correct any issues.
Emerson requires every manufacturing 
facility to receive a third-party environmental compliance audit every five years, in which auditors conduct detailed inspections of the facility and its environmental records. The purpose of these audits is to evaluate environmental regulatory compliance, as well as the overall environmental management practices of each plant. The audit process also encourages plant environmental managers to look beyond basic compliance to explore ways to implement innovative and productive environmental management practices.Prior to an on-site inspection by an outside environmental consultant, each plant is required to complete a detailed questionnaire provided by the Corporate Environmental Affairs Department. Once the formal audit is completed and the outside auditor submits a written report, Corporate Environmental Affairs works with the business unit president and facility personnel to ensure all audit findings  are addressed.
About 10% of Emerson’s third-party 
audits are surprise audits, in which facility managers receive, in most cases, only 48 hours’ notice of the audit  
team’s visit. 
During years in which plants do not have 
a third-party compliance audit, business unit environmental coordinators work with plant management to complete a self-assessment to ensure compliance with environmental regulations. Corporate environmental staff oversee this annual process.
PERCENTAGE  
of Emerson manufacturing facilities that received environmental compliance reviews in 2018.84%2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT26
Fines and 
Sanctions
Emerson facilities are 
routinely inspected by environmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we operate. It is Emerson’s policy to cooperate fully with environmental authorities. Most inspections by authorities do not  result in monetary  fines, penalties or citations. When 
environmental fines or penalties have been imposed, the costs have been minimal in comparison with the size  of our operations.
In fiscal year 2018, environmental 
regulators inspected our facilities or were notified of incidents on 39 different occasions worldwide (compared with 24 occasions in 2017). Of these occasions in 2018, only two (compared with three in 2017) resulted in monetary penalties, which totaled $10,996. The average annual cost of environmental fines  and penalties incurred globally by Emerson from 2014 through 2018  was approximately $8,600.  
Environmental Footprint of 
our Facilities
Emerson tracks our impact on 
the environment in several ways, including measuring greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere, water consumption and energy use associated with our manufacturing operations. Emerson has voluntarily disclosed this data as a participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2006.  
We have expanded our emissions 
reporting in 2018 to include all facilities within our operational control, including non-manufacturing facilities such as warehouses, distribution centers, headquarters buildings, sales offices and engineering centers. Altogether, 212 manufacturing sites and 570 non-manufacturing sites are being reported here. Where primary activity data was not available, we have made assumptions – based on occupancy, square footage, site use and other factors – to be as thorough and transparent as possible. This approach in our data gathering and calculations explains a portion of the increase in our 2018 emissions and electricity use. Although water consumption reporting was also expanded, our usage declined due to large water conservation projects at certain locations. 
Compared with 2017, Emerson in 2018 
experienced a 25.6% increase in global C0
2e emissions, a 5.1% reduction  
in global water consumption and  a 12% increase in global energy use. We attribute increased emissions and electricity due primarily to an increased number of manufacturing sites being reported as a result of acquisitions by Emerson in 2016-2017 and our decision to include non-manufacturing sites in our reporting starting with this report.  REDUCTION  in 
Emerson’s global 
water consumption in 2018.5.1%
27
’15 1,189,500,885 ’15 1,200.05
’17 1,002,015,897 ’17 969.4’14 1,402,947,620 ’14 1,431.38
OPERATING RESPONSIBLYScope 1 Scope 2
DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS  
Includes the combustion of fossil fuels (e.g., natural gas, fuel oil, propane, etc.) for comfort heating or other industrial applications at Emerson manufacturing and non-manufacturing facilities worldwide.
All GHG emissions are measured in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO2e).INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS  Includes the consumption of purchased electricity, steam or other sources of energy (e.g., chilled water) generated upstream from Emerson manufacturing and non-manufacturing facilities worldwide.
’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
NOTES
All data is for the calendar year indicated and is 
based on the Emerson business portfolio during that year. In 2017, Emerson was reorganized into two primary business platforms – Automation Solutions and Commercial & Residential Solutions. The company’s 2018 environmental data includes 212 manufacturing facilities vs. 200 manufacturing facilities in 2017 and includes the Pentair valves and controls facilities that were acquired during 2017. During 2014, 2015 and most of 2016, the company was comprised of five business platforms: Process Management, Industrial Automation, Network Power, Climate Technologies and Commercial & Residential Solutions. 208,952
Emerson’s water usage in 
U.S. gallons, as reported by our manufacturing and non-manufacturing facilities worldwideEmerson’s electricity usage in megawatt hours, as reported by our manufacturing and non-manufacturing facilities worldwideWater Consumption Electricity Use
’16 1,061,401,521 ’16 1,218.7
’18 950,588,650 ’18 1,092.6170,617175,499
120,619146,625
’14 ’15 ’16 ’17 ’18761,996
583,644604,155
506,659569,366Setting GHG Emissions 
Reduction Targets
We recognize Emerson has a role to 
play in the global effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We are rolling out the global use of a leading environmental, health and safety (EHS) software system to track, manage and report our GHG emissions, electricity usage, water consumption and other environmental data.
During fiscal 2019, we have engaged 
a leading environmental management consultancy to work with our company in conducting an in-depth review of the leading GHG reporting protocols, industry best practices and our current global operations in order to set time-specific goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our business operations and to develop a pragmatic, long-term implementation plan to achieve our sustainability goals. We will issue these goals and our action plan in September 2019.2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT28
Supply Chain
As Emerson’s global business has evolved, 
we’ve made it a top priority to choose suppliers that share our values and principles as we work together to deliver technology solutions for our customers.
We hold our suppliers to high standards 
and expect them to align with our stances on social responsibility and ethics, to act with integrity and to treat people and the environment with respect. Emerson is committed to helping our suppliers meet these standards by investing in our information technology systems and capabilities to better track compliance and drive continuous improvement. By regularly evaluating and updating these standards, we have been able to build and maintain a global supplier network that is true to Emerson’s core values.
Our supply chain approach enables us 
to move at the speed of our customers’ needs while always maintaining the highest levels of quality, backed by unwavering integrity and responsibility. These standards ensure a strong, flexible supply chain positioned to sustain Emerson and its customers for the long haul. Our supplier management practices include:Training Emerson Employees
Managing a global supply chain entails a range of complex issues involving suppliers across diverse geographies, cultures and business practices. Acting responsibly requires knowledge of each subject, understanding of laws and practices, and the ability to recognize potential deviations. 
To navigate these complexities, 
Emerson’s annual ethics training helps managers and employees engage effectively with stakeholders as they communicate Emerson’s priorities and expectations. This training also helps improve our ability to recognize, report and support remediation of any compliance issues.
Ethical Business Conduct
To enhance our knowledge of suppliers and limit the risk of inadvertently supporting wrongful practices, we use internal, industry and public sources to alert us to improper supply chain behavior. We expect supply chain managers in our businesses to make 
NUMBER OF  
EMERSON  
SUPPLIERS  
worldwide in  
fiscal 2018.18,000+29
 OPERATING RESPONSIBLYEMERSON’S DIRECT  
MATERIAL SPEND  with suppliers worldwide in fiscal 2018.reasonable assessments of questionable 
activity and to ensure that all practices conform to Emerson expectations. We encourage our businesses to conduct periodic reviews with large or preferred suppliers, which include discussions of social issues such as safety, labor practices and environmental compliance. We continuously engage with our supply chain stakeholders to determine the most effective means of confirming compliance with  Emerson’s expectations.
We expect suppliers to abide by our 
ethical behavior guidelines, which  forbid any Emerson employee or  family member from accepting payment from outside parties in connection  with supplier transactions. We also prohibit suppliers from offering gifts that could influence Emerson-related purchasing decisions.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct was developed for compliance with important regulations, such as the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. Emerson fully supports these and all other efforts to eradicate human trafficking across the globe. View our statement on the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act of 2015.
Materials Compliance
As a broadly diversified company, we purchase a wide variety of raw materials and component parts through our supply chain around the world. We are committed to working with suppliers to actively manage and demonstrate materials compliance with pertinent governmental laws and regulations, including REACH, RoHS and similar regional and national legislation. As required by our Supplier Code of Conduct, all of our suppliers must acknowledge they follow our environmental principles in their own operations to help ensure we are sustainably sourcing materials used in our production processes.
In February 2018, we implemented an 
online system that has been adopted companywide to help ensure compliance tracking in these areas across our diverse global supply chain. View Emerson’s Materials Compliance practices. 
Conflict Minerals Statement
Emerson supports all efforts to end the human suffering and environmental impact that has been associated with mining in the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. Emerson is committed to meeting all legislative and regulatory requirements that seek to eradicate this suffering. Together with other major manufacturers, Emerson is a member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), formerly known as the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative, that is working with a range of industries to ensure responsible mineral sourcing in their supply chains and address any related issues. 
We expect suppliers 
to abide by our ethical behavior guidelines, which forbid any Emerson employee or family member from accepting payment from outside parties in connection with supplier transactions. $6.3B2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT30
We also conduct site visits of select new 
and developing suppliers as part of our qualification process.  
New Initiatives Underway
In 2018, we implemented an online contract management platform and evaluated a supplier qualification module. The new contract management system enables us to continue growing the percentage of spend under contract, which includes acknowledging our Standards of Conduct clause. The supplier qualification module also provides a mechanism for collecting environmental, social and governance information from our suppliers. 
We also launched a pilot survey of 
our top 20 suppliers to evaluate their awareness of and compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, as well as their own corporate social responsibility policies. These suppliers account for approximately 20% of our annual direct supplier spend, representing a significant volume of our partnerships that have been engaged on the Supplier Code of Conduct. We are expanding the survey in fiscal year 2019 to include nearly 300 suppliers who account for half of our annual direct supplier spend, and we look forward to gaining useful insights from this expanded survey.      Emerson expects its suppliers and their suppliers to acquire minerals only from responsible sources. Our expectations are described in more detail on our website at Emerson Conflict Minerals Statement and Form SD filing: Conflict Minerals Report for the Year Ended December 31, 2018.
Affirming Supplier 
Responsibility
We insist all suppliers operate in a 
manner that supports Emerson’s commitment to conduct business 
responsibly. Our supplier agreement 
form contains a “Standards of 
Conduct” clause, which 
states that we expect 
suppliers to comply with 
generally accepted 
principles regarding 
ethical behavior, labor 
practices, human rights and environmental 
protections, as outlined 
in the Emerson Supplier 
Code of Conduct. 
Currently, about one-third 
of the company’s supply 
chain spend is under contracts 
requiring acknowledgment of 
this clause, and we plan to build this 
percentage over time. 
We require all suppliers who want to 
participate in our e-sourcing initiatives to acknowledge their understanding and compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct before they are allowed to bid. 
We insist all suppliers 
operate in a manner 
that supports Emerson’s 
commitment to conduct 
business responsibly.
31
Emerson’s Regionalized Supply Chain*
NORTH AMERICA
• L ocally booked and built: 93%
•
 L
ocally sourced: 85%
LOCAL SUPPLIERS
EUROPE
• L ocally booked and built: 86%
•
 L
ocally sourced: 79% EMERSON FACTORIES & SALESASIA
• L ocally booked and built: 85%•
 L
ocally sourced: 89%
LOCAL CUSTOMERSNorth 
America  
for  
North 
America 
Europe 
for 
EuropeAsia 
for 
Asia
*Locally booked and built 
refers to the percentage of 
Emerson orders that are built within a region and fulfilled to customers in that same region. Locally sourced refers to the percentage of Emerson supply chain spend for manufacturing within a region that comes from suppliers within that same region.
OPERATING RESPONSIBLYRegional Sourcing
Since 2000, Emerson has made significant 
strides toward regionalizing our operations in terms of sourcing of inputs, design, manufacturing, sales and our service footprint. This regionalization strategy facilitates speed, cost savings and cash-flow generation, while supporting local customer needs and regulatory mandates in the countries in which we operate. Our strategy provides economic benefits for local suppliers and communities within these world regions, as well as helps reduce transportation costs and emissions. The data shown in the infographic is from Emerson management’s presentation at the 2019 Emerson Investor Conference in New York City (February 14, 2019).Emerson Supplier Code of 
Conduct
Emerson expects its suppliers to 
project its values and principles, to stay current with technology, and to act with integrity and treat people and the environment with respect – all actions that reflect Emerson’s priorities. In this way, we are able to employ high- caliber suppliers that demonstrate responsibility and a commitment to fairness and honesty. We encourage  all of our suppliers to familiarize themselves with this statement as we expect each supplier to adhere to these principles. View the Emerson Supplier Code of Conduct. 2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT32
Chairman’s 
Message
INVESTING
IN PEOPLE
Our most valuable asset at Emerson is 
our people. We seek to create a diverse 
culture and environment that respects 
our employees, recognizes their value 
with competitive wages and benefits, 
provides a safe and healthy workplace 
and empowers them to reach their 
greatest potential.33
 INVESTING IN PEOPLEEmployee 
Engagement
Our employees are our greatest 
resource, and we value their feedback and perspectives. A core tenet of our disciplined management process is listening and acting upon employee insights. For more than 60 years, Emerson has conducted employee opinion surveys. This practice promotes transparency and understanding and guides the management team to constantly strive for improvement at all levels. The employee survey was  
updated in 2017 to include questions about our safety culture and commitment to workplace diversity and inclusion. In 2018, we added employee engagement questions related to job satisfaction, work-life balance, teamwork and follow-through, and availability of training and support. 
In fiscal year 2018, more than 20,300 
employees were invited to complete the survey, and we received 89% participation. Employees surveyed indicated a high trust in leadership and consistently recognized a strong safety culture, positive supervision skills and ethical behavior across the organization. Employees also gave high scores to the human resources organization and management communication practices. While overall scores were good, we can continue to improve by encouraging collaboration, driving employee engagement, ensuring talent development and closely monitoring local market conditions.  
Labor Relations
We respect our employees’ right to freedom of association in choosing  
labor organizations to represent them. We strive to maintain positive relationships with the unions, works councils and employee associations  
that represent many of our employees.  
In the United States, approximately 6%  
of our workforce are unionized. Worldwide, approximately 30% of our employees are represented by an employee representative organization, such as a union, works council or employee association. We are committed to providing a 
positive, respectful work environment for our employees that offers competitive wages and benefits in the local markets where we operate.
Wages and Benefits
We seek to provide competitive wages 
and benefits in the local markets where we operate around the world. Our compensation practices comply with applicable wage laws and international standards, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime compensation and legally mandated benefits. In compliance with local laws, employees receive compensation for overtime at pay rates higher than regular hourly rates. The basis on which workers are paid is documented in a timely manner via pay stub or similar written communication. In the United States, our standard package of benefits for full-time employees includes healthcare, life insurance, disability coverage, paid parental leave and access to a retirement savings program. In other countries, our benefits packages for full-time employees varies in accordance with legal mandates, but all do include paid parental leave.2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT34
ENHANCING WAGES, BENEFITS FOR  
U.S. EMPLOYEES 
Following the enactment of the Tax 
Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 in the United States, Emerson made a number of improvements to the compensation and benefits provided to our U.S. employees. Besides market-based pay increases and enhancements to our health plans and vacation benefits, the company also made a special, one-time contribution of $1,000 to the retirement savings plans of our 24,000 U.S. employees in 2018. This contribution was in addition to the company-match contribution of approximately $50 million annually to our U.S. employees’ 401(k) plans. These benefit enhancements for employees reflect the company’s commitment to be an attractive place to work.
Equal Employment 
Opportunity
It is Emerson’s policy to recruit, hire, 
train and promote people in all job classifications without regard to sex, race, color, religion, national origin, age, marital status, political affiliation, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, disability or protected veteran status. It is our policy and our practice that this equal employment opportunity be present in all aspects of employment, including but not limited to compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, company-sponsored 
training, tuition assistance and education. Discrimination and Harassment
We are committed to providing a workplace free of any discrimination or harassment. This is reinforced in our annual ethics training that is mandatory for all employees. In addition, since 2017, we have been conducting training for our people managers on managing unconscious bias in hiring, promotion and pay decisions.
Conditions of Employment
Emerson operates with reasonable working hours to maintain a positive and productive work environment consistent with commonly accepted practices in each locale. Employees elect whether to accept employment after being fully apprised of the terms, conditions, practices and expectations of their jobs. Workers are not required to surrender government-issued identification, passports or work permits as a condition of employment.
Transition Assistance
Emerson provides outplacement services for all exempt-level U.S. employees in situations where layoffs or reductions in force are required due to business conditions, acquisitions or divestitures. In other countries, Emerson follows legal mandates.
Human Rights
In our business operations around the world, Emerson lives our commitment to respect and promote human rights, which are essential to a healthy and vital commercial environment and to Paid Parental Leave   We celebrate our employees who become new parents and are committed to aligning our benefits programs to support their needs and the realities of modern life. In 2018, we implemented paid leave for new parents across our company. These changes went into effect on May 8, 2018, in the United States and by Jan. 1, 2019, globally.  
Our new paid parental leave policy is 
determined by caregiving role (primary or secondary), rather than gender. When welcoming a new child into the home through birth or adoption, Emerson employees who identify as the primary caregiver now receive 12 consecutive weeks of paid parental leave with 100% pay upon the birth or adoption. Employees who wish to support their spouses or partners during this time as a secondary caregiver can receive two weeks of paid parental leave, which must be taken within six months of the birth or adoption. In countries where the minimum standards of applicable law exceed our new policies, Emerson will always comply with the law. Providing our employees with this bonding time as they establish their families is the right thing to do.EMERSON CONTRIBUTES   
APPROXIMATELY   
$50 MILLION annually to 
our U.S. employees’ 401(k) plans. $50M35
 INVESTING IN PEOPLEthe broader society. This entails specific 
attention to particularly challenging issues and activities, including:
Commitment to humane treatment 
    
We do not allow or condone any form of 
harsh or inhumane treatment, including sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal abuse, nor do we allow managers to threaten treatment of this nature.
Prohibition on forced labor
    Our 
policies prohibit, and we do not use 
any forced, bonded, indentured or other compulsory labor. We also prohibit our suppliers from using any forced, bonded, indentured or other compulsory labor. Our policies are in compliance with important regulations, like the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. Emerson fully supports these and other efforts to eradicate human trafficking across the globe.
Prohibition of child labor
   Our policies 
oppose child labor, and we do not use 
child labor in any facility or business. Emerson has established age 18 as a standard minimum age for employment, which complies with or exceeds local legal requirements. We support the use of legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs that conform with laws and regulations. We also prohibit our suppliers from employing anyone under the local legal working age or age 14, whichever is greater.    Grievance Reporting 
Mechanisms
In addition to formal and informal 
complaint or grievance procedures at our business units, employees or other concerned parties have easy access to Emerson’s global ethics and compliance hotline to report complaints or concerns. Ethics hotline emails or calls are received by an independent 
company, which reports the information 
to designated management personnel at Emerson’s corporate headquarters for investigation and response. This outside service does not track visitors to its website, and the person can choose to provide their name or remain anonymous, unless prohibited by country regulations. Further information is available on the emerson.com Ethics & Compliance page.
Our commitment to human rights and ethical conduct 
does not stop with our operations but also extends to our suppliers. See our Supplier Code of Conduct.2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT36
Training and  
Development
In support of living our values, 
Emerson is committed to offering focused training and targeted development opportunities for our employees.
From annual mandatory ethics training 
to our elite leadership development programs for rising managers, we strive to give our people the knowledge and resources they need to fulfill and excel in their roles. 
Professional Development  
Emerson provides its global workforce with both e-learning and in-person development opportunities. Through our online Global Learning Center platform, employees have access to thousands of e-learning modules on everything from product training and technical skills to management and leadership topics.Our learning and development staff offers a wide range of in-person development opportunities that are created internally or offered through third-party partnerships. Leadership skills workshops cover topics like motivating change, leading virtual teams and mentoring for success,  while our professional skills workshops  tackle subjects including finance  and accounting for non-financial  managers, working with global teams, problem solving and effective project management. 
Leadership Development 
Programs 
We empower our managerial 
employees to build and strengthen their leadership and professional skills throughout their careers. Through our Charles F. Knight Learning Center staff, based in St. Louis, we develop and implement programming for managers that ties all training and developmental opportunities to business objectives – ensuring our employees can immediately put what they have learned to work and 
In 2018, Emerson’s Global Learning Center program 
had 58,813 unique employee sign-ups.  
Employees logged 128,521 hours of training.37
 INVESTING IN PEOPLEthat all development activities build 
shareholder value. Our approach, which effectively differentiates Emerson from its peers and has been praised by experts on leadership development, helps our employees develop in their careers, grow their job satisfaction and, ultimately, helps the company stay competitive in the marketplace.  
FOUNDATIONAL LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT 
We provide a sequence of training 
workshops for new managers (by promotion or new hires) that help them understand our culture and develop the essential leadership, professional and business skills they need to grow and succeed at Emerson. Approximately 2,000 new managers go through the three-day Leading at Emerson workshop annually. The workshop must be successfully completed within six months of a person’s appointment to a supervisory or management role. 
ACCELERATED LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT 
Some mid-level managers – including 
those identified to have potential for higher leadership positions in the future and those identified as a potential successor in a key leadership role – are nominated and selected for two different programs, depending on their opportunity for further development:• Rising Leaders Program – Launched 
in 2018, this program trains up to 300 mid-level managers annually. Participants go through two, one-week intensive sessions spaced 12 months apart. During this program they cover the fundamental competencies required to be a successful senior leader at Emerson, including our management process, as well as leadership in the community, in safety and within a matrix organization. In 2018, the program was held in nine locations around the world, with five regional senior executives acting as the resident executive instructors at each training.  
• Executive Leadership Program –  This highly selective program provides up to 50 current and emerging leaders at the director, vice president, general manager and president levels from around the world with an intensive 36-month leadership development curriculum. Participants are nominated for the program by senior executives, and each nominee is approved by the CEO. This program consists of a series of three, one-week-long modules with group instruction –facilitated by senior Emerson leaders – spaced 18 months apart. 
Performance Reviews 
All salaried employees and their 
supervisors are expected to conduct an annual performance review focusing on performance goals, development goals and competency-based goals. Additionally, our hourly workers are expected to have annual performance reviews tailored to their job categories.
Our Learning Center 
network includes dedicated workshop training teams located in each of our world areas: North America, Latin America, Europe and Russia, Asia Pacific, and India, Middle East and Africa. In 2018, more than 200 workshops were offered.2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT38
Workplace Safety
We are committed to creating and 
maintaining a safe and healthy work environment for all of our employees.
Operating safely goes hand in hand with 
operating productively, which in turn helps Emerson to compete effectively. That is why Safety & Quality is a core value of our company. 
We expect all levels of management 
and all employees to be on the lookout for hazards and unsafe behaviors in the workplace. We emphasize that employees should stop and immediately address the issue if the work environment or carrying out of a specific task is unsafe. 
Our safety efforts are guided by our 
Corporate Safety Council, which is composed of our top human resources, operations and safety leads for our company. The council meets quarterly and sets expectations, provides governance and oversight, and tracks progress on our global safety programs that seek to drive continuous improvements, reinforce our safety culture and reduce injuries in Emerson’s operations. We have found that leadership commitment, employee engagement and preventive actions  are critical differentiators in driving safety improvements.All of our locations with 50 or more employees have a health and safety committee operating at the local level, which includes representation from members of the workforce, to work proactively in addressing health and safety concerns. We conduct safety training for all operational employees and management.
We annually recognize locations from 
each of our business platforms that have achieved outstanding results in safety performance with our Safety Leadership Awards, and we give the Chief Operating Officer Safety Award to the location with outstanding safety performance, culture and programs.
Research has shown that 90% of 
accidents are caused by unsafe behaviors. That’s why it is important for safety-minded companies to define a standard set of rules and behaviors that drive the safety culture and performance. To reduce or eliminate the risk of serious injuries associated with decisions made by employees or managers, Emerson focuses on monthly communications highlighting positive behaviors, including:
IN 2018,  
WORLDWIDE  EMERSON HAD  364 IN-HOUSE  PERSONNEL  employed as occupational safety and health professionals or designated as safety coordinators for their locations.36439
 INVESTING IN PEOPLE• Since 2017, we have been regularly 
communicating our “12 Lifesaving Behaviors” across the enterprise.
• On June 15, 2018, employees at our facilities around the world celebrated “Green for Safety Day” to raise awareness of our 12 Lifesaving Behaviors and our “I Own Safety” initiative that highlights employees’ role and responsibilities with support of the company.
• A “safety moment” reminder is included at the start of most large internal and external meetings organized by Emerson to help 
reinforce top-of-mind awareness. 
We conduct cross business and cross 
platform safety audits on a regular basis.  In addition, we also conduct selective audits annually to measure compliance with either Emerson’s or local safety standards, whichever is higher. Based on audit results, we work with facility management to rate safety compliance and provide step-by-step plans to address any issues that are discovered. Significant issues are addressed immediately, and in the vast majority of cases, audit issues are addressed within 90 days. 
Our commitment to a safe workplace 
extends to facilities acquired through acquisitions, no matter the size, and we move quickly after the transaction closes to evaluate for safety issues. In 2018, for example, our inspections of five recently acquired manufacturing facilities revealed these plants did not meet our safety standards. We stopped production at these plants for up to four days to address the deficiencies, provided safety training for managers and employees, and conducted audits to determine longer-term plant improvement needs.
Emerson’s emphasis on safety and health 
encourages continuous improvement in all our processes, including:
• Protective devices – We continually 
look for opportunities to engineer and apply protective devices or automation that can mitigate risk from workplace processes and equipment.
• Ergonomics – Where processes involve repetitive tasks, we design work approaches to minimize the impact on our employees.
• Preventive maintenance – With sound maintenance routines and protocols, Emerson continually reviews equipment to keep it in top operating shape, which reduces the potential for hazards while maximizing productivity. 
2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT40
• Security – To ensure a well-
protected, safe workplace, we consistently evaluate access into 
our facilities, following 
international 
guidelines and standards.
Health and Safety 
Performance
We measure health and safety 
performance across all our facilities to ensure continuous improvement and high standards in every facility. In fiscal 2018, Emerson implemented use of an enterprise-wide environmental health and safety software system for the first time. This software solution enables our local teams around the world to record data more easily and more quickly, and allows our company at the local, business unit and corporate levels to track and analyze the information to manage corrective actions and resources to build a workplace safety culture focused on prevention.
Our workplace injury rate steadily 
decreased from 2014 to 2017, resulting  in a 38% reduction in the Total Recordable Rate through 2018. We are closely reviewing the 2018 data to determine where we need to improve, and we are increasing our safety communication efforts to raise awareness.Emerson Global Health and Safety Performance
Note:  Emerson health and safety information 
shown above excludes discontinued operations as of fiscal 2018.TOTAL RECORDABLE RATE   
OF INJURIES’140.76
’150.62
’160.54
’170.46
’180.47
FIRST-AID CASES’142,712
’152,935
’162,463
’172,307
’182,466
RECORDABLE INJURIES’14209
’15202
’16137
’17119
’18138LOST OR RESTRICTED WORKDAY  
CASES RATE’140.45
’150.33
’160.34
’170.28
’180.28
38%
OUR WORKPLACE  
INJURY RATE STEADILY DECREASED from 2014 to 2017, resulting in a  
38% reduction in the  
Total Recordable Rate through 2018. 41
 INVESTING IN PEOPLEDiversity  
and Inclusion
Emerson is committed to fostering 
a culture in which every employee is valued and respected for their experiences and unique perspectives.
A diverse and inclusive work environment 
contributes to the rich exchange of ideas that inspires innovation, brings the best solutions to our customers, and attracts and retains top talent. This philosophy is fundamental to living our company’s 
values and our responsibility to leave 
the world in a better place.
Our diversity and inclusion 
priorities, strategies and 
policies are guided by 
our Chief Executive 
Officer and our Diversity 
Council, which was established in 2013 
and is composed of 14 
senior-level executives 
from our corporate and 
business management 
teams. Strategic planning and 
implementation is led by our Vice 
President of Diversity and Inclusion. 
David Farr, Emerson’s Chairman and CEO, has pledged his and our company’s support for the “CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion” commitment to take meaningful actions to advance diversity and inclusion within the workplace. Emerson’s approach to foster diversity and inclusion is built around three pillars:
People   We are committed to  increasing diversity in our workforce, and to attracting, hiring, developing  and promoting talent in a way that fosters an inclusive work environment and ensures diverse ideas and perspectives are leveraged to create solutions across Emerson.
Culture   We believe a workplace culture 
where all employees are accepted and respected is a competitive advantage. We are committed to creating a workplace culture where all employees feel empowered to do their best work and have the opportunity to reach their full potential.
Communities   We are active members 
of the communities and industries in which Emerson operates, and we seek to support and work with others outside our organization who share our commitment to promoting diversity and inclusiveness in the broader society. 
2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT42
Intentional Mentoring
We understand the importance of 
mentoring and know employees respond positively when an experienced or more senior colleague takes an interest in their professional development and interests. We are making a concerted effort to provide mentorship opportunities for our women and minority employees who are identified as rising leaders, including during and after such employees participate in our accelerated leadership development program.
Increasing Our Cultural 
Competence
Beginning in fiscal 2019, we are offering 
senior leaders the opportunity to use the Intercultural Development Inventory
® 
(IDI), an online assessment tool that helps build cultural understanding, shift perspectives on diversity issues and appropriately adapt behavior to cultural differences and commonalities. After leaders complete the IDI, their responses are analyzed and reports are provided back with guidance on increasing cultural self-understanding to improve their own cross-cultural goals.
Expanding Our Employee 
Resource Groups
Emerson approved the establishment 
of three new employee resource groups (ERGs) in late 2018. These are in addition to Emerson’s Women in STEM group. These voluntary, employee-led groups help promote a diverse and inclusive workplace while empowering employees to work toward a common goal. Emerson ERGs seek to further the professional development of their members, educate fellow employees and participate in community outreach activities. 
Ensuring Diversity in Our Talent Pipeline
We are urging our managers to widen the funnel of candidates we consider for salaried job openings and promotions to ensure the 
candidate pools being considered reflect diversity. In addition, we engage in targeted recruiting in the following areas: 
WOMEN Our recruitment of engineering 
degree graduates and Master of Business Administration degree recipients puts a special focus on reaching women candidates. In addition to our university-focused recruiting, Emerson is a proud supporter of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE), the leading organization dedicated to the advancement of women engineers – and we recruit women engineering talent at SWE conferences  
and job fairs.  MINORITIES  Emerson participates in 
recruiting events at universities and job fairs during professional societies’ annual conferences to identify qualified minority candidates for both entry- and executive-level positions. We are a longtime corporate supporter of the Consortium  
for Graduate Study in Management, which works with companies seeking to reduce underrepresentation of African Americans, Native Americans and Hispanic Americans in education and business. U.S. MILITARY VETERANS Emerson  
and our business units seek to provide post-military job opportunities for  
U.S. military veterans. In addition,  
we regularly participate in veterans-focused MBA recruiting events at the University of Michigan, Northwestern University, Harvard University and Washington University in St. Louis.43
 INVESTING IN PEOPLEEach ERG is empowered to establish 
its own unique mission statement.  Participation in these organizations is open to all employees who support the goals of the ERG. If an employee doesn’t find an ERG for them, they are invited to form their own around a common cause.
Conducting Unconscious Bias 
Awareness Training
Emerson continues to hold diversity 
training globally to help our people managers and other employees recognize and manage their unconscious biases. More than 5,000 Emerson managers worldwide participated in our unconscious bias training in 2018.  Since 2016, more than 9,000 employees have been through this training (as of April 2019), and there are currently  85 experienced facilitators across  the company.  
Following completion of unconscious 
bias training, people managers are encouraged to participate in diversity and inclusion committees in their business unit. These committees are being organized to help drive initiatives at the local level, including a focus on recruitment and interviewing practices to manage unconscious bias and foster an inclusive workplace.  
Additional Actions Taken  
in 2018
• Diversity and inclusion topics are 
being weaved into our leadership development programs. This demonstrates to these high performers how critical diversity is to Emerson’s future success and prepares them to be inclusive leaders in the future. • We sponsored a Women of Emerson Leadership Summit on Sept. 6, 2018, bringing more than 150 women from across the company to our St. Louis headquarters to participate in a daylong series of seminars on women, work and careers, featuring Georgetown University law professor Hillary Sale. 
• Resources and best practices related to diversity and inclusion are available to all employees through a new intranet site. Within the site, employees can read about the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion, access the sites of ERGs to learn more and join, register for the Managing Unconscious Bias Training, and find resources on diversity and inclusion such as educational articles, book recommendations, videos and more. 
Employee Resource Groups at Emerson
WOMEN IN STEM  To attract, develop and retain the best women in roles 
related to science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), to enhance diversity of ideas and approaches for the benefit of our customers and to fully deliver on our “Consider it Solved” promise.
BLACKS REINFORCING DIVERSITY  To foster a diverse and inclusive 
environment by pursuing strategic recruiting, retention and advancement initiatives that support corporate objectives. The group also enhances Emerson’s engagement with local communities by forging active partnerships with organizations that share Emerson’s values.
LGBTQ + ALLIES  To empower our LGBTQ employees and their workplace 
allies to foster a diverse and inclusive company culture and grow our commitment to innovation by promoting the recruitment, advancement and retention of diverse talent.
VETERANS GROUP  To raise awareness of the value veterans bring to an 
organization, foster inclusiveness through outreach programs, and promote talent diversity by hiring and empowering Emerson’s veterans.SINCE 2016,  
MORE THAN  9,000 EMPLOYEES  
have been through unconscious bias training (as of April 2019).9K+2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT44
• Emerson is collecting internal data 
related to workforce diversity efforts, including information on applicants, hiring and promotions to help measure progress and better 
target our efforts.
Through these concerted and targeted 
efforts, we are beginning to show progress in some of these areas. For example, the percentage of women in management positions in our U.S. workforce has increased by 26% since 2014, and the percentage of minorities in U.S. management positions has increased by 37%.  
Recognition 
We are proud of the recognition our diversity and inclusion efforts has received, most notably:
• Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality 
and 100% Corporate Equality Index rating, Human Rights Campaign, 2018 and 2019
• Top 50 Employer, Woman Engineer Magazine , 2018. Emerson was  
ranked #15
• Top 50 Employer, Workforce Diversity for Engineering & IT Professionals Magazine , 2018Women in STEM –  
2018 Accomplishments
670 local or regional events were held in 2018, more than 
double the events in 2017LOCAL CHAPTERS  
GREW 88%, from 25 in 2017 to 47  
in 2018’1725
’1847
MEMBERSHIP  INCREASED 81%,  from 1,733 in 2017 to 3,135 members worldwide in 2018’171,733
’183,13545
 INVESTING IN PEOPLEAll data is a snapshot of the Emerson business 
portfolio on the payroll period date used to file the EEO-1 report.  
This report corrects certain 2017 workforce 
composition data published in Emerson’s 2017 CSR Report that was based on data prior to our 2017 EEO-1 report being submitted and certified. Likewise, this report provides unofficial 2018 data that could be updated prior to our 2018 EEO-1 report being filed and certified.Emerson’s U.S. Workforce Diversity 2014 – 2018
U.S. Total Workforce -  
Age Groups
> 50 YEARS OLD’1643%
’1743%
’1842%
30-50 YEARS OLD’1644%
’1743%
’1843%
< 30 YEARS OLD’1613%
’1714%
’1815%U.S. Management Only - 
Composition
MEN IN MANAGEMENT  
POSITIONS’1481.0%
’1579.3%
’1678.8%
’1777.5%
’1876.1%
WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT  POSITIONS’1419.0%
’1520.7%
’1621.2%
’1722.5%
’1823.9%
MINORITIES* IN MANAGEMENT  POSITIONS’1412.4%
’1513.9%
’1614.5%
’1716.3%
’1817.0%U.S. Total Workforce - 
Composition
MEN’1472.6%
’1572.2%
’1672.1%
’1769.4%
’1869.5%
WOMEN’1427.4%
’1527.8%
’1627.9%
’1730.6%
’1830.5%
MINORITIES*’1421.6%
’1523.3%
’1623.5%
’1727.1%
’1827.4%
*Workforce representation data is based on our 
consolidated federal EEO-1 and VETS-4212 filings. 
Minorities include: Asian, American Indian or Alaska Native, black or African American, Hispanic, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and two or  
more races.2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT46
Chairman’s 
Message
STRENGTHENING
COMMUNITIES
We recognize our company and 
employees have an important role to 
play in contributing to the betterment 
of our communities and the broader 
society. Emerson is committed to 
helping the communities where 
we operate thrive through our 
corporate philanthropy and employee 
volunteerism, with a special emphasis 
on STEM education and preparing the 
workforce of the future.47
 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIESCorporate 
Philanthropy
Through our corporate philanthropy 
and employee volunteerism, we strive to support local organizations and initiatives that make a difference in our communities and help people in need.
Emerson and the Emerson Charitable 
Trust provide funding and other support to organizations in the United States, with the goal of enriching human lives, providing services directly to those in need and increasing the impact of contributed funds. Each year, Emerson aims to direct about 1% of its consolidated pretax earnings (excluding nonrecurring items) to U.S. charitable contributions. Emerson 
Emerson’s Corporate 
Philanthropy Focus Areas 
EDUCATION Developing and training 
future generations through schools, 
universities and related programs
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES  
Supporting the health and well-being  
of residents of all ages
CULTURE AND ARTS Enhancing the  
quality of life through support for  
cultural activities and arts programsCIVIC NEEDS Promoting prosperity 
of our cities and regions through infrastructure initiatives and community development•  Education: $8M (28.5%) 
•  Civic: $3.6M (13%)•  Health & Human  
     Services: $9.8M (35%)
•  Culture & Arts: $6.6M (23.5%)TOTAL EMERSON  
AND EMERSON  CHARITABLE  TRUST CASH  CONTRIBUTIONS  in 
fiscal 2018 to charities, nonprofit organizations and educational institutions across the United States.$28Mreviews requests from all qualified 
organizations, but prioritizes those from nonprofit institutions and groups in the communities where the company has facilities. Through our matching gifts program, the company matches all U.S. employee contributions, up to a combined total of $10,000 annually, for eligible educational institutions, cultural organizations and, as of 2019, youth development organizations.2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT48
During 2018, Emerson and the Emerson 
Charitable Trust made contributions totaling $28 million to more than 1,000 charities, nonprofit organizations and educational institutions across the United States, including the company’s match of employee contributions. Approximately $25.5 million of the donations were by the Emerson Charitable Trust and $2.5 million by the company. Funding was approved to support a range of requests from educational institutions and nonprofit organizations, including operating costs to establish, improve or sustain core programs, and for capital costs such as building construction, renovations or expansions.
U.S. Charitable Contributions  
Examples of organizations and initiatives in the United States that received Emerson funding in fiscal 2018:CULTURE & ARTS
The Troy Foundation (Troy, Ohio)    
Emerson is a big supporter of the arts in the communities in which we operate. The $5 million Arbogast Performing Arts Center in Troy, Ohio – located between Emerson facilities in Sidney and our Helix Innovation Center in Dayton – will provide a state-of-the-art venue for performing and visual arts and special events for local schools and residents in this area of Ohio. We have pledged $500,000 over five years (2018-2022) toward this project, which is scheduled to break ground in fall 2019. 
St. Louis cultural institutions (St. Louis, 
Missouri)   Emerson is a longtime supporter of the leading cultural institutions in its headquarters city. In 2018, Emerson contributed $4.6 million toward projects for Forest Park Forever, the Saint Louis Art Museum, Missouri History Museum, Saint Louis Zoo, Saint Louis Science Center, The Muny and the Missouri Botanical Garden. Over the past 10 years, Emerson has invested $40 million in these institutions and the revitalization of the Gateway Arch grounds to help make St. Louis a special place to enjoy and experience for residents and visitors alike. 
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
American Red Cross (Marshalltown, Iowa)   When a natural disaster strikes a community, you help your neighbors. That was the case after a tornado went directly through the business district of Marshalltown and nearby areas on July 19, *2014 includes one-time $10 million 
gift to the CityArchRiver Foundation 
(now known as Gateway Arch Park Foundation) in support of the redesign of Gateway Arch grounds in St. Louis, Missouri. Decline in charitable contribution between 2015 and 2017 is related to Emerson’s portfolio transformation and business unit divestitures.EMERSON CHARITABLE   
CONTRIBUTIONS IN U.S.
(in millions USD)’14$43.1*
’15$35.7
’16$32.0
’17$26.8
’18$28.0Emerson supports 
the expansion of KIPP public charter schools in St. Louis, Missouri.
49
 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES2018. Emerson’s Fisher valve facilities in 
Marshalltown were not damaged, but others were not so fortunate. Emerson provided $200,000 to the area Red Cross to aid local businesses and residents in their recovery efforts. In addition, our employees volunteered in general clean-up efforts to help fellow employees, neighbors and residents whose homes and property were damaged. Emerson donated more than 3,000 gloves, safety glasses and ear protection to the community volunteers and 1,000 tarps to support the recovery effort. 
EDUCATION
KIPP St. Louis Public Schools  (St. Louis, Missouri)  KIPP (Knowledge Is Power Program) – the national nonprofit network of college preparatory public charter schools that provide an option for quality education in underserved areas – has operated in St. Louis city since 2009. Today, KIPP St. Louis has five schools and provides free education to nearly 2,000 students. Emerson funded $1.75 million over four years (2015-2018) for KIPP’s Grow & Impact campaign, which includes opening its third elementary school in the  St. Louis area in August 2019, to serve an additional 120 kindergarten students. Beginning in 2019, Emerson committed to providing $1.4 million over five years (2019-2023) to the Phase 2 campaign to fund the purchase, renovation and capital growth of the high school, which opened its doors in 2017.CIVIC
City of Natchitoches, Louisiana Emerson’s Alliance compressor manufacturing facility in Natchitoches is an economic mainstay of this small community of nearly 18,000 people. We are among the corporate donors providing $100,000 over five years (2018-2022) to help the city fund construction of a new sports facility and recreational park on a 100-acre site. Construction of Parc Natchitoches is underway and expected to be ready for public use by spring of 2020. 
UNITED WAY SUPPORT 
Each year, Emerson and our employees get involved in United Way fundraising and volunteer activities in the U.S. communities where our employees live and work. In 2018, the Emerson Charitable Trust made contributions totaling $1.9 million to 29 United Way organizations across the country.
HELPING U.S. MILITARY VETERANS
Emerson is proud of the U.S. military veterans it employs. In 2018, we provided corporate support to a number of organizations serving military veterans and their families in need, such as:
Missouri Veterans Endeavor (MOVE)   Emerson has pledged $200,000 over four years (2017-2020) to MOVE, which provides housing for homeless veterans and their families, as well as counseling and support services to help them achieve independent living. Emerson’s UNITED WAY SUPPORT
Aiken County, South Carolina; Atlanta, Georgia; Austin, Texas; Cincinnati, Ohio; Erie County, Pennsylvania; Grayson County, Texas; Greater Philadelphia and Southern New Jersey; Guernsey and Noble Counties, Ohio; Houston, Texas; Kansas City, Missouri; Kenosha County, Wisconsin; Knoxville, Tennessee; Lafayette, Colorado; Lakeshore, Michigan; Lorain County, Ohio; Marshalltown, Iowa; Northern New Jersey; Racine County, Wisconsin; Richland County, Ohio; Rochester, New York; Rush County, Indiana; Shelby County, Ohio; Sherburne County, Minnesota; Southeastern Michigan; Southern Kentucky; St. Louis, Missouri; Twin Cities, Minnesota; Western Connecticut; and Williamson County, Texas.$1.9M2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT50
contributions 
will support the operations of the MOVE housing site, staff salaries and development, 
the mentorship program, and direct financial assistance for veterans and their families for costs such as rent, utilities and supplies for school or work.
American Corporate Partners   In 2018, 
Emerson entered into a collaboration with American Corporate Partners, a nonprofit organization dedicated to helping post-9/11 veterans transition from military to civilian life through career counseling and professional networking. In addition to its $50,000 charitable contribution, Emerson employee volunteers will participate in the organization’s mentorship program to help military veterans. 
REVITALIZING NORTH ST. LOUIS COUNTY 
Emerson continues to take a lead role as a corporate supporter of initiatives in the north St. Louis County region where our global headquarters is located. Our contributions support organizations providing social services, education and employment opportunities for economically disadvantaged residents in Ferguson and nearby communities.  More than 40 organizations received Emerson contributions in 2018 to help address various needs of north St. Louis County and the city of St. Louis. Examples include:
Emerson Family YMCA   Emerson has 
been a strong supporter of the local Y in Ferguson for decades. We have pledged $1.5 million over five years (2018-2022) to help renovate the nearly 50-year-old Emerson Family YMCA as part of a larger initiative across the Gateway YMCA organization to improve older facilities.  
Fathers’ Support Center   Improving 
the lives of children and families by encouraging committed and responsible parenting is the mission of the Fathers’ Support Center, which Emerson has supported since 2005. In 2018, we pledged $200,000 over five years (2018-2022) to a capital campaign to help the organization create a sustainable headquarters where absentee fathers are provided the resources they need to connect with their children.  
The Oasis Institute   Oasis helps keep 
older adults engaged and active in their communities. Emerson has donated $100,000 to support the expansion of Oasis services to north St. Louis County through establishment of an education center to engage older adult residents as student tutors and participants in lifelong learning and evidenced-based health classes.
TOTAL EMERSON  
AND EMERSON  CHARITABLE TRUST  
contributions and pledges since 2014 to residents of north  
St. Louis County.$20.7M
Emerson is proud to employ U.S. military veterans and to provide charitable support to veterans in need.51
 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIESEmerson Philanthropy in Other 
Countries 
Emerson is committed to making a 
difference in the communities where we operate around the world. We support a variety of nonprofit and charitable organizations aligned with our corporate philanthropy focus areas, and we encourage our employees to volunteer their time to support causes that make an impact. Examples of our charitable and volunteer activities in other countries include:
CHINA CHARITABLE PROGRAM
Emerson’s China Charitable Program, launched in 2009, focuses on infrastructure development  
education, and health and human services to enhance quality of life in Chinese communities. 
Infrastructure Development 
  Emerson 
is a longtime corporate sponsor of 
Water Cellar for Mothers, an initiative sponsored by the China Women’s Development Foundation that helps relieve water shortages in impoverished villages without direct access to clean running water. Over the past 10 years, Emerson has donated nearly $1 million to Water Cellar for Mothers, bringing clean water to more than 8,000 villagers in western China. Our employees have also volunteered their time to visit the villages to assess the effectiveness and impact of the program. 
Health and Human Services
   For the 
past seven years, Emerson has been a 
corporate supporter of the Congenital Heart Disease (CHD) relief program initiated by the Red Cross Society of China to help children with CHD receive medical treatment in western China. We sponsored 25 children in Guizhou Province in 2018. Our employees also support the program by providing donations and volunteering to visit hospitals. The Red Cross Society of  China recently launched a campus  clinic program for underdeveloped schools, building health sanitation systems and providing students with free checkups. In support of the program, Emerson China has donated more than $70,000 to support construction of the campus clinic to provide checkups and physician training.
Education
   Emerson has supported 
the New Great Wall Program since 
2010, providing scholarships for more than 100 students from underprivileged families to attend university every year. Our employees also take part in the program through volunteer teaching opportunities. This program and the schools we support have made a positive impact, helping train leaders, business managers and skilled individuals who can lead and thrive in a changing world. Emerson was recognized by the China Foundation of Poverty Alleviation for the company’s outstanding contributions in 2018.
2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT52
INDIA CHARITABLE PROGRAM
Our charitable programs in India seek 
to support initiatives with impactful and enduring results. Aligned with the country’s regulations, Emerson’s CSR programs in India are focused on health, infrastructure development and education for disadvantaged youth. In 2018, we provided support to the following nongovernment organizations (NGOs) and projects:
Access to Safe Drinking Water
   Near 
Chakan, where Emerson is building 
a new manufacturing plant, we are working with Action for Food Production (AFPRO) to improve access to safe drinking water for four villages and schools through construction of a water reservoir. We are also working with the Learning Links Foundation in the same area to enhance the quality of education for students in first through fifth grades at five schools, through teacher training, remedial learning and instilling a values-based culture in the classroom. 
Transforming a School 
  Learning 
Links Foundation, with support from 
Emerson, is also initiating a ‘whole school transformation’ program at a government school in Pune, which includes leadership development for the principal, professional development for teachers and holistic development for students. Additionally, Emerson is supporting the establishment of a STEM Tinkering Lab for students of sixth grade and above in a government school at Mohali through Learning Links.
Skills Development
   In support of skills 
development, Emerson is supporting 
Masoom and its night school program in Mumbai. Our funding is providing support for short-term skill development for 100 students, long-term skilling for 20 students, and we have invested in Masoom’s “tech on wheels” initiative to reach 400 additional students. 
Helping Disadvantaged Youth   Emerson 
has continued its support for the work of Purkal Youth Development Society in Dehradun, which provides a nurturing, caring educational environment for underprivileged students, including meals, uniforms, medical facilities and a hostel. Emerson funding has been used to fund teacher training, construction and materials for a STEM lab and sponsorship of two classrooms. Our funding enabled Agastya International Foundation to bring its innovative, mobile, hands-on science education program for economically disadvantaged youth attending government schools in Pune. 
Vocational Education   In Chennai, 
Emerson has initiated a three-year program with Lend-A-Hand India to introduce multi-skill vocational education program in four schools located remotely, for students from 
Aligned with the 
country’s regulations, 
Emerson’s CSR programs 
in India are focused on 
health, infrastructure 
development and 
education for 
disadvantaged youth. EMERSON HAS  
SUPPORTED THE NEW  GREAT WALL PROGRAM,  
providing scholarships for more than 100 students from underprivileged families to attend university every year.100+53
 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIESninth and tenth grades to be National 
Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF) compliant, covering 160 students in year one, 320 students in year two and 480 students in year three.
In addition, our business units in India 
have provided funding or donated equipment for a variety of education, health and infrastructure projects near communities where our facilities are located, as well as providing scholarships for engineering school students. These projects have been carried out in or near the cities of Atit, Harphalwadi, Kamshet, Karad, Pali, Pune and Satara.
Employee Volunteerism  
and In-Kind Support
Each year, Emerson employees around the world volunteer their time in support of nonprofit and charitable organizations in their local communities. From giving their time and talents to providing financial assistance, our employees give back to their communities in a variety of ways, including service on governing boards, fundraising and sharing their expertise and volunteering in other capacities. A few examples from the past year:  
Habitat for Humanity in Sidney, Ohio
    
In 2018, Emerson co-sponsored 
construction costs for the building of a Habitat for Humanity home in Sidney, and more than 25 employees participated in helping build the home. Tree planting in Lodz, Poland
   
Emerson’s ASCO Numatics employees in Lodz planted 1,000 trees and did other activities to commemorate Environmental Month in April 2018.   
ScholaRun in Manila
   More than 1,400 
Emerson employees participated 
in the 7th ScholaRun, organized by 
the American Chamber Foundation (AmCham) and co-sponsored by Emerson to raise funds for AmCham’s scholarship program. 
Mississauga Food Bank, Ontario, 
Canada   The Mississauga Food Bank is a central food bank providing food for 217,000 meals a month through a network of 50 member agencies near Toronto. Emerson Canada is donating three years of facility monitoring to the Mississauga Food Bank and installed monitoring at six locations, allowing the managers of each location, as well as individuals at the central food bank, to meet food safety standards and reduce waste due to food loss – ensuring that more families have access to healthy, fresh food each day.
NUMBER OF  
TREES PLANTED  
by Emerson’s ASCO Numatics employees  
in Lodz, Poland in  
April 2018. 1 ,0002018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT54
FUNDING  
COMMITMENTS  
through fiscal 2023 by Emerson and Emerson Charitable Trust in support of STEM education programs/activities in the United States.$14.6MEmerson is playing a lead role in our 
local communities and globally to help prepare the next generation with STEM-related education and to raise awareness of career opportunities in these fields.
Today’s global manufacturing industry 
relies heavily on STEM skills – and its workforce is required to have more technical knowledge than ever before. To prepare the next generation for these careers, Emerson has an enhanced emphasis on promoting STEM, especially among women and minorities who are traditionally underrepresented in the engineering and manufacturing industries. 
Among the STEM initiatives receiving 
Emerson funding in 2018:
The Magic House
   Emerson has pledged 
$1 million over five years (2018-2022) 
to this leading children’s museum in the St. Louis area in support of the establishment of a new STEAM (science, technology, engineering, art and math) center that opened in March 2019. The center features a science lab, “future play” exhibit, make-it workshop, art studio and extended math path. As part of the campaign, the funds will also support free educational field trips to the museum for 7,500 children, teachers and parents from underserved communities. 
Junior Achievement (JA) USA 
  Emerson 
has provided $300,000 over a five-year 
period (2015-2019) to the national Junior Achievement organization to revitalize its curriculum. This includes development of a new “JA It’s My Future” work readiness program, which incorporates STEM and a robust, hands-on learning opportunity to prepare middle school students for the working world. The program is being transformed from a paper-based curriculum to a multi-dimensional experience.
Texas A&M University
   Emerson 
has pledged $1.5 million over six 
years (2018-2023) to establish an advanced automation laboratory and collaboration room in the university’s new state-of-the art Zachry Engineering Education Complex that opened in the summer of 2018. Simulating real-world plant operations in manufacturing facilities in a range of industries, the STEM Education
The Magic House in 
St. Louis, Missouri55
laboratory provides engineering 
students a modern, high-tech learning environment where they can access some of the most advanced automation technologies in the world. In addition, Emerson provided the process control equipment for a fully functional distillation lab, expected to be completed in 2019. Emerson is proud to support the engineering program at Texas A&M, which places a special focus on the inclusion of underrepresented groups. The university had the largest 2018 entering class of female engineering students in the nation. 
Other organizations and institutions with 
STEM-related initiatives being funded by Emerson in 2018 include (partial list): Air Camp, Dayton, Ohio; Challenger Learning Center, St. Louis, Missouri; Girl Scouts of Eastern Missouri, St. Louis, Missouri; Harris-Stowe State University, St. Louis, Missouri; Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa; Ranken Technical College, St. Louis, Missouri; Society of Women Engineers, Chicago, Illinois; Southwest Key Programs, Austin, Texas; Texas Alliance for Minorities in Engineering, Inc., Austin, Texas; United Negro College Fund, Washington, D.C.; Washington University STEM Teacher Quality Program, St. Louis, Missouri; Wright State University Foundation, Dayton, Ohio.
STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIESWe Love STEM 
Our award-winning “We Love STEM” campaign and employee volunteer effort, launched in 2015, continued in 2018 and broadened to a truly international effort to increase support for STEM education and awareness of career opportunities. We continued to partner with YouTube star Hank Green in 2018 to produce a series of videos on STEM topics. Emerson shares these videos on our social media channels to extend our reach, awareness efforts and support for STEM education. 
Emerson facilities host “We Love STEM 
Days” for employees’ children and youth outreach in the communities where we operate. The goal of this initiative is to help young people discover STEM fields – and some students even leave our events inspired to pursue careers in STEM. Here are just a few examples of events hosted in 2018 and organized with volunteer support from our employees, most especially our local Women in STEM members:
United States 
  
Emerson employees 
hosted the first “We Love STEM Day” at the world headquarters in  St. Louis, Missouri, with more than 300 children. 
The goal of the “We Love 
STEM” initiative is to help young people discover STEM fields – and some students even leave our events inspired to pursue careers in STEM. 2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT56
China    Emerson employees in China 
hosted a “We Love STEM Day,” and 
employees in Thailand hosted a career talk, a STEM tutor challenge and a “We Love STEM Day.” 
India
   In India, children-focused STEM 
awareness days were held at the 
Emerson Innovation Center in Pune and the Global Engineering Center in Noida. 
Philippines
   In the Philippines, Emerson 
employees led 27 STEM talks, technical 
trainings and tours, three STEM days, four student innovation contests, two activities with Girl Scouts of the Philippines and five STEM caravans, which are a series of roving educational STEM modules. Emerson Philippines also sponsors a scholarship program that since 2015 has benefited 78 students attending four partner universities. As part of the program, Emerson executives provide training and mentorship to the student scholars; as a result, 26 scholars have been hired by the company.
Europe
   Emerson employees hosted 
“We Love STEM” days in 12 European 
countries where Emerson has a presence. In the Netherlands, Emerson employees hosted a Chemical Day for students to learn about this important sector and shadow days for students to visit Emerson. In Sweden, employees represented Emerson at student fairs and universities. Emerson’s Women in STEM employee volunteers helped organize and host a “We Love STEM” day at our Cluj, Romania, campus for 700 children from local schools to raise awareness of career opportunities in STEM fields. Middle East
   In the Middle East, Emerson 
employees hosted a Family STEM Day where more than 800 people actively participated. In Dubai, an Emerson employee led a session for students in grades eight through 12 to learn about Emerson and careers in STEM.
South America
   Emerson employees in 
Argentina hosted a “We Love STEM” 
event with over 40 children, and employees in Brazil participated in a wide variety of programs, including STEM science fairs with K-12  
students and engineering events at local universities. 
Mexico
   In Mexico, employees 
participated in multiple STEM events 
with over 200 local schoolchildren and launched a partnership with Mexico FIRST to support student robotics competitions. Ongoing efforts in  
Mexico led to Emerson being recognized by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy and the Alliance for Corporate Social Responsibility with the CSR 2019 Socially Responsible Company Distinction.
Costa Rica
   Emerson supports several 
STEM initiatives in Costa Rica, including 
a robotics program for schoolchildren and programs to encourage STEM education for young women in  high school. 
In Mexico, employees 
participated in multiple 
STEM events with over 
200 local schoolchildren 
and launched a 
partnership with Mexico 
FIRST to support student 
robotics competitions.
EMERSON EMPLOYEES  
HOSTED “WE LOVE  STEM” DAYS in 12 European countries where Emerson has a presence.122018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT57
Disclosure 
NumberGRI Standard TitleDisclosure Title Location
GRI 102-1 General 
DisclosuresName of the organization Emerson Electric Co.
GRI 102-2 General DisclosuresActivities, brands, products, and services
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Company Profile, p. 6
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Item 1 –  BusinessEmerson.com
GRI 102-3 General 
DisclosuresLocation of headquarters Emerson Electric Co.
8000 West Florissant Avenue, P.O. Box 4100St. Louis, MO 63136 USA
GRI 102-4 General 
DisclosuresLocation of operations
Emerson.com: Contact Us
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Item 2 – Properties   Emerson.com: Investor Fact Sheet
GRI 102-5 General 
DisclosuresOwnership and legal form
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Articles of Incorporation)
GRI 102-6 General DisclosuresMarkets served
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Item 1 – Business
Emerson.com: Automation SolutionsEmerson.com: Commercial & Residential Solutions
GRI 102-7 General 
DisclosuresScale of the organization
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Item 1 –  Business
Emerson.com: Investor Fact Sheet
GRI 102-8 General 
DisclosuresInformation on employees and other workers Partially reported: 
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Investing in People (Emerson’s U.S. 
Workforce Diversity 2014 – 2018), p. 45
GRI 102-9 General DisclosuresSupply chain
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Item 1 – Business
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Supply Chain), 
p. 28-31 
GRI 102-10 General DisclosuresSignificant changes to the organization and its supply chain
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Item 1 –  Business
Emerson 2018 Annual Report: Letter to Shareholders
GRI 102-11 General 
DisclosuresPrecautionary principle or approach Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 19  
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk FactorsGENERAL DISCLOSURESGRI Index2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT58
Disclosure 
NumberGRI Standard TitleDisclosure Title Location
GRI 102-12 General 
DisclosuresExternal initiatives Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Designing Greener Buildings), p. 24 , 29, 41
Member of:
Alliance for Responsible Atmospheric PolicyCEO Action for Diversity & InclusionEuropean Partnership for Energy & the EnvironmentResponsible Minerals Initiative U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC)Water Research Foundation
GRI 102-13 General 
DisclosuresMembership of associations
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Trade Associations & Lobbying)
GRI 102-14 General DisclosuresStatement from senior decision-maker
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Chairman’s Message, p. 3
GRI 102-15 General DisclosuresKey impacts, risks, and opportunities
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 19
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk Factors
GRI 102-16 General 
DisclosuresValues, principles, standards, and norms of behavior
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Integrity and Ethics), p. 20
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Our Values, p. 5Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Business Ethics)
GRI 102-17 General 
DisclosuresMechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Ethics and Compliance)
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Employee Code 
of Conduct), p. 20
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Ethics Hotline 
and Reporting Process), p. 21
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Investing in People (Grievance 
Reporting Mechanisms), p. 35
GRI 102-18 General DisclosuresGovernance structure
Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 8
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Corporate 
Governance), p. 17
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles & Practices)
GRI 102-19 General 
DisclosuresDelegating authority Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 8
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Environmental 
Management at Our Facilities), p. 23
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Board of 
Directors), p. 17
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles & Practices – 
Board Oversight of Management)2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT59
GRI 102-22 General 
DisclosuresComposition of the highest governance body and its committees Emerson.com: Corporate Governance
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Board of 
Directors Policies), p. 17
Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, pp. 3-4, 9-10
GRI 102-23 General 
DisclosuresChair of the highest governance body Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles & Practices)
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Board of 
Directors Policies), p. 17
Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 9
GRI 102-24 General 
DisclosuresNominating and selecting the highest governance body Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles & Practices)
Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 13
GRI 102-25 General 
DisclosuresConflicts of interest Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Conflict of Interest Evaluation and Reporting), p. 22
Emerson.com: Corporate Social Responsibility (Integrity & Ethics)
GRI 102-26 General 
DisclosuresRole of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Board of Directors Policies), p. 17
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Principles & Practices)Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Committee Charters)Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 8
GRI 102-27 General 
DisclosuresCollective knowledge of highest governance bodyEmerson’s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary briefs the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee on corporate responsibility topics on at least an annual basis.
GRI 102-28 General DisclosuresEvaluating the highest governance body’s performance
Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p.  13
GRI 102-29 General DisclosuresIdentifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Audit Committee Charter)
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Risk 
Management and Oversight), p. 19
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk Factors
GRI 102-30  General 
DisclosuresEffectiveness of risk management processes Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 19
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Item 1A – Risk Factors
GRI 102-31 General 
DisclosuresReview of economic, environmental and social topics
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Risk Management and Oversight), p. 19
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Audit Committee Charter)
GRI 102-32 General 
DisclosuresHighest governance body’s role in sustainability reportingThe Corporate Social Responsibility Report is reviewed by the Emerson Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.Disclosure 
NumberGRI Standard TitleDisclosure Title Location2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT60
GRI 102-33 General 
DisclosuresCommunicating critical concerns Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Ethics Hotline and Reporting Process), p. 21
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Conflict of Interest 
Evaluation and Reporting), p. 22
Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, p. 6
GRI 102-34 General 
DisclosuresNature and total number of critical concerns
Partially reported: 
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Ethics Hotline 
and Reporting Process), p. 21
GRI 102-35 General DisclosuresRemuneration policies
Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Director Compensation, p. 14; Executive Compensation, p. 19
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Part III
GRI 102-36 General 
DisclosuresProcess for determining remuneration
Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Director Compensation, p. 14; Executive Compensation, p. 16
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Part III
GRI 102-38 General 
DisclosuresAnnual total compensation ratio
Emerson 2019 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement: Pay Ratio Disclosure, p. 45
GRI 102-40 General DisclosuresList of stakeholder groups
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Trade Associations & Lobbying)
Other organizations listed throughout the report
GRI 102-41 General 
DisclosuresCollective bargaining agreements
Emerson 2018 CSR Report:  Investing in People (Labor Relations), p. 33
GRI 102-42 General DisclosuresIdentifying and selecting stakeholders Emerson solicits and uses feedback from employees, customers, investors and analysts, community leaders, suppliers, regulators and NGOs to understand concerns and impacts of our operations on the environment, the economy and local communities. 
GRI 102-45 General DisclosuresEntities included in the consolidated financial statements
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Subsidiaries and Affiliates of Emerson Electric Co., September 30, 2018
GRI 102-50 General DisclosuresReporting period
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: About this Report, p. 64
GRI 102-51 General DisclosuresDate of most recent report May 2018
GRI 102-52 General DisclosuresReporting cycle
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: About this Report, p. 64
GRI 102-53 General DisclosuresContact point for questions regarding the report
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: About this Report, p. 64Disclosure 
NumberGRI Standard TitleDisclosure Title Location2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT61
GRI 201-1 Economic 
PerformanceDirect economic value generated and 
distributedEmerson 2018 Form 10-K: Results of Operations
GRI 201-3 Economic 
PerformanceDefined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Retirement Plans
GRI 203-1 Indirect 
Economic ImpactsInfrastructure investments and services supported
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Strengthening Communities (U.S. Charitable Contributions), p. 48; (China Charitable Program), p. 51 ; 
(India Charitable Program), p. 52 
GRI 203-2 Indirect 
Economic ImpactsSignificant indirect economic impacts
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Strengthening Communities (U.S. Charitable Contributions), p. 48; (China Charitable Program), p. 51 ; 
(India Charitable Program), p. 52 
GRI 204-1 Procurement 
PracticesProportion of spending on local suppliers
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Regional Sourcing), p. 31
GRI 205-2 Anti-
corruptionCommunication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
Partially reported:
Emerson 2018 CSR Report:  Integrity & Ethics (Anti-Corruption 
Controls), p. 22
GRI 206-1 Anti-
competitive behaviorLegal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
Emerson 2018 Form 10-K: Note 13 – Contingent Liabilities and CommitmentsGRI 102-54 General DisclosuresClaims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards
This material references GRI Standards as is detailed in this index.
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: About this Report, p. 64
GRI 102-55 General 
DisclosuresGRI content index Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Referenced GRI Standards Index, p. 57
ECONOMIC INDICATORSDisclosure 
NumberGRI Standard TitleDisclosure Title Location
GRI 302-1 Energy   Energy consumption within the 
organizationPartially Reported:
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Electricity Use), 
p. 27
GRI 302-4 Energy Reduction of energy consumption Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Electricity Use), p. 27
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Promoting 
Energy Conservation and Energy Efficiency), p. 23ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT62
Disclosure 
NumberGRI Standard TitleDisclosure Title Location
SOCIAL INDICATORS
GRI 401-2 Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or part-
time employeesPartially reported:
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Investing in People (Wages and 
Benefits), p. 33; (Paid Parental Leave), p. 34 ; (Enhancing Wages, 
Benefits for U.S. Employees), p. 34
GRI 403-1(2016 Standard)Occupational Health and SafetyTypes of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities
Partially reported:
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Investing in People (Health and Safety 
Performance), p. 40GRI 303-1(2016 Standard)Water Water withdrawal by source
Partially reported:
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Water 
Consumption), p. 27
GRI 305-1 Emissions Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Greenhouse Gas Emissions), p. 27
Emerson uses an in-house methodology for collecting activity 
data. Each year, a form is sent out to environmental staff at each manufacturing facility requesting the following information:  stationary combustion use, fuel types, amount of fuel purchased/used, mobile combustion fuel type and amount purchased/used, vehicle types and amount of fuel used for each, amount of electricity used, cost of electricity used, how electricity is generated, and any reason for change in emissions from the previous year. These data are compiled and used to calculate Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Scope 1 emissions are calculated using the EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership Greenhouse Gas Inventory Guidance – direct emission from mobile and stationary sources, January 2016, tables A-1, A-2, B-1, B-7 and B-8. For CY2018 Emerson included non-manufacturing sites in the Scope 1 and 2 emissions. While estimations and assumptions were used to gather the data for non-manufacturing sites, emission calculations are done the same as the manufacturing sites. 
GRI 305-2 Emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Greenhouse Gas Emissions), p. 27
See 305-1 for energy data methodology. Scope 2 emissions are 
calculated using IEA (2015). CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2015 Edition. International Energy Agency. 2.10.2 Direct Global Warming Potentials. IPCC - Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. IPCC “Calculating Greenhouse Gases.” Calculating Greenhouse Gases. International Carbon Bank Exchange. 
GRI 307-1
Environmental 
ComplianceNon-compliance with environmental laws 
and regulationsEmerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Fines and Sanctions), p. 262018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT63
Disclosure 
NumberGRI Standard TitleDisclosure Title Location
GRI 404-2 Training and 
EducationPrograms for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programsEmerson.com: Careers (Learning & Development)
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Investing in People (Training and 
Development), p. 36-37
GRI 405-1 Diversity 
and Equal OpportunityDiversity of governance bodies and employees
Partially reported:
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Investing in People (Emerson’s U.S. 
Workforce Diversity 2014 – 2018), p. 45
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Board of 
Directors Policies), p. 17
GRI 407-1 Freedom of Association and Collective BargainingOperations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk
Partially reported (company operations only):
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Investing in People (Labor Relations), 
p. 33
GRI 408-1 Child Labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of child laborPartially reported (company operations only):
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Investing in People (Labor Relations), p. 33; 
(Human Rights), p. 34 -35
GRI 409-1 Child Labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of forced or compulsory laborPartially reported (company operations only):
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Investing in People (Labor Relations), p. 33; 
(Human Rights), p. 34 -35
GRI 412-1 Human Rights AssessmentOperations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Supply Chain (New Initiatives Underway), p. 30
GRI 412-3 Human Rights AssessmentSignificant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening
Partially reported:
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Affirming 
Supplier Responsibility), p. 30
GRI 414-1 Supplier 
Social AssessmentNew suppliers that were screened using social criteria
Partially reported:
Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Affirming 
Supplier Responsibility), p. 30
GRI 415-1 Public Policy Political contributions Emerson 2018 CSR Report: Operating Responsibly (Political Participation), p. 19
Emerson.com: Corporate Governance (Political Contributions)2018 EMERSON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT64
About this 
Report
The Emerson 2018 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report presents information focused primarily on data collected and activities that occurred during calendar 2018 or Emerson’s fiscal 2018 (October 1, 2017 – September 30, 
2018), except where indicated otherwise. 
In fiscal 2018, the company funded $2.2 billion in acquisitions, which added 7% to our sales, while the divestiture of the residential storage business (Closetmaid) subtracted 2%. Where appropriate, we have indicated whether the data we present here includes discontinued businesses.  
This report presents information that 
references selected Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2018, unless noted otherwise. Please see the Referenced GRI Index beginning on  Page 57 for details.
Appleton, ASCO, AVENTICS, Bettis, Branson, Copeland, Copeland Scroll, DeltaV, Emerson, Emerson Automation Solutions, Emerson Commercial & Residential Solutions, Fisher, Greenlee, Grind2Energy, InSinkErator, Keystone, Klauke, KTM, Micro Motion, Ovation, Plantweb, ProAct, RIDGID, Rosemount, Sensi, Vanessa, 
WirelessHART and their related designs and logotypes used in this Corporate Social Responsibility Report are trademarks, service marks and/or trade names of Emerson, its subsidiaries, affiliates, investments, or joint ventures.  
Action for Food Production (AFPRO), Agastya International Foundation, Air Camp, American 
Chamber Foundation, American Corporate Partners, American Red Cross, Arbogast Performing Arts Center, AspenTech, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion, Challenger Learning Center St. Louis, China Foundation of Poverty Alleviation, China Women’s Development Foundation, Consortium for Graduate Study in Management, ENERGY STAR, Fathers’ Support Center St. Louis, Forest Park Forever, Gateway Arch Park Foundation, Gateway YMCA, Georgetown University, Girl Scouts of Eastern Missouri, Girl Scouts of the Philippines, Habitat for Humanity, Harris-Stowe State University, Harvard University, HID Global, IBM Food Trust, Indian Any questions or 
comments regarding this report can be directed to our Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility, 8000 West Florissant Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63136, +1-314-553-2000We expect to update this report 
annually. However, we undertake no obligation to update any statements herein to reflect later developments. This report may contain forward-looking statements that are not strictly historical and may involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, protection of intellectual property, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in Emerson’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission.
Green Building Council, IndianOil, Intercultural Development Inventory (IDI), Iowa State University, Junior Achievement USA, Knowledge Is Power Program (KIPP), Learning Links Foundation, Masoom, Mississauga Food Bank, Missouri Botanical Garden, Missouri History Museum, Missouri Veterans Endeavor (MOVE), Northwestern University, Purkal Youth Development Society, Ranken Technical College, Red Cross Society of China, Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), Saint Louis Art Museum, Saint Louis Science Center, Saint Louis Zoo, ScholaRun, Society of Women Engineers, Southwest Key Programs, Texas A&M University, Texas Alliance for Minorities in Engineering, Inc., The Magic House, The Muny, The Oasis Institute, Troy Foundation, United Negro College Fund, United States Green Building Council (USGBC), United Way, University of Michigan, University of Notre Dame, Washington University in St. Louis, Washington University STEM Teacher Quality Initiative, Wright State University Foundation, Zachry Engineering Education Complex and their related designs and logotypes used in this Corporate Social Responsibility Report are trademarks, service marks and/or trade names of their owner, and are not owned or affiliated with Emerson.
©Emerson Electric Co., 2018. All Rights Reserved.
