ABOUT THIS REPORT
MESSAGE FROM THE CEOABOUT EQTSAFETYENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYECONOMIC IMPACTGLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTENT INDEXEQT’S PARTICIPATION IN THE VALUE CHAIN
12359
1321313654TABLE OF CONTENTS2EQT Corporation’s (EQT or the Company) 2012 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report is presented in accordance with Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines 3.1 and the Oil and Gas 
Sector Supplement.  GRI standards and technical protocols  
were used to determine the materiality of data, the methods  
for reporting that data, and to validate completeness.  Internal risk assessment, benchmarking, and gap analysis helped determine which sustainability topics were most relevant to  
EQT and its stakeholders.
The current report covers activity at EQT headquarters and the 
three wholly-owned business segments:  Production, Midstream 
and Distribution (Equitable Gas), for the period January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012.  Most quantitative data provided is derived 
from direct measurements.  Where actual data is not available, 
appropriate estimates and calculations may be used, following industry or internationally recognized standards.  ABOUT
THIS
REPORT
This report addresses the expectations of EQT stakeholder groups 
across all aspects of our business. From past experience, we 
know that each of these groups are interested in, and potentially 
use, one or more portions of the document.  For this reason, we will continue to evolve our stakeholder engagement, monitor 
feedback, and adjust our materiality assessment as needed.   
EQT knows that our stakeholders have concerns about the 
processes used to extract natural gas, as well as their potential 
effects on safety and the environment.  With this in mind, our 
commitment to community goes beyond creating new jobs and stimulating economic growth — we recognize our responsibility 
to identify and answer our stakeholders’ questions.
The publication of this report is one of many ways that EQT 
remains accountable to its stakeholders, and demonstrates that sustainability is fully integrated into everything we do. Based on 
current guidelines, we are proud to self-declare that the report 
meets the requirements of GRI Application Level B.
Go back to Table of ContentsMESSAGE FROM THE CEO
Dear Stakeholders,
Achieving success as a Company depends upon our ability to operate safely, responsibly, and collaboratively to ensure that communities 
benefit from our activities — and contributing to the overall sustainability of these communities relies on these same efforts.  At EQT, 
managing the impacts of our activities — whether related to safety, environmental, ethical, or social performance — is a fundamental  
part of how we do business.  With EQT’s focus on integrated sustainability, we strive to set operating standards that are consistent with 
our desire to be a continued and welcome member of the communities in which we live and operate.
After more than a century in the natural gas business, our culture of safety and environmental compliance continues to demonstrate  
EQT’s commitment to operating responsibly.  Protecting the health and safety of our people and the public remains our top priority.  
During 2012, we developed a comprehensive new Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy that lays out specific principles to guide 
EQT and its employees to superior performance in these areas.  The new policy underscores our commitment to keeping  
one another safe and maintaining a zero-injury culture.
The new EHS policy also reinforces EQT’s commitment to protecting the environment we all share, and we take great care in finding  
ways of continuing to minimize our environmental footprint.  Examples include enhancing our water conservation and recycling efforts, 
and using innovative technologies to reduce emissions during our drilling operations.  As outlined in this report, we believe we have a  
solid track record of responsible environmental performance that strives to preserve and protect the land, air, and water where we live  
and do business.
Finally, we must acknowledge the effects that our business operations have on the economic stability of our Company, our employees, 
our shareholders, and other stakeholders in the community.  In addition to being a well-run business financially, EQT’s sustainability 
commitments include providing significant direct and indirect benefits to the local economy, supporting the infrastructure of our  
operating regions, and effectively managing the development of our natural gas reserves.
Even as we recognize that we must always strive to improve, it is with pride that we present EQT Corporation’s latest Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report, a comprehensive overview of our sustainability performance and programs during 2012.  You will find many examples of how our employees use innovation and commitment to work safely and preserve the environment — and how, as a 
Company, we strive to enrich our communities.
David L. Porges
Chief Executive OfficerEQT Corporation
 
3 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
Go back to Table of Contents4
Go back to Table of ContentsCORPORATE STRUCTURE
With more than 1,870 employees at the end of 2012, EQT 
conducted business in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, 
Kentucky and Virginia through three primary business segments:  
Production, Midstream and Distribution.  Our Production segment is one of the largest natural gas producers in the Appalachian 
Basin, with 6.0 Tcfe of proved natural gas and crude oil reserves 
across approximately 3.5 million gross acres; about 540,000 of those gross acres were located in the Marcellus Shale play.  Our 
Midstream segment provides the gathering, transmission and 
storage services needed to move our own produced gas, and that of other independent producers, across the Appalachian Basin to 
the market.  The Distribution segment distributes and sells natural 
gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers through our wholly owned subsidiary, Equitable Gas Company, LLC (Equitable 
Gas).  This regulated distribution company serves more than 
277,000 customers in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and  
eastern Kentucky.
GOVERNANCE
EQT’s internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all directors, officers, employees and consultants of the 
Company, and serves as the principal guide for ensuring that 
we operate responsibly from an economic, environmental and social performance standpoint.  The top governing body of the 
Company, the EQT Board of Directors, sets high standards, and 
looks to the charter of its Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee (PPCR) to define the roles and responsibilities regarding 
EQT’s compliance with laws, regulations, policies and practices 
that relate to economic, social, environmental, health, safety and other sustainability matters.  This committee meets as needed, on 
average, four times per year, to assess the Company’s performance 
and make procedural improvement recommendations to EQT management and the Board of Directors. The frequency of board 
committee meetings can be found in the Company’s annual  
Proxy Statement.ABOUT 
EQT
EQT Corporation (NYSE: EQT) is a Fortune 500 investor-
owned corporation, headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and operating solely in the United States.   EQT’s role in the natural gas industry goes back more than a century to the formation of the Equitable Gas Company by renowned inventor and businessman George Westinghouse, a visionary entrepreneur who understood how important natural gas could be to industrial growth in the Pittsburgh region and beyond.   As the natural gas sector — and the broader energy industry — changed,  
the Company expanded and grew into the entity now known as EQT Corporation.
5 ABOUT EQT
FAST FACTS: EQT Corporation
Type Investor-Owned
NYSE EQT
Founded 1888
Hometown Pittsburgh, PA
Employees 1,873
Divisions Production
 Midstream
 Distribution (Equitable Gas)
Go back to Table of ContentsCOMPOSITION:  EQT Board of Directors
 Executive Independent
Total Members, Male 1 8
Total Members, Female 0 2
Male 100% 80%
Female 0% 20%
Minority 0% 20%
Non-Minority 100% 80%
Age    30 0% 0%
Age 30-50 0% 10%
Age    50 100% 90% <<
INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY
EQT is one of the few operators in our industry that touches almost 
every aspect of the natural gas value chain (see pages 54-55), and 
has been doing so for more than a century.  From this unique 
vantage point, we have been able to develop and implement standards for integrated sustainability that consider the needs and 
concerns of a very diverse community of stakeholders, balanced 
against the materiality needs of the company.   
We know from experience the importance of establishing trust 
among our various audiences, and our sustainability initiatives go 
a long way toward demonstrating awareness of how our core activities directly affect the lives and livelihoods of thousands 
of people.  Although these efforts are not always labeled 
“sustainability,” they are thoroughly integrated into our business model and play a key role in assuring that we operate with honesty, 
fairness and integrity — while also respecting the economic, 
environmental, and social implications of our actions. EQT works hard to maintain its standing as a company built on safety, integrity, accountability, and transparency.   While most of our employees know instinctively that these are the important 
pillars of our business, few have actually seen them formally 
expressed.  In 2012, we began working on a number of initiatives to help our employees understand these core values.  We started  
by actually saying the words — to ourselves and to others.  
We also began articulating the Company’s unspoken mission and 
vision, so that we could more consistently communicate to external 
stakeholders our awareness and understanding of what mattered 
most to them.  We anticipate formally rolling out many of these initiatives in 2013 and beyond.  The fact that these values have 
always been part of our existence reinforces our reputation as  
a company that respects its stakeholders, allowing us to grow  
our business and be welcomed into communities that want to  
grow with us.
With sustainability at the heart of everything we do at EQT,  
our strategies for organizational success (current, near-term  
and long-term) are also guided by our core values.We monitor all of our activities in these areas, and follow 
established procedures to continuously evaluate our operations  
and identify areas for improvement, ensure compliance with regulatory policies, and expand stakeholder awareness of  
our performance.
6•    EQT Board Committee responsibilities are described at http://ir.eqt.com
Go back to Table of Contents7 ABOUT EQT
Go back to Table of Contents8
Go back to Table of ContentsTo achieve superior performance, EQT strives to ensure that 
every employee of the company, and that of every contractor or 
subcontractor, has a direct responsibility to maintain a safe working 
environment.  We also make sure that these employees receive the training and support needed to integrate superior health and safety 
principles into their work, no matter what they do or where they 
do it.  In addition, we encourage employees to share their safety principles with friends and family.
EMPLOYEE SAFETY
For EQT employees, training starts on day one during employee orientation and then continues throughout their EQT careers.  
The frequency and type of subsequent training varies based on  
the work an individual does and the issues he or she may face on a daily basis.  Safety training may be delivered using three different 
formats:  classroom, hands-on, or computer-based.  In 2012, our 
field employees received comprehensive training in a number of issues common to their work activities.  The table shown at the 
right is a representative sampling of training topics.SAFETY
Safety is a core value for our organization.  EQT will 
provide a safe and healthy workplace for its employees and contractors, and through continuous improvement, we will work to create and maintain a zero-injury  
culture.  We will not compromise safety to gain a business advantage.
9 SAFETYIn a further effort to help our employees stay safe on the job, we 
developed a plan to significantly expand personal industrial hygiene 
monitoring.  This plan will be rolled out in 2013.
2012 REQUIRED SAFETY T OPICS  
FOR FIELD EMPLOYEE TRAINING
MONTH MONTHLY SAFETY T OPICS
January Slip/Trip/Fall Prevention; Cold Stress; Winter 
Driving; Records Access, Workplace Violence Policy (developed w/HR), Tailgate Safety Meetings (TSMs)
February Safety Value Drivers; Incident Reporting/  
Investigation; Lifting; Hand Tool Safety; Pinch Point Hazards; Driving (Fatigue) 
March Working Around Mobile Equipment; Fall Protection; Ladder Safety; Scaffold Safety 
Awareness; Weed-Eating/Chainsaw Safety; 
Driving (Backing) 
April Blood Borne Pathogens; Hand Hygiene;  
Lead-Paint Awareness; Asbestos  
Awareness; Driving (Off -Road)
May Heat Related Illness Prevention; Outdoor/
Wildlife Safety; Confined Space Awareness; 
Motorcycle Awareness
June Emergency Action Plans; Excavation Safety; Mobile Equipment Awareness; Dogs;  
Driving (Distractions) 
July
Electrical Safety Procedures; Personal Protection 
Equipment; Summer Driving; Production & 
Midstream = Coal Company Procedures 
August Lockout-Tagout; Hearing Conservation;  
Driving (School Bus Safety)
September Natural Gas Hazards; Fire Safety (including potential ignition sources & Fire School);  
CO Awareness; Driving (Safety Belts) 
October Hydrogen Sulfide Awareness; Hazard  
Communication; Driving (Deer/Animals);  
PCB & Hot Work
Go back to Table of Contents10EQT routinely inspects our locations to confirm compliance 
with external safety regulations as well as our own policies and 
procedures.  These inspections allow us to identify necessary 
revisions to existing policies and procedures, as well as target new initiatives to improve our safety performance.  In 2012, EQT 
initiated numerous workplace safety improvements:
For example, in 2012, EQT updated our Hot Work Permit Program 
Standard to improve our ability to proactively prevent fire incidents.   
Program enhancements included revising the hot work permit 
process, conducting refresher training, and auditing performance to the updated standard.  In 2013, EQT plans to maintain a 
heightened emphasis on this important program through continued 
training and audit validation.
Another recent addition to EQT’s safety portfolio is the Field Safety Technician (FST) Program for our Midstream Operations.  This 
program was designed to help employees take greater ownership of 
their own personal safety, as well as provide leadership expertise to others and enable employees to identify and prevent situations that 
could cause harm to themselves or those around them.  Employees 
who wish to participate must apply; once selected for the program, FSTs complete the OSHA 10-hour General Industry and the AWARE: 
Oil and Natural Gas Industry Safety Training programs.  As stewards of safety, the FSTs may:
•	 Act	as	subject	matter	experts	pertaining	to	specific 	
departmental hazards and procedures
•	 Participate	in	incident	investigations
•	 Participate	in	employee	training	and	safety	meetings•	 Conduct	inspections	and	hazard	assessments•	 Deliver	safety-related	communications
•	 Conduct	Personal	Protection	Equipment	(PPE) 	 
hazard assessments
•	 Develop	safe	job	procedures	or	job	plans	(e.g.,	tailgate 	 
safety meetings)
•	 Recognize	and	motivate	employee	safety	leadership 	 
through peer recognition
The FST program began in July 2012, and EQT expects it to result  
in meaningful contributions to the Midstream Operations’ safety 
program in 2013 and beyond.
EQT continues to implement safety initiatives to ensure that 
our employees and our contractors drive safely.  Our drilling activities result in heavy truck traffic at and near our well pads and 
several-fold increases in truck traffic in surrounding communities.  
Beginning in 2012 and continuing into 2013, EQT has instituted 
new initiatives to improve traffic safety, including behind-the-wheel 
driver training for employees, safe driver initiatives, speed restrictions, 
vehicle curfews for contractor traffic and enhanced enforcement.
In 2012, EQT experienced a decrease in its lost time accident (LTA) rate.  Our LTA rate was 0.34 incidents per every 200,000 person-
hours worked compared to a rate of 0.47 in 2011.  This is the sixth 
straight year that we’ve achieved this milestone, which puts us significantly below the industry average.
2012 W ORkPLACE  
SAFETY INITIATIVES
2012 W ORkPLACE 
SAFETY INITIATIVES DESCRIPTION
Leak Investigation 
TrainingHands-on natural gas leak  response and investigation
Lockout-Tagout  ValidationAudit and revalidate  well site procedures
Hot Work Program Update and ValidationUpdate process expectations  and validate implementation
Safe Driver Training Trailer towing, winter driving/adverse weather conditions, Department of Transportation (DOT)
Tailgate Safety Meeting1,665 meetings conducted by  front-line supervisors
Drilling Inspections “On-Site Specialists” conducted 837 inspections at drilling rigs
Leadership Safety 
Initiatives628 safety initiatives led  by managers (President,  Vice President, Director levels)
Safety Inspections/Audits678 safety inspections/audits  led by the Safety Team
Field Safety  TechniciansMidstream safety leadership program
Go back to Table of Contents11 SAFETYCONTRACTOR SAFETY
All of EQT’s operations are located within the United States, therefore 
EQT and all our contractors and their subcontractors are required 
to follow state and federal requirements for providing a safe and 
healthy workplace for employees.  The specialized nature of EQT’s field operations requires the use of numerous vendors to perform each 
aspect of our work.  In addition to keeping our own workers safe, 
EQT insists that every vendor performing work at one of our facilities maintain the same high standards for workplace safety.    
Companies that want to perform these contract services for the areas of drilling, construction, maintenance, and operations must 
agree to adhere to the EQT Contractor Safety Program and its 
companion, Contractor Safe Work Rules.  The rules and standards apply to all work performed by the employees of the contractor, as 
well as those of their subcontractors and agents.  These include:
•	 Development	and	implementation	of	safety	policies	and 	
procedures that are in compliance with all applicable 
regulations, laws, and standards for the contractor’s 
employees, subcontractors, and agents.
•	 Performance	of	all	necessary	audits	and	inspections	of	the 	
worksite and relevant premises as often as needed to ascertain whether any conditions, including those created by work performed by the contractors or others, may pose hazards to 
the contractor or others.
2012 SAFETY INDICATORS
2012 SAFETY INDICATORS PERFORMANCE RATE
Lost Time Accident (LTA) 0.34
Days Away, Restricted or  
Transferred (DART)0.78
Preventable Vehicle Accident (PVA)1.22
OSHA Recordable Rate 2.52
Absentee Rate By Region:
  Kentucky 3.17%
  Pennsylvania 1.91%
  Virginia 3.66%
  West Virginia 1.62%
Absentee Rate By Gender:
  Males 1.97%
  Females 3.01%•	 Assurance	that	all	employees	and	subcontracted	employees	of 	
the contractor have the necessary training, skills, certifications, 
tools and equipment to complete the job safely and in 
compliance with regulations.
•	 Maintenance	of	a	safe,	healthy,	and	clean	work	environment.
•	 Assurance	that	daily	Tailgate	Safety	Meetings	(TSMs)	or	similar 	
discussions on the tasks performed that day and any relevant 
safety precautions are conducted and documented.
•	 Provision	of	a	“Competent	Person”	as	defined	and	required 	 
by OSHA, who possesses the ability to recognize hazards  
on the jobsite and also has the authority to correct those hazards.  Each contractor is required to designate a  
Competent Person at every work location who is familiar  
with the site-specific hazards.
•	 Investigation	and	reporting	of	all	injuries,	incidents	with 	
property damage, and near-misses.
In 2013, EQT will be transitioning our contractor safety pre-
qualification to a third-party database platform to improve our 
contractor safety management process.  The new platform will improve our ability to expand key performance indicator 
requirements and verify contractor safety program documentation 
before qualifying a contactor to work for EQT. 
LOCAL RESPONDERS
EQT’s process improvements for responding to incidents are routinely passed on to local emergency responders.  We sponsor 
safety and awareness training that enables these responders to 
become effective partners in maintaining a safe environment for all.  
A popular example is our Well Site Awareness Program.  This 
program relays to local emergency response teams what to expect 
in an operations-related emergency, including how to reach a site or incident, any associated hazards, specific construction and 
drilling processes, site layout, completions processes (hydraulic 
fracturing), and common site terminology.
After attending the program, emergency responders have a greater 
level of comfort regarding what goes on at a well site and what 
they can expect from EQT should an incident occur.  They also leave with a better understanding of what they should, and should not, do in different scenarios and whom to contact in various situations.   
All of these initiatives, although mostly targeted to EQT  
employees and those of our vendors at each jobsite, ultimately 
serve to help create a safer environment for everyone who lives  
and works nearby.    •    No employees were based in Ohio during 2012
Go back to Table of Contents12        
Go back to Table of ContentsIn addition, EQT’s business operations are subject to an extensive 
list of federal, state and local regulations including those relating to 
environmental protection, and we actively strive to meet or exceed 
all regulatory standards.  
We understand that our stakeholders have concerns about the processes used to extract natural gas, including the potential impacts 
to the environment.  So beyond the commitment to create new jobs 
and stimulate economic growth, we are also taking the responsibility to identify and answer those important questions and concerns.ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP
EQT has a steadfast commitment to the protection of  
our environment.  We strive to conduct our business in  
a sustainable and environmentally responsible manner  
at all times — working to preserve and protect the land, 
air and water where we live and do business.
13 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPWe respect the rights and expectations of our stakeholders; we also 
accept our obligation to protect our natural resources during the 
many phases of our development and operating processes.   
With a focus on strategic prevention and risk assessment, EQT has 
safeguards in place that allow us to respond quickly and effectively 
if the unexpected happens.  And we continuously monitor our 
own experiences, and those of our counterparts in the industry, to find process improvements that contribute to our long-standing 
reputation as a responsible operator.  
Our Marcellus Operations Guiding Principles, adopted several 
years ago, are just one example of protocols established to infuse 
sustainability and achieve operational excellence in our drilling 
operations in the Marcellus Shale play.
MARCELLUS OPERATIONS GUIDING PRINCIPLES
FLAMMABLE   
ATMOSPHERESNatural gas encountered during the drilling process is vented away from the work area. During completions 
and flowback, flammable zones are established in areas where natural gas will be vented.  Natural gas liquids produced during flowback are stored in flammable zones during flowback and removed after flowback.
HIGH PRESSURE  
SYSTEMSAll equipment and components used in pressurized systems are appropriately rated and capable of operating under the maximum rated pressure.   High pressure pumps and equipment are only used when necessary  
and appropriate for the task, and are routinely tested for integrity.
PIT DESIGN   
& OPERATIONPrior to construction, potential pit locations are evaluated to establish suitability.  Pits are engineered and designed to be stable and impervious, and are inspected to establish that they are constructed as designed.  Inspections are conducted regularly to evaluate pit integrity.
WELL CONTROL We maintain a minimum of two barriers at all times between the open producing formation and the atmosphere.  A responsible person with a well-control certification from an accredited training program  
is on-site during drilling and completions.  Blowout preventers are tested prior to being placed into service,  
and remote actuators are maintained away from the rig and not tied to the rig hydraulic system.
WELL DESIGN & CONSTRUCTION Wells are designed to protect fresh groundwater and prevent methane migration.  Surface casing is installed  
and the void outside of the casing is filled with cement.  If cement circulation to the surface is not possible for  
the surface casing, we install baskets at appropriate depths and then grout the annulus to the surface  
to create a barrier between subsurface zones.
Go back to Table of ContentsMANAGING WATER RESOURCES
Water plays a major role in the successful creation of a producing 
natural gas well, and EQT takes pride in managing its use of this 
environmental resource in a responsible way so that no water 
sources are significantly affected by our activity. 
The Company obtains nearly 100% of the fresh water used for 
production activities from surface water, municipal water, or groundwater sources.  We strictly adhere to all water withdrawal 
regulations in the states where we operate to ensure that our 
withdrawal from a water source does not adversely affect the ecological and recreational uses of that source.  This is 
accomplished by installing and monitoring our own stream gauges, 
monitoring existing U.S. Geological Survey stream gauges, and using online water withdrawal tools when available.   
EQT’s goal is to further limit its water usage by routinely collecting 
nearly 100% of the water that flows back from completed wells and then reusing that water to produce new wells at other sites.    
In 2012 our production activities increased; however we withdrew 
less fresh water than in the previous year because we were able  
to use more recycled water.  
During 2012, EQT recycled 740,947 m
3 of wastewater from 
flowback water, filtered drilling water, and produced water.    
The 2012 volume of water recycled as a percentage of total  
water withdrawn was 32%, a significant increase from 2011,  
and can be attributed to recycling efforts.   
14
TOTAL FRESH W ATER WITHDRAWAL  
BY SOURCE - 2012
WATER SOURCE VOLUME
Surface water (wetlands,  
rivers, lakes and oceans)1,387,075 m3
Groundwater 22,082 m3 
Rainwater 0 m3 
Waste water from another organization 0 m3 
Municipal water or other water utilities 882,077 m3 
Total Water Withdrawn 2,291,234 m3
Total Water Recycled 740,947 m3
Fresh water by million barrel oil equivalent 
(all from natural gas production)0.040 m3/boe
• EQT fresh water withdrawals did not significantly affect water sources of any type, 
including those in designated protected areas or those having biodiversity value.
• No water sources having value/importance to local communities were  
significantly affected by EQT fresh water withdrawals, nor were any people  
or their livelihoods affected due to dependence on water resources.
To further support responsible natural gas development, EQT is 
proud to be a founding member of a new association known 
as the Center for Sustainable Shale Development (CSSD), which 
was launched in mid-2013.  The CSSD has developed 15 initial performance standards for operators that are protective of air 
quality, water resources, and climate.  These standards represent 
consensus on what is achievable and protective of human health and the environment.  Additional information can be found at 
www.sustainableshale.org.  
Go back to Table of ContentsThere were two significant increases in our total water usage that 
are worth noting.  Although still a very small percentage of our 
overall water withdrawals, EQT more than doubled the amount 
of groundwater used in 2012 compared to 2011 based on the location and timing of select production activities.   
The entire volume of groundwater used came from three 
groundwater wells operated by EQT in West Virginia.  Our use of municipal water also increased significantly in 2012, largely due to 
an increased focus on operations in Greene County, Pennsylvania, 
where the local municipal authority proved to be the best source  
for low cost, readily available water.
When water is no longer suitable for recycling or production 
purposes, we have two options: a) we can collect it and send it to treatment facilities that are licensed to properly dispose of the 
water; or b) we can send the water to state and federally permitted 
underground injection facilities for safe disposal.
15 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPPROTECTING OUR DRINkING WATER 
RESOURCES
As information about natural gas drilling becomes more widespread, 
questions arise about the impact of these processes on the water we 
drink.  EQT takes great care to protect these resources.   
In order to assess any impacts that may occur relating to drinking 
water sources, we establish a water quality baseline by sampling 
nearby groundwater sources prior to commencing any operational 
activities.  We then review and resolve any pre-existing conditions that may have existed.   
Once drilling begins, we use multiple layers of steel and cement 
casings to isolate freshwater sources from the drilling process. The 
legally-required standard of using at least three layers of steel and 
cement — known as triple casing — ensures that nothing used to stimulate the flow of natural gas from the well can migrate into the drinking water supplies.  To further assess the effects of our 
operations, after the well is complete and gas is flowing, we can 
re-sample local water sources and review the results against the initial baseline.
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING
Freshwater aquifers, the source for much of our drinking water, sit just a few hundred feet below the earth’s surface.  The process of 
hydraulic fracturing, on the other hand, occurs several thousand 
feet underground, which is far below any freshwater zone.   
EQT conducts hydraulic fracturing in accordance with state 
regulations using water recycled from previously fractured wells or 
obtained from freshwater sources. This water is mixed with sand 
VOLUME AND DISPOSITION OF PRODUCED W ATER – 2012 
LOCATION WELL TYPE VOLUME DISPOSITION METHOD
West Virginia Conventional 110,926 bbls  Injection Well: 100%
Marcellus 942,836 bbls  Injection Well: 91%
 Reused: 9%
Kentucky Conventional 25,002 bbls  Injection Well: 100%
Virginia Conventional 1,036,279 bbls  Injection Well:    100%
Pennsylvania Conventional 470 bbls  Injection Well:  90%
 Reused:   10%
Marcellus 1,531,640 bbls  Injection Well:     43%
 Reused:     57%
• All produced water is either injected or reused so EQT does not discharge any produced water to surface water, however we do flow back water to permitted, lined, above-ground 
impoundments.
• Because there is no discharge, no report standards for produced water quality are required or reported, nor does EQT measure the volume of hydrocarbon discharge in produced water.
Go back to Table of Contents16and a small percentage (less than 0.3%) of chemical additives.  
The fracturing fluid is then injected under controlled high pressure 
into triple-cased wells designed to prevent any effect on ground or 
surface water. The pressure breaks open and expands the targeted rock formation and the sand particles hold the fractures open, 
allowing natural gas to flow to the well head. 
EQT is committed to transparency in our operations — and we 
were one of the first natural gas producers to voluntarily disclose the content of the hydraulic fracturing fluid used at our individual 
well sites.  This information details the individual additives 
used when we fracture a well, and also helps our stakeholders understand why we need the additives and what impact, if any, 
they may have on our environment. 
This information is published (with monthly updates) on our EQT.
com website.  EQT is also a charter participant on FracFocus.org, 
an educational website created by the Ground Water Protection Council and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission.   
This website provides information to help stakeholders understand 
the additives and water being for natural gas development in their communities.  EQT discloses the general mixture amounts and 
explains the use of each chemical additive on both of these public 
websites.
PREVENTING AND MANAGING SPILLS
Given the large amount of fluids involved in drilling a natural gas well, EQT makes strategic fluid management and spill prevention 
a top priority.  Our Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure 
(SPCC) plans guide our implementation of rigorous training programs, inspection protocols, and secondary containment 
monitoring and repair programs for our natural gas wells and 
compressor stations.   
Each of our sites has its own specific SPCC plan to minimize the 
chance of a release and also to dictate actions to be taken in the 
event of a spill.  We conduct monthly inspections of our facilities and track the data electronically so we can make rapid repairs.  
If a spill occurs, EQT goes into action quickly, using appropriate and 
effective cleanup measures to achieve complete absorption and/or removal of the spill, as well as any affected soil.  For reported 
spills, EQT typically uses absorbent booms and pads, along with soil 
excavation, to contain and ultimately remove the contents of the spill.  Our removal and disposal of the cleanup materials follows 
prevailing federal, state and local regulatory requirements in effect 
at the time of the spill.  
EQT defines a significant spill as one requiring notification to state or federal officials.  In 2012, EQT experienced 55 reportable spills, with 
a total volume of less than 155 barrels (bbls) or 4,882 U.S. gallons.  
EQT had no hydrocarbon or non-hydrocarbon spills in 2012, either directly or by contracted third parties, and did not have a single 
reportable spill that released more than 100 bbls (3,150 gallons) into the environment. These spills were not a required disclosure in  
our 2012 Form 10-K or any other required financial statements.  
During 2012, EQT did experience a surface impoundment line 
failure at its Phoenix S well pad.  Use of the impoundment was 
discontinued and all source material was removed.  EQT worked 
closely with the appropriate state agencies throughout the  
clean-up process and the site is in the final states of remediation.
Our standard procedure is to follow each incident with an 
evaluation of the cause of the spill so we can identify and 
implement corrective action.  To prevent recurrences, we share 
these new techniques and protocols and integrate them into  
our design standards and operations.
REDUCING AIR EMISSIONS
EQT’s greenhouse gas (GHG) management program formally  
began in 2008 with the goal of helping us improve air quality in  
our communities by reducing our own greenhouse gas emissions from our production, midstream, and distribution operations.  
GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION 
INITIATIVES
PRODUCTION OPERATIONS
• Convert drill rigs from diesel to natural gas
• Reduce duration of completions in Lower Huron Shale
• Increase number of flareless completions in  
Marcellus Shale
• Directed maintenance and best management practices 
(BMPs)
•  Tubing string installation
MIDSTREAM OPERATIONS
•   Rich burn engine retrofits
• Flash tank separators in glycol dehydrators
• Instrument air
• Micro turbine generators
• Automated control systems
DISTRIBUTION OPERATIONS
• Pressure relief safety valve inspection
• Directed Inspection and Maintenance
• Pipeline upgrading/replacement
• Depressurize equipment to nearby low pressure systems
• Conversion of vehicle fleet from diesel to natural gas
• Automate shutoff of ruptured gas service lines
• Walking survey frequency optimization
Go back to Table of Contents17 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
Go back to Table of Contents18Our efforts continue to help us reduce our total estimated 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reportable GHG emissions.   
We monitor and report on specific types of air emissions that are 
relevant to our business operations and/or required by state or federal regulations. 
During 2012, our greenhouse gas emission reductions by business 
unit were:
•	 Production:	 225,604	metric	tons	CO
2e  
•	 Midstream:	 453,882	metric	tons	CO2e
•	 Distribution:	 2,015,441	metric	tons	CO2e
•	 EQT	total:	 2,694,927	metric	tons	CO2e
 
SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS  
BY TYPE AND WEIGHT – 2012
AIR EMISSION TYPE WEIGHT
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 7,390 tons
Sulfur oxides (SOx) 3.6 tons
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 580 tons
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) 235 tons
Particulate matter (PM) 120 tons
Other standard categories of air  
emissions identified in regulationsFormaldehyde  
= 146 tons
Carbon Monoxide 
(CO) = 3,354 tons
Emissions related to activities of special interest to stakeholders (e.g., oil sands, shale gas) specific 
to EQT’s shale gas production 
operations in PANOx = 1,262 tons
SOx = 1 ton
VOC = 93 tons
HAP = 8.56 tons
PM-10 and  
PM-2.5 = 90 tons
CO = 361 tons
• All data reflects required air emissions inventory submittals and have been 
expanded to include all Production and Midstream operations.  The PA shale gas 
production emissions numbers represented separately are not included in the 
total air emission quantity numbers.
• EQT gathers operational data and calculates emissions annually to comply with the emissions inventory requirements of each state.  
• Formaldehyde, although a HAP, is reported separately and is not included in the total HAP quantity.
• EQT does not measure or report the following: emissions as an intensity, air 
emissions for persistent organic pollutants, air emissions for stack and fugitive 
emissions.  There are no plans to measure or report this data in the future as 
there is no business or regulatory reason to do so.In mid-2012, EQT moved forward with its plan to use natural 
gas-powered drill rigs and completion equipment at our well sites.   
These new drill rigs are cleaner and quieter than conventional 
diesel-powered equipment, and although they cost more to build, they are much less expensive to operate.  Perhaps more importantly, 
the rigs running on natural gas emit 20% to 30% less carbon 
dioxide compare to their diesel counterparts, and have a small fraction of the emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides,  
and particulates.   
During the year, EQT displaced the use of diesel in two different 
manners.  At one location, we began operating a rig powered by liquefied natural gas (LNG); and on the other site we converted a 
rig to use “field gas,” which is unprocessed gas that came from 
one of our nearby wells.  By directly tapping into pipelines that carry gas from onsite production, we are able to eliminate the noise 
and truck traffic associated with deliveries of diesel fuel to power 
traditional rig equipment. The success of these pilot operations will 
lead to more rig conversions in 2013.
Because natural gas is a cleaner-burning alternative to carbon-rich 
fuels such as gasoline and diesel, EQT continues to successfully 
encourage its use as an alternative fuel.  In response to demand 
from fleets and individual users, we added additional pump capacity at our public-access compressed natural gas (CNG)  
fueling station in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and actively supported initiatives to expand the infrastructure needed to promote greater use of CNG as a transportation fuel in all states where EQT has 
business operations.   
Although the primary fuel sources for our fleet vehicles remain 
gasoline and diesel, we have ramped up our conversions to other 
fuels such as CNG and ethanol.  In 2012, we continued the 
conversion of our fleet to run on CNG, which has helped reduce our carbon emissions by 20% - 30% compared to the older 
gasoline and diesel fueled vehicles.  We also began work on an 
incentive program to assist our employees with the purchase of CNG vehicles for personal use.
In addition to increasing our use of CNG as a vehicle fuel from 
0.1% to 2.0% in 2012, work planning protocols helped reduce the number of miles each vehicle needed to travel and the amount of 
time they sat idling, resulting in a 4.8% reduction in CO
2 emissions.  
For employees based in traditional office environments, 
flexible work schedules and commuting options such as public 
transportation are encouraged, as is the use of web-based  
meeting services and conference calls, to further reduce the  
need for vehicle travel.
Go back to Table of ContentsRESPECTING THE LAND WE SHARE
Most of EQT’s natural gas extraction operations take place well 
below the surface, yet we maintain a strong commitment to 
protecting indigenous species, minimizing surface disruptions, and 
reclaiming the land to its original state after our active operations are complete.  We hold leases that include protected areas such as 
wetlands, national forest, state forest and Army Corps of Engineers 
property; however in 2012 EQT did not drill wells in these areas.
  
Although we try to avoid drilling in protected areas, we sometimes 
have operations that are located nearby.   As a leader in the use of 
horizontal drilling technology, EQT is able to drill multiple wells from the same pad, minimizing our impact on the land and surrounding 
environmental resources.  We can also drill directionally to extract 
gas from nearby sensitive areas, following all federal, state and local regulations and guidelines to make sure we protect plants and 
animals living on the surface.   
When we know an indigenous species may be present, we conduct 
environmental studies on and near the proposed site to identify the 
presence of that species before we drill a well or lay a pipeline.   
If the species is found, we try to avoid it and if that is not possible, we work with the appropriate agencies to create protection plans.  
In some cases, we use local resources to help identify threatened, 
endangered, or special-concerns species and resources.  If we find potential impacts, we can then coordinate with local agencies to 
develop and implement avoidance and/or mitigation measures.
19 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
EQT A CTIVE A CREAGE LEASED OR  
OWNED IN PROTECTED AREAS - 2012
STATE WETLANDS
SQ. kM FEDERAL LAND OR 
PARkS SQ. kM
Kentucky 15 911
Ohio 3 44
Pennsylvania 5 0
Virginia 14 446
West Virginia 10 78
Total 47 1,479USING ENERGY WISELY
Natural gas is EQT’s primary direct energy source for conditioning 
our building spaces for occupancy (with a small need for heating  
oil in locations where gas is not readily available).  We also use  
quite a bit of electricity for heating/cooling, lighting, and various support equipment.   
In 2012, EQT implemented a number of new initiatives to reduce 
our energy consumption.  We established an extensive preventative 
maintenance program for all of our facilities, and benchmarked 
our larger facilities against similar buildings in an effort to analyze where we stood.  We also created a management level position in 
the Company to begin identifying opportunities for improvement 
and ensure that all facilities run efficiently.   
As maintenance or renovations take place, we upgrade lighting 
fixtures, install motion sensors, use night and weekend setbacks  
to control temperature during low occupancy, and upgrade equipment to take advantage of energy efficiencies.  In 2013,  
EQT plans to start investigating options for monitoring and reporting the Company’s energy intensity.
Go back to Table of Contents20 
Go back to Table of ContentsOUR EMPLOYEES
From day one, our employees have played an integral role in 
EQT’s success as a business, and as a respected partner in the 
communities where we operate.  These talented men and women 
not only conduct the day-to-day operations of our Company,  
they play a vital role in our outreach to external stakeholders.   
As neighbors in the communities where they work, employees are 
our eyes and ears in their neighborhoods, helping us understand local concerns and also helping to influence the perceptions that 
these groups form regarding our sustainability efforts.
In a company our size, monitoring and follow-up helps to  
ensure that we are treating our employees fairly and satisfying  
the requirements of the laws and regulations that govern our 
actions as an employer operating within the United States.   EQT has numerous policies and procedures in place to make sure 
our employees are treated justly, and the related processes and 
reporting mechanisms help us monitor program implementation, make adjustments when conditions warrant a change, and 
communicate clearly with employees and their families so they 
understand all that is available to them.
As of December 2012, EQT had 1,873 employees on the payroll.   
These individuals are classified as either full-time or part-time.   
EQT does not use individual contractors nor does it supervise the work of individuals employed by others.  We do execute 
purchase agreements with various companies to provide specialized 
equipment and services at job sites and other work locations on an as-needed basis.  The contracted company is then responsible for 
hiring and supervising its own employees, as well as maintaining 
workforce data for these individuals.  Demographics for the EQT workforce are shown in the following tables.SOCIAL  
RESPONSIBILITY
21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
EQT EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS – 
2012 W ORkFORCE BY GENDER
MALE FEMALE TOTAL
Total Workforce 1,499 374 1,873
Full-time 1,496 361 1,857
Part-time 3 13 16
Non-Union 1,344 350 1,694
Union (9.6% of total workforce) 155 24 179
Minority 3.5% 2.2% 5.7%
Non-Minority 76.5% 17.8% 94.3%
Location 
Kentucky 188 10 198
Pennsylvania 813 306 1,019
Virginia 123 6 129
West Virginia 375 52 427
New Hires 169 82 251
Rate of New Hires 9% 4.4% 13.4%
Employees Leaving 147 63 210
Rate of Employees Leaving 7.8% 3.4% 11.2%
Parental Leave
Eligible 1,349 294 1,643
Not Eligible 150 80 230
Took Parental Leave in 2012 3 3 6
Returned from Parental Leave 
in 2012  
(Retention Rate)3
(100%)3
(100%)6
(100%)
Still employed 12 months after 
return (Retention Rate)3
(100%)3
(100%)6
(100%)
Go back to Table of Contents22
EQT EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS –  
2012 W ORkFORCE BY JOB C ATEGORY
SENIOR  
MANAGEMENTALL O THER  
SUPERVISORS AND 
MANAGERSEXEMPT  
PROFESSIONALS & 
MANAGERSNON-EXEMPT/
HOURLYTOTAL
Gender
   Male 0.3% 16.3% 21.3% 42.1% 80%
   Female 0.1% 3.5% 7.6% 8.8% 20%
Minority Group
   Minority 0.0% 0.5% 2.3% 3.0% 5.8%
   Non-minority 0.4% 19.3% 26.6% 47.9% 94.2%
Age Group   <30 0.0% 0.5% 5.4% 6.2% 12.1%
   30 – 50 0.1% 11.6% 16.5% 25.7% 53.9%
   >50 0.3% 7.6% 7.0% 19.1% 34.0%
EQT EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS – 
2012 TURNOVER RATES
NUMBER RATE
New Hires by Age
   <30 71 3.8%
   30 - 50 143 7.6%
   >50 37 2.0%
Employees Leaving by Age
   <30 39 2.1%
   30 - 50 102 5.4%
   >50 69 3.7%
New Hires by Location
Kentucky 6 0.3%
Pennsylvania 144 10.6%
Virginia 4 0.2%
West Virginia 43 2.3%
Employees Leaving by Location
Kentucky 26 1.4%
Pennsylvania 121 6.5%
Virginia 13 0.7%
West Virginia 50 2.7%
Go back to Table of Contents23 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYEQT offers an array of core benefits to meet the personal and 
professional needs and expectations of these employees and  
their families.  Where appropriate, we offer specialized training relevant to an employee’s position and area of responsibility.   We also provide general training in areas such as corporate ethics 
and compliance and safety.   
To help employees and their families address personal health and 
wellness issues, EQT’s “Take Charge” program offers personal health coaching, wellness information, and health management 
programs.  The Employee Assistance Program compliments Take 
Charge by providing confidential short-term counseling services and 
treatment information; as well as referrals for issues such as family and relationship concerns, elder care, money management and 
legal problems.  Since those early days in the 1880s, EQT has continued to evolve, grow and become more diverse, and so has our workforce.  As 
another of EQT’s core values, we are expanding our commitment 
to Diversity and Inclusion as a strategic component of our operating strategy.  Recognizing that recruitment and retention 
are important factors in maintaining a diverse workforce, the 
Company began exploring ways for employees to help influence EQT’s performance in these areas. Throughout 2012, a small task 
force of employees worked with members of senior management 
to identify internal issues and recommend strategies to help EQT recruit, develop and retain employees of traditionally 
underrepresented ethnicities. The first initiative, involving the 
creation of voluntary Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), was rolled out to employees in the first quarter of 2013. As a result, 
subsequent ERGs have been formed, including a Multi-Ethnic ERG, 
Women in Energy, and Parents Resource Group — with more on the horizon for the coming months.
EQT BENEFITS FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES
HEALTHCARE INSURANCE FINANCIAL LIFESTYLE
• Medical*
• Dental*
• Vision*• Accidental Death 
& Dismemberment
• Short term disability
• Long-term disability
• Business Travel  
Accident
• Life Insurance –  
employee, spouse,  children• Severance Pay
• Relocation Assistance
• 401(K) Retirement Savings with matching contributions
• Health Saving Account*
• Credit Union
• Employee Stock  Purchase
• Retirement Contribution• Paid Vacation
• Education Assistance Program
• 9/80 Work Schedule – optional
• Paid time off for Jury Duty
• Extended Unpaid Leave of Absence
• Employee Assistance Program*
• Family & Medical Leave (includes  Maternity/Paternity Leave)
• Commuter Reimbursement  Accounts
• Wellness Programs
• Computer Purchase Program
• Matching Gift Program –  
100% match up to $25,000/year
* Part-time employees are also eligible for these benefits.
Go back to Table of Contents24STAkEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
EQT identifies its stakeholder groups based on their recurring 
contact with, or interest in, the operations of our Company.   As 
with any collection of diverse entities, one size does not fit all, so 
we often customize our approaches to reaching out to stakeholders to hear their opinions, understand their concerns, and inform them 
of our activities.  Our primary stakeholder groups include:
•	 Investors
•	 Employees
•	 Communities
•	 Customers•	 Landowners/royalty	owners
•	 Elected	Officials
•		Regulators•	 Non-government	organizations	(NGOs)
•	 Non-profit	organizations	and	charities
•	 Suppliers•	 News	Media/Industry	Analysts
•	 Industry	Associations
The customers of Equitable Gas, our distribution business segment, 
constitute one of our largest stakeholders groups.  Equitable Gas 
serves more than 275,000 residential, commercial and industrial 
customers in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Kentucky.   
The public utility commission (or public service commission) in 
each state determines the geographic areas, terms of service, 
rates, and communication policies that apply to interactions with our distribution customers.  Equitable Gas adheres to those 
requirements, while maintaining an ongoing dialogue with this 
important stakeholder group. Mail, telephone, e-mail, and the Equitable Gas website are all important communications tools  
used to keep in touch with our customers.They provide information about how to use natural gas safely and efficiently, inform customers about legal and regulatory updates, 
and also issue notifications regarding local maintenance activities.  
Customers can also use the Equitable Gas web site or e-mail to ask questions or provide feedback about our services. Various survey 
instruments help us evaluate the effectiveness of these efforts in 
terms of customer satisfaction including:
•	 J.D.	Power	Residential	Natural	Gas	Customer	Survey
•	 Pennsylvania	Public	Utility	Commission 	 
customer transaction satisfaction survey
•	 Internally	conducted	post-call	surveys
•	 Ad-hoc	surveys	as	needed
The 2012 results of the Pennsylvania Public Utility survey will not 
be published until late 2013, but we do know that Equitable Gas is generally ranked in the top quartile among all Pennsylvania 
natural gas distribution companies.  In 2012 however, the utility’s 
J.D. Power score for overall customer satisfaction decreased nine points from our 2011 results.  We continue to review these survey 
results, as well as all customer inquiries and issues received via 
non-standard channels, to assess customer preferences, identify opportunities to improve our performance, prioritize projects and 
inform our business planning process.
Go back to Table of Contents25 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
EQT STAkEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT – AUDIENCES AND A CTIVITIES
STAkEHOLDER 
GROUPAPPROACHES TO ENGAGEMENT WITH EQT FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT
Investors Earnings release, SEC filings, investor teleconferences, 
investor relations contacts, annual shareholder meeting, proxy, Corporate Secretary contact listed on our websiteAt least once each quarter
Employees Print, electronic and video communications, employee staff meetings,  intranet, electronic employee newsletters, lunch and learn seminars, volunteer activities, surveys, formal reporting channels, ethics hotlineDaily
Communities Face-to face meetings with EQT community advisors
Facility and rig tours, community meetings, open  
houses, public safety communications, phone hotlines 
to report problems or provide feedback advertising, 
community relationships, philanthropic giving programs, 
sponsorships, surveys, focus groups; advertisingAccess to region-specific community advisors is available as needed or requested 
Phone Hotlines, email, corporate websites, 
Facebook and YouTube are available 24/7
Facility and rig tours, public safety 
communications, etc. scheduled upon request
Community meetings and open houses  
are scheduled several times each yearAdvertising, Focus Groups, surveys,  
sponsorships conducted as needed
Customers Business relationships, internet, customer newsletters 
and satisfaction surveys, advertising, surveys, energy 
assistance programsPhone Hotlines, email, corporate websites, 
Facebook and YouTube are available 24/7
Customer satisfaction surveys and energy 
assistance programs are offered to retail distribution customers on a defined schedule as required by regulation requirements
Landowners/ royalty ownersPersonal meetings, letters, access to company landmen, open houses, public meetingsContinuous — as needed or requested
Legislators and regulatorsPolicy discussions, Political Action Committee, frequent meetings with national and state regulators and local municipal leaders, lobbyists, membership in trade associations, surveysContinuous — as needed or requested
Non-governmen-tal organizations (NGOs)Project partnerships, reporting on environmental, economic and social topics, philanthropic giving, surveys, accessibility to dialogues, environmental assessmentsContinuous — as needed or requested
Nonprofit  organizations  and charitiesPersonal meetings, internet, access to EQT Foundation Continuous — as needed
Suppliers/ ContractorsCommercial relationships, websites, request-for-  
proposal process, training sessions, trade shows,  
chamber of commerce membershipsContinuous — as needed
News media,  industry analystsNews releases, website, phone calls, e-mail exchanges, interviews, trade shows and speaking engagements by executives and senior managersAs needed or requested
Go back to Table of Contents26EQT actively strives to engage our other stakeholders who, 
although not direct customers, also have an active interest in our 
operations and how these activities affect their lives.  Because each 
group has specific needs, interests and preferences for how we engage them, EQT has developed a number of communications 
tools to address key concerns and make sure that stakeholders  
have the information they need to evaluate our business and our 
role in their communities.
Community open houses and sponsorship of local fairs and festivals 
continue to be a popular outreach method. These forums allow 
stakeholders to informally meet our employees, ask questions or offer comments on topics that are most important to them, and 
receive immediate feedback.  
Expanding on this approach, EQT created the position of 
Community Advisor to provide a more local contact point.   
The Community Advisors, who are employees of EQT, are located in or near their assigned geographic areas and serve as a facilitator 
to help build relationships with local officials, business leaders, 
emergency responders and residents who want to interact with the Company.  Because they are in our operating communities 
on a daily basis, the community advisors are a great source of 
information that the Company can use to identify concerns before they become problems, as well as suggest ways that we can 
strengthen our own processes and procedures.  Their roles can also  
serve as community advocates, ensuring that issues reach the right person in the Company and ultimately achieve resolution. 
On a broader scale, EQT belongs to a number of civic and trade 
associations at the local, state and national level.  Our strategic involvement in these organizations enables us to share transparent 
and accurate information about our industry and the benefits of 
natural gas and related services.  The participation of our employees in these organizations, often in leadership roles, also enables us 
to add our knowledge and experience to the development of best 
practices for operational activities and stakeholder engagement that can be used across the industry.
EQT STAkEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT – 
ADDRESSING CONCERNS
TOPIC/CONCERN RESPONSE METHODS
What’s involved 
in drilling a well?Videos describing the process posted  
to YouTube: How We Develop a Well; 
Addressing Our Neighbors Concerns – Well Safety; EQT Horizontal Drilling animation
What’s in the 
fracking fluid?Fluid compositions for each well posted to www.eqt.com and www.fracfocus.com
  
How do I get help with heating bills? Advertising; partnerships with community and social service agencies; information assistance via call center  
and on www.equitablegas.com 
Employment  Opportunities Job openings posted on www.eqt.com and other major job sites; participations in college recruiting and regional job fairs
Safety Regular meetings with municipal leaders, 
fire departments, EMS managers
Published EQT Guiding Principals at  
www.eqt.com/production/principles.aspx Information and contacts posted on  
www.eqt.com
Investor inquiries Information posted at http://ir.eqt.com; 
quarterly earning calls and transcripts 
Landowner  
RelationsPersonal meetings, letters, direct access  
to company landmen, open houses,  
public meetings 
Information and contacts posted on  
www.eqt.com
Videos describing the process posted 
to YouTube:  Addressing Our Neighbors Concerns – Land;  Addressing Our Neighbors Concerns – Noise; How We Develop a Well
Land and Water preservationVideos describing the process posted to YouTube:  Addressing Our Neighbors Concerns – Land; Addressing Our Neighbors Concerns – Water; How We 
Develop a Well 
Pipeline Safety Video describing the process posted to 
YouTube:  Addressing Our Neighbors Concerns – Pipeline Safety
Emissions Video describing the process posted to 
YouTube:  How We Develop a Well
Roads/Noise/
Municipality concernsRegion-specific Community Advisors maintain regular contact with township and municipal authorities to concerns 
raised by local residents about  
our operations
Go back to Table of Contents27 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYCOMMUNITY INVESTMENT
Since the launch of Equitable Gas Company in 1888, social 
responsibility has sustained EQT as a vital asset in the regions where we operate.  We believe that this commitment helps provide 
us with a social license to operate, so we work hard to integrate 
it into all aspects of our business.  Our employees are all located in the United States, and we strive to hire locally whenever the 
necessary skill sets are available.  We extend this effort to our 
supply chain, going so far as to help local companies partner with 
our larger vendors to gain industry experience.  We also provide 
substantial support to local nonprofit and charitable organizations that work hard to improve the quality of life for those living near 
our operations.   
In 2012, EQT’s financial investments in our communities totaled 
more than $4.9 million.  The EQT Foundation, a separate 501(c)(3) 
organization created from a donation by the Company in 2003, 
awarded almost $3 million of that amount to support programing in Education, Arts & Culture, Environment, and Community —  
areas of mutual importance to EQT and our various stakeholders  
in the communities where we operate in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, Kentucky and Virginia.   
In Pennsylvania, the Company awarded an additional $1.1 million 
to support public school education via the state’s Educational 
Improvement Tax Credit (EITC) program.  Across our five-state 
footprint, EQT contributed $208,100 to local fire departments,  
food banks, and other community-based charities, as well as $600,175 to sponsor fairs, festivals and various community  
events in counties where we have a regional headquarters or  
active field operations.  EQT also supplies in-kind support through company-endorsed employee volunteerism through service  
on committees or governance boards of local non-profit 
organizations and associations.
EQT COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS – 
2012
INVESTMENT  
TYPEEQT  
CORPORATIONEQT  
FOUNDATION
PA Educational  Improvement Grants$1,146,666
Local giving  (PA, WV, KY and VA)  $208,100
Sponsorships & other community events(PA, WV, KY and VA)$600,175
Grants and  Contributions(PA, OH, WV, KY and VA)        $2,968,000
SAMPLING OF COMMUNITY F AIRS, 
FESTIVALS AND SPONSORSHIPS 
SUPPORTED BY EQT IN 2012 
ORGANIzATION LOCATION
Dickenson County Fair VA
Doddridge County Fair WV
EQT Energy Classic  
(tri-state high school basketball 
tournament – men and women) PA, KY,WV
EQT Pittsburgh Three  Rivers RegattaPA
Greene County Fair PA
Guernsey County Fair OH
Jamboree at the Mill WV
Knott County Gingerbread Festival KY
Mountain Heritage Festival KY
At EQT, we work hard to help our communities.  
That’s why we are proud to bring the EQT  
Energy Classic to Canonsburg in Washington County.  As one of the largest natural gas  
producers in the Appalachian Basin and a  
neighbor in downtown Pittsburgh, we believe  
in giving back to the land, the rivers, and  
people who share them with us. Basketball at  
the Canon-Mac Tip-Off is just one of the many 
ways EQT is bringing energy to the region.
eqt.comWhere energy meets community.
At EQT, our commitment to community 
runs deep. As a true Appalachian  
company and one of the largest natural gas producers in the Appalachian Basin, 
we are proud to return as sponsor of  
the EQT Craft Bazaar during the 2012 Hillbilly Days celebration. We look forward 
to helping this region grow as a source 
for clean, abundant and environmentally 
responsible energy, and to helping our 
communities reap the rewards.Where energy meets community.
eqt.com
At EQT, our commitment to community runs deep.  As one 
of the largest natural gas producers in the Appalachian 
Basin and a neighbor in downtown Pittsburgh, we  believe 
in giving back to the land, the rivers, and the people who 
share them with us.  We are deeply committed to protect-
ing the environment, operating in a safe and responsible 
manner, and improving the quality of life in southwestern 
Pennsylvania.  We are also proud to return as sponsor of the 
EQT Pittsburgh Three Rivers Regatta, one of the region’s 
premiere summer events, and invite you to join us for a 
fun-filled celebration of America’s independence.Where energy meets community.
Visit us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/EQTCorporation
Go back to Table of Contents28
SAMPLING OF GRANTS AWARDED BY THE EQT F OUNDATION IN 2012
ORGANIzATION AMOUNT PURPOSE
American Heart Association (PA and WV) $146,162 CPR Training for middle school students in select counties
Belfry Volunteer Fire Department (KY) $50,000 Purchase truck to haul the department’s ATV Rope Rescue Trailer
Carnegie Museum of Art (PA) $130,000 Underwrite the Impressionism Exhibit
Guernsey County Fireman’s Association (OH) $23,335 Support program to help local first responders assist with   
hazardous materials incidents
Nine Mile Run Watershed Association (PA) $60,000 Support watershed protection and urban ecology projects in  
the watershed
Pittsburgh Children’s Museum (PA) $125,000 Underwrite rebuild of the Interactive Water Exhibit
University of Kentucky (KY) $50,000 Robinson Scholars Program 
WQED Multimedia (PA and WV) $90,000 Sponsor annual PBS Kids Go Writers Contest for K-3 students in selected states
WV Students of Excellence (WV) $78,230 Award college scholarship to one student in every county of the state
PUBLIC POLICY AND  
POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT
As a publically traded organization, EQT governs its activities 
by, and fully complies with, all U.S. laws and regulations that 
oversee public policy and political engagement for companies like 
ours.  We support federal, state and local policies that promote stable investment climates for the exploration, production and 
transportation of natural gas. These include policies governing 
environmental protection, taxes, natural gas production and transportation, as well as expanding the use of natural gas in the 
transportation, manufacturing and electricity generation sectors.EQT’s political engagement takes on many forms.  As a corporation, 
we belong to various business and industry trade groups that 
allocate a portion of our membership dues to lobbying activities;  
we pay these dues from corporate treasury dollars.  We’ve also  
used corporate dollars to support candidates for, and members of the Virginia Legislature, subject to the campaign finance laws 
of that state.  In 2012, EQT added contributions to memberships in the Democratic Governors Association and the Republican 
Governors Association, both of which are organized under Section 
527 of the Internal Revenue Code.   
As individuals, EQT employees participate in the political process 
on a strictly voluntary basis. They provide financial and in-kind 
contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions through Political Action Committees (PACs) including the EQT 
Employees Pennsylvania State PAC and the EQT Employees Federal 
PAC. The Pennsylvania State PAC is primarily funded through transfers from the Federal PAC.
All of these contributions were made in compliance with the laws 
and regulations of each jurisdiction of the Company’s business operations, including all U.S. federal and state campaign finance 
laws.  Political contributions for our Equitable Gas subsidiary are 
included in EQT’s political spending reports.  
In 2012, total domestic political spending from the two EQT 
employee PACs and directly from EQT Corporation totalled 
$191,150.  There were no financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, or related institutions outside the  
United States.
Go back to Table of Contents29 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Go back to Table of Contents30
Go back to Table of ContentsIn 2012, EQT achieved net income of $184.4 million.  Although 
lower than our 2011 results, there are a number of highlights  
worth noting:
•	 Record	annual	production	sales	volumes	of	258.5	Bcfe; 	 
33% higher than 2011
•	 Record	Marcellus	sales	volumes	of	150.6	Bcfe;	85%	higher 	 
vs. 2011
•	 Record	gathered	volumes	of	335.4	TBtu;	30%	higher	vs.	2011
•	 Year-end	proved	reserves	increased	by	12%	to	6.0	Tcfe
•	 Completed	EQT	Midstream	Partners,	LP	initial	public	offering	(IPO)
•	 Announced	agreement	to	sell	EQT’s	gas	utility,	Equitable 	 
Gas Company
RESERVES AND PRODUCTION
EQT’s involvement in the development and production of natural 
gas reserves in different environments is a major factor in our 
economic impact.  We report our reserves and production activities 
in financial statements submitted to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual Form 10-K.   The data is calculated in accordance with SEC regulations and the 
requirements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.  For 
2012, all EQT operations took place onshore within the states of Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, Kentucky, and Virginia.  ECONOMIC  
IMPACT
Of all the components that drive EQT’s integrated 
sustainability, the financial impact our Company has on our employees, shareholders and all of the other stakeholders we touch, is certainly significant.    While our financial results are impressive, the direct  
and indirect economic boost EQT provides to local economies is substantial.  
31 ECONOMIC IMPACT
EQT kEY FINANCIAL  
INDICATORS – 2012
FINANCIAL INDICATOR 2012 RESULTS
Operating Revenue $1,641,608,000
Operating Expenses $1,171,080,000
Operating Income $470,528,000
Dividends paid to shareholders $131,803,000
Taxes paid to the United States  
government (including state  
and local taxing entities)$27,605,000
Net Income $183,395,000
2012 Employee Wages + Benefits  $368,933,520
Community Investments
EQT Foundation Grants $2,968,000
EQT Corporate Contributions $1,954,941
Go back to Table of ContentsLOCAL ECONOMIC IMPACT
As of December 31, 2012, EQT employed 1,873 employees  
with an annual payroll exceeding $283 million before benefits.   
The Company paid more than $13.4 million in state and local 
wage-related taxes, with much of that being returned to our operating areas.  Our operations supported more than 9,100 direct 
and indirect jobs and contributed about $959 million in economic 
value across the states where we operated.
EQT’s positive indirect impact on local economies takes many forms:
•	 Every	direct	EQT	job	supports	1.82	jobs	in	the	broader	economy
•	 The	wages	of	our	employees	and	service	providers	have	a	ripple 	
effect on the broader economy because these wages are used 
to buy goods and services
32
EQT ESTIMATED PROVED RESERVES & PRODUCTION BY  
RESOURCE TYPE AND OPERATING ENVIRONMENT – 2012 
(BCFE) MARCELLUS HURON* CBM TOTAL
Proved Developed 1,072 995 761 2,798
Proved Undeveloped 3,206 − − 3,206
Total Proved Reserves 4,278 965 761 6,004
• EQT includes the Lower Huron, Cleveland, Berea sandstone and other Devonian age formations, except the Marcellus, in its Huron play.  Also included in the Huron 
play is 620 Bcfe of reserves from non-shale formations accessed through vertical wells. This data is consistent with our 2012 Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
•	 Royalty	payments	we	make	to	our	recipients	also	have	a 	
ripple effect on the economy as they provide resources to fuel 
additional consumer spending
•	 Through	our	supply	chain,	EQT	created	jobs	in	various	related 	
industries that may not exist without our business activities
•	 Local	businesses	that	provide	products	and	services	to	EQT 	 
make their own supply chain purchase and hire employees  
who in turn spend their salaries and wages throughout the  
local and state economies
To further demonstrate the contributions that EQT’s operations 
make to our communities, the Pennsylvania Economy League of 
Greater Pittsburgh conducted several analyses to estimate the 
economic impact of our operations, our capital expenditures and our royalty payments.  There is overlap between the analyses so 
EQT POSITIVE ECONOMIC IMPACT – 2012 
(Millions of dollars, unless noted)
 
PENNSYLVANIA WEST VIRGINIA kENTUCkY VIRGINIA TOTAL
EQT Employees (#) 1,119 427 198 129 1,873
Payroll & Benefits $263.5 $64.1 $25.6 $15.7 $368.9
State & local taxes $8.6 $3.1 $1.1 $0.6 $13.4
Ancillary job creation (#) 4,050 795 417 282 5,544
Overall economic value added $814 $149 $63 $47 $1,073
Capital Expenditures $682 $482 $60 $93 $1,317
Jobs Created As A Result (#) 4,874 3,155 485 670 9,183
ECONOMIC IMPACT T OTAL $601 $257 $32 $69 $959
Go back to Table of Contents33 ECONOMIC IMPACTthe figures should not be added together, as this may significantly 
overstate EQT’s effect on local economies.
Beyond its corporate philanthropy and other community 
investments, EQT supports severance taxes and impact fees 
imposed by state legislatures to compensate local communities  
that are affected by active drilling operations.  In addition to 
working with landowners to remediate and restore the land to  
its original condition after drilling is complete, we invest millions  
of dollars each year to improve local roads and infrastructure affected by our activities.
EQT is subject to the rules, regulations, policies and procedures 
mandated by the various states and local governing bodies where 
ECONOMIC IMPACT OF EQT OPERATIONS  
ON T OTAL V ALUE ADDED – 2012
LOCATION DIRECT EFFECT INDIRECT EFFECT INDUCED EFFECT TOTAL EFFECT
Kentucky $35,102,366 $14,113,869 $14,112,572 $63,328,807 
Pennsylvania $450,796,545 $170,241,078 $193,202,538 $814,240,161 
Virginia $20,757,696 $15,876,161 $10,606,100 $47,239,957 
West Virginia $90,728,846 $28,627,568 $29,461,261 $148,817,674 
TOTAL  $597,385,453 $288,858,676 $247,382,471 $1,073,626,599 
• Direct Effect represents direct spending by EQT on payroll, goods and service, and construction
• Indirect Effect represents the spending of companies in the EQT supply chain for their own purchases and to hire employees 
• Induced Effect represents the impact of employees of EQT, and the companies in our supply chain, as they use their salaries and wages to purchase goods and services from 
other businesses for personal consumption
ECONOMIC IMPACT OF EQT C APITAL  
EXPENDITURES ON T OTAL V ALUE ADDED – 2012
DIRECT EFFECT INDIRECT EFFECT INDUCED EFFECT TOTAL EFFECT
Kentucky $12,482,455 $14,037,331 $5,835,924 $32,355,710 
Pennsylvania $286,877,643 $200,485,821 $113,149,046 $600,512,510 
Virginia $29,944,021 $21,126,311 $17,662,689 $68,733,021 
West Virginia $122,445,185 $90,595,019 $44,033,813 $257,074,016 
TOTAL  $451,749,304 $326,244,482 $180,681,472 $958,675,257 
•    Total Value Added is comprised of Labor Income, Property Owner Income, and Indirect Business Taxeswe operate; therefore, our activities regarding the provision of  
new access to energy are limited.  Because we operate solely within 
the United States, most of the infrastructure needed is already in 
place within our communities.  Our subsidiary, Equitable Gas, is required to provide access to natural gas service within its assigned 
geographic footprint, and routinely conducts maintenance activities 
on this infrastructure.  This obligation to serve conflicts with efforts to reduce long-term dependency on Equitable Gas as a provider 
of energy services for our customers.  Regulating bodies in each 
state where we serve utility customers also determine the rates, investments and services related to providing access to energy 
within their respective jurisdictions, including the creation of 
cooperatives or other new sources of access.
Go back to Table of ContentsEXPANDING LOCAL CONTENT  
VIA THE SUPPLY CHAIN
EQT strives to award procurement contracts locally whenever 
possible because we understand the socio-economic value of 
buying local to enhance indigenous economies.  We define local as 
the five states where EQT currently conducts its operational activities.
We actively seek help from national and regional councils to identify 
local bidders; and after careful consideration through our selection 
process, we aim to choose local suppliers if all other factors are equal.  Criteria that influence EQT supplier selection include:
•	Safety – Safe and environmentally friendly operations are 
imperatives at EQT. To enforce these essentials, suppliers must be approved by our Safety Department, as applicable to the 
good or service.  
•	Value – We place significance on the overall value that 
suppliers offer. Suppliers who differentiate their offerings 
from their competitors through increased value merit greater 
consideration.                                                                                                                                  
•	Price – In most cases, lower supplier costs create a competitive 
advantage for themselves because it enables us to achieve cost-
savings that impact our bottom line, increases shareholder value for our investors, and positions us to potentially pass these cost 
savings on to our customers.                                                                                                                                      
•	Quality – As we strive to increase our overall quality to better 
serve our customers in the communities we operate, we expect 
best-in-class supply chain performance to mirror this pledge.                                                                                                                                         
•	Delivery – On-time delivery is a critical measurement of 
consideration to avoid expensive operational delays.
ECONOMIC IMPACT OF EQT ROYALTY 
PAYMENTS ON EMPLOYMENT AND 
TOTAL V ALUE ADDED – 2012
INDUCED 
EMPLOYMENT  
IMPACT 
(NUMBER OF JOBS)TOTAL V ALUE  
ADDED TO THE 
STATE ECONOMY
 (2012 DOLLARS)
Kentucky 1,778 $113,829,910
Pennsylvania 2,853 $223,630,207
Virginia 1,094 $87,364,875
West Virginia 2,082 $131,515,714 
TOTAL 7,807 $556,340,706
• Both full- and part-time jobs are included
• Total Value Added is comprised of Labor Income, Property Owner Income,  
and Indirect Business TaxesTo foster development of diverse and/or local suppliers, EQT 
participates in local and regional opportunity fairs and events. These 
venues often target smaller businesses to identify qualified bidders 
who may be able to work directly with us, as well as to promote subcontracting opportunities with our prime suppliers. To further 
encourage these first tier suppliers to consider local vendors, we 
have enhanced our standard procurement process to include:
•	Bidding Process and RFP Language – To encourage local 
supplier utilization, during our solicitation process we include 
language in our RFPs that strongly encourage prime suppliers 
to seek out and include diverse businesses as part of their proposed solution. All bidders must complete and attach a 
subcontracting form with the proposal. The inclusion of diverse 
companies, most of which are local, will be evaluated as part of the review of their proposal.  
•	Tier 2 Program – In our efforts to promote local spend and diverse supplier utilization, our Procurement Department asks 
our top suppliers to provide us with their monthly spend with 
diverse subcontractors which included many local suppliers.   In support of second tier efforts to identify and utilize products 
and services from local or diverse suppliers, we coordinate 
meetings with our rime suppliers, our buyers and various local firms.  
•	Procurement Value Drivers – To encourage diverse supplier 
utilization and to ensure accountability, we actively track and 
report the number of diverse suppliers, aggregate spend and 
percentage of diverse spend. The majority of  
diverse firms used were local.
In 2012, EQT spent 49% of our procurement budget with local vendors compared to 37% in 2011.  We also used more than 100 first tier diversity suppliers We do not; however, limit our 
support to companies that are directly meeting a current business 
need.  EQT has conducted educational seminars with various small business organizations to help their members build capacity.  We 
also worked closely with local and minority companies that have 
performed successfully to find opportunities to expand the amount of work they do for us.  As these local firms build capacity and are 
considered for larger projects, they can grow their own workforces 
and increase their purchases, adding to the positive ripple effect on their local economy.
34
Go back to Table of Contents35 ECONOMIC IMPACT
Go back to Table of ContentsEQT used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines 
with the Oil & Gas Sector Supplement, which provide a 
recommended framework and indicators for reporting.   
We are reporting at a self-checked application level of B.   The GRI indicators and EQT’s responses to them are located in 
the following tables.  More information on the GRI Guidelines  
and application levels is available at www.globalreporting.org.GLOBAL
REPORTING  
INITIATIVECONTENT INDEX
36
Go back to Table of ContentsPROFILE DISCLOSURES
1. Strategy and Analysis
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization
 Fully Reported
 See “Message from the CEO.”
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities
 Fully Reported
See “About EQT” section of this report.
EQT Corporation operates solely within the United States of America, so our business operations are subject to various U. S. federal, state 
and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations pertaining to various sustainability issues.  Refer to EQT’s 2012 Form 10-K (pages 115-116, 105-106), for a more detailed discussion of key impacts. 
Various events and circumstances can present risks and opportunities to our business. See EQT’s 2012 Form 10-K (pages 15-23) for more 
discussion about these events and circumstances.
EQT does not establish specific targets for sustainability performance — instead we evaluate these issues as part of our overall 
performance management. We also do not have governance mechanisms in place to specifically manage sustainability risk and opportunities; however, many aspects of sustainability risks and opportunities are the responsibility of the Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee of the EQT Board of Directors. Additional information about this committee and its responsibilities can be found at http://ir.eqt.com/governance.cfm.
 2. Organizational Profile
37 GRI CONTENT INDEX2.1 Name of the organization
 Fully Reported
 EQT Corporation.
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services
 Fully Reported
 See “About EQT” section of this report.
2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures
 Fully Reported
 See “About EQT” section of this report.
2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters
 Fully Reported
 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. United States of America.
 
2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically 
relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report
 Fully Reported
 See “About EQT” section of this report.
Go back to Table of Contents382.6 Nature of ownership and legal form
 Fully Reported
 See “About EQT” section of this report.
 
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries)
 Fully Reported
 See “About EQT” section of this report.
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization
 Fully Reported
 See “About EQT” section of this report.
Also refer to EQT’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31. 2012 for a complete description of the company’s operations.  
This document is available on EQT’s website at http://ir.eqt.com under SEC Filings, or at www.sec.gov. 
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership
 Fully Reported
See “About EQT” section of this report.
Changes in share capital or other financial indicators may be found in EQT’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012.   
This document is available on EQT’s website at http://ir.eqt.com under SEC Filings, or on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.  
 
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period
 Fully Reported
Social: Top Workplaces in Pittsburgh - 2012.
 3. Report Parameters 
3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided
 Fully Reported
 Calendar year January 1, 2012 – December 31, 2012.
 
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any)
 Fully Reported
 December 2012.
3.3  Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)
 Fully Reported
 Annual.
3.4  Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents and joint ventures
 Fully Reported
 Natalie Cox
 Corporate Director, Communications
 EQT Corporation
 625 Liberty Avenue, Suite 1700
 Pittsburgh, PA 15222
 United States of America
Go back to Table of Contents39 GRI CONTENT INDEX3.5  Process for defining report content 
 Fully Reported
 See the “About This Report” section of this report.
 
3.6  Boundary of the report.  See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance
 Fully Reported
 See the “About This Report” section of this report.
 The report covers all EQT Corporation headquarters activities, and the company’s three wholly-owned business segments:  
Production, Midstream and Distribution (Equitable Gas).
 For indicators where reporting data is not completely available, this is described within the individual disclosure.
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope)
 Fully Reported
 On July 12, 2012, EQT Midstream Partners, LP (NYSE:EQM) completed its initial public offering (IPO). EQT Corporation received cash and retained a 57.4% limited partner interest and a 2% general partner interest. EQT Midstream Partners results are consolidated in the EQT Corporation financial results; however this report does not include the activities of this organization.
3.8  Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 
 Fully Reported
 Ownership share, unless otherwise noted.  In 2012, EQT held 100% ownership in all entities included in Profile Indicator 3.6.
3.9  Data measurement techniques and the basis of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report.  Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols
 Fully Reported
 See the “About this Report” section of this report. Our responses are consistent with the GRI Indicator Protocols.
3.10  Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement
 Fully Reported
 There have been no restatements of information provided in earlier reports.
3.11  Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report
 Fully Reported
 There have been no significant changes in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in this report compared to  
 earlier reports.
3.12  Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report
 Fully Reported
 Included in this table – the GRI Content Index.
3.13  Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 
 Fully Reported
 We have conducted a self-assessment of the report. We will not submit the 2012 report for external self-assurance.
Go back to Table of Contents44.1  Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, 
such as setting strategy or organizational oversight
 Fully Reported
 See the “About EQT” section of this report.
 EQT governance structure, committees and responsibilities can be found at http://ir.eqt.com/governance.cfm.
4.2  Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer
 Fully Reported
 The Chair of the EQT Board of Directors also serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of EQT Corporation.
4.3  For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members in the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members
 Fully Reported
 See the “About EQT” section of this report.
 For a director to be considered an “Independent Director,” the EQT Board must affirmatively determine annually that he or she has no material relationship with the Company (directly, or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the Company). This determination shall comply with the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. Additional information may be found in the EQT Corporate Governance Guidelines at http://ir/eqt/com/governance.cfm.
4.4  Mechanism for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 
 Fully Reported
 Shareholders can contact EQT Corporation’s Board of Directors at the following address:
Nicole King, Esq.
Corporate SecretaryEQT Corporation625 Liberty Avenue, Suite 1700Pittsburgh, PA 15222United State of America
Shareholders may submit concerns, recommendations or direction anonymously or confidentially by postal mail.  Contact may also be 
initiated online at http://ir.eqt.com/contactboard.cfm.
Communications are directed to the Chair of the Corporate Governance Committee.Employees may use the ethics hotline, anonymously, if desired. EQT does not have a formal representation body for employees to 
provide recommendations to the highest governing body, so no sustainability topics were raised through this mechanism.
4.5  Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure  
 arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance)
 Fully Reported
Description of general linkages is found in the annual Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Specific details, 
including linkages between compensation and EQT’s financial, social and environmental performance are defined by individual 
employment agreements for senior managers and executives, which are confidential.
Since January 2012, all employees have at least one personal value driver linking them to the company’s Corporate Responsibility 
objectives as they relate to each individual’s position in the company. This value driver has a direct impact on personal compensation at all levels of the organization.
 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement
40
Go back to Table of Contents4.6  Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided
 Fully Reported
See EQT Corporate Governance Committee Charter at http://ir.eqt.com/governance.cfm.
4.7  Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its   
 committees, including any consideration of gender and other indications of diversity
 Fully Reported
 See EQT Corporate Governance Committee Charter at http://ir.eqt.com/governance.cfm.
4.8  Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and   
 social performance and the status of their implementation
 Fully Reported
See the “About EQT” section of this report.
EQT’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted at http://ir.eqt.com/governance.cfm.Separately, the EQT Foundation’s mission, found at http://www.eqt.com/commInit/foundation/mission.aspx, addresses the social, 
economic and environmental goals for the organization’s philanthropic activities on behalf of EQT.
In 2012, EQT began drafting formal mission, vision and core value statements to help guide our economic, environmental and social 
performance. These internally developed statements continue to evolve.
4.9  Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles
 Fully Reported
The Board of Directors of EQT Corporation (the “Company”) sets high standards for the Company’s employees, officers and directors. 
Implicit in this philosophy is the importance of sound corporate governance. It is the duty of the Board of Directors to serve as a prudent fiduciary for shareholders and to oversee the management of the Company’s business. 
To fulfill its responsibilities and to discharge its duty, the Board of Directors follows the procedures and standards that are set forth in the 
guidelines found at http://ir.eqt.com/governance.cfm.
EQT’s  Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee Charter defines specific procedures and responsibilities of the committee 
members to review, assess performance and make recommendations to EQT management and the Board of Directors regarding the Company’s compliance with laws, regulations, policies, programs and practices with regard to environmental, health, safety and other sustainability matters.
The Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee is required to perform each of its goals and responsibilities at least annually, 
but more often if this Committee shall determine it to be necessary or appropriate.  
4.10  Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance
 Fully Reported
 Included in response to indicator 4.9.
4.11  Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addresses by the organization
 Fully Reported
 EQT meets or exceeds federal, state and local government regulations regarding our operations. We go to great lengths to protect water, air and land in the areas where we operate.  Our spill prevention plans lead the industry, we measure and assess our emissions and continually look for new technologies and processes for reducing those emissions, and we work with property owners to restore the land to its original condition after our operations are complete.  
41 GRI CONTENT INDEX
Go back to Table of Contents424.12  Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 
subscribes or endorses
 Fully Reported
 EQT has not endorsed or subscribed to any externally developed charters, principles or other initiatives in 2012, but continues to  evaluate opportunities to develop these relationships, where appropriate, in the future.
4.13  Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations  
 in which the organization:  
 •  Has positions in governance bodies;
 •  Participates in projects or committees;
 •  Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or 
 •  Views membership as strategic
 Fully Reported
 EQT maintains corporate memberships in the following organizations:
• Allegheny Conference on Community and Economic Development (ACCED)
• American Gas Association (AGA)
• America’s Natural Gas Alliance (ANGA)
• Institute for Gas Drilling Excellence (IGDE)
• Interstate Natural Gas Association (INGA)
• Kentucky Industrial Utility Customers  (KUIC)
• Kentucky Oil & Gas Association (KOGA)
• Ohio Oil & Gas Association (OOGA)
• Marcellus Shale Coalition (MSC)
• Pennsylvania Business Council (PBC)
• Pennsylvania Independent Oil & Gas Association (PIOGA)
• Southern Gas Association
• Virginia Oil & gas Association (VOGA)
• West Virginia Oil & Natural Gas Association (WVONGA)
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce
• Pennsylvania Chamber of Commerce
• Kentucky Chamber of Commerce
• Virginia Chamber of Commerce
• West Virginia Chamber of Commerce
• Dickenson County Chamber of Commerce
• Harrison County Chamber of Commerce
• Southeast Kentucky Chamber of Commerce (formerly Pike County Chamber of Commerce)
• Other local Chambers of Commerce in communities where EQT has active operations
EQT employees are active participants in the governance of the organizations to which the company belongs, often serving as chair of key committees or subcommittees. Depending upon the structure of the association, these chair positions may be considered part of the governance body.
In their roles as active participants on association committees and projects, EQT employees speak at industry conferences and conven-
tions, address the public and/or media, and represent the industry in testimony before government or other regulatory bodies.
EQT routinely provides substantive funding and in kind support to these organizations beyond routine membership dues to support advo-
cacy, educational outreach, scientific research and public awareness efforts.
EQT views all of these memberships as strategic components of its efforts to engage stakeholders, develop and implement best practices, 
and encourage financial, social and environmental sustainability by members of the industry.
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organizations contents
 Fully Reported
 See the “Social Responsibility – Stakeholder Engagement” section of this report.
Go back to Table of Contents DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMAs)
 Disclosure on Management Approach EC
Economic Performance 
Partially Reported
 See the “Economic Impact” section of this report.
 
Market presence, including local content Partially Reported
See the “Economic Impact” section of this report.
Indirect economic impacts 
Partially Reported
See the “Economic Impact” section of this report.
Reserves 
Partially Reported
See the “Economic Impact” section of this report. 
Disclosure on Management Approach EN 
Energy 
Partially Reported
See the “Environmental Stewardship” section of this report.
 
43 GRI CONTENT INDEX4.15  Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage
 Fully Reported
 See the “Social Responsibility – Stakeholder Engagement” section of this report.
4.16  Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group
 Fully Reported
 See the “Social Responsibility – Stakeholder Engagement” section of this report.
4.17  key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has  
responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting
 Fully Reported
 See the “Social Responsibility – Stakeholder Engagement” section of this report.
 All engagement activity occurs as a normal part of EQT business activity. None was undertaken specifically as part of this report.
Go back to Table of Contents44Water
Partially Reported
See the “Environmental Stewardship” section of this report.
Ecosystem services including biodiversity
Partially Reported
See the “Environmental Stewardship” section of this report.
Emissions, effluents and waste
Partially Reported
See the “Environmental Stewardship” section of this report.
 
Compliance
Partially Reported
See the “Environmental Stewardship” section of this report.
Transport
Partially Reported
See the “Environmental Stewardship” section of this report.
 Disclosure on Management Approach LA 
Employment 
Partially Reported
See the “Social Responsibility – Our Employees” section of this report. 
Labor/management relations
Partially Reported
See the “Social Responsibility – Our Employees” section of this report.
Occupational health and safety
Partially Reported
See the “Safety” section of this report, and performance indicators LA6, LA7, LA8 and LA9 in this Content Index.
Training and Education
Partially Reported
See performance indicators LA11 and LA12 in this Content Index.
Diversity and equal opportunity
Partially Reported
See the “Social Responsibility – Our Employees,” “About EQT” and “Economic Impact” sections of this report.
Go back to Table of Contents45 GRI CONTENT INDEXDisclosure on Management Approach HR
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Partially Reported
See performance indicator HR5 in this Content Index.
Disclosure on Management Approach SO
Local communities
Partially Reported
See the “Social Responsibility” section of this report and performance indicator OG11 in this Content Index.
Public policy
Partially Reported
See the “Social Responsibility” section of this report.
Anti-competitive behavior
Partially Reported
See performance indicator SO7 in this Content Index.
Compliance
Partially reported
See performance indicator SO8 in this Content Index
Involuntary resettlement
Partially Reported
See performance indicator OG12 in this Content Index.
Disclosure on Management Approach PR
Product and service labeling
Partially Reported
See performance indicator PR5 in this Content Index.
Marketing communications
Partially reported
See the “Social Responsibility” section of this report and performance indicator PR6 in this Content Index.
Go back to Table of Contents PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - ECONOMIC
  
Economic Performance 
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other 
community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments
 Fully Reported
 See the “Economic Impact” section of this report.
 Market Presence
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally, based suppliers at significant locations of operations
 Fully Reported
 See the “Social Responsibility” and “Economic Impact – Expanding Local Content via the Supply Chain” sections of this report.
 Indirect Economic Impacts
EC8   Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement
 Fully Reported
  See the “Economic Impact” section of this report.
EC9  Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts
 Fully Reported
 See the “Economic Impact – Local Economic Impact” section of this report.
 
OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production
 Fully Reported
 See the “Economic Impact – Reserves and Production” section of this report.
 Energy 
EN1 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source
 Fully Reported
 See the “Environmental Stewardship – Using Energy Wisely” section of this report.  
 EQT facilities used 20,029,000,000,000 joules of direct energy in 2012, mostly natural gas (very limited use of heating oil).  
 EQT’s vehicle fleet used 275,114.7 gigajoules (2,059,893 gallons or gas gallon equivalents) of direct energy in 2012. 
 EQT has no oil/gasoline refineries or petrochemical operations, so it has no energy intensities to report. 
 None of our direct energy utilization in 2012 was from renewable sources.
46
Go back to Table of ContentsEN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source
 Fully Reported
 See the “Environmental Stewardship – Using Energy Wisely” section of this report.  
 EQT Facilities utilized 43,200,000,000,000 joules or 12,000 MWh of indirect energy in 2012, mostly electricity. The primary fuels used to 
produce electricity in EQT’s operating areas are coal, natural gas and nuclear. 
 EQT leases all equipment used for its production, midstream and distribution field activities, so we do not have any indirect sources of energy for these activities.  
 None of our indirect energy utilization in 2012 was from renewable sources.
 Water 
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source
 Fully Reported
 See the “Environmental Stewardship – Managing Water Resources” section of this report.
 
EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water
 Fully Reported
 See the “Environmental Stewardship – Managing Water Resources” section of this report.
EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused
 Fully Reported
 See the “Environmental Stewardship – Managing Water Resources” section of this report.
 Biodiversity
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
 Fully Reported
 See the “Environmental Stewardship – Respecting the Land We Share” section of this report.
 Emissions, Effluents and Waste 
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved
 Fully Reported
 See the “Environmental Stewardship – Reducing Air Emissions” section of this report. 
EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight
 Fully Reported
 See the “Environmental Stewardship – Reducing Air Emissions” section of this report. 
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 
Fully Reported
 EQT uses the most efficient, environmentally responsible and cost-effective disposal methods possible.  We reuse (or sell as a usable product) materials such as flowback fluid and condensate, wherever possible. In 2012, EQT reused 2.1 million barrels of flowback water from Marcellus drilling completions, disposed of 85.9 barrels of fracking fluid in injection wells, and sent 188 tons of hazardous waste liquids (from midstream compressor stations and fluids associated with drilling and completions) to treatment facilities for disposal.  
47 GRI CONTENT INDEX
Go back to Table of Contents Hazardous wastes for the following are not applicable to EQT Operations:
 • Composting
 • Recycling
 • Recovery
 • Incineration or use as fuel
 • On-site storage
 EQT currently tracks waste for landfill, routine operations, and unusual activities on a project by project basis, but we continue to explore 
the possibility of more detailed reporting for data collected in the future. 
 EQT’s Pennsylvania waste reporting threshold is based on the requirement specified as part of the Form 26r Chemical Analysis of Residual Waste Reporting Requirements. 
 EQT does not have any oil sands/tar sands mining operations.
OG5 Volume of formation or produced water
 Fully Reported
 See the “Environmental Stewardship – Managing Water Resources” section of this report.
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills
 Fully Reported
 See the “Environmental Stewardship – Preventing and Managing Spills” section of this report.
 Compliance
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanction for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations  
Fully Reported
 The total value of monetary fines in 2012 was $65,925. There were no non-monetary sanctions, and no cases brought through dispute resolution mechanism.
 Transport
EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations,  
and transporting members of the workforce
  See the “Environmental Stewardship” section of this report.  
 EQT only maintains data for the vehicle fleet that we own and operate. This analysis does not include employees’ personal vehicles; however we do have other programs in place to help reduce the environmental impact of transporting employees.
 Logistical Transportation
 Fleet vehicles: 1,384
 Gasoline Used: 1,427,646 gallons*
 Diesel Fuel Used:  167,601 gallons*
 CNG Fuel Used: 3.594 gas gallon equivalent*
 CO
2 emissions (calculated): 16,931 metric tons
 CH4 emissions (calculated): 0.32 metric ton*
 N2O emissions  (calculated): 1.12 metric ton*
 *Does not include Equitable Gas Company.
 Methodology EQT utilizes ARI for the management of our vehicle fleet, and they provide data on vehicle type, model year and usage including miles driven and fuel purchased.  
 Emissions factors from the Climate Registry (TCR) were utilized to convert fuel consumed to emissions. TCR General Reporting Protocol Table 13.1 — US Default CO
2 emissions factors — was  used for CO2 emissions, and TCR General Reporting Protocol Table 13.4 — Default 
CH4 and N2O Emissions factors for highway vehicles by model year — was used for CH4 and N2O reporting.
48
Go back to Table of Contents PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - SOCIAL: 
LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORk
 Employment 
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender, compensation, donations and other 
community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 
 Fully Reported
 See “Social Responsibility – Our Employees” section of this report. 
 EQT categorizes all employees as either non-union or union (i.e., represented by a collective bargaining agreement).  
 EQT makes no distinction between permanent and temporary contracts, and there are no seasonal variations in EQT’s employment numbers.
LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region
 Fully Reported
 See “Social Responsibility – Our Employees” section of this report.
LA3  Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations
 Fully Reported
 See “Social Responsibility – Our Employees” section of this report.
LA15  Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender
 Fully Reported
 See “Social Responsibility – Our Employees” section of this report.
 EQT does not separately track Maternity/Paternity Leave; rather, the data reported includes all employees who took Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) leave in 2012.
 Regular full and part-time employees of EQT Corporation and its subsidiaries, who did not meet all of the following requirements by December 31, 2012 were not  eligible for FMLA leave:  •     At least 12 months of service with the Company (does not have to be consecutive); and  •     A minimum of 1,250 hours of work with EQT during the 12 month period immediately preceding the commencement of the FMLA leave. 
 Part-time employees with less than one year of service are not eligible for FMLA leave.
 Note: All six employees reported as taking parental leave did so in the first half of 2012. There were no employees that requested leave  in the second half of 2012.
49 GRI CONTENT INDEX Labor/Management Relations 
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements
 Fully Reported
 11.2% of EQT’s total workforce is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements
 Fully Reported
 EQT has not pre-determined (as a matter of policy) the minimum number of weeks of notice that will be given in the event of significant operational changes. The length of the notice period is determined on a case-by-case basis considering several factors which include, but are not limited to, number of employees affected, type or impact of operational change, timeframe for implementing change, legal/contractual obligations to bargain over the change and/or the effects of the change, etc.
 EQT’s collective bargaining agreements (CBA) do not set forth a minimum notice period for making/announcing a significant operational change if the change does not affect current working conditions or other conditions of employment. If the significant operational change modifies working conditions or other conditions of employment in effect or established by the CBA, the party seeking the change must provide 10 days’ notice of its intent to bargain over the change in working conditions.
Go back to Table of ContentsLA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 
community members regarding serious disease
 Fully Reported
 
See the “Social Responsibility – Our Employees” section of this report.
EQT’s wellness program, called “Take Charge,” includes personal health coaching, wellness information, and health management programs. 
The program also provides confidential short-term counseling, information, and referral services for issues, such as family and relationship concerns, elder care referral, money management, or legal problems. 
These resources are administered outside of EQT, and individual results or information from any part of the Program remain strictly 
confidential and are not provided to EQT.
The “Take Charge” Wellness Program includes quarterly educational sessions, facilitated by professional medical staff, for employees during 
work hours and newsletters mailed to employee homes for the benefit of employee families.
EQT’s Employee Assistance Program provides confidential counseling services and treatment programs. All employees, including those who 
waive the Company’s medical coverage, are enrolled in this benefit. Anyone living in the employee’s household is also eligible for this benefit. The Company pays the full cost for up to five in-person visits with a counselor for each problem.
EQT has detailed standards for assessing potential hazards in the work environment and selecting the appropriate forms of equipment to 
protect employees, contractors, service providers and visitors. We also maintain a robust workplace safety training program that includes both regulatory required and risk-based training for our employees.
 
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions
 Fully Reported
EQT’s two collective bargaining agreements (“CBAs”) are the only agreements between the Company and the labor unions representing certain 
employees covering health and safety topics. One of the CBAs contains the following general acknowledgement/agreement concerning health and safety:
50 Occupational Health and Safety 
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help  monitor and 
advise on occupational health and safety programs
 Fully Reported
 Between 25% and 50% of the total workforce is represented in joint health and safety committees. These joint committees  typically 
 operate at the District or Area Supervisor level down to hourly workers.
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region and gender
 Partially Reported
See “Social Responsibility – Our Employees” and “Safety” sections of this report.
EQT does not utilize supervised workers as defined by GRI, nor does the company utilize independent contractors for onsite work, so we do 
not maintain safety data for these categories of workers.  All reported data applies to EQT’s total workforce of 1,873 employees as reported in performance indicator LA1 and includes minor (first-aid level) injuries. EQT uses OSHA accepted calculation rates that utilize total work hours. The normalization factor is 200,000 which represents 100 full time workers for one year.
EQT records the nature of each incident for the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). OSHA does not require, nor 
does EQT track, region or gender details. EQT’s IR for 2012 = OSHA Recordable Rate = 2.52. OSHA does not require, nor does EQT track occupational disease rates for its workforce.
When calculating lost days, days means ‘calendar days’ and the lost day count begins when a medical professional classifies it as a lost time 
accident. EQT’s lost day rate (LDR) for the total workforce was 0.47, and included two males in KY, one male in WV, two males in PA, and  one female in PA.
One male EQT employee experienced vehicle incident fatal injuries in 2012. EQT reviewed our existing vehicle safety procedures with 
employees to reinforce adherence to our workplace safety initiatives designed to avoid similar incidents.  
EQT employees are required to report all safety incidents. Reporting and recording are conducted in compliance with OSHA rules.
Go back to Table of ContentsGo back to Table of Contents51 GRI CONTENT INDEX“The Company shall institute and maintain all necessary precautions for safeguarding the safety of its employees, and all employees are 
expected to cooperate in the implementation thereof. Both the Company and the Union recognize their mutual obligations to assist in the prevention, correction and elimination of all unsafe working conditions and practices.”
Both CBAs provide for joint management-employee health and safety committees.
 Training and Education 
LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and    
assist them in managing career endings 
 Fully Reported
EQT offers an Education Assistance Program to all full-time employees who have completed at least six months of service.  There is no maximum benefit 
under the Program, provided the employee receives necessary course approvals in advance and receives the required grade levels.  
The Company also provides Leadership Development Training, facilitated by EQT Human Resources employees who are certified trainers, for all 
employees with direct reports. The training includes five modules, totaling 19 hours. In addition, individual department budgets include funding for 
external executive education and/or seminars.  
Finally, with the approval of the employee’s business unit or functional leader and the Vice President & Chief Human Resources Officer, an unpaid 
personal leave of absence may be granted for personal reasons (which include a sabbatical). The duration of job-protected leave depends on the 
employee’s length of Company service.
EQT provides educational sessions for active employees on Medicare and Social Security benefits, as well as how to best utilize the resources available 
through the Benefits Service Center. In the event of involuntary termination without cause, the Company’s Severance Pay Plan provides pay and benefits (medical, dental and vision) continuation. The duration of pay and benefits continuation is based on the employee’s length of Company service.  
The Company provides outplacement services through a contracted provider to assist the employee with resume preparation and job search strategies.
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender
 Fully Reported
87.9% of all 1,873 EQT employees received a formal performance appraisal and review for 2012. Of these employees, 87.6% were male and 
89.0% were female.
 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 
 Fully Reported
See the “Social Responsibility – Our Employees” section of this report for information about the EQT workforces, and the “About EQT” 
section of this report for information about the EQT Board of Directors.
 SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS
 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights
 Fully Reported
 All of EQT’s operations are in the United States.  As such, EQT and the suppliers who provide it with significant supplies or services are 
subject to applicable federal and state laws governing employment, the right to associate (or not associate) with a labor union and collective 
bargaining (i.e., National Labor Relations Act, etc.).  
Go back to Table of ContentsGo back to Table of ContentsBecause of long-standing U.S. labor laws and the mechanisms available for enforcing those laws, the right of employees to exercise freedom 
of association or collective bargaining are not at significant risk in any of EQT’s operations.
All suppliers are also required to submit documentation including a current certificate of liability insurance and Department of Treasury 
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form W-9 certifying the company’s location of operations and status as a U.S. person as defined by the United states Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
EQT complies (and requires its suppliers to comply) with applicable laws and regulations.  When appropriate, during the applicable reporting 
period, EQT provided training to managers/supervisors concerning applicable labor laws and EQT’s responsibility under them.  
In addition, EQT has complied with its legal obligation to negotiate, in good faith, with the labor unions representing certain employees whose 
labor agreements expired.
 SOCIAL: SOCIETY
 Local Communities
OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned
 Fully Reported
EQT Corporation is only involved with onshore activities. There are no offshore decommissioning activities to report.  
Active Sites Midstream: 122 active compressor stations and 8 active dehydration stations 
   Production: approx. 15,700 active wells and 1,800 shut in wells
Inactive Sites Midstream: 36 inactive compressor stations and 1 station decommissioned in 2012
   Production: 52 wells plugged and abandoned  in 2012
For purposes of this report, EQT defines inactive sites as non-operating compressor stations (midstream operations) and shut-in wells 
(production operations) that are closed off and do not produce natural gas.
EQT does not explicitly track the total land area of active and inactive sites, but we will explore our ability to measure and report this data 
for future reports.
EQT bases decommissioning decisions on the economic viability of the site (e.g., natural gas wells that are no longer producing gas are  
shut in); no EQT sites that were active in 2012 had decommissioning plans in place. Perry station in KY is scheduled to be shut down in 2014.  There were no complaints on outstanding local community issues nor any government notices on decommissioning.
 
Public Policy 
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying
 Partially Reported
 See the “Social Responsibility – Public Policy and Political Engagement” section of this report. 
SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country
 Fully Reported
 See the “Social Responsibility – Public Policy and Political Engagement” section of this report.
EQT Employee PACs  (includes transfers to EQT Employees Pennsylvania State PAC to fund contributions in PA) 
• Contributions to candidates for and members of The Pennsylvania General Assembly and candidates for governor: $67,400
• Contributions to candidates for and members of West Virginia Legislature and candidate for governor: $9,500
• Contributions to candidates for Pennsylvania County and City Offices: $1,750 
• Contributions to candidates for and members of Kentucky Legislature  $8,250
• Contributions to candidates for U.S. Congress and U.S. Senate:  $40,250
EQT Corporation• Contributions to candidates for and members of Virginia Legislature: $18,000
• Contributions to organizations organized under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code, which consisted of memberships to the  
 Democratic Governors Association and the Republican Governors Association: $50,000
52
Go back to Table of ContentsTrade Association Memberships
In 2012, EQT maintained memberships in a number of business and industry trade associations. Of the dollars EQT spent on memberships with these trade associations, $149,634 was reported by the associations as dollars spent on lobbying activity.  A listing of EQT’s association memberships can be found in profile indicator response 4.13.
EQT made no financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions outside the United States. 
Anti-Competitive Behavior
 
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes
 Fully Reported
 EQT is not involved in any legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly practices, so there are no outcomes,  
 decisions or judgments to report.
 Compliance
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations
 Fully Reported
See performance indicator EN28 in this index.
 Involuntary Resettlement
OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, the number of households resettled in each and how their livelihoods were  
 affected in the process
 Fully Reported
None of EQT’s business segments performed any involuntary settlements in 2012, so no households were displaced and no livelihoods were affected.
EQT routes pipelines and sites compressor stations away from residences wherever possible to avoid impact to the community or 
involuntary re-settlements.
 SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
 Product and Service Labeling
PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction
 Fully Reported
  See the “Social Responsibility – Stakeholder Engagement” section of this report.
 Marketing Communications
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship  
Fully Reported
 
 See the “Social Responsibility – Stakeholder Engagement” section of this report.
EQT does not sell any products that are banned in any markets.  We produce marketing communications programs and materials that  are consistent with known industry standards as well as the requirements of applicable state and local regulatory bodies.   These communications are reviewed at least once per year, and during program updates.
53 GRI CONTENT INDEX
Go back to Table of Contents54EQT’s Participation in the Value Chain
Go back to Table of ContentsEQT’s Participation in the Value Chain
EQT’S PARTICIPATION IN THE VALUE CHAIN 55
Go back to Table of ContentsThis report is printed on Neenah ENVIRONMENT Premium Recycled Papers.
Cover:  Neenah ENVIRONMENT Smooth 100# Cover in DESERT STORM. Made with 100% post-consumer fibers.
Text:   Neenah ENVIRONMENT Smooth 80# Text in ULTRA BRIGHT WHITE. Made with 80% post-consumer fibers.
Index:  Neenah ENVIRONMENT PC 100 Smooth 80# Text in NATURAL. Made with 100% post-consumer fibers.C011397XX% Total Recycled FiberXX% Total Recycled Fiber80% 
Go back to Table of ContentsGo back to Table of ContentsEQT Plaza  625 Liberty Avenue, Suite 1700, Pittsburgh, PA 15222   
412.553.5700   www.eqt.com
Go back to Table of Contents