Sustainable Performance  
Responsible Growth
2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORTABOUT THIS REPORT  2
MESSAGE FROM THE CEO  3
ABOUT EQT  5
SAFETY 15
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 23
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 35
ECONOMIC IMPACT 51
KEY PERFORMANCE DATA 56
Global Reporting Initiative CONTENT INDEX 58
GRI 4.0 Guidelines
The 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility report for EQT 
Corporation (EQT or Company) represents the Company’s 
ongoing commitment to transparency and accountability in its 
operations. This is the fifth consecutive report prepared using 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and technical 
protocols to determine the materiality of data, methods for 
reporting data, and validating completeness. The report 
adheres to GRI 4.0 standards, including the updated Oil & Gas 
Sector Supplement (OGSS), which provide a more detailed 
account of performance in categories that are most important 
to the Company and its stakeholders.
Report Boundaries
This report includes activities at EQT headquarters and at 
all locations of EQT’s Production and Midstream business 
segments occurring January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. 
The EQT midstream data in the report includes the operations 
of EQT Midstream Partners, LP (EQM) — a publicly traded 
limited partnership formed by EQT in 2012 to own, operate, 
acquire, and develop midstream assets in the Appalachian 
basin. Also included are the financial and operating results 
of EQT GP Holdings, LP (EQGP), a publicly traded limited 
partnership created by EQT in 2015 to own the Company’s 
EQM partnership interests, including the incentive distribution 
rights. Due to EQT’s ownership of EQM and EQGP, unless 
otherwise noted, discussions in this report regarding the 
Midstream segment’s business, operations, and results 
include the business, operations, and results of EQT, EQGP, 
and EQM. Not included in the report are EQT’s foreign 
subsidiaries, which are now inactive.Defining Material Aspects
The primary objective for preparing an annual sustainability 
report is to identify and disclose valuable information to EQT’s 
stakeholders — helping them understand how the Company 
operates as a safe, responsible, and accountable corporate 
citizen. This commitment to transparency ensures that EQT 
discloses information that is most important in assessing 
its performance in several key areas of sustainability and 
corporate responsibility. The Company works continually to 
update those sustainability topics of most relevance to the 
business and its stakeholders.
In Accordance Option
EQT is pleased to announce that its 2016 Corporate Social 
Responsibility report was prepared in accordance with the 
criteria defined by the GRI 4.0 and the current OGSS, and that 
the report complies with the In Accordance – Comprehensive  
option. A self-assessment of the report was conducted; 
however, the report was not submitted for external 
assurance. EQT’s Corporate Director, Communications is 
accountable for compiling, verifying, and approving the 
information contained in this sustainability report, including 
ensuring that all relevant material aspects are covered.About this Report
2 Click here for Table of ContentsMessage from the CEO
Message from the CEO  3Dear Stakeholders,
As EQT Corporation approaches 130 years in the natural gas industry, the Company  
and its employees have endured the cyclical ups and downs of a boom or bust business, 
however, one constant has remained unchanged — a commitment to responsibility, 
sustainability, and innovation.
 
When the Company originated in 1888, one of the strategic priorities was to help 
bring clean, reliable, and affordable energy to the homes and businesses of western 
Pennsylvania. During the next century, EQT acquired leases across Appalachia for  
drilling and storage fields — and as the industry grew, and natural gas became a 
mainstream energy source, our Company expanded its focus to include innovative  
ways to address the social and economic impacts of its activities.
EQT still has similar strategic priorities for sustainability, although the methodology for managing the impacts has changed 
considerably. This 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility report looks back at the roots of EQT’s social, economic, and 
environmental performance. We revisit milestones in our path to continued success, share our 2015 performance, and set  
the stage for the Company’s long-term strategy to grow responsibly.
As a leader in the natural gas industry, EQT recognizes its responsibility to be transparent and accountable. To us, that means 
helping stakeholders understand the origins, risks, costs, and benefits associated with natural gas development. It also means 
raising awareness of the significant improvements that have taken place, and continue to evolve, to ensure safe operations, 
protect our environment, create jobs, and boost our local and national economies. 
Our world may look very different today than it did 100 years ago, but one thing hasn’t changed. EQT is here for the long run — 
during a boom or bust — because continuous improvement drives the EQT business model for responsible growth. With this 
report, we are proud to share the results of our efforts to achieve sustainable performance for our shareholders, employees, 
customers, and the communities where we live and work.
David L. Porges
Chief Executive Officer
EQT Corporation
Click here for Table of ContentsIn 2015,  EQT’s  
record-breaking Utica well  
in Green County, Pennsylvania,  
was drilled.
Depth of the well:  
13,000 feet 
Initial production, per day:  
72.9 mil. cu. feetDepth of the well:  
1,400 feet 
Initial production, per day:  
34 mil. cu. feetIn 1878,  Obediah and Michael 
Haymaker discovered natural gas  
while drilling for oil  
in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania.For Centuries …Leading the Way
4 
e
Click here for Table of Contents5A History of  
Industry Leadership  
and Experience 
About EQT  5ABOUT EQT
The birth of the company now 
known as EQT Corporation 
began with three men:  
Obediah Haymaker, Michael 
Haymaker, and George 
Westinghouse. In the early 
19th century, brothers 
Obediah and Michael were 
hoping to make their fortunes 
from oil found across 
southwestern Pennsylvania. 
Spotting natural gas seeping 
from the ground near the 
Turtle Creek in Murrysville, 
Pennsylvania, the brothers 
began drilling, assuming that 
they would also find oil. It took them a year to drill 
the first 400 feet, but when they finally reached 1,400 
feet in November 1878, the well came in releasing 
natural gas at an estimated initial production of 30 to 
40 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d).   
That well, known as Haymaker #1, quickly became national 
news, creating an economic boom for Murrysville as new 
commercial operations formed to drill more wells, lay 
pipelines, and transport natural gas to homes and factories. 
One of those operations was the Equitable Gas Company, 
formed in 1888 by George Trautman and R. B. Brown to 
transport and supply natural gas to manufacturing plants and 
mills along the Allegheny River in Pittsburgh.2
Industrialist George Westinghouse, whose residence in 
Pittsburgh was the first to light and heat with natural gas 
when he drilled a well in his backyard in 1884, was also 
exploring the commercial opportunities of this cheap, clean-
burning energy. Under the umbrella of his Philadelphia 
Company subsidiary, he began to buy acreage in Murrysville 
near the Haymaker field, along with several small gas 
companies operating in the area. In 1900, Westinghouse purchased Equitable Gas Company and consolidated his 
extensive network of production and distribution facilities 
under that name. By 1910, Equitable controlled 440,000 acres 
under lease in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, and operated 
902 wells; in the 1930s, it became a leader in underground 
gas storage. 
Equitable Gas Company separated from the Philadelphia 
Company in 1950 retaining the parent firm’s natural gas 
production, transmission, and 
distribution facilities. Later that 
year, it became a publicly traded 
company through the sale of 
two million shares of common 
stock. Equitable Gas Company 
survived the energy shocks and 
shortages of the 1970s and early 
1980s by searching for new gas 
reserves to develop and produce. 
Equitable Gas Company also 
began to evolve its corporate 
structure, separating into two 
segments — its distribution 
system and its non-utility gas and 
oil exploration and production 
business. In 2009, following a 
corporate restructuring, the 
company changed its name to 
EQT Corporation. In 2013, EQT sold its distribution system 
— Equitable Gas Company — allowing the Company to focus 
on maintaining its position as one of the leading natural gas 
production, transmission, and gathering companies in the 
Appalachian Basin.  
With nearly 130 years of history in all aspects of the natural 
gas industry, EQT continues to demonstrate a high level of 
integrity, experience, innovation, and sustainability that very 
few of its peers can match.  
1 Source for pre-1989 information: 1888 – 1988 Equitable Resources:  
100 Years of Service
2 Source: The Atlantic Reporter, Volume 26, cases argued and de-
termined in the courts of Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, New 
Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont
1
Click here for Table of ContentsEQT sells produced natural gas as a commodity to marketers, 
utilities, and industrial customers located mainly in the 
Appalachian Basin and the Northeastern United States, as 
well as the Permian Basin of Texas. EQM provides Midstream 
services to EQT and other third-party companies across 21 
counties in Pennsylvania and West Virginia through its two 
primary assets: the transmission and storage system, which 
serves as a header system transportation pipeline, and the 
gathering system, which delivers natural gas from wells and 
other points to transmission pipelines.
PRODUCTION
The Production segment is one of the largest natural gas 
producers in the Appalachian Basin with 10.0 trillion cubic 
feet equivalent (Tcfe) of proved natural gas, natural gas 
liquids, and crude oil reserves located across approximately 
3.4 million gross acres, with approximately 630,000 of those 
acres concentrated in the Marcellus Shale region. Although 
the Company’s total proved reserves decreased 7% in 2015, 
its Marcellus assets remained strong and contributed 
approximately 7.8 Tcfe proved reserves.
EQT believes it is a technology leader in extended-lateral 
horizontal drilling, and continues to improve it operations 
by using new, innovative technology to maintain an industry 
leading cost structure. In addition, by utilizing multi-well pads, 
drilling longer laterals, and instituting a completion technique 
known as cluster spacing, EQT continues to focus on reducing 
the overall surface footprint of its drilling operations.Current Business Structure 
and Performance
EQT Corporation (NYSE: EQT) is a Standard & Poor’s 500 
investor-owned corporation that focuses on Appalachian 
area natural gas production, gathering, and transmission. 
Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania since its birth 
as Equitable Gas Company in 1888, the Company operates 
primarily within the United States of America. At the end of 
2015, the EQT workforce totaled 1,914 employees working in 
Pennsylvania (PA), West Virginia (WV), Ohio (OH), Kentucky 
(KY), Virginia (VA), and Texas (TX). In addition to the corporate 
headquarters, the Company operates through two business 
segments: Production and Midstream. 
EQT’s early affiliation with the Philadelphia Company 
provided a treasure trove of experience in the natural gas 
industry, including numerous innovations by its owner, 
George Westinghouse. Such innovations included better 
and safer ways to dig gas wells, prevent and detect leaks, 
and regulate the pressure of gas at the source as well as at 
the point of use.3 Nearly 130 years later, EQT continues that 
same commitment to innovation, which allows it to maintain 
its position as a leader in the use of advanced horizontal 
drilling technology — designed to minimize the potential 
impact of drilling-related activities and reduce the overall 
environmental footprint. Through safe and responsible 
operations, the Company is committed to sustainability as it 
helps meet the country’s growing demand for clean-burning 
energy, protects the environment, provides a rewarding 
workplace, and enriches the communities where its 
stakeholders live and work.
6
Production Wells
Natural 
GasOil Total
Total productive wells
Total Gross 
Productive Wells13,430 105 13,535
Total Net  
Productive Wells12,703 101 12,804
Total in-process wells
Total gross in-
process wells192 - 192
Total net in- 
process wells191 - 191As of December 31, 2015
3  Source: Westinghouse Legacy  
(www.westinghousememorial.org/history.htm)
Click here for Table of ContentsThe Haymaker #1 well made news with a depth of 1,400 feet 
and initial production of about 32 MMcf/day. Today, EQT now 
has wells in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus formation with depths 
of 5,000 to 8,000 feet. West Virginia wells in the Marcellus 
and Huron formations have depths ranging from 2,500 to 
6,500 feet, and wells in Kentucky’s Huron formation range 
from 2,500 to 6,000 feet. In the deep Utica formation, EQT 
drilled two wells with depths of up to 13,500 feet. One of the 
Utica wells in Greene County, Pennsylvania known as Scotts 
Run, came online in July 2015 and made national news as the 
highest producing shale well ever, with initial production  
rates of 72.9 MMcf/day.
MIDSTREAM
The Midstream segment is capitalizing on the rapidly increasing 
need for pipeline infrastructure in the Appalachian Basin 
through its affiliated company, EQT Midstream Partners. EQM 
provides midstream services to EQT and other third parties 
through its transmission, storage, and gathering systems 
that are located throughout the Marcellus and Utica Shales in 
southwestern Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia.  
In the late 1800s and early 1900s, George Westinghouse 
recognized the commercial potential of natural gas, and 
Pittsburgh’s prime location as a base for significant industrial 
growth from the steel industry and other manufacturing 
opportunities, not the least of which were his own industrial 
plants. The challenge then, as it is today, was getting the gas 
to customers who needed it — there simply was not enough 
pipeline capacity to deliver the gas when needed, nor was 
there a way to move the gas from the more remote sources. 4 The Natural Gas Industry in Appalachia: A History from the First  
Discovery by David A. Waples
About EQT  7Pushed by Westinghouse, the Philadelphia 
Company used field crews driving teams of 
horses and oxen to haul sections of cast-iron 
pipe, tools, and equipment over hundreds 
of miles of mountain terrain to build the 
lines needed to carry gas to the Pittsburgh 
market.4 Steam-powered engines, housed in 
compressor stations, pumped the gas through 
the pipelines at high pressures, assuring 
a fast and reliable flow of fuel through the 
long-distance transmission lines. Later 
experiments proved the viability of pumping 
natural gas back into depleted gas fields 
for storage, and later withdrawing it when 
needed to meet peak needs. Equitable Gas 
Company (then a subsidiary of the Philadelphia 
Company) became a leader in underground 
storage, developing its first storage reservoir 
in Finleyville, Pennsylvania in 1934; many more 
have followed EQT into the 21st century.5
Midstream Assets
Gathering System
Gathering Lines 8,250 miles
Includes: 
• 1,500 miles of low pressure lines 
(FERC-regulated rates)
•  185 miles of high pressure lines
Marcellus Gathering Capacity2,000 MMcf/
day
Includes: 
• Approximately 1,405 MMcf/day in PA
• Approximately 595 MMcf/day in WV
Transmission and Storage System
FERC-regulated interstate pipeline 900 miles
Includes:  
•  Equitrans
•  Allegheny Valley Connector700 miles
200 miles
Natural gas storage reservoirs
(14 owned by EQM, 4 owned by EQT)18
Peak delivery capacity47 Bcf of 
working gas 
capacity
Total transmission capacity3,550 MMcf/
dayAs of December 31, 2015
5 Pittsburgh Press, January 18, 1959, Section 5, page 8, 
  “The Value of Gas Slow to be Appreciated”
Click here for Table of ContentsIn 1881, George Westinghouse was the first to break the 
traditional six-day workweek rule when he inaugurated the 
Saturday half-holiday in his Pittsburgh factory — and later 
insisted on providing lighting, ventilation, and other features 
to enhance working conditions for his employees. This vision 
of ethics, work, and fair play was central to the mission of all 
of his other companies,6 including Equitable Gas Company.
Today, corporate sustainability goes far beyond workplace issues 
to include environmental, economic, and social performance 
of companies that are committed to ethical behavior, 
accountability, and transparency. These principles, along with a 
commitment to safety, and to working collaboratively to insure 
diversity and inclusion, are what continually drive EQT’s success 
in the energy industry. EQT knows how its business operations 
affect communities, how changes in stakeholder awareness 
create new and more challenging expectations, and how 
important it is to show stakeholders what the Company is  
doing to address those expectations.Embracing Sustainability 
8Today, the Midstream business segment, through EQM, 
continues to drive industrial growth by helping to displace 
less clean fossil fuels, such as coal, with cleaner burning 
natural gas. In 2015, progress continued on several Company 
transmission projects to expand capacity and support 
continued growth in the Marcellus Shale and the developing 
Utica Shale. One of those, the Ohio Valley Connector,  is currently 
under construction and includes a 37-mile pipeline that 
will extend EQM’s transmission and storage system from 
northern West Virginia to Clarington, Ohio, where it then will 
interconnect with the Rockies Express Pipeline and the Texas 
Eastern Pipeline.
The proposed Mountain Valley Pipeline (MVP)  project will be 
a FERC-regulated natural gas interstate pipeline system 
spanning approximately 300 miles from northwestern West 
Virginia to southern Virginia, and is expected to provide at least 
two Bcf per day of firm transmission capacity to markets in the 
Mid- and South Atlantic regions of the United States. The MVP 
will extend the existing Equitrans transmission system (owned 
by EQM) in Wetzel County, West Virginia, to Transcontinental 
Gas Pipeline Company’s (Transco) Zone 5 compressor station 
165 in Pittsylvania County, Virginia. Mountain Valley Pipeline, 
LLC, a joint venture formed by EQM and affiliates of NextEra 
Energy, Inc., Consolidated Edison, Inc., WGL Holdings, Inc., 
Vega Energy Partners, Ltd., and RGC Resources, Inc., will 
construct and own MVP. EQM will operate the pipeline and  
own a significant interest in the joint venture.
 
The TP-371 Pipeline Replacement Project  will upgrade 21 
miles of an existing 36-mile portion of the Allegheny Valley 
Connector System in Armstrong and Indiana Counties, 
Pennsylvania, improving the integrity, reliability, and safety  
of the system. The project includes replacement of original  
12-inch diameter pipeline with 20-inch pipeline, and 
installation of a pig launcher/receiver to assist with ongoing 
maintenance. The replacement will be located as close as 
possible to the existing pipeline in order to maintain service 
during construction, and minimize impacts. 
6 Source: George Westinghouse: Gentle Genius  by Quentin R. Skrabec
Click here for Table of ContentsTRANSPARENCY
Intentionally sharing information about how a company 
operates is an important step towards building and 
maintaining the trust of its stakeholders. Stakeholders 
must trust that EQT is doing the right thing, and that the 
communications they receive from EQT are open and honest. 
That is why the Company embraced the GRI report 
methodology five years ago when it began producing a 
formal sustainability report. These standards address all 
aspects of corporate sustainability in a format that allows 
stakeholders to identify information at a level of detail that is 
comprehensive without being overly complex.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT:  
THE ROAD TO RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 
Traditionally, guidelines for reporting sustainability activity rely 
on numerical goals or targets to measure the effectiveness 
of an organization’s activities. On the surface, this approach 
can suggest a simple way to determine whether a company 
is making progress, yet it also assumes that all of the factors 
that go into creating those goals and results remain constant 
from year to year as the company grows. In a constantly 
changing environment such as the natural gas industry,  
a more flexible approach is often more appropriate.
To remain successful, EQT believes it is important to pursue 
continuous improvement in its corporate management process 
rather than set annual targets. This allows the Company to 
embrace new technologies and processes throughout the 
business that will ultimately lead to safer, more efficient 
operations. The drive for continuous improvement also helps EQT 
accommodate its anticipated level of growth while maintaining its 
commitment to meet the expanding environmental, social, and 
economic expectations of its stakeholders. Corporate Governance
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
The Board of Directors is the highest governance body  
in the EQT corporate structure, and EQT, EQGP, and EQM  
each have their own Board that is responsible for overseeing 
the management of the business and affairs of its 
respective company. That includes managing the economic, 
environmental, and social risks and opportunities facing each 
company. The assessment and management of sustainability 
risks and opportunities is part of the day-to-day operation of 
each company, eliminating the need for separate governance 
mechanisms devoted to sustainability. 
The Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee  
of the EQT Board provides oversight for many of the aspects 
of sustainability risks and opportunities for the Company,  
and the actions taken to address these issues. The EQGP  
and EQM Boards provide similar oversight, as appropriate.  
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of each company is  
also the Chair of its respective Board. Each company’s 
Corporate Governance Guidelines found in the Investors 
section of each company’s website describe the philosophy  
for choosing this leadership structure. 
At EQT, EQGP, and EQM, the respective boards delegate 
authority for select economic, environmental, and social 
topics to their CEO, who reports directly to the board.
The CEO in turn delegates some of those authorities 
to members of senior management, based upon their 
established roles and responsibilities within the company. 
These senior managers, who report directly to the CEO, 
often present updates to each board regarding the economic, 
environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 
facing the Company, as well as reviewing the Company’s 
performance in managing the impacts of these activities.
About EQT  9
 Click here for Table of ContentsBOARD STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION – EQGP  
The EQGP Board has one standing committee — the Audit 
Committee — as required by the NYSE. At December 31, 2015, 
the EQGP Board consisted of six directors, two of whom were 
independent as defined by the independence standards of 
the NYSE and the SEC. The NYSE does not require a publicly 
traded limited partnership like EQGP to have a majority of 
independent directors on the board, nor does it require the 
limited partnership to establish a compensation committee,  
or a nominating and corporate governance committee. 
In 2015, the EQGP Board held five regular meetings, as did 
its Audit Committee. At least annually, all of the independent 
directors of EQGP meet in executive session without 
participation by management or non-independent directors. 
Additional information about the EQGP Audit committee is 
available in the 2015 EQGP Form 10-K (page 104), and  
on the EQGP Investor website.BOARD STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION – EQT 
The EQT Board of Directors has five standing committees:  
Audit; Management Development and Compensation; 
Corporate Governance; Public Policy and Corporate 
Responsibility; and Executive. The responsibilities of each 
committee are set forth in written charters available on  
the EQT website under Investors. Information is also  
available in the 2016 EQT Proxy Statement (pp 20-21). At 
December 31, 2015, the EQT Board consisted of twelve 
directors, eleven of whom were independent as defined by 
the independence standards of the New York Stock Exchange 
(NYSE) and the United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). In 2015, the EQT Board held six regular 
meetings, and the independent directors met six times in 
executive session without any EQT officers present.
A summary description of the EQT Board committee 
composition, and detailed descriptions of each director’s 
qualifications, is available in the 2016 EQT Proxy Statement 
(pp 2, 14-21). The 2016 EQT Proxy Statement also contains a 
description of the current nomination and selection process 
for EQT directors (pp 25-27). Beginning in 2016, each board 
member will stand for election on an annual basis.  EQT Board of Directors – 2015
Executive Independent Total
Male 1 
(8%)8 
(67%)9
(75%)
Female - 3 
(25%)3 
(25%)
Minority - 2 
(1 7%)2 
(17%)
Non-
Minority1 
(8%)9 
(75%)10 
(83%)
Age < 30 - - -
Age 30 – 50 - - -
Age > 50 1 
(8%)11 
(92%)12 
(100%)EQGP Board of Directors – 2015
Executive Independent Total
Male 4 
(66%)1 
(1 7%)5 
(83%)
Female - 1 
(1 7%)1 
(17%)
Minority - - -
Non-
Minority4 
(66%)2 
(34%)6 
(100%)
Age < 30 - - -
Age 30 – 50 1 
(1 7%)- 1 
(17%)
Age > 50 3 
(50.0%)2 
(33%)5 
(83%)
10A description of the EQGP Board composition, and detailed 
descriptions of each director’s qualifications, is available in 
the 2015 EQGP Form 10-K (pp 102-105). A subsidiary of EQT 
Corporation appoints the EQGP board members, and the EQGP 
unitholders are not entitled to elect the directors. Review the 
EQGP Corporate Governance Guidelines on the EQGP Investor 
website for more information about the selection process.
Click here for Table of ContentsBOARD STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION – EQM  
The EQM Board has two standing committees: Audit and 
Conflicts. At December 31, 2015, the EQM Board consisted of 
seven directors, three of whom were independent as defined  
by the independence standards of the NYSE and the SEC.  
The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited 
partnership like EQM to have a majority of independent 
directors on the board, nor does it require the limited 
partnership to establish a compensation committee, or a 
nominating and corporate governance committee. 
In 2015, the EQM Board held seven regular meetings and one 
special meeting. The Audit Committee held seven meetings, 
and the Conflicts Committee met five times during the year.  
At least annually, all of the independent directors of EQM meet 
in executive session without participation by management or 
non-independent directors. Additional information about the 
EQM Audit and Conflicts Committees is available in the 2015 
EQM Form 10-K (pp 95-96) and on the EQM Investor website.A description of the EQM Board composition, and detailed 
descriptions of each director’s qualifications, is available in 
the 2015 EQM Form 10-K (pp 93-96). A subsidiary of EQGP 
appoints the EQM board members, and the EQM unitholders 
are not entitled to elect the directors. Review the EQM 
Corporate Governance Guidelines on the EQM Investor 
website for more information about the selection process.  EQM Board of Directors – 2015
Executive Independent Total
Male 4 
(57%)2 
(29%)6 
(86%)
Female - 1 
(14%)1 
(14%)
Minority - 1
(14%)1 
(14%)
Non-
Minority4 
(57%)2 
(29%)6 
(86%)
Age < 30 - - -
Age 30 – 50 - 1 
(14%)1 
(14%)
Age > 50  4
(57%) 2
(29%) 6
(86%)
About EQT 11
 Click here for Table of Contents12BUILDING AND MAINTAINING A COMPETENT BOARD
Many things have changed since the first Board of Directors 
for Equitable Gas Company met in the early 1950s, so it 
is essential that individuals elected to serve on the Board 
understand their governance responsibilities, as well as 
how their decisions affect the economic, environmental, 
and social performance of the company. EQT, EQGP, and 
EQM are each committed to providing every director with an 
initial orientation to board service. Each company provides 
management presentations and other information at each 
board meeting to help educate the directors about its 
business, pertinent issues in the natural gas industry, and 
relevant economic, environmental, and social topics affecting 
stakeholders. Directors of EQT, EQGP, and EQM are also 
encouraged to participate in educational programs, for which 
the applicable company provides funding or reimbursement.
Performance assessment is another tool used by the EQT, 
EQGP, and EQM Boards and committees to evaluate how  
well they are fulfilling their governance responsibilities.  
At EQT, the Board and its committees conduct annual self-
assessments, and each director assesses individual director 
performance in meetings with the EQT Lead Independent 
Director. At EQGP and EQM, the Boards and Audit Committees 
also conduct annual self-assessments. Although the Boards 
do not disclose publicly the actions taken in response to 
their annual self-assessments, they do take the assessment 
process seriously, and each Board responds appropriately to 
the results to improve overall governance performance.ASSESSING AND MANAGING RISK
The EQT, EQGP, and EQM Boards are responsible for reviewing 
the process for assessing major risks facing their respective 
companies, and regularly consult with their respective 
management teams to identify pertinent risks, the ways that 
such risks might affect the operation of the business and its 
stakeholders, and the appropriate steps required to mitigate 
adverse impacts. The EQT 2015 Form 10-K (pp 18-24) provides 
a more detailed discussion of the most significant risks facing 
the organization and the potential impacts on the Company 
and its stakeholders. Similar information is available for EQGP 
and EQM in the 2015 EQGP Form 10-K (pp 23-52) and the 2015 
EQM Form 10-K (pp 22-47), respectively.
COMMUNICATING WITH THE BOARD
In order to achieve sustainable performance for shareholders, 
employees, customers, and the communities, the Boards of EQT, 
EQGP, and EQM are committed to overseeing their companies 
with integrity, accountability, and transparency. They welcome 
input on how they are doing, and each organization provides stake-  
holders multiple ways to communicate with their governing body. 
   
At EQT, the key point of contact for concerns or inquiries is 
the Lead Independent Director (and through that director, all 
other directors independently or as a group). For EQGP and 
EQM, the key point of contact is the Presiding Director of each 
board. EQT provides detailed contact information in the 2016 
EQT Proxy Statement (p 27), and EQGP (p 104) and EQM (p 95) 
provide the information in their respective 2015 Form 10-K under 
the section titled “Meeting of Non-Management Directors and 
Communications with Directors.” Other avenues for contacting the 
Boards of EQT, EQGP, and EQM include: each company’s Corporate 
Secretary, Chief Investor Relations Officer, management 
team, and respective websites; the EQT Compliance Hotline; 
and traditional email or written correspondence. These 
communications may be made anonymously or confidentially.
Click here for Table of ContentsCommitment to  
Ethical Conduct
The EQT, EQGP, and EQM Boards drive the commitment 
to operate with integrity, accountability, and transparency 
— values essential to the Company’s ability to achieve 
sustainable performance. The EQT and EQM/EQGP Codes of 
Business Conduct and Ethics, along with numerous internal 
policies and procedures, formalize that commitment for 
the Boards, employees, and suppliers of EQT, EQGP, and 
EQM, and set the ethical guidelines and expectations that 
stakeholders expect from each organization.
CODES OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS
Today’s business environment is complex and changes in 
economic climate and business conditions are inevitable, 
however, one thing that will never change is EQT’s belief 
that enhancing and maintaining its good reputation depends 
upon each employee being individually responsible for his 
or her conduct. The EQT and EQM/EQGP Codes of Business 
Conduct and Ethics serve as guides and information 
resources about personal responsibilities, including 
compliance with law and the application of good judgment in 
all aspects of the work done by the organization. Developed 
in conjunction with subject matter experts, the Codes of 
Business Conduct and Ethics are regularly updated to 
ensure they reflect the ever-changing work environment 
and legal and regulatory landscape. Senior management at 
EQT, EQGP, and EQM approve these Codes, and respective 
Boards review the Codes prior to implementation.
TRAINING AND ADVICE — THE COMPLIANCE HOTLINE
EQT demonstrates its commitment to operate with integrity, 
accountability, and transparency by requiring that all 
new employees receive in-person compliance and ethics 
training during orientation. At the start of their tenure, new 
employees are also required to complete online training 
regarding the EQT and EQM/EQGP Codes of Business 
Conduct and Ethics, and other compliance and ethics topics 
pertinent to their work responsibilities. Starting in 2015, all 
employees began receiving annual compliance and ethics 
training in person and/or online. All employees annually 
certify their understanding and compliance with the Codes 
and related policies.
The Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics provide a 
strong guide and resource for employees and vendors of 
the company, but they cannot be all inclusive. That is why 
EQT established the Compliance Network, a collection of 
senior management employees from Enterprise Risk and Compliance, Internal Audit, Employee Relations, Governance 
and Enterprise Risk, and Government and Environmental 
Affairs. The Compliance Network is a resource available to 
employees to seek advice about ethical and lawful behavior 
and serves as an additional channel for reporting misconduct. 
A nationally recognized independent service provider hosts the 
EQT Compliance Hotline 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
Employees and other stakeholders can also express concerns 
directly to the Board of Directors of EQT, EQGP, and EQM via 
each organization’s website.
Conflicts of Interest
In addition to the Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics, EQT 
also has a corporate policy providing guidance on appropriate 
ways to handle situations that involve, or may appear to 
involve, conflicts of interest. The policy covers all employees 
and directors of EQT, EQGP, and EQM, and all actual or 
apparent conflicts of interest related to the Company and its 
affiliates. The Company also has policies outlining employee 
and director responsibilities to comply with the antitrust laws 
of the United States and the several states and other countries 
in which it operates, as well as compliance with the Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act.
EQT and its affiliates monitor the effectiveness of anti-
corruption and antitrust efforts by reviewing the number of 
allegations and substantiated cases received through the 
EQT Compliance Hotline, the Compliance Network, and other 
internal or external communications channels.  During 2015, 
EQT and its affiliates experienced no legal actions — pending 
or completed — regarding anti-competitive behavior, or 
violations of antitrust and monopoly legislation.
About EQT 13
 Click here for Table of ContentsAs of December 
31, 2015  EQT Midstream 
Partners owned or operated  
38 compressor 
units  serving 21 counties in 
Pennsylvania and West Virginia.In 1894,    
EQT’s predecessor, Equitable Gas 
Company, completed its  
first compressor 
station   
in Murrysville, Pennsylvania.Built on a Foundation of Safety
14 
 Click here for Table of Contents5
Safety  15SAFETY
Safety is a core value at EQT, and the 
Company will not compromise on this 
to gain a business advantage. EQT 
is committed to providing a safe and 
healthful workplace for its employees 
and contractors, maintaining and 
operating its equipment responsibly, 
and creating a safe environment 
for communities located near EQT 
operations. The Company formalized 
its dedication to creating and 
maintaining a zero-injury culture 
when it significantly expanded its 
safety awareness and training efforts, 
and issued a formal Environment, 
Health, and Safety Policy  in August 
2013. EQT updated the policy in  
May 2016.
Providing a Safe  
Place to Work
EQT conducts its active business 
operations in accordance with 
the applicable health and safety 
requirements established by the 
U.S. Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration (OSHA) and other 
regulatory bodies, however, in 
the early days of the Company’s 
beginnings with Mr. Westinghouse, 
there was no OSHA. Few laws or 
regulations governing safe and 
healthy working conditions existed 
in the late 1800s, so it was up to 
individual companies to establish 
their own priorities.7 The Philadelphia Company had the 
advantage of leadership by George Westinghouse, who 
recognized that safeguarding the health and welfare of his 
workers contributed to the success and longevity of the 
company. EQT has carried that belief into the 21st century by 
focusing on keeping all workers safe.While the U.S. has numerous laws, 
regulations, and policies relating to 
workplace safety, EQT’s continuous 
improvement efforts ensure that 
proper safety and health practices are 
integrated into all of the Company’s 
operations. EQT’s Deputy General 
Counsel, Environmental, Safety, 
and Public Policy implements and 
manages the Company’s health and 
safety programs. EQT employees 
also play an important role in making 
sure that each worker returns home 
safely at the end of the day. Every 
worker, regardless of title or work 
responsibilities, has the full authority 
and responsibility to stop any unsafe 
work activity. 
 
Training and performance monitoring 
are at the heart of EQT’s workplace 
safety initiatives. The Company does 
not have unionized employees, so 
there are no formal labor agreements 
that define specific health and safety 
training topics. Instead, every EQT 
employee receives core safety training 
annually, along with specialized 
training tailored to the work performed 
and the types of issues faced. The 
specialized training occurs more 
frequently, with subjects and delivery 
methods customized as necessary. 
For example, monthly safety meetings 
held with field employees cover  
training issues such as:
•   personal protective equipment
•   stop work authority
•   incident investigation
•   safe driving
•   industry specific technical  
safety training
7 EH.Net – Economic History Services: History of Workplace Safety in     
  the United States, 1880-1970
Click here for Table of ContentsMay 11, 2016............................................................................................................................. .................
............................................................................................................................. .................ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH ,AND SAFETY POLICY
EQT Corporation is committed to achieving superior
Environment, Health & Safety performance
Safety is a core value for our organization. EQT will provide a safe and 
health fulworkplace for its employees and contractors and through continuous 
improvement, we will work to create and maintain a zero -injury culture. We will 
not compromise safety to gain a business advantage.
EQT also has a steadfast commitment to the protection o f our environment.  
EQT will conduct its business operations in a sustainable and environmentally 
responsible manner at all times –striving to preserve and protect the land, air 
and water where we live and do business.
The following principles will guide us toward superior Environment, Health ,
and Safety (EHS) performance. EQT and its employees will:
•Provide and foster leadership to ensure all employees and contractors 
understand their responsibilities and that all employees are provided 
with the training and support necessary to integrate EHS principles into 
their work .
•Manage our business to prevent incidents that could result in harm to 
people, communities ,property ,or the environment .
•Seek public input regarding our operations in order to facilitate 
continuous improvement in our EHS performance .
•Integrate EHS considerations into planning, design, construction and 
operation of all our processes, programs, and facilities .
•Optimize conservation of natural resources .
•Commit the resources necessary for successful implementation of this 
EHS Policy .
•Provide an effective EHS management system that drives innovation 
andcontinuous improvement, as well as employee and contractor
adherence to EQT processes and requirements .
•Foster business relationships with c ompanies committed to superior 
EHS performance .
•Operate in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations; and 
contribute to the development of responsible EHS legislation, regulation, 
and industry best practices.
David L. Porges
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
16Where  
energy
meets
innovation.
Click here for Table of ContentsEvery EQT employee is free to communicate with management 
about issues or initiatives that could help improve overall 
performance, removing the need to establish formal joint 
management-employee committees. However, variations 
on such committees do exist throughout the organization. 
One example within the Midstream business segment is the 
Field Safety Technician program, which enables employees 
to receive specialized safety training, obtain specialized OSHA 
training and certification, and work with management to develop 
the leadership capabilities needed to identify and prevent 
situations that could cause harm to themselves and others. 
Furthermore, after the all-employee safety survey conducted 
in 2014 by the U.S. National Safety Council, cross-functional employee-management teams throughout EQT formed in 2015 
to work together and address improvement opportunities. 
EQT closely monitors its health and safety performance, risks, 
and statistics to ensure safe worksites, proper employee 
training and motivation to work safely, and the continuous 
identification and evaluation of opportunities to improve. 
All EQT employees have an individual Workplace Safety 
performance objective, of which the specifics vary based 
on each functional area of the Company, such as the “Zero 
Incidents” performance goal in the Midstream and Production  
business segments. 
EQT Safety Performance Trends
Safety IndicatorsPerformance Rate*
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Lost Time Accident (LTA) 0.47 0.34 0.38 0.13 0.36
Days Away, Restricted or Transferred (DART) 0.70 0.78 1.02 0.44 0.57
Preventable Vehicle Accident (PVA) 0.86 1.22 1.39 1.45 0.94
Stationary Object Strike Rate N/A N/A N/A 1.02 0.42
OSHA Recordable Rate 1.98 2.52 2.52 1.66 1.50
*Data excludes minor (first-aid level) injuries
Absentee RatesPerformance Rate*
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
By Region (%)
Kentucky 4.7 3.2 3.2 2.6 3.1
Pennsylvania 4.1 1.9 1.5 1.4 3.0
Texas N/A N/A N/A 1.6 4.6
Virginia 2.6 3.7 2.9 1.2 1.8
West Virginia 3.8 1.6 1.8 1.7 2.7
By Gender (%)
Males 4.0 2.0 1.7 1.3 3.13
Females 3.6 3.0 2.5 2.9 2.43
* EQT does not use independent contractors or supervised workers as defined by GRI, and thus does not record or track 
safety and absentee rates for these types of workers
FatalitiesPerformance Rate*
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
EQT Total Workforce - 1 - - -
Vendor Workforce 1 - 2 - 1
*The 2015 vendor incident involved an excavator striking a natural gas pipeline
Safety  17 Click here for Table of Contents18 
When a safety incident does occur, EQT records the nature 
of the event (including minor injuries) as prescribed by the 
OSHA injury/illness recordkeeping guidelines, which do not 
require tracking by gender or geographic region. After each 
incident, the Company also conducts a thorough incident 
review with senior management to clarify possible causes, 
identify options to prevent recurrences, and highlight 
opportunities to improve training, processes, and procedures. 
EQT personnel also conduct quarterly meetings with the 
Executive Environment Council, and with the Executive Safety 
Council, to review safety and environmental issues, monitor 
trends, and provide direction to enhance the Company’s 
overall performance. 
During 2015, the most frequent incident types involved 
EQT employees working outdoors and included items such 
as insect bites, poisonous plant exposure, or slip/trip/fall 
incidents. With expanded training, risk assessment, and other 
preventive measures, EQT has seen a steady decline in OSHA- 
recordable incidents. As part of the Company’s continuous 
improvement efforts, ongoing refinement of the training and 
incident management programs will help guide EQT toward 
achieving sustainable improvements in other safety statistics.
Making Contractors 
Accountable for Safety
EQT’s focus on safety includes contractors performing work 
for EQT. Every day, numerous contractors perform various 
activities required by the Company’s field operations. 
To ensure that EQT’s job sites remain safe, every contractor 
providing workers must demonstrate a commitment to safety similar to that of EQT. This means each contractor (and its 
subcontractors and agents) must adhere to all applicable laws 
and regulatory requirements for health, safety, employment, 
and other human rights as established for employers 
operating within the United States. In addition, before 
obtaining authorization to begin work for EQT, a contractor 
must be prequalified through ISNETWorld® — an industry-
recognized platform for monitoring safety performance. The 
ISNETWorld® database provides vital information regarding  
a contractor’s performance in the following key areas:
• Safety Management Systems
• Injury and Illness Statistics
• Department of Transportation (DOT)  
Inspection Compliance
• DOT Motor Carrier Safety Rating
• Written Safety Programs and Safety Training
• Experience Modification Rating (EMR)
• Fatality History 
A contractor expecting to perform services in drilling, 
construction, maintenance, or other operations must pass the 
prequalification process, and must agree to adhere to EQT’s 
Contractor Safety Standard and Safe Work Rules. These safety 
requirements apply to all work performed by the contractor’s 
employees and the employees of their subcontractors or 
agents. Existing contractors who fail to meet the rules and 
standards cannot continue to work on an EQT job site. 
EQT does not internally record and track safety statistics 
(other than fatalities) for its contractor s, but it does 
continually review the self-reported information provided  
by contractor s in the ISNETWorld® database.
Click here for Table of ContentsSafety  19
Protecting Local 
Communities 
In the days of that first Haymaker well, there was little public 
knowledge about natural gas or how to help communities 
stay safe as the new industry was developing. Simple things 
such as not discarding a match, being careful about where 
an oil lantern was placed, or having the proper equipment 
installed to prevent pipeline leaks, did not raise concern until 
something happened. 
Today, creating a safe environment for neighborhoods near 
the Company’s operations is just as important, and multi-
faceted, as maintaining workplace safety. Much of this effort 
centers on creating awareness. EQT works closely with local 
emergency response personnel, public works employees, 
elected officials, school districts, and others to share 
important information about the Company’s operations in 
their community. These interactions address how to work 
with EQT to create and ultimately improve joint response 
to safety-related incidents. Specific topics may include 
awareness of what activity is taking place at a local job site, 
the type of equipment used, the most appropriate response 
for various scenarios, and what EQT will do should an incident 
occur. The result is that local officials and first responders 
are more familiar with EQT’s operations in their community, 
who to contact at EQT should an incident occur, and what they 
should, and should not, do to help the Company resolve an 
incident quickly and safely.Another aspect of EQT’s commitment to community safety is 
to address local concerns regarding increased vehicle traffic 
on roads within the municipality. Initial route considerations 
are based on safety, therefore often the resulting route 
necessitates longer drives on the same local roads that 
residents use. EQT carefully considers the locations of 
schools, recreation areas, and other points of interest when 
designing the preliminary construction routes to its job sites, 
but often the options to reach a particular location are limited. 
Since 2013, EQT has worked with local governments and 
school districts to protect students by curtailing its traffic 
on roads traveled by school buses. The Company places 
custom signs along active truck routes, alerting its drivers, 
and those of its contractors, that truck travel is prohibited 
during the posted hours when buses are picking up or 
dropping off students. The signs also alert local residents 
that they also need to slow down and watch for children 
along these routes.
EQT also develops a Traffic Control Plan for each of its 
Marcellus and Utica job sites that details all EQT-imposed 
speed limits, curfews, and route restrictions — the plan is 
distributed to its employees as well as to contractor s (who 
are expected to distribute the plan to their subcontractors). 
EQT actively monitors compliance with the Traffic Control 
Plan, and promptly takes action to address reported 
violations by its employees or by those of its contractor s. 
Once construction- and operations-related traffic begins in 
a community, EQT also uses private road monitors with law 
enforcement backgrounds to provide 24/7 monitoring of 
truck traffic, and to help investigate community complaints 
Click here for Table of Contentsabout employees or contractors who are observed violating 
local, or EQT-imposed, traffic rules. The agents have 
radar-equipped vehicles, and can take corrective action 
when they observe EQT-related traffic creating unsafe 
driving conditions on the roads. To help with enforcing 
contractor  accountability, EQT may require certain 
contractor s to implement GPS-based systems on their 
vehicles and give the Company access to the data.
Vehicle Safety has assumed a much higher profile within 
EQT’s effort to assure safety for its employees, contractors, 
and local communities. To help reduce the number of vehicle-
related incidents, EQT has implemented a comprehensive 
suite of driver training programs and procedures for its 
employees to create awareness of potential hazards and show 
employees how to avoid them. 
Upon assignment to a Company vehicle, each employee 
receives an orientation on how to operate the vehicle safely, 
common road hazards and how to handle them, and preferred 
ways to avoid the most common types of accidents. The 
employee also undergoes a supervisor observation session 
to make sure he or she can operate the vehicle safely. Next, 
the employee undergoes a series of computer-based training 
programs, followed by behind-the-wheel training, which 
includes a defensive driving module. Drivers that must 
operate specialty vehicles, haul trailers, perform extensive 
off-road travel, or drive construction vehicles on public 
roads receive additional instruction, such as Department of 
Transportation compliance training.In the first quarter of 2015, EQT began requiring supervisor 
observation for all of its current drivers, including the 
experienced drivers, in addition to implementing this 
requirement for new drivers. The effectiveness of the new 
emphasis on safe vehicle operation has been significant. 
In 2014, the rate of vehicles striking stationery objects was 
1.02. After the new training and awareness initiatives rolled 
out across the Company, the 2015 rate dropped to 0.42. EQT 
has formed a Safe Driving Leadership Team, consisting of 
representatives from Human Resources and the business 
segment leadership teams, to keep the Company focused on 
developing policies that keep EQT employees safe and provide 
a safe driving environment for local community drivers who 
share the road with them.
Yet another important aspect of ensuring community safety 
is the design and maintenance of the pipelines that transport 
natural gas from the well to the marketplace. One of the 
first major pipelines was constructed in 1891. It was 120 
miles long and carried natural gas from wells in central 
Indiana to the city of Chicago. The ability to connect with 
other systems was not a priority in those days, and there 
were few construction standards in place to ensure reliability. 
The Indiana to Chicago pipeline was plagued with leaks, and 
the resulting inefficiencies ultimately caused its owners to 
shut it down. It was not until the 1920s that significant effort 
went into building a system-wide pipeline infrastructure 
using standardized construction techniques to make the 
transmission of natural gas safer and more efficient. After 
World War II, new welding techniques, along with advances 
in pipe rolling and metallurgy, further improved pipeline 
reliability. This post-war pipeline construction boom lasted 
well into the 1960s, and allowed for the construction of 
thousands of miles of pipeline in America.8 
20 8 Natgas.org: History of Natural Gas
Click here for Table of ContentsToday, natural gas pipelines are the safest, most efficient way 
to transport energy in the United States. EQT and EQM use 
many preventive measures when designing, constructing, and 
operating natural gas pipelines and facilities to ensure the 
safety of residents, employees, and communities along our 
pipeline routes:
Design 
• Comply with local, state, and federal regulations 
• Design facilities consistent with industry standards  
and practices 
• Optimize routes to avoid sensitive areas 
Construction  
• Inspect construction activities to verify acceptable 
installation 
• Test pipelines prior to placing them in-service to  
certify integrity 
• Examine welds to ensure safety 
Operations 
• Monitor, control, and analyze natural gas flow via 24/7  
Gas Control Center
• Mitigate corrosion through maintenance of cathodic 
protection systems, fluid sampling, and flow control 
• Maintain rights-of-way for aerial patrols and routine  
on-site inspections Integrity Management
• Identify high consequence areas along the transmission 
lines based on population and land/building use 
• Create a risk model that prioritizes the high consequence 
areas for integrity assessment 
• Complete specific evaluations, such as corrosion 
investigations and pressure testing, to assure integrity  
of the pipelines
Security 
• On-site security: electronic monitoring, fences, buildings, 
locks, and surveillance
Community Awareness
• Mail safety brochure annually to residents and businesses 
located near pipelines
• Promote national “811 – Call before you dig” program to 
prevent accidents
Both EQT and EQM believe that public safety and environmental 
protection are top priorities for effective pipeline operations 
— and they work diligently to meet or exceed safety standards 
and practices.
Safety  21 Click here for Table of ContentsAs of December 31, 
2015  EQT had 3.4 million acres  
under lease in PA, WV, VA, KY, OH, and TX, 
and more than 12,000 gross 
producing wells.In 1910,  
Equitable Gas, had 440,000 
acres under lease in PA and WV, 
and was operating  
902 wells.A Proud History of Responsible Growth
22 
 Click here for Table of ContentsEnvironmental Stewardship  23ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
EQT has inherited many traits 
from its association with 
George Westinghouse and the 
Philadelphia Company. One of 
those is a commitment to do the 
right things for employees, and 
for the communities in which 
they live and work. Over the 
decades, EQT’s dedication to 
protecting local environments and 
respecting the expectations of its 
growing base of stakeholders has 
enhanced EQT’s reputation as a  
responsible operator.  
At the forefront is EQT’s 
Environment, Health, and Safety 
(EHS) Policy documenting the 
Company’s ongoing pledge to 
pursue workplace safety, and 
strive to preserve and protect 
the air, water, and land near its operations. Senior 
management and the EQT Board of Directors support the 
policy, which applies to all EQT operations, its employees, 
and its contractors and subcontractors. This support 
enables numerous internal processes and procedures 
to evaluate risks and performance, dictates conducting 
regular reviews of compliance with laws and regulations, 
prescribes routine inspection and auditing of facilities, 
and guides the implementation of appropriate changes to 
maintain high performance.
Protecting water, air, and land throughout its operating 
regions is of utmost importance to EQT and its employees. 
To underscore that importance, every EQT employee  
has an annual performance objective that is aligned  
with social responsibility, safety, and environmental 
performance. Backed by an effective EHS management 
system that drives continuous improvement, EQT will not 
compromise safety or environmental protection to gain a 
business advantage.Sustainable 
Operations
In the early days of the natural gas 
industry, workplace safety and 
environmental responsibility were not 
always top priorities. Individuals and 
companies erected rigs wherever they saw 
evidence of oil or natural gas and dotted 
the landscape with vertical wells. 
As the industry developed, inventors like 
Westinghouse created the necessary 
tools and techniques 
to make early natural 
gas production and 
transmission safer. The 
early 20th century saw 
the implementation 
and enforcement of 
laws and regulations to 
protect employees and 
the environment, as well 
as new techniques for 
finding, extracting, and 
transporting natural 
gas. Techniques such 
as horizontal drilling or 
directional drilling, along 
with hydraulic fracturing, opened the door for companies 
like EQT to expand their drilling operations into the deeper, 
and more productive, Marcellus and Utica Shales. These 
techniques also helped our Company produce more gas within 
a smaller environmental footprint, significantly reducing the 
impacts on land and protected natural habitats. 
To bring structure to the Company’s pursuit of integrated 
sustainability and operational excellence, EQT adopted 
the Marcellus Operations Guiding Principles, a set of 
protocols designed to maintain worker safety, protect fresh 
groundwater, and minimize other impacts on the environment. 
Click here for Table of Contents24  
   
July 2016 ..............................................................................................................................................  
................................................................................................................. .............................  
 
 Marcellus Operations Guiding Principles  
FLAMMABLE ATMOSPHERE S 
• Natural gas encountered during drilling is flared or  vented away from the work area  
• During completions and flowback, flammable zones are established in areas where natural gas and 
condensate will be flared or vented  
• Natural gas liquids (condensates) produced during flowback are stored in flammable zones during 
flowback and removed after flowback  
........................................................................................................... ...................................  
HIGH PRESSURE SYSTEM S 
• All equipment and components used in pressurized sys tems are appropriately  rated and capable of 
operating under the maximum rated pressure  
• High pressure pumps and equipment are only used when necess ary and appropriate for the task  
• Equipment used for pressurized services is tested for integrity  
..............................................................................................................................................  
PIT DESIGN & OPE RATION  
• Prior to construction, potential pit locations are evaluated to establish suitability  
• Pits are engineered and designed to be stable and impervious  
• Pits are inspected to establish that they are constructed as designed  
• Inspections are conducted regula rly to evaluate pit integrity  
..............................................................................................................................................  
WELL CONTROL  
• EQT maintains a minimum of two barriers at all times between the open producing formation and the 
atmosphere  
• A responsible person with a well control certification from an accredited training program is on site 
during drilling and completions  
• Blowout preventers are tested prior to being placed into service  
• Remote ac tuators a re maintained for blowout preventers away from the rig and no t tied to the rig 
hydraulic sy stem  
..............................................................................................................................................  
WELL DESIGN & CON STRUCTION  
• Wells are designed to protect fresh groundwater and prevent natural gas  migration  
• Surface casing is installed and the void outside of the casing is filled with cement  
• If cement circulation to the surface is not possible for the surface casing, EQ T installs baskets at 
appropr iate depths and then grouts the  annulus to surface to create a barrier between subsurface 
zones  Where  
energy
meets
innovation.
Click here for Table of ContentsEnvironmental Stewardship  25The Company also began to work with other producers, 
environmental groups, and philanthropic organizations to 
promote standards for safe and sustainable operations in the 
Appalachian Basin. From these and other discussions, the 
Center for Sustainable Shale Development (CSSD) emerged. 
CSSD is an independent 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization 
whose mission is to support continuous improvement and 
innovative practices through performance standards and 
third-party certification. EQT is a founding member of CSSD, 
the Company’s CEO serves on the CSSD Board, and EQT staff 
members participate in the ongoing development of CSSD 
performance standards. 
The initial 15 performance standards for operators are 
protective of air quality, water resources, and climate. 
These standards represent consensus on best practices 
that are achievable and protective of human health and the 
environment. The goal is to ensure that each performance 
standard requires a level of environmental performance that 
exceeds the regulatory minimums established by state and 
federal government. Companies that meet these standards 
can apply to CSSD for independent third-party certification 
— and verification — that their operations adhere to the 
CSSD standards and demonstrate a commitment to integrate 
industry-leading practices into their continuous improvement 
process. The initial certification is valid for two years and a 
recertification audit is required every 24 months.
EQT began the rigorous certification process in July 2015, 
which included in-depth documentation reviews, staff 
interviews at company offices, and a field-based component 
including visits to 18 operating sites to verify that operational 
practices were in conformance with applicable standards. 
CSSD granted full certification to EQT’s Appalachian Basin 
operations in April 2016, making the Company the fourth 
of the founding members to meet or exceed all 15 CSSD 
Performance Standards for environmental stewardship and 
continuous improvement for air and water protection.
Managing Air Emissions
The emergence of natural gas as a source of clean-burning 
and abundant energy in the early 19th century demonstrated 
that it was possible to maintain productivity and still have 
cleaner air. Advances in the industry, and its commitment to 
environmental stewardship, continue to deliver that message. In 1888, industrialized cities like Pittsburgh were coping with 
the smog and related air pollution resulting from the use of 
wood and coal to heat homes, cook food, and power industrial 
machinery. In fact, Pittsburgh’s reputation as the “Smoky 
City” served as a sign of prosperity to many, so enforcement 
of early efforts to reduce air pollution was rare. Today, 
numerous local, state, and federal laws and regulations 
govern environmental responsibility in the United States. 
EQT monitors and reports on the types of air emissions 
that are relevant to its business operations as well as those 
required by state or federal regulations. The Company does 
not establish specific goals or targets for its management 
of greenhouse gases (GHG) because these emissions can 
vary depending upon the type and amount of field activity 
that occurs each year. Instead, EQT pursues continuous 
improvement in those areas that provide the most 
opportunities for GHG reductions. During 2015, the Company’s 
gross direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions were 
1,218,665 metric tons of CO2 equivalent and there were no 
biogenic CO2 equivalent emissions to report. This calculation 
includes CO2 (702,850 metric tons of CO2e), CH4 (52,999 
metric tons of CO2e), and N2O (395 metric tons of CO2e), and is 
independent of any GHG trades such as purchases, sales, or 
transfers of offsets or allowances.
Significant Air Emissions – 2015
Air Emission Type Weight
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 8,905 tons
Sulfur Oxides (Sox) 159.4 tons
Volatile Organic  
Compounds (VOC)1,071 tons
Hazardous Air Pollutants 
(HAP)338.9 tons
Particulate Matter (PM) 166 tons
Other Standard Categories  
of air emissions identified  
in regulationsFormaldehyde =  
37 tons
Carbon Monoxide (CO) = 
3,116 tons
Emissions specific to EQT’s 
shale gas production in PAPA Oil and Gas  
Production Inventory
NOx = 2,888 tons
SOx = 1.8 tons
VOC = 137 tons
HAP = 5.4 tons
PM-10 = 70 tons
PM-2.5 = 68 tons
CO = 904 tons
Click here for Table of Contents26As part of its continuous improvement efforts, EQT has implemented several initiatives to reduce its direct (Scope 1) greenhouse 
gas emissions. The total impact of these reductions varies from year-to-year based on the level of production and midstream 
activity taking place, however, all help to improve air quality in the communities where EQT operates.GHG Emissions by Business Sector – 2015
Business Segment Air Emission Type Weight
EQT Production Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 7.29 tons/Bcfe
Sulfur Oxides (Sox) 0.25 tons/Bcfe
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 0.63 tons/Bcfe
Particulate Matter (PM) 0.37 tons/Bcfe
Emissions Intensity* 766.74 metric tons CO2e/Bcfe
EQT Midstream Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 2.94 tons/Tbtu
Sulfur Oxides (SOx) 0.00 tons/Tbtu
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 0.45 tons/Tbtu
Particulate Matter (PM) 0.06 tons/Tbtu
Emissions Intensity** 492.47 metric tons CO2e/Tbtu
 
*  The ratio denominator for calculating the Production emissions intensity is Total Production Sales Volume
**   The ratio denominator for calculating the Midstream emissions intensity is Total System Throughput  
 (Transmission Volume + Gathering Volume)
Ongoing Greenhouse Gas Reduction Initiatives
Business Segment GHG Reduction Initiative
Production Convert drill rigs from diesel to natural gas
Reduce the number of completions in the Lower Huron Shale
Increase the number of flareless completions in Marcellus shale activity. Currently, EQT 
does not flare or vent hydrocarbons in the production of natural gas at its operating sites.
Directed maintenance and best management practices
Tubing string installation
Conformance with CSSD leak detection and repair standard
EQT Midstream Flash tank separators in glycol dehydrators
Instrument air
Micro turbine generators
Automated control systems
Click here for Table of ContentsEnvironmental Stewardship  27Using Water Wisely
Drilling for natural gas in the late 1800s was not an exact 
science. Producers might notice water bubbling or learn 
that a local resident was using small gas pockets near the 
surface to cook. They would drill a shallow well in the area 
and hope to hit a natural gas pocket. These early prospectors 
knew little about how to locate natural gas reservoirs, how 
to stimulate the flow of gas, how much gas would come out 
of the well, or if the well would produce any gas at all. The 
drilling process was rudimentary, and typically required 
little more than a wooden rig to support the boring tools that 
created the hole in the ground.
Today’s natural gas production process is much more 
sophisticated. The reliance on natural resources such as 
water have changed, but so have the regulatory safeguards  
and the commitments of companies like EQT to protect these 
resources and ensure that production activities have no 
significant or lasting effects. 
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING
With the introduction of horizontal drilling to reach natural 
gas deposits in previously unreachable shale formations came 
the increased use of hydraulic fracturing. Producers began 
using the technology in the 1940s on oil and natural gas wells, 
yet contrary to common belief, it is not the same as drilling. 
The process actually occurs after drilling is complete, helping 
to stimulate the flow of gas from reservoirs 5,000 to 10,000 
feet or more below the surface. 
Hydraulic fracturing relies on significant amounts of water, 
so the safe and responsible use of this critical resource is as 
important to EQT as it is to stakeholders. The fracturing fluid 
consists of water, mixed with sand and a small percentage 
of chemical additives. It is injected under controlled high 
pressure into wells lined with multiple layers of steel and 
cement, known as triple casing, that are designed to prevent 
any contact with groundwater or freshwater aquifers just 
below the surface. The pressure causes the rock formation 
to crack, and the sand particles hold the fractures open, 
allowing the gas to flow up the pipe to the wellhead.In the early part of the 21st century, there was public 
concern about the construction of wells; the methods used 
to stimulate the flow of natural gas to the surface, including 
the identity of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing 
fluid; the sources and amounts of freshwater used; and 
how that water was recycled and reused. With decades of 
knowledge and experience, EQT is leading the industry to 
make improvements in safety and reliability (including the 
implementation of self-imposed standards such as those 
developed by CSSD), exceed regulatory requirements, and 
promote responsible drilling to protect freshwater and other 
natural resources.   
One of the ways that EQT demonstrated its commitment to 
operational transparency was to become one of the first 
natural gas producers in Appalachia to voluntarily disclose 
the content of the hydraulic fracturing fluid used at each of 
its well sites. The Company became a charter participant 
on FracFocus, an independent educational website created 
by the Ground Water Protection Council and the Interstate 
Oil and Gas Compact Commission. FracFocus provides the 
type of information stakeholders need to help separate fact 
from fiction about the water and additives used for natural 
gas development in their communities. EQT updates its 
disclosures regularly, providing the general mixture amounts 
of the fluid used in each of its wells, and explaining the use of 
each chemical additive. 
As part of its continuous improvement process, EQT has 
moved away from the use of diesel additives in its hydraulic 
fracturing fluid, and the Company has significantly reduced 
the amount of other chemicals used in the hydraulic 
fracturing of its wells. Traditional biocides have been replaced 
with environmentally friendly, non-chemical alternatives; acid 
utilization has been reduced by approximately 50%; and the 
use of improved friction-reducing products has significantly 
reduced the amount of this product needed in the fluid.
WATER WITHDRAWALS
Natural gas development activities are water intensive, 
therefore, EQT has implemented numerous processes and 
procedures to ensure compliance with all local, state, and 
federal laws governing the monitoring and withdrawal 
of fresh water. The Company also employs its own 
measurement and monitoring controls to make sure that 
its drilling activities are transparent to stakeholders, and 
have no significant impact on nearby water or other natural 
resources. During 2015, the primary sources of freshwater 
used by EQT were surface water, municipal water, 
and groundwater.  
Click here for Table of Contents28 The largest source of freshwater withdrawn by EQT each year 
is surface water, and during 2015, the Company withdrew more 
than 5 million cubic meters of water from this source. The 
amount increases from year-to-year for a number of reasons:  
• the location and seasonal availability of freshwater may  
not match the location and timing of drilling and 
completions activity
• the completion of more hydraulically fractured wells 
results in greater total water usage
• the use of longer laterals — the horizontal portion of the 
well — requires more water for each completion while at 
the same time minimizes overall surface disturbance
Municipal water, the second largest source of freshwater, is cost 
effective and readily accessible in southwestern Pennsylvania, 
which is where most of EQT’s core drilling activity takes place. 
EQT also made municipal withdrawals in Ohio and West Virginia.During 2015, there was an increase in the use of ground water 
and wastewater.  An increase in Texas completions activity 
caused the use of more ground water from supply wells, 
which is the area’s predominant source of freshwater for gas 
production. With increased completions activity, there is also 
more wastewater available from recycling plants, as well as 
from other producers; therefore, EQT expanded the used of 
wastewater in its operations in 2015.
Rainwater continues to have a minimal effect on EQT’s water 
usage. Many of the Company’s water storage facilities and pits 
passively collect rainwater for use in its operations; however, 
the volumes are low, and there are too many variables to 
accurately measure total usage.
EQT reports its quarterly water usage to regulatory agencies 
in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Texas, and West Virginia. These 
submittals confirm that the amount of freshwater withdrawn 
from any source in each location did not exceed any average 
daily or maximum withdrawal limits, nor did they significantly 
affect any water source.EQT Water Withdrawals – 2015 
Source*Volume (m3)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Surface Water 1,495,418 1,387,075 2,976,947 4,246,554 5,301,649
Municipal Water 506,953 882,077 659,248 769,841 1,650,668
Ground Water 7,972 22,082 41,557 88,208 157,032
Waste Water - - - 14,031 26,71 7
Rain Water - - - - -
Total Water Used 2,010,343 2,291,234 3,677,752 5,118,634 7,136,066
Normalized Freshwater Withdrawal 
(all from natural gas production)0.50m3/boe 0.40m3/boe 0.50m3/boe 0.50m3/boe 0.064m3/boe
*EQT made freshwater withdrawals for horizontal drilling activities in PA, WV, and OH, but none for its TX or VA operations  
Total Water Recycled
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Water Withdrawn 2,010,343 m32,291,234 m33,677,752 m35,118,634 m37,136,066 m3
Recycled Water* N/A 740,947 m3823,778 m31,055,998 m31,769,311 m3
Recycled Water as a Percentage  
of Water WithdrawnN/A 32% 22% 21% 25%
*Includes flowback, drilling water, and produced water collected from drilling operations in PA, WV, and OH  
Click here for Table of ContentsEnvironmental Stewardship  29EQT’s discharges of non-recyclable water took place in 
Kentucky (29,724 m3), West Virginia (40 m3) and 
Virginia (236 m3) during 2015. None of the discharged water 
was reused by another organization. During 2016, EQT is 
investigating the significant increase in flow at the Kentucky 
facility in 2015 (compared to 2014) to determine if the change 
is due to more accurate reporting or an issue with the 
treatment system. However, the Company believes that its 
permitted discharges have not significantly affected any  
water body on, or adjacent to, any of its drilling operations.
Location Volume of 
DischargesVolume of 
EffluentsTreatment Method Standards and Methodologies
Kentucky 29,724 m37,852,320 
gallonsEQT treats water to meet the 
discharge standards of the 
Kentucky Pollutant Discharge 
Elimination System. 
The process pretreats water with 
an oil skimmer, and then runs 
it through an activated carbon 
filtration system.A third-party contractor samples water 
every month and tests it using appropriate 
EPA methodology as prescribed by 
Kentucky discharge permit conditions. EQT 
reports these results on a monthly basis via 
netDMR, a web-based application that allows 
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination 
System (NPDES) permittee users to enter 
and electronically submit a Discharge 
Monitoring Report data to the EPA.  
The volumes discharged are based on the 
day of sampling.
Virginia 236 m369,600 
gallonsWater goes through a filtration 
system and then is disinfected 
using UV light prior to discharge 
into a local creek.EQT maintains a permitted sanitary sewer 
system at its Big Stone Gap warehouse 
in Virginia. A third-party contractor 
maintains the treatment system and 
services it monthly. Filters are monitored 
using differential pressure to indicate 
change out requirements and the UV light 
system has built-in redundancy to ensure 
disinfection of all discharge water. The 
contractor replaces wear components 
according to the recommended 
maintenance schedule, or as needed.
West 
Virginia40 m310,573 
gallonsWater goes through the  
treat-ment system at EQT’s 
Comet Compressor Station via  
a carbon filtration system.Per EQT’s NPDES permit, monitoring of 
the effluent is not required.Wastewater Treatment Methods – 2015Recycling and Responsible 
Waste Management
EQT continually strives to increase the total volume of 
wastewater that it recycles. During 2015, the Company 
collected nearly all of the flowback, drilling, and produced 
water resulting from the completion of its wells, and in turn 
reused most of it to produce new wells. Improvements for 
collecting and reusing this water actually led to a slight 
increase in the ratio of withdrawn to reused water during 
2015 (when compared to 2013 and 2014).
Click here for Table of Contents30 Volume and Disposition  
of Produced Water – 2015 
Volume (m3) Percentage (%)
Total Volume of 
Produced Water1,749,550 -
Reused 1,422,131 81.29
Disposed by 
Injection Well279,227 15.96
Disposed by 
Solidification in 
Land Fill507 0.03
Disposed at a 
Recycling Facility47,685 2.72EQT Disposal Methods (all waste types) – 2015
Disposal Methods Type of Waste Volume Disposed
Reuse Flowback, drill pit, and production liquids from Marcellus/Utica operations 11,128,631 bbls
Production liquid from conventional operations 16,709 bbls
Deep Well Injection Flowback, drill pit and production liquids from Marcellus/Utica operations 1,536,283 bbls
Production fluid from conventional operations 19,900 bbls
Texas (brine) 791,313 bbls
Kentucky 84,699 bbls
Recycling Northern West Virginia (oil) 125.0 tons
Kentucky and Virginia (oil) 793.8 tons
Southern West Virginia (oil) 115.2 tons
Pennsylvania (oil) 57.4 tons
Landfill Pennsylvania 
(general plant trash, off-spec products, contaminated soil, brine, drill 
fluids, drill cuttings, and hydraulic fracturing fluids)
EQT submits annual 26r Chemical Analysis of Residual Waste reports to the Pennsylvania 
Department of Environmental Protection to satisfy regulatory waste reporting 
requirements. The operator solidifies fluids received before placing them in the landfill.157,316 tons
Northern West Virginia  
(well pad liners, trash, petroleum contaminated soil and solids)2,272 tons
Southern West Virginia 32.6 tons
Texas 26.9 tons
Other TEG (PA) 53.5 tons
Recovery Petroleum contaminated solids 44 tons
Incineration Paint waste, capacitors/packaging material, paint waste, PCB oil 1.14 tons
On-Site Storage Not applicable to EQT Operations -
Composting Not applicable to EQT Operations -
EQT is focused on identifying waste disposal methods that help 
to reduce ecological impact as well as organizational costs. 
When produced water is no longer suitable for recycling, EQT 
disposes of it in state- and federally permitted facilities.
Solid waste, such as drill mud and cuttings, are another 
by-product of the drilling process. Disposal methods vary 
and EQT seeks to balance the environmental impacts of each 
option in order to select the most efficient, responsible, and 
cost-effective disposal methods possible. The priority is to 
reuse or recycle, but sometimes landfills, deep well injection, 
or other approved methods represent options that are more 
appropriate. Regardless of the disposal method used, 
EQT complies with all regulatory requirements, including 
de Minimis thresholds for waste reporting. 
Click here for Table of ContentsEnvironmental Stewardship  31Sustainable Land  
Management
Like water, land plays a huge role in EQT’s daily activities. 
With approximately 3.4 million gross acres owned or under 
its control, the Company is keenly aware of its responsibility 
to minimize the impact of its operations on land near its 
exploration, production, gathering, and transmission activity. 
This includes area with high biodiversity value. EQT also 
understands its responsibility to work with property owners 
to restore their land — as close as possible — to its original 
condition after Company operations are complete.    
MANAGING AND PREVENTING SPILLS
EQT defines a significant spill as one requiring notification to 
state or federal officials. As defined by GRI, a spill of more than 
100 barrels (bbls) is considered significant. During 2015, EQT 
experienced 57 reportable spills (all below 100 bbls each) with 
a total volume of 438.65 bbls. Of the total, there were 14 spills of 
more than one barrel each, containing 239.92 bbls of hydrocarbons; 
and six spills of more than one barrel each that contained non-
hydrocarbons. There were no significant hydrocarbon or non-
hydrocarbon spills from third parties, and none of the 57 spills 
required disclosure in Company financial statements.
EQT maintains Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure  
(SPCC) plans for every worksite that stores fluid. The design 
of these comprehensive plans help the Company minimize 
the chance for a release, as well as dictate the actions 
required should a spill occur. The plans also define the training  
programs, inspection protocols, secondary containment 
monitoring, and repair programs required at every EQT 
natural gas well and compressor station.
The typical emergency response and preparedness program 
outlines the following action items if an incident occurs:
• Determine the source and type of spill, and begin taking 
corrective action
• Evacuate any employees requiring medical attention
• Isolate the area and stop the spill as soon as possible using 
appropriate methods
• Contain the spill with available resources, including 
containment ditches, diking, and Spill Kits (complete with 
absorbent booms, pads, pillows, and personal protective 
equipment); EQT does not use chemical dispersants
• Notify the immediate supervisor or Area Manager,  
and the Environmental Coordinator, of all spills and also 
complete an environmental incident investigation form
• Perform, or observe, proper cleanup measures as  
directed by the Environmental CoordinatorEQT uses appropriate and effective cleanup measures to 
remediate the spill quickly, including any affected soil, 
resulting in the effective absorption and/or removal of the 
spill. Removing and disposing of the cleanup materials 
promptly — according to prevailing federal, state, and local 
regulatory requirements — results in minimal impacts on the 
environment or the local community.  
After each incident, EQT’s standard procedure is to evaluate 
the cause of the spill to identify and implement corrective 
action. The Company integrates the resulting improved 
techniques and protocols into design standards, operations, 
and future spill prevention plans, and shares them with its 
employees and contractors to prevent recurrences. 
BIODIVERSITY
During 2015, EQT owned or leased approximately 1,557 
square kilometers of active acreage in legally protected 
areas such as wetlands, federal lands, and national parks, 
for extraction activities in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, 
Kentucky, and Virginia. The Company endeavors to avoid 
drilling inside these types of sensitive areas, and has not done 
so in several years, including during 2015. As a result, EQT 
has experienced no direct or indirect impacts on biodiversity 
in protected areas, or in areas of high biodiversity value 
outside protected areas.
EQT Acreage Leased or  
Owned in Protected Areas – 2015
Location Wetlands
Sq. kmFederal Land and Parks
Sq. km
Kentucky 15 1,17 0
Ohio 3 -
Pennsylvania 7 79
Virginia 7 143
West Virginia 10 123
Total 42 1,515
On those occasions when EQT operates on land adjacent 
to protected areas, the Company’s expertise in horizontal 
drilling has enabled it to drill directionally to extract 
natural gas from below without disturbing the surface or 
the indigenous species that call these areas home. Another 
advantage of horizontal drilling is that it allows EQT to drill 
multiple natural gas wells on a single pad. This significantly 
benefits the local environment by reducing the amount of 
disturbance to land and local species.
Click here for Table of Contents32 Whether conducting extraction activities near protected 
land, or areas of high biodiversity value, EQT follows all 
federal, state, and local regulations to ensure the protection 
of existing species and habitats. The Company does not use 
international registries such as the IUCN Red List, preferring 
to use various domestic environmental registries to identify 
potential impacts to threatened, endangered, and special 
concern species or resources near the Company’s potential 
operating sites. Upon identifying these species or habitats, 
EQT’s first goal is to avoid them; if that is not possible, the 
Company works with the appropriate agencies in each state  
to develop and execute protection plans.
In one West Virginia example, EQT learned that the Indiana 
Bat and several species of freshwater mussels resided in 
or near streams close to the Company’s operating areas. 
As part of the permitting process, EQT conducted studies in 
these areas to confirm whether these species were present in 
potential drilling sites, and where found, began to develop the 
appropriate steps to protect the species and their habitats. In 
Pennsylvania, EQT uses the Pennsylvania Natural Diversity 
Inventory Environmental Review tool (PNDI ER).9 Using this 
online database, the Company can search specific areas of 
interest within the state for potential impacts to threatened, 
endangered, or special concern species and resources. If 
the search uncovers a potential impact to a species, EQT 
coordinates with the appropriate agencies to conduct a habitat 
survey or implement avoidance or mitigation measures before 
any operations activity begins. Several species have been 
protected this way, including the Northern Long-eared Myotis 
bat, the Torrey’s Rush wildflower, the Harbinger-of-Spring 
wildflower, and the Four-angled spike-rush plant. Energy Conservation
When the natural gas industry was in its infancy, most 
companies were more concerned about finding adequate and 
reliable sources of energy than about conserving that energy. 
Today, companies understand that making wise choices can 
have a positive impact on the environment, their employees, and 
their bottom line. EQT continually investigates ways to reduce its 
energy consumption in the office, on the job site, and on the road.
FACILITIES
In the areas where EQT has facilities, the primary sources for 
production of electricity are coal, natural gas, and nuclear power. 
EQT facilities used a total of 14,618 gigajoules of direct  energy 
during 2015. The primary source of that energy was natural gas. 
Although EQT increased its square footage of occupied space in 
2015, its total direct energy use for heating decreased by 5%.  
The Company also consumed 29,333 gigajoules of indirect  
energy in 2015 in the form of electricity used to power lighting, 
cooling, computers, audio/video, and other support equipment. 
This represents a 9% increase over the Company’s 2014 indirect 
energy consumption. Leasing an additional 100,000 square feet of 
office space in 2015 resulted in a portion of this; however, EQT’s 
actual indirect energy costs per square foot decreased by 8% on a 
per square foot basis.
From 2014 to 2015, EQT’s total energy consumption rose only 
4% to 4,951 gigajoules, even though the Company acquired 
more office space and experienced a 7% increase in total 
heating and cooling degree days. Measured on a per square 
foot basis, EQT’s energy conservation efforts resulted in a 
12% decrease in total energy consumed.
Although EQT leases many of its facilities and cannot always 
choose a more efficient energy source, the Company continues 
to identify ways of reducing its overall energy consumption 
wherever possible. A significant portion of those reduction 
efforts come from preventive maintenance and equipment 
upgrades. For example, when the Company makes renovations 
to its office spaces, it installs more energy-efficient lighting 
fixtures and motion sensors to control lighting in unoccupied 
spaces such as conference rooms, offices, hallways, kitchens, 
and bathrooms. Where possible, the Company also uses 
night and weekend setbacks to power down displays on 
office equipment, and lower ambient temperatures during 
low occupancy periods. In facilities owned by EQT, new boiler 
systems, programmable thermostats, and lighting systems 
have also helped reduce total consumption. 
9 PNDI ER is a function of the Pennsylvania Natural Heritage 
Program, a partnership between the Pennsylvania Department of 
Conservation and Natural Resources, the Western Pennsylvania 
Conservancy, the Pennsylvania Game Commission, and the 
 Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission
Click here for Table of ContentsEnvironmental Stewardship  33VEHICLES
In the early days of the natural gas industry, transportation 
options were limited. Products arriving by steamboat or 
railroad required ground transport to work sites via horse-
drawn carts or carriages. Most employees lived very close to 
their place of employment and chose to walk, ride a horse, 
or eventually bicycle to work. As cities expanded outward 
during the early 1900s, the distance from home to work also 
increased, so new options to transport people and goods 
in a timely manner became a necessity. The introduction of 
electric streetcars and affordable automobiles with internal 
combustion engines transformed travel; however, it also 
created new and different environmental issues.
Today, EQT actively pursues ways to identify cleaner-burning 
and more efficient alternatives to carbon rich fuels, providing 
a reduction in the environmental impacts associated with 
transporting materials and employees to its job sites. Using 
Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) as a fuel source for fleet 
vehicles is one of the ways that EQT has significantly reduced 
its overall emissions. EQT fleet vehicles used by Production 
and Midstream business segments drive millions of miles 
every year. In 2011, all of EQT’s fleet vehicles used gasoline 
or diesel as transportation fuels. In 2012, the Company began 
converting some of its vehicles to use CNG; however, total 
consumption was only 11,776 gasoline gallon equivalents 
(GGEs). By 2015, CNG usage by the EQT fleet rose to 73,773 
in GGEs. Through the emphasis on using CNG as a primary 
or secondary fuel, total EQT fleet emissions have maintained 
a consistent level despite an increasing vehicle count. 
In 2016, EQT is focusing on reducing the total number of 
vehicles in its fleet, which will contribute to an overall 
reduction in emissions.
EQT Transportation Impacts: 2011 – 2015
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Fleet Vehicles (#) 1,136 1,150 1,236 1,294 1,369
Gasoline Used (gallons) 1,621,856 1,563,619 1,580,855 1,628,111 1,633,852
Diesel Used (gallons) 1 76,499 1 73,157 166,641 152,362 138,064
CNG Used (GGEs) - 11,776 23,010 61,363 73,773
CO2 Emissions (metric tons) 1 7,670 17,13 7 17, 317 17, 910 1 7,900
CH4 Emissions  
(metric tons)0.54 0.52 0.58 0.59 0.59
N2O Emissions (metric tons) 0.29 0.28 0.31 0.32 0.32
Note: All statistics exclude Equitable Gas Company, which was sold in December 2013GREEN DRILLING AND COMPLETIONS
Several years ago, EQT began testing technology that would 
allow it to significantly reduce, if not eliminate, the venting 
or flaring of natural gas as the well is prepared for connec-
tion to the pipeline system. This process, known as ‘green 
completions’ enables EQT to capture the gas that initially 
flows from the well by extending the pipeline to the well site 
before completions begins. The system immediately receives 
any gas released, significantly reducing methane emissions. 
Today, EQT uses green completions — as defined by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency — for all of its Marcellus 
and Utica wells, resulting in zero flared volume during 2015.
EQT took its utilization of green drilling techniques a step 
further by exploring the use of natural gas as a primary fuel 
for its drill rigs and other completion equipment. In 2012, the 
Company began piloting the use of rigs powered by field gas, 
which is unprocessed natural gas that comes directly from 
a nearby well via the existing gathering lines. These natural 
gas-powered rigs provided many benefits including: reducing 
the emissions of carbon dioxide by 20% to 30% compared to 
their diesel counterparts; producing a fraction of the nitrogen 
oxides, sulfur oxides, and particulates; and eliminating much 
of the noise and truck traffic associated with delivering diesel 
fuel to power traditional drilling equipment.
EQT has steadily increased its use of drilling rigs powered 
by field gas, from three rigs in 2013 to seven of the nine rigs 
used during 2015. The Company has also started a program to 
convert hydraulic fracturing equipment to natural gas. During 
2015, two of the nine completions crews working at EQT wells 
used natural gas capable equipment, and a third crew made 
the switch in 2016.
Click here for Table of ContentsIn 2016,  EQT awarded five  
$7,500 scholarships to children of  
active employees.In 1966,  Equitable Gas 
Company awarded one 
$1,000 scholarship to the son or 
daughter of a regular employee.Valuing Employees and Their Families
34 
 Click here for Table of Contents5
Social Responsibility  35SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Local communities continue to be essential to the success 
and long-term growth of EQT’s business operations. As  
the Company transformed its business model from that of 
a gas utility to being a leader in natural gas development 
and production, EQT’s commitment to local communities 
remained stead-fast. History has shown that without the 
trust, patience, cooperation, and 
support of these communities, EQT 
would not be able to hire thousands 
of employees, spend millions of 
dollars with local businesses  
(who hire local residents), or 
contribute to the economic growth 
of the cities and towns within its 
business footprint. 
Stakeholder  
Engagement
EQT understands the importance of 
developing and maintaining open 
and honest dialogue with those who 
are most interested in, and affected 
by, the Company’s operations. 
EQT’s stakeholders are diverse and 
their specific areas of interest or 
concern vary widely, however, they 
expect to receive transparent and 
meaningful communications from 
the Company — and EQT strives to 
deliver. With decades of experience 
in working one-on-one with various 
stakeholders, EQT understands 
the importance of allowing stakeholders to express their 
concerns and stay informed about Company operations. EQT 
defines its key stakeholder groups as follows:
• Investors
• Employees
• Residents of Communities Near Operations• Landowners/Royalty Owners/Joint Interest Partners/
Midstream Customers
• Emergency Service Professionals
• Elected Officials
• Regulators
•    Non-Government Organizations (NGOs)
• Nonprofit Organizations  
 and Charities
• Suppliers
• News Media/Industry Analysts
• Industry Trade Associations
EQT monitors stakeholder 
interests as related to Company 
operations, as well as that of the 
broader natural gas industry. This 
engagement is part of the day-
to-day continuous improvement 
efforts of the Company, and not 
something initiated solely for 
reporting purposes. The chart on 
page 36, “Stakeholder Audiences 
and Activities - 2015,” illustrates 
EQT’s integrated engagement 
strategies and frequencies for each 
stakeholder group.
Many of EQT’s stakeholders share 
similar concerns about the natural 
gas industry or about how EQT 
conducts its business operations,  
however, individual groups may also 
have specific concerns. Experience 
and ongoing dialogue have enabled 
the Company to develop specific 
response methods to meet the diverse expectations, and 
preferred methods of delivery, for these stakeholders.   
The chart on page 37, “Stakeholder Inquiries and Response 
Methods - 2015,” details EQT’s integrated response methods 
to stakeholder inquiries.
Click here for Table of ContentsStakeholder Audiences and Activities – 2015
Stakeholder 
GroupEngagement Approaches Frequency
Investors Earnings releases, SEC filings, investor teleconferences 
and meetings, investor relations contacts, annual  
proxy statement and shareholder meeting, Corporate 
Secretary contact listed on the EQT, EQGP, and EQM 
investor websitesAs needed; however, at least once 
each quarter
Employees Print, electronic and video communications, employee 
staff meetings, intranet, electronic employee newsletters, 
lunch and learn seminars, volunteer activities, surveys, 
formal reporting channels, ethics compliance hotlineDaily
Communities/
Residents/
Emergency 
Service 
PersonnelFace-to face meetings with EQT Local Government and 
Community Affairs Specialists, facility and rig tours, 
community meetings, open houses and community 
appreciation events, public safety communications, 
phone hotlines to report problems or provide feedback, 
community relationship building, philanthropic giving 
programs, sponsorships, surveys, advertising, drilling 
and completion activity locations distributed weekly 
to local emergency service professionals, toll-free 
community outreach hotline Access to region-specific Local 
Government and Community Affairs 
Specialists is available as needed or 
requested 
Phone Hotlines, email, corporate 
websites, Facebook and YouTube are 
available 24/7
Facility and rig tours, public 
safety communications, and other 
interactions scheduled upon request
Community meetings and open 
houses scheduled as needed
Advertising, event sponsorships, and 
presentations
Focus Groups and surveys conducted 
as needed
Landowners/
Royalty Owners/
Joint Interest 
Partners/
Midstream 
CustomersPersonal meetings, letters, access to Company landmen, 
open houses, public meetings, toll-free royalty hotline, 
online customer portals for account accessContinuous – as needed or requested
Elected Officials 
and RegulatorsPolicy discussions, Political Action Committee, frequent 
meetings with national and state regulators, local 
municipal leaders and lobbyists, and membership in trade 
associationsContinuous – as needed or requested
Non-
governmental 
organizations 
(NGOs)Project partnerships, reporting on environmental, 
economic and social topics, philanthropic giving, 
accessibility to dialogues, environmental assessmentsContinuous – as needed or requested
Nonprofit 
organizations 
and charitiesPersonal meetings, internet, access to EQT Foundation Continuous – as needed or requested
Suppliers/
ContractorsCommercial relationships, websites, request-for-proposal 
process, training sessions, trade shows, chamber of 
commerce memberships, supplier diversity initiatives, 
including matchmaker events with prime suppliersContinuous – as needed or requested
News media/
Industry 
analystsNews releases, website-based Media HQ, phone calls, 
e-mail exchanges, meetings, interviews, trade shows, 
speaking engagements by executives and senior managersAs needed or requested
36 Click here for Table of ContentsAddressing  
Community Concerns
The Haymaker brothers had no idea that their little “oil well” 
would have such a profound impact on their community in 
Murrysville, Pennsylvania, or on the rest of the country. Once 
the news spread, the importance of effective communications 
became apparent.
Over the years, community interactions have taken on greater 
importance as the Company strives to grow responsibly while 
minimizing the number of public disagreements associated 
with current, planned, or proposed operations. During 
2015 EQT, and its affiliate EQT Midstream Partners, were 
involved with four significant disputes resulting from actual 
operations, or proposed growth strategies. The chart on page 
38 details each of these disputes.Stakeholder Inquiries and Response Methods – 2015
Topic/Concern Response Methods
What is involved in 
drilling a well?Informative videos posted to YouTube: How We Develop a Well, Addressing Our Neighbors 
Concerns – Well Safety, EQT Horizontal Drilling animation, Presentations 
What is in the 
fracking fluid?Fluid compositions for each well posted to the http://www.fracfocus.org/public database
Employment 
OpportunitiesJob openings posted on www.eqt.com and other major job sites, participation in college 
recruiting and regional job fairs, participation in industry career fairs
Safety Routine meetings with municipal leaders, fire departments, EMS managers, EQT Guiding 
Principles, and Environmental, Health, and Safety policy published on www.eqt.com 
Investor inquiries Information posted on EQT, EQGP, and EQM Investor Relations sites, quarterly earning 
calls, replays, and transcripts, meetings with institutional investors, annual meeting of 
shareholders 
Landowner Relations Personal meetings, letters, telephone calls, direct access to Company landmen, open houses, 
public meetings, information and contacts posted on www.eqt.com, online owner relations 
portal for existing royalty/leaseholders and midstream customers, Informative videos posted 
to YouTube: Addressing Our Neighbors Concerns – Land,  Addressing Our Neighbors Concerns 
– Noise, How We Develop a Well
Land and Water 
PreservationDescriptive videos posted to YouTube: Addressing Our Neighbors Concerns – Land, Addressing 
Our Neighbors Concerns – Water, How We Develop a Well 
Pipeline Safety Informative video posted to YouTube: Addressing Our Neighbors Concerns – Pipeline Safety, 
annual mailing to residents and businesses along pipeline right of ways describing pipeline 
safety procedures/contacts
Emissions Descriptive video posted to YouTube: How We Develop a Well
Roads/Noise/ Local 
concernsRegion-specific Local Government and Community Affairs Specialists maintain regular 
contact with township and municipal authorities to address concerns raised by local residents 
about EQT operations
Charitable Giving EQT Foundation information and procedures posted on www.eqt.com, EQT Foundation 
Manager available via phone or email to address specific inquiries, Local Government and 
Community Affairs Specialists can field inquiries regarding smaller local giving opportunities
Social Responsibility  37 Click here for Table of ContentsEQT understands that its operations can and do affect nearby 
communities — especially in terms of traffic, road impact, 
noise, dust, and lights. The Company’s pre-construction 
planning, which includes the review of activity in similar 
locations and evaluation of direct stakeholder feedback, 
enhances its high level of awareness about community 
concerns. EQT uses this knowledge to establish policies 
and procedures designed to minimize, or eliminate, most 
operational issues before they become disputes.
In order to protect and maintain EQT’s corporate reputation, 
the Company commits significant time and resources working 
with communities to reduce nuisances and provide timely, 
accurate, and proactive communications. The Company’s 
Local Government and Community Affairs Specialists 
(formerly known as Community Advisors) are EQT employees 
based regionally near Company operations, and they are responsible for establishing and maintaining relationships 
with civic organizations, elected officials, emergency 
response personnel, business owners, residents, and other 
local stakeholders. The Local Government and Community 
Affairs Specialists also: 
• Gather information to help EQT identify local concerns 
before they inconvenience neighbors
• Advocate for the community by ensuring that issues or 
concerns are addressed at the appropriate level within  
the Company and ultimately achieve resolution
• Act as a conduit for suggesting ways to strengthen 
Company processes and procedures
• Provide a local point of contact for residents to learn  
about current or future projects and how they may affect 
their communitiesSignificant Disputes with Local Communities – 2015
Project Description Dispute Why 
significant*Actions/Outcomes
Mountain 
Valley 
PipelineMountain Valley 
Pipeline is a proposed 
300-mile pipeline 
facility. EQT Midstream 
Partners is a significant 
partner in this project.There is 
established 
opposition to the 
proposed project 
due to water, 
environmental, 
and property 
rights concernsSignificant 
media 
coverage, 
organized 
opposition to 
the projectEQT Midstream Partners has 
worked to route the pipeline in an 
accommodating manner for property 
owners; additional efforts to avoid 
environmental, historical, and cultural 
areas is also underway; the project is 
currently under FERC review
Churchill 
Drilling 
OperationsThe proposed drilling 
pad in Churchill — a 
non-core drilling area 
— met with strong and 
organized opposition 
in eastern Allegheny 
County, PA Local residents 
expressed concern 
with the site’s 
planned location 
near homesSignificant 
local media 
coverageA strategic decision was made to focus 
new development in core operating 
areas only, which ended the proposed 
development in Churchill
Bickerton 
Drilling 
OperationThe proposed drilling 
pad met strong and 
organized opposition 
in southern Allegheny 
County, PALocal residents 
expressed concern 
with the site’s 
planned location 
near homes and 
a proposed new 
school>12 affected or 
involvedThe proposed pad development 
continued until the local municipality 
rejected the drilling permit application; 
EQT appealed the decision and won the 
appeal; the local municipality then filed 
its own appeal, resulting in an automatic 
stay; EQT is deciding whether to pursue 
vacation of the stay, or allow the appeal 
process to proceed to decision .
Bass 
Compressor 
StationThis station has been 
the recipient of noise 
complaints from a 
nearby neighborhoodNoise and 
vibration  
complaints>12 neighbors 
affectedEQT met or was below the township 
ordinance for noise and additional 
improvements have successfully 
lowered noise levels even further, 
EQT continues to work with neighbors 
still impacted by activity at the 
compressor station and will continue 
to develop permanent solutions for 
sound mitigation
* EQT defines a significant dispute as one that receives sustained media coverage, has organized opposition, or 
involves/affects more than 12 peopl e
38 Click here for Table of ContentsThe Local Government and Community Affairs Specialists 
maintain an internal issues tracking database that records 
all aspects of an issue from identification to resolution. The 
database also serves as a means to escalate community 
issues upward within EQT, and provides lessons learned 
to avoid recurrences of the issue in other communities. 
EQT analyzes the results annually to identify trends in 
performance, benchmark against previous data, and help 
determine potential revisions to the management approach.
In 2015, EQT management began a thorough evaluation 
of issues/concerns related to its natural gas development 
opportunities. More specifically, the objective was to 
proactively determine how EQT’s operations might affect 
nearby residents and businesses in more densely populated 
areas. By analyzing existing data, the Company developed a 
list of Urban Drilling Qualifiers , that were then added to the 
Examples of Community Issues Handled by the  
Local Government and Community Affairs Specialists
Issue Methods of Remediation
Construction 
Traffic Speed• Third-party monitoring by private road agents who possess law enforcement backgrounds and use 
radar-equipped vehicles so they can pull over construction traffic violating local speed limits
• Work with neighborhood school districts to establish when buses are picking up or dropping off 
students along a road shared with construction traffic, and install signage restricting truck traffic 
during the posted times 
• Establish EQT self-imposed speed limits on bonded routes and install speed limit signs 
• Remove contractors who repeatedly violate traffic restrictions from EQT job sites 
Construction 
Traffic Noise• Carefully consider staging areas and hauling route to minimize disturbance
• Establish EQT self-imposed speed limits on bonded routes and install speed limit signs 
• Use centralized impoundments and temporary fresh water lines to reduce water truck traffic 
• Encourage limited engine brake usage when safe and post appropriate signage
Construction 
Traffic 
Frequency• Carefully consider staging areas and hauling route to minimize disturbance
• Work with local school district to establish bus curfews, and install signage restricting truck traffic 
during posted times
• Use centralized impoundments and temporary fresh water lines to reduce water truck traffic 
Noise from 
Drilling and 
Completions 
Activity• Consider using sound walls 
• Consider using dual-fuel natural gas drilling rigs and hydraulic fracturing crew to reduce diesel 
engine use and noise 
• Consider holiday curfew periods
Road 
Impact and 
Maintenance• Frequent monitoring of routes and road conditions surrounding operations by Local Government 
and Community Affairs Specialists, as well as the EQT construction department
• Pre-construction meetings with township, and continued updates at monthly meetings, or more 
frequently if necessary
• Ongoing maintenance during the operations phase to keep roadways safe and passable
• Milling and overlay of roads after operations are complete
• Dust control via watering truck, and self-imposed speed limits
Road Impact 
by Multiple 
Users• Local Government and Community Affairs Specialists work with EQT business units, state highway 
departments, and other companies using the same roads, to establish a cost sharing structure for 
multiple users
Social Responsibility  39current field process for evaluating potential drilling pad 
locations. EQT established criteria for each of the qualifiers 
that help determine the type of mitigation required and, in 
some cases, can even eliminate the site from development 
consideration. Qualifiers include determining:
• Distance from schools, places of worship, shopping 
centers, and other public gathering spaces
• Existing condition of roads leading to the proposed site
• Existing competitor projects near the site that might be 
sharing the same roads and community resources
• Local political climate, including ordinances restricting 
drilling activity or organized opposition from neighbors
As an element of continuous improvement, and with a 
desire to expand business operations in a responsible 
manner, EQT will continue to consider stakeholder needs 
and concerns as it further refines its approaches to local 
community engagement.
Click here for Table of ContentsCommunity Investment
In the first decades of EQT’s existence under the Equitable 
Gas Company name, friendly and efficient service to its 
communities was a priority. The company built modern district 
offices throughout its service area to enable customers to 
interact with Company employees when paying their utility bills, 
buying gas appliances, or obtaining answers to their questions. 
The Friendship Cottage, which was Equitable’s home service 
center in downtown Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, provided a ready 
source of information and assistance to local residents. 
Today, the services have changed — the Company no 
longer sells appliances or is in the gas utility business 
— and the means of communicating with, and investing 
in, local communities has evolved, yet EQT’s commitment 
remains constant. Most EQT employees live in or near the 
communities where they work, and the Company shares their 
interest in preserving the lifestyles and economic viability of 
their neighborhoods. That is why during 2015 EQT, and its 
charitable affiliate, the EQT Foundation, invested more than 
$19.1 million in communities throughout the Company’s  
six-state operating area. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania encourages businesses 
that pay corporate taxes to invest in educational programs 
benefiting local schoolchildren by allocating tax credits 
to businesses donating funds to approved programs. The 
Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic 
Development is the administrator of the Educational 
Improvement Tax Credit Program, determining how much 
each company receives in tax credits, and what educational 
programs are eligible to receive donations. Grant recipients 
in 2015 included the Armstrong School District Foundation, 
the Community Foundation of Greene County, Reading is 
Fundamental, the Urban League of Greater Pittsburgh, and 
the Washington County Community Foundation.
County fairs, community festivals, and the sponsorship 
of local events also help EQT bond with its neighbors and 
enhance the quality of life of the residents. Everything from 
local fireworks displays to arts festivals, musical concerts, 
and the signature EQT Three Rivers Regatta have provided 
opportunities for local residents to get to know the Company 
and its employees.
Local giving by EQT ranges from small donations to support 
local volunteer fire departments to larger grants helping 
local communities complete necessary projects that 
exceed the limits of their local budgets. Examples of these 
larger contributions include $10,000 for an emergency-
helicopter landing zone in Morgan Township, Greene County, 
Pennsylvania, $10,000 to the Washington County City Mission 
to help with repairs due to a fire, and $7,000 to the City of 
Pennsboro, West Virginia, to help with a painting project for 
the city municipal building.
Although most small donations are less than $2,500 each, 
EQT senior management must approve every request, 
regardless of the amount. This ensures that contributions 
do not support illegal or otherwise inappropriate activities, 
nor individuals or local authorities with decision-making 
responsibilities regarding EQT’s current or future operations.
The EQT Foundation, a separate 501(c)(3) organization continues 
to increase its support of local communities, awarding more than 
$5 million to support local programming in Education, the Arts, 
Environmental Stewardship, and Community Development. The 
Foundation periodically adjusts its funding priorities to ensure 
that its funding strategy matches the evolving needs of the 
communities where EQT and its affiliates operate. Contributions 
from EQT and from the EQT Foundation are restricted to 
organizations located within the United States, specifically those 
communities near the Company’s active operations. Examples of 
EQT Foundation 2015 grant recipients include:EQT Community Investments – 2015
EQT 
CorporationEQT 
Foundation
Educational 
Improvement Tax 
Credit Grants  
(PA only)$366,666
Local Giving $333,900
County Fairs and 
Festival$105,000
Sponsorships and 
Other Community 
Events$527,390
Roads and 
Infrastructure 
Improvements$12,672,057
Grants and 
Contributions$5,143,937
Total Community 
Investments$19,148,950
Note: Community investments are limited to EQT’s 
current operating footprint 
40 Click here for Table of Contents•   The American Cancer Association supports EQT’s 
signature Have a Heart…Save a Life program teaching 
seventh graders to perform Cardio-Pulmonary 
Resuscitation (CPR)
•   WQED Multimedia to support EQT’s signature Young 
Writers Contest, a partnership with local Public 
Broadcasting Service (PBS) stations in Pennsylvania, 
Ohio, and West Virginia to encourage elementary school 
students to create and illustrate original stories
•   West Virginia Students of Excellence Scholarships program 
that provides a $1,000 non-renewable scholarship to one 
student in each of West Virginia’s 55 counties, as well as 
six four-year scholarships to students pursuing degrees  
in fields relevant to the natural gas industry
• Rebuilding Together Roanoke
• Virginia Symphony Orchestra
• Operation Warm
• The Pittsburgh Symphony
• The Mountaineer Food Bank
• The Foundation for Ohio River Education
• The Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy
• The Allegheny Land Trust
• WV Black Heritage Festival
• Greater Pittsburgh Literacy Council
• Main Street Farmers Market
• Indiana Arts Council
• West Virginia Women Work
• Project Discovery of Virginia
• YMCA of Greater Pittsburgh
• NAACP Washington Branch
Governance policies are also in place at the EQT Foundation to 
ensure that its grants comply with U.S. laws and regulations 
applicable to corporate foundations. The EQT Foundation’s Executive Operating Committee reviews all funding proposals 
submitted by nonprofit organizations within EQT’s operating 
footprint, and makes recommendations to a separate EQT 
Foundation Board of Directors for approval. To learn more, 
visit the EQT Foundation website.
Truck traffic associated with EQT’s operations has a 
significant impact on the roads near its active drilling pads, 
and subsequently, the quality of life for local communities, so 
the Company collaborates with affected counties to mitigate 
the burden on these local economies. During 2015, most of 
EQT’s drilling activities occurred in Pennsylvania and West 
Virginia, where the Company invested more than $12 million 
to improve roads and associated infrastructure in affected 
communities in these two states.
Public Policy
As the natural gas industry began to grow in the late 1880s, 
local governments recognized the necessity for oversight to 
ensure that the needs of their citizens and businesses were 
not lost. The Philadelphia Company (EQT’s predecessor) and 
its owner George Westinghouse embraced these early public 
policy discussions with politicians as a means to benefit local 
communities while simultaneously protecting the interests 
of the company and creating value for its stakeholders. 
EQT still embraces active participation in the political and 
regulatory processes, serving as an informed resource on 
issues directly affecting the activities of EQT and its affiliates, 
and those of the natural gas industry in general, with the 
goal of supporting fair and balanced laws and regulations 
that benefit all of its stakeholders. EQT also encourages 
transparency in its political engagement activities by 
providing an overview on its website.
Social Responsibility  41
 Click here for Table of ContentsEQT Political Spending – 2015
Funding Source Beneficiary of Contribution Amount
EQT Employee PACs
(includes transfers from 
EQT Federal PAC to EQT 
Pennsylvania State PAC to 
fund operations in PA)Candidates for, and members of, the PA General assembly, candidates for 
governor of PA, candidates for PA Judicial Seats$97,850
Candidates for PA County and City offices $14,750
Candidates for, and members of, the WV legislature, candidates for WV 
governor$39,750
Candidates for, and members of, the KY legislature $20,450
Candidates for U.S. Congress and U.S. Senate $36,500
Subtotal – EQT PACs $209,300
EQT Corporation Candidates for, and members of, the VA  Legislature* $51,750
The Republican State Leadership Committee,  
and the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee 
(Both are organizations created under Section 527 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code)$20,000
Go West Virginia  
Center for a Brighter Future Amount
(Both are organizations formed under Section 501(c)(4) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code)$25,000
Subtotal – EQT Corporate 
Treasury$106,750 
Total 2015 contributions $316,050 
* The Virginia Public Access Project (www.vpap.org) discloses all EQT contributions to Virginia candidates. 
Discrepancies may exist between EQT’s actual contributions to candidates and the disclosures found on VPAP,  
based on what each candidate reports to VPAPOVERSIGHT
EQT conducts its political and public policy activities in 
compliance with local, state, and federal laws. The Public 
Policy and Corporate Responsibility (PPCR) Committee of the 
EQT Board of Directors oversees EQT’s public policy activities. 
The committee reviews and provides input and direction to 
management and the Board about the Company’s approach 
to governmental affairs. Additionally, EQT has internal 
policies that manage its interactions with elected officials 
and regulatory agencies to make sure that it maintains 
compliance, including the requirement that no employee may 
engage in lobbying activity on behalf of the Company, nor use 
corporate treasury dollars for political purposes, without 
permission from EQT’s Corporate Director of Government 
Affairs or the EQT General Counsel. The PPCR annually 
reviews all contributions made to political candidates, and 
discusses the public policy issues that affect the Company.  
POLITICAL SPENDING
EQT complies with the laws and regulations of every 
jurisdiction of the Company’s business operations within the 
United States, including all campaign finance laws, federal 
and state, regarding political spending in support of political 
parties, politicians, and related institutions.  The Company does not engage in political activities, nor does 
it make financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, 
politicians, or related institutions outside the United States. 
Funding for EQT political spending comes from the EQT 
Employees Pennsylvania State Political Action Committee 
(PAC), the EQT Employees Federal PAC, and EQT corporate 
treasury dollars. Voluntary contributions from EQT employees 
are the sole source of funding for the EQT Employees Federal 
PAC. Voluntary employee contributions, and transfers from 
the EQT Employees Federal PAC, fund the EQT Employees 
Pennsylvania State PAC. Total political spending during 2015 
from the two PACs and EQT treasury dollars was $316,050.
POLICY ISSUES OF INTEREST
EQT supports federal, state, and local policies that promote 
stable investment climates for the exploration, production, and 
transportation of natural gas. These include policies governing 
environmental protection, taxes, natural gas production and 
transportation, and expanding the use of natural gas in the 
transportation, manufacturing, and electricity generation 
sectors. Some important legislative issues of importance to 
EQT during 2015 include the Pennsylvania severance tax, lease 
integration, intangible drilling costs, and energy infrastructure.
42 $10,000
Click here for Table of ContentsPennsylvania Severance Tax 
The state’s Governor has proposed a natural gas severance tax 
for unconventional wells. EQT is working with the Governor’s 
Office and the General Assembly to ensure that any severance 
tax proposals establish reasonable rates and maintain the key 
provisions of the Marcellus Shale Impact Fee that distributes 
revenues to local communities where Marcellus Shale drilling 
is taking place.
Lease Integration 
EQT supports legislation in West Virginia that allows operators 
to jointly develop multiple oil and gas leases owned and 
controlled by the same producer. Lease integration legislation 
gives producers the ability to jointly develop adjacent oil 
and gas leases at one time through horizontal drilling. It 
is essential to have legal mechanisms available, similar to 
those available in other major gas producing states, that will 
allow for the full development of natural gas resources — 
based upon a standardized set of policies that are fair to both 
producers’ and lessors’ interests. Lease integration legislation 
maximizes natural gas development — while minimizing the 
surface impact associated with natural gas well development 
— and also ensures that all lessors are able to benefit from the 
development of their resources.
Intangible Drilling Costs 
Federal tax law allows natural gas producers to deduct the 
costs associated with drilling for natural gas and oil that  
have no salvage value. These “intangible” drilling costs 
represent a significant portion of a producer’s capital budget; 
therefore, eliminating this provision from the Federal tax code  
will reduce the amount of capital that is available for drilling 
new wells. 
Federal Energy Infrastructure Legislation  
The U.S. Congress is considering several bills that relate to 
the permitting and safe operations of interstate pipelines. EQT is monitoring these bills to ensure that any changes to 
the current pipeline regulatory programs are reasonable and 
establish a fair and predictable regulatory environment.
STRATEGIC CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS
Another important aspect of EQT’s Public Policy activity is 
its membership in business and industry trade associations. 
These organizations support member companies by educating 
the public about key issues, advocating for the interests of its 
member companies and industries, developing and sharing 
scientific research, fostering critical relationships, and 
supporting informed public policy decisions.  
EQT considers these memberships as strategic components 
of its efforts to engage stakeholders, develop and implement 
best practices, and encourage financial, social, and 
environmental sustainability by the natural gas industry. EQT 
employees are active members in the governance of many 
of these associations, often chairing key committees and 
subcommittees, or participating on high profile programs and 
projects. Company employees involved in these associations 
also speak at conferences, address the public/media, and 
represent the industry in testimony before government or 
regulatory bodies.
Business and industry trade associations often allocate a 
portion of their membership dues to lobbying activities.  
As part of EQT’s Public Policy Oversight program, senior 
management of the Company must review and approve the 
use of corporate treasury dollars to fund these memberships, 
and the Company’s Government Affairs department 
requests annual disclosures of the amount of dues used 
by each organization for lobbying expenses. In 2015, EQT 
spent $1,002,784.68 for corporate memberships. Although 
$180,079.78 of that amount was allocated by the organizations 
for lobbying, EQT did not direct payments to any of these 
associations for political purposes.
Social Responsibility  43 Click here for Table of ContentsEQT Corporate Memberships – 2015
Membership Association Total Dues Portion Allocated to Lobbying
Alle Kiski Strong Chamber, Armstrong County  $1,500.00 -  
Allegheny Conference on Community Development  $124,650.00 $24,930.00
American Gas Association  $38,469.00  $1 7,311.05
Center For Sustainable Shale Development  $100,000.00  -  
Greater Dubois Chamber  $625.00  -  
Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce $10,000.00 $500.00 
Harrison County Chamber  $1,000.00  -  
Interstate Natural Gas Association  $120,801.49 $18,120.22
Kentucky Chamber of Commerce  $11,050.00 $1,650.00*
Kentucky Oil & Gas Association $12,500.00  $3,125.00
Letcher County Chamber of Commerce  $500.00  -  
Lewis County Chamber of Commerce $1,000.00  -  
Marcellus Shale Coalition $250,000.00 $74,750.00
Mid Mon Valley Chamber of Commerce $395.00  -  
Natural Gas Supply Association  $85,241.00  -  
Pennsylvania Business Council  $14,308.36  $1,71 7.00
Pennsylvania Chamber of Commerce  $15,755.00 $4,726.50
Peters Township Chamber of Commerce $250.00  -  
Public Affairs Council $2,600.00  -  
Rotary Club of Washington, Pennsylvania $500.00  -  
Southern Gas Association  $41,400.00  -  
Tioga County Development Corporation $1,000.00  -  
U.S. Chamber of Commerce $50,000.00 $1 7,500.00 
Utilities, Telecommunications, & Energy Coalition of  
West Virginia $2,500.00  -  
Virginia Chamber of Commerce  $1,000.00  $150.00 
Virginia Free $23,099.83  -  
Virginia Oil and Gas Association  $7,190.00  $6,690.00 **
Washington County Chamber of Commerce  $450.00  -  
West Virginia Chamber of Commerce $6,000.00  $4,350.00 
West Virginia Manufacturers Association $2,000.00  -  
West Virginia Oil And Natural Gas Association $76,000.00  $4,560.00
Wetzel County Chamber of Commerce $1,000.00  -  
Total Membership Dues - 2015  $1,002,784.68  $180,079.78
*$50 contributed to the Kentucky Chamber of Commerce Action Fund 
**$500 dollars contributed to the Virginia Oil and Gas Association Political Action Committee
44 Click here for Table of ContentsMaintaining a Strong and 
Talented Workforce
In 1869, George Westinghouse became the first employer to 
implement nine-hour days, 55-hour workweeks, and half-
holidays on Saturdays. His company built houses and sold them 
to its workers at an inexpensive price, and offered educational 
and cultural activities, all to help obtain better workers.10 
More than 125 years later, EQT understands the importance of 
attracting and retaining the talent needed for its operations.
The basis for the EQT employment brand relies on several 
aspects: The Company’s reputation as a responsible steward 
of its operating communities, and as a leader in natural gas 
drilling technology; a commitment to diversity and inclusion, 
as well as integrity and ethical conduct; the training and 
growth opportunities available to its employees; and a robust 
compensation and benefits program. The comprehensive 
nature of U.S. labor laws and regulations makes it 
unnecessary for EQT to implement separate policies and 
practices regarding the protection of human rights.  
EQT reviews and evaluates its labor practices and programs, 
including those for diversity and inclusion, on a regular basis 
to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, 
and also to make certain that its programs are competitive 
with the external labor market. These evaluations look at:
• Feedback from exit interviews
• Input from internal Employee Resource Groups (ERG)
• Annual employee engagement surveys
• Turnover rate
• Internal assessments of diversity representation
• Internal assessments of compensation and benefit plans 
• Benchmarking peer companies in the natural gas industry
If areas of concern surface in these evaluations, management 
may deem it appropriate to adjust existing programs, or 
develop a plan to address areas of concern.
EQT’s approach to employee diversity provides another way to 
enhance the Company’s recruitment and retention of talented 
employees. In fact, it is part of every employee’s Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) Value Driver, which has a direct 
impact on individual compensation. Annual reviews of CSR 
performance help EQT focus on recruiting the best talent 
available without regard to ethnic, racial, or other identifiers; recognize that the advantages that employee differences 
bring to the workforce overshadow any perceived hindrances; 
maintain an environment that makes decisions objectively; 
and embrace diverse views and perspectives. 
Company-sponsored ERGs are formed by employees with 
shared characteristics or life experiences, and help play a 
role in creating a work environment that will attract, develop, 
and retain diverse talent. Four groups, representing the self-
expressed interest of most employees, actively support the 
EQT workforce: 
• Multi-Ethnic
• Parents
• Women in Energy
• Developing Professionals
Since their introduction in 2013, the ERGs have sponsored 
numerous events and programs to help existing employees 
navigate and thrive in the Company culture. The membership 
of these groups also support EQT’s external recruiting efforts 
by attending career fairs, volunteering in the community, 
serving as informal mentors to new employees, and providing 
feedback to the Company about its diversity representation.
THE EQT WORKFORCE
EQT ended 2015 with 1,914 employees, all working in the 
United States, and classified as either full-time or part-
time workers. The Company has no employees covered by 
collective bargaining agreements.
Social Responsibility  4510 Source: Westinghouse Legacy  
   (www.westinghousememorial.org/history.htm)
Click here for Table of ContentsEQT Workforce by Gender – 2015
Male Female Total
Total Workforce 1,501 413 1,914
Employment Type
Full-time 1,498 401 1,899
Part-time 3 12 15
Non-Union 1,501 413 1,914
Union (% of 
Workforce)- - -
Employment Location
Kentucky 198 10 208
Pennsylvania 802 339 1,141
Texas 46 2 48
Virginia 27 1 28
West Virginia 427 60 487
Other 1 1 2
Minority
Minority 57 47 104
Non-Minority 1,444 366 1,810
New Hires by Location 
(Number and Rate)
Kentucky 2 
(0.10%) - 2 
(0.10%)
Pennsylvania 143 
(7.47%)67 
(3.50%)210 
(10.97%)
Texas 6 
(0.31%)- 6 
(0.31%)
Virginia - - -
West Virginia 46 
(2.40%)6 
(0.31%)52 
(2.71%)
New Hires by Age 
(Number and Rate)
<30 71 
(3.70%)34 
(1.77%)105 
(5.48%)
 30 – 50 105 
(5.48%)30 
(1.56%)135 
(7.05%)
 >50 21 
(1.09%)9 
(0.47%)30 
(1.56%)
Total New Hires – 
2015197 
(13.12%)73 
(1 7.67%)270 
(14.10%)Male Female Total
Employees Leaving  
by Location
(Number and Rate)
Kentucky 1 
(0.05%)- 1 
(0.05%)
Pennsylvania 51 
(2.66%)26 
(1.35%)77 
(4.02%)
Texas 2 
(0.10%)- 2 
(0.10%)
Virginia 1 
(0.05%)- 1 
(0.05%)
West Virginia 20 
(1.04%)5 
(0.26%)25 
(1.30%)
Employees Leaving  
by Age (Number  
and Rate)
<30 13 
(0.67%)9 
(0.47%)22 
(1.14%)
30 – 50 34 
(1.77%)19 
(0.99%)53 
(2.76%)
 >50 28 
(1.46%)3 
(0.15%)31 
(1.61%)
Total Employees 
Leaving – 201575 
(3.91%)31 
(1.61%)106 
(5.53%)
Parental Leave
Eligible 1,321 345 1,666
Not Eligible 17 8 68 246
Took Parental Leave 
in 20155 22 27
Returned to Work in 
20155 22 27
Retention 12 mos. 
after return5 22 27
Retention Rate 100% 100% 100%
46 Click here for Table of ContentsEQT Workforce by Employment Category – 2015
Number and % of 
Workforce unless 
otherwise indicatedSenior  
ManagementSupervisors/  
ManagersExempt  
ProfessionalsNon-Exempt Total
Gender
Male 5 
(0.26%)317  
(16.56%)504 
(26.33%)675
 (35.26%)1,501
 (78.42%)
% with performance 
review100% 99% 99% 100%
Female 2 
(0.10%)53 
(2.76%)203 
(10.60%)155 
(8.09%)413 
(21.57%)
% with performance 
review100% 100% 100% 98%
Minority Group
Minority - 11 
(0.57%)50 
(2.61%)43 
(2.24%)104 
(5.43%)
Non-Minority 7 
(0.36%)359 
(18.75%)657 
(34.32%)787
(41.11%)1,810
(94.56%)
Age Group
<30 - 15 
(0.78%)168 
(8.77%)162 
(8.46%)345
(18.02%)
30 – 50 1
(0.05%)227 
(11.85%)388 
(20.27%)440
 (22.98%)1,056
 (55.1 7%)
>50 6
(0.31%)128 
(6.68%)151 
(7.88%)228
 (11.91%)513 
(26.80%)
Disabled - 3 
(0.15%)8 
(0.41%)3 
(0.15%)14 
(0.73%)
Reportable Veteran - 6 
(0.31%)20 
(1.04%)24 
(1.25%)50 
(2.61%)
Social Responsibility  47
 Click here for Table of Contents48TRAINING
Giving employees an opportunity to expand their knowledge 
and enhance their professional development is another way 
that EQT seeks to attract and retain talent, as well as ensure 
that core and technical skills remain current. There are 
several options for skills enhancement at EQT — some involve 
mandatory training, some involve work-specific training, and 
others involve optional participation in seminars, workshops, 
and formal certificate or degree programs.   
All new employees of EQT complete an orientation session 
that introduces them to the Company culture, organization, 
leadership competencies, and performance expectations. 
Orientation also reinforces the Company‘s commitment 
to workplace safety, ethical conduct, environmental 
stewardship, benefits, and other resources available to help 
them succeed in their EQT careers. After reporting to their 
workplace, employees receive additional training as needed 
to develop required skill sets and ensure ability to perform 
job tasks safely and effectively.  As employees grow in their careers, they work with their 
managers/supervisors to identify other appropriate training 
opportunities. EQT also provides cross-functional rotational 
assignments, individual development plans and coaching, and 
in-house training. For those wanting to expand their formal 
education, The EQT Education Assistance Program provides 
financial assistance to those employees who enroll in pre-
approved courses or degree programs and satisfy established 
grade requirements.
For those employees nearing the end of their careers, 
EQT also provides training and other options to ensure a 
smooth transition from active employment. The Company’s 
independent 401(k) plan administrator offers online courses, 
one-on-one meetings, and telephone advice about retirement 
options. The EQT Employee Assistance Program also offers 
courses and individual counseling sessions to individuals 
retiring or involuntarily terminating from the Company.   
Click here for Table of ContentsEMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Meeting the personal and professional needs and 
expectations of employees and their families is part of the 
legacy EQT inherited from George Westinghouse. Today,  
EQT offers a robust benefits package designed to meet  
the modern needs of its diverse workforce. The benefits 
package is identical for every employee companywide, 
however, there are some variations in options for full-time 
and part-time employees. 
To supplement the formal benefits package, EQT offers 
its Take Charge and Employee Assistance Programs. The 
Take Charge Wellness Program helps employees and their 
families manage personal health and wellness issues. 
Administered by a third-party provider, the program 
offers personal health coaching, wellness information, 
health management programs, newsletters, and employee 
educational sessions conducted by medical professionals 
during work hours. Employees that participate in approved 
online or telephone-based health coaching programs, 
smoking cessation programs, and pregnancy education can 
receive cash incentives from EQT.The EQT Employee Assistance Program (EAP), administered 
by a third-party provider, offers confidential short-term 
counseling service and treatment programs, and referrals to 
providers that can help with family and relationship concerns, 
elder care, money management, and legal problems that 
are beyond the scope of the Take Charge Wellness Program. 
EAP complements Take Charge by adding resources to 
all employees — and anyone living in their household — 
including those who waive the Company’s medical coverage. 
EQT pays the full cost for up to five in-person visits with a 
counselor for each problem.
The Company also offers an annual on-site health-screening 
program to all employees, at no cost. The screening gives the 
employee immediate results from the screening, and offers a 
consultation with a medical professional to review the findings 
and ask questions. To protect employee privacy, individual 
results (or any other information from any part of these 
programs) remain strictly confidential. EQT does not see 
program information about individual employees, however, 
the Company may receive aggregate information from the 
third-party providers for analysis purposes.EQT Employee Benefits – 2015 
Healthcare Insurance Financial Lifestyle
Medical* Life Insurance (Company paid) Severance Pay Paid Time Off
Dental* Accidental Death & Disability
(Company paid)Relocation Assistance Education Assistance Program
Vision* Short-term Disability
(Company paid)401(k) Retirement Savings 
with matching Company 
contribution*9/80 Work Schedule – optional 
Long-term Disability
(Company paid)Employee Stock Purchase Plan* Paid Leave of Absence
Business Travel Accident
(Company paid)Health Savings Account* Extended Unpaid Leave of Absence
Optional Life Insurance – 
employee, spouse, childCredit Union* Employee Assistance Program*
Family and Medical Leave (includes 
maternity/paternity leave)
Commuter Reimbursement 
Accounts*
Wellness Programs*
Matching Gift Program – 100%  
match up to $50,000 per year
*Part-time employees are eligible for these benefits
Social Responsibility  49 Click here for Table of ContentsIn 2015,  EQT had  
more than 152 million 
shares  outstanding.In 1950,  Equitable Gas Company 
separated from the Philadelphia Company 
and became a publicly owned 
company through the sale of  
two million shares   
of common stock. Since 1878, Sustaining Economic  P erformance
50
 Click here for Table of Contents5
Social Responsibility  51ECONOMIC IMPACT
When that first Haymaker 
well began producing natural 
gas in 1878, the changes 
taking place in their sleepy 
communities surprised many 
nearby residents. There were 
new sounds, new sights, an 
influx of new people, and 
much more traffic; however, 
there were also major benefits 
resulting from more jobs, 
more customers for local 
businesses, and new income 
opportunities for landowners 
living near producing wells. 
With the resurgence of the 
natural gas industry in the 2000s in western Pennsylvania 
and West Virginia, communities and the residents who live in 
them are once again experiencing changes that are bringing 
positive signs of economic growth.11
The natural gas industry has survived numerous booms and 
busts over the last century or so, as has the country. In the 
1880s, natural gas was abundant and viewed as the country’s 
best opportunity for affordable, locally produced energy. 
The most recent Shale Boom of the 2000s was facilitated by 
the advent of new technology and pushed the United States 
toward the potential of being ‘energy independent.’
The cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry — what 
goes up, must come down — and the recent low-price 
environment of natural gas have threatened the viability of 
many companies that participate in, or provide support to, 
the industry. Nonetheless, EQT is successfully weathering 
these challenges and remains well positioned to maintain a 
responsible growth pattern into the future. This bodes well 
for the economic impact that the Company now delivers — 
and will continue to provide — through the combination of 
technical prowess, social responsibility, and sustainable 
economic performance.2015 at a Glance
For the sixth consecutive year, EQT achieved record-
setting annual production growth, including a 27% 
increase in total sales volumes and a 34% increase in 
Marcellus sales volumes in 2015. This happened even 
though the average realized 
price to EQT for production sales 
volumes decreased 36% from 
2014 levels. EQT’s midstream 
business segment also delivered 
record gathering volumes that 
were 28% higher than 2014 
results. Business operations and 
results for EQGP and EQM are 
included in the EQT Midstream 
business segment’s results.
Direct Economic Value Generated 
and Distributed – All Operations
2015 Results
($ millions)
Direct Economic Value Generated
Revenue 2,339.8
Economic Value Distributed
Operating Expenses 1,776.6
Employee Compensation 500.4
Dividends paid to shareholders 18.3
Taxes paid to state and local  
taxing entities337.1
Community Investments
EQT Foundation Grants  
(includes matching gifts)5.1
EQT Corporation Local Giving 0.3
EQT Sponsorships and Community 
Events0.6
Educational Improvement Tax Credit 
Grants (PA only)0.4
Roads and Infrastructure 
Investments12.7
Source: EQT 2015 Form 10-K and other  
internal documents
11 Biographical and Historical Cyclopedia of Westmoreland County,   
Pennsylvania, edited by Samuel T. Wiley, published 1890
Click here for Table of ContentsReserves and Production
During 2015, all of EQT’s production activity occurred 
onshore, and primarily within the states of Pennsylvania, 
West Virginia, and Kentucky — with limited activity in 
Ohio, Texas, and Virginia. A detailed description of how the 
Company determines natural gas reserves is provided in the 
EQT 2015 Form 10-K (pp 110-111), along with the engineer’s 
audit report filed with the EQT 2015 Form 10-K (Exhibit 99). 
The following table provides a breakdown of these reserves 
by resource type and geologic formation.
Helping Economies Grow
EQT’s operations have a positive influence on the local 
economies where it operates, yet there are several other ways 
that the Company and its employees support economic growth. 
Every year, EQT commissions an independent analysis of its 
activities to assess the direct and indirect economic impact of 
its operations on both local and U.S. economies.  2015 Proved Reserves  
(and Production)by Resource Type  
and Geologic Formation
(Mboe) MarcellusUpper  
DevonianUtica/
CBM/
OtherTotal
Proved 
Developed687 68 292 1,047
Proved 
Undeveloped608 8 - 616
Total Proved 
Reserves1,295 76 292 1,663
Total Developed Natural Gas 942
Total Undeveloped Natural Gas 576
Total Developed Oil 105
Total Undeveloped Oil 40
12 Labor income includes both Employee Compensation (total payroll 
cost of the employee paid by the employer, including wage and salary, 
all benefits and payroll taxes) and Proprietor Income (total income to 
a sole proprietor, self “employee” or contractor). http://www.implan.
com/index.php?option=com_glossary&task=list&letter=
13 U.S.Census, Income and Poverty in the United States: 2014. 
Accessed at:  https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/
publications/2015/demo/p60-252.pdf , 2014 median household income 
was increased 4.4% to 2015 levels according to BEA analysis accessed at:  
http://ww.bea.gov/newsreleases/regional/spi/sqpi_newsreleases.htm
52 LABOR INCOME
The employment contributions of EQT’s activities provide a 
significant number of jobs to its staff, direct contractors, and 
suppliers. In 2015, EQT’s activities generated average labor 
income12 for its employees, direct contractors, and suppliers 
that met or exceeded U.S. median household income in 2015.13 
Estimated Annual Average Labor 
Income Impacts – 2015FTI Consulting, Inc. prepared the analysis and compilation of the 
most recent study — Economic Benefits of EQT Corporation’s 
2015 Investment and Operations Activities, May 25, 2016 — 
based on data as of December 31, 2015 supplied by EQT. The 
analysis shows that most of the economic contributions occur 
within EQT’s primary operating regions, and in 2015 included 
the following:
•    Supported 44,000 ancillary jobs
• Value-added contribution of  $4.4 billion to the U.S. Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP)
• Generated $337 million in state and local tax revenues
$0$50,000$100,000$150,000$200,000$250,000$300,000
$261,000
$77,000
$57,000
EQT 
EmployeesDirect 
ContractorsSuppliers
Click here for Table of ContentsGROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP)
Of EQT’s $4.4 million in GDP, or value-added, contributions 
to the U.S. economy, 62% of the economic benefits occurred 
in states where EQT operated in 2015. The remaining 38% of 
contributions relate to out-of-state suppliers that provided 
goods and services for operational activities in EQT’s six 
operating states.EQT’s direct activities produced $1.92 billion of GDP while the 
supplier GDP impact was $962 million. The induced impact 
was $1.52 billion.
Social Responsibility  53Estimated U.S. Employment  
Contributions by EQT – 2015
Figures rounded to the nearest 10
EQT Employment  
1,914
Direct 
Contractors  
15,550
Supplier 
Employment  
10,070Induced 
Employment  
18,310EQT GDP Contributions by State – 2015
West Virginia  
$290Kentucky  
$90
Texas  
$120
Virginia  
$10
Ohio  
$30
Pennsylvania  
$2,190Rest of U.S.  
$1,660($ millions)
EQT Level of Economic Effect – 2015
Indirect  
$962
22%Induced  
$1,524  
35%Direct  
$1,91 7
43%($ millions)EMPLOYMENT CONTRIBUTIONS
EQT workforce contributions include its 1,914 direct employees, 
as well as the contractors and suppliers that support its 
production and midstream activities. The employment-
related contributions also include the earnings spent by those 
employees, contractors, and suppliers, which in turn drive 
employment in sectors providing various goods and services 
(i.e., the induced impact) to the Company. The total employment 
contributions related to EQT activities, (including its direct 
employees) is estimated to be 45,850 employees in the U.S.
Click here for Table of ContentsSTATE AND LOCAL TAX PAYMENTS
EQT activities generated $337 million in state and local taxes in 2015, which helped to support the operations of state and 
local governments.
EQT’s Estimated Direct, Indirect, and  
Induced State and Local Tax Payments – 2015 
PennsylvaniaWest  
VirginiaKentucky Texas Ohio VirginiaRest of 
U.S.*Total
Property 
Taxes47.0 5.7 1.5 2.9 1.3 0.5 40.1 99.0
Income Tax 36.6 6.6 1.1 - 0.8 0.3 21.8 67.2
Sales Tax 53.8 10.4 0.8 1.3 1.5 0.4 44.4 112.6
Other 
Personal 
Taxes6.3 4.7 0.4 0.2 0.1 - 5.4 17.1
Other 
Taxes on 
Production 
and Imports10.5 4.0 0.6 0.8 0.4 0.1 8.4 24.8
Other 8.4 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 - 7.3 16.4
Total 162.6 31.8 4.5 5.3 4.2 1.3 127.4 337.1
* Other states benefit economically from EQT’s activities because EQT directly receives goods and services from  
companies located outside of its operating areas
Maintaining a  
Diverse Supply Chain
Safe and responsible operations in the natural gas industry 
require the careful sourcing, evaluation, selection, and oversight 
of thousands of vendors. There were 2,794 direct suppliers in 
EQT’s supply base during 2015, consisting of a mix of contractors, 
manufacturers, distributors, and consultants. The largest 
expenditure categories for these preferred vendors included 
completions, drilling support services, pipeline construction, 
materials, compression, and drilling rigs, and more than 99.9% 
of the preferred supplier spend was sourced domestically.
EQT maintains open and honest relationships with its suppliers, 
regardless of size or location, to make sure they are providing 
innovative solutions, high quality goods and services, competitive 
pricing, and a consistent level of performance. The Company 
has numerous policies and processes in place to ensure 
conformity with its safety, environmental, legal, and ethical 
conduct expectations, and every supplier is subject to the same 
performance considerations, including the following:• Safety – Safe and environmentally friendly operations are 
imperative at EQT, and suppliers must achieve “approval 
status” (as applicable to the good or service provided) by 
the Company’s Safety Department.
• Value  – EQT places significant merit on the overall value 
that suppliers offer. Suppliers who differentiate their 
offerings from their competitors through increased value 
usually merit greater consideration.
• Price  – EQT takes pride in being a responsible operator 
and a low-cost producer, therefore, in many cases, lower 
supplier costs are looked upon favorably as it enables the 
Company to achieve cost-savings. 
• Quality  – As EQT strives to be a good neighbor by respecting 
the communities where it operates, the Company demands 
best-in-class supply chain performance that mirrors  
this expectation.
• Delivery  – Along with being a low-cost producer, on-time 
delivery is a critical measurement consideration to avoid 
expensive operational delays.
54 ($ millions)
Click here for Table of ContentsBUILDING LOCAL AND DIVERSE SUPPLIER CAPACITY
EQT realizes that when it chooses to seek out small and 
diverse local suppliers to help build more sustainable 
operations, communities near the Company’s business 
operations often experience a substantial boost with far 
reaching socioeconomic benefits. With support of the 
Company’s Board of Directors, EQT’s management team 
is committed to finding and, wherever possible, awarding 
contracts to qualified small and diverse businesses 
headquartered near its primary areas of operation. In fact, 
during 2015 EQT spent 85% of its procurement budget on 
suppliers physically located in or near the same city or 
state as the Company’s business activities in the area.   
EQT defines a diverse business as a Minority Business 
Enterprise (MBE), a Woman Business Enterprise (WBE), 
or a Veteran Owned Business (VOB), and actively monitors 
its spending with these suppliers. To help identify new 
qualified diverse vendors, as well as those that have 
the potential to become qualified, EQT collaborates 
with regional and national councils such as the African 
American Chamber of Commerce of Western Pennsylvania, 
and the National Minority Supplier Development Council. 
The Company also works with coalitions such as the 
Women’s Business Council-Southwest and the Women’s 
Business Enterprise Council. During 2015, EQT employees 
served on boards, committees, and special projects with 
these organizations to provide guidance and leadership. 
The Company also sponsored, or participated in, 
outreach events targeted to reach local and diverse 
suppliers including:
• Regional Matchmaker events, designed to connect 
diverse suppliers with corporations for potential 
business opportunities. EQT encourages its top 
suppliers to attend and participate in one-on-one 
meetings with diverse vendors.
• Education sessions on Supplier Diversity in the  
Natural Gas Industry, where EQT shares its experience 
and best practices promoting the use of local and  
diverse businessesAlthough the specialized nature of the products and services 
used in the natural gas industry can complicate the ability 
of local or diverse suppliers to qualify immediately for 
direct contracts, EQT encourages its top vendors to consider 
diverse vendors as subcontractors to help these businesses 
develop relevant experience and expand business 
opportunities that may not exist directly with the Company. 
Targeted EQT procurement initiatives in this area include:
• Adding language in Company Requests for Proposals that 
strongly encourage top suppliers to seek out and include 
diverse businesses as part of their proposed solution 
• Giving greater consideration to vendors who complete 
and submit a subcontracting document with their 
proposal identifying where and how they will utilize 
diverse vendors as part of the bidding process 
• Conducting meetings with EQT’s top contractors to 
provide supplier diversity education, outline reporting 
requirements for subcontracting with diverse suppliers, 
and identify specific commodities purchased by the top 
contractors to help align them with diverse firms selling 
those products 
• Tracking diverse vendor usage by asking the Company’s 
top contractors to provide their monthly spend with 
diverse subcontractors and local suppliers
EQT also works closely with local and diverse businesses 
that are already successfully performing work with the 
Company to identify opportunities to expand their scope of 
service. As these organizations grow their capabilities, EQT 
considers them for additional work, or larger projects. This 
capacity building effort strengthens the viability of the firm, 
enhances EQT’s sustainability efforts, and directly boosts the 
local economy through job growth and business expansion.  
Supporting local communities takes many forms and EQT’s 
approach to developing a diverse and indigenous supplier 
base is just one of many successful outreach efforts that 
have become part of the Company’s business strategy 
to sustain strong business performance and ensure 
responsible growth across the supply chain.
Social Responsibility  55 Click here for Table of Contents56EQT Performance Benchmark – Key Data 
Health and Safety Indicators
Indicator 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Number of Fatalities - 1.00 - - -
Lost-Time Accident Rate (LTA) 0.47 0.34 0.38 0.13 0.36
OSHA Recordable Rate 1.98 2.52 2.04 1.66 1.50
Preventable Vehicle Accident Rate (PVA) 0.86 1.22 1.39 1.45 0.94
Stationary Object Strike Rate N/A N/A N/A 1.02 0.42
Days Away, Restricted or Transferred (DART) 0.70 0.78 1.02 0.44 0.57
Environmental Indicators
Indicator 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Fresh Water Withdrawals 
(1,000 cubic meters)2,010 2,291 3,678 5,119 7,136
Volume of Produced Water (1,000 bbls) 27,952 3,647 5,1 72 6,642 1,750
Total Wastewater Recycled (as % of total water withdrawn) N/A 32% 22% 21% 25%
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (1,000 metric tons CO2e) 3,313 2,695 1,119 885 1,219
Usage Rate of Compressed Natural Gas  
(compared to all fuel sources used)0.1% 2.0% 2.0% 3.3% 4.0%
EQT Acreage – Wetlands (square miles) 48 47 50 42 42
EQT Acreage – Federal Land or Parks (sq. mi.) 1,550 1,479 1,538 1,577 1,515
Monetary Fines $142,997 $65,925 $149,185 $32,349 $251,900
Number of Reportable Spills 56 55 34 46 57
Total Volume of Spills (bbls) 244 155 475 357 439
Private Water Supply Complaints
Indicator 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total Water Supply Complaints N/A 18 19 37 34
Potentially Related to EQT Operations* N/A 2 1 2 1
Days to Resolution (average) N/A N/A 46 22 20
* None of the investigations of incidents Potentially Related to EQT Operations revealed any contamination associated 
with either methane migration or fluids involved in the actual drilling or hydraulic fracturing processesAs of December 31, 2015
Click here for Table of ContentsKey Performance Data  57Workforce Indicators
Indicator 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Number of Employees 1,835 1,873 1,626 1,750 1,914
Employee Turnover Rate 9.9% 11.2% 10.1% 13.4% 5.5%
*Excludes Gas Company Employees; Equitable Gas was sold in December 2013 
Community Investment Indicators
Indicator 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
EQT Foundation – Grants $3,508,035 $2,968,000 $3,962,000 $4,119,000 $5,143,937
EQT – PA Educational Improvement Grants* $1,488,576 $1,146,666 $590,555 $504,444 $366,666
EQT – Local Giving (PA, WV, OH, KY, VA) $125,930 $208,100 $320,200 $325,302 $333,900
EQT – Sponsorships & Community Events $295,440 $600,1 75 $432,650 $691,025 $632,390
EQT – Roads and Infrastructure N/A N/A $18,934,021 N/A $12,720,057
* The Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development determines the annual allowable 
investment amount 
Economic Impact Indicators
Indicator 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total Proved Reserves (bcfe)** 5,365 6,004 8,348 10,739 9,977
Net Income (millions of dollars) $479.77 $183.40 $390.60 $386.90 $85.1 7
Operating Income (millions of dollars) $861.30 $389.60 $654.60 $853.40 $563.14
Capital Investment (billions of dollars) $1.20 $1.40 $1.80 $3.12 $2.30
Royalty Payments* (millions of dollars) $804.64 $949.79 $1,850.63 $1,548.00 $145.60
Property Taxes (millions of dollars) $28.73 $30.14 $26.27 $23.10 $99.00
Severance Taxes/Impact Fees (millions of dollars) $27.1 7 $35.12 $43.50 $53.02 $42.74
*Total Royalty Income includes payments made to both Royalty Interest and Working Interest 
**Proved reserves decreased 7% in 2015, primarily as a result of lower natural gas prices 
Public Policy Indicators
Indicator 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Political Spending – EQT Corporate Treasury $14,350 $68,000 $43,800 $1 78,700 $106,750
Political Spending – EQT Employee PACs $73,939 $127,150 $109,959 $146,000 $209,300
Click here for Table of Contents58Global Reporting Initiative CONTENT INDEX
General Standard Disclosures
Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
Strategy and Analysis
G4-1 Message from the CEO Page 3
G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 2015 EQT Form 10-K
Organizational Profile
G4-3 Organization name EQT Corporation
G4-4 Primary products and services EQT is an integrated energy company, with emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas production, gathering and 
transmission
G4-5 Location of organization 
headquartersPittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States of America
G4-6 Number and names of countries 
where organization operatesEQT only operates within the United States. Foreign subsidiaries are inactive.
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form EQT (NYSE:EQT) is a Standard & Poor’s 500 investor-owned corporation
G4-8 Markets served (geographic, sectors, 
types of customers)EQT’s produced natural gas sells as a commodity to marketers, utilities, and industrial customers located mainly 
in the Appalachian Basin and the Northeastern United States, as well as the Permian Basin of Texas. EQT’s 
current transportation portfolio also enables the Company to reach markets along the Gulf Coast of the United 
States
G4-9 Scale of the organization Page 6
G4-10 Workforce demographics PP 46-47
G4-11 Employees covered by collective 
bargaining agreementsNone
G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Page 54
G4-13 Significant changes during the 
reporting periodThere were no significant changes in locations, operations, the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers.
In 2015, EQT formed EQT GP Holdings, LP (EQGP) (NYSE: EQGP), a Delaware limited partnership, to own the 
Company’s partnership interests, including the incentive distribution rights, in EQT Midstream Partners, LP 
(NYSE: EQM). As of December 31, 2015, the Company owned the entire non-economic general partner interest and 
239,715,000 common units, which represented a 90.1% limited partner interest, in EQGP . 
As of December 31, 2015, EQGP owned the following EQM partnership interests, which represent EQGP’s only 
cash-generating assets: 
• 21,811,643 EQM common units, representing a 27.6% limited partner interest in EQM
• 1,443,015 EQM general partner units, representing a 1.8% general partner interest in EQM
• All of EQM’s incentive distribution rights, or IDRs, which entitle EQGP to receive up to 48.0% of all incremental 
cash distributed in a quarter, after $0.5250 has been distributed in respect of each common unit and general 
partner unit of EQM for that quarter
EQT is the ultimate parent company of EQGP and EQM.
G4-14 If and how the precautionary 
approach or principle is addressedPP 23-24
G4-15 External charters, principles or other 
initiatives endorsedPage 25
G4-16 Association memberships maintained 
at the organization levelPage 44
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17 Entities included in consolidated 
financial statementsEQT 2015 Form 10-K (Exhibit 21)  
Excluded from this report is EQT foreign subsidiaries, which are inactive. 
G4-18 Process for defining report content 
and Aspect BoundariesPage 2
Click here for Table of ContentsContent Index  59Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
G4-19 Material Aspects identified Economic  Social - Society
- Economic Performance  - Local Communities 
- Market Presence**  - Anti-corruption 
- Indirect Economic Impacts  - Public Policy 
- Procurement Practices  - Anti-competitive Behavior 
- Reserves*  - Compliance** 
Environmental  Social - Labor Practices and Decent Work
- Energy**  - Employment
- Water  - Labor/Management Relations
- Biodiversity**  - Occupational Health and Safety 
- Emissions  - Training and Education
- Effluents and Waste  - Diversity and Equal Opportunity
- Compliance  - Equal Remuneration for Women and Men**
- Transport 
*Content from the G4.0 Oil & Gas Sector Supplement 
** New Material Aspects added during 2015
EQT may also disclose other information in this report for Aspects not declared as material by GRI standards.
G4-20 Aspect Boundary with the 
organization for each material AspectThis report covers activity within the organization from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, at EQT 
headquarters, all locations of the Company’s Production business segment, and all locations of the Company’s 
Midstream business segment through its ownership and control of EQT Midstream Partners, LP (Partnership or 
EQM). The report does not cover EQT’s foreign subsidiaries, which are inactive.
G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the 
organization for each material AspectAspects identified as material within EQT are typically material to the Company’s stakeholders outside the 
company, however the degree of materiality may vary by Aspect and stakeholder. The geographical locations 
where the Aspect is material are identical to those of the Company.
G4-22 Effect of any restatements of 
information in previous reportsNone
G4-23 Significant changes from previous 
reports in Scope and Aspect 
BoundariesNone
Stakeholder Engagement
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the 
organizationPage 36
G4-25 Basis for identification and selection 
of stakeholder groupsPage 35
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement PP 37-39
G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised 
through stakeholder engagementPage 37
Report Profile
G4-28 Reporting period January 1, 2015 - December 31, 2015
G4-29 Date of most recent previous report September 1, 2015
G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual
G4-31 Contact point for questions about 
the reportNatalie Cox
Corporate Director, Communications
EQT Corporation
625 Liberty Avenue, Suite 1700
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
United States
G4-32 In accordance option and Content 
IndexIn Accordance - Comprehensive
The Content Index is contained in this table
G4-33 Policy and current practice regarding 
external assuranceEQT conducted a self-assessment of the report; however, it did not submit the report for external assurance
Click here for Table of Contents60Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
Governance
G4-34 Governance structure PP 10-11
G4-35 Process for delegating authority for 
economic, environment and social topics 
from highest governance body to senior 
executivesPage 9
G4-36 Appointment of senior level position(s) 
responsible for economic, environmental 
and social topics, and reporting structurePage 9
G4-37 Process for communication between 
stakeholders and highest governance bodyPage 12
G4-38 Composition of highest governance body 
and demographicsPP 10-11
G4-39 Independent chair of the highest 
governance body or executive officerDavid L. Porges is the Chairman and CEO of EQT. EQT’s philosophy regarding the leadership structure of 
its board is set forth in Paragraph 5(g) of the Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are available under 
“Charters and Documents” on the EQT website. 
David L. Porges is the Chairman, CEO, and President of EQGP’s general partner. EQGP’s philosophy regarding 
the leadership structure of its board is set forth in Paragraph 5(d) of the EQGP Corporate Governance 
Guidelines, which are available under “Governance” on the joint EQM and EQGP website. 
David L. Porges is the Chairman, CEO, and President of EQM’s general partner. EQM’s philosophy regarding the 
leadership structure of its board is set forth in Paragraph 5(d) of the EQM Corporate Governance Guidelines, 
which are available under “Governance” on the joint EQM and EQGP website.
G4-40 Nomination and selection processes and 
criteria for highest governance bodyBeginning in 2016, EQT directors will stand for election by shareholders annually. The EQT Board may fill 
vacancies. The nomination and selection process for the EQT Board is set forth on pages 25-27 of the 2016 
EQT Proxy Statement under the heading “Director Nominations.” 
EQT appoints the members of the EQGP and EQM Boards, and unitholders are not entitled to elect the 
directors of the respective general partners. The process by which members of the EQGP and EQM Boards are 
selected is set forth in Paragraph 5(a) of the EQGP and EQM Corporate Governance Guidelines, respectively, 
each of which is available under “Governance” on the joint EQM and EQGP website.
G4-41 Processes of highest governing body 
for avoiding and managing conflicts of 
interestEQT, EQGP , and EQM disclose conflicts of interest to stakeholders as required by law. 
EQT has a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics pursuant to which it avoids and manages conflicts of interest. 
The EQT Code of Conduct and Business Ethics is available on its website (www.eqt.com) –under “Charters and 
Documents” on the EQT website. EQT also has a Conflicts of Interest Policy.
EQGP and EQM share a Code of Conduct and Business Ethics pursuant to which each company avoids and 
manages conflicts of interest. The EQGP/EQM Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available under 
“Governance” on the joint EQM and EQGP website.
EQT’s processes regarding related person transactions are set forth on pages 28-30 of the 2016 EQT Proxy 
Statement. As set forth on page 30 of the 2016 EQT Proxy Statement, there are no compensation committee 
interlocks involving an EQT director.
EQGP’s processes regarding related person transactions are set forth on pages 129-131 of its 2015 Form 10-K 
under the headings “Review, Approval, or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons” and “Conflicts of 
Interest.” Item 13 of the 2015 EQGP Form 10-K, generally, sets forth a list of related person transactions; see 
pages 122-131 for this information.
EQM’s processes regarding related person transactions are set forth on pages 123-124 of its 2015 Form 10-K 
under the headings “Review, Approval, or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons” and “Conflicts of 
Interest.” Item 13 of the 2015 EQM Form 10-K, generally, sets forth a list of related person transactions; see 
pages 116-124 for this information.
G4-42 Role of highest governance body and 
senior executives in development, 
approval and updating of purpose, value 
or mission statements, strategies, 
policies, and goals related to economic, 
environmental and social impactsIn addition to general oversight of the business and affairs of the applicable entity, the Boards of EQT, EQGP , 
and EQM also perform a number of specific functions, which are set forth in Paragraph 2 of their respective 
Corporate Governance Guidelines. The EQT, EQGP , and EQM Corporate Governance Guidelines are available in 
the “Investor” section of each company’s website.
Click here for Table of ContentsContent Index  61Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance 
highest governance body’s collective 
knowledge of economic, environmental 
and social topicsPage 12
G4-44 Processes for evaluating performance of 
highest governance body and action taken 
in response to those evaluationsPage 12
G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in 
identifying and managing economic, 
environmental and social impacts, risks 
and opportunitiesThe EQT Board is responsible for reviewing the process for assessing the major risks facing EQT and the 
related risk mitigation options. Please see the heading “Board’s Role in Risk Oversight” on page 25 of the 
2016 EQT Proxy Statement for more information regarding EQT’s risk management process. 
The EQGP Board is responsible for reviewing the process for assessing the major risks facing EQGP and the 
related risk mitigation options.
The EQM Board is responsible for reviewing the process for assessing the major risks facing EQM and the 
related risk mitigation options.
Additionally, the EQT, EQGP , and EQM Audit Committees each review their respective company’s major risk 
exposures and the policies each company’s management has implemented to monitor and control such 
exposures.
G4-46 Highest governance body’s role 
in reviewing effectiveness of risk 
management processes for economic, 
environmental and social impacts, risks 
and opportunitiesWhen making decisions on behalf of the applicable company, the EQT, EQGP and EQM Boards each consider 
the feedback from their respective stakeholders.
G4-47 Frequency of highest governance body’s 
review of economic, environmental and 
social impacts, risks and opportunitiesSee the response to Indicator G4-45.
G4-48 Highest committee or position that 
reviews and approves the sustainability 
report and ensures coverage of all 
material AspectsThe Corporate Director, Communications of EQT Corporation is accountable for compiling and verifying the 
information set forth herein.
G4-49 Process for communicating critical 
concerns to the highest governance bodySee the response to G4-37
G4-50 Nature and total number of critical 
concerns communicated to the highest 
governance body and mechanisms used 
to address and resolve themEQT, EQGP and EQM do not have systems in place to track the critical concerns communicated to its  
Board of Directors
G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest 
governance body and senior executives, 
and relation of performance criteria to 
economic, environmental and social 
objectivesDirector Compensation
See 2016 EQT Corporation Proxy Statement, pages 31-33, Director Compensation. 
Executive Officer Compensation
See 2016 EQT Corporation Proxy Statement, pages 38-61, Compensation Discussion and Analysis, and pages 
76-80, Payments to be Made Pursuant to Written Agreements with the Named Executive Officers. EQT has a 
compensation recoupment, or “clawback,” policy applicable to executive officers. The policy provides that in 
the event the company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to its material noncompliance 
with any financial reporting requirement under the U.S. securities law, the company may recoup certain 
compensation from covered executives who received non-equity incentive compensation, or received or 
realized compensation from equity awards during the covered period. 
G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Director Compensation
See 2016 EQT Corporation Proxy Statement, pages 31-33, Directors’ Compensation. 
Executive Officer Compensation
See 2016 EQT Corporation Proxy Statement, pages 22-24, Compensation Process 
Click here for Table of Contents62Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
G4-53 Process for seeking stakeholder views and how 
these views are taken into account regarding 
remuneration (including results of votes on 
remuneration policies and proposals)Shareholder Engagement
The company has conducted a formal shareholder engagement program since 2010. Executives 
from the Compensation and Governance functions meet with interested shareholders to discuss 
performance results, the Company’s pay structure, and changes to the structure from the prior year 
plan. Time is also devoted to answering shareholder questions and taking suggestions for changes. 
The results of the meetings are reviewed with the CEO and the Management Development and 
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Say on Pay voting results summary – FOR the proposal:
• 2016 – 96.1%  • 2014 – 98.2%
• 2015 – 98.6%  • 2013 – 96.9%
G4-54 Ratio of total compensation of highest paid 
individual to median annual total compensation 
for all employees (excluding highest paid 
individual)The information is subject to specific confidentiality constraints. For confidentiality reasons, EQT does 
not report/disclose compensation-based ratios. EQT does not make compensation decisions using 
these types of ratios.
G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase on annual total 
compensation of highest paid individual to 
median percentage increase in annual total 
compensation for all employees (excluding 
highest paid individual)The information is subject to specific confidentiality constraints. For confidentiality reasons, EQT does 
not report/disclose compensation-based ratios. EQT does not make compensation decisions using 
these types of ratios.
Ethics and Integrity
G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of 
behaviorPage 13
G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking 
advice on ethical conduct and lawful behavior, 
and organizational integrityPage 13
EQT does not track the number of requests for advice, or the descriptions of requests. EQT also does 
not track the level of satisfaction for those using the mechanisms for seeking advice. 
G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting 
concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, 
and organizational integritySee the response to G4-57
 
Specific Standard Disclosures
Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
Category: Economic
Material Aspect: Economic Performance
G4-DMA PP 51-52
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed PP 51-52
G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities for the organization’s activities due 
to climate change2015 EQT Form 10-K
G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit 
plan obligationsNone…The EQT defined benefit pension plan was terminated (standard termination) effective 
12/31/2014.
G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government EQT receives a tax credit from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania equal to 70% of its contributions 
to the PA Educational Improvement Tax Credit Program. In 2015, this amount was approximately 
$257,000.
Click here for Table of ContentsContent Index  63Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
Material Aspect: Market Presence
G4-DMA Page 45
G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from 
the local community at significant locations 
of operationEQT’s significant operations are all located within the United States, which is the hiring source for the 
entire senior management team.
Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts
G4-DMA PP 52-54
G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure 
investments and services supportedPP 52-54
G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, 
including the extent of impactsPP 52-54
Material Aspect: Procurement Practices
G4-DMA PP 54-55
G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at 
significant locations of operations85%
PP 54-55
Category: Environmental
Material Aspect: Materials
G4-DMA N/A
G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EQT does not have a mechanism in place to track all materials used by weight, volume or renewable 
status, but is investigating materials handling systems that may provide some of this functionality. See 
response to G4-EN8 for details of water usage.
G4-EN2 Percentage of materials that are recycled 
input materialsSee response to G4-EN10 for details of water recycled and reused.
Material Aspect: Energy
G4-DMA PP 23-24
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization PP 32-33
G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization Not Applicable…EQT does not monitor or track energy consumption outside the organization
G4-EN5 Energy Intensity Not Applicable…EQT does not monitor or track the appropriate information needed to calculate the 
energy intensity of its oil and gas operations with any degree of accuracy.
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption PP 32-33
G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of 
products and servicesNot Applicable…EQT does not monitor or track energy requirements of third-party products and services
Material Aspect: Water
G4-DMA Page 27
Click here for Table of Contents64Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
G4-EN8 Total water withdrawn by source PP 27-28
The amount of surface water withdrawn increased in 2015 due to the combination of more wells drilled (163 
wells in 2014 vs. 247 wells in 2015) and longer laterals on each well resulting in a greater volume of water 
used (204,771 bbls/well in 2014 vs. 218,587 bbls/well in 2015).
The amount of wastewater used from other sources increased significantly in 2015. The wastewater 
withdrawals took place in PA, OH, and WV. EQT did not use wastewater in TX, VA, or KY. 
No wastewater was transferred directly to EQT locations.
G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by 
withdrawal of waterNone…EQT adheres to regulations established by state regulatory agencies to determine water withdrawal 
thresholds necessary for maintaining ecological function of the affected water sources in order to maintain 
ecosystem health and human well-being. This includes the installation and monitoring of stream gauges, 
the monitoring of existing USGS stream gauges, and use of online water withdrawal tools when available.
G4-EN10 Percentage of and total volume of water 
recycled and reusedPage 29
Material Aspect: Biodiversity
G4-DMA Page 31
G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed 
in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas 
of high biodiversity value outside protected 
areasEQT holds leases which contain the following: 
• Wetland areas
• Army Corp of Engineers property
• National forest
• State forests
G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, 
products, and services on biodiversity in 
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 
value outside protected areasNone…In 2015, EQT did not drill wells within any of the sensitive areas listed in G4-EN11. 
EQT follows all Federal, State and Local regulations and guidelines within these areas for its operations in 
Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia.
G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored During 2015, EQT did not drill any wells in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value, so no habitats 
required protection or restoration.
G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red list species and 
national conservation list species with 
habitats in areas affected by operations, by 
levels of extinction riskEQT does not evaluate its operations and their biodiversity effects based on IUCN Red list species. The 
Company does follow all federal, state, and local regulations applicable wherever it operates to ensure the 
protection of endangered species and their habitats. Within these known areas, EQT conducts studies to 
identify if these species exist in potential drill sites. If they do, EQT’s first goal is avoidance and if that is 
not possible, EQT works with the appropriate agencies to develop and execute protection plans.
Material Aspect: Emissions
G4-DMA PP 25-26
G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
(Scope 1)Page 26
EQT bases emissions on Stack Test Data, Manufacturer’s Data, and/or USEPA published emission factors. All 
data reflects required air emissions inventory submittals and include all EQT Production and EQT Midstream 
operations. EQT gathers operational data and calculates emissions annually to comply with the emissions 
inventory requirements of each state where the Company has operations. The calculations use site-specific 
data, stack tests, and manufacturer’s information.
EQT does not measure or report air emissions for persistent organic pollutants or air emissions for stack 
and fugitive emissions. There are no plans to measure or report this data in the future as there is no 
business or regulatory reason to do so.
EQT also does not maintain records of Scope 1 GHG equity basis emissions.
G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions (Scope 2)EQT does not maintain records of equity basis emissions, nor does it track indirect greenhouse gas 
emissions from outside the Company (Scope 3).
G4-EN17 Other Indirect greenhouse (GHG) emissions 
(Scope 3)EQT does not maintain records of equity basis emissions, nor does it track indirect greenhouse gas 
emissions from outside the Company (Scope 3).
G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission intensity Page 26
The intensity ratios only include Scope 1 emissions, as EQT does not monitor or report Scope 2 or Scope 
3 emissions. Gases included in the calculations are CO2, CH4, and N20. EQT does not use offsets in these 
calculations.
EQT is not subject to any regulations limiting emissions of GHGs on a country or regional basis, and there 
are no required industry regulations that apply.
Click here for Table of ContentsContent Index  65Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Page 26
EQT bases emissions on Stack Test Data, Manufacturer’s Data, and/or USEPA published emission factors.
G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 
(ODS)EQT does not produce, import, or export ozone depleting substances.
G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Page 26
Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste
G4-DMA PP 29-30
G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and 
destinationPage 30
G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 
methodPage 30
EQT currently tracks waste for landfill, routine operations, and unusual activities on a project-by-
project basis. Currently, EQT submits annual 26r Chemical Analysis of Residual Waste reports to 
the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental protection to satisfy regulatory waste reporting 
requirements. The operator solidifies fluids received before placing them in the landfill.
EQT does not have any oil sands/tar sands mining operations.
G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Page 31
G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, 
or treated waste deemed hazardous under 
the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, 
III, and IV, and the percentage of transported 
waste shipped internationallyZero...EQT did not transport, import, export, treat, or ship internationally any hazardous wastes as 
defined by the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII.
G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and 
biodiversity value of water bodies and 
related habitats significantly affected by the 
organization’s discharges of water and runoffNo water bodies or related habitats where significantly affected by EQT’s operations during 2015.
Material Aspect: Products and Services
G4-DMA Not Applicable
G4-EN27 Extent of impact of mitigation of 
environmental impacts of products and 
servicesNot Applicable…EQT produces and transports natural gas and related fossil fuels. The Company cannot 
monitor, track, or control the environmental impacts of third-party products and services derived from 
these fuels.
G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their 
packaging materials that are reclaimed by 
categoryNot Applicable…EQT produces and transports natural gas and related fossil fuels. The Company cannot 
monitor, track, or control the reclamation of third-party products and services derived from these fuels, 
nor can it track the reclamation of packaging materials for those products or services.
Material Aspect: Compliance
G4-DMA PP 23-25
G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and 
total number of non-monetary sanctions for 
non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulationsNine fines totaling $251,900
During 2015, EQT did not have any non-monetary sanctions, or cases brought through dispute resolution 
mechanisms.
Material Aspect: Transport
G4-DMA PP 23-25
G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of 
transporting products and other goods and 
materials for the organization’s operations, 
and transporting members of the workforcePage 33
Material Aspect: Overall
G4-DMA Not Applicable
G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures 
and investments by typeNot Applicable…EQT does not explicitly monitor or track the type or amount of environmental 
expenditures and investments
Click here for Table of Contents66Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment
G4-DMA Page 23
G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that 
were screened using environmental 
criteriaEQT’s suppliers operate primarily within the United States, so they are subject to the numerous federal, state, 
and local laws and regulations that govern environmental impacts. Safe and environmentally friendly operations 
are mandatory at EQT and the Company has numerous policies and processes in place to ensure supplier 
conformity with its safety, environmental, legal, and ethical conduct expectations.
G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential 
negative environmental impacts in 
the supply chain and actions takenNone…See response to G4-EN32
Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Grievance Mechanisms
G4-DMA Not Applicable
G4-EN34 Number of grievances about 
environmental impacts filed, 
addressed, and resolved through 
formal grievance mechanismsNone
Category: Social
Sub-Category: Labor Prices and Decent Work
Material Aspect: Employment
G4-DMA PP 45-49
G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new hires 
and employee turnover by age group, 
gender, and regionPage 46
G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees, 
by significant locations of operationsPage 49
G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates 
after parental leave, by genderPage 46
Material Aspect: Labor/Management Relations
G4-DMA Not Applicable
G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding 
operational changes, including 
whether these are specified in 
collective agreementsEQT does not have any employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 
EQT has not pre-determined (as a matter of policy) the minimum number of weeks of notice given in the event 
of significant operational changes. The length of the notice period is determined on a case-by-case basis 
considering several factors that include, but are not limited to, number of employees affected, type, or impact of 
operational change, timeframe for implementing change, etc.
Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety
G4-DMA PP 15-18
G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce 
represented in formal joint 
management-worker health and 
safety committees that help monitor 
and advise on occupational health 
and safety programsPage 17
EQT does not have formal, joint management-worker safety committees; however, within the Midstream business 
unit a similar worker-management process, the Field Safety Technician program, enables employees to take 
greater ownership of their own personal safety as well as demonstrate safety leadership to co-workers. The 
program also enables employees to identify and prevent situations that could cause harm to themselves or those 
around them.
G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, 
occupational diseases, lost days, and 
absenteeism, and total number of 
work-related fatalities, by region and  
by genderPage 17
G4-LA7 Workers in high incidence or high 
risk of diseases related to their 
occupationEQT established an industrial hygiene program to monitor employee exposure to potential hazards such as noise 
and chemicals that may exist in the workplace. EQT uses the results of this program to minimize employee 
exposure and to ensure regulatory compliance to established threshold limits.
Click here for Table of ContentsContent Index  67Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal 
agreements with trade unionsSee Response to G411
General Safety Training discussed on Page 15
Material Aspect: Training and Education
G4-DMA Page 48
G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, 
by gender, and by employee categoryEQT does not have a mechanism for accurately tracking the training that its employees completed 
during the reporting period.
G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong 
learning that support the continued employability 
if employees and assist them in managing career 
endingsPage 48
G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews, by 
gender and by employee categoryPage 47
Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
G4-DMA PP 10-11; PP 45-47
G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and 
breakdown of employees per employee category 
according to gender, age group, minority group 
membership, and other indicators of diversityPP 10-11 (Board Composition)
PP 45-47 (Employee Composition)
Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration For Women and Men
G4-DMA Not Available
G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 
to men by employee category, by significant 
locations of operationThis information is subject to specific confidentiality constraints. For confidentiality reasons, EQT 
does not report/disclose compensation-based ratios. EQT does not make compensation decisions 
using these types of ratios.
Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment For Labor Practices
G4-DMA Page 18
G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that are screened 
using labor practices criteriaEQT’s suppliers operate primarily within the United States, so they are subject to the numerous 
federal, state, and local laws and regulations that govern labor practices. Compliance with these 
laws and regulations is mandatory at EQT and the Company has numerous policies and processes in 
place to ensure supplier conformity with its safety, environmental, legal, social, and ethical conduct 
expectations.
G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts 
for labor practices in the supply chain and 
actions takenNone…See response to G4-LA14
Material Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms
G4-DMA Not Applicable
G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices 
filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 
grievance mechanismsNone
Sub-Category: Society
Material Aspect: Local Communities
G4-DMA PP 19-21; PP 35-41
G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local 
community engagement, impact assessments, 
and development programs100% of EQT’s operations - Headquarters, Production, and Midstream - participate in organization-
wide local community engagement.
EQT maintains an ongoing dialogue with stakeholders in local communities near its operations to 
determine impacts and development programs to mitigate those impacts as needed.
G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential 
negative impacts on local communitiesPP 35-41
Click here for Table of Contents68Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
Material Aspect: Anti-Corruption
G4-DMA Page 13
G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations 
assessed for risks related to corruption and the 
significant risks identifiedEQT assesses 100% of its operations - Headquarters, Production, and Midstream - for risks related 
to corruption. The Company’s Internal Audit function conducts the fraud risk assessment. The 2015 
assessment included 34 interviews with internal subject matter experts and covered 11 categories 
of fraud risk:
• Cyber fraud  • Theft of goods or services
• Third party/vendor fraud – contract fraud  • Financial reporting fraud
• Third party/vendor fraud – integrity and  • Misappropriation of assets 
governance risks  • Fraudulent acquisition of revenues or assets
• Third party/vendor procurement frauds  • Fraudulent avoidance of expenses
• Capital projects  • Fraudulent misconduct by senior management
EQT hired a law firm to conduct a compliance risk assessment. The law firm interviewed more than 
20 internal subject matter experts to assess EQT’s compliance initiatives and risk profile in light of 
expected compliance practices, including any corruption risks and mitigants in place to reduce the 
likelihood of non-compliance.
G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresPage 13
G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 
takenNone
Material Aspect: Public Policy
G4-DMA PP 41-43
G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country 
and recipient/beneficiaryPage 42
Material Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior
G4-DMA Page 13
G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and 
their outcomesNone
Material Aspect: Compliance
G4-DMA Page 13
G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total 
number of non-monetary sanctions for non-
compliance with laws and regulationsNone
Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment For Impacts on Society
G4-DMA Page 18
G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened 
using criteria for impacts on societyEQT’s suppliers operate primarily within the United States, so they are subject to the numerous 
federal, state, and local laws and regulations that govern societal impacts. Compliance with these 
laws and regulations is mandatory at EQT and the Company has numerous policies and processes 
in place to ensure supplier conformity with its social, safety, environmental, legal, and ethical 
conduct expectations.
G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts 
on society in the supply chain and actions takenNone…See response to G4-SO9
Material Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms For Impacts on Society
G4-DMA Not Applicable
G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society 
filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 
grievance mechanismsNone
Click here for Table of ContentsContent Index  69Disclosure 
NumberDescription Page Number (or Link)
Sub-Category: Product Responsibility
Material Aspect: Compliance
G4-DMA Page 13
G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-
compliance with laws and regulations concerning 
the provision and use of products and servicesNone
Oil and Gas Sector Supplement
Category: Economic
Material Aspect: Reserves
G4-DMA Page 52
G4-OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves 
and productionPage 52
A detailed description of how EQT determines reserves is provided on pages 110 and 111 of the 2015 
EQT Form 10-K, along with the engineer’s audit report filed with the 2015 EQT Form 10-K as Exhibit 
99.
Oil and Gas Sector Supplement
Category: Environmental
Material Aspect: Ecosystem Services Including Biodiversity
G4-DMA PP 31-32
G4-OG4 Number and percentage of significant operating 
sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed 
and monitoredEQT assesses and monitors all of its operations - Headquarters, Production, and Midstream - for 
biodiversity risks.
Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste
G4-DMA PP 29-30
G4-OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced 
waterPage 30
EQT does not permit the discharge of any produced water to surface water, so no strategies or 
criteria are necessary for disposal and treatment; no report standards for produced water quality are 
required; and EQT has no volumes of hydrocarbon discharged in produced water to report.
G4-OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon 100% of EQT’s Marcellus completions were flareless.
G4-OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) 
and strategies for treatment and disposalPage 30
Oil and Gas Sector Supplement
Category: Society
Material Aspect: Local Communities
G4-DMA PP 19-21; PP 35-41
G4-OG10 Number and description of significant disputes 
with local communities and indigenous peoplesPage 38
G4-OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned 
and sites that are in the process of being 
decommissionedNeither EQT Production nor EQT Midstream participates in offshore activities. 
EQT Production has approximately 14,400 active wells and approximately 850 shut-in wells.
EQT Midstream owns approximately 1,849 acres of land for compressor sites located in PA and 
WV. EQT did not decommission any of these sites was in 2015, nor do any sites have plans for 
decommissioning in the near future.
G4-OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement took 
place, the number of households resettled in each 
and how their livelihoods were affected in the 
processNone
G4-OG13 Number of process safety events, by industry 
activityNot Applicable…EQT does not monitor or track safety issues by Tier 1 or Tier II event categories.
Click here for Table of Contents7070EQT’S PARTICIPATION IN THE VALUE CHAIN
This report is printed on Neenah environmentally responsible papers.
Click here for Table of ContentsEQT Corporation
EQT Plaza
625 Liberty Avenue, Suite 1700
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
eqt.com